-- Vietnam’s GDP Growth Quickened This Quarter
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-29T02:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/vietnam-s-gdp-growth-quickened-this-quarter.html
Vietnam ’s economic growth
accelerated this quarter as rising domestic consumption and
exports limited the impact of higher  interest rates , a
government report showed today.  Gross domestic product  increased  6.1 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, the General Statistics Office said
in an e-mailed release today. The preliminary estimate compares
with a revised 6.07 percent growth rate for the three months
through September. For the  full year , Vietnam’s economy expanded
5.89 percent, down from the 6.78 percent rate for 2010.  Vietnam’s government has struggled this year to steady its
economy, devaluing the dong as the currency weakened on the
black market and raising  borrowing costs  to contain the fastest
 inflation  in  Asia . While Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung said
this month his administration has price gains under control, the
 International Monetary Fund  and the World Bank have said that
easing monetary policy too soon would risk economic instability.  “We expected fourth-quarter growth to rebound as the trade
deficit narrowed,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong-Kong based senior
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB, said before the data were
released. “We see a slowdown in 2012 due to the deteriorating
external environment and because insufficient depreciation of
the dong will undermine exports.”  Exports  rose 33.3 percent to $96.257 billion this year, the
General Statistics Office said yesterday. The  trade gap  narrowed
to $9.5 billion from $12.6 billion in 2010.  Income Gains  Economic growth averaging about 7 percent over the past
decade has helped Vietnam reach what the  World Bank  calls lower
middle-income status, with per-capita income having increased
more than ten-fold since the ruling Communist Party started
market-oriented reforms in 1986.  Fourth-quarter growth is “traditionally stronger” than
the rest of the year, with both production and consumption
increasing in part because of the Tet lunar new year holiday,
said Alan Pham, the Ho Chi Minh City-based chief economist at
VinaCapital Group. The Tet holiday begins in January next year.  Vietnamese “save up all year for Tet, or they dip into
savings to keep spending up and then replenish savings later
when their income improves,” Pham said. “On the production
side, many companies grit their teeth to borrow in the fourth
quarter, because Tet is when they make 20 to 30 percent of their
full-year profit.”  Lending Rates  Still, Vietnamese companies have struggled this year to
cope with commercial lending rates that have reached as high as
27 percent.  FPT Corp. (FPT) , the biggest publicly traded telecommunications
and software company in the country, said this month slower
growth will hurt profit this year.  HAGL Joint-Stock Co. (HAG) , the
second-biggest publicly traded property developer, reported a
slide in third-quarter profit as the company battles what
 Standard & Poor’s  described this month as high inflation and
interest rates that are hurting Vietnam’s property market.  The central bank’s refinancing rate is 15 percent, up from
9 percent at the beginning of the year, as officials tried to
fight an inflation rate that reached 23 percent in August.
Soaring prices contributed to a 28 percent drop this year in the
Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange’s  VN Index. (VNINDEX)   The rate increases and stock-market slump have put pressure
on the country’s banking industry, which Capital Economics Ltd.
described this month as undercapitalized and vulnerable.  Vietnam “also faces the challenge of timing its rate cuts
as inflation slows,” Kowalczyk said.  Industry and construction, which accounted for 40 percent
of the economy, expanded 5.53 percent in 2011, the statistics
office said today. Services, which made up 38 percent of GDP,
grew 6.99 percent. Agriculture, forestry and fisheries, which
were 22 percent of GDP, expanded 4 percent.  --Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City. With assistance from
Shamim Adam in  Singapore ,  Nicholas Heath  in Hanoi. Editors:
Brendan Murray, Stephanie Phang  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  