-- Walgreen Aims to Offset 50% Profit Drop From Express Scripts
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2011-12-29T21:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/walgreen-aims-to-offset-50-profit-drop-from-loss-of-express-scripts-sales.html
Walgreen Co. (WAG)  began cutting costs in
anticipation of losing as much as 75 percent of sales generated
from employee-benefits manager  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) , the result
of a six-month dispute over pharmacy reimbursement rates.  Reducing selling, general and administrative expenses may
make up about half of the gross profit lost from Express
Scripts, the Deerfield, Illinois-based retailer said today in a
regulatory  filing (WAG) . Most of the reductions, including cutting the
costs of goods sold, will occur in the second half of the year.  Walgreen reiterated that it doesn’t expect to renew its
contract with Express Scripts that expires Dec. 31. The
contract, which manages prescriptions for employers and
accounted for $5.3 billion of Walgreen revenue last year,
centers on reimbursement rates for 88 million prescriptions, or
10 percent of the drugstore chain’s pharmacy business.  Walgreen  rose (WAG)  0.5 percent to $33.43 at the close in  New
York . The shares have tumbled 23 percent since June 21, when the
company said negotiations with Express Scripts were
unsuccessful. Express Scripts, based in  St. Louis ,  gained (ESRX)  1.1
percent to $44.34.  Separately,  Supervalu Inc.’s (SVU)  Jewel-Osco supermarket chain
urged Walgreen customers with Express Scripts coverage to switch
prescriptions to its 173 pharmacies in Iowa, Indiana and
Illinois, according to a statement today. The Itasca, Illinois-
based retailer joins  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) , Rite Aid Corp. and Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. trying to grab Walgreen customers covered by
the Express Scripts contract.  Regulatory Approval  Express Scripts is awaiting regulatory approval for its
proposed $29.1 billion acquisition of prescription-drug benefit
manager  Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  If the deal is completed,
Walgreen may face “potential loss of business,” according to
today’s filing.  The revenue generated from Express Scripts represented
about 7.3 percent of Walgreen’s $72.2 billion in  sales (WAG)  in fiscal
2011. The retailer projected that in fiscal 2012 it may retain
62 million of the 88 million prescriptions it now fills for
 Express Scripts , Chief Financial Officer Wade Miquelon said on a
conference call with analysts Dec. 21.  Walgreen estimated it will fill about 29.5 million Express
Scripts prescriptions from Sept. 1 through Dec. 31. Those orders
will help Walgreen achieve 97 percent to 99 percent of last
year’s prescription volume in the fiscal year through August
2012, Miquelon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  