-- Wheat Falls on Speculation Algeria Still Snubs U.S. Crops; Soybeans Drop
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2011-12-29T13:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-29/wheat-falls-on-speculation-algeria-still-snubs-u-s-crops-soybeans-drop.html
Wheat, set for the biggest annual
drop since 2008, fell in Chicago on speculation  Algeria  again
shunned U.S. supplies in favor of alternative sources.  Algeria bought 250,000 to 300,000 metric tons of optional-
origin wheat, Paris-based farm adviser Agritel said on its
website today, without saying from where the information came.
The country is the second-biggest African importer of the grain
after Egypt.  “None of that is likely to come from the U.S.,” said  Dave
Norris , an independent grain broker in Harrogate, England. “The
bottom line is no matter what the world price is, the Black
Sea will undercut it to get the business into these North
African homes.”  Wheat for March delivery slid 0.5 percent to $6.48 a bushel
by 1:15 p.m.  London  time on the  Chicago  Board of Trade. Prices
climbed for eight straight sessions before today, the longest
rally since October 2007. The grain is down 18 percent this
year.  Argentina may supply a “good part” of the Algerian
purchase, and European origins might be included, Agritel said.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s weekly export sales report
is scheduled for release tomorrow after a delay caused by the
Christmas holiday. The Argentine wheat harvest is the biggest in
 Latin America .  Milling wheat for March delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris gained 0.9 percent to 195 euros ($251) a ton.  Corn, Soybeans  Corn for March delivery rose 0.1 percent to $6.43 a bushel
in Chicago, on course for a ninth increase in a row. The grain
is up 2.2 percent this year. Hot, dry weather in parts of Brazil
and Argentina is set to curb crop prospects, according to
forecaster Telvent DTN Inc. Argentina is the second-biggest
global corn exporter after the U.S.  The Brazilian states of Mato Grosso do Sul, Parana and  Rio
Grande  do Sul will be dry through tomorrow with temperatures
reaching 95 degrees Fahrenheit, Telvent DTN meteorologist Joel
Burgio said in a report yesterday. Temperatures in Argentina
that topped 102 degrees Fahrenheit will be higher than normal,
he said.  Soybeans for March delivery declined 0.8 percent to
$11.9825 a bushel. The oilseed has dropped 15 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in  Melbourne  at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 