-- ‘First Do No Harm’ Should Be Volcker Rule Principle: Tim Ryan
-- B y   T i m   R y a n
-- 2012-02-29T00:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/-first-do-no-harm-should-be-volcker-rule-principle-tim-ryan.html
The five federal regulators
responsible for implementing the Volcker rule have been
inundated with  comment  letters whose resounding message is that
the rule, as  proposed , simply won’t work.  At its heart, the proposal is based on the presumption that
any possible risk-taking activity conducted by a financial
institution in service to clients is prohibited proprietary
trading until the institution can prove otherwise. That is
backward reasoning. It also conflicts with Congress’s explicit
 exemption  for market making by banks and their affiliates.  Reduced financial-market liquidity is one of the  securities
industry’s  biggest concerns. When banks provide consistent and
ample liquidity (the ability to buy or sell a security at a
reasonable price in a timely fashion), they strengthen financial
markets and benefit investors and issuers who rely on capital
and credit. Without it, businesses can’t grow and create
jobs. Since the Volcker rule, adopted by Congress in the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act, will apply to the vast majority of institutions
that regularly provide liquidity to the markets, it is crucial
that we not inadvertently curtail such activity. But that’s what
the rule, as currently proposed, would do.  Market makers provide immediacy by selling assets to
investors who wish to buy them, and by buying assets from
investors who wish to sell when there isn’t a willing investor
on the other side of the trade. The proposed regulation’s overly
narrow definition of permitted market-making activity, along
with its compliance requirements, would discourage market makers
from playing that important role.  Thinner Markets  The bigger or riskier trades requested by investors would
often be shunned by market makers, out of fear that they will be
violating the Volcker rule, leading to thinner markets and more
price volatility.  Thinner markets are less liquid, which means transactions
are more expensive to conduct, and less capital is available. A
study by management consulting firm  Oliver Wyman  concludes that
the current proposal may result in one-time costs of $90 billion
to $315 billion for corporate-bond investors. Additionally,
corporate-debt issuers might incur $12 billion to $43 billion in
increased borrowing costs.  Paul Volcker , the former Federal Reserve chairman after
whom the rule is named, asserts in a recent essay to federal
regulators that there is too much liquidity in the markets,
which inflates asset values. This isn’t the case; the best
evidence can be seen in recent comments by foreign governments
and central banks.  Japan ,  Canada  and the U.K., along with the
European Commission, have expressed concerns that the rule may
hurt the ability of financial institutions to make markets for
their sovereign bonds.  Yet Volcker is dismissive of these concerns. Having deep
and liquid markets for sovereign bonds is essential to any
country. Given the current state of many European nations’
finances, impeding market making in sovereign bonds will
ultimately achieve what Volcker’s idea sought to prevent:
systemic risk. There has to be a better way.  In submissions to federal regulators, the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association outlined a number of
recommendations to improve the proposal. The rule, for example,
should explicitly permit market making that is customer-focused,
by which we mean trades that meet or anticipate customer demand.
Firms should also be allowed to develop quantitative metrics --
which regulators would oversee -- that would raise red flags if
anything went amiss.  Risk Measurements  These metrics could include position limits and other
measurements of risk. Trading units should be presumed to be
engaging in bona fide market making as long as the metrics are
in appropriate ranges for the specific asset class.  Additionally, the rule should not analyze market making on
a transaction-by-transaction basis. The proposal should instead
focus on allowing financial intermediation -- standing between
buyers and sellers, which is what market makers do -- permitted
by the statute.  In the end, what must truly be changed is the underlying
assumption that any activity conducted by a financial
institution to make markets is considered prohibited proprietary
trading. As noted above, market making is an important function
for capital formation, economic growth and  job creation . Traders
will not perform such essential functions if they fear that
regulators, after the fact, could deem activities as banned
proprietary trading.  As regulators take in thousands of pages of comments, they
should re-propose this rule and do so with the assumption that
customer-facing market-making activities are permissible until
proven otherwise.  ( Tim Ryan  is the president and chief executive officer of
the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Tim Ryan at  tim.ryan@sifma.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  