-- H.K.’s Tsang to Address Integrity Doubts
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n   a n d   S a n d i   L i u
-- 2012-02-29T03:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/h-k-s-tsang-to-address-integrity-doubts.html
Hong Kong Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  said he will address doubts about his travel and
retirement plans when he meets lawmakers tomorrow, as public
scrutiny of officials in the Chinese city grows.  “After 45 years of public service, I never expected that I
would have to address questions about my integrity,” Tsang
wrote in a letter to all members of the civil service. “I have
learned a hard lesson, but I remain hopeful that something
constructive will come out of it.”  Tsang, whose term ends June 30, has been criticized by
lawmakers for accepting trips to Macau and Phuket,  Thailand , on
yachts and jets owned by businessmen. Lawmaker Paul Tse Wai-chun
is seeking support to submit a motion to charge the chief
executive with dereliction of duty for failing to declare a plan
to rent a penthouse in Shenzhen,  China .  “A lot of my colleagues are holding their fire pending the
chief executive’s appearance tomorrow to answer questions from
us,” Tse said by phone today. “Hopefully after the session,
we’ll be able to collect more signatures.”  Tsang, who announced the formation of an independent
committee to review rules governing civil servants, has said he
paid for his trips.  Hong Kong’s anti-corruption body will investigate Tsang’s
conduct after receiving complaints from political parties, the
 South China Morning Post  reported today, citing Avery Ng Man-
yuen, the vice-chairman of the League of  Social Democrats .  Corruption Probe  “We will not comment on individual cases,” Alan Tse, a
spokesman for the  Independent Commission Against Corruption  said
today. “It is the ICAC’s statutory duty to investigate all
pursuable corruption reports.”  Public scrutiny of government officials increased after
 Henry Tang , the front-runner to replace Tsang, was embroiled in
a scandal in the election campaign. Tang, the city’s former No.
2 official, faces calls to quit the race after admitting
knowledge of a basement built illegally by his wife.  Tsang paid HK$500 ($65) for a ride on a yacht, Charles Ho,
chairman of  Sing Tao News Corp. (1105) , told reporters on Feb. 27.  “It’s like giving a lift to someone,” Ho said. “What’s
wrong with that?”  Tse said he has the support of two lawmakers to move his
motion against the chief executive. Lawmaker Regina Ip said
today she withdrew her support after hearing of the ICAC probe.  Tsang is renting a penthouse at a property built by a
company controlled by Wong Cho-bau, the Standard reported today.
Wong is also an investor in Digital Broadcasting Corp., which
was recently granted a broadcasting license in  Hong Kong , the
newspaper said.  At least 15 lawmakers are needed to submit a motion to
charge the chief executive with breach of law or dereliction of
duty, according to the city’s laws.  To contact the reporters on this story:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net 
Sandi Liu in Hong Kong at 
 sliu60@bloomberg.net  