-- Abbott to Buy Galapagos Arthritis Drug Rights for as Much as $1.35 Billion
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-02-29T21:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/abbott-to-pay-galapagos-150-million-up-front-for-arthritis-drug-rights.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  agreed to pay
 Galapagos NV (GLPG)  as much as $1.35 billion for rights to an
experimental rheumatoid arthritis drug that would compete with a
Pfizer Inc. pill.  Abbott will pay Mechelen, Belgium-based Galapagos $150
million upfront for rights to the drug, GLPG0634, the companies
said in a statement today. If mid-stage clinical trials are
successful,  Abbott Park , Illinois-based Abbott will pay another
$200 million to license the treatment, they said. Galapagos is
eligible for additional payments totaling $1 billion if
development, regulatory and sales goals are met.  The deal gives Abbott, whose Humira is the world’s top-
selling rheumatoid arthritis treatment, access to a drug that
may be the best in a “new wave” of pills against a disease
that’s now treated with injections, said Andre Hoekema, head of
Galapagos’s corporate development. Humira, which earned Abbott
$7.9 billion last year, may face competition this year if
Pfizer’s pill, tofacitinib, wins U.S. regulatory approval.  “Galapagos is not No. 1, but we feel we have a very good
chance to be the best-in-class,” Hoekema said on a conference
call with reporters today.  Abbott fell less than a percent to $56.61 at 4 p.m. New
York time.  Galapagos  surged  21 percent to 13.09 euros in Brussels, its
highest closing price since October 2010. The stock has gained
26 percent this year, valuing the company at 345.9 million euros
($462.3 million).  Injections Dominate  Galapagos’s compound may help Abbott retain its leading
position in rheumatoid arthritis, said  Barbara Ryan , an analyst
with Deutsche Bank.  “Abbott’s efforts in developing follow-on therapies that
would allow it to leverage and extend its dominant position in
autoimmune diseases have been lacking to date, and concerns
about Humira’s outlook have weighed on the stock’s valuation,”
Ryan said in a note to clients today. “The acquisition of
GLPG0634 could potentially significantly improve the long term
outlook for Abbott’s key pharma franchise.”  About  1.3 million  people in the U.S. have rheumatoid
arthritis, a chronic disease in which the immune system
mistakenly attacks healthy tissue, causing inflammation in and
around joints. Treatments suppress the immune system and can
increase vulnerability to infection.  Market Domination  The market for drugs against the disease is dominated by
injections such as Humira,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Remicade and
 Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s Enbrel, which New York-based Pfizer shares. These
block a protein called tumor necrosis factor, or TNF, that’s
overproduced by patients with rheumatoid arthritis.  GLPG0634 and tofacitinib belong to a new class of drugs
called JAK inhibitors that block an enzyme called Janus kinase.
Kinases play a role in the signaling mechanism used by a number
of proteins known as cytokines that are involved in autoimmune
diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis. Unlike Pfizer’s drug,
GLPG0634 only targets one of the four JAK proteins, JAK1,
avoiding side effects such as anemia and raised cholesterol,
Hoekema said.  ‘Must-Have’ Drug  JAK inhibitors “are very much en vogue -- a ‘must-have’
pipeline accessory” for drugmakers including Pfizer,  Eli Lilly
& Co. (LLY) ,  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and now Abbott, said Shawn Manning, an
analyst at Singer Capital Markets in  London . “Given the value
of the deal, we would hypothesize that the Belgian company
benefited from a competitive bidding process,” Manning wrote in
a note to clients today.  Galapagos held discussions with 12 potential partners for
the drug, Chief Executive Officer Onno van de Stolpe said on a
conference call today. By the end of the process, there were
“multiple” bidders, Hoekema said. Galapagos chose Abbott
because “they are innovative, they’re a dominant player, and
they were willing to pay premium terms,” van de Stolpe said.  In a trial of GLPG0634 in 24 patients, the drug reduced
symptoms of the disease by 20 percent in 83 percent of patients
after four weeks, compared with 33 percent of those who got a
placebo, Galapagos said in November. Tofacitinib reduced
symptoms by 20 percent in as much as 53 percent of patients
after six months, in a trial involving 717 patients, Pfizer said
the same month.  The data shows that it will compete well with other JAK
inhibitors, said Adelle Infante, a spokeswoman for Abbott.
“Early data for GLPG0634 suggests better efficacy and safety
profile than other JAK inhibitors currently in development,”
Infante said in an e-mail.  Data by 2014  Galapagos said it plans to begin a second mid-stage trial
shortly, and will deliver a package of data to Abbott in 2014.  If Abbott licenses the drug at that juncture, the U.S.
company will be responsible for the third and final stage of
clinical trials typically needed for regulatory approval,
according to the statement. Abbott will pay Galapagos double-
digit royalties on sales if the drug comes to market.  Galapagos plans to use the proceeds to fund development of
other experimental medicines, the company said.  Van de Stolpe isn’t interested in selling the company, he
said on the conference call. “The chance that somebody will
launch a bid on the company is reduced, which is good news
because we would like to keep the company independent,” he
said.  “In the last couple of years, on a licensing deal we
haven’t seen any bigger numbers,” Van de Stolpe said of the
deal size. The agreement “will enable us to start building an
infrastructure that we need for further pipeline molecules that
we’re driving towards the market.”  Galapagos will give an earnings forecast when it reports
results on March 2, Van de Stolpe said. The Abbott payment
“clearly will have an impact,” he said.  It’s too early to tell what peak sales of the drug may be,
said Van de Stolpe. Analysts predict  Pfizer’s (PFE)  product,
tofacitinib, will reach $2 billion to $5 billion peak sales,
“and clearly we are targeting the same market,” he said.  Abbott said Oct. 19 that it will split this year, with one
company selling generic drugs and medical devices and the other
prescription medicines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  