-- Abound Solar Shutters Plant, Raising Specter of Solyndra Failure
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-02-29T16:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/abound-solar-shutters-plant-raising-specter-of-solyndra-failure.html
Abound Solar Inc., which received a
$400 million U.S. loan guarantee to build two factories, shut
down production and fired 180 people after panel prices  fell  by
half last year.  Abound stopped making its first-generation solar panels and
will refit its manufacturing lines to produce more efficient
products, the Loveland, Colorado-based company said yesterday in
a  statement .  The move is a response to the same forces that drove
Solyndra LLC into bankruptcy after it received a $535 million
loan guarantee from the same U.S. Energy Department program,
said  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates
Inc. in Houston.  “Abound is facing the same headwinds -- cheap crystalline
silicon from  China  -- that made Solyndra a political football,”
Molchanov said today in an interview. “I think they made the
right decision to conserve cash and focus on improving
efficiency so they can ramp up when they’re ready.”  The company expects to resume full production by year-end
with cadmium-telluride panels that will be able to convert 12.5
percent to 13 percent of the energy in sunlight into
electricity. Its current products have conversion efficiency
rates of 10.5 percent.  “By focusing our resources to accelerate scale-up of our
next generation, high-efficiency technology, we will sustainably
lower total system costs for our customers,” Abound Chief
Executive Officer Craig Witsoe said in the statement.  Solyndra Auction  Abound has drawn $70 million of the $400 million guarantee
and has one plant, in  Colorado . The closing comes a week after a
bankruptcy auction of Solyndra generated sales of $3.81 million,
or less than 1 percent of the federal financing.  “We continue to believe that supporting innovative
companies like this is important to ensuring our nation has the
ability to compete for the clean energy jobs of tomorrow,”
 Damien LaVera , an Energy Department spokesman, said in an e-mail
today.  The Energy Department’s loan guarantee program was
criticized after  Solyndra (SOLY)  filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 6. The
Fremont, California-based solar company received the
department’s first guarantee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 