-- Abu Dhabi Airport Rides Etihad Growth to Chase Dubai
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2012-02-29T07:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/abu-dhabi-airport-rides-etihad-growth-to-chase-dubai-correct-.html
(Corrects sixth paragraph of story published Feb. 23 to
remove reference to number of bidders remaining in tender.)  Abu Dhabi ’s international airport
aims to boost passenger numbers as much as 12 percent to almost
14 million this year as  Etihad Airways  adds flights, stretching
capacity at a hub that’s already close to full.  The third-biggest Arab carrier will also occupy a new
terminal that should raise capacity to 40 million passengers
from 2017, Abu Dhabi Airports Co. Chief Executive Officer James Bennett said today in an interview, with the main construction
contract to be awarded early next quarter.  Abu Dhabi plans to spend $500 billion on industry, tourism
and culture through 2030 to reduce its reliance on oil. While
Etihad is among the fastest-growing carriers, ordering 100 jets
at the 2008 Farnborough Air Show, the sheikdom’s airport faces a
contest for long-haul transfer travelers with nearby Dubai,
which is extending its hub’s capacity to 90 million by 2018.  “I believe there will be adequate demand,” Bennett said.
“We’re serving new markets such as  Asia ,  China  and  Africa  and
the flow of commerce in between. Those are the fastest-growing
economies in the world and this will continue for a while.”  Abu Dhabi’s main airport boosted passenger numbers 14
percent in 2011 to 12.4 million. While the hub derives about 50
percent of its footfall from people changing planes on inter-
continental trips, more are coming for tourist and business
visits after completion of recent developments, the CEO said.  Bid Shortlist  The company received tenders for construction of the new
“Midfield” terminal from six groups including Hyundai
Engineering & Construction Co.,  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) ,  Hochtief
AG (HOT)  with Al Habtoor, Bechtel Group Inc. and Al Jaber Group,  TAV
Havalimanlari Holding AS (TAVHL)  and Samsung.  Etihad will occupy the building alongside carriers with
which it has partnerships, plus some others, Bennett said,
adding that a “strategic review” is underway into how to
utilize vacated facilities including the existing Terminal 3.  Etihad vies for transfer traffic with Gulf rivals Emirates,
based in Dubai and the world’s largest carrier by international
traffic, and  Qatar Airways . All three are seeking to attract
long-haul passengers away from traditional hubs in locations
such as London, Paris and  Frankfurt .  Dubai Airports Co. plans to invest $7.8 billion to boost
airport capacity from 60 million a year at its existing hub --
which attracted 51 million people in 2011, or 85 percent of the
limit. The emirate is also building up a new base, Al Maktoum
International, which though currently limited to freight flights
may have a passenger capacity of 160 million in coming decades.  Abu Dhabi airport’s dedicated cargo building has “probably
already reached capacity” and will be expanded in a new
location if demand continues to increase, Bennett said. Cargo
activity was up 10 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at   twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  