-- LaHood to Meet With Cargo Airlines on U.S. Pilot Rule
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n ,   L i s a   C a r u s o   a n d   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-02-29T17:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/lahood-to-meet-with-cargo-airlines-on-u-s-pilot-rule.html
U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said he’ll meet with officials of  United Parcel Service
Inc. (UPS)  and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  to urge the two cargo airlines to adopt
pilot-fatigue rules imposed on passenger carriers.  Following up on a promise he made in December, after the
U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  announced the new work-hour
restrictions wouldn’t apply to cargo carriers, LaHood said today
he’ll try to use the power of persuasion. The meeting will occur
tomorrow, Justin Nisly, a spokesman for the department, said in
an e-mail.  “I hope they’ll voluntarily adopt our guidelines,” LaHood
said in an interview at a conference in Washington. “We’re
going to have a conversation. This is a good rule and I’m going
to ask them to consider it.”  The FAA, in a reversal from what it had proposed in 2010,
said Dec. 21 that it would exempt cargo airlines from pilot work
 rules  designed to reduce fatigue.  LaHood said at the time that he would invite chief
executive officers of cargo carriers to his office to discuss
the rule and its safety benefits.  Cargo carriers were exempted in the final rule because the
costs of applying the rules to them were too high compared with
the estimated safety benefit of preventing crashes and deaths,
LaHood said then.  Since cargo planes don’t carry passengers, there would be
fewer deaths prevented than on passenger carriers and therefore
less benefit under government formulas.  Fatigue Science  Passenger-airline pilots will work fewer hours a day and
get longer guaranteed rest periods under the new rule, the first
revision of fatigue standards since 1985. They take effect in
December 2013.  The rule attempts to apply several decades of research into
human fatigue. It will lower the number of hours pilots may work
in a 24-hour period when they fly late at night, cross numerous
time zones or make multiple landings and takeoffs.  Under existing rules, which will still apply to cargo
airlines, pilots may work as many as 16 hours during a 24-hour
period regardless of when their shifts begin.  The rest period for cargo pilots will still be as few as
eight hours. Passenger pilots will get at least 10 hours off
between shifts under the new rules.  ‘Most Wanted’ Enhancements  The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board, which
investigates airline and other transportation accidents, lists
fatigue as one of its  “Most Wanted”  safety enhancements.  The UPS position is that the rule shouldn’t be applied to
cargo flights because the company operates so differently from
passenger carriers, Mike Mangeot, a company spokesman, said in
an e-mailed statement today.  While UPS has more overnight routes than passenger
carriers, its pilots fly fewer hours per month and it has built
rest facilities at some hubs in which pilots can nap between
flights, he said.  “We do plan to sit down with Secretary LaHood and see what
he has to say,” Mangeot said. “We are certainly open to
options that will improve aviation safety and we’re certainly
open to working with the FAA to enhance best practices in crew
rest.”  The Independent Pilots Association, which represents UPS’s
2,600 pilots, filed suit Dec. 22 in an attempt to overturn the
cargo exemption.  Request Rejected  The union, in a Jan. 19 letter it released by e-mail today,
asked the Atlanta-based company to agree to operate under the
new rules. The company turned down the request, union President
Robert Travis said in a letter to LaHood today.  “I applaud your initiative in seeking voluntary compliance
from the all-cargo industry,” Travis said. “We agree that
legitimate reasons do not exist for these carriers to operate
outside of the new science-based pilot duty and rest rules.”  Maury Donahue, a FedEx spokeswoman, didn’t have an
immediate comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Levin in  Washington  at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  