-- Thai Central Bank Says It Can Hold Interest Rate as Inflation Risks Rise
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-02-29T10:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/thai-central-bank-says-it-can-hold-interest-rate-as-inflation-risks-rise.html
Thailand  can maintain its
“accommodative”  benchmark interest rate  as inflation risks
increase while threats to economic growth remain, Bank of
Thailand Deputy Governor Suchada Kirakul said.  “It’s still accommodative but it doesn’t indicate that the
MPC will have to lower more or to raise it very soon,” Suchada,
who is a member of the seven-person monetary policy committee at
the central bank, said in an interview today at her office in
Bangkok. “If it’s accommodative, it can be maintained at the
same level for a certain period.”  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest economy has “bottomed
out” and is on a path to recovery, the  finance ministry  said
this week, as the decline in manufacturing eased after floods
swamped thousands of factories and killed more than 700 people
in 2011. Growth has been hampered by Europe’s debt crisis, which
hurt demand for Asian exports from  Singapore  to  Taiwan ,
prompting Thailand to cut rates in the past two meetings.  “They could possibly wait and not do anything else for
now” given recent positive economic data, said  Gundy Cahyadi ,
an economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in Singapore.
Still, “one more 25 basis-point cut shouldn’t be ruled out
going forward,” Cahyadi said.  Resisted Easing  Before the floods hurt growth, the central bank had
resisted easing policy even as Prime Minister Yingluck
Shinawatra’s administration urged the monetary authority to cut
borrowing costs.  Concern the government would undermine the Bank of
Thailand’s independence resurfaced with a proposal late last
year to transfer the finance ministry’s more than $30 billion of
legacy debt from bank bailouts to the  central bank . The plan was
later scrapped, and instead Thailand will tap commercial bank
fees and central bank profits for the debt payments while
keeping the principal on the finance ministry’s books.  Suchada said today the central bank has independence in its
operations and each monetary policy member has their own view.
She added that the government “did listen” to Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul when he explained the central bank’s limitations
with regards to the proposal to shift responsibility for the
debt, and the current plan is “acceptable” as it doesn’t
involve foreign reserves or prompt the central bank to print
money.  Baht Climbs  One-year onshore  interest-rate  swaps, the fixed cost needed
to receive a floating payment, has risen six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 2.98 percent since the central bank’s
last meeting on Jan. 25. The three-year government bond yield
has climbed 24 basis points to 3.24 percent during the period.  The baht has strengthened more than 4 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  this year, the third-best performance among  Asia ’s
currencies. The currency advanced 1.3 percent last week, the
most since the period ended Dec. 2. The benchmark SET Index of
stocks has risen 13 percent this year.  The central bank may raise its 2012 economic growth
forecast to 6 percent, from an earlier prediction of 4.9 percent,
after a slower-than-expected expansion last year, Suchada said.
Policy makers will discuss the new target at a meeting scheduled
for March 21, she said.  The monetary authority will also ease rules on fund inflows
and outflows later this year, she said. The central bank is
conducting a number of hearings on its capital liberalization
plan, including allowing non-residents to lend more baht to
local financial institutions and encouraging more Thai direct
investment and portfolio investment overseas, the deputy
governor said.  Easing Rules  The first phase of the plan should be implemented within
this year, and in a later phase, the bank will ease restrictions
on the flow of capital to help Thailand better benefit from the
linkages brought about by a Southeast Asian economic community
initiative, she said.  The central bank cut the one-day bond repurchase rate by a
quarter of a percentage point to 3 percent in its last meeting
on Jan. 25, judging that threats to growth were greater than the
risk of inflation.  Gross domestic product shrank 9 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, the biggest decline since 1998,
during the Asian financial crisis. Last year’s floods, the worst
in almost 70 years, disrupted output by manufacturers from
Western Digital Corp. to Honda Motor Co. and slowed annual
growth to 0.1 percent in 2011.  Manufacturing Recovers  Among signs of improvement,  industrial output  fell the
least in four months in January as companies resumed operations
and supply-chain disruptions eased after the deluge, a report
showed this week. Exports rose 1.2 percent from a year earlier,
the finance ministry said, citing preliminary data from the
Customs Department.  Rising oil prices have revived risks to  inflation , which
slowed to a 10-month low of 3.38 percent in January.  “Risks to inflation have been rising because of tension in
the  Middle East ,” Suchada said. “It’s still within our
expectation. Risks on growth may improve a little bit from the
last MPC meeting, but we are not confident yet until  Europe  has
a clear solution.”  The baht strengthened 0.3 percent to 30.27 per dollar as of
4:50 p.m. in Bangkok and touched 30.21 earlier, the strongest
since September, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bank of Thailand will let the market decide the
exchange-rate, and step in when needed, Suchada said.  “Sometimes when there is excessive volatility, we could
step in,” she said, adding the bank intervened “a little bit”
last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  