-- AIG Progress Reflects a ‘Certain Stubbornness,’ Benmosche Tells Investors
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-02-29T15:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/aig-progress-reflects-a-certain-stubbornness-benmosche-tells-investors.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer majority owned by the U.S. government, has benefited
from “a certain stubbornness” as it repaid bailout funds,
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  said.  “We are here because we just don’t give up,” Benmosche,
67, said today in a  letter  to shareholders posted on  New York- 
based AIG’s website.  Benmosche halted the pace of asset sales when he took over
in 2009, saying the company needed time to find the best prices,
and rebuffed the suggestion from former Chairman  Harvey Golub 
that AIG would be worth more if it split the life insurance and
property-casualty divisions. The CEO worked to retain employees
and clients as the insurer recovered from mortgage-related
losses that forced the company to take a 2008 bailout that
swelled to $182.3 billion.  “Less than three short years ago, AIG leadership was
steering this great company to its breakup,” Chairman  Steve Miller  said today in a separate  letter . “Then Bob came along
with an outsider’s fresh perspective.”  The insurer has repaid a Federal Reserve credit line and
surged 25 percent this year in New York. AIG advanced 13 cents
to $29.09 at 10:29 a.m. The government, which lowered its stake
to 77 percent last year in a public offering, needs an average
price of at least $28.72 a share to recoup its investment.  After-tax operating income at AIG was $1.56 billion in the
three months ended Dec. 31, compared with a loss of $2.21
billion a year earlier, the insurer said last week. Benmosche is
relying on profit from the Chartis global property-casualty
insurer and SunAmerica U.S. life unit as he seeks private
investors to replace government funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  