-- AIJ’s Madoff-Like Returns Post-Lehman Shock Raised Red Flags for Investors
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2012-02-29T10:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/aij-s-madoff-like-returns-post-lehman-shock-raised-red-flags-for-investors.html
Tetsuo Ochi, searching for asset
managers for his $6 billion fund of  hedge funds , sought a
meeting in early 2009 with executives from  AIJ Investment
Advisors Co. , a firm that seemed to be faring well amid the
market turmoil that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  “We requested to do due diligence through an investor who
had put money with AIJ,” said Ochi, chief executive officer of
MCP Asset Management Co. in  Hong Kong , noting that  Bernard Madoff , who had refused to meet with clients, had admitted a few
months earlier to running a multibillion-dollar Ponzi scheme.
“But we were turned down as they told the investor they don’t
need clients who want to do due diligence on them. That was
enough for a fund not to invest in them.”  Like Madoff in  New York , Tokyo-based AIJ told prospective
investors it could provide stable gains regardless of market
moves, and it targeted Japanese pensions looking for higher
returns to fund their increasing retirement benefits. The firm
was suspended on Feb. 24 by Japan’s financial regulator after it
couldn’t account for all of the 185.3 billion yen ($2.3 billion)
it managed for clients as of March 2011, sparking the biggest
investigation in the history of the nation’s fund industry.  Not Accused  Neither AIJ, nor its top executive, former  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604)  manager Kazuhiko Asakawa has been accused of wrongdoing
following the firm’s suspension by the Financial Services Agency.
Phone calls to AIJ’s main office were answered by an automatic
recording which didn’t allow messages to be recorded.  AIJ made money even as stocks slumped following the March
11 earthquake in  Japan , said Makoto Kikuchi, chief executive
officer at Myojo Asset Management Japan Co., a Tokyo-based hedge
fund advisory firm. He also noted that the increase in assets at
AIJ’s funds after the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September
2008 was unusual. In 2008, hedge funds had their worst annual
performance, with returns falling an average of more than 18
percent and industry assets declining 40 percent to $1.1
trillion.  “When we met with AIJ a few years ago, there was already
circumstantial evidence that they were suspect,” said Taro Ogai,
the head of investment consulting at Towers Watson & Co. in
 Tokyo . “We have been warning our clients for more than year how
we were concerned about AIJ.”  Red Flags  Towers Watson, which advises pensions on investments, did
calculations using AIJ’s returns and assets under management
that indicated the funds’ positions were too big for the
derivative markets that the firm claimed it was trading in, Ogai
said. The firm declined to say whether it contacted regulators.  “If that’s the case, AIJ should have been much more
popular in the market,” he said.  Ogai said he was concerned that AIJ’s returns were very
high, while disclosing little about its strategy. That one of
AIJ’s executives, Shimpei Matsuki, had been arrested was also a
red flag.  Matsuki, chief investment officer at AIJ, was one of three
ex-Nomura executives to receive suspended sentences in 1999 for
paying off a corporate extortionist who threatened to disrupt
the brokerage’s 1995 shareholder meeting.  Suspension, Probe  The FSA ordered AIJ to stop business for a month as the
regulator investigates how it managed money. AIJ had 122
contracts with domestic corporate pensions and one with a
foreign investor as of March 2011, according to filings with
 Japan Securities Investment Advisers Association .  Any action against AIJ depends on the outcome of findings
by the Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission, the
financial watchdog under the FSA, Financial Services Minister
 Shozaburo Jimi  said yesterday.  Japan today began its biggest investigation of asset
management firms following the suspension of AIJ, in a move that
may lead to tighter oversight of pension money investment. A
total of 265 asset managers nationwide will be required to
submit status reports to the financial watchdog by March 14, the
FSA said in a statement in Tokyo today. The reports must contain
details of a firm’s operations, contracts and their amounts, and
any past complaints from customers.  The ruling party will form a working team under its
financial committee as soon as tomorrow to discuss changes to
rules governing investment managers for pension money, Tsutomu Okubo, a lawmaker who leads the panel, said in an interview in
Tokyo today. Okubo, 50, expects a bill to amend the Financial
Instruments and Exchange Law will win Cabinet approval as early
as mid-March and then be sent to the Diet.  ‘Natural to Suspect’  “Towers Watson cannot agree to a possible move by FSA to
tighten rules and oversight on asset management firms because of
this,” the firm said in an e-mailed statement today. “If you
had an understanding of what it means to invest, it was natural
for anyone to be suspicious” about AIJ.  Assets under management at AIJ stood at 126.2 billion yen
with 89 clients as of March 2008, before the collapse of  Lehman
Brothers , according to the securities association. Following the
credit crisis, the number of clients grew to 125 with 177
billion yen as of March 2009.  Myojo’s Kikuchi heard about AIJ six months ago as a fund
with “unusually good performances.”  “It was weird that this fund that was making money by
selling options would not have any losses after the Great
Eastern earthquake,” Kikuchi said. “Usually, funds that trade
options would get hit with the kind of volatility we saw back
after the temblor.”  Nikkei 225 Options  The  Nikkei Stock Average Volatility Index (VNKY) , a gauge of
Japanese  option prices , almost tripled in the two business days
following the March earthquake and tsunami that led to the worst
nuclear crisis since Chernobyl in 1986, while the Nikkei 225
fell the most since 1987.  Alternative investment managers that eschew traditional
investments such as stocks, bonds and cash have come under
scrutiny in the past four years, since the collapse of hedge
funds run by Bear Stearns Cos. in 2007. Madoff was arrested in
2008 for operating the largest  Ponzi scheme  in U.S. history and
hedge fund Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam was found
guilty in May on insider-trading charges.  AIJ’s AIM Millennium fund returned 241 percent since it
started in May 2002 by mainly trading Nikkei 225 options,
according to a four-page October 2011 newsletter in Japanese
obtained by Bloomberg News. The return compared with a 22
percent drop by the benchmark  Topix Index (TPX) , according to the
newsletter.  Asakawa’s Pitch  The Millennium fund mainly invested in Nikkei 225, using an
index that AIJ created to gauge whether markets were overbought
or underbought, according to presentation materials provided to
a pension fund that were obtained by Bloomberg News. The undated
document didn’t name the pension fund.  About two years ago, Asakawa came to visit a Japanese
 pension plan  to sell AIJ’s funds that invested in Nikkei 225
options that showed positive returns even after Lehman Brothers,
said the pension’s fund manager, who asked not to be identified
because the meeting was confidential.  The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average (NKY)  tumbled more than 40 percent after Lehman Brothers
collapsed in September 2008 to a low in March 2009.  In the middle of the meeting, Asakawa would excuse himself
to give buy and sell orders for the fund, according to the
manager, who said he became suspicious because it’s not a common
practice for a top executive to trade his fund away from his
office. The  retirement plan  didn’t invest in the fund even after
several visits by Asakawa, the manager said.  Some ended up investing.  Koshinetsu Printers Association
Pension Fund  said it invested with AIJ because it was run by a
former Nomura manager and offered 7 percent returns. Among other
corporate pension plans that put money with AIJ are Advantest
Corp., a maker of memory-chip testers, Yaskawa Electric Corp.,
Fuji Electric Co. and a truck driver pension plan.  “If you had done the basic due diligence, this problem
could have been avoided,” MCP’s Ochi said. “It must have been
the mid-to-small sized pensions that they sold -- it’s a very
sad development.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  