-- Thailand May Get $200 Million China Investment Quota Under QFII Program
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-02-29T07:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/thailand-may-get-200-million-china-investment-quota-under-qfii-program.html
The  Bank of Thailand  may get a $200
million quota from  China  for the qualified foreign-institutional
investor program, Deputy Governor Suchada Kirakul said in an
interview in Bangkok today.  Thailand’s central bank plans to sign a custodian agreement
with HSBC Holdings Plc to invest in the North Asian market under
the so-called QFII program once the quota is allocated from the
State Administration of Foreign Exchange, Suchada said. The
central bank got approval for the QFII license from the China
Securities Regulatory Commission on Jan. 16, she said, adding
that the monetary authority requested a $1 billion allocation.  “We have to wait for the quota from SAFE and we were told
it would take about three months,” Suchada said. “Once we get
the quota, we can start investment.”  China is promoting the use of the yuan in global trade and
investment as overseas demand for the currency increases. There
are about 67,000 Chinese companies with whom Thai corporations
can use the yuan for trade, according to Suchada, who said the
central bank is looking to increase settlement in the currency
by 50 percent this year from $170 million in 2011.  The Bank of  Thailand  also got approval to invest 7 billion
yuan ($1.1 billion) in local-currency bonds through the
interbank  debt market , the deputy governor said. The central
bank has opened a yuan account with the People’s Bank of China
to convert the dollars into yuan, also known as the renminbi,
and is in the process of signing agreements with five brokers to
trade in China’s market, Suchada said.  “We don’t have any renminbi now, so we have to convert the
dollars into renminbi with the PBOC,” she said. “We also need
dealers to buy and sell them. It could be trading soon.”  Swap Agreement  The yuan advanced 4.4 percent against the dollar in the
past 12 months, the best performance among  Asia ’s 11 most-active
currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
renminbi rose 0.07 percent to 6.2945 versus the greenback as of
2:58 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. The currency may strengthen 2.9 percent to 6.12 by
year-end, according to the median estimate of analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Thai and Chinese central banks signed a 70 billion yuan
swap agreement in December to strengthen investment between the
two countries. The three-year swap will probably help increase
yuan settlement with Thai companies, Suchada said. The Bank of
Thailand has also worked with commercial banks including Bangkok
Bank Pcl and Kasikornbank Pcl on a project to promote yuan
settlement, which Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said in
December was “not that successful.”  The $170 million in yuan settlement for exports and imports
last year accounted for 0.25 percent of the total trade with
Chinese companies, according to Suchada.  “Exporters on our part don’t know who would be eligible
and regulation is also not clear,” she said. “The liquidity of
the renminbi in Thailand isn’t as liquid as the  U.S. dollar , so
the quotation isn’t attractive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  