-- Malaysian Air in ‘Crisis’ With 4th Quarterly Loss
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-02-29T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/malaysian-air-in-crisis-with-4th-quarterly-loss.html
Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS) , the
nation’s largest long-haul carrier, reported a fourth straight
quarterly loss on rising fuel costs and provisions for returning
leased aircraft early.  The  net loss  of 1.28 billion ringgit ($426 million) in the
three months ended in December compared with a profit of 225.9
million ringgit a year earlier, according to an exchange filing
yesterday. This raised its full-year loss to 2.5 billion ringgit,
which was more than twice the mean  estimate  of 1.21 billion
ringgit in a survey of 15 analysts by Bloomberg News.  “The company is in crisis,” Md Nor Md Yusof, Malaysian
Air chairman, said in a statement. “The results make for
unpleasant reading. The board and I are confident that we now
have a team and business plan in place that will bring the
necessary sacrifices to ensure a turnaround.”  Ahmad Jauhari Yahya has cut routes, proposed a regional
premium carrier and announced plans to shed units since taking
over as group chief executive officer in September. A funding
plan will be announced within 60 days, his deputy Mohammed
Rashdan Mohd Yusof told reporters in Selangor, near  Kuala Lumpur .  While the airline carried 5 percent more passengers last
year, fuel costs surged 11 percent to 5.9 billion ringgit,
according to yesterday’s statement.  ‘Stop the Bleeding’  Malaysian Air (MAS)  has planned for another full-year loss this
year though will strive to break even, Ahmad Jauhari told
reporters.  “The bottom-line group losses for 2011 underscore the
imperative need for Malaysian Air to immediately adopt strong
measures to stop the bleeding,” he said in the statement.
“These include staff redeployment, increasing productivity and
efficiency, relentless cost control and making further route
reviews.”  Non-fuel costs rose 15 percent to 10.4 billion ringgit in
2011, mainly due to provisions for obsolete engineering stock
and returning 58 leased aircraft by 2014, it said.  The carrier, based in Subang near Kuala Lumpur, expects to
save 302 million ringgit this year by paring flights to cities
including Johannesburg and  Buenos Aires . The company has also
begun talks with  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  and other airlines on
potential partnerships, Ahmad Jauhari said Dec. 7.  “The outlook for 2012 remains challenging for the global
aviation sector with both passenger and cargo segments expected
to remain weak, coupled with rising fuel costs,” the CEO said.  Malaysian Air jumped 4.4 percent to 1.43 ringgit at the
close of trading in Kuala Lumpur yesterday, before the earnings
announcement. The stock has climbed 10 percent this year amid
news of its restructuring, outperforming a 2.5 percent gain in
the FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow in  Hong Kong  at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  