-- Malema’s Ambitions Within South Africa’s Ruling ANC End With His Expulsion
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-03-01T13:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/malema-s-ambitions-within-south-africa-s-anc-end-with-expulsion.html
South Africa ’s  African National
Congress  expelled youth leader Julius Malema, ending his
political ambitions within the ruling party and strengthening
those of President  Jacob Zuma .  Malema, who has 14 days to appeal his sanction, showed no
remorse for actions that led the ANC to find him guilty of
undermining the party, sowing division and breaking its rules,
the ANC’s national disciplinary committee said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  His exclusion may help Zuma win a second term as party
leader in December as it sidelines one of the president’s
biggest critics. The ANC Youth League has dropped its support
for Zuma after helping him oust  Thabo Mbeki  as ANC leader in
2007. Zuma has failed to back Malema’s push for the ANC to adopt
a policy of nationalizing mines in a country that’s the largest
producer of platinum, manganese and chrome.  “Outside of the ANC is the wilderness,” Nic Borain, an
independent political analyst in  Cape Town , said in a telephone
interview. “This has strengthened Zuma. Julius Malema is out of
the picture for a while.”  The Youth League will convene a meeting of its leadership
on March 4 and will hold a press briefing the next day, it said
in an e-mailed statement today.  The disciplinary committee said it gave Malema a harsher
sentence than an initial five-year suspension from the ANC
because he didn’t respect the party’s disciplinary rules. Malema
was charged by the ANC last year after he called for the ousting
of the government in neighboring  Botswana , the second time
within two years that he faced ANC sanctions.  Shots Fired  “We must accept that this is the decision but that is not
the end of the road,” Malema said in comments broadcast on
Johannesburg-based state-owned radio station SAfm today. “I
didn’t do anything wrong. I am persecuted for speaking on behalf
of the ANC Youth League.”  Shots were fired outside Malema’s home in Seshego in the
Limpopo province and two groups of people threw stones at each
other after the verdict, the South African Press Association
reported, citing police.  “We also thank members of the ANC and the ANC YL who went
to defend the house of ANC YL President  Julius Malema  from
rascals in Seshego,” the league said in today’s statement.  The ANC will investigate the violence and appealed for
calm, Keith Khoza, a spokesman for the party, said in an
interview on SAfm.  “Malema is a repeat offender,” the ANC’s disciplinary
committee said. He has “shown no remorse, is not prepared to be
disciplined by the ANC and is not prepared to respect the
disciplinary machinery of the organization.”  ‘Well Orchestrated’  Malema said on Feb. 10 the decision to eject him from the
ANC is motivated by some party leaders opposed to his call to
nationalize mines in a country where  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group have operations. Speaking to
Youth League members in  Pretoria  that day, Malema again pledged
support for opposition groups in Botswana and criticized South
Africa’s foreign policy.  “This has been a well-orchestrated way of neutralizing
him,” Eusebius McKaiser, a lecturer at the University of
Witwatersrand, said in an interview with Johannesburg-based
eNews channel yesterday. “It’s been well thought out.”  Crippled Career  Expulsion from the ANC has crippled the political career of
others. Bantu Holomisa, a deputy minister and ANC national
executive committee member, was ejected from the party in 1996
for accusing a colleague of corruption. The United Democratic
Movement he then formed won 0.9 percent of the vote in the last
general election in 2009.  The Youth League has called for talks with the ANC to
resolve what it says are political differences. The group has
also rejected the ANC’s right to fire its president.  Sindiso Magaqa, secretary-general of the ANC Youth League,
and Floyd Shivambu, its spokesman, were suspended from the ANC
for three years, according to the committee. Malema’s expulsion
can be overturned by the ANC’s national executive committee, the
party’s top decision-making body, or at the December conference
where party members will vote for a new leadership.  The rand rose 0.3 percent to 7.4761 to the dollar as of
2:34 p.m. in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  