-- Stanford ‘Flushed’ Money on Yachts, Cricket, Prosecutor Tells Jurors
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-02-29T22:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/allen-stanford-ponzi-scheme-trial-prosecutor-delivers-closing-arguments.html
R.  Allen Stanford  “flushed”
investor money away on failing businesses, yachts and cricket
tournaments, a U.S. prosecutor told a jury in Houston.  If Stanford’s customers knew what he was really doing with
their money, they wouldn’t have bought certificates of deposit
issued by his Antigua bank, Justice Department lawyer William
Stellmach said in federal court today at the close of the
financier’s five-week investor fraud trial.  “The truth is that he flushed it away,” Stellmach said.  Stanford, 61, is accused of leading a $7 billion
international fraud scheme funded through the sale of CDs issued
by Stanford International Bank Ltd. Some of the CDs were sold in
the U.S. by the Houston-based securities firm, Stanford Group
Co.  “There was no deceit and this man is not guilty,” defense
lawyer Ali Fazel said in his closing argument.  Stanford faces 14 criminal counts, including charges of
mail fraud and  wire fraud  that carry maximum sentences of 20
years in prison, obstruction of a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission investigation, and conspiring to commit each of those
crimes.  The financier has been jailed as a flight risk since being
indicted in June 2009.  His attorneys rested their case on Feb. 27, telling U.S.
District Judge David Hittner that their client wouldn’t testify
in his defense.  Jury Instructions  “The defendant is presumed by law to be innocent,”
Hittner told the jurors today as he gave them instructions. The
jury began deliberations just before 4 p.m. local time.  For closing arguments, Stanford was in the packed courtroom
dressed in a navy blue double-breasted suit, a light blue shirt
and, for the first time since the trial began, a necktie. As
Stellmach addressed the jury, Stanford sat at the defense table
taking notes and occasionally shaking his head.  The prosecutor outlined for the jury what he called the
three big lies of the alleged scheme: Stanford was making safe,
liquid investments; clients’ money was protected by banking
regulations and regulators; and Stanford had sufficient assets
to repay investors.  “For him, the bank was his own personal ATM,” Stellmach
said.  Banking Disclosures  During the trial, Stanford’s lawyers argued that his
banking disclosures complied with internationally accepted
accounting standards. They also contended he had sufficient
assets to honor his commitments until being sued by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission in February 2009.  The federal judge overseeing the SEC case in  Dallas  ordered
a freeze of Stanford’s assets and appointed a receiver to
marshal and liquidate his holdings to repay investors.  “He sank billions to keep afloat his businesses in the
Caribbean,” Stellmach said, describing the businesses as
’’money pits.’’  By 2008, the bank owed investors $7 billion that didn’t
exist, Stellmach said. “Mr. Stanford had been digging that hole
for years with his lavish lifestyles and loser companies.”  $2 Billion  Stanford took $2 billion in loans from the bank, the
prosecutor said, hypothetically enough to build Houston’s
Reliant Stadium and buy its resident  National Football League 
franchise, the Houston Texans, and still have enough money to
own the city’s  National Basketball Association  team, the  Houston
Rockets .  “It wasn’t OK for Allen Stanford to lie, cheat and steal
for 20 years,” Stellmach said in his conclusion. “Allen
Stanford is guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.”  Fazel then told jurors there are gaps in the “evidentiary
bridge” built by prosecutors and cautioned them not to leap to
the conclusion that Stanford is guilty.  “This case isn’t about Reliant Stadium, it’s not about
Rockets and it’s not about the Texans,” Fazel said at the
outset of his closing comments. “It’s about assumption,
presumption, guesses and reasonable doubt.”  “Just because you’re indicted with something doesn’t mean
you’re guilty,” Fazel said.  After about 35 minutes, Fazel yielded to his co-counsel,
Robert Scardino, who joined in criticizing the prosecution.
Scardino challenged the credibility of former Stanford finance
chief James M. Davis, whom he described as the government’s
“key witness.”  Baylor University  Davis, whose relationship with Stanford traces back to when
they were Baylor University roommates, pleaded guilty to fraud-
related charges in 2009 and agreed to cooperate with the
prosecution. He testified against Stanford for five days.  “The key witness in their case has got to be one of the
biggest liars you ever heard about or read about,” Scardino
said of Davis. He told the jury that to believe the government’s
case against Stanford, “you have to believe Davis.”  Scardino echoed Fazel’s theme that investors weren’t
deceived and had been told they were taking a risk.  “It’s the bank’s money, they can invest it however they
wish,” Scardino said. “It just wasn’t the depositors’ business
to know how it was invested.”  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC case is
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford International
Bank Ltd., 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Houston at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  