-- EU May Debate Easing Deficit-Cut Targets at Summit, Almunia Says
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-02-29T15:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/almunia-says-eu-may-debate-budget-targets-at-summit-tomorrow-1-.html
European Union leaders may discuss
relaxing  budget-deficit  targets to take into account slowing
economic growth at a summit this week, European Union
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said.  “There is an in-depth debate: is it logical to maintain
targets as if nothing had happened?” Almunia told reporters in
 Madrid  today. “That is a political discussion that may start
tomorrow in the European Council and I think it is better to
have this discussion with as much data as possible on the
table.”  European leaders are set to sign an agreement on tightening
budget rules on the final day of a summit starting tomorrow in
Brussels. Almunia, a Spaniard and the EU’s former economy
commissioner, said no decision can be taken regarding  Spain  yet
as the commission hasn’t yet received the information it needs.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said today Spain won’t rush to
rein in the euro area’s fourth-biggest shortfall. The nation is
pushing for the EU to review stability programs to take into
account recession forecasts. The country missed its 2011 target
for a deficit of 6 percent of gross domestic product.  Spain will continue to reduce its budget deficit as much as
it can, Rajoy said in an e-mailed statement. The cuts will be
“as much as possible, continuously and without rushing,” Rajoy
said.  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos will explain Spain’s
budget policy to euro-area finance ministers before the summit
tomorrow, said a spokeswoman for the ministry, who declined to
be named in line with government policy.  De Guindos will seek to convince EU leaders by outlining
the steps the government, in power since December, plans this
year to meet its budget commitments, she said.  Rajoy’s government will present its growth forecast and
spending plan for 2012 on March 2.  “I trust that this budget will be fully in line with the
Stability and Growth Pact rules,” European Commission President
 Jose Barroso  told reporters in Brussels today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  