-- Alwaleed’s Kingdom Seeks to Sell First Bonds as Saudi Companies Tap Debt
-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 2012-02-29T14:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/alwaleed-s-kingdom-seeks-to-sell-first-bonds-as-saudi-companies-tap-debt.html
     Feb. 29 (Bloomberg) -- Kingdom Holding Co., an  investment
company  controlled by billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, is
seeking to sell bonds for the first time, joining an increasing
number of Saudi Arabian companies aiming to tap the  debt market .  Kingdom Holding will hold a shareholders’ meeting March 27
to seek approval to sell conventional or Islamic bonds, the
Riyadh-based company said in a statement to the  Saudi bourse 
today. It didn’t provide further details.  Saudi Arabian corporate bond sales are poised to set a
record in 2012 as a surge in state spending in the Arab world’s
biggest economy encourages private businesses to invest more in
expansion projects. Saudi Arabian Mining Co., the nation’s
largest miner, and Almarai Co. are among five companies that
unveiled plans to issue bonds this year. The state-run  General
Authority  of Civil Aviation sold 15 billion riyals ($4 billion)
of Islamic bonds in January.  Kingdom Holding, 95 percent owned by Prince Alwaleed, is
building the tallest tower in the world in Jeddah,  Saudi Arabia ,
at a cost of 4.6 billion riyals. The company said in August it
will use a mix of bank financing, cash and revenue from the
project to fund the development. Kingdom Holding had current
bank  borrowings and terms loans  of 1.46 billion riyals at the
end of last year, according to its financial statement.  Prince Alwaleed’s investments include stakes in General
Motors Co.,  News Corp . and Apple Inc. The prince, a nephew of
Saudi Arabia’s  King Abdullah , was ranked the richest Arab
businessman last year by Arabian Business magazine with assets
valued at $21.3 billion.  Kingdom Holding’s board approved the purchase of the Oasis
Kingdom project and land in Riyadh for 431 million riyals, it
said in an earlier statement today. The  shares  rose 0.9 percent
to 11.05 riyals in Riyadh today, giving the company a market
value of 41 billion riyals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  