-- AMR Won’t Give U.S. Bank More Protection on Aircraft Collateral for Loans
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-02-29T23:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/amr-won-t-give-u-s-bank-more-protection-on-aircraft-collateral-for-loans.html
American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AMR) 
won’t give two of its lenders more protection on collateral for
almost $1.5 billion of the company’s debt, after they had sought
assurance about the eroding value of the bankrupt carrier’s
aircraft and other assets.  Separately, AMR Corp. won permission to hire a group of
legal and financial advisers for its bankruptcy after some
changes were made to answer concerns raised by unions and the
U.S. government about whether they are all necessary. The
company also said in a monthly operating report today that it
had $347 million in cash as of Jan. 31, and had a net loss of
$234 million before taxes for the period. Its cash and short
term investments held at $4.14 billion.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in Manhattan today denied
requests from  U.S. Bank  Trust NA and Wilmington Trust Co.,
saying the company currently had more than enough value to
protect both banks’ collateral, and that they could come back
later if that changes.  “It’s not July yet,” Lane said, responding to comments
from lawyers for U.S. Bank who said that by then, the company
might not have enough assets to be collateral for the $450
million in 10.5 percent notes due 2012, for which it serves as a
trustee.  The notes fell from 103.00 cents on the dollar to as low as
101.24 in trading today, down 1.7 percent, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Wilmington Trust, a trustee for 7.5 percent notes due 2016,
was denied a similar request on behalf of $1 billion in
principle of notes in which Citibank also has a stake.  13,000 Jobs  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR, parent of the third-biggest
U.S. airline, filed for bankruptcy in November, saying it needed
to reduce costs and restructure debts to compete with other
carriers that used bankruptcy to jettison pensions and retiree
benefits and secure new labor agreements. It has said it will
eliminate 13,000 jobs under a plan to cut annual operating costs
by $2 billion and boost revenue by $1 billion.  Advisers hired included Rothschild Inc., McKinsey & Co.,
Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP, the company’s main bankruptcy law
firm,  Boston Consulting Group , and Bain & Co., which will act as
adviser to American Eagle, according to court papers.  “I don’t do this lightly,” Lane said, noting concerns
about the cost to the estate. “This is  bankruptcy court  and you
need to make some changes.”  The U.S. Trustee, which monitors bankruptcy proceedings for
the U.S. Justice Department, had claimed that AMR hasn’t shown
it needs all the advisers, that there was a high potential for
duplicate services and that some of them had possible conflicts
of interest. The  Association of Professional Flight Attendants 
and the Transport Workers Union had also objected.  Secured Loan  U.S. Bank Trust’s loan is secured by 143 aircraft, engine
parts and $41.5 million in cash, according to court papers. U.S.
Bank Trust asked for assurance its collateral would be
protected, such as making sure repairs to all aircraft were
promptly made. As an alternative, the bank said it wanted the
ability to seize its assets or get a first-priority claim on
them.  “I don’t believe that’s a serious risk; that the debtors
would do something to undermine the value of their enterprise,”
Lane said, adding that AMR would probably to keep its fleet in
good shape for its own reasons. A change in the  airline industry 
or fuel costs could change circumstances, at which point the
banks could re-argue their requests, he said.  Lawyers for AMR said in court papers that assertions that
the company isn’t maintaining the aircraft are “unfounded.”
Stephen Karotkin, a lawyer for AMR, told Lane today that the
aircraft were being maintained properly, and that there’s an
“cushion” that protects both lenders from any decrease in
value.  Value Declined  Wilmington Trust said in court papers that its collateral,
valued at $2.37 billion around March 2011, had declined in value
by over $840 million in the nine months prior to AMR’s
bankruptcy.  The notes due in 2016 are secured by assets including
leases on gates and slots at certain airports, and are essential
for American to continue some flights into  Heathrow Airport  in
 England , Narita International Airport in  Japan , Haneda Airport
in Japan, and Beijing Capital International Airport and Shanghai
Pudong International Airport in  China , according to court
papers.  Separately, a request to appoint an official committee to
represent 240 TWA Pilots was delayed until March 6. The
Independent Cockpit Alliance Inc., which requested the
committee, said it had new facts and would submit a new motion
this week. The alliance said pilots from the former Trans World
Airlines, brought into AMR through an acquisition in 2001, have
been historically discriminated against.  AMR has objected, saying the alliance isn’t qualified to
request another committee in the case. A nine-member creditors
committee already represents pilots through the  Allied Pilots
Association .  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  