-- Hands ‘100% Confident’ He’ll Raise New Fund After EMI Loss
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-02-29T10:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/hands-100-confident-he-ll-raise-another-fund-after-emi-loss.html
British financier  Guy Hands , whose
private-equity firm Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd. lost its
investment in British music company EMI Group Ltd. last year,
said he is certain he’ll raise another buyout fund.  Hands, 52, said he is “100 percent confident” he’ll raise
a new fund, answering questions today after a speech at
SuperReturn International conference in Berlin. Asked how big he
expects his fund to be, he said “that’s what I am less
confident on.”  Hands is targeting clean energy and agricultural
investments after losing almost a third of his London-based
firm’s most recent 5.4 billion-euro ($7.3 billion) fund on  EMI (EMI) ,
which  Citigroup Inc. (C) , its lender, seized in February 2011 and
sold in November. He predicted today that European firms will
raise less than a third of what they got during the leveraged
buyout boom years before the financial crisis.  This will help make Europe the “best place to invest,” he
said in his speech, as the overhang of private-equity capital
available for deals gradually disappears, European banks dispose
of assets and large companies sell units.  “The dynamics by the end of 2013 will firmly be in favor
of the buyers, and Europe will become an extremely attractive
place to invest,” he said. “The availability of capital to
invest in deals in  Europe  is reducing rapidly.”  Most of the current so-called “dry powder” of more than
$300 billion will be gone by the end of next year, he said, as
firms inject equity into existing deals that need refinancing
and won’t be able to rely on as much debt financing to fund new
investments as they could before the collapse Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  Investment opportunities will partly come from European
banks selling assets, he said.  Those bank assets “having sat there for several years,
will have little or no capital expenditures made,” he said.
“They will be under-managed, under-invested in, without an
updated strategy and with a disillusioned management. They will
indeed be perfect for private equity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  