-- Apple Says Allowing China’s Proview to Use IPad Brand Would Harm Consumers
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-29T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/apple-says-allowing-china-s-proview-to-use-ipad-brand-would-harm-consumers.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  urged a court in southern
China to deliver a “fair and just” ruling in its dispute with
the local unit of   Proview International Holdings Ltd. (334)  over
ownership of the iPad trademark in the country.  Lawyers for both companies presented arguments for almost
six hours at the Higher People’s Court of Guangdong in Guangzhou
yesterday before being asked by the three-judge panel if they
wished to settle. Attorneys for Apple and Proview said they
would consult their clients and the hearing was adjourned
without a new court date or a timeframe for a ruling.  Apple appealed a November ruling by a lower court that its
2009 contract to buy rights to the iPad name in  China  was
invalid because Proview’s Shenzhen unit that owned them wasn’t a
party to the agreement. A loss in court would subject Apple to
lawsuits seeking damages and enable a nationwide ban on iPad
sales in the company’s biggest  market  outside the U.S. That
would be “unfair” given Apple’s pioneering role in the tablet
market that now gives the mark its worth, Apple’s attorney said.  “Who created the value of the iPad trademark,” Apple’s
attorney Shi Yusheng said in closing remarks yesterday. “I
think everybody knows the answer.”  ‘Multiple Roles’  The dispute centers on whether Proview’s Taiwan unit, which
Apple paid 35,000 British pounds ($55,780) to use the iPad name
in mainland China, had the right to sell it or whether that
rested with the Shenzhen unit and its creditors, including  Bank
of China Ltd. (601988)  and  China Minsheng Banking Corp. (1988)   Lawyers for Proview’s Shenzhen unit said yesterday the
company’s employees didn’t represent it in the negotiations and
were acting on behalf of the Taiwanese division.  “Personnel may have multiple roles or titles within the
group, but the question is in what capacity were they acting?”
Xiao Caiyuan, representing Proview, said during the hearing.
“The agreement makes it clear they were acting on behalf of
Proview Taiwan.”  At least three employees of Proview’s Shenzhen unit
participated in negotiations leading to the agreement to sell
the iPad name to Apple, lawyers for the Cupertino, California-
based company said.  Apple Witness  The trademark negotiations were authorized by Rowell Yang,
chairman of the Shenzhen unit, and the agreement was signed by
Ray Mai, who led the Shenzhen unit’s legal department, the
lawyers said in court.  Apple  sued  Proview Shenzhen in 2010, claiming ownership of
the iPad trademark in China on the basis of a December 2009
contract that the U.S. company says gave it global rights to the
name in 10 countries.  No one in Shenzhen, a city neighboring Hong Kong, knew the
 Taiwan  unit signed away the China trademarks, Yang said in an
interview last month.  The Shenzhen Intermediate People’s Court rejected Apple’s
claims on Nov. 17. The court said the purchase agreement was
signed in the name of Proview’s Taipei-based subsidiary, Proview
Electronics Co., which failed to demonstrate that the transfer
was approved by the Shenzhen unit that owned the mark.  The only witness called by Apple yesterday was its
intellectual property investigator, Graham Robinson, who
exchanged e-mails with Proview employees in 2009. Robinson
testified that a November 2009 e-mail from a legal-department
employee named Yuan Hui showed that Proview agreed to sell all
of its iPad trademarks, including two in China, to Apple.  Proview Sales  When asked whether Yuan represented Proview’s Shenzhen or
Taiwan divisions, Robinson said, “During all our negotiations,
I assumed Hui Yuan represented the interests of the entire
Proview group.”  Proview’s wholly owned subsidiary, Proview Technology
(Shenzhen) Co., obtained the iPad trademark in China in 2001,
according to a Feb. 3, 2010, regulatory filing with the  Hong
Kong  stock exchange. The mark was obtained for a desktop
terminal with touch-screen display called the Internet Personal
Access Device, or IPAD, that the company developed starting in
1998.  About 20,000 of the devices were sold over more than 10
years, according to Yang.  Sales of Apple’s iPads topped 32 million worldwide last
year, earning revenue of $20.4 billion. In less than two years,
the device has become the company’s second-best selling product
by revenue, behind the iPhone.  “Consumers in China have come to associate this trademark
with Apple’s tablet computer,” Shi said during the hearing.
“Allowing Proview to use the brand to make their own products
would cause confusion and harm consumer interests.”  Revenue Quadrupled  Apple quadrupled revenue in China last year after adding
stores and expanding online distribution of its products. The
company has distribution deals for the iPhone with two of
China’s three biggest carriers.  Proview has also applied to China’s Customs Bureau to block
exports and imports of iPads. Last week, the company asked a
court in  California  to stop Apple from using iPad trademarks.  “It’s not really trademark law, it’s about whether the
trademark was legally transferred or not,” Dan Harris, a
Seattle-based lawyer with  Harris & Moure  who handles cases on
intellectual property in China, said before the hearing.
“Proview Taiwan agreed to sign over the trademark, but Proview
Taiwan didn’t own the trademark.”  The Proview Group was founded by Yang in Taiwan in 1989 as
a maker of televisions and computer displays, and went public
eight years later in Hong Kong. By September 1999, it was among
the world’s 10 biggest makers of computer monitors.  Shares Suspended  Sales expanded 10-fold from 1997 to 2008, when the U.S.
subprime mortgage crisis expanded into a global slowdown.
Proview’s  sales  plunged 74 percent to HK$4.46 billion ($575
million) in 2009, when it had a loss of HK$2.91 billion.  As falling sales eroded  cash flow , Proview units defaulted
on payments to suppliers and creditors, the company said in its
 annual report  that year.  After Proview Technology (Shenzhen) Co. defaulted on loans,
the Shenzhen Intermediate People’s Court in March 2009 appointed
 Bank of China  and Minsheng to lead a reorganization of the
company, Yang, who remains chairman of the unit, said in a Feb.
21 interview.  Proview’s Hong Kong shares have been suspended since Aug.
2, 2010. The Hong Kong stock exchange on Dec. 30 gave Proview a
third and final warning that it will be removed from the bourse
by June 29 if it fails to publish earnings and demonstrate
sufficient working capital for 12 months.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  