-- Apple Dividend Seen Returning Part of $98 Billion in Cash: Tech
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-02-29T21:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/apple-dividend-may-return-part-of-98b-cash.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which today topped a
$500 billion market capitalization, will probably start paying a
dividend this year, attempting to appease investors who have
said the electronics maker is hoarding too much cash.  The company is likely to declare a quarterly  dividend  of
about $2 a share before the year is out, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The projections are based in part on the
dividends paid by other large technology providers, including
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and International Business Machines Corp.  An Apple dividend would be a boon to investors and would
probably yield benefits for the company, which has $97.6 billion
in cash and investments, and can afford the $7.46 billion a year
that a $2 dividend would cost. A dividend could provide a boost
to Apple by attracting a new class of investors that only hold
stock in dividend-paying companies. Apple also may buy back
shares, another move that could lift its stock price.  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said this month that
officials are in “active discussions” about what to do with
the company’s cash and investments, saying that the sum is
“more than we need to run a company.”  Cook isn’t likely to get much argument from investors.  “Why not do the sensible thing and begin to share part of
the capital that any rational person would say is beyond what
the company needs to sustain itself with shareholders,” said
 Keith Goddard , CEO of Capital Advisors Inc., an Apple
shareholder.  Other investors that have called on Apple to pay a dividend
include Wedgewood Partners Inc. and Sustainable Growth Advisers
LP.  Predicting a Dividend  Analysts at Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Mizuho
Securities USA Inc. and Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. also predict
that Apple will institute a dividend some time soon.  Apple generated $16 billion in cash in the first quarter of
fiscal 2012. Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach,
predicts Apple will generate about $75 billion in new cash this
year alone.  In determining its  dividend  estimate, Bloomberg takes into
account the dividend size of other large technology companies,
Apple’s projected earnings for next year and the amount of money
on its balance sheet.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment
beyond the remarks made earlier by Cook.  Apple rose 1.3 percent to $542.44 at the close in  New York .
The  shares  have climbed 34 percent this year.  Investors’ Potential Benefit  A $2-a-quarter dividend would mean hundreds of millions of
dollars in new revenue for Apple’s  top institutional investors .  Fidelity Management & Research Co., Apple’s biggest
investor, stands to make about $97.2 million each quarter, based
on its holding of 48.6 million shares at the end of 2011.
Vanguard Group Inc., the No. 2 holder, would make $74.4 million,
while State Street Corp., Apple’s third-largest investor, would
make $69.5 million.  Instituting a dividend might also provide a long-term boost
to Apple’s stock price by bringing in investors who are
restricted to buying shares in dividend-paying companies, said
 Toni Sacconaghi , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., and
Sterne Agee’s Wu. With  interest rates  so low, investors are
putting more money into dividend-paying stocks that regularly
return money to shareholders, Wu said.  One-Time Option  Apple may choose to make a one-time distribution, rather
than making a quarterly payment, said Doron Nissim, a professor
of accounting at  Columbia Business School  in New York. A single
payout would leave investors less vulnerable to subsequent
increases in taxes on dividends, while also removing the risk to
Apple’s stock price if they someday were to end the dividend, he
said.  Apple last paid a dividend in 1995, before co-founder  Steve Jobs  returned as CEO and led the introduction of top-selling
products including the  iPod, iPhone and iPad . The final
dividend, of 12 cents a share, was suspended amid leadership
upheaval and dwindling computer-market share. According to a
company  filing , Apple’s cash, equivalents and short-term
investments dropped by about half, to $491 million, in the year
through Sept. 29, 1995.  In the years since, Apple has ascended to become the world’s
most valuable company, with a market value of $505.8 billion,
more than  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  In January, the company reported
record profit of $13.1 billion on sales of $46.3 billion.  “They can pay a very significant amount,” Columbia’s
Nissim said.  Overseas Accounts  Still, the amount of cash that Apple can use for dividend
payments is limited because the company keeps about 60 percent
of its money in overseas accounts. Apple’s taxes were almost $4
billion lower in fiscal 2011 than if it had reported all income
was earned in the U.S., Nissim said. And Apple could ultimately
issue a dividend bigger or smaller than $2 a share, or decide
not to declare a quarterly payout.  Jobs, who died in October, had long rebuffed calls to
return money to investors. Since taking over as CEO, Cook has
signaled a greater willingness to heed the concerns of
shareholders, including criticism that the company is
stockpiling too much cash.  “The board and management team are thinking about this
very deeply,” Cook said last week at the company’s shareholder
meeting, reiterating earlier comments.  Microsoft’s Approach  The closest analogy to Apple’s situation is Microsoft,
which started to pay a regular  dividend  in 2003, said Columbia’s
Nissim, whose research includes the effectiveness of dividends.
Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, also paid a one-
time special dividend in 2004, using $32 billion of its $56.4
billion in available cash at the time.  Apple and Google Inc., owner of the world’s most popular
search engine, are the only technology companies with a market
value higher than $100 billion that don’t pay a dividend. In
September, Microsoft boosted its quarterly dividend by 25
percent to 20 cents a share.  Intel (INTC) , the world’s largest
chipmaker, raised its dividend in May to 21 cents, from 18
cents. IBM pays a dividend of 75 cents a share. Cisco Systems
Inc.’s quarterly payout is 8 cents a share.  “The board and Tim Cook are feeling the pressure,”  Mark Bronzo , who helps manage about $24 billion at Security Global
Investors in Irvington, New York, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s very likely that we’ll see Apple pay a dividend, that
we’ll see Apple return some cash to shareholders.”  To contact the reporters on this story: Adam Satariano in  San
Francisco  at   asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at
   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 