-- Palmer Turns to Classic Look to Revive Golf Clothing Line
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-02-29T23:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/arnold-palmer-turns-to-classic-look-to-revitalize-his-golf-clothing-line.html
Arnold Palmer is going back in time
to update his image.  The 82-year-old golfer and businessman, one of the sport’s
most successful and marketable figures for six decades, turned
to 29-year-old  Ryan Moore  of the U.S. PGA Tour as the pitchman
for a new clothing line that seeks to shake off the Palmer
brand’s reputation for being a range of dowdy apparel for old
men.  “It was stale,” said  Geoff Tait , co-founder of Toronto-
based manufacturer  Quagmire Golf Inc. , which licenses the Palmer
apparel brand. “Where it was heading was kind of toward that
really, really old demographic.”  Palmer was 31st on Esquire’s 2010 list of the 75 best-
dressed men of all time for his on-course style of his prime
that featured mid-century neutral colors and slim profiles. He
is returning to that era with  Arnie Wear , incorporating his
style through the 1950s, ‘60s and ‘70s -- adding black and white
accents -- to try to attract younger consumers while not
alienating older fans.  “I care very much about his legacy and I want to see it
carried on,” said Amy Saunders, Palmer’s 53-year-old daughter.
“There’s a lot of history and tradition that shouldn’t be
lost.”  While companies such as  Nike Inc. (NKE) ,  Puma SE (PUM) ,  Galvin Green 
and  J. Lindberg  have developed modern, athletic styles and
breathable fabrics to attract young consumers, many of Palmer’s
cotton clothes have remained unchanged through the years.  Nothing Radical  “I’m a straight-collared sports-shirt man,” Palmer said
in a telephone interview from his home in  Palm Springs ,
 California . “I’m fairly conservative in my mode of dress. There
are some extremes, but nothing really radically extreme.”  The new line moves in a much-needed new direction, Tait
said last month at the PGA Merchandise Show in  Orlando , where
the clothes were on display. It taps into the trend toward retro
clothing, inspired in part by television shows such as AMC
Networks Inc.’s “Mad Men,” Tait and Palmer’s daughter said.  “There was a style when my father was coming up through
the ranks that was classic,” Saunders said. “We all looked at
the clothing back then and saw how back in vogue it is now. It
all just makes sense to reinvent that.”  On Sale Now  Solid-color shirts are $59, while fashion polos range from
$69-$89. Sweaters are $89 and shorts and pants range from $79-
$89, according to Tait. The line went on sale today at retailers
including  Golfsmith International Holdings Inc. (GOLF)   Since he began  Arnold Palmer Enterprises Inc.  in 1960 with
the help of Mark McCormack, the late founder of the
International Management Group, Palmer has become a very rich
man thanks to that older demographic, who made up “Arnie’s
Army” of fans as the golfer known as the “King” won seven
major championships, including four  Masters Tournament  titles.  Endorsements and branded products, such as his line of
Arnie  women’s clothing  sold in almost 300 stores throughout  Asia ,
gave Palmer an income of $36 million in 2011, according to Golf
Digest magazine’s annual  earnings list  -- third in the sport
behind  Tiger Woods  and  Phil Mickelson , even though Palmer last
won a  PGA Tour  event in 1973.  His playing legacy, which included 62 titles on the U.S.
PGA Tour, doesn’t resonate with younger recreational players,
said Casey Alexander, who analyzes the golf industry as a
director of equity research at New York-based Gilford Securities
Inc.  Ties on Course  Hence the selection of Moore, a player who shunned major
corporate sponsors in favor of  his own style  on the golf course,
to push the new line.  Moore’s ensembles sometimes include ties -- he wore one
during last year’s Masters Tournament at  Georgia ’s Augusta
National Golf Club and helped develop his own line of minimalist
 True Linkswear  golf shoes. That style makes him the ideal player
to introduce the updated brand to a new generation, Saunders
said.  “Ryan has been identified as having a classy style without
being over the top,” she said. “He definitely stands out and
that’s the point. It’s a little funky but it’s not crazy.”  Moore said he was just waiting for the right sponsor.  “Mr. Palmer’s image in golf over the years is so great,
and people respect him so much,” he said. “To have an
affiliation with him, especially a young player like myself, I
said, “Absolutely!” in a heartbeat. It was just an opportunity
I couldn’t pass up.”  Years of Persuasion  Bringing Palmer around to the idea wasn’t easy.  “It’s taken several years to convince him that we need to
take a look at how he’s represented across the board in the
marketplace,” said Cori Britt, vice president of  Arnold Palmer 
Enterprises.  Britt declined to discuss sales figures for Palmer’s
clothing line or his other businesses, which include golf course
design and a new agreement with Hornell Brewing Co. for an
alcoholic version of an iced tea and lemonade drink generally
referred to as an Arnold Palmer.  Golf apparel accounted for $906 million in sales in on- and
off-course shops in 2011, according to Tom Stine, co-founder of
Kissimmee, Florida-based Golf Datatech, which tracks the
industry.  Since Palmer takes an active role in all business decisions,
he had to approve Moore before he became an endorser, Britt said.
The two men have known each other since Moore won the U.S.
Amateur title in 2004. While Palmer called Moore a “great young
man,” he also had some style advice for him.  “I might convince him to shave a little,” Palmer said.
“That’s about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  