-- Martin Marietta’s Nye Says Vulcan Takeover Would Mean Growth
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-02-29T21:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/martin-marietta-s-nye-says-vulcan-takeover-would-mean-growth-1-.html
Martin Marietta Materials Inc. (MLM)  Chief
Executive Officer Ward Nye told a judge his planned $4.7 billion
hostile takeover of rival gravel producer  Vulcan Materials Co. (VMC) 
would lead to long-term growth.  Nye’s testimony came a day after Vulcan CEO Don James told
Delaware Chancery Court trial Judge Leo Strine Jr. that the
companies had been in friendly talks about a “merger of
equals” just two years ago. Martin Marietta made the
unsolicited offer in December, after negotiations stalled.  “I’ve always viewed it as a very attractive and
synergistic combination,” Nye told the judge in the second day
of trial in Wilmington. He said the merger, seriously
contemplated in talks in 2010, would produce “hundreds of
millions of dollars” in savings. “The operating efficiencies
would have been huge,” based on earlier studies, he said.  Vulcan has rejected the offer as inadequate and claims
 Martin Marietta  violated a confidentiality agreement not to
reveal the negotiations. Martin Marietta sued contending the
agreement lacked any clause prohibiting takeover solicitations.  The combination of Martin Marietta, based in Raleigh,  North
Carolina , and Vulcan, of Birmingham,  Alabama , would create the
world’s largest producer of sand, gravel and crushed stone.  2010 Agreement  Martin Marietta on Dec. 12 offered to exchange half a share
for each Vulcan share. Vulcan contends a 2010 agreement from
previous talks doesn’t allow Martin Marietta to offer to buy
Vulcan’s public shares or to solicit votes for five board
nominees, according to court papers.  Nye explained to Strine he’d been in the aggregates
business, which essentially “makes little rocks out of big
rocks,” most of his life.  He said early analyses show a merged Vulcan and Martin
Marietta would benefit from efficiencies involving payroll,
maintenance, repair and supplies, among other things, as its
products fill a growing need in construction and national bridge
and highway infrastructure restoration.  Nye told the judge that in talks that stalled over who
would run the combined company, it was important that he be the
CEO to ensure tough cuts needed for success.  ‘Much Discipline’  In the economic downturn, Nye said, “I felt like there had
not been as much discipline on the Vulcan side.”  Vulcan is forecast to lose $48 million this year, according
to the average of 14 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Martin Marietta has reported profits since at least 1992, and
earnings this year are forecast to be $114 million, according to
the average of 15 estimates.  “We continue to recommend that shareholders not tender any
shares to Martin Marietta,” James said in a Feb. 23 letter to
employees.  James testified he didn’t want information about merger
talks made public because of possible supply disruptions,
litigation costs and possible efforts by “global” competitors
such as  Mexico ’s  Cemex SAB de CV (CEMEXCPO)  to acquire Vulcan assets.  Under cross-examination, James was asked whether Vulcan
lost business because of the dispute. “Not that I’m aware of,”
he said.  Martin Marietta fell 99 cents or 1.14 percent to $85.87 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading at 4 p.m.,which values
the exchange offer at $42.93. Vulcan declined 1.76 percent to
$44.56.  The case is Martin Marietta Materials v. Vulcan Materials,
CA7102, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 Schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  