-- Harvey Norman First-Half Profit Falls on Consumer Slowdown
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-02-29T09:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/harvey-norman-first-half-profit-falls-2-1-on-consumer-slowdown.html
Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd. (HVN) ,
 Australia ’s largest electrical-goods retailer, said first-half
earnings fell 2.1 percent as stalling  consumer spending  cut
sales and crimped fees from franchisees.  Net income  dropped to A$128.9 million ($139 million) in the
six months ended Dec. 31, from A$131.7 million a year earlier,
the Sydney-based company said in a statement today.  Harvey Norman  shares fell the most in two weeks after  cash
flow  from operations plunged  79 percent  amid a slide in revenue
and increased loans to help stores buy inventory for the
Christmas period. Earnings from franchising operations dropped
by 37 percent in the first half, it said.  “The cash flow was horrendous,” said Sondal Bensan, a
Sydney-based analyst at  BT Investment Management Ltd. (BTT) , which has
more than $40 billion under management.  Harvey Norman  shares  fell 4.2 percent to A$2.07 at the
close of trading in Sydney, the biggest decline since Feb. 14.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.8 percent.  Australian  consumer confidence   fell  in the second half of
2011 to levels last seen in the aftermath of the 2008 financial
crisis, hurting the profitability of chains selling costlier
items such as electrical goods and furniture.  Falling Prices  A decline in prices for electronics including televisions
and computers cut Harvey Norman’s retail sales by 6.1 percent in
the period, with revenue from stores open at least a year
falling 6.3 percent.  “The underlying performance of the business doesn’t look
great,”  David Thomas , an analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets
in Sydney with a “sell”  rating  on the stock, said by
telephone.  The audio-visual and information-technology markets will
continue to be challenged in the next six months, Harvey Norman
said in its statement.  The company expects growth in home appliances, while online
sales, introduced in  Australia and New Zealand  in during 2011,
will provide incremental revenue, Harvey Norman said, without
specifying a timeframe.  Pretax earnings from franchises declined to A$95.5 million
in the six months ended Dec. 31, from A$150.4 million a year
earlier. The margin narrowed 1.78 percentage points to 3.7
percent, worse than the 3.9 percent predicted by Craig Woolford,
an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney.  Property earnings gained 46 percent to A$68.8 million. The
unit, which gets income from developing and renting outlets to
franchisees, accounted for 42 percent of Harvey Norman’s pretax
profit.  JB Hi-Fi Ltd. (JBH) , the nation’s second-largest electronics
chain, reported a 9.4 percent drop in first-half profit on Feb.
13. The six months ended Dec. 31 had been “the most challenging
period for retailers in many years,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  