-- Asian Stocks Enter Bull Market as Central Banks Pumping Cash Spur Recovery
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-03-01T05:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/asian-stocks-enter-bull-market-as-central-banks-pumping-cash-spur-recovery.html
Asian stocks entered a bull market
yesterday after central-bank easing from the U.S. and Europe to
 China  and Japan fueled the  fastest rally  in more than two years.  China Shipping Container Lines Co. (2866) , which surged 163
percent, led gains since a low on Oct. 5 as efforts to prevent
the spread of Europe’s debt crisis and improving U.S. economic
reports boosted the outlook for the region’s exporters.  S-Oil
Corp. (010950) , Korea’s No. 3 refiner, led energy stocks higher as crude
prices surged.  Agile Property Holdings Ltd. (3383) , a Chinese
developer, rose 137 percent on speculation the country will ease
property curbs as inflation slows.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.7 percent to 128.06 as
of 2:43 p.m. today in Tokyo, after advancing more than 20
percent from its Oct. 5 low and entering a so-called bull market
as of yesterday. The gauge has advanced the last  10 weeks , the
longest such streak since its inception in 1988, as the  European
Central Bank  expanded its balance sheet to a record, the U.S.
 Federal Reserve  pledged near-zero  interest rates  and China
lowered reserve ratios.  “One would have expected some kind of a pause by now
because the market has been rising since mid-December,” said
Mark Matthews, Singapore-based head of research for Asia at
 Julius Baer , which oversees about $180 billion in assets under
management globally. “The major thing that put the floor on
markets was the European Central Bank’s long-term refinancing
operations that were introduced in December. U.S. data has been
pretty robust too. All these things are good. It’s all good.”  The rally has boosted valuations for Asian stocks to the
highest level in two years relative to global equities. The  MSCI
Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  trades at 15.1  times estimated  profit, while
the MSCI All-Country World Index has a multiple of 12.7,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Regional Gauges Surge  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , which added 46
percent from Oct. 5, has led gains as easing inflation and
slowing growth in the world’s second-largest economy allowed the
People’s Bank of China to cut  reserve requirements  twice.  Chinese property companies and infrastructure stocks such
as CSR Corp., a railcar maker whose  Hong Kong  shares jumped 151
percent, have surged as HSBC Holdings Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the government has a number of
tools to fine tune the economy. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index
advanced 33 percent in the period.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  climbed 15 percent. Gains
increased through February as further easing by the Bank of
Japan and receding concern about financial meltdown in Europe
saw the yen weaken, boosting the outlook for the nation’s
exporters.  Easing Lends Strength  “The global trend towards monetary easing is the major
factor giving equities strength,”  Ayako Sera , a market
strategist in Tokyo at Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co., which
manages the equivalent of $298 billion. “Corporate earnings are
holding up even amid some concern about the global economy, and
easing measures are pushing up shares.”  Analysts are estimating that Asia-Pacific index companies
will record earnings-per-share growth of  31 percent  over the
next four quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
About half of companies that have issued quarterly reports since
Jan. 9 have failed to meet analysts’ estimates.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 9.5 percent.  Korea ’s
Kospi Index increased 22 percent. The BSE India Sensitive Index
advanced 12 percent.  “The rally looks sustainable,” said Khiem Do, Hong Kong-
based head of multi-asset strategy at Baring Asset Management
Ltd., which oversees $46 billion. “The recession in Europe
doesn’t look that severe. The U.S. economy looks OK and China
isn’t falling into a hard landing.”  China’s Manufacturing  China’s manufacturing improved for a third straight month
in February, signaling the world’s second-biggest economy is
maintaining momentum amid Europe’s debt crisis and a cooling
domestic property market.  Energy companies had the biggest advance among the 10
industries in the Asia-Pacific gauge as the improving economic
outlook and simmering tensions with Iran spurred an increase of
more than 40 percent in the price of oil since October.  South Korean S-Oil jumped 52 percent to 125,500 won in the
period.  Japan Petroleum Exploration Co. (1662)  increased 47 percent to
3,945 yen and  Santos Ltd. (STO) , Australia’s No. 2 oil company,
climbed 27 percent. Sembcorp Marine Ltd., the world’s No. 2
maker of oil rigs, jumped 72 percent to S$5.35 in Singapore.  ECB President Mario Draghi’s unprecedented emergency
lending to euro-region financial institutions helped persuade
investors that a credit freeze will be averted. The ECB said
yesterday it will lend banks 529.5 billion euros ($712.2
billion) for 1,092 days, topping the 489 billion euros handed
out to 523 institutions in the first three-year operation in
December.  Exporters Advance  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a Hong Kong-listed clothier that gets
about 80 percent of revenue from Europe, climbed 85 percent to
HK$17.40. Hutchison Whampoa Ltd., owner of ports in Germany,
Spain and Italy, advanced 43 percent. Canon Inc., the Japanese
camera maker that counts Europe as its biggest market, added 7.3
percent to 3,680 yen.  Exporters to the U.S. have also risen amid promises from
the Federal Reserve to keep borrowing rates near zero through at
least late 2014 to support growth. Applications for U.S.
unemployment insurance benefits were unchanged in the week ended
Feb. 18 at 351,000, the fewest since March 2008, Labor
Department figures showed Feb. 23. Measures of consumer
confidence and housing starts have also improved.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the biggest supplier to Wal-Mart Stores
Inc., jumped 54 percent to HK$17.80.  James Hardie Industries NV (JHX) ,
which makes most of its revenue selling home siding in the U.S.,
surged 36 percent to A$7.33 in Sydney. Samsung Electronics Ltd.,
the world’s second-largest seller of phone handsets, climbed 43
percent in Seoul.  Among stocks that fell,  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) , the Japanese
computer-memory maker, had the biggest decline, dropping 99
percent to 7 yen after filing for bankruptcy on Feb. 27. Hynix
Semiconductor Inc., a Korean rival, has increased 51 percent
since Oct. 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  