-- Asia Faces Slower Growth on Europe Crisis, Oil, ADB Says
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-02-29T08:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/asia-faces-slower-growth-on-europe-crisis-oil-adb-says-1-.html
Asian economies may expand at a
weaker pace than originally forecast this year as they face the
effects of  Europe ’s debt crisis and rising  oil prices , Rajat Nag,
Asian Development Bank managing director-general said.  “Growth in  Asia  will be a bit muted,” Nag said in an
interview in his office in Manila today. “The health of the
euro zone will remain quite fragile for quite some time. What
happens there, plus the high oil prices, will have an effect on
Asia,” he said, adding that ADB is revisiting its economic
projections.  Expansion in Asia from  China  to India is easing as Europe’s
sovereign debt-crisis imperils the region’s exports, prompting
policy makers to cut  interest rates  or refrain from raising them
to boost domestic demand. Weaker growth will exacerbate poverty
in the region, putting more pressure on governments and
multilateral agencies to boost spending on the poor, Nag said.  The ADB will meet with donor countries next week in  Manila 
to negotiate raising at least $12 billion for the Asian
Development Fund for loans and grants to poor countries from
2013 to 2016, Nag said. Asian nations are expected to contribute
more to as the debt crisis limits European nations, he said.  “Under the current difficult economic environment, raising
funds for the Asian Development Fund is a big challenge,” Nag
said. “There’s a lot of work Asia needs to do, and we are
asking our donors to support us.”  At Risk  Failure to meet the financing requirements will put at risk
infrastructure and welfare projects funded by the ADB in the
poorest countries in the region, including Cambodia, Laos and
Nepal, Nag said.  “Under tight resources, we’ve got to prioritize,” he said.  Members made up $4.2 billion of the current $11.3 billion
Asian Development Fund, according to the  2008 donor’s report .
Countries outside the Asia-Pacific region accounted for more
than 40 percent of contributions, with the U.S. giving about 10
percent, and the U.K. and  Germany  making up 4.8 percent each.  The ADB is looking for new donors and is asking India and
countries in Central Asia to contribute, Nag said. The fund is
also seeking higher contributions from China, Australia and
 South Korea . Aside from that, the ADB is also asking nations to
accelerate repayment of loans, he said.  The ADB is reviewing its growth forecasts for Asia, which
are scheduled to be released in April, he said.  The lender forecast in September that Asia excluding Japan
will expand at the same pace this year as its 7.5 percent
estimate for 2011.  India’s economy  expanded at the weakest pace
in more than two years last quarter, a report showed today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  