-- Stocks Fall With Treasuries, Gold as Dollar Gains on Bernanke’s Comments
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-02-29T21:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/asian-stocks-rise-for-second-day-as-production-beats-estimates-euro-gains.html
Treasuries and U.S. stocks fell,
pulling U.S. benchmark equity indexes down from almost four-year
highs, while the dollar rose after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke ’s remarks to Congress damped speculation of more
quantitative easing to help the economy.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.5 percent to
1,365.68 at 4 p.m. in New York after rising as much as 0.4
percent in the first half hour. Ten-year U.S. Treasury yields
increased three basis points to 1.98 percent, reversing an early
drop, and the  Dollar Index  rose 0.7 percent. Gold futures sank
4.3 percent to $1,711.30 an ounce, the biggest loss of the year.
Oil rose 0.5 percent to $107.07 a barrel, erasing early losses.  The  S&P 500  trimmed its February advance to 4.1 percent,
its third straight monthly gain. While Bernanke told Congress
that keeping monetary stimulus is warranted, he said rising
gasoline prices are likely to push up inflation temporarily and
the drop in the  unemployment rate  has been more rapid than
expected. The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 3 percent annual rate
in the fourth quarter, more than forecast, and the Fed’s Beige
Book survey said that manufacturing continued to expand at a
“steady pace” in January and early February.  “The market is interpreting what Bernanke said as no more
QE,” said Paul Horrmann, a broker in New York at Tradition
Asiel Securities Inc., an interdealer broker. “That’s why the
markets came off.”  Hewlett-Packard Co., Alcoa Inc. and Bank of America Corp.
fell more than 1.6 percent to lead declines among 21 of 30
stocks in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , while Coca-Cola Co.
and Home Depot Inc. had the biggest gains. The Dow retreated
53.05 points, or 0.4 percent, to 12,952.07 after yesterday
exceeding 13,000 the first time since May 2008.  ‘Far From Normal’  Yields on 30-year Treasury bonds increased one basis point
to 3.09 percent and two-year rates rose less than one point to
0.30 percent. The dollar strengthened against 10 of 16 major
peers, rising 1 percent to $1.3327 against the euro after
reversing an early 0.2 percent retreat.  While describing “positive developments” in the labor
market, Bernanke said “the job market remains far from normal”
during the first day of his semi-annual monetary policy report
to Congress.  Bernanke’s remarks “were most notable for what he did not
say,” according to a note to clients from Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.’s chief economist, Jan Hatzius. “The Chairman gave no
clear signal that the committee is considering further monetary
easing in the near future.”  Oil Halts Slide  The S&P GSCI Index was little changed, reversing a 1.4
percent drop as oil rebounded from early losses. Silver, gold
and lead fell more than 4 percent to lead declines, while
natural gas and hogs rose more than 1 percent for the biggest
gains among 24 commodities. Oil in  New York  rose for the first
time in three days, reversing a decline in the last half-hour of
floor trading, to cap the first monthly gain in three.  U.S  stocks  extended a global rally earlier after the
 European Central Bank  provided lenders with a larger amount of
cash than forecast. The ECB allotted 529.5 billion euros ($712
billion) in three-year funds. Economists predicted 470 billion
euros, a Bloomberg survey showed.  “It’s stopped the fears about systemic risk,” Patrick Legland, head of research at Societe Generale SA, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview about the ECB loans. “This is
very good. What we need is step two -- additional measures to
support the economy. This is a movement in the right
direction.”  European Stocks, Yields  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index ended little changed, erasing a
rally of as much as 0.8 percent. ITV PLC, the U.K.’s largest
commercial terrestrial broadcaster, jumped 6.8 percent for its
biggest rally in a year after profit topped estimates on growth
in services that rely less on advertising. Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc slumped 5 percent as Credit Suisse Group AG sold
shares in the company.  The yield on the 10-year Italian bond fell 16 basis points
to 5.19 percent. The German 10-year bund yield added two basis
points to 1.82 percent as the nation sold 3.26 billion euros of
the securities.  Portugal ’s 10-year yield surged 73 basis points to 13.75
percent, an almost one-month high. The ECB was said to purchase
 government bonds  for the first time in two weeks, buying short-
dated Portuguese securities after they underperformed euro-area
peers. The ECB’s purchases were small, according to two people
with knowledge of the transactions, who declined to be
identified because the trades are confidential. A spokesman for
the ECB declined to comment.  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of euro-area
finance ministers, said Portugal’s chiefs told him they won’t
need to seek a new bailout.  Default Swaps, Euro  The cost of insuring against default on sovereign debt
rose, with the Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of
credit-default swaps on 15 governments increasing 1.9 basis
point to 344.  The euro weakened against all 16 major peers except the
Brazilian real, Swiss franc and Japanese yen.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 0.9 percent, headed
for the highest closing level since Aug. 3. The gauge has jumped
5.8 percent in February, its second consecutive monthly
increase. Benchmark indexes gained more than 1 percent in
 Russia ,  South Korea ,  Indonesia  and the  Philippines . The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 1 percent on concern the government will
retain measures to curb gains in housing prices this year.
 Asustek Computer Inc. (2357)  jumped 7 percent in Taipei, helping the
 Taiex Index (TWSE)  gain 2 percent, after saying notebook shipments will
increase 22 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  