-- Australian Manufacturing Grew Third Straight Month in February
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-29T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/australian-manufacturing-grows-for-third-straight-month-as-orders-pick-up.html
Australian  manufacturing  expanded
for a third straight month in February, led by clothing,
footwear and transport equipment, as the industry adjusts to a
stronger currency, a private survey showed.  The  manufacturing index  was 51.3 last month compared with
51.6 in January, the Australian Industry Group and
PricewaterhouseCoopers said in a survey released today. It was
the first time since August 2010 the figure has held for three
straight months above 50, the dividing line between expansion
and contraction.  “Australian manufacturing remains resilient in the face of
the high dollar and difficult trading conditions,” Innes Willox, chief executive-designate at AIG, said in a statement.
“The movement of new orders into positive territory for the
first time since the middle of 2011 is also encouraging.”  The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  reduced its benchmark
 interest rate  in November and December last year as inflation
cooled and global risks increased. Its unexpected pause in
February at 4.25 percent and a resource investment expansion
have spurred the currency, which reached a six-month high of
$1.0845 following the decision and has appreciated 5 percent
this year. The local dollar traded at $1.0733 earlier today.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , the country’s largest steel producer,
in August shuttered its export division. Toyota Motor Corp. and
General Motors Co. have cut jobs in Australia this year, citing
the currency’s strength.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  is reviewing the future of
an aluminum smelter.  Better Productivity  “We can expect the recent spate of announced job cuts in
the manufacturing industry will lower the Australian PMI
employment sub-index in coming months,” Jeremy Thorpe, PwC’s
partner for economics and policy, said in a statement. “The job
reductions are a clear demonstration of the manufacturing
industry’s focus on improving  labor productivity .”  The currency’s gains have hurt earnings for manufacturers,
tourism and retailers, helping create what the RBA has referred
to as a multi-speed economy with those industries lagging behind
the performance of companies linked to the nation’s mining boom.  The manufacturing index’s reading on wages fell 3.7 points
to 57 and inventories dropped 3.2 points to 51.1, today’s report
showed. Supplier deliveries declined 3.8 points to 51.8.  A gauge of employment slid 1 point to 50 in February, while
new orders gained 1.8 points to 51.7, the report showed. The
production measure advanced 1 point to 51.7.  The manufacturing survey, which is similar to the U.S. ISM
index, polled more than 200 companies about production, new
orders, deliveries, inventories and employment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  