-- Australian, N.Z. Dollars Strengthen Against Major Peers After China PMI
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-03-01T17:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/australian-new-zealand-dollars-climb-versus-yen-before-china-pmi-data.html
The  Australia  and  New Zealand 
currencies gained versus most of their major counterparts as
signs of improvement in Chinese manufacturing boosted the
outlook for the South Pacific nations’ exports.  The so-called Aussie and kiwi rose against the dollar after
 China ’s manufacturing  purchasing managers’ index  indicated an
expansion in February for the third-straight month. The appeal
of Australia’s currency was tempered after the nation’s building
approvals climbed less than forecast in January and business
investment fell in the fourth quarter. Gains in New Zealand’s
dollar were limited after the country’s terms of trade index
dropped and as Asian stocks declined.  Both currencies “are a little bit firmer,” said  Sue Trinh , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada in  Hong Kong . “The stabilization of the numbers would
support the idea that China’s in for a soft economic landing.”  Australia’s dollar rose 0.6 percent to $1.0798 at 12:01
p.m. in  New York . It advanced 0.6 percent to 87.61 yen. New
Zealand’s currency added 0.6 percent to 83.93 U.S. cents. It
strengthened 0.6 percent to 68.09 yen.  The MSCI World Index of stocks rose 0.4 percent.  China’s purchasing managers’ index rose to 51.0 last month
from 50.5 in January, the nation’s statistics bureau and
logistics federation said in a statement today. That compares
with the 50.9 median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. A reading above 50 indicates expansion. Economic
data in the first two months are distorted by the week-long
Chinese New Year holiday.  Housing Numbers  China is Australia’s biggest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-largest export destination.  The Australian dollar earlier pared its gain versus the
dollar and yen after the Bureau of Statistics said the number of
permits granted to build or renovate houses and apartments
gained 0.9 percent in January from the previous month when they
dropped a revised 0.8 percent. The result compares with the
median forecast of a 2 percent rise in a separate Bloomberg
poll.  Investor appetite for New Zealand’s currency was curbed
after the country’s  terms of trade index , which measures the
price of exports relative to imports, dropped 1.4 percent in the
fourth quarter of 2011 from the previous three-month period,
when it slumped a revised 0.6 percent, according to data
released today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  