-- Australian Dollar Reaches 3-Week High as Retail Sales Advance
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-02-29T03:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/australian-dollar-reaches-3-week-high-as-retail-sales-advance.html
Australia ’s dollar advanced to a
three-week high after government data showed retail sales rose
in January, adding to speculation the  Reserve Bank  will keep the
highest  interest rates  among major developed economies.  The so-called Aussie gained versus most of its 16 major
peers before the  European Central Bank  announces the allotment
of a second round of unlimited three-year funds today in a bid
to shore up the euro region’s banks, increasing the appeal of
riskier assets. New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi,
climbed to its highest in more than five months against the
greenback after home-building approvals jumped last month.  The Australian retail sales figure “bucks the recent trend
towards weakness, which I think is a positive,” said  Todd Elmer , head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy for  Asia 
excluding  Japan  at Citigroup Inc. in Singapore. “That has the
potential to support interest-rate expectations and that only
adds to the attractiveness of the Aussie in a risk-on world.”  Australia’s dollar rose 0.5 percent to $1.0822 at 1:57 p.m.
in Sydney after earlier climbing to $1.0823, the strongest since
Feb. 9. The Aussie added 0.6 percent to 87.15 yen. New Zealand’s
currency advanced 0.7 percent to 84.33 U.S. cents. It earlier
reached 84.39, the highest level since Sept. 5. The kiwi
strengthened 0.7 percent to 67.91 yen.  Australia’s  10-year (GACGB10)  bond yield gained three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 4 percent.  New Zealand ’s two-year
 swap rate , a fixed payment made to receive floating rates, rose
1 1/2 basis points to 3.075 percent.  Retail Sales  Australian  retail sales  climbed 0.3 percent last month from
December, when they fell 0.1 percent, the Bureau of Statistics
said in Sydney today. The result matched the median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey of economists and is the biggest gain
since September.  “A stronger consumer contrasts with the ‘material weakness
in domestic demand’ required for another RBA rate cut,”  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research at TD Securities Inc. in
Singapore, wrote in an e-mailed note today. “Further reports of
strong employment growth and retail sales strength start to tilt
the risks toward the RBA remaining on hold at neutral for
longer.”  Traders are expecting the central bank to reduce borrowing
costs by 50 basis points over the next 12 months, a Credit
Suisse AG  index  based on swaps showed. RBA Governor Glenn Stevens unexpectedly kept the nation’s benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 4.25 percent on Feb. 7 after two consecutive
quarter percentage-point cuts late last year.  ECB Loans  The Australian dollar halted two days of declines against
the yen on speculation financial institutions may ask the ECB
for 470 billion euros ($633 billion) in funds in today’s long-
term refinancing operation, according to the median estimate in
a Bloomberg poll.  “We think the risks are skewed towards a larger take-
up,”said  Joseph Capurso , a currency strategist in Sydney at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , referring to the ECB’s fund
allotment. “What’s likely is you get a knee-jerk reaction by
euro and that might drag Aussie and kiwi higher as well.”  Demand for the kiwi was supported after New Zealand’s home-
building  approvals  rose 8.3 percent in January after gaining a
revised 2.6 percent the previous month, a report showed today.
That’s the fastest pace since October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  