-- Lawyer Stewart Claims Terror Sentence Punishes Free Speech
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-02-29T17:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/lawyer-stewart-claims-terror-sentence-punishes-free-speech.html
Lynne F. Stewart, the lawyer
imprisoned for helping an incarcerated Egyptian cleric pass
messages to his terrorist followers, told a U.S. appeals court
her 10-year sentence is punishment for exercising her free-
speech rights.  The attorney was found guilty by a jury in 2005 of helping
her former client, the blind sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, smuggle
messages out of a high-security prison after he was convicted in
1995 of plotting to blow up the  United Nations , an FBI building,
two tunnels and a bridge in  New York .  Prosecutors complained that Stewart’s initial sentence of
28 months in prison was too lenient. The U.S. Court of Appeals
in Manhattan ordered U.S. District Judge  John Koeltl  to
reconsider the term, questioning whether it “was appropriate
given the magnitude of the offense.” Koeltl later resentenced
Stewart to 10 years.  Herald Price Fahringer, Stewart’s lawyer, told the appeals
court today that the original term was appropriate. Stewart is
being punished for statements she made after she was first
sentenced which are protected by the U.S. Constitution’s First
Amendment, he said.  ‘Do It Again’  Upon leaving the courtroom after she was initially
sentenced in 2006, Stewart told supporters outside the  Manhattan 
Federal Courthouse that she could serve her 28-month sentence
“standing on my head.” She also said in interviews with the
media that she would “do it again” and “not do anything
differently.”  Fahringer told the appeals court today that Koeltl punished
Stewart for the comments to her supporters. Upholding Koeltl’s
amended sentence would result in a “chilling effect” upon free
speech uttered outside the courthouse “for fear that the same
thing could happen to them that happened to Lynne Stewart,”
Fahringer said.  Judge Robert Sack, one of the three judges on the Second
Circuit Court of Appeals who have heard both challenges of the
case, said he was concerned that Stewart’s comments reflected a
lack of remorse.  Fahringer countered that Stewart’s statements were
ambiguous.  “And if it is ambiguous, under the First Amendment, you
have to give the speaker the benefit of the doubt,” he said.  ‘Absolute Immunity’  “I’m not sure that freedom of speech means absolute
immunity for the consequences of what you say,” Sack said.  Stewart, 72, who is currently in the federal prison
hospital in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , was convicted after a nine-month
trial that ended in 2005.  The U.S. presented evidence that included videotapes made
during four prison visits Stewart had with Rahman from 1997 to
2001 in which she smuggled messages after the U.S. had imposed
restrictions on the cleric’s outside communications. The
messages were passed on to a follower who forged an alliance
with al-Qaeda leaders Osama bin Laden and  Ayman al-Zawahiri ,
prosecutors said.  Rahman, who was the spiritual leader of the Islamic Group,
an Egyptian militant organization, also relied on Stewart and
co-defendants to send a message withdrawing his support for the
group’s cease-fire with the Egyptian government, U.S.
authorities contended.  The release of Rahman’s statements to his followers also
violated special U.S. Bureau of Prisons restrictions placed upon
the cleric and his lawyer, prosecutors said. The cleric, 73, is
serving a life sentence in a federal prison hospital in Butner,
 North Carolina .  When Koeltl first sentenced Stewart in 2006, he cited her
“extraordinary personal characteristics,” including her
decades of service as a defense lawyer and her poor health after
a bout with  breast cancer . She was allowed to remain free
pending appeal.  Prosecutors Appeal  After prosecutors appealed the 28-month sentence, the
appeals court agreed in 2010, saying Stewart’s first sentence
didn’t reflect the seriousness of her actions or take into
account that her crimes involved a scheme to provide support to
terrorists.  Koeltl later resentenced Stewart, saying he had failed to
consider the fact that she perjured herself when she testified
in her own defense and hadn’t taken into account that her crimes
were terrorism-related.  The case is U.S. v. Stewart, 06-cr-5015,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 