-- BA-Iberia Profit Doubles in First Year of Merger
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-02-29T10:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/ba-iberia-profit-doubles-in-first-year-of-merger-on-u-s-surge.html
International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA (IAG)  said profit doubled in the first year of its formation
via a merger of British Airways and  Spain ’s Iberia, spurred by
demand for business travel on BA’s North Atlantic routes.  IAG had an operating profit of 485 million euros ($653
million) last year, compared with a pro forma 225 million euros
in 2010, the London-based company said in a statement today.
That surge masked losses at Iberia, which has its hub in  Madrid .  Corporate traffic on money-spinning routes to the U.S. has
held up even as European economies contract, while IAG also
plans to add more services to  emerging markets  from London’s
Heathrow airport after completing the $275 million takeover of
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s BMI unit to add operating slots.  “It’s strong in the right places,  London  and the trans-
Atlantic,” said  Douglas McNeill , a transport analyst at  Charles
Stanley  in London who recommends buying IAG stock. “Iberia is
clearly the less well performing part of the partnership and
there is lots of work that needs to be done.”  IAG rose as much as 4 percent and was trading 2.5 percent
higher at 167.30 pence as of 10:26 a.m. in London, valuing the
company at 3.12 billion pounds ($5 billion).  Iberia Shortfall  The share price has slumped 41 percent since the merger
amid concern about the European debt crisis and fuel expenses.
It’s up 14 percent so far this year, compared with a 17 percent
advance for the seven-member  Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index. (BEUAIRL)   Iberia weighed on earnings, posting an operating loss of 61
million euros for 2011 versus a 592 million-euro profit at BA.  While British Airways is benefiting from a strong Atlantic
market, Iberia is being hurt by the euro-crisis and competition
from discount airlines and high-speed trains, Chief Executive
Officer  Willie Walsh  said, adding that with the Spanish economy
likely to remain weak for years the situation must be addressed.  “Structural costs at Iberia are too high and unacceptable,
and that’s being tackled,” he said on a conference call with
journalists. “The challenges are similar to the ones that we
have faced in the past with BA, so there is nothing new here.”  A new unit, Iberia Express, is slated to begin operations
on March 25, IAG Chairman Antonio Vazquez said last month, with
the aim of lowering the cost base for short-haul flights. The
plan prompted strikes by pilots opposed to revised contracts.  Cool on India  Walsh said he’s focused on completing the BMI purchase, for
which IAG is “confident” of receiving regulatory approval, and
is not in discussions over any other deal. The CEO said there
are currently no prospects of a move in  India , where IAG has
been linked with a bid for a stake in  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)   “We’re not spending time looking at India because the
situation doesn’t warrant any discussion by us at this stage,”
he said. Overseas airlines are currently unable to invest in the
country’s carriers, though a ministerial panel last month
recommended allowing stakes of as much as 49 percent.  IAG is watching the situation at AMR Corp., parent of U.S.
ally  American Airlines , following the company’s filing for
 bankruptcy protection  and reckons its restructuring plan to be
“very credible,” Walsh said, adding that an equity tie-up is not
on the agenda.  “We are not looking to invest in American and they are not
looking for investment,” he said. “But we are working with them
very closely. There are so many possibilities. At this stage we
don’t see anything that is giving us cause for concern.”  Jumbo Rethink  Overall  revenue  increased 10 percent to 16.3 billion euros
last year, including pro forma sales for the period prior to
Jan. 24, when the merger was initiated. Fuel costs jumped 30
percent. Analysts had forecast an operating profit before one-
time items of 494 million euros, based on 11 estimates.  IAG’s passenger traffic advanced 7.2 percent during the
year, with North American routes logging the biggest gain at 12
percent. The increase was accentuated by disruption in 2010
caused by a cabin-crew strike and air-space closures following a
volcanic eruption in Iceland.  While cost and revenue enhancements from the merger reached
74 million euros, more than the 64 million euros targeted, U.K.
airport tax is weighing on margins, Walsh said, and IAG will cut
the number of jobs to be created this year by about 50 percent
and postpone restoring a Boeing Co. 747 jumbo jet to service.  Higher fuel costs, weaker European markets and Spanish
industrial action over the new Iberia operation are likely to
lead to a decline in first-half operating profit, the company
said, with cost pressures easing through the second half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  