-- Banks Buoyed by ECB Cash Boost Sales of Unsecured Debt
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2012-02-29T17:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/banks-buoyed-by-ecb-cash-boost-sales-of-unsecured-debt-1-.html
Banks in  Europe  are boosting sales
of senior unsecured bonds as the  European Central Bank  provides
lenders with more three-year cash than economists predicted.  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS)  in
 Italy  and Brussels-based KBC Bank NV raised a total of 4 billion
euros ($5.4 billion) from unsecured notes today, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banks sold 40.2 billion euros of senior unsecured debt this
year, up from 11.7 billion euros in the second half of 2011 when
sales stalled amid investor concern that banks may be hurt by
losses on sovereign debt, Societe Generale SA data show.
Issuance surged after the ECB started its so-called longer-term
refinancing operation, a program of cheap three-year loans to
boost bank liquidity.  Banks’ “ability to issue at this point is pretty much all
on the back of the improvement in market conditions that’s
arisen since the first LTRO,” said Roger Francis, an analyst at
Mizuho Securities Ltd. in  London .  The ECB allotted 529.5 billion euros to 800 banks in its
second LTRO today, more than the 470 billion euros predicted by
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Lenders tapped the
Frankfurt-based central bank for 489 billion euros in the first
LTRO in December.  UniCredit, KBC  UniCredit sold 1.5 billion euros of five-year bonds that
will be priced to yield 345 basis points more than the benchmark
swap rate. The Milan-based bank’s existing 1.25 billion euros of
senior unsecured notes due 2013 have a 224 basis-point spread,
which has shrunk from as much as 938 in November, Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices show.  Andrea Morawski, a spokesman for UniCredit, didn’t respond
to calls seeking comment.  Siena, Italy-based Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena sold
1.25 billion euros of two-year securities at a spread of 365
basis points.  KBC,  Belgium ’s biggest bank, issued 1.25 billion euros of
two-year senior unsecured bonds through its KBC Ifima NV unit,
according to spokesman Dirk Van Damme in Brussels. The
securities will yield 255 basis points more than swaps, he said.  KBC got “overwhelming demand from a large group of pan-
European investors” for the bonds, Van Damme said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Martin at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  