-- Banks in Europe Tap ECB for More Three-Year Cash Than Economists Estimated
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-02-29T13:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/banks-in-europe-tap-ecb-for-more-three-year-cash-than-economists-estimated.html
The number of financial institutions
flocking to the  European Central Bank ’s three-year loans soared
to 800 and borrowing rose to a record in an operation that may
boost the euro-area economy.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said it will lend banks 529.5
billion euros ($712.2 billion) for 1,092 days, topping the 489
billion euros handed out to 523 institutions in the first three-
year operation in December. Economists predicted an allotment of
470 billion euros in today’s tender, according to the median of
28 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  “The astonishing number this time is the number of banks
participating, which signals that a lot more small banks looked
for the money and it is likely they will pass it on to the
economy,” said  Laurent Fransolet , head of fixed income strategy
at  Barclays Capital  in London. “So the impact may be bigger
than with the first one.”  Bond and equity markets have rallied since the ECB’s first
three-year loan, suggesting banks are investing at least some of
the money in higher yielding assets. That’s helped ease concern
about a credit crunch and won governments time to agree on
measures to contain the sovereign debt crisis. The risk is that
banks become too reliant on ECB money and fail to take the steps
needed to strengthen their balance sheets.  Italian Yields Drop  The euro fell after the ECB announcement to $1.3452 at 1:45
p.m. in  Frankfurt  from $1.3471 beforehand. Italian and Spanish
bonds rose on bets the ECB loans will be used to buy the
nations’ debt. The yield on  Italy ’s two-year note fell 21 basis
points to 2.15 percent.  European bank stocks rose, with the 43-member Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index up 1.3 percent at
12:48 a.m. in London. Bank of Ireland, Italy’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and
 France ’s  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  were among the biggest gainers. The
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  increased 0.4 percent.  Today’s loans are the biggest single refinancing operation
in the ECB’s history and take total three-year lending above 1
trillion euros. The ECB lends banks as much as they want against
eligible collateral. More than a third of the 2,267 financial
institutions registered to borrow from the ECB took part.  “Clearly there is no sign of stigma here,” said Michel Martinez, an economist at  Societe Generale (GLE)  in Paris.  Too Good to Refuse  Banks that shunned the first loans for reputational
considerations may have concluded “it was an offer they
couldn’t refuse after all,” said Martin van Vliet, an economist
at ING Group in Amsterdam. The ECB’s move to encourage take-up
by increasing the pool of collateral banks can use to obtain the
funds also appears to have worked, he said.  Before the December operation, the ECB reduced the rating
threshold for certain asset-backed securities. This month, it
said seven of the 17 national central banks in the euro area
will also accept credit claims, which ECB President  Mario Draghi 
estimated would increase the collateral pool by another 200
billion euros. The aim is to give small and medium-sized
banks greater access to ECB cash.  Economists at Barclays Capital, ING Group and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  estimate about 230 billion euros of today’s
lending is accounted for by existing ECB loans being rolled into
the new facility, meaning about 300 billion euros is new cash.
That exceeds the estimated 193 billion euros of fresh lending in
the first three-year tender.  ‘Stopping The Rot’  The funds cost the average of the ECB’s  benchmark interest
rate  -- currently at a record-low 1 percent -- over the period
of the loans and banks have the option of repaying them after a
year.  The euro-area economy is forecast by the European
Commission to contract 0.3 percent this year as the debt crisis
prompts governments and consumers to cut spending. The ECB’s
loans are intended to relieve liquidity strains and grease the
flow of credit to households and businesses, boosting growth.  “There’s a big difference between stopping the rot and
starting a recovery,” said  Steve Barrow , head of Group-of-10
research at Standard Bank Plc in  London . The loans “might have
done the first, but they won’t do the second,” he said.  Royal Bank of Scotland economist  Nick Matthews  said while
the ECB’s liquidity provision “helps keep tail risks for
European banks at bay in the near term,” the loans “do not
address the underlying solvency issues, and ultimately funding
stresses can quickly return.”  Sarkozy Trade  A byproduct of the loans has been the so-called “Sarkozy
trade,” where yield-hunting banks use some of the cash to buy
sovereign bonds -- an idea first floated by French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy .  Since the first three-year loans were awarded on Dec. 21,
the yield on Spanish two-year bonds has fallen to 2.28 percent
from 3.6 percent and the Italian equivalent has dropped from 5
percent. The Euro Stoxx 50 Index of stocks is up 9 percent this
year.  No further three-year operations are scheduled and ECB
officials have indicated they would be reluctant to offer a
third tranche.  “If number one was a success and number two was a success,
that doesn’t mean there has to be number three,” ECB council
member Ewald Nowotny said on Feb. 27.  In the wake of the first operation, the ECB’s balance sheet
ballooned to a record 2.74 trillion euros. That prompted German
council member Jens Weidmann to warn that the central bank
mustn’t “lose sight of its mandate” to control inflation by
taking on “excessive risks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  