-- National Regulators May Set Capital Levels in EU Basel Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-03-01T11:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/banks-may-face-national-capital-levy-under-eu-s-basel-compromise.html
Bank regulators in European Union
nations may retain powers to set capital levels on  lenders  they
deem too big to fail, in a possible compromise to implement
Basel rules in the region.  Under the plans, regulators would be free to force some or
all lenders in their jurisdiction to hold a “systemic risk
buffer” of as high as 3 percentage points, according to a
document obtained by Bloomberg News. The measures drawn up by
 Denmark , which holds the EU’s rotating presidency, may also
relax a planned liquidity rule forcing banks to hold enough
easy-to-sell assets to survive a 30-day credit squeeze.  The compromise plan follows a clash over proposals by
 Michel Barnier , the bloc’s financial services chief, to fix
banks’ core capital requirements at 7 percent of their risk-
weighted assets, with limited exceptions for national regulators
to set higher thresholds during credit booms. The U.K. and
 Sweden  have said that Barnier’s plans would be an unacceptable
limit on national powers.  Barnier’s plan to give the European Commission powers to
bolster bank-capital requirements during market crises would be
curbed, according to the Danish document, dated Feb. 28.  Still, the commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
would have veto power over decisions to raise the buffer higher
than three percentage points of core capital.  ‘Viable Approach’  The Danish proposals would give extra “flexibility” to
national regulators to go beyond the 7 percent threshold and may
“constitute a viable approach for reaching a compromise,”
according to the document.  The national measures would go beyond a decision by the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  last year to impose
capital surcharges on banks whose failure would roil the global
economy.  The Basel committee brings together regulators from 27
nations including the U.S., U.K. and  China  to coordinate bank
capital rules.  Under the Danish plan, national regulators would be able to
set tougher capital rules on lenders not identified by the Basel
committee as requiring a surcharge.  “Some economies will be prone to different stresses, for
example booms in property prices,”  Richard Reid , research
director for the International Centre for Financial Regulation,
said in an e-mail. “Allowing national regulators to be able to
account for these local, and in some cases regional differences
is essential.”  EU nations and lawmakers in the European Parliament must
agree on Barnier’s draft law before it can enter into force.
Chantal Hughes, Barnier’s spokeswoman, declined to immediately
comment.  Tougher Rules  The Danish plan would also allow national regulators to
impose tougher rules on banks whose methods for measuring the
riskiness of their assets are deemed to be flawed, and to set
limits on lenders’ indebtedness, according to the document.  “There’s not much justification,” for Barnier’s proposal
to cap  capital requirements , said  Karel Lannoo , chief executive
officer of the Centre for European Policy Studies, a Brussels-
based research institute.  “You have to make a distinction between harmonization of
the definition of capital and maximum harmonization of the
capital level,” Lannoo said in a telephone interview. “Like
any market, there should be competition.”  Measuring Asset Risk  Another part of the draft rules would limit the scope for
banks to reduce their capital requirements by being too lax in
the way they calculate the riskiness of their assets.  Until the end of 2014 lenders would be forced to hold
capital equivalent to at least 80 percent of the requirements
they would have faced under the first set of Basel rules dating
from the 1990s. These older rules don’t allow banks to measure
the riskiness of their assets.  In a possible relaxation of a minimum liquidity rule, banks
may be allowed under the Danish plan to use a wider range of
assets than envisaged by the Basel committee.  The European Banking Authority should assess by mid-2013
whether some residential-mortgage backed securities, equities
listed on a recognized exchange and gold should count toward
meeting the so-called liquidity coverage ratio.  The mortgage backed securities should be eligible as
collateral with the lender’s central bank, and should be of
“high”  credit quality , the document says.  The London-based EBA drafts technical rules and coordinates
the work of national regulators in the EU.  The version of the liquidity rule published by the Basel
committee has been criticized by some EU governments and banks
as overly restrictive as it recognizes few assets other than
sovereign debt as highly liquid.  Mortgage Threat  The  Association for Financial Markets in Europe , which
represents international lenders including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA and UBS AG, has said that the measure may make it
harder for lenders to spread their risks. Denmark has warned
that the rule would threaten its mortgage market.  The EU may also delay the implementation of the ratio. The
Basel committee has said the standard should be binding on
lenders from Jan. 1, 2015. The Danish proposals say that the
measure should apply from the end of 2015 “at the latest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  