-- BofA’s Moynihan Sees $4 Billion Quarterly Earnings Improvement, Brown Says
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-02-29T14:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/bank-of-america-s-moynihan-expects-4-billion-near-term-boost-brown-says.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
biggest U.S. lender, can improve results by about $4 billion per
quarter as expenses subside and trading rebounds, said  Thomas Brown , chief executive officer of Second Curve Capital LLC.  Brown said today that he met CEO Brian T. Moynihan
yesterday and asked how the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm
would improve revenue before taxes and loan-loss provisions,
which plunged to $4 billion a quarter from about $10 billion.  “What he said is, in the near term, we’ve got a billion
dollar per quarter  improvement  we can do in the  capital markets 
that was unusually weak in the fourth quarter,” Brown said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with
Betty Liu. Moynihan said the firm can reduce $2 billion per
quarter in costs through his efficiency plan and mortgage
expenses will come down by another $1 billion, Brown said.  Bank of America has surged 46 percent in  New York   trading 
this year after concern over mortgage expenses and stagnant
revenue drove a 58 percent drop in 2011. Brown, a Bloomberg
contributing editor, previously had been critical of Moynihan,
saying last year that he’d “better do better” than peers after
losses. Brown said he took a stake after the stock’s decline
made the valuation attractive.  “We still think he got off to a slow start,” Brown said.
“Remember, he’s 26 months into being CEO of Bank of America. We
would’ve liked to see him attack the management issues faster,
attack their expense structure sooner.”  Moynihan also told Brown that unprofitable assets and
expensive debt would be replaced by better loans and low-cost
retail deposits, improving results, according to the investor.  Bank of America rose 1.4 percent to $8.22 as of 9:53 a.m.
in New York.  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for the company,
confirmed that Brown met with Moynihan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 