-- Banks Vie for $2 Billion in Secretive Equity Derivatives
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-02-29T15:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/banks-vie-for-2-billion-in-secretive-europe-equity-derivatives.html
Investment banks, including  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , are vying for as much as $2 billion
in annual fees in  Europe  arranging customized equity derivatives
-- a secretive market that has defied the downturn.  The business, about as large as underwriting initial public
offerings before the 2008 financial crisis, is now three times
bigger and held steady last year, according to estimates from
six bankers who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. The contracts accounted for almost 10
percent of total investment-banking fees last year in Europe,
the  Middle East  and  Africa  as revenue from dealmaking and
trading sank, data compiled by research firm Freeman & Co. show.  Because the deals, whose value is tied to stocks, are
customized and not traded on exchanges, banks are able to charge
higher fees than for contracts in which customers seek competing
bids. They’re also attractive to lenders because new rules
demanding capital buffers against potential losses aren’t as
punitive as for other derivatives.  “Regulatory change may drive banks back to the business,
not away from it,” said Rachel Lord, Citigroup Inc.’s London-
based global head of corporate equity derivatives. “This is one
part of the investment-banking industry where, despite
compressed margins, the business remains a high priority because
it’s so important to the client base.”  Tailor-Made  Investors such as  Aabar Investments PJSC (AABAR) , the Abu Dhabi-
based sovereign-wealth fund, and  Italy ’s Fondazione Monte dei
Paschi di Siena, owner of the world’s oldest bank, sought
derivatives to protect the value of their holdings or to borrow
against equity stakes.  Banks, including Deutsche Bank Morgan Stanley and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are competing in a region that’s the biggest in
the world by fees, surpassing the U.S. and  Asia . The annual
notional value of tailor-made equity derivatives is typically
more than $50 billion in Europe, the Middle East and Africa,
according to estimates from two of the bankers.  The market is so big and lucrative that even lenders
shrinking their investment-banking arms want to keep the
business going.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , which is
selling or closing brokerage, merger-advisory and IPO-
underwriting units, will continue arranging “profitable”
equity derivatives, the London-based firm said last month.
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  France ’s second-largest bank by assets, will
do the same for corporate clients, said Bertrand Hugonet, a
Paris-based spokesman.  “There’s a lot of competition because there’s been a
history of profitable transactions in this space,” said Samuel Losada, London-based head of European corporate equity
derivatives at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  “You can achieve over the
long run, if risks are managed properly, above-market returns.”  Daimler Derivative  Because the deals are private, there aren’t any publicly
available rankings. Based on bankers’ own assessments and the
sharing of information among them, the business is dominated by
the region’s top equity brokers and better-capitalized firms.
Industry leaders include  Frankfurt  based Deutsche Bank, Morgan
Stanley, Goldman Sachs and Citigroup, all in  New York , and
Zurich-based  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS) , the bankers said.  Deutsche Bank, Morgan Stanley and  Bank of America  arranged
a deal in May that allows  Abu Dhabi ’s Aabar to keep its share
of the potential near-term gains of  Daimler AG (DAI) , even as the
fund sold a 1.25 billion-euro ($1.7 billion) bond exchangeable
for the German automaker’s shares. The sale could cut Aabar’s
Daimler holding to 7.2 percent from 9.1 percent when the bond
matures in 2016.  The deal was the region’s largest ever derivative overlay,
a strategy to hold multiple contracts against the same assets,
linked to an exchangeable bond, according to Losada.  Emerging Markets  “There’s a clear trend that the emerging-market business
is becoming more important,” said Losada. “We saw continuous
activity in this space over the last 12 months.”  Increasing demand from emerging-market clients, such as
Middle Eastern sovereign-wealth funds, has helped buck a
slowdown in Western European deal flows.  “The business can be divided into two parts: the growth
markets, where it’s harder for some to obtain liquidity and
hence is driven by financing, and developed markets, where
clients seek to manage their equity positions,” said Simon Watson, a managing director at Goldman Sachs in  London  who heads
corporate equity derivatives for the region.  While financial firms are cutting employees in other
investment-banking areas, many are looking to add to their
equity-derivatives businesses in the region.  ‘Beefing Up’  Bank of America, based in  Charlotte , North Carolina, may
hire two bankers this year to join the eight it has in London
today, said Losada. Citigroup this month named Sophie Lecoq to
the new position of head of corporate equity derivatives for
Europe, the Middle East and Africa.  Morgan Stanley also may increase its team’s headcount,
according to Daniel Palmer, the firm’s London-based global head
of corporate equity derivatives.  “We expanded our business significantly over the past
three years,” said Palmer. “Our team is now almost complete,
but we might add one or two heads later in the year.”  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , which took over Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s European business in 2008, may add one senior
banker to its 12-person team in London, said Kenneth Brown,
global head of equity capital markets. Lenders are “beefing up
their European teams” of corporate equity derivatives because
Europe is a now a bigger market than the U.S., he said.  ‘Resilient Market’  It’s also a more resilient market, and the teams, which
typically employ about a dozen people, are small compared with
those that manage IPOs, said  Christopher Wheeler , a banking
analyst at  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  in London.  “It’s a business driven by the sweat of the brow,”
Wheeler said.  While banks can earn more arranging tailor-made equity
derivatives than underwriting stock sales, increasing
competition has driven down fees for financing some deals,
including margin loans, or loans from securities firms backed by
clients’ equity holdings used as collateral, the bankers said.  Margin loans are a way for investors who have limited
access to bank funding or capital markets to raise money. At
least 10 firms competed to win a margin loan from an Italian
client this year, compared with three or four that would have
bid for the business a couple of years ago, said one banker, who
declined to be identified citing client confidentiality.  Monte dei Paschi  Fondazione Monte dei Paschi, the biggest investor in  Banca
Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA , last year raised about 600
million euros through loans backed by collateral on its stake in
the lender.  Eleven banks participated in the deal, which helped raise
funds to pay for shares sold by the bank in June, said Gianni
Tiberi, a spokesman for the foundation. The firms, which
included Credit Suisse and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , participated
equally, Tiberi said, declining to elaborate. The loan was
reduced to about 525 million euros as Monte dei Paschi shares
fell, he said.  In one type of equity derivative, known as an equity swap,
one party agrees to receive gains in a stock or basket of stocks
and in return makes interest payments to the other party on the
value of the securities it bet on. Investment banks typically
act as intermediaries between the two parties in the swap.  Basel III  Under the so-called Basel III rules, approved by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision and scheduled to be phased in
through 2019, banks will face a capital charge for potential
mark-to-market losses on over-the-counter derivatives.  While banks largely have managed to keep their structured
equity derivatives out of the regulatory spotlight, they are
under increasing pressure to be more transparent about their
credit-derivatives business.  JPMorgan yesterday disclosed for the first time its revenue
breakdown from trading interest-rate swaps and credit, which
were among the biggest sources of the firm’s trading income.
Goldman Sachs also made an unprecedented disclosure of the gross
value of credit-default swaps the lender bought and sold related
to five European countries.  “Because credit markets tend to be less liquid and
transparent than equities, banks often need proxies to measure
the counterparty risk in credit derivatives, creating data gaps
and higher capital charges,” said Anastasios Zavitsanakis, a
financial-risk consultant at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in
London. “The actual exposure in equities is more measurable in
the short term, and there might be more collateral, reducing
further the capital charges.”  Risk Appetite  Still, banks’ waning risk appetite is spreading the
business around more evenly, said Citigroup’s Lord.  “In the past 10 years, two to three banks would typically
lead the industry, while over the last year it has been much
more broad-based,” Lord said. “Before 2008, banks would have
been happy to be sole books on very large deals. It’s not
feasible to do that now, so there’s a lot more deal-sharing.”  Morgan Stanley has expanded its business by building up a
book of margin loans, said Palmer.  “Some competitors are looking to sell their loans,” he
said. “As banks de-lever, we’ve come across clients coming to
us seeking to raise money on a shareholding, for example.”  Even with the increased competition, Deutsche Bank sees
demand from clients “as high as ever,” said Ian Holt, the
bank’s London-based global head of equity structuring.  ‘Good Business’  “It’s a good business because you are providing bespoke
solutions and providing clients with what they need in and
around complex situations, which makes higher margins naturally
achievable,” said Holt.  Success for most firms this year depends on whether there’s
a pick-up in mergers, bankers said. When companies combine, a
seller left with a minority stake may seek to raise funds
against the holding by buying put options on the shares and
using the options to raise cash. Banks can also use derivatives
to help investors who receive stock protect the value of their
holdings.  “In M&A, you’re the exclusive adviser, and that’s where
you can have prime access to interesting situations before they
become public knowledge,” said Bank of America’s Losada.
“That’s where the real alpha is.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at   jackiem@bloomberg.net  