-- Ben S. Bernanke Semiannual Monetary Policy Report: Text
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 0 8 3 7 2 2 ]   J a m e s   T y s o n   [ ]
-- 2012-02-29T15:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/ben-s-bernanke-semiannual-monetary-policy-report-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of prepared testimony issued by the U.S. Federal Reserve.  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke  Semiannual  Monetary Policy  Report to the Congress Before the
Committee on Financial Services, U.S. House of Representatives,
Washington, D.C.  February 29, 2012  Chairman Bachus, Ranking Member Frank, and other members of the
Committee, I am pleased to present the Federal Reserve’s
semiannual Monetary Policy Report to the Congress. I will begin
with a discussion of current economic conditions and the outlook
and then turn to monetary policy.  The Economic Outlook  The recovery of the U.S. economy continues, but the pace of
expansion has been uneven and modest by historical standards.
After minimal gains in the first half of last year, real gross
domestic product (GDP) increased at a 2-1/4 percent annual rate
in the second half.1 The limited information available for 2012
is consistent with growth proceeding, in coming quarters, at a
pace close to or somewhat above the pace that was registered
during the second half of last year.  We have seen some positive developments in the labor market.
Private payroll employment has increased by 165,000 jobs per
month on average since the middle of last year, and nearly
260,000 new private-sector jobs were added in January. The job
gains in recent months have been relatively widespread across
industries. In the public sector, by contrast, layoffs by state
and local governments have continued. The  unemployment rate 
hovered around 9 percent for much of last year but has moved
down appreciably since September, reaching 8.3 percent in
January. New claims for unemployment insurance benefits have
also moderated.  The decline in the unemployment rate over the past year has been
somewhat more rapid than might have been expected, given that
the economy appears to have been growing during that time frame
at or below its longer-term trend; continued improvement in the
job market is likely to require stronger growth in final demand
and production. Notwithstanding the better recent data, the job
market remains far from normal: The unemployment rate remains
elevated, long-term unemployment is still near record levels,
and the number of persons working part time for economic reasons
is very high. Household spending advanced moderately in the
second half of last year, boosted by a fourth-quarter surge in
motor vehicle purchases that was facilitated by an easing of
constraints on supply related to the earthquake in Japan.
However, the fundamentals that support spending continue to be
weak: Real  household income  and wealth were flat in 2011, and
access to credit remained restricted for many potential
borrowers. Consumer sentiment, which dropped sharply last summer,
has since rebounded but remains relatively low.  In the housing sector, affordability has increased dramatically
as a result of the decline in  house prices  and historically low
 interest rates  on conventional mortgages. Unfortunately, many
potential buyers lack the down payment and credit history
required to qualify for loans; others are reluctant to buy a
house now because of concerns about their income, employment
prospects, and the future path of  home prices . On the supply
side of the market, about 30 percent of recent home sales have
consisted of foreclosed or distressed properties, and home
vacancy rates remain high, putting downward pressure on house
prices. More-positive signs include a pickup in construction in
the multifamily sector and recent increases in homebuilder
sentiment.  Manufacturing production has increased 15 percent since the
trough of the recession and has posted solid gains since the
middle of last year, supported by the recovery in motor vehicle
supply chains and ongoing increases in business investment and
exports. Real business spending for equipment and software rose
at an annual rate of about 12 percent over the second half of
2011, a bit faster than in the first half of the year. But real
export growth, while remaining solid, slowed somewhat over the
same period as foreign economic activity decelerated,
particularly in  Europe .  The members of the Board and the presidents of the  Federal
Reserve  Banks recently projected that economic activity in 2012
will expand at or somewhat above the pace registered in the
second half of last year. Specifically, their projections for
growth in real GDP this year, provided in conjunction with the
January meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee  (FOMC),
have a central tendency of 2.2 to 2.7 percent.3 These forecasts
were considerably lower than the projections they made last June.
A number of factors have played a role in this reassessment.
First, the annual revisions to the national income and product
accounts released last summer indicated that the recovery had
been somewhat slower than previously estimated. In addition,
fiscal and financial strains in Europe have weighed on financial
conditions and global economic growth, and problems in U.S.
housing and mortgage markets have continued to hold down not
only construction and related industries, but also household
wealth and confidence. Looking beyond 2012, FOMC participants
expect that economic activity will pick up gradually as these
headwinds fade, supported by a continuation of the highly
accommodative stance for monetary policy.  With output growth in 2012 projected to remain close to its
longer-run trend, participants did not anticipate further
substantial declines in the unemployment rate over the course of
this year. Looking beyond this year, FOMC participants expect
the unemployment rate to continue to edge down only slowly
toward levels consistent with the Committee’s statutory mandate.
In light of the somewhat different signals received recently
from the labor market than from indicators of final demand and
production, however, it will be especially important to evaluate
incoming information to assess the underlying pace of economic
recovery.  At our January meeting, participants agreed that strains in
global financial markets posed significant downside risks to the
economic outlook. Investors’ concerns about fiscal deficits and
the levels of government debt in a number of European countries
have led to substantial increases in sovereign borrowing costs,
stresses in the European banking system, and associated
reductions in the availability of credit and economic activity
in the euro area. To help prevent strains in Europe from
spilling over to the  U.S. economy , the Federal Reserve in
November agreed to extend and to modify the terms of its swap
lines with other major central banks, and it continues to
monitor the European exposures of U.S. financial institutions.  A number of constructive policy actions have been taken of late
in Europe, including the  European Central Bank ’s program to
extend three-year collateralized loans to European financial
institutions. Most recently, European policymakers agreed on a
new package of measures for  Greece , which combines additional
official-sector loans with a sizable reduction of Greek debt
held by the private sector. However, critical fiscal and
financial challenges remain for the  euro zone , the resolution of
which will require concerted action on the part of European
authorities. Further steps will also be required to boost growth
and competitiveness in a number of countries. We are in frequent
contact with our counterparts in Europe and will continue to
follow the situation closely.  As I discussed in my July testimony, inflation picked up during
the early part of 2011. A surge in the prices of oil and other
commodities, along with supply disruptions associated with the
disaster in  Japan  that put upward pressure on motor vehicle
prices, pushed overall inflation to an annual rate of more than
3 percent over the first half of last year. As we had expected,
however, these factors proved transitory, and inflation
moderated to an annual rate of 1-1/2 percent during the second
half of the year--close to its average pace in the preceding two
years. In the projections made in January, the Committee
anticipated that, over coming quarters, inflation will run at or
below the 2 percent level we judge most consistent with our
statutory mandate. Specifically, the central tendency of
participants’ forecasts for inflation in 2012 ranged from 1.4 to
1.8 percent, about unchanged from the projections made last June.
Looking farther ahead, participants expected the subdued level
of inflation to persist beyond this year. Since these
projections were made, gasoline prices have moved up, primarily
reflecting higher global oil prices--a development that is
likely to push up inflation temporarily while reducing
consumers’ purchasing power. We will continue to monitor energy
markets carefully. Longer-term inflation expectations, as
measured by surveys and financial market indicators, appear
consistent with the view that inflation will remain subdued.  Monetary Policy  Against this backdrop of restrained growth, persistent downside
risks to the outlook for real activity, and moderating inflation,
the Committee took several steps to provide additional monetary
accommodation during the second half of 2011 and early 2012.
These steps included changes to the forward rate guidance
included in the Committee’s post-meeting statements and
adjustments to the Federal Reserve’s holdings of Treasury and
agency securities.  The target range for the federal funds rate remains at 0 to 1/4
percent, and the forward guidance language in the FOMC policy
statement provides an indication of how long the Committee
expects that target range to be appropriate. In August, the
Committee clarified the forward guidance language, noting that
economic conditions--including low rates of resource utilization
and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run--were
likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds
rate at least through the middle of 2013. By providing a longer
time horizon than had previously been expected by the public,
the statement tended to put downward pressure on longer-term
interest rates. At the January 2012 FOMC meeting, the Committee
amended the forward guidance further, extending the horizon over
which it expects economic conditions to warrant exceptionally
low levels of the federal funds rate to at least through late
2014.  In addition to the adjustments made to the forward guidance, the
Committee modified its policies regarding the Federal Reserve’s
holdings of securities. In September, the Committee put in place
a maturity extension program that combines purchases of longer-
term  Treasury securities  with sales of shorter-term Treasury
securities. The objective of this program is to lengthen the
average maturity of our securities holdings without generating a
significant change in the size of our balance sheet.  Removing longer-term securities from the market should put
downward pressure on longer-term interest rates and help make
financial market conditions more supportive of economic growth
than they otherwise would have been. To help support conditions
in mortgage markets, the Committee also decided at its September
meeting to reinvest principal received from its holdings of
agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) in
agency MBS, rather than continuing to reinvest those proceeds in
longer-term Treasury securities as had been the practice since
August 2010. The Committee reviews the size and composition of
its securities holdings regularly and is prepared to adjust
those holdings as appropriate to promote a stronger economic
recovery in the context of  price stability .  Before concluding, I would like to say a few words about the
statement of longer-run goals and policy strategy that the FOMC
issued at the conclusion of its January meeting. The statement
reaffirms our commitment to our statutory objectives, given to
us by the Congress, of price stability and maximum employment.
Its purpose is to provide additional transparency and increase
the effectiveness of monetary policy. The statement does not
imply a change in how the Committee conducts policy.  Transparency is enhanced by providing greater specificity about
our objectives. Because the inflation rate over the longer run
is determined primarily by monetary policy, it is feasible and
appropriate for the Committee to set a numerical goal for that
key variable. The FOMC judges that an inflation rate of 2
percent, as measured by the annual change in the  price index  for
personal consumption expenditures, is most consistent over the
longer run with its statutory mandate. While maximum employment
stands on an equal footing with price stability as an objective
of monetary policy, the maximum level of employment in an
economy is largely determined by nonmonetary factors that affect
the structure and dynamics of the labor market; it is therefore
not feasible for any central bank to specify a fixed goal for
the longer-run level of employment. However, the Committee can
estimate the level of maximum employment and use that estimate
to inform policy decisions. In our most recent projections in
January, for example, FOMC participants’ estimates of the
longer-run, normal rate of unemployment had a central tendency
of 5.2 to 6.0 percent. As I noted a moment ago, the level of
maximum employment in an economy is subject to change; for
instance, it can be affected by shifts in the structure of the
economy and by a range of economic policies. If at some stage
the Committee estimated that the maximum level of employment had
increased, for example, we would adjust monetary policy
accordingly.  The dual objectives of price stability and maximum employment
are generally complementary. Indeed, at present, with the
unemployment rate elevated and the inflation outlook subdued,
the Committee judges that sustaining a highly accommodative
stance for monetary policy is consistent with promoting both
objectives. However, in cases where these objectives are not
complementary, the Committee follows a balanced approach in
promoting them, taking into account the magnitudes of the
deviations of inflation and employment from levels judged to be
consistent with the dual mandate, as well as the potentially
different time horizons over which employment and inflation are
projected to return to such levels.  Thank you. I would be pleased to take your questions.
 