-- Fed Should Apply Its Openness Policy to Rulemaking Process: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-29T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/ben-bernanke-should-apply-his-openness-policy-to-rulemaking-process-view.html
The  Federal Reserve  under Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  has made great strides toward explaining to the
public what central-bank officials are thinking when they make
decisions about  interest rates . If only it would do the same
when writing new financial regulations.  Increased transparency has been one of Bernanke’s primary
goals during his six years at the helm of the Fed. When he
testifies to Congress on Wednesday and Thursday about the
outlook for monetary policy and the economy, he will reap some
of the benefits. Thanks to new  disclosures  of Fed officials’
individual forecasts for interest rates, employment, inflation
and growth, lawmakers and Fed-watchers have a better sense of
what Bernanke might say and how to put it into context. As a
result, he doesn’t have to worry as much about unnecessarily
shocking the markets.  Unfortunately, that same spirit of openness hasn’t reached
other parts of the Fed’s operations. The central bank is working
largely behind closed doors as it crafts the myriad regulations
mandated by the Dodd-Frank financial reform law.  Fed staff members have written, and governors have
approved, proposals for dozens of rules -- such as  capital
requirements  and the Volcker rule, which forbids banks from
making speculative bets with their own money -- that could
affect the livelihoods of millions of people. But the public’s
glimpses of the process have come almost exclusively when Fed
officials appeared for congressional testimony, or in formal Fed
 disclosures  outlining issues that interested parties -- most of
them banks and bank lobbyists -- raised in private meetings with
Fed officials. As a result, uninformed criticism of the rules
has been plentiful, and explanations from the authors scarce.  In the Dark  The pitfalls of making rules in the dark became apparent
this month, when the Fed  disclosed  how individual governors had
voted on the specific rules they had considered since Dodd-Frank
was passed in mid-2010. One governor,  Sarah Bloom Raskin , had
dissented when the Fed approved its proposal for the Volcker
rule -- on the grounds, according to a Fed spokeswoman, that the
rule was too unwieldy and contained exemptions that were written
too broadly. The information would have been useful for people
commenting on the rule, but the disclosure came after the public
comment period had ended.  The lack of transparency is a problem. Interested parties
can’t provide relevant input at the early stages of the process.
Banks and their lobbyists get an advantage because they are able
to secure far more frequent private meetings with Fed officials
than less well-heeled organizations that tend to support
reforms. And opacity weakens final regulations, which won’t have
the credibility and endurance that come from being hashed out in
the public arena.  Other U.S. agencies, such as the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, have
taken a different approach. In most cases, before they propose a
rule, they hold open meetings at which commissioners, and
sometimes other interested parties, pose questions to the staff
members charged with the actual regulation writing. They post
webcasts of the events prominently enough that a layperson can
find them on the agency’s site.  The Fed would do well to follow their example. True,
there’s a risk open meetings could become mere formalities; it’s
up to Bernanke to make sure they are well-run and informative.
They could be inconvenient for far-flung Fed governors, but
videoconferences could solve that problem. Public meetings could
also be embarrassing for staff members who get put on the spot,
but that comes with the territory.  If there’s even a chance the added transparency will lead
to better rules and a more resilient financial system, there’s
no good excuse for avoiding it.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 