-- Bernanke Says Dodd-Frank’s Volcker Rule Won’t Be Ready by July 21 Deadline
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-02-29T18:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/bernanke-says-dodd-frank-s-volcker-rule-won-t-be-ready-by-july-21-deadline.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank and other regulators won’t meet a
July deadline to complete work on the so-called Volcker rule
limiting proprietary trading at banks.  The ban is set to take effect by July 21 even if the rule-
making is still in progress. It would include a two-year
transition period; the Fed could issue one-year implementation
extensions on a case-by-case basis after that.  “I don’t think it will be ready for July,” Bernanke said
in response to a question during testimony today to the House
Financial Services Committee in Washington. “Just a few weeks
ago we closed the comment period, we have about 17,000 comments,
we have a lot of very difficult issues to go through, so I don’t
know the exact date.”  The rule is named for former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , who
championed it as an adviser to President Barack Obama. It seeks
to ban banks from proprietary trading while allowing them to
continue short-term trades for hedging or market-making. It also
would limit banks’ investments in private-equity and hedge
funds.  The proposal is one of the most contentious provisions of
the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, which required the ban on proprietary
trading to take effect by July 21.  Representatives from the world’s largest banks have said
the proposal would increase risk, raise costs for investors and
be vulnerable to legal challenge.  Representative Michael Grimm, a New York Republican, asked
Bernanke if the Fed would re-propose the rule. The Fed chairman
didn’t answer directly.  “We will make sure that firms have an adequate period of
time to adjust their systems and comply with the rule,”
Bernanke said.  Strict Enforcement  “I’m assuming then you are not going to be strictly
enforcing, obviously, a rule that is not in place yet?” Grimm
said.  “Obviously,” Bernanke said.  A 298-page proposal released by U.S. regulators in October
included more than 1,300 questions for affected banks to
consider during the comment period that closed Feb. 13.  Bernanke said the “most difficult distinction” in the
rule is the difference between proprietary trading and market
making. “We will need to develop metrics and other criteria to
distinguish those two types of activities,” Bernanke said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington
at   chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  