-- Bernanke Says Monetary Stance Meets Fed Goals
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-02-29T16:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/bernanke-monetary-stance-meets-fed-goals.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that keeping monetary stimulus is warranted even
as the unemployment rate falls and rising oil prices may cause
inflation to rise temporarily.  “At present, with the unemployment rate elevated and the
inflation outlook subdued, the committee judges that sustaining
a highly accommodative stance for monetary policy is consistent
with promoting both objectives” of the Fed for stable prices
and maximum employment, Bernanke said today in prepared
testimony to the House Financial Services Committee in
Washington.  While describing “positive developments” in the labor
market, Bernanke said “the job market remains far from normal”
during the first day of his semi-annual monetary policy report
to Congress. He said a recent rise in gasoline prices “is
likely to push up inflation temporarily while reducing
consumers’ purchasing power.”  The testimony indicates that recent signs of strength in
the world’s largest economy won’t change the Fed’s view that
“exceptionally low”  interest rates  are likely to be warranted
at least through late 2014. At the same time, Bernanke gave no
signal that additional policy easing is under consideration.  The  unemployment rate  dropped to a three-year low in
January,  consumer confidence  has surged and home sales have
climbed. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  yesterday closed above
13,000 for the first time since 2008. A government report today
showed that the economy expanded at a 3 percent pace in the
fourth quarter, up from an initial estimate of 2.8 percent.  Stocks, Treasuries  Stocks and Treasuries fell as Bernanke’s comments damped
speculation of more easing to bolster the economy. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.4 percent to 1,366.84 at 11:26 a.m.
New York time after rising as much as 0.4 percent. The yield on
the 10-year Treasury note rose to 1.98 percent from 1.94 percent
late yesterday.  “We have seen some positive developments in the labor
market,” Bernanke said. Still, “The job market remains far
from normal: The unemployment rate remains elevated, long-term
unemployment is still near record levels, and the number of
persons working part time for economic reasons is very high.”  Bernanke also said that inflation is likely to “remain
subdued” as the Fed continues to monitor energy markets.
Gasoline prices have climbed 13 percent since the start of the
year to $3.72 a  gallon , according to the American Automobile
Association.  ‘Subdued’ Inflation  “Looking farther ahead, participants expected the subdued
level of inflation to persist beyond this year,” the 58-year-
old Fed chief said, describing the assessment of the  Federal
Open Market Committee  at its January meeting. “Since these
projections were made, gasoline prices have moved up, primarily
reflecting higher global  oil prices  -- a development that is
likely to push up inflation temporarily while reducing
consumers’ purchasing power.”  Bernanke didn’t discuss options for further easing in his
testimony today. When he last appeared before Congress in July,
he outlined steps that the FOMC subsequently took in their
August and September meetings.  “Monetary policy is not a panacea,” he said in response
to a question today. “It can help offset cyclical fluctuations
and financial crises like we’ve had, but the long-term health of
the economy depends mostly on decisions taken by the Congress
and the administration.”  2014 Horizon  The Fed said in January economic conditions may warrant
holding interest rates near zero through at least late 2014,
extending the previous date of mid-2013 adopted in August. In
September, the central bank said it would replace $400 billion
of short-term debt with longer-term debt in a bid to drive down
 interest rates , a move known as Operation Twist.  Fed officials were keeping open the option of a third round
of bond purchases at their January meeting in case the economy
weakens or inflation falls too low. “A few” members of the
Federal Open Market Committee said economic conditions could
warrant buying assets “before long,” and others indicated that
action would become necessary if the “economy lost momentum”
or price gains seemed likely to remain lower than the Fed’s 2
percent goal, according to minutes of the meeting.  Bernanke said the FOMC’s announcement of a 2 percent
inflation target in January was aimed at providing “additional
transparency” and did “not imply a change in how the committee
conducts policy.”  Balanced Approach  The Fed chairman said at times when the inflation and full
employment goals are not complementary, the FOMC “follows a
balanced approach in promoting them.”  He also shed light on the committee’s operational strategy
at such times. He said the balanced approach will take into
account “the magnitudes of the deviations of inflation and
employment from levels judged to be consistent with the dual
mandate, as well as the potentially different time horizons over
which employment and inflation are projected to return to such
levels.”  The committee’s forecasts from January suggest policy
makers see a higher deviation in unemployment than inflation.
Those forecasts showed the committee expects the personal
consumption expenditures price index to be in a range of 1.4 to
2 percent over the next three years, according to central
tendency estimates for 2012 to 2014. That is at or below the
committee’s long-run goal of 2 percent inflation.  Unemployment Forecasts  By contrast, the committee forecasts the unemployment rate,
currently at 8.3 percent, to be in a range 6.7 percent to 7.6
percent in 2014, or as much as 1.6 percentage points above their
longer-run estimate of full employment of 6 percent. That
indicates that the committee sees a higher deviation in
employment from their mandate and a longer period for it to
return to the goal compared with inflation.  Bernanke said today that “in light of the somewhat
different signals received recently from the labor market than
from indicators of final demand and production, however, it will
be especially important to evaluate incoming information to
assess the underlying pace of economic recovery.”  The central bank has kept  interest rates  close to zero
since December 2008 and expanded its balance sheet by buying
$2.3 trillion of assets in two rounds of bond purchases.  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 index has rallied almost 25
percent since reaching the lowest level of 2011 on Oct. 3. The
yield on the 10-year Treasury note was 1.94 percent yesterday,
up from 1.72 percent on Sept. 22.  Stocks have risen as the  U.S. economy  has shown signs of
strengthening this year. Confidence among U.S. consumers climbed
to a 12-month high in February, the New York-based Conference
Board said yesterday. The report reinforced other consumer
sentiment measures such as the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index
which climbed to the highest level in 2012 as of Feb. 19.  Jobs Added  The economy added 243,000 jobs in January and is forecast
to add 213,000 in February, according to the median estimate of
a Bloomberg survey. The unemployment rate dropped to 8.3 percent
last month, the lowest in three years.  “We’ve been encouraged by recent improvements in some key
economic measures and we’re pleased with the pace of our sales
since the holiday season,”  Gregg Steinhafel , the chairman and
chief executive of Minneapolis-based Target Corp., said in a
Feb. 23 earnings call. “Yet, we expect we’ll continue to see
mixed signals in the economy going forward.”  Home prices  have continued to drop even as confidence in
the economy improves. The S&P Case-Shiller index of property
values in 20 U.S. cities fell 4 percent in December from a year
earlier, a report yesterday showed.  Bernanke sent a Fed study on the U.S. housing market to
Congress last month. In a cover letter, he said “restoring the
health of the housing market is a necessary part of a broader
strategy for economic recovery.”  Housing Woes  The Fed chairman said policies that would help resolve the 
housing market could include programs to ease the conversion of 
foreclosed properties to rental properties. Avoiding foreclosure 
through “a broad menu” of loan modifications could also help 
minimize foreclosures, he said.  Republican Senators  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah  and  Bob Corker  of
 Tennessee  rebuked the Fed for overstepping its role by making
policy recommendations to Congress. Bernanke was also criticized
earlier this month by Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey
Republican, for intruding into fiscal policy.  Criticism of Bernanke has also flared in the race for the
Republican nomination for president, with candidates  Mitt Romney 
and  Newt Gingrich  saying they wouldn’t keep Bernanke as Fed
chief. Former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  has said his
policies are “wrong for America.” Bernanke’s four-year term as
chairman expires on Jan. 31, 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  