-- Bernanke Affirms Low-Rate Pledge Without Offering Further Easing Options
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-02-29T20:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/bernanke-affirms-low-rate-pledge-without-offering-further-easing-options.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  affirmed that  interest rates  are likely to stay low at
least through late 2014 without offering any indication that
further monetary easing is under consideration.  “At present, with the unemployment rate elevated and the
inflation outlook subdued, the committee judges that sustaining
a highly accommodative stance for monetary policy is consistent
with promoting both objectives” for stable prices and maximum
employment, Bernanke said today in testimony to the House
Financial Services Committee in Washington.  While describing “positive developments” in the labor
market, Bernanke said it “remains far from normal.” In the
first day of his semiannual monetary policy report to Congress,
he said a recent rise in  gasoline  prices “is likely to push up
inflation temporarily” and reduce consumer purchasing power.  Stocks erased gains as the comments damped speculation of
more easing. When he last appeared before Congress in July,
Bernanke outlined steps that the Federal Open Market Committee
subsequently took in its August and September meetings. Today,
he made no mention of additional options to boost growth in
prepared testimony or answers to lawmakers’ questions.  “ Monetary policy  is not a panacea,” he said in response
to a question. “It can help offset cyclical fluctuations and
financial crises like we’ve had, but the long-term health of the
economy depends mostly on decisions taken by the Congress and
the administration.”  Signs of Strength  At the same time, Bernanke indicated that recent signs of
strength in the world’s largest economy haven’t changed his view
that low rates are needed to keep the two-year expansion going
and further reduce the unemployment rate, which dropped to a
three-year low of 8.3 percent in January.  A government report today showed that the economy expanded
at a 3 percent pace in the fourth quarter, up from an initial
estimate of 2.8 percent. Since then, indicators of  consumer
confidence , home sales and manufacturing have climbed.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its business barometer rose to a 10-month high of 64 from 60.2
in January. Readings above 50 signal expansion and the figure
exceeded all forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Fed’s Beige Book regional business survey, released
today after Bernanke’s testimony, said the economy expanded at a
“modest to moderate pace” in January and early February,
fueled by manufacturers, including automakers. The survey is
published two weeks before the Federal Open Market Committee
meets to set monetary policy.  Stocks, Treasuries  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell 0.1 percent to
1,370.49 at 2:48 p.m. New York time after rising as much as 0.4
percent. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 1.99
percent from 1.94 percent late yesterday.  Bernanke sounded a note of optimism on  Europe , saying that
if its financial system remains stable, a mild slump would
probably not threaten the U.S.  “We do think that if Europe has a mild downturn, which is
what they are currently forecasting, and if the financial
situation remains under control that the effect on the U.S.
might not be terribly serious,” Bernanke said.  U.S. banks “have done a pretty good job” hedging exposure
to sovereign debt and to European banks, he said. Still, there
is “significant risk” of stress and contagion from “a major
financial accident,” he said in response to questions.  ‘Subdued’ Inflation  The outlook for inflation is likely to “remain subdued,”
he said, as the Fed continues to monitor energy markets.
Gasoline prices have climbed 13 percent since the start of the
year to $3.72 a  gallon , according to the American Automobile
Association.  “Participants expected the subdued level of inflation to
persist beyond this year,” the 58-year-old Fed chief said,
describing the assessment of the  Federal Open Market Committee 
at its January meeting. “Since these projections were made,
gasoline prices have moved up, primarily reflecting higher
global  oil prices  -- a development that is likely to push up
inflation temporarily while reducing consumers’ purchasing
power.”  In January, Fed officials were keeping open the option of a
third round of bond purchases in case the economy weakens or
inflation falls too low.  “A few” members of the FOMC said economic conditions
could warrant buying assets “before long,” and others
indicated that action would become necessary if the “economy
lost momentum” or inflation was too low, according to minutes
of the meeting.  More Transparency  Bernanke said the FOMC’s announcement of a 2 percent
inflation target last month was aimed at providing “additional
transparency” and did “not imply a change in how the committee
conducts policy.”  The Fed chairman said at times when the inflation and full
employment goals are not complementary, the FOMC “follows a
balanced approach in promoting them.”  He also shed light on the committee’s operational strategy
at such times. He said the balanced approach will take into
account “the magnitudes of the deviations of inflation and
employment from levels judged to be consistent with the dual
mandate, as well as the potentially different time horizons over
which employment and inflation are projected to return to such
levels.”  The FOMC’s forecasts from January suggest policy makers see
a higher deviation in unemployment than inflation. Those
forecasts showed the panel expects the personal consumption
expenditures price index to be in a range of 1.4 to 2 percent
over the next three years, according to central tendency
estimates for 2012 to 2014. That is at or below the committee’s
long-run goal of 2 percent inflation.  Unemployment Forecasts  By contrast, it forecasts the  unemployment rate  to be in a
range 6.7 percent to 7.6 percent in 2014, or as much as 1.6
percentage points above a longer-run estimate of full employment
of 6 percent. That indicates that policy makers see a higher
deviation in employment from their mandate and a longer period
for it to return to the goal compared with inflation.  The central bank has kept  interest rates  close to zero
since December 2008 and expanded its balance sheet by buying
$2.3 trillion of assets in two rounds of bond purchases.  Signs of economic strength have help send stocks higher.
The S&P 500 index has rallied almost 25 percent since reaching
the lowest level of 2011 on Oct. 3.  Confidence among U.S. consumers climbed to a 12-month high
in February, the New York-based Conference Board said yesterday.
The report reinforced other consumer sentiment measures such as
the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index which climbed to the
highest level in 2012 as of Feb. 19.  “We’ve been encouraged by recent improvements in some key
economic measures and we’re pleased with the pace of our sales
since the holiday season,”  Gregg Steinhafel , the chairman and
chief executive of Minneapolis-based Target Corp., said in a
Feb. 23 earnings call. “Yet, we expect we’ll continue to see
mixed signals in the economy going forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  