-- Best U.S. Auto Sales Streak Since ’08 Helped by Toyota
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-03-01T20:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/best-u-s-auto-sales-streak-since-2008-boosted-by-toyota-cars.html
(Corrects Edmunds.com sales rate estimate in chart in
story published Feb. 29.)  Tamara Darvish can tell the U.S.
auto industry is back by looking out on the lot of one of her
company’s four Toyota dealerships.  Darcars Automotive Group’s Toyota store in Frederick,
 Maryland , took delivery of 200 vehicles from the manufacturer
this month, up from monthly allocations of as few as 80 last
year, after  Japan ’s tsunami limited  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda
Motor Co.’s production and depleted inventories. With supplies
rebounding, industrywide sales accelerated in January to the
best pace since the government’s “cash for clunkers” program
in August 2009.  “February is looking just as good” as January, said
Darvish, whose company’s 34 franchises also include Chrysler
Group LLC, General Motors Co. and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  brands.
“Availability is getting a lot better.”  Light-vehicle sales in February, set for release tomorrow,
may have run at a 14.2 million seasonally adjusted annual  rate ,
the average estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That
pace would match January’s and be the first time the U.S. posted
a 14 million rate in consecutive months since May 2008. The
sales rate was 13.3 million in February 2011.  Six months ago, Darcars’s Toyota dealerships operated with
enough vehicles on the lot to last 25 days, said Darvish, the
group’s vice president. With supply at the Frederick lot now at
a more-normal 65 days, the closely held group’s February sales
will exceed those of August, a typical year’s best month, she
said.  Confidence Rising  Consumers gained confidence in February as the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  exceeded 13,000 for the first time since May
2008 and the  unemployment  rate fell to the lowest in  three
years . The improving economy may have blunted the impact of
rising gasoline prices. The average price for a gallon of
regular unleaded has increased 13 percent this year to  $3.72 (3AGSREG)  as
of Feb. 27, according to AAA, the largest U.S. motoring group.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  sales may rise 9.4 percent, the average of
10 estimates. Pickups may constitute less than 11 percent of
industrywide sales in February, down from more than 13 percent
in December, said  Erich Merkle , the automaker’s sales analyst.
Ford has still increased the average sales price of its vehicles
fleetwide by more than $1,000 from a year earlier, Merkle told
reporters today in Dearborn,  Michigan .  Chrysler, majority-owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , may have the biggest
monthly sales increase among major automakers. Deliveries may
rise 26 percent, the average of 10 estimates.  Sergio Marchionne ,
chief executive officer of Fiat and  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based
Chrysler, said yesterday in an interview in Brussels that the
company expects to “weather even a rising oil situation.”  ‘Best Position’  “The domestic automakers are in the best position they’ve
been in terms of their presence in the small-car segment,”
 Jesse Toprak , an analyst for the auto-pricing website
TrueCar.com, said in a phone interview. “When gas prices rise,
they’re not being pushed to the sideline to watch the Asian
automakers enjoy the resurgence in demand for small cars.”  GM (GM) , which regained global sales leadership last year, may
sell 4.8 percent fewer vehicles this month compared with a year
earlier, the average of 10 analysts’ estimates. Analysts said
the Detroit-based automaker pared incentives from a year ago,
when it outspent the industry average by 45 percent, according
to  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based researcher Autodata Corp.  GM’s average spending on incentives per vehicle may have
dropped by 19 percent in February from a year earlier, according
to  Santa Monica , California-based TrueCar. GM has said it is
trying to increase its profit margins.  Domestic Inventories  The U.S. automakers are counting on demand for new vehicles
to keep improving as their inventories draw more concern from
analysts, including  Chris Ceraso  at Credit Suisse. By the end of
March, GM, Ford and Chrysler may have about 19 percent more car
inventory than what Credit Suisse considers normal, Ceraso said
in a research note dated Feb. 13.  “It looks like the Big 3 have failed to align their car
production with actual demand in the market, which has
decelerated as Japanese-brand car availability improved,”
Ceraso wrote. Models with the most inventories on a days-supply
basis in January included Ford’s Fiesta subcompact at 132 days,
GM’s Chevrolet Malibu sedan at 109 and Chrysler’s 200 sedan at
80, according to Autodata.  Deliveries for Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota in February
may have risen 8.2 percent, while Honda’s may have increased 4.5
percent, the average of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Honda reported a monthly sales increase for January that was its
first since the Tokyo-based automaker’s inventory plunged
following Japan’s earthquake and tsunami in March.  Consumer Reports  The Subaru brand of  Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270) , a Toyota
affiliate, was the top automaker in annual rankings that
 Consumer Reports  magazine released yesterday, with 75 of 100
points based on the scores of its seven U.S. models. Toyota was
third-ranked automaker while having the most models the magazine
recommends buying, with 22 out of 26 tested.  The higher inventory for U.S. automakers is likely to be
soaked up by consumer demand rather than production cuts, said
 Jeff Schuster , senior vice president of forecasting at LMC
Automotive. Vehicle inventory for the industry was 66 days
supply at the beginning of February, from 52 days at the start
of the year, according to the Troy-based researcher.  “We’re now looking at a replenished inventory level, so
supply is starting to get to that stage of needing to be
monitored more closely,” Schuster said in a phone interview.
“It does beg for more active monitoring.”  Volkswagen AG (VOW3) , which is targeting U.S. sales growth of more
than 10 percent this year, may increase combined sales of its
Volkswagen and Audi brand vehicles by 33 percent in February,
the average of three estimates.  Nissan Motor Co. may increase sales 6.1 percent, the
average of seven analysts’ estimates.  Affiliates  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and Kia may combine to sell 19
percent more vehicles than a year earlier, the average of five
analysts’ estimates.  The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from February 2011. Forecasts for the seasonally adjusted
annualized rate, or SAAR, are in millions of light vehicles.  February had 25 selling days, one more than the year-
earlier period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  