-- Billionaire Palmer Has A-League Soccer License Terminated by Lowy-Run Body
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-02-29T06:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/billionaire-palmer-has-a-league-soccer-license-terminated-by-lowy-run-body.html
Football Federation Australia
revoked the A-League soccer license held by Gold Coast United’s
billionaire owner  Clive Palmer , who said he intends to take
legal action against the decision.  Gold Coast, which is last in the 10-team league, was today
issued with a notice of termination following three “clear
breaches” of the club participation agreement, including
“deliberate contravention” of FFA policies and repeated public
statements bringing the league and governing body into
disrepute, FFA Chairman  Frank Lowy  said.  “I’m profoundly disappointed to have had to make this
decision,” Lowy said in a televised news conference in Sydney.
“We have been left with no alternative.”  Palmer, who is one place above Lowy on BRW magazine’s list
of the richest Australians, described the country’s soccer
league as a “joke” and his club as “insignificant” in an
interview this month. In the past two weeks, he appointed a 17-
year-old rookie as captain, fired the head coach and sent the
team out with jerseys bearing the slogan “Freedom of Speech”
in their most-recent match on Feb. 25, an act in direct defiance
of the FFA.  Gold Coast issued a media release earlier today in which
mining magnate Palmer, 57, praised Lowy’s contribution to soccer
in Australia, adding that the  Westfield Group (WDC)  Chairman is “a
great Australian icon.”  BRW in May estimated Palmer’s wealth at A$5.05 billion
($5.4 billion), ahead of Lowy’s A$4.98 billion in its Rich List,
which was topped by mining magnate  Gina Rinehart  with A$10.3
billion.  ‘Ludicrous Decision’  After later being told his club’s license was being
revoked, Palmer  said on Twitter  that he intends to “fight this
ludicrous decision by incompetent FFA in the courts.”  “Frank Lowy is an institution who now belongs in an
institution,” Palmer added on Twitter.  “His opinion,” Lowy, 81, told reporters in response to
Palmer’s comment. “We would have preferred to come to some
solution but we have rock solid legal advice that we are
entitled to do what we are doing.”  Lowy, who took over the running of soccer in  Australia  in
2003 following a government review into the sport’s management,
yesterday described Gold Coast’s efforts to attract crowds and
engage its local community as a “spectacular failure.”  In a later statement today, Palmer called on the government
to investigate the current administration following the FFA’s
decision to terminate the club’s license.  Lowy “has brought the game into disrepute,” Palmer said.
“The sport should not be run by dictators like him.”  Remaining Games  FFA Chief Executive Officer Ben Buckley said that Gold
Coast had repeatedly indicated over the past four weeks that it
wanted to quit the A-League at the end of the season. At the
same time, the club made contradictory statements in the media
and continued to breach FFA policies, he added.  Buckley said the FFA would ask the  Gold Coast  players to
fulfill the club’s remaining four regular-season fixtures and
would pay them for appearing in the games. Gold Coast is
scheduled to play third-place Wellington Phoenix on March 4.  “Our priority is to put a team out on the pitch,” he said
at the news conference. “A team that’s reflective of the Gold
Coast team that we’ve seen this year. They deserve the
opportunity to play out the rest of the season.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  