-- Bill Clinton Says Keystone XL Should Be Built on New Route
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 2012-02-29T20:58:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/bill-clinton-says-keystone-xl-should-be-built-on-alternate-route-embraced.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed $7
billion Keystone XL pipeline should be built using an alternate
route around the environmentally sensitive Sand Hills of
Nebraska, former President Bill Clinton said.  “The extra cost of running it is infinitesimal compared to
the revenues” the pipeline could produce, Clinton said today at
an energy conference in the Washington suburbs. “I think we
should embrace it and develop a stakeholder-driven system of
high standards for doing the work.”  The 1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer) pipeline would carry oil
from Alberta,  Canada , to the U.S. Gulf Coast. It needs the
approval of the State Department, led by Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton , whose husband is the former president, because
it would cross an international border.  President  Barack Obama  in November delayed U.S.
consideration of the pipeline to review an alternate route, a
move opposed by congressional Republicans who say construction
will create jobs. Groups including the Natural Resources Defense
Council and the Sierra Club oppose the pipeline, saying it could
have harmful effects on the environment.  TransCanada yesterday informed the State Department that it
will submit an application for a route from the Canadian border
to Steel City, Nebraska, Hillary Clinton said today.  “We take very seriously the need to increase our supply”
of oil, she said.  Republican Senators  The Republican-led House of Representatives on Feb. 16
passed legislation to force U.S. approval of the Keystone XL
project. Senate Republicans today urged approval of the pipeline
as a way to lower U.S. dependence on oil from the Middle East
and bring down gasoline prices.  The pipeline, which would cut across Montana,  South Dakota ,
 Nebraska , Kansas and Oklahoma to reach Texas refineries, also
would help ship oil produced from the Bakken shale formation in
 North Dakota , Senator John Hoeven, a Republican from the state,
said during a press conference in Washington today.  Hoeven joined Republican Senators Lisa Murkowski of Alaska,
Jeff Sessions of Alabama, John Cornyn of Texas and John Thune of
South Dakota in calling for opening additional federal waters
and the Arctic wildlife refuge for drilling to reduce  price2
volatility.  The average price for regular  gasoline  at the pump has
climbed 11 percent in the past 12 months, to $3.731 yesterday,
according to AAA data. The price has increased for 22 straight
days.  The Republican senators plan to send a letter to President
Obama today listing the steps he can take to curb rising gas
prices, Cornyn said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  