-- Black Keys Bid to Conquer U.S. With Blasting Rock as Tour Opens
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2012-02-29T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/black-keys-bid-to-conquer-u-s-with-blasting-rock-as-tour-opens.html
The Black Keys are back in  North
America  for a tour that should put them into the big time.  The concerts, which start this week, are low on frills.
There are no props or pyrotechnics, no dancers or indulgent
solos. Patrick Carney plays drums. Dan Auerbach sings and plays
the guitar. Sometimes they are joined by a bassist and a
keyboard player. That’s it. Still, their recent European shows
contained plenty of raw rock n’ roll thrills.  The U.S. gigs, including performances at  Madison Square
Garden  with the Arctic Monkeys on March 10 and at Coachella in
April, will push the Black Keys beyond being a well-kept secret
among alternative-rock fans. The  Ohio  duo’s basic garage-rock
aesthetics and constant touring made them the toast of those who
insist on their music being “authentic.” The Keys provide
succor to those bereft by the demise of the White Stripes.  “El Camino,” the Black Keys’ seventh album, was released
in December 2011. Well received, it reached No. 2 in the
Billboard 200, selling more than 200,000 copies in the U.S. in
its first week. It appeared on many critics’ best-of-year lists
and the word spread. Future albums will surely sell more.  The  London  gigs showcased the stripped-down, rough-and-
ready sound with which the Black Keys made its name and the
glorious tune-filled songs, steeped in the traditions of soul,
with which it is gaining its new-found fame.  Stones, Motown  “Howlin’ for You” opens the set with a twang and a tune
that could have been written for the soundtrack of a Tarantino
movie. “Run Right Back,” with its tight, skinny riff, is like
the  Rolling Stones  with endearing insecurities. “Dead And
Gone” grooves with the spirit of Motown, a testament to Carney
and Auerbach’s inspired choice of Gnarls Barkley’s Danger Mouse
as their producer.  Not that The Black Keys match the stage presence of  Michael Jackson  or  Mick Jagger . Carney is scrawny and bespectacled,
sitting above his modest drum kit at the front of the stage.
Auerbach, bearded and wearing nondescript blue jeans and a black
shirt, looks as if he would be incomplete without his guitar.  The music compensates for any visual deficiencies. Were the
old blues myth to be true, Satan would be doing a roaring trade
in Auerbach derivatives. The feedback howl of “Your Touch” is
carved with lust and longing. Lyrics of honest-to-God man-
emotion are delivered with melodic sincerity.  Carney’s meaty drumming can hit like a left hook that
repeatedly lifts you off the floor.  He fared less well as the Keys played to more than 21,000
people across three sold-out nights at Alexandra Palace, London.
The poor sound left too many of his punches pulled.  “Ally Pally” -- an ungainly general-purpose hall on top
of a hard-to-get-to hill in the U.K. capital’s northern suburbs
-- also has a low stage that makes it difficult for many in the
audience to see the performers. It was a hindrance not a
disaster. Even then the shameless howl and stomp of “Lonely
Boy” had the crowd going.  Hopefully, better venues in the U.S. and  Canada  will really
allow the Keys to shine.  Rating: ***.  The Black Keys North American tour starts March 2 in
Cincinnati, Ohio, with dates including  New York  on March 12 and
Coachella on April 13 and 20. The tour moves back to  Europe  in
August, with shows in  Sweden ,  Norway , Finland, Denmark, Austria,
the Netherlands,  Germany  and Ireland.  Information:  http://www.coachella.com/lineup ,
 http://www.theblackkeys.com/   Information:  http://www.theblackkeys.com/shows   (Robert Heller is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Robert Heller  in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 