-- Bloomberg Takes Coalition to Albany to Back Cuomo Pension Plan
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-02-29T21:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/bloomberg-takes-coalition-to-new-york-capital-to-back-cuomo-pension-plan.html
New York City  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  led a group of local officials to Albany today to tell
lawmakers that if they don’t change the state pension system, it
will lead to job cuts.  Bloomberg and a coalition of two dozen local leaders, who
collectively represent 15 million residents, are pushing
legislators to support a plan proposed by Governor  Andrew Cuomo .
The governor wants to raise the  retirement age  to 65 from 62 for
most new workers and allow for a voluntary 401(k)-type
 retirement plan .  Cuomo, 54, says his plan will save the state and local
governments $113 billion over the next 30 years. The proposal
has drawn him into a battle with public-worker unions and
Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli , a fellow Democrat and sole trustee
of the $140.3 billion pension fund.  “This is not anti-union, this is not anti-worker. This is
about job preservation,” Westchester County Executive Rob Astorino said at a press conference. “The only tool we have is
to have less jobs, and we don’t want to do that, because less
jobs means less services.”  Suffolk County, home to  Long Island ’s Hamptons beach
communities, dismissed 50 employees this week and another 678
may lose their jobs in the next four months, County Executive
Steven Bellone said. Others echoed the concern that rising
pension costs will lead to lost services as workers are fired.
Cuomo has said pension costs will consume 35 percent of local-
government budgets by 2015, up from 3 percent in 2001.  Increased Payments  New York’s (STONY1)  retirement fund, the third-biggest U.S. public
pension, had 101.5 percent of the money needed to pay its
obligations in 2010, better than any other state, according to
an annual study by Bloomberg Rankings.  To keep it funded after losses in the financial crisis, the
system has increased payments made by local governments. In
order to smooth the spike in payments, DiNapoli in 2010 offered
municipalities and the state the option of deferring a portion
if public employers pay interest on the difference.  This year, about 165 of the state’s 3,000 local
governments, school districts and agencies borrowed $200 million
through the plan, up from $43.4 million a year earlier,
according to Eric Sumberg, a DiNapoli spokesman.  The local officials pushing pension changes in  Albany 
today, including those who took part in DiNapoli’s program, said
amortizing the payments isn’t good fiscal strategy.  ‘Road to Hell’  “The road to hell is paved in amortizing pensions,” said
Thomas Roach, mayor of  White Plains , a city of 70,000 and the
county seat of Westchester, which borders New York City. “All
you’re doing is taking a current operating cost and pushing it
down the line.”  DiNapoli pushed the amortizing plan at a meeting of the  New
York State Conference of Mayors and Municipal Officials  in
Albany on Feb. 27, saying it has “many advantages from a cash-
flow basis.” Unlike Cuomo’s plan, he said, it gives “you help
right now, not 30 years from now.”  Joining DiNapoli’s plan isn’t an option for  New York  City,
which has separate pensions, though the state sets the policy
guiding the costs. The city paid about $8 billion this year, up
from $1.3 billion in 2002, Bloomberg has said.  “The pension increase is more than a five-fold increase,
amounting to more than the operations of New York City’s police,
fire and sanitation departments combined,” Bloomberg said.
“This is not a problem that affects only the five boroughs of
New York City. It’s not a downstate issue, or an upstate issue.
And it’s not a Republican issue, or a Democratic issue. This is
a New York issue.”  New York’s mayor is the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  