-- Bob Kerrey to Run Again in Nebraska
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-02-29T19:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/bob-kerrey-to-run-again-in-nebraska.html
Democrat  Bob Kerrey , a former
Nebraska senator and governor, said he will run for the state’s
open  U.S. Senate  seat, boosting his party’s chances of winning
it and retaining control of the chamber in this fall’s election.  Kerrey, who has lived in New York City since leaving the
Senate in 2001, reversed his Feb. 7 decision not to run in the
contest to replace retiring Democratic Senator  Ben Nelson .  “Doing things the conventional way has never been my
strong suit,” Kerrey, who made his announcement one day ahead
of the candidate filing deadline, said in a statement. “This
afternoon, I will file to become a candidate for the United
States Senate in  Nebraska .”  Republicans had been favored to pick up the seat because
Democrats were hampered in their candidate recruiting and the
voters in the state have been electing Republicans. Nelson is
now the only Democrat holding statewide elective office in
Nebraska.  Democrats control the U.S. Senate, 53-47, and are defending
23 of the 33 seats on the ballot this year. Nelson’s retirement,
announced in December, made him the seventh incumbent Democrat
to decide not to seek re-election in 2012.  Kerrey made his announcement a day after Republican Olympia Snowe of Maine, a three-term U.S. senator who at times votes
with Democrats, said in a statement that she won’t seek re-
election in November. Her decision, viewed as hampering her
party’s chances to take control of the Senate, came two weeks
before  Maine ’s March 15 filing deadline for candidates. The
primary election in the state will be held June 12.  Left in 2001  Kerrey left the Senate in 2001 after two six-year terms.
His departure made way for Nelson’s rise.  Kerrey’s decision to run raises Democrats’ hopes of keeping
the seat although his push to return to power in  Washington 
won’t be easy, said  Nathan Gonzales , political editor of the
non-partisan Rothenberg Political Report. While Kerrey has name
recognition and an ability to raise funds, he’s running in a
Republican-trending state, Gonzales said.  “He’s still a Democrat in Nebraska, and I don’t think that
puts him in a strong early position,” Gonzales said. He also
said Kerrey’s time living outside the state will leave him open
to claims of being a “carpetbagger.”  “I think Republicans are going to make ‘ New York City ’ Bob
Kerrey’s middle name,” he said.  ‘Loyal’ Obama Supporter  The National Republican Senatorial Committee issued a
statement today saying, “As Nebraskans reacquaint themselves
with Kerrey they will quickly recognize that living in Greenwich
Village for so many years tends to change a person.” The
statement called Kerrey “a loyal supporter of the Obama
agenda.”  Kerrey, 68, served in the Navy SEAL special-forces unit
from 1966 to 1969. He lost part of his right leg during the
 Vietnam War  and was awarded the Medal of Honor. He served as
governor of Nebraska from 1983 to 1987 and was elected to the
Senate a year later.  He unsuccessfully sought the Democratic presidential
nomination in 1992, making a national health insurance overhaul
his central campaign issue. His proposal would have allowed the
government to create a publicly run health system.  In the Senate, he served on the Finance, Agriculture and
Intelligence panels and was co-chair of national commissions
that presented bipartisan plans for overhauling Medicare and
restructuring the  Internal Revenue Service .  New School’s President  After leaving the Senate, Kerrey was president of the New
School, a university in New York City, for nine years. He is now
its president emeritus and also serves on the boards of  Tenet
Healthcare Corp. (THC) ,  Jones Group Inc. (JNY)  and  Scientific Games Corp. (SGMS)   Republicans vying for the Senate seat include Nebraska
Attorney General Jon Bruning; Don Stenberg, the state’s
treasurer and former attorney general; and state Senator Deb Fischer.  Democrats who are candidates for Nelson’s seat include
Chuck Hassebrook, executive director of the Center for Rural
Affairs; Steven Lustgarten, a video producer; and Larry Marvin,
who lost a Senate bid in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  