-- BOE’s Weale Says There May Not Be Case for Further U.K. Stimulus This May
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-03-01T08:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/boe-s-weale-says-there-may-not-be-case-for-further-u-k-stimulus-this-may.html
Bank of England  policy maker  Martin Weale  said that U.K. inflation may prove more persistent than
expected, making it unlikely the economy will require further
stimulus once the current round of bond purchases ends.  Higher  oil prices  and potential wage pressures as the
economy recovers “suggest a risk that there may be more
persistence to inflation than one might expect at a time of
rising unemployment and weak demand,” Weale said in a speech in
London late yesterday. “I do not think there is likely to be a
further case once our current program is complete” in early May
for more bond purchases.  Weale’s comments are the most explicit indication by an
official that the Monetary Policy Committee’s 50 billion-pound
($80 billion) increase in stimulus in February may be the last.
Still, Governor  Mervyn King  said yesterday that any further
loosening of policy will depend on how the economy performs.  Speaking at an event at Cass Business School, Weale said
that consumption “appears to be growing again” and
“indicators of the state of the economy this year have been
more positive for overall gross domestic product growth.”  Still, “we need to remind ourselves that the signals they
provide are imprecise and that a few swallows do not make a
summer,” he said. Data will be “harder to interpret” this
year due to the extra public holiday for the Queen’s diamond
jubilee, he noted.  Fisher View  The pound was little changed against the dollar today,
trading at $1.5923 as of 8:43 a.m. in  London . U.K. bonds rose,
pushing the yield on the 10-year gilt down 1 basis point to 2.16
percent. It fell to 1.917 percent on Jan. 18, the lowest since
Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1989.  Policy maker  Paul Fisher  said on Feb. 26 that the risk of
the U.K. slipping into another recession may have been avoided,
and if a positive trend continues, “that would put more weight
onto the argument for stopping rather than carrying on” with
more bond purchases. Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said Feb. 28
that policy makers must be “alert to the need” to gradually
withdraw stimulus when the economy strengthens.  The MPC voted to increase stimulus to 325 billion pounds on
Feb. 9 after the economy shrank 0.2 percent in the fourth
quarter. David Miles and  Adam Posen  were defeated in their call
for a 75 billion-pound increase at the meeting. The new round of
purchases is scheduled to be completed in May.  U.K.  inflation  slowed to 3.6 percent in January, the least
in 14 months. Weale said that while the rate has “fallen
sharply” as a sales-tax increase in January 2011 and “some of
the fuel-price increases” have dropped out of the inflation
calculation, it remains above central bank’s 2 percent target.  ‘Particular Worry’  “The price of oil is a particular worry,” he said.
“Further ahead, there remains a risk that an eventual return to
more normal economic conditions will be associated with
increased wage pressures. Judgements about the magnitude of this
are inevitably uncertain and it is hard to avoid the sense of an
additional upside risk.”  A report today showed U.K. pay growth accelerated in the
quarter through January. The median wage deal increased to 3
percent from 2.5 percent in the previous three-month period,
Incomes Data Services said.  Weale also said that higher-than-forecast inflation may
prompt the central bank to increase rates earlier than the
market currently predicts. In response to questions at the
event, he said policy makers could choose to raise their
 benchmark rate  before selling the bonds held as part of their
stimulus program.  “The yield curve suggests that an increase in  bank rate  is
not fully priced in until mid-2014,” Weale said in the speech.
“If the very real risks I see about inflation do materialize,
then it is perfectly possible that the first rise will come
earlier.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  