-- Bombardier’s Shrinking Jet Backlog Adds Urgency to Orders
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-02-29T21:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/bombardier-shrinking-backlog-adds-urgency-to-finding-jet-buyers.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , which sold more
small commercial planes in this year’s first two months than all
of 2011, must step up the pace of orders even more to keep from
cutting production a second straight year, analysts said.  The planemaker garnered only four orders from February
through December for regional jets, planes of 50 to 100 seats
that were a mainstay of its aerospace unit a decade ago. Sales
of seven turboprop planes in the same period marked the worst
year since 2003.  “The new orders they’ve announced just aren’t enough,”
said Denis Durand, a partner at Montreal-based Jarislowsky
Fraser Ltd., which has about C$39 billion ($39.5 billion) in
assets under management. “Regional jets are a mature product,
and their backlog for turboprops is quite low.”  Bombardier can’t focus exclusively on that. Also demanding
executives’ attention is a 2013 target for the commercial debut
of the $3.5 billion CSeries jetliner, the largest plane the
Montreal-based company has ever built. Chief Executive Officer
Pierre Beaudoin has said he expects the CSeries to be a key
contributor in almost doubling revenue in the next decade.  In the meantime, the maker of the CRJ900 and CRJ1000
aircraft must keep small commercial-plane production humming.
Executives may face questions from analysts and investors about
their strategy for accomplishing that when Bombardier reports
fourth-quarter earnings tomorrow.  Competitors’ Orders  As of Oct. 31, the company had 81 regional-jet and
turboprop orders in its backlog. That’s the lowest in at least
11 years, based on quarterly filings by the company, which
switched to calendar-year reporting in 2011 from a fiscal year
that ran from February through January.  Bombardier fell  1.7 percent to C$4.75 at 4 p.m. in Toronto.
Before today, the shares climbed 19 percent this year.  The dwindling orders at Bombardier’s aerospace unit
contrast with the performance of its two biggest competitors.
 Embraer SA (EMBR3) , Bombardier’s chief rival in the regional-jet
business, booked 124 orders last year, according to a regulatory
filing.  Avions de Transport Regional, the turboprop-plane venture
of European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. and  Finmeccanica
SpA (FNC) , won orders for 157 turboprop planes last year. That’s the
highest intake in the 30-year history of ATR, as the company is
known.  “There’s no question that Bombardier slipped in market
share both in terms of regionals and turboprops,” said Tom Astle, an analyst at Byron Capital Markets Ltd. in Toronto.
Bombardier’s commercial aircraft unit “soaks up a lot of cash.
It’s hard to find much value in it until the CSeries starts
flying.”  Positive Indicators  With 52 firm orders as of Oct. 31, Bombardier’s regional-
jet backlog represents about 12 months of production -- short of
the company’s 18- to 21-month target. The turboprop backlog,
with 29 orders, is even smaller, amounting to six months of
production.  While Bombardier cut output of its CRJ regional jets amid
slowing economic growth last year, Beaudoin said this month that
the company has no plans to do so again. Recent sales are
positive indicators, he said.  Carriers including PT Garuda  Indonesia , Ethiopian Airlines
and  Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK) ’s Horizon Air booked firm orders this
month for six Bombardier 100-seat jets and seven turboprops.
Garuda, Indonesia’s listed carrier, also said it plans to buy
another 12 jets from Nordic Aviation Capital, a leasing company.  Slowdown Not Foreseen  “I don’t foresee a slowdown in the CRJ at this point,”
Beaudoin said after a speech in  New York  Feb. 16. “We just
announced Garuda. Just there, that’s a nice order. There’s more
to come so I don’t see that we need to slow that down. Last year
was a slow point in terms of regional jets but I look at the
projects in front of us. I’m very positive on what’s coming.”  The Garuda and Ethiopian orders show that Bombardier’s
efforts to address its main weakness -- a lack of focus on
 emerging markets  -- are starting to bear fruit, said analysts
such as Astle and Chris Murray at Toronto-based PI Financial
Corp.  The company doubled its commercial-aircraft sales force in
the past year, with all of the new hires in emerging markets,
 Guy Hachey , who runs Bombardier’s aerospace unit, told investors
in New York on Dec. 6. Bombardier said Feb. 14  it opened a
sales and marketing office in  Singapore .  ‘Historical Markets’  About 4,000 aircraft in the 20- to 149-seat range will be
delivered in the the Asia-Pacific region including  China  in the
next 20 years, Bombardier has forecast.  “ North America  and  Europe  have always been their
historical markets,” Murray at PI Financial said in a telephone
interview. “They’ve never really had a sales and marketing
department in emerging markets, but they are taking steps to
address that.”  Bombardier isn’t neglecting opportunities closer to home
either, such as a plane-replacement program at SkyWest Inc., the
company’s largest customer.  Bombardier “is well positioned given its solid
relationship with SkyWest,” Benoit Poirier, an analyst with
Desjardins Securities in Montreal, said in a Feb. 15 note. The
 St. George , Utah-based carrier’s order is a “potentially
large” one that may be announced in the next 12 to 24 months,
Hachey said in December.  Bombardier and ATR are both vying for an order of about 40
turboprops from Calgary-based  WestJet Airlines Ltd. (WJA) , which plans
to start a short-haul unit as soon as next year.  New WestJet Unit  The WestJet deal may be worth C$800 million to C$1 billion,
said PI Financial’s Murray. He said Bombardier probably will win
the contract because WestJet executives such as CEO Gregg Saretsky are more familiar with the Canadian company’s planes.
Saretsky previously worked at Alaska Air, which operates a fleet
of Bombardier turboprops.  WestJet “is a critical order for Bombardier,” Cameron
Doerksen, a transportation analyst at National Bank in Montreal,
said in a telephone interview. “Not only is it a large-scale
order that would clearly help their delivery schedule as we look
ahead to 2013 and beyond, but it’s a high-profile order as well.
From that point of view, it’s important.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  