-- Both Parties Weigh Political Gain From Senate Birth-Control Vote
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-02-29T19:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/both-parties-weigh-political-gain-from-senate-birth-control-vote.html
Democrats say this week’s  U.S.
Senate  debate on birth control will help their candidates among
women and independents in the November election. Republicans
call it an opportunity to rally religious voters.  The Democratic-controlled Senate plans to vote tomorrow on
a Republican proposal to let insurance plans and employers
refuse to cover health services that violate their religious
beliefs. The measure offered by Senator  Roy Blunt  of Missouri
would cancel a rule from President Barack Obama’s administration
requiring health insurers to cover contraception without charge
for insured employees of religiously affiliated institutions.  Democrats cast the measure as the latest example of a
Republican attack on women’s access to health care. Republicans,
outraged over the administration’s rule, say Blunt’s proposal is
needed to protect religious freedom and rights of conscience.  The Senate vote will be “very helpful” to Democrats in
November, Senator  Richard Durbin  of Illinois, the Senate’s
second-ranking Democrat, told reporters. “Ours is a mainstream
position shared by not only Democrats but many independents.”  A United Technologies/National Journal Congressional
Connection poll conducted Feb. 23-26 showed that 49 percent of
adults polled support the Obama administration policy, while 40
percent oppose it. Among women, 53 percent backed the
administration and 36 percent were against it.  Romney and Santorum  Republican presidential front-runners Mitt Romney of
Massachusetts and Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania also have
accused the Obama administration of violating religious liberty.  If the rule isn’t overturned, “it is going to markedly
increase turnout” among religious voters for Republican
candidates in November, Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma
Republican, said today in an interview.  The administration initially issued a rule that included
religious-affiliated universities and hospitals among employers
required to provide coverage for contraception. Houses of
worship were exempt.  Republicans in Congress and officials within the Catholic
Church reacted with outrage. Catholic doctrine forbids the use
of artificial  birth control , and church leaders said its
affiliated hospitals and colleges shouldn’t have to comply.  On Feb. 10, Obama announced a compromise requiring
insurers, and not religious-affiliated colleges and
universities, to finance contraceptives for employees of those
institutions.  In a letter to fellow Republican senators yesterday, Blunt
called the policy “an egregious violation of religious
freedom” guaranteed under the Constitution’s First Amendment.  McConnell, Nelson  Blunt’s proposal, which he offered as an amendment to a
Senate highway bill, S. 1813, has 23 co-sponsors, including
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican.
Nebraska’s  Ben Nelson , who is retiring after this term, is the
lone Democratic co-sponsor.  Democratic Senator Chuck Schumer of  New York  said today
that “this measure would force women to surrender control of
their own health decisions to their bosses.” He accused
Republicans of trying to take birth control away from women.  At a House Judiciary Committee hearing yesterday, Reverend
William Lori, testifying on behalf of the U.S. Conference of
Catholic Bishops, called the administration’s rule “a clear
violation of religious freedom and a direct attack on the
personally held views of many Americans.”  Pennsylvania’s Robert Casey, one of 15 Catholic Democrats
in the Senate, said yesterday in an interview that he hadn’t
decided how he will vote on the matter. Casey, who is seeking a
second term this year, said he wants to guard religious liberty
though he also wants to protect “folks that should have the
right to expect that they can get coverage for contraception.”  Another Catholic Democrat facing a re-election fight this
year, Senator  Claire McCaskill  of  Missouri , has criticized
Blunt’s amendment.  Massachusetts Senator  Scott Brown , a Republican who
supports Blunt’s amendment, is being challenged in November by
Democrat Elizabeth Warren, who opposes it. Brown drew criticism
this week from former Democratic Representative  Patrick Kennedy 
of Rhode Island, son of the late Senator  Edward Kennedy , for
suggesting in a radio ad that the late senator would have
supported Blunt’s amendment. Patrick Kennedy called on Brown to
stop running the ad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  