-- Brazil Futures Yields Fall for Second Day on Rate-Cut Bets
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-02-29T21:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/brazil-futures-yields-fall-for-second-day-on-rate-cut-bets.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts fell for a second day amid speculation record
cash loans to euro-area lenders from the  European Central Bank 
will bolster policy makers’ resolve to lower  interest rates .  The yield on the contract due in January 2014 fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 9.73 percent. The
real dropped the most in more than two months, falling 1.3
percent to 1.7174 per  U.S. dollar , from 1.6958 yesterday,
following a report the government may implement new measures to
stem the currency’s gains.  The ECB said today it will lend 800 financial institutions
529.5 billion euros ($705.7 billion), almost double the median
amount estimated by 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
cash will increase demand for higher-yielding Brazilian assets,
bolstering the central bank’s goal of cutting borrowing costs to
diminish speculative inflows lured by the highest real rates
within the Group of 20 nations, said Maristella Ansanelli, chief
economist at Banco Fibra SA.  Central bank President Alexandre “Tombini was very clear
yesterday in highlighting the question of liquidity and lower
rates abroad,” Ansanelli said by phone from Sao Paulo. “This
increases the pressure for the central bank to lower borrowing
costs.”  ‘Expansionary Policy’  Policy makers in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan  are adopting an
“expansionary policy” to shore up economic growth in a move
that is causing a jump in capital inflows to  emerging markets ,
Tombini said yesterday during Senate testimony in Brasilia.  Brazil’s real extended losses today after a government
official told Bloomberg News that Brazil is considering new
measures to stem the real’s 8.7 percent gain this year.  The official, who asked not to be identified because a
final decision hasn’t been taken, declined to give details on
the measures.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has repeatedly pledged to
take all necessary steps to prevent the  exchange rate  from
hurting local manufacturers.  The central bank auctioned 30,500 currency swap contracts
worth the equivalent of about $1.5 billion, according to a
statement published on the central bank’s Sisbacen system. The
bank planned to auction as many as 40,000 contracts.  Brazil ’s central bank said it also bought dollars in the
 spot market  at an auction today for 1.7032 reais each, according
to a statement.  The bank sold 3,500 reverse currency swap contracts on Feb.
23. It bought dollars in the spot market on Feb. 22.  Brazilian policy makers are seeking to curb gains in the
real in a bid to protect exporters and ensure economic growth of
at least 4 percent this year.  Cash Loans  Dollar inflows from companies and banks borrowing abroad
and the ECB’s record amount of cash loans to euro-area banks
today pushed the real below the 1.70 level, spurring the central
bank to intervene, said Jorge Lima, a financial consultant at
currency brokerage Previbank DTVM.  “The entry of funds is still very strong, and the bank is
trying to soften the dollar’s fall,” Lima said in a phone
interview from  Sao Paulo . “It’s acting so that the move won’t
be so strong and so fast, but the tendency is that the dollar
weakening will continue.”  Brazil posted its second-widest  budget surplus  before
interest payments on record, as the government tries to rein in
spending to allow for further cuts in the benchmark lending
rate.  The federal and local governments, including state
companies, had a primary surplus of 26 billion reais ($15.1
billion), the central bank said today in a report distributed in
Brasilia. The number is the widest since September 2010, when
Brazil posted a 28.2 billion reais surplus. The forecast was for
a 22.4 billion reais surplus, according to the median estimate
of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  