-- Brazil Government Said to Consider Currency Measures to Stem Gains in Real
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2012-02-29T16:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/brazil-government-said-to-consider-currency-measures-to-stem-gains-in-real.html
Brazil  is considering measures to
stem gains in the real, the world’s second best performing major
currency this year, a government official familiar with internal
discussions said. The real extended losses.  The real dropped 1.3 percent to 1.7177 per  U.S. dollar  at
12:56 p.m. in Sao Paulo, from 1.6958 yesterday. The currency
earlier gained as much as 0.4 percent to 1.6890, the strongest
since level Oct. 31. The government official, who asked not to
be identified because a final decision hasn’t been taken,
declined to provide details.  Emerging markets are receiving large amounts of foreign
capital as policy makers in the U.S., Europe and Japan adopt
“expansionary policy” to shore up economic growth, Brazilian
central bank President Alexandre Tombini said yesterday. Brazil
resumed efforts to rein in currency gains earlier this month,
with the central bank buying dollars in the forward market.  “The government already said it will protect itself from
the currency war,” Alfredo Barbutti, an economist at Liquidez
DTVM Ltda, said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo . “It’s
protecting itself from the consequences of the monetary easing
that is being carried out by the world’s four most important
central banks -- U.S, Europe, Japan and U.K.”  Capital Inflows  Since the beginning of the year, investors and exporters
brought into Brazil $12.5 billion, compared with an outflow of
$1.9 billion in December.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has repeatedly pledged to
take all necessary steps to prevent the  exchange rate  from
hurting local manufacturers. Last year, Mantega introduced a tax
on currency derivatives, and in 2010 he raised taxes on foreign
investment in fixed income.  The Finance Ministry declined to comment, according to its
press office in Brasilia.  The central bank resumed intervention this year with a Feb.
3 auction to buy dollars for reais at a future date. The central
bank has also been buying dollars in the  spot market , a policy
that had been abandoned in September. The bank also auctioned
currency swaps today.  The Brazilian real has gained 8.65 percent this year, the
second-best performer among the 16 most-traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The  Mexican peso  gained 8.69 percent in
the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  