-- BSkyB, RTL Group Face EU Antitrust Complaint on TV Rights
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-02-29T16:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/bskyb-rtl-sat-1-face-eu-antitrust-complaint-on-tv-music-rights.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,
 ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG (PSM)  and Bertelsmann AG’s RTL Group SA are
among broadcasters named in an antitrust complaint to the
European Commission over music publishing rights.  The European Composer and Songwriter Alliance accused
broadcasters of coercing composers to cede publishing rights as
a precondition for contracts to write music for television, the
group told reporters in Brussels today. It said the complaint
was filed last month.  Composers can lose as much as 80 percent of potential
royalties for music used in television programs when they are
told to assign copyright to a publishing company owned by or
selected by a television company, said Dutch composer Johan van
der Voet. Broadcasters and production companies collude on the
practice which “has been exploding” over the past decade, he
said.  “As freelance workers often obliged to conduct their own
contractual negotiations, composers are ill-equipped to defend
themselves against the powerful bodies upon whom they rely for
their work,” the composers’ group said in a statement.  Julian Geist, a spokesman for Unterfoerhring, Germany-based
ProSiebenSat.1, said the complaint is “not justified” because
the company pays to use a large number of compositions in its
television programs that it doesn’t hold the rights to.  Berlusconi’s Mediaset  “Obviously we do not only work with composers if they cede
their rights to us,” Geist said in an e-mail.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the Brussels-based
commission, declined to comment beyond confirming receipt of the
complaint.  The complaint targets Silvio Berlusconi’s  Mediaset SpA (MS) ,  ITV
Plc (ITV)  and several German and Dutch production companies. It also
cites public-service broadcasters the British Broadcasting
Corp.,  France ’s TF1,  Germany ’s ZDF and ARD, the Netherlands’ NTR
and  Italy ’s RAI Radiotelevisione Italiana SpA.  Arthur Schuitemaker, NTR’s head of marketing and
communications, declined to comment on the details of the
complaint. Mediaset and the BBC also declined to comment.  BSkyB, RTL, ITV and RAI didn’t immediately respond to e-
mails on the matter. TF1, ZDF and ARD didn’t respond to calls
and e-mails seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 