-- Buffett Plans More Solar Bonds After Oversubscribed Deal
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-03-01T16:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/buffett-plans-more-solar-bonds-after-oversubscribed-topaz-deal.html
Warren Buffett ’s MidAmerican Energy
Holdings Co. is planning a second round of bonds to finance its
$2.4 billion Topaz Solar Farm in  California  after investors
sought more of the debt than was offered in the first public
issuance for a U.S. photovoltaic power project.  The first Topaz bond offering, for $850 million, was
oversubscribed by more than $400 million.  Fitch Ratings , which
gave the deal its lowest investment-grade rating of BBB-, said
the second tranche will probably cover the balance of the $1.265
billion in debt MidAmerican needs to complete the 550-megawatt
project.  The demand shows that renewable-energy projects, which
provide steady revenue from long-term contracts to sell power to
utilities, are becoming more appealing to investors, said Chris
Yonan, a project finance director at  Barclays Capital , which led
a group of investment banks in underwriting the debt.  “The Topaz bond illustrates the deep and attractive source
of financing available in the  bond market  to fund the
construction of renewable-energy projects,” Yonan said in an
interview yesterday. “There are a lot of takeaways here for
wind and other segments of the renewable-energy market. It’s our
hope that more and more of these deals get done.”  MidAmerican, a unit of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK) , has been
expanding its investments in renewable energy as it adds to its
portfolio of coal and natural gas. The company created a
business unit in January to support investments in wind,
geothermal, solar and hydroelectric projects.  Additional Notes  Ann Thelen , a spokeswoman for MidAmerican, said the company
doesn’t discuss the details of its financing strategy. The
company said “Topaz expects to issue approximately $430 million
of additional senior secured notes” in its annual report this
week.  “Demand was definitely oversubscribed, which is why they
bumped up the amount to $850 million,” said Joseph Salvatore,
an energy analyst with Bloomberg New Energy Finance. “They’re
due to offer another issue soon that will cover the rest of the
debt portion.” The Topaz bond offering was originally planned
for $700 million.  Bond Ratings  The Topaz bonds were the largest for a renewable-energy
project without a U.S. government guarantee and the first to be
rated by the three top ratings companies, according to New
Energy Finance. The notes are rated Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service, its lowest investment grade, and  Standard & Poor’s 
assigned the debt an equivalent BBB-, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “These types of bonds are attractive because of the yield
and because of the long-dated liability, which matches the
duration of the portfolios of insurance companies and pension
funds,” Salvatore said today. Fixed-income investors have faced
pressure as low  interest rates  reduce returns on bonds.  Topaz Solar Farms LLC on Feb. 16 issued $850 million of
5.75 percent, unsecured debt due in September 2039 that priced
to yield 379.7 basis points, or 3.797 percentage points, more
than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The rate on the 27.5-year notes is lower than the 5.875
percent coupons that  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America Corp. and New York-based Citigroup Inc. got on 30-year
bond offerings this year.  The average yield on Feb. 16 for BBB rated debt maturing in
more than 15 years was 5.54 percent and has declined to 5.38
percent as of Feb. 28, the lowest in data going back to June
1998, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Two Solar Purchases  MidAmerican agreed in December to buy the Topaz project
from Tempe, Ariz.-based  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , which is supplying the
solar panels. Later that month the Des Moines, Iowa-based
utility holding company agreed to take a 49 percent stake in  NRG
Energy Inc. (NRG) ’s $1.8 billion Agua Caliente solar project in
Arizona.  MidAmerican has become the largest generator of  wind energy 
among regulated U.S. utilities by investing or committing $6
billion to the renewable power source.  “We can make this sort of investment because MidAmerican
retains all of its earnings, unlike other utilities that
generally pay out most of what they earn,” Buffett said in his
annual  letter  to Berkshire shareholders, posted on the company’s
website Feb. 25. “Many more wind and solar projects will almost
certainly follow.”  MidAmerican sells electricity to about 2.5 million
customers in the U.S. and is the largest supplier in  Iowa ,  Utah 
and  Wyoming , according to the letter. The Berkshire unit also
transports about 8 percent of the country’s natural gas through
its network of pipelines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  