-- Bulgarian Premier Orders Ministers to Return Bonus Payments
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-02-29T15:47:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/bulgarian-premier-orders-ministers-to-return-bonus-payments.html
Bulgarian Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov  ordered his ministers to return all bonus payments they
have received since taking office in 2009 or be fired, in a move
that follows criticism from opposition politicians.  All Cabinet ministers and their deputies must return the
bonus payments or transfer them for charity by March 2 or they
will be dismissed, Borissov told reporters in Sofia today. The
motion came after the opposition Movement for Rights and
Freedoms requested Borissov to declare the total amount of
bonuses paid out by all government institutions.  “I plan to declare on Friday that there are no bonus
payments disbursed by the Cabinet,” Borissov said. “Anyone who
doesn’t comply with that, will no longer be part of the
Cabinet.”  Bulgaria  weathered the global crisis without an
international bailout. The European Union’s poorest nation in
terms of per-capita economic output wants to narrow this year’s
budget deficit to 1.35 percent of gross domestic product to
contain the effect of the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Borissov kept taxes unchanged at the lowest level in the
27-nation bloc and froze public-sector wages in 2010, which
ministers and heads of state agencies circumvented by
distributing end-year bonuses to their employees. The bonuses
ranged from one to more than 20 monthly salaries.  The manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, Nely
Nesheva, and the head of the National Registry Office, Violeta
Nikolova, were forced to resign earlier this month after paying
out bonuses to themselves and their deputies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  