-- McAfee Hacker Says Medtronic Insulin Pumps Vulnerable to Attack
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-02-29T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/mcafee-hacker-says-medtronic-insulin-pumps-vulnerable-to-attack.html
Some  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  insulin pumps
are vulnerable to a hacking attack that could let someone break
into the devices from hundreds of feet away, disable security
alarms and dump insulin directly into diabetics’ bloodstreams,
according to a computer-security researcher at McAfee Inc.  Barnaby Jack, who works as a professional hacker for
 McAfee , said he can remotely control several types of Medtronic
pumps. After first discussing the vulnerability last year at a
small hacker conference in  Florida , he has discovered more ways
to exploit the weakness, including overriding security features
such as vibration warnings.  Jack, who plans to spotlight the flaw this week at the  RSA
security conference  in San Francisco, is trying to increase
awareness of the risks of medical devices. Insulin pumps are
pager-sized gadgets that diabetics wear to dispense the
lifesaving hormone into the body. Such technology is 
increasingly relying on wireless communications, making it
vulnerable to the same hacking that afflicts personal computers.  “These are computers that are just as exploitable as your
PC or Mac, but they’re not looked at as often,” Jack, 34, said
in an interview. “When you actually look at these devices, the
security vulnerabilities are quite shocking.”  Medtronic has responded to the risks by hiring security
teams from three organizations to inspect its products. It’s
also coordinating with the Department of  Homeland Security  to
make changes, which may take years.  “Medtronic takes patient safety and device security very
seriously,” the Minneapolis-based company said in a statement.  Radcliffe’s Research  Medical-device security first became a flash point last
year, when Jay Radcliffe, a diabetic patient in  Idaho , showed
that hackers could manipulate the best-selling brand of pump he
used. Radcliffe got the attention of lawmakers, who pressed the
 Government Accountability Office  to investigate whether the
industry’s cybersecurity rules are tough enough. The report from
that probe is due in July.  Jack’s work takes what Radcliffe did a step further. He has
discovered a way to scan a public space from as much as 300 feet
away, find vulnerable pumps made by Medtronic and force them to
dispense fatal insulin doses. He said he doesn’t need to be
close to the victim or do any kind of extra surveillance to
acquire the serial number, as Radcliffe did.  Jack gained renown in 2010 when he hacked into cash
machines and made them spit out money on stage at a  Black Hat
computer security conference . He works from San Francisco for
McAfee, a security-software company that became  a unit  of  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  last year.  Little Research  There have been few public studies of medical devices’
susceptibility to computer attacks. Research from a consortium
of academics in 2008 found that a popular pacemaker-
defibrillator product could be remotely reprogrammed to deliver
deadly shocks. The  U.S. Food and Drug Administration , which
regulates medical devices, has warned that any devices with
wireless capabilities can be subject to breaches.  “Current adverse event data do not indicate that breaches
of device security measures is a widespread problem,” the
agency said in a statement. “However, we continue to closely
monitor for safety or security problems.”  The work of Radcliffe and Jack is bringing public attention
to flaws that have been discussed privately for years, said
Nathanael Paul, a Type 1 diabetic and computer-security
researcher specializing in medical devices.  Paul, who works with  Oak Ridge National Laboratory , said
his group had replicated many of the same findings in 2010 --
before Radcliffe went public with his research -- and presented
them to the FDA and industry officials. It can take years for
changes in medical devices to hit the market because of long
product cycles and regulatory roadblocks, he said.  The risk of such research is that it could inspire others
to pursue real-world attacks. Still, the technical skill
required means that mass attacks are unlikely, Jack said. The
real problem is a lack of foresight by device makers, he said.  “They didn’t foresee anyone breaking open these devices,
spilling the code and figuring out what’s going on in there,”
Jack said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  