-- California Attorney General Pursues Bills to Help Homeowners
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-02-29T22:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/california-attorney-general-pursues-bills-to-help-homeowners-1-.html
California Attorney General  Kamala Harris  unveiled a legislative agenda aimed at protecting
homeowners from unfair practices by banks and mortgage
companies.  Harris, with two fellow Democrats in the state Legislature,
Assemblyman John Perez and Senator Darrell Steinberg, today
introduced six bills that she said will help consumers cope with
the state’s mortgage and foreclosure crisis.  Harris said at a press conference in  Sacramento , the state
capital, that the legislation builds on the $25 billion
settlement that she and officials with 48 other states reached
with  Bank of America Corp .,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  to end a probe of
abusive foreclosure practices stemming from the collapse of the
housing bubble.  “This is a unique period in time,” Harris told reporters.
“We have reached probably the pinnacle” of the mortgage
crisis’s damage to  California , she said, citing more than two
million homeowners who owe more on their mortgages than their
homes are worth. “There is work we can do to fix that, and this
legislation is one piece of that.”  The bills, if enacted, will strengthen mortgage reforms in
the $25 billion agreement, apply them to all California
mortgages, and permanently add them to state law, Harris said.
The legislation will seek to stop so-called “dual track”
procedures, in which homeowners who are paying down mortgages
modified by the banks are foreclosed on due to conflicting
information coming from the banks, Harris said.  The legislation will offer homeowners in foreclosure a
“single point of contact” for information, and impose a
$10,000 penalty for robo-signing, in which mortgage firms and
their contractors have vouched for thousands of foreclosure
documents without verifying their accuracy.  Harris said her office will gain new enforcement powers
under the legislation. It will allow her to more efficiently use
grand juries to investigate financial crimes occurring in
multiple counties, she said. Such probes will be paid for by a
$25 fee mortgage servicers will pay when recording a default,
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  