-- Can Scott Brown Win as a Kennedy Republican? Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-02-29T00:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/can-scott-brown-win-as-a-kennedy-republican-margaret-carlson.html
The Mad Men of the  Republican Party 
have captured another convert.  Scott Brown , the otherwise
severely moderate senator from Massachusetts who won Ted Kennedy’s seat in a special election two years ago, has signed
on as a co-sponsor of the  Blunt amendment .  Fastened to the highway bill that will be voted on as soon
as this week, the amendment essentially takes the deal the Obama
administration  gave Catholic bishops  on contraception coverage
and extends it to any employer or insurance company that finds a
health service runs afoul of its “religious belief” or “moral
conviction.” Although primarily about birth control, the
amendment is so broadly written it could allow Burger King to
refuse to cover testing its employees for cholesterol because
doing so might crimp its deep religious belief in hamburger
patties (and be self-incriminating to boot).  Massachusetts has a lot of Catholics (although they are the
 least religious Catholics  in the country). But it has even more
women, who must be flummoxed by this recent itch of conservative
men to go after coverage of prescription contraceptives (while
still covering Viagra).  Appeasement Strategy  Until now Brown has been as careful to appease the huge
Democratic majority in his state (a 3-to-1 advantage) as an
elderly Brahmin is to cultivate his window box on Louisburg
Square. With only two years in office before he had to run for
re-election, Brown compiled  a voting record  that got him a
hearty handshake from President  Barack Obama  as he entered the
hall for the State of the Union last month. Not only did he vote
to end the filibuster over the Dodd-Frank financial reform bill,
he was one of four Republicans to vote for it. He voted to
repeal “don’t ask, don’t tell” and against Representative Paul Ryan’s plan to overhaul Medicare.  So, you might ask, what’s a supposedly moderate guy like
Brown doing with a retrograde bill like the Blunt amendment? For
one, it’s no fun being a pariah with your homeboys. It gets
lonely if your only friends are the Maine moderates  Susan Collins  and Olympia Snowe (who just announced she will not run
for re-election). And Senator  Roy Blunt  of  Missouri  is part of
the leadership and a prodigious fundraiser (and, unlike Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , highly likable). Who wants to
sit alone in the Senate Dining Room?  Brown also needs to raise money from Republicans for what’s
looking like an exceedingly close race. Brown brushes off his
likely opponent,  Elizabeth Warren , as a pointy-headed Harvard
professor (she is) and the policewoman of  Wall Street  (she was,
sort of, as the congressional overseer of the Troubled Asset
Relief Program and the person who set up the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau). She is also raising money at a blistering
pace. Brown took in $15.7 million in 2011; Warren, who announced
her candidacy only in September, collected $9 million.  But Brown may have gone too far. At the same time he was
courting Republican money, if not actual Republicans, he also
tried to invoke a Democratic hero. “Like  Ted Kennedy  before
me,” he said in  a radio ad , “I support a conscience exemption
in health care for Catholics and other people of faith.” Brown
was referring to a provision inserted by Kennedy in 1995
legislation that said Catholic health practitioners would not
have to participate in procedures (read: abortions) that
violated their conscience.  Warren called this hogwash and said Brown’s fight to crimp
contraceptive coverage is just “plain wrong.” The Kennedy
family also objected, asking Brown to pull an ad that mentioned
the late senator (he refused). In a letter, former
Representative  Patrick Kennedy  wrote: “Providing health care to
every American was the work of my father’s life. The Blunt
Amendment you are supporting is an attack on that cause.” (Ted
Kennedy’s bill allowed a doctor or nurse who didn’t object to
perform the services, and later bills he sponsored specifically
required employers to provide contraceptive coverage.)  Contraception and Communion  It’s one thing for the bishops to ostracize the secular
socialist in the White House this election year, much as some
did by saying they would refuse Communion to Senator  John Kerry 
when he was a presidential candidate eight years ago. But it’s
dicey for Brown to go there: Does he really believe, as  Rick Santorum  does, that contraception is bad for women? And it would
be even more astounding if Brown were to head down the path
paved by Bob McDonnell, the governor of  Virginia  and possible
vice-presidential candidate, who has intermittently supported
requiring a vaginal probe for pregnant women seeking a legal
abortion. Brown’s move makes Mitt Romney’s partial embrace of
the personhood amendment look moderate.  For years, Catholic institutions, including  Massachusetts ’
own Boston College, have covered contraception without a peep
from the bishops. I called Catholic Health East, with 54,000
employees, to see whether it covered contraception and was
referred to the Archdiocese of  New York , which hasn’t returned
my call. Dignity Health, as Catholic Healthcare West has been
renamed, covers its 60,000 employees.  Bishops don’t have to worry about re-election. Senators do.
So there was a little ambivalence in  Brown’s op-ed  article,
published last week in the Boston Globe, defending his support
of the Blunt amendment. Citing his wife and daughters (of
course), he stood for the proposition that “insurance companies
should have to cover services that many women want and rely
on.” But then he went on to create an exemption for conscience
so wide the Church of  Dunkin’ Donuts  could waddle through. He’s
toast -- unglazed, no cinnamon, no sugar.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 