-- Canada’s Dollar Climbs to Strongest in Five Months on ECB Loans, Balancing
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-02-29T22:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/canada-dollar-rises-to-highest-since-september-on-ecb-loans-total-results.html
Canada ’s dollar rose to the highest
level in more than five months against its U.S. counterpart as
the  European Central Bank  awarded a record amount of loans to
euro-area banks to avert a credit crunch.  The currency rallied against all but one of its 16 most-
traded peers, Taiwan’s dollar, as portfolio managers sold the
U.S. dollar to rebalance holdings at month-end relative to stock
gains. It has risen 1.3 percent this month versus the greenback.
The  U.S. economy  grew last quarter more than forecast, data
showed, and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke damped bets
policy makers will provide more monetary stimulus.  “We seem to have seen a large amount of Canadian-dollar
buying related to month-end,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief
currency strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD Securities
unit in Toronto. “It may also reflect the fact that the market
is less leveraged to the Canadian dollar than say, the
Australian or  New Zealand  dollars. When times are good, the
Canadian dollar may not do as well, but when we hit a speed
bump, it holds up.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.5 percent to
98.99 cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It
strengthened to as much as 1.1 percent to 98.45 cents, the
highest since Sept. 19. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0106.  The Canadian currency has gained 3.2 percent in 2012 versus
the  U.S. dollar  on increased demand for higher-yielding assets.
It fell 2.3 percent last year.  Euro, Yen  The loonie rose today versus the euro to its strongest in
more than a week as the 17-nation currency dropped versus most
major peers after 800 banks borrowed 529.5 billion euros ($712.2
billion) from the ECB. The central bank moved to boost liquidity
amid the region’s sovereign-debt crisis. The Canadian currency
gained as much as 1.7 percent to C$1.3163 per euro.  “European banks have borrowed more than expected and can
invest in riskier assets; are they really going to invest in
European equities or sovereign debt?” said  Dean Popplewell ,
head analyst in Toronto at the online currency-trading firm
Oanda Corp. “Eventually this excess liquidity is likely to
depress euro front-end rates, further allowing investors to
gravitate to the stronger U.S. equity market where the loonie is
winning by association.”  Canada’s dollar climbed to a more than six-month high
against  Japan ’s currency, strengthening as much as 1.8 percent
to 82.28 yen. It appreciated 0.9 percent to C$1.0619 per
Australian dollar and gained 1 percent to 82.53 cents to the New
Zealand dollar.  Australia  and New Zealand, like Canada, are
commodity exporters.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.5 percent, trimming
its monthly advance to 4.1 percent. The MSCI World Index of
stocks in developed nations slid 0.3 percent on the day while
gaining 4.7 percent in February.  ‘Dreadful Range’  “The month-end flows into the Canadian dollar today have
been the story,” said Steve Butler, managing director in
Toronto at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotia Capital unit. “We’ve
been stuck in a dreadful range all month, and we saw lots of
momentum players buying the Canadian dollar on the move under
support at 99.20 cents to 99.25 cents.” Support refers to the
lower boundary of a trading range, in this case for the U.S.
dollar against the loonie.  Before today, Canada’s currency had traded within a two-
cent range versus the greenback since Jan. 26, between 99.07
cents and C$1.0071.  Note Auction  The Canadian government sold C$3.5 billion ($3.5 billion)
of two-year notes due in May 2014, drawing an average yield of
1.116 percent, according to a statement on a  Bank of Canada 
website. The last auction of two-year debt on Feb. 8 drew an
average yield of 1.095.  Current two-year notes fell, pushing yields up three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.10 percent. Yields on
benchmark 10-year notes were little changed at 1.99 percent.  The Bank of Canada meets next week to determine  interest
rates . Policy makers have held the benchmark at 1 percent since
September 2010 as concern that some European countries may face
default tempers an annual inflation rate that has exceeded the
central bank’s 2 percent target for 14 straight months.  “We still see gravity as the overriding influence in
dollar-Canada as long as global metrics vis-a-vis risk and
liquidity remain intact,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of
foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada (NA)  in Toronto. “The
longer-term broader descending channel is intact,” he said,
referring to a chart pattern of the greenback.  Crude Oil  Crude for April delivery increased as much as 0.9 percent
to $107.43 a barrel in  New York . It briefly dropped to $104.84
after the U.S. Energy Department said oil stockpiles rose last
week, before trading at $106.85, up 0.3 percent. Crude, Canada’s
biggest export, has advanced 8.7 percent in February, its first
monthly gain since November, as sanctions tighten against  Iran ,
OPEC’s second-biggest producer.  The commodity touched $109.95 a barrel on Feb. 24, the
highest since May.  Canada’s dollar remained higher as U.S. equities reversed
early gains after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
testimony to Congress damped speculation the central bank would
buy more assets under quantitative easing.  While Bernanke told Congress that keeping monetary stimulus
is warranted, he said rising gasoline prices are likely to push
up inflation temporarily and the drop in the  unemployment rate 
has been more rapid than expected. The rate fell to 8.3 percent
last month from 9.1 percent in August.  U.S. gross domestic product climbed at a revised 3 percent
annual rate, the most since the second quarter of 2010, Commerce
Department figures showed today in  Washington .  The Canadian dollar gained 0.4 percent over the past week
against nine developed-nation counterparts monitored by
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Currency Indexes. The U.S. dollar
fell 0.8 percent, and the euro declined 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  