-- Cantor Fails to Win Damages Against Four Executives Who Joined China Bank
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-02-29T08:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/cantor-fitzgerald-loses-suit-against-executives-who-left-for-chinese-bank.html
Cantor Fitzgerald  LP failed to win
damages from four managing directors in  Hong Kong  who left the
New York-based brokerage to join China-backed investment bank
Reorient Financial Markets Ltd.  “There is not a shred of evidence suggesting that, whether
individually or collectively, they had any intention to injure
Cantor Hong Kong,” High Court Judge A.T. Reyes said in a
judgment handed down today.  Cantor’s Europe and Hong Kong units had sought HK$8.7
million ($1.1 million) in damages from former Hong Kong head
Jason Boyer and three others, accusing them of breaching their
employment contracts and causing a 29 percent drop in its
average monthly revenue in the Chinese city.  Victoria Ho, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Cantor at
Ogilvy, couldn’t immediately provide a comment from the
brokerage in response to today’s court decision.  Boyer, Bradford Ainslie and Brett McGonegal of Cantor’s
Asian cash equities desk and Uwe Parpart, its former Asia chief
economist and strategist, left for a firm now known as Reorient
Financial on the same day last year. The startup is backed by an
asset manager under  China ’s State-owned Assets Supervision and
Administration Commission and aims to become a global investment
bank, according to the defendants.  Costs Award  All four told the court in a trial last month that they
left Cantor independently.  “An employee is free to make up one’s mind whether to stay
or leave,” Reyes wrote in his 48-page decision.  He ordered the defendants to pay Cantor at least $1.3
million, mostly representing payments in lieu of notice. Cantor
was ordered to pay most of the defendants legal fees.  Reorient Financial is owned by Asia TeleMedia Ltd., now
known as  ReOrient Group Ltd. (376)  The bank will be offered priority
in advising on restructuring more than 100 businesses managed by
 China Chengtong Holdings Group , an investor in Reorient.  The case is Cantor Fitzgerald  Europe , Cantor Fitzgerald
(Hong Kong) Capital Markets Ltd. and Jason Boyer, Bradford
Ainslie, Brett McGonegal, Uwe Henke von Parpart, HCA1160/2011 in
Hong Kong’s Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  