-- Carnival Misadventures Mar Cruise Operator’s Recovery From Concordia Wreck
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2012-02-29T15:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/carnival-misadventures-mar-cruise-operator-s-recovery-from-concordia-wreck.html
Several new incidents involving
vessels of  Carnival Corp. (CCL) , owner of the Costa Concordia
passenger liner that ran aground off  Italy  in January, are
clouding the cruise operator’s recovery as peak booking season
enters its final leg.  In the past week, 22 passengers of the Carnival Splendor
were robbed during a land excursion in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico,
and two of the company’s British ships were turned away in
Argentina after visiting the Falkland Islands, as part of a
long-running dispute between the South American country and the
U.K.  Another of Miami-based Carnival’s Italian liners, the Costa
Allegra, suffered an onboard fire Feb. 27 and is being towed to
the Seychelles, where it is expected to dock tomorrow. Today,
the U.S. House of Representatives begins hearings on cruise ship
safety.  Carnival, the world’s biggest cruise operator, has dropped
 12 percent  since Jan. 13, when the Costa Concordia struck rocks
and partially sank, killing at least 25 people. The incident led
Carnival to reduce marketing in the January to March period
during which one-third of all voyages are arranged.  The publicity is “not something you need during peak
booking season,” said Rachael Rothman, an analyst with
Susquehanna Financial Corp. in  New York . She changed her rating
on Carnival shares to “neutral” from “positive” on Jan. 17
due to the potential hit to cruise bookings and prices this
year. “Our issue was that you couldn’t ascertain a fair value
if you didn’t know what demand would be.”  Mexico Excursion Suspended  Carnival suspended the Mexico excursion and has apologized
to guests, according to a statement from Vance Gulliksen, a
company spokesman.  The company’s Genoa-based Costa Crociere unit has been
supplying passengers on the powerless Allegra with flashlights
and fresh bread and “doing everything possible to make the
situation onboard more comfortable,” according to a statement
from Buck Banks, an outside spokesman for Carnival. The
situation on the ship is “regular,” Costa Crociere said in an
e-mailed statement today. The company has booked 600 airline
seats and 400 hotel rooms for possible accommodation needs, it
said.  Passengers have gathered on outside decks as “a slight
breeze helps make the situation more comfortable,” Costa
Crociere said yesterday. The ship is being towed to the
Seychelles by a French fishing vessel and is expected to arrive
tomorrow at 9 a.m. local time in Mahe, an island in the
Seychelles.  Carnival Earnings  Prior to the Concordia crash, Carnival had said annual
earnings could rise as much as 17 percent to $2.85 a share in
2012. About $71 million in costs related to the accident, as
well fuel and currency adjustments, may reduce results by as
much as 51 cents a share, the company said in a Jan. 30
Securities and Exchange Commission filing.  Carnival’s namesake brand and its other lines, including
Princess and P&O Cruises, operate separately, Gulliksen said in
an e-mail. The Concordia shipwreck has affected those lines as
well as Carnival’s competitors. Excluding Costa Cruises,
fleetwide bookings declined in the mid-teens in percentage terms
through Jan. 25, the most recent period for which information
was available.  “The cruise industry has an outstanding historical safety
record and we are fully confident in the long-term fundamentals
of our business,” Gulliksen said.  Royal Caribbean  Bookings at rival  Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL)  fell by the
low-to-mid teens afterward in percentage terms, the Miami-based
company said in a Feb. 2 statement. Before the Concordia
accident, bookings were running 5 percent ahead of 2011 levels.
The world’s cruise liner market is “beginning to see some
ticket pricing declines,” UBS analyst Robin M. Farley wrote in
a note dated yesterday.  “We’re in uncharted territory and our traditional models
simply don’t cover events like this,” Royal Caribbean Chief
Executive Richard Fain said on a conference call that day.  Carnival added 0.9 percent to $30.27 at 10:36 a.m. New York
trading and has declined 7.3 percent this year, compared with a
9.4 percent gain for the  S&P 500 Index . Royal Caribbean rose 2.9
percent to $28.88 and has gained 17 percent this year.  The Costa Concordia remains half submerged and on its side.
Divers searching the wreckage found eight more bodies on Feb.
22, according to the Italian Civil Protection Agency. Seven
people are still missing, the agency said.  Italian Claims  A total of nine Costa Crociere employees are under probe in
connection with the Concordia crash. The cruise line is
“absolutely certain” its staff acted correctly, it said in an
e-mailed statement on Feb. 22.  Italian consumer associations have started advising clients
on damage claims. Codacons, an Italian consumer group that filed
a suit against Carnival in Miami on Jan. 27 with New York law
firm Proner and Proner, said on its website yesterday that
damages relating to Costa Allegra passengers will have to be
“adequately paid back.”  Italy is sending Coast Guard experts to the Seychelles to
probe the Costa Allegra accident along with local authorities
and assist passengers, according to a government spokeswoman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  