-- Chavez Cancer Surgery Makes Venezuela Bonds Best Emerging-Market Performer
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-02-29T22:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/chavez-cancer-surgery-makes-venezuela-bonds-best-emerging-market-performer.html
Venezuelan debt returned the most in
 emerging markets  this month as investors boosted holdings of the
oil producer’s bonds on speculation President  Hugo Chavez ’s
deteriorating health will prevent him from seeking re-election.  Venezuelan bonds  returned  14 percent this month through
yesterday, compared to 7.4 percent for the Ivory Coast, 5.2
percent for  Vietnam  and 3.1 percent for Belarus, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index. Year-to-date,
 Venezuela ’s dollar bonds have returned 22 percent.  Chavez, 57, has made Venezuela one of the world’s riskiest
credits by exerting more state control over the economy through
nationalizations and price controls. The president was operated
on in Cuba this week to remove a possibly malignant lesion in
his pelvis, his third surgery in a year, delaying his plans to
campaign for another six-year term. Venezuela’s borrowing costs,
the highest in the Americas after Belize, have plummeted as
crude oil prices surge and as the opposition rallies around a
single candidate to challenge Chavez in October elections.  “The market may be putting more weight on the probability
that he won’t be able to run come October for health issues,”
 Stuart Culverhouse , chief economist with London-based investment
bank Exotix Ltd., said in a phone interview. “That would play
to the opposition’s advantage and create a more investor-
friendly backdrop.”  Exotix has a buy recommendation on Venezuelan bonds
maturing in 2019.  ‘Good Health’  Chavez is in “good health” after doctors extracted the
lesion, and tests will determine whether the growth is malignant
or what treatment may be needed, Vice President Elias Jaua said
yesterday in a speech to the National Assembly.  Venezuelan bonds, which have gained in 2012 on improving
sentiment in the global economy and surging oil prices, rallied
further this month after Chavez said tests revealed the lesion.
He had declared himself “illness free” in October.  The yield on Venezuela’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds
maturing in 2027 has fallen 193 basis points, or 1.93 percentage
point, this month to 10.67 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The bond’s price surged 12.03 cents to 89.33 cents
on the dollar.  “We’ve seen in general the assets judged most risky a few
months ago performing the best,” said  Richard Segal , credit
strategist for emerging markets at Jefferies Group Inc. in
 London . “Countries that have performed well have their own
special factors, and in Venezuela, that’s the electoral issue.”  Buy Recommendation  Segal said that he’s recommending investors buy Venezuelan
bonds with a maturity of no more than three years.  The extra yield that investors demand to own Venezuelan
debt over U.S. Treasuries has plunged 235 basis points in
February to 920. That compares to a fall of 56 basis points for
the EMBI Global index in that period.  The yield spread widened today for the first time in eight
days.  Venezuela, which depends on oil for 95 percent of export
revenue, saw the price of its  crude export basket  surge 7
percent in February to $114.59 a barrel, the highest since
August 2008.  The rise in  oil prices  supports the government’s ability to
pay its debt, and has helped push down the cost of insuring
Venezuela against default with 5-year credit default swaps.  ‘Positive Backdrop’  “The boost to oil revenues will also support sentiment
toward Venezuela and risk assets, that’s certainly a positive
backdrop,” Exotix’s Culverhouse said. “The domestic factors
are there, more so than in recent years.”  Rising oil prices and an increased possibility that Chavez
may not be able to stand for re-election led Bank of America
Merrill Lynch to raise its recommendation on Venezuelan debt to
“overweight” from “market weight” on Feb. 22.  The probability of Chavez being unfit to run for re-
election is now more than 50 percent, Citigroup Inc. said Feb.
27, citing conversations with medical specialists.  Ivory Coast , which pledged to resume payments in January on
its defaulted bonds due in 2032, has returned 24 percent this
year and 64 percent during the past 12 months, the best
performance on the index.  Chavez has led the OPEC nation since 1999, polarizing the
country with his socialist policies to increase state control
over the economy through nationalizations and capital controls
that have fueled one of the world’s highest inflation rates.  Chavez will face Henrique Capriles Radonski, a 39-year-old
governor of Miranda state, in the elections after Capriles won a
primary election on Feb. 12 by more than 30 percentage points.  PDVSA Bonds  Ajata Mediratta, a portfolio manager at Greylock Capital in
 New York  who oversees about $400 million of emerging-market
assets, said that if he adds to Venezuelan bonds it would be
with securities of state oil producer  Petroleos de Venezuela SA 
as the credit is “essentially sovereign risk” and pays a
higher yield.  “We’ve been overweight for a while with the view that it’s
structurally cheap, there aren’t many countries with that kind
of yield and liquidity,” Mediratta said in a phone interview.
“With the opposition getting its act together and the potential
that Chavez’s energy level may be down, you can actually see a
road map for change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  