-- Chicago Purchasing Manager Index Rises More Than Forecast
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-02-29T15:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/chicago-purchasing-managers-index-rises.html
Business activity in the U.S.
accelerated more than forecast in February to the fastest pace
in almost a year, a sign manufacturers are leading the expansion.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its  business barometer  climbed to a 10-month high of 64 from
60.2 in January. Readings above 50 signal growth. Economists
forecast the gauge would rise to 61, according to the median of
59 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  A pickup in auto sales, sustained corporate investment in
equipment and continued inventory rebuilding are driving the
factory-led expansion. Orders and production accelerated this
month, prompting the strongest pace of manufacturing employment
growth since May 1984, the report showed.  “Manufacturing is going to do just fine,” said  Eric Green ,
a chief market economist at TD Securities Inc. in New York.
“The underlying components are all very strong, especially
employment, which provides more evidence the transition to a
higher pace of job growth looks to be sustainable. The seeds of
a virtuous cycle are sown.”  Economists’ projections in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
58.3 to 63.  Stocks added to gains after the figures. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.3 percent to 1,376.8 at 9:54 a.m. in
 New York .  Fourth Quarter Growth  Another report today from the Commerce Department showed
the economy grew at a 3 percent pace in the fourth quarter, more
than in the previous estimate. Consumer spending rose at a 2.1
percent rate.  The Chicago group’s employment measure rose to 64.2 from
54.7 the prior month. The production gauge increased to 67.8,
the highest since April, from 63.8, and the index of new orders
climbed to 69.2, an 11-month high.  The measure of prices paid rose to 65.6 from 62.4 and a
gauge of inventories decreased to 49.6, the lowest since August
2010, from 51.6. The order backlogs index rose to 53.6 from 48.3.  Economists watch the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the national
outlook. The Chicago group says its membership includes both
manufacturers and service providers with operations in the U.S.
and abroad, making the gauge a measure of overall growth.  National Index  The  ISM’s national factory  index rose in February to 54.5
from 54.1 the prior month, according to the median projection in
a Bloomberg survey ahead of the group’s report tomorrow. Like
the Chicago survey, a reading greater than 50 signals expansion.  New York-region factories expanded in February at the
fastest rate since June 2010 and manufacturing in the
Philadelphia area grew the most in four months, separate figures
from the  Federal Reserve  showed last week.  “For many products demand has been above our ability to
produce,”  Mike DeWalt , director of  investor relations  at
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , said on a Jan. 26 conference call with
analysts. “We have invested in Caterpillar factories in the
 United States  and around the world to increase production.”  Even with planned increases in  capital expenditures  this
year, “we’re still very tight on many products and are
currently quoting extended delivery times for them,” he said.  Factory Jobs  That may explain the gains in manufacturing employment.
Factory payrolls jumped by 50,000 in January, the most in a year,
and the industry’s workers put in the longest workweek on
average since January 1998, the Labor Department monthly data
showed on Feb. 3.  Vehicle demand should also drive production at the nation’s
auto plants. Cars and light trucks sold at a 14.1 million annual
rate last month, according to industry data. Excluding a surge
in August 2009 tied to the government’s “cash-for-clunkers”
program, it was the strongest month since May 2008.  While it’s had a limited effect on household sentiment,
higher fuel costs still pose a risk to  consumer spending , which
accounts for about 70 percent of the economy. The price of a
gallon of regular unleaded gasoline climbed to $3.72 as of Feb.
27 from a 10-month low of $3.21 on Dec. 20, according to AAA,
the nation’s largest automobile association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 