-- Chile’s New Manufacturing Index Increases 3.7% in January
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-02-29T15:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/chile-s-new-manufacturing-index-increases-3-7-in-january-1-.html
Chilean manufacturing expanded 3.7
percent in January from a year ago in a  new index  created by the
National Statistics Institute that uses a different base year.  Mining contracted 6.7 percent from a year ago, while retail
sales grew 6.3 percent and supermarket revenue expanded 3.2
percent, the institute said in a report today. Chile’s economy
climbed an estimated 4.2 percent in January on growth in
manufacturing and retail sales, Cristobal Doberti, an economist
at Bice Inversiones, said by telephone today.  A new industrial production index, dubbed IPI for its
Spanish initials, fell 1.2 percent in January from the previous
year, the institute said. The index includes mining,
manufacturing and utilities.  “The IPI didn’t exist before, and the manufacturing index
has a different base year than the previous industrial
production data, meaning it stands alone and can’t be compared
to previous reports,” Doberti said from Santiago. “Obviously
this change created more volatility in the data with respect to
what was expected, but you can still draw conclusions from it.”  The median estimate of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
was for industrial production to increase 2.1 percent in
January.  Today’s data uses a base year of 2009 rather than 2002 in
previous reports. The new manufacturing index gives a higher
weighting to items like food and beverages as well as paper and
a lower weighting to goods such as tobacco and chemicals.  Industrial production grew 0.5 percent in December from the
previous year while the central bank’s  Imacec index  that serves
as a proxy for gross domestic product climbed 5.3 percent.  Copper production fell 7.6 percent in January from the
previous year to 396,341 metric tons, the institute said today.
Chile is the world’s leading producer of the metal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  