-- Chile Peso Falls After Reversing Direction on Bernanke Remarks
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-02-29T17:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/chilean-peso-gains-fifth-day-on-europe-measures-u-s-growth.html
Chile ’s peso weakened, reversing an
earlier gain, after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said the Fed’s current stance is in line with its goals, damping
speculation of further stimulus and pushing up the dollar.  The peso weakened 0.6 percent to 479.48 per  U.S. dollar  at
the 1:30 p.m. close in Santiago. The currency earlier reached a
20-day high of 474.89 per U.S. dollar.  Bernanke told the  U.S. Congress  that keeping monetary
stimulus is warranted in remarks interpreted as damping
speculation of more quantitative easing to bolster the world’s
biggest economy. Chile’s largest export, copper, slid as did the
euro and global stocks.  “All the optimism that had been in the market earlier
today ended,” said Andres de la Cerda, a money markets trader
at Bice Inversiones in Santiago. “Stocks fell, futures fell,
the euro fell, all on Bernanke’s comments.”  Copper for May delivery declined as much as 3 percent on
the Comex in  New York  to $3.805 a pound after gaining 1 percent.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a revised annual pace of 3 percent
in the fourth quarter of last year, more than forecast. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  yesterday  closed  above 13,000 for the
first time since May 2008, the U.S. jobless rate has fallen to
the lowest since February 2009 and the Conference Board said its
gauge of consumer sentiment is at the highest level in a year.  Offshore investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
reduced their short position in the peso to $4.4 billion on Feb.
27 from $4.7 billion on Feb. 24.  Swaps Fall  Chilean interest-rate swaps fell today after publication of
minutes from the central banks last meeting that showed the bank
is still considering rate cuts in the future. The two-year swap
rate fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.05
percent, its first decline in a week. The six-month rate fell
three basis points to 4.90 percent. The rates measure the cost
of swapping a floating  interest rate  for a fixed rate and
reflect expectations for average future central bank rates.  Data published by the National Statistics Institute showed
that retail sales grew 6.3 percent in the 12 months through
January, the slowest since November 2009 and less than the 9
percent median forecast of 11 economists in a  Bloomberg survey.   “It’s still a pretty good pace, but it’s a sharp
deceleration,” said Benjamin Sierra, an economist at Scotiabank
Chile in Santiago. “The jobs market isn’t getting tighter and
the rate of  job creation  is decelerating. Are we in a soft patch
or is this a change of trend? That’s a question the central bank
will be looking at carefully.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  