-- China Money Rate Drops to One-Month Low as PBOC Skips Bill Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-29T09:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/china-money-rate-drops-to-one-month-low-as-pboc-skips-bill-sales.html
China ’s money-market rate dropped to
the lowest level in a month on speculation the central bank will
skip bill sales tomorrow, helping maintain cash supply.  The People’s Bank of China didn’t gauge demand today for
three-month  securities  due to be sold tomorrow, a sign it won’t
proceed with the auction, according to a trader at a primary
dealer required to participate in the sale. The central bank has
refrained from issuing three-month and one-year  bills  since Dec.
22 and Dec. 27, respectively.  “The suspension of bill sales is good news for the money
market, while the bill redemption amount is very low this
month,” said Wang Huane, a senior trader at Qilu Bank Co. in
Jinan, the capital of eastern Shandong province. “There’s
limited space for money-market rates to decline further.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped 18 basis points to 3.48 percent as
of 4:46 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. It touched
3.2 percent earlier, the lowest level since Jan. 21, and has
fallen 86 basis points in February.  A total of 254 billion yuan ($40.4 billion) of central bank
bills and repurchase contracts will mature next month, compared
with 12 billion yuan in February, according to China Merchants
Bank Co.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, declined three basis
points to 3.32 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It climbed 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, this
month.  The yield on the 3.01 percent government bonds due November
2012 dropped one basis point to 2.93 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center.  -- Judy Chen . With assistance from Fion Li in  Hong Kong . Editors:
Simon Harvey, Sandy Hendry  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 