-- Chocolate Boycott Spurs Blue Square Plunge: Israel Overnight
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-03-01T15:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/chocolate-boycott-spurs-blue-square-plunge-israel-overnight.html
Alon Holdings Blue Square-Israel
Ltd. (BSI) , the country’s second-largest food retailer, tumbled to a
record low on bets consumer protests against increases in food
costs will hinder supermarkets’ ability to raise prices.  Rosh Ha’Ayin, Israel-based Blue Square  fell  1.4 percent to
$3.51 in New York yesterday, extending its drop over the past
six months to 49 percent, the biggest decline among companies on
the Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index of the largest Israeli New
York-listed companies. The measure dropped 0.5 percent to 85.30,
led by  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA)  Blue Square declined 1.7
percent to 13.29 shekels, or the equivalent of $3.51, at the
4:30 p.m. close in  Tel Aviv  today.  Israeli activists have written to foodmaker  Strauss Group
Ltd. (STRS) , threatening to boycott its chocolate bars unless it lowers
prices, daily newspaper Calcalist reported last month.
Demonstrations in June and July, which started as prices for
cottage cheese climbed, prodded closely-held Tnuva Industries
Agricultural Co-Op In Israel Ltd. to cut its recommended selling
prices by as much as 15 percent. Strauss followed with
reductions of 12 percent on some of its  milk products .  “The awakening of the chocolate protest proves that the
consumer demonstrations are still with us,” Meir Slater, an
analyst at DS Securities & Investments, said by telephone from
Tel Aviv. The supermarkets “will have trouble raising prices in
the long term, as the public is watching their every move.”  Shitrit Media Group, the external public-relations company
for Blue Square, had no immediate comment when contacted by
telephone today.  Operating Margin  Same-store sales during the third quarter dropped 6.6
percent from the same period last year after public protests led
to a decline in product prices and consumer demand, Blue Square
said in a PRNewswire statement on Nov. 28.  Blue Square dropped 11 percent last month in New York,
after the Tel Aviv  shares  retreated 9.6 percent to 13.52
shekels, or the equivalent of $3.58.  Shufersal Ltd. (SAE) , Israel’s largest supermarket chain, dropped
5.6 percent last month. The company will probably say today that
fourth-quarter operating profit almost halved to 76 million
shekels ($20.1 million), according to a forecast by Bank Leumi
Le-Israel Ltd.  Blue Square posted an operating margin in the third quarter
of 2.2 percent, below Shufersal’s 2.4 percent and 3.8 percent
for smaller rival  Rami Levi Chain Stores Hashikma Marketing 2006
Ltd. (RMLI)   “The retail sector is very challenging and both Blue
Square and Shufersal have to invest millions of shekels per year
to preserve market share,” Slater said.  Protests  Hundreds of thousands of protesters demonstrated in Israel
last year, calling for more affordable housing and lower prices
for food and other consumer products. In response to the
protests, Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  appointed a
committee led by economist  Manuel Trajtenberg , which recommended
a series of measures to boost competition.  “The feeling in Israel is that food retailers have been
trying to maximize profits on the backs of consumers,” said
Zach Herzog, equity sales trader at the Tel Aviv-based Psagot
Investment House Ltd. “International investors have expressed
concern about the potential impact on future earnings for some
of these companies.”  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  Tel Aviv’s benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  climbed 1.5 percent
yesterday, paring its drop last month to 3.4 percent, the
biggest since November. The Bloomberg Israel-US Index fell 0.2
percent in February. The TA-25 index rose 1 percent to 1,091.98
today.  Soda Machines  SodaStream declined 14 percent to $40.75 yesterday, the
most since Aug. 16. The Airport City, Israel-based company said
that unit sales of its homemade soda machines grew at a slower
pace than in the previous period.  “Until we have further clarity on the deceleration in soda
maker unit sales we see reason for pause,” Jim Duffy, an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in  San Francisco , wrote in an
e-mailed report yesterday.  Retalix Ltd. (RTLX) , the maker of software used by supermarkets,
advanced 2.9 percent to $17.85 in the U.S. yesterday. The shares
gained 1.5 percent to 67.05 shekels, or the equivalent of
$17.70, in Tel Aviv today.  The Ra’anana, Israel-based company reported fourth-quarter
sales of $62.5 million, beating the $59.9 million mean estimate
of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  FDA Rules  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest
maker of generic drugs, fell 0.4 percent to $44.81 in the U.S.
yesterday. The shares gained 0.9 percent to 170.90 shekels or
the equivalent of $45.11 today in Tel Aviv.  Perrigo Co. (PRGO) , the largest U.S. maker of generic over-the-
counter drugs, climbed 2.7 percent to $103.06, the highest on
record. The shares in Tel Aviv advanced 2.9 percent to 390.20
shekels, or the equivalent of $102.99, today.  The U.S. Food & Drug Administration is considering rule
changes that would allow more prescription drugs to be sold over
the counter, it said on its website earlier this week.  Teva and Perrigo stand to benefit from such a move,  Randall Stanicky , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Corp. in  New York ,
wrote in an e-mailed report yesterday.  “Teva has most aggressively targeted the global over-the-
counter market as an opportunity,” Stanicky wrote. Perrigo
“should continue to benefit from any growth acceleration as
chains will look to participate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at   eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net  