-- Cigarette Makers Can’t Be Forced to Use Graphic Warnings
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-03-01T01:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/cigarette-makers-can-t-be-forced-by-fda-to-use-graphic-warnings-on-ads.html
The U.S. Food and Drug
Administration was blocked by a federal judge from requiring
 tobacco companies  to put graphic health warnings on cigarette
packaging.  U.S. District Judge Richard Leon in  Washington  said the
government’s rule violates the tobacco companies’ rights to free
speech.  “These mandatory graphic images violate the First
Amendment by unconstitutionally compelling speech,” Leon wrote
in today’s decision.  Under direction from Congress, which wanted tobacco
companies to use color graphics depicting the negative health
consequences of smoking, the FDA selected nine images, including
ones of a corpse and cancerous lungs. The FDA wanted to require
tobacco companies beginning Sept. 22 to put one of the labels on
each pack of cigarettes, pairing the images with text such as
“Smoking can kill you.”  The graphics were supposed to cover the top half of the
front and back of cigarette packages and 20 percent of print
advertisements. The FDA estimated the visual warnings would help
lower the smoking rate by about 0.212 percentage points, Leon
wrote in his opinion.  Lorillard, Reynolds  Units of   Lorillard Inc. (LO)  and  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , along
with Commonwealth Brands Inc. and Liggett Group LLC, sued the
FDA in August, claiming the mandates for cigarette packages,
cartons and advertising would violate the First Amendment. The
companies said in court papers that it would cost them a
combined total of about $20 million to meet the 2012 deadline.  “The opinion is a straightforward and clear affirmation
that compelled speech by the government is not only rarely
constitutional but plainly unconstitutional in this case,”
 Floyd Abrams , a lawyer for Lorillard, said in a phone interview.  Michelle Bolek, an FDA spokeswoman, said in an e-mail that
the agency doesn’t comment on litigation as a matter of policy.  Christopher Hansen, president of the American Cancer
Society Cancer Action Network, said the ruling “is bad for
public health” and a “victory for big tobacco.”  “Larger, graphic warning labels have the potential to
encourage adults to quit smoking cigarettes and deter children
from starting in the first place,” Hansen said in an e-mailed
statement.  U.S. cigarette packs and ads now carry one of four text
warnings under a federal law enacted in 1984. The messages
include “Cigarette Smoke Contains Carbon Monoxide” and
“Smoking Causes Lung Cancer,  Heart Disease , Emphysema and May
Complicate Pregnancy.” They aren’t paired with images.  ‘Toxic Qualities’  Representative Henry Waxman, a California Democrat, said in
a statement that Congress considered First Amendment issues when
it enacted the graphic warnings law in 2009.  “These provisions were informed by scientific evidence
showing that current warning labels have run their
course and that labels with graphic warnings would be more
effective in protecting the public’s health from tobacco’s
addictive and toxic qualities,” Waxman said.  Canada , the U.K. and  Brazil  are among countries that
require graphic cigarette warnings. One in five Canadian smokers
reported smoking less as a result of graphic labels in a 2004
study of more than 600 people.  The case is R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration , 11-cv-01482, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  