-- Condo Market Bottoming With Morgan Stanley Reducing Loan Losses: Mortgages
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-02-29T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/condo-market-bottoming-with-morgan-stanley-reducing-loan-losses-mortgages.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  is finding the bottom
in the U.S. condominium market.  The bank, which ended up as an owner of the largest luxury
condominium project in the U.S. Northwest with other lenders
after the developer defaulted on loans made at the height of the
 housing boom , cut prices by about 40 percent to jumpstart sales
and reduce mortgage losses. About half of the 539 units at
Bellevue Towers in Bellevue, Washington, have sold, with
transactions more than tripling in the past year, said Patrick
Clark, the broker for the buildings, completed in 2009.  “It’s really been in the last eight to 12 months that
we’ve started to see buildings sell out well,” said Ben
Kakimoto, a real-estate broker who specializes in condos at
Keller Williams Realty in  Seattle . “All the projects are
benefiting now because there’s been no new condo construction”
in the area for the past four years.  Falling prices and a scarcity of new buildings are helping
fuel home sales in the Seattle-Bellevue region, with condo
transactions rising seven times faster than the average of 20
large metropolitan areas in the U.S. With evidence growing that
housing is improving after helping trigger the last recession,
lenders are chipping away at losses from projects created prior
to the financial crisis.  Investor Confidence  Signs the economic recovery is accelerating, including a
decline in the  jobless rate  to a three-year low of 8.3 percent
in January, are also bolstering investor confidence in bonds
tied to commercial properties from skyscrapers to luxury
apartment buildings. The extra yield investors demand to hold
top-ranked commercial-mortgage bonds rather than Treasuries has
declined 56 basis points since December to 205 basis points, or
2.05 percentage points, according to a Barclays Plc  index .
That’s the narrowest spread since June.  Work began on the Bellevue Towers in 2006, funded with $275
million of senior debt arranged by Morgan Stanley, including a
$75 million construction loan from the New York-based bank, said
Ira K. Glasser, the consultant who oversees the project on
behalf of the lender group that owns it. An additional $165
million came from mezzanine loans and equity financing arranged
by the developer, Portland, Oregon-based Gerding Edlen
Development.  After credit markets seized up and  home prices  tumbled
across the U.S., prospective buyers at Bellevue Towers canceled
in droves. Of the 229 purchase agreements booked before closings
began in 2009, only 43 were completed, according to the broker.  ‘Would Not Close’  “All the other early buyers either could not, or would
not, close due to the financial crisis and the fact that real
estate prices were dropping,” Clark said.  Condo markets such as Bellevue, Miami and  Las Vegas  got
overbuilt when debt financing was abundant.  About 4.7 percent of condo loans held by  Fannie Mae  were
“seriously delinquent” in the third quarter, meaning more than
90 days overdue or in  foreclosure , according to data compiled by
Chandan Economics in  New York . That compares with the 4.6
percent delinquency rate of all Fannie Mae home loans, and about
24 percent for  subprime  loans. The delinquency rate for condo
loans peaked at 6.1 percent in the first quarter of 2010.  Lower appraisals and tightening  mortgage-qualification 
standards have made it harder to buy homes. In January, 33
percent of Realtors said they had home-purchase contracts fail,
up from 9 percent who said so a year earlier, according to the
National Association of Realtors.  Lenders Take Control  Bellevue Towers’s senior lenders took control of the
development in December 2010 through a deed in lieu of
foreclosure after Gerding Edlen went into default, said Glasser.  “It was a great project,” said Mark Edlen, chief
executive officer of the development company, which no longer
has a stake in Bellevue Towers. “The market’s the market.” He
declined to comment further.  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley,
declined to comment.  The new owners chose to cut prices and wait out a recovery
instead of converting to rentals or unloading unsold units in
bulk at large discounts, as some other projects have.  At the  Bellevue Towers , where a landscaped courtyard
connects buildings of 42 and 43 stories, a two-bedroom penthouse
on the 41st floor was reduced to $2.6 million from $4.2 million,
while a 13th-floor studio was cut to $289,000 from $481,500.  Revenue of $186.5 million from the 275 unit sales to date
plus the estimated value of $220 million the broker places on
the unsold units add up to about $407 million, less than the
project cost.  ‘Small Profit’  “We are on target to make a small profit but nothing like
what was originally envisioned,” said Niko Paliouras, vice
president of asset management at New York-based Hudson Realty
Capital LLC, part of the lender group that owns Bellevue Towers.
“The management team has done a great job of managing the sales
process up to now and adapting to the market changes,” said
Paliouras, who toured the project six months ago.  “The way the economics are right now, it will be good
fortune if at the end of 2014 we have managed to pay off the
senior loan by selling all the units,” Glasser said.  Compounding the potential revenue shortfall, carrying costs
for Bellevue Towers such as interest on debt, property taxes,
insurance and maintenance fees, have surpassed $10 million a
year so far, said Glasser. As units are sold, the carry costs
will decline, he said.  Tighter mortgage standards haven’t been an obstacle at
Bellevue Towers, as 42 percent of the condo purchasers paid
cash, according to Clark.  Cash Sales  “We have marketed and sold properties since the 1990s and
this is the highest percentage of cash sales we have ever
experienced,” said Clark. At prices 30 to 40 percent less than
the original list, buyers may perceive real estate to be safer
than other investments, he said.  Price cuts are helping shrink the inventory of new condos
in the Seattle-Bellevue area, as in other U.S. markets. There
were 725 unsold new condo units in the Seattle region as of Jan.
31, down from a peak of 4,815 units competing for sales in
October 2007, according to  Portland , Oregon-based  Realty Trust
City Inc. , the broker for Bellevue Towers. At last year’s
average sales rate of 30 units per month, that equates to about
24 months of inventory, said Clark, the Realty Trust broker.  The national inventory of unsold existing condos and
cooperative units fell 32 percent in 2011, to 291,000 units,
from 429,000 units in 2010, according to the National
Association of Realtors.  Condo Boom  The total number of condos in the U.S. jumped 44 percent
from 2003 to 2009, according to the Census Bureau’s American
Housing Surveys for those years, which cover the market peak.
There were 8.74 million condo units nationwide as of 2009, the
most recent date available, up from 6.08 million units in 2003,
according to the surveys.  In Bellevue,  Washington , “we’re overbuilt in condos right
now,” said Magen Michaud, a manager in the Development Services
Department. The city issued no permits for new condo
construction from 2009 through 2011, she said. In 2008, just two
new condo projects were permitted, with a combined 517 units,
about one-third of the record 1,506 units in 2007. Some rental
apartments were included in the 2007 total.  Discounts also invigorated sales at other luxury condo
developments in the region.  Escala , in downtown Seattle, cut
prices as much as 50 percent in March 2010 -- three months after
coming to market and selling just five units, said Erik Mehr,
the broker for the tower, which was financed by  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) ’s RREEF unit. Since then, about 160 units have sold.  The Olive 8 high-rise in downtown Seattle also reduced
prices in the past two years, according to its website.  ‘Losing Money’  While there aren’t any official statistics for sales of new
condos, sales of existing condos show that turnover in the
Seattle-Bellevue area is outpacing many other large cities.  Sales of existing condos in the area rose 14 percent last
year, to 6,916 units, or seven times the average 2 percent
increase for 20 large metropolitan areas, including New York,
 Chicago ,  San Francisco , Miami, Phoenix and Las Vegas, according
to DataQuick, a San Diego-based provider of property data.  Only the areas around Tampa and Miami in Florida and
Portland,  Oregon , had bigger sales increases within the group,
according to DataQuick.  Escala expects 220 of its 269 condos to find buyers by the
end of this year, and the rest probably will be sold in 2013,
Mehr said. Often the most expensive are the last to sell.  “They’re all losing money -- anybody who built at the peak
and has all those carrying costs,” said Mehr. “Maybe instead
of losing $100 million, you’re losing $30 million. That’s a lot
better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  