-- Cow Brain Paste on Testicles? Bon Appetit! From Takashi: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-02-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/cow-brain-paste-on-miso-testicles-bon-appetit-from-takashi-ryan-sutton.html
At Takashi, where diners squirt cow
brains out of toothpaste tubes, you might have to wait 4 1/2
hours for a table. New Yorkers love offal more than ever.  To bypass the line, you only need a foursome to score a
reservation. Or do as I did: Show up at the West Village eatery
before opening. We were seated right away, though it was 5:30
p.m., which is way too early for animal guts, no matter how well
prepared.  By 6 o’clock all 34 seats were filled with people searing
thin-sliced short ribs over tabletop grills. Here’s an
opportunity to use the stopwatch function on your  iPhone  to
monitor cooking times.  There’s a good reason for the crowds:  Takashi  is virtually
unparalleled in its breadth of bovine off-cuts. A cow has four
stomachs; this place serves them all.  The Valentine’s Day special was beef heart chili, which
tasted pretty much like chili, period.  Takashi advertises an all-beef menu. That’s an
exaggeration, though not by much. Foie gras is sometimes served.
The duck liver is encased in under-coated meatballs and over-
sugared chocolate sauce. The kitchen also sends out
complimentary bean sprouts and kimchi to ward off ketosis.  Sayings To Ponder  Japanese-born Korean chef-owner Takashi Inoue, has
decorated the walls with culinary musings -- did you know that
sesame oil improves liver function? -- and the like.  The sake list boasts dry, floral and fruity flavors, mostly
for sub-$30 prices; the best selection is a $16 bottle of
shochu, which has the palate-cleansing robustness of vodka at
about half the alcohol content.  Sure, there are other Korean and Japanese barbecue
restaurants around town. What makes Takashi special are the
sustainably-sourced cattle and the electric grilling. The
absence of charcoal results in cleaner flavors and easier
breathing.  The beef is frequently American Kobe and almost never dry
aged, which means fats are silky and the flesh rarely sports
gamey aftertastes.  Here’s a guide to the various parts of the cow you’ll have
the option of tasting:  Raw liver ($14): Ruminant-style sashimi and not for
beginners. It has the gelatinous texture of carnivorous pate de
fruits, and powerful muskiness.  Squeeze-Brains  Brains ($28): Served in a tube. Evokes bland chicken liver
pate. Comes with mushy hackleback caviar and mealy blini.  Large Intestine ($12): Edible rubber bands. No thanks.  Achilles Tendon ($12): The spicy, shredded tissue is
chilled into a salad that tastes like plastic wrap.  Non-achilles Tendon ($15): Much softer than the ankle
stuff. Takashi turns the connective tissue into a rich, miso-
sweetened casserole. Pair with a glass of earthy El Coto rioja
($12) to supersize the wintery warmth.  Second Stomach ($13): Americans euphemistically call this
honeycomb tripe. Of all the digestive-tract organs, this is the
best for entry-level aficionados. Tastes like wet pet hair,
which is precisely the flavor that intestine-lovers like me are
looking for.  “The Tongue Experience” ($20): The various parts of the
cow tongue, all chewy and delicious, like well-done roast beef.
Those who prefer softer tongue can go to Katz’s Deli afterwards.  Testicles ($12): The kitchen douses the orbs with shiso
garlic butter. They look like big snails and have the texture of
Styrofoam.  Chuck: Takashi gives you a couple of options. It’s best
served raw ($16) as a spaghetti-like tartare with sweet sesame
oil and umami-packed nori. Raw chuck is also wrapped in shiso
($24) with urchin for a quiet study in botanical, maritime and
bovine perfumes. Finally, Takashi serves it as an American-style
Kobe steak ($30) for some hearty, hefty, goodness.  Kobe Short Rib ($25): Koreans like this cut flash-seared,
but I think it’s much more succulent when braised with red wine.
You’re on your own with this one.  Shank ($16): The fall-apart flavors and tenderness of
Italian osso buco inside a steamed bun. Required eating.  Kobe Belly ($18): Fat is flavor and because wagyu is so
soft, the evanescent fat seems to dissolve on the tongue. It’s
Takashi’s best cut.  Kobe Ribeye ($24): Almost as much beefy bliss as the belly,
but with a hint less fat and more rare, bloody deliciousness.
Needs no more than 30 seconds grilling on each side.  Rating: **  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Most dishes under $30.  Sound Level: Around 70; quite reasonable.  Date Place: For adventurous foodies, yes.  Inside Tip: Reservations are easy to come by for parties of
four or more.  Special feature: Just one dessert: soft-serve ice cream.  Back on My Own Dime: Yes.  Takashi is at 456 Hudson Street. Information: +1-212-414-
2929;  http://takashinyc.com .  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to
converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak up, please. 61 to 65: Lean
in if you want to hear your date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one
another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn because you’re yelling. 76
to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 