-- Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Pare Decline After Bernanke Remarks
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-02-29T22:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-pare-decline-after-bernanke-remarks.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. credit
risk pared an earlier decline after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s remarks to Congress damped speculation of new
asset purchases to help the economy.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
was little changed at a mid-price of 93.9 basis points at 5:09
p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. Earlier the
index declined as much as 1 percent.  Bernanke told Congress that maintaining monetary stimulus
is warranted, that rising gasoline prices may push up inflation
temporarily and that the drop in the  unemployment rate  has been
more rapid than expected. He didn’t imply the Fed would initiate
a third round of asset purchases known as  quantitative easing ,
nor extend  Operation Twist (TREFTWIS) , in which it sells short-term and
buys long-term bonds. The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 3 percent
annual rate in the fourth quarter, more than forecast.  “When Bernanke began speaking and well into his testimony
the perception was he sounded less dovish,” said  Adrian Miller ,
a fixed-income strategist at GMP Securities LLC in New York.
“The market wanted to hear explicit comments about QE3
possibilities as well as what the Fed may do when Operation
Twist expires on June 30. Bernanke did neither.”  Bernanke’s comments weren’t necessarily less dovish than
prior testimonies, according to Miller.  ECB Loans  The swaps gauge, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, earlier
touched 92.7 basis points, the lowest since July on an intraday
basis, as the ECB said it will lend banks 529.5 billion euros
($712.2 billion) for 1,092 days, topping the 489 billion euros
handed out to 523 institutions in the first three-year operation
in December. Economists predicted an allotment of 470 billion
euros in today’s tender, according to the median of 28 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate swap spread , a measure of
stress in credit markets, was unchanged at 25.88 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  