-- Croatian Economy Contracted in Fourth Quarter as Exports Slowed
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-02-29T10:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/croatian-economy-contracted-in-fourth-quarter-as-exports-slowed.html
Croatia ’s economy contracted for the
first time in three quarters in the final three months of last
year as  Europe ’s debt crisis damped demand for the Balkan
nation’s exports.  Gross domestic product shrank 0.2 percent from the same
period of the previous year, the statistics office in Zagreb
said today in a preliminary estimate released on its website.
The median estimate of four economists in a Bloomberg survey was
for gross domestic product to drop 0.3 percent. The economy
expanded 0.2 percent for the whole of 2011, the office said.  The Adriatic Sea nation, which is set to become the
European Union’s 28th member in July 2013, is struggling to
recover from a two-year recession. The government hopes a plan
to boost competition and domestic demand will limit the effects
of the crisis and allow the economy to grow 0.8 percent this
year, Finance Minister Slavko Linic said on Jan. 31.  “This year we expect an economic decline, with the extent
depending on developments in the  euro zone  and on the outcome of
the government’s investment strategy,” Zdeslav Santic, chief
economist for Soc-Gen Splitska Banka d.d., said by phone before
the data release. “Capital costs for Croatia are such that they
hinder large investment projects.”  Croatia’s credit rating was lowered a year ago to BBB-, one
step above junk, at  Standard & Poor’s , which cited a
“deteriorated fiscal position and continuously weak” external
financing.  The government last month proposed 4 billion kuna ($700
million) in budget cuts to narrow the deficit to 3.8 percent of
GDP from 5.5 percent in 2011.  Fitch Ratings  said on Feb. 15 the
budget proposal is “encouraging,” adding it will conclude a
ratings review by the end of March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  