-- Curro Shares Advance on Oversold Signal: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-02-29T15:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/curro-shares-advance-on-oversold-signal-johannesburg-mover.html
Curro Holdings Ltd., (COH)  which owns and
operates private schools in  South Africa , advanced the most in
more than three months on speculation the stock’s double-digit
slide this year is overdone.  The shares rose 9.5 percent to 10.99 rand, the largest one-
day gain since Nov. 24, paring its decline this year to 8.4
percent.  The company’s 14-day  relative strength index , which shows
how rapidly prices advanced or dropped during a specified time
period, was at 27 yesterday, the lowest since the company listed
June 3. A reading of 30 or below signals to some technical
analysts prices are set to advance from an oversold position.
Stocks can stay at oversold or overbought positions for an
extended period.  Curro fell 5.5 percent yesterday to a four-month low after
saying it intends to raise 348 million rand ($47 million) in a
rights issue.  “Although it’s good for the company in the long run,
rights issues are never the best news for investors because they
get diluted,” Byron Lotter, a portfolio manager at Vestact
Asset Management in Johannesburg, said by phone. Investors are
now seeing the opportunity to “get involved in the rights issue
which will be at a really good discount to where the share is at
the moment.”  Shareholders have been offered 36 shares for every 100 held
at 6 rand per share, a 48 percent discount to Curro’s 30-day
volume-weighted average traded price as of Feb. 27. The funds
will be partly used to pay for “the rapid expansion” of its
network of private schools, Curro said in a regulatory filing
yesterday.  Curro’s Strength  “I think there is a huge gap in the market for cheap
private education and that there are numerous options for
acquisitions,” Lotter said. “Why I like Curro over its
competitor Advtech is that they are targeting both high-end and
low-end income groups.”  Advtech Ltd. (ADH) , an education, training and placement services
company, dropped 0.3 percent today to 6.58 rand, retreating from
yesterday record close of 6.60 rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  