-- CVC Buys Construction Supplier Ahlsell for 1.8 Billion Euros
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-02-29T15:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/cvc-buys-construction-supplier-ahlsell-for-1-8-billion-euros-1-.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd., the
buyout firm that owns Formula One, agreed to buy Ahlsell AB for
1.8 billion euros ($2.4 billion) to expand in the wholesale
supply of tools, machinery and building products.  CVC is buying the Stockholm-based company from  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Cinven Ltd., according to a statement
today. The deal will be funded with about 9.9 billion Swedish
kronor ($1.5 billion) of leveraged loans, according to two
people with direct knowledge of the deal.  CVC will contribute about 800 million euros of equity to
the company and the senior acquisition debt will represent 4.25
times Ahlsell’s adjusted earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the transaction is private.  “We ended up holding on to it for quite a long time,”
said Guy Davison, a partner at Cinven, in a phone interview.
“CVC know this market quite well. It’s a good business.”  Under CVC’s ownership, Ahlsell made 25 bolt-on
acquisitions, expanding its business across the Nordic region
and Baltics. It also installed a new warehouse. CVC competed
with other private equity firms for the asset, Davison said.  “After six years, you can’t hold on and on and we feel
like we’ve done what we wanted to do,” said Davison.  Deutsche Bank AG,  Barclays Capital , Roschier, Freshfields,
BCG and  KPMG  advised CVC on the deal, according to the
statement. Completion of the deal is subject to competition
clearances.  Investor Discounts  A six-year portion of the debt financing includes a 3
billion-kronor term loan A, a 1 billion-kronor acquisition
facility, and a revolving credit of 500 million kronor, all of
which pay 5 percentage points more than benchmark lending rates,
said the person.  A seven-year 625 million-euro term loan B that pays 5.5
percentage points more than the euro interbank offered rate
completes the deal, which will be offered to investors at a
discount of 98 cents to 99 cents on the euro in the next two
days, one of the people said. A bank meeting will be held in
 London  early next week, the people said.  Nordea Bank AB, Barclays Capital, Deutsche Bank, Goldman
Sachs, DNB NOR Bank ASA and Danske Bank A/S are arranging and
underwriting the deal as bookrunners, the people said. BNP
Paribas SA, Commerzbank AG, Lloyds Banking Group Plc, Nykredit
Bank A/S, SEB AB and UniCredit SpA joined the deal at signing as
non-active bookrunners and mandated lead arrangers, one of the
people said.  The term loan B was initially offered as a 5.4 billion
kronor tranche and was changed to euros due to demand from
investors, said the people. Ed Moore, an external spokesman in
London for CVC, declined to comment.  Cinven and Goldman Sachs bought Ahlsell in 2006 for 1.2
billion euros, according to Cinven’s  website .  Ahlsell, which distributes heating and plumbing products
and other construction equipment in the Nordic region,  Russia 
and Eastern Europe, employs about 4,500 people and reported
revenue of 2.3 billion euros in 2011, CVC said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  