-- Cyprus Prepared to Support Banks If Needed, Orphanides Says
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-02-29T16:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/cyprus-prepared-to-support-banks-if-needed-orphanides-says.html
The Central Bank of Cyprus is
prepared to support Cypriot banks hurt by Greek debt writedowns,
central bank Governor Athanasios Orphanides said.  “The central bank in cooperation with the finance minister
has elaborated a plan to support banks so that in case a bank
should need support, the state will be ready to provide
assistance,” Orphanides, who is also member of the  European
Central Bank ’s governing council, told reporters in Nicosia
today. “The central bank has full faith in the banking system
and there is no reason for scaremongering or concern.”  Recapitalization plans submitted to the central bank by
Bank of Cyprus, the island’s largest lender, and Marfin Popular
Bank, the second biggest, were examined and considered
“satisfactory,” Orphanides said. Bank of Cyprus will need 400
million euros ($536 million) and Marfin 1.35 billion euros to
bring their Core 1 capital ratio to 9 percent, he added.  The profitability of Cypriot banks “was better compared to
what was expected,” Orphanides said. Bank of Cyprus and Marfin
posted losses of 1 billion euros and 3.3 billion euros
respectively for 2011. Hellenic Bank, the third-largest lender,
had a loss of 100 million euros.  Finance Minister Kikis Kazamias said that while the
financial situation of Cypriot banks “is manageable,” lenders
should implement their recapitalization plans by “exhausting
all opportunities available to raise required capital from the
private sector.”  The banks should start first with their existing
shareholders and then try to attract new investors, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  