-- D’Ieteren Drops as Earnings Seen Declining 25%: Brussels Mover
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-02-29T19:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/d-ieteren-drops-as-earnings-seen-declining-25-brussels-mover.html
D’Ieteren SA (DIE) , the Belgian owner of
the world’s largest vehicle-glass replacement company, fell the
most in nine years on Euronext Brussels after forecasting 2012
earnings that missed analysts’ estimates.  D’Ieteren plunged 4.42 euros, or 11 percent, to 36.22 euros
at the 5:40 p.m. close of  trading , the biggest decline since
June 2002. Pretax profit excluding one-time items will decline
about 25 percent from 305.8 million euros ($411.7 million) last
year, the Brussels-based company said yesterday in a statement.  “The main disappointment came from the weak 2012
guidance,” Emmanuel Carlier, an analyst at ING Groep NV in
Brussels, wrote in an investor note. He projected a 13 percent
drop in earnings this year. “Management  guidance  is extremely
prudent, as usual.”  D’Ieteren’s forecast assumes sales of new cars in  Belgium 
will drop more than 13 percent after buyers rushed to register
cars in December before government incentives for low-emission
models expired and a change in tax rules on company-fleet cars.
Chief Executive Officer Jean-Pierre Bizet also forecast profit
will decline at the Belron windshield business.  Sales at Belron excluding acquisitions and currency effects
dropped 0.9 percent last year, led by a 4.6 percent decline in
Europe that worsened in the final quarter, in a market that
faced a 7 percent contraction, according to D’Ieteren. Bizet
said Belron, which has operations in 33 countries, may have no
so-called organic growth this year following a “pretty poor”
first quarter because of milder-than-usual winter weather at the
end of last year.  ‘Extraordinary Years’  “The majority of the decline is due to the  automobile
distribution , a minority to Belron,” Bizet told analysts and
reporters in Brussels today. “Our guidance is prudent, but we
haven’t made changes to our level of prudency. I hope you’ll
recognize we had  extraordinary years  in both 2010 and 2011.”  The forecast also takes into account a 2 percent decline
that’s due to the creation of a joint venture with Volkswagen
AG’s financial-services unit for the leasing operations in
Belgium. D’Ieteren’s earnings this year will reflect its 50
percent ownership in the combined leasing business.  Bizet also said D’Ieteren has made little progress so far
with the reinvestment of the proceeds it got from selling its
majority holding in Avis  Europe  Plc.  “We haven’t found a business we’re jumping up and down to
buy,” he said, adding that D’Ieteren hasn’t set a deadline for
spending the 409 million euros it got from the disposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  