-- Danish Bonds Surviving Triple Threats Spawn Debt Funding Risks: Mortgages
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-02-29T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/danish-bonds-crisis-resilience-spawns-funding-risks-mortgages.html
Denmark ’s $470 billion mortgage bond
market has proven resilient to the stresses of the country’s
real-estate slump, banking failures and Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis. Now the system’s success is helping lenders and
borrowers to take on greater risks.  Issuers have grown increasingly reliant on short-term
financing to back 30-year mortgages, a year after the central
bank in Copenhagen said the world’s third-largest mortgage bond
market was becoming less safe because of the mismatch. Even as
securities with maturities under five years now back 68 percent
of all outstanding home loans, investors are shrugging off
concerns, with an  index  of Denmark’s most-traded mortgage bonds
reaching a record last month.  “Though the Danish covered  bond market  has shown
resilience historically, we do not deem it to be immune to the
stresses that affect other types of market funding,” Alexander Zeidler, an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, said in an
interview. “There has been a shift from the traditional bonds,
which did not have refinancing risks, to bonds today which have
significant refinancing risk.”  Lenders including Nykredit A/S and Realkredit Danmark A/S
are luring borrowers with cheaper loans as Denmark moves away
from the 30-year fixed-rate bonds that once dominated offerings.
Since the 1996 debut of adjustable-rate mortgages, which
homeowners refinance by tapping bond markets as often as
annually, repayment risks for investors have grown, according to
Moody’s. Central bank Governor Nils Bernstein in March last year
said adjustable-rate mortgage bonds pose a refinancing risk as
part of their “product design.”  200-Year Default History  Notes with maturities of one to five years backed 70
percent of gross mortgage lending in the fourth quarter, versus
50 percent in the second, the  Association of Danish Mortgage
Banks  estimates. The industry, which hasn’t registered a default
on its bonds in its 200-year history, argues Moody’s and the
central bank are overstating the issue.  “Adjustable-rate mortgages have helped to stabilize the
economy,” said Jesper Berg, head of ratings and regulatory
affairs at Nykredit,  Europe ’s biggest issuer of covered bonds
backed by home loans. He argues mortgage lenders fed loans to
the economy just as banks withdrew credit at the height of the
financial crisis.  Credit Crunch  “There’s a very big awareness that in order to protect the
country from a credit crunch, it’s important that the system
works and that it works well,” Berg said.  Homeowners have snapped up the adjustable-rate mortgages,
and even snubbed the option of locking into rates as low as 3.5
percent for 30 years as they bet it will still be cheap to
borrow 12 months from now. Auctions to refinance bonds that
matured Jan. 1 sent one-year rates below 2 percent.  Robyn Pihl, a marketing strategist who lives in central
Copenhagen, remortgaged her apartment last month, swapping her 5
percent 30-year loan for an adjustable-rate mortgage. She’ll pay
1.2 percent interest for the next three years before the rate is
reset in 2015.  “ Interest rates  are so low now it seems silly not to take
advantage of it,” said Pihl, 50, whose interest payments will
drop by two-thirds thanks to the switch. “I’m choosing to
gamble that rates will not be over 5 percent in three years.”  Record-low rates have encouraged homeowners to take on more
debt. Danes have the world’s highest ratio of debt at 310
percent of incomes in 2010, Exane BNP Paribas estimates.
 Household debt  has swelled from 158 percent since 2000 as
mortgage banks developed cheaper loans to attract borrowers.  Denmark AAA Rating  Denmark, one of only 12 nations with AAA ratings at Moody’s
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, will see its economy grow
1.1 percent this year, the European Commission said on Feb. 23.
The 17-member euro region will shrink 0.3 percent as eight of
its members suffer economic contractions, the commission
estimates.  The Danish mortgage bond market differs from other
countries’ in several key respects. When a homeowner in Denmark
takes out a loan, the mortgage is immediately converted into a
security of the same amount. A homeowner can then retire a
mortgage either by paying off the loan or by purchasing an
equivalent face value of the bonds at the market price. The
mortgages also stay on the issuer’s balance sheet.  Danes call this the  balance principle . Mortgage issuers
take the credit risk, providing reserves in case a borrower
defaults. Investors face a risk on interest-rate fluctuations.
There are no government-sponsored companies involved in the
market, in contrast with the U.S.  Soros Advocates  George Soros , the billionaire investor and philanthropist,
started a joint venture with VP Securities A/S in 2005 to
establish the model in Mexico and he’s argued a similar system
should be adopted in the U.S.  The  Nykredit Mortgage Bond Index (NYKRINDX) , which includes the
largest, most-traded of the securities, has returned 7.7 percent
in the past year and has advanced about 21 percent since the end
of 2008. That compares with a gain of 11.9 percent for U.S.
Treasuries.  The index reached a record last month even after bad real
estate and farming loans led to three  bank failures  last year,
two of which pushed losses on to senior creditors and caused
most of Denmark’s 120 banks to be shut out of funding markets.
 Home prices  in the country are projected to fall 25 percent by
2013 since the global credit crisis.  Central Bank Warning  Still, the introduction of new securities such as the
adjustable-rate mortgage bonds has prompted the central bank to
warn of imbalances in the home-loan market. Interest-only loans,
which the central bank says are exacerbating price volatility in
the  property market , were sold starting in 2003. So-called
capped floaters, which offer a floating interest rate with a
ceiling on how high borrower costs can rise, came in 2004.  Moody’s downgraded Nykredit in July and said the lender’s
bonds stood to lose their top credit grade unless extra
collateral was set aside to mitigate refinancing risks. The
Copenhagen-based lender responded by ring-fencing its issuance
of bonds backing adjustable-rate mortgages to protect the rest
of its business. Its adjustable-rate bonds are rated Aa1,
compared with the Aaa grade the fixed-rate bonds carry.  Nykredit also split its financing for adjustable-rate
loans, with bonds financing the first 60 percent of the loan-to-
value ratio backed by the strictest collateral requirements and
the next 20 percent adhering to laxer rules. Nykredit says that
creates more transparency for investors and reduces the
potential risks.  “Introducing two-tier mortgaging means for us risk
shifting,” said Moody’s Zeidler. “The overall risk would be
the same but the risk might be shifted from one capital centre
to another.”  Fired Moody’s  Realkredit Danmark, which is owned by Denmark’s biggest
lender  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , in June fired Moody’s after being told
it would need to boost the collateral backing its bonds by more
than $6 billion to maintain a top rating. BRFKredit A/S,
Denmark’s fourth-biggest mortgage bank, terminated its contract
with Moody’s in October citing a disagreement over risk
assessments.  The central bank in a December report urged mortgage
lenders to do more to cut risk, arguing that any ripples in the
industry would have consequences that could “potentially be big
if many loans are affected simultaneously.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  