-- Davy Jones, Made-for-TV Singer in the Monkees, Dies at 66
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-02-29T20:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/davy-jones-lead-singer-of-made-for-tv-band-the-monkees-dies-at-age-66.html
Davy Jones, the accidental pop-music
star who lent his voice to songs such as “Daydream Believer”
as a singer of the made-for-television band the Monkees, has
died. He was 66.  Jones died today of a heart attack in Indiantown, Florida,
where he lived, according to the  Associated Press , citing Helen
Kensick, his publicist.  The British-born Jones started his career on stage, then
signed with Columbia Pictures/Screen Gems Television, which
became his route to pop music.  The Monkees, the band, began as “The Monkees,” the TV
show, which ran on NBC from 1966 to 1968 and followed the
misadventures of a fictional musical quartet of Jones, Micky Dolenz, Peter Tork and Michael Nesmith. The fast-paced hijinks
were inspired by “A Hard Day’s Night,” the 1964 mock-
documentary about, and starring, the Beatles.  In real life, away from their scripted TV show, the Monkees
drew a huge fan base to their music. Their debut record, in
1966, produced three Top 20 gold singles -- “I’m a Believer,’’
“Last Train to Clarksville’’ and “Steppin’ Stone.’’ Later
hits included “Little Bit Me, Little Bit You.’’ Dolenz, who
played drums, and Jones shared primary singing duties.  Becoming David Bowie  Jones’s popularity was such that another David
Jones who broke into recording in 1966 changed his name to avoid
confusion, becoming  David Bowie .  The Rolling Stone Encyclopedia of Rock & Roll calls the
Monkees “the first, and arguably the best, of the prefabricated
60s and 70s pop groups” manufactured by TV executives to
capitalize on the frenzy known as Beatlemania. The Partridge
Family was another such group of made-for-TV musicians.  He was small of stature and gentle in demeanor.  “I used
to be 5 feet 4 inches,” (163 centimeters) he told the U.K.’s
Daily Mail in 2011, “but I’ve lost an inch.”  He became a family-friendly heartthrob to a generation of
girls in the 1960s and 1970s. Jones may have made his biggest
television splash on an episode of “The Brady Bunch” in which
he appears as Marcia Brady’s dream prom date come true.  Jones enjoyed a career in music long after his television
show ended. In an interview published in January in the
Republican newspaper of Springfield,  Massachusetts , publicizing
a free concert he would be giving at the Mohegan Sun Casino Wolf
Den, he said he would have been happy had the show kept going.  ‘Kiss the Girls’  “I just wanted to be in the show, fall in love twice in
each episode and kiss the girls,” he said. “I had no ambition
to be  Steven Spielberg  or Cecil B. DeMille.”  According to the article, Jones said he was happily married
to his third wife, Jessica Pacheco, and was trying “to be very
positive today in my life.”  “I have a beautiful wife, four great daughters, and
several grandchildren, and I’m close to them all,” he told the
newspaper.  David Jones  was born on Dec. 30, 1945, in Manchester,
 England . According to a biography on the  website  of his manager,
New York-based Roger Paul Inc., Jones began entertaining at age
11 on the ITV soap opera “Coronation Street.”  Encouraged to try the London stage, he portrayed the Artful
Dodger in “Oliver!,” a West End production of the Charles
Dickens tale “Oliver Twist.” At 16, he originated that role on
Broadway and was nominated for a  Tony Award .  The Monkees regrouped on occasion, including for the 1996
studio album “Justus.” A 1997 U.K. tour ended in acrimony and
left Jones vowing never to try again, he told the Stuart News
newspaper in  Florida  in 2006.  “I would not work with those guys again if my life
depended on it,” Jones told the newspaper. An avid horseman,
Jones owned a home in rural Indiantown for 20 years and also
spent time in  Pennsylvania , the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  