-- Dollar Rises Versus Euro, Yen as Bernanke Comments Damp Easing Speculation
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-02-29T22:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/dollar-rises-versus-euro-yen-as-bernanke-comments-damp-easing-speculation.html
The dollar rallied against the euro
and yen after comments from Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  reduced speculation the central bank will provide more
monetary stimulus.  The dollar erased earlier losses after Bernanke said there
are “positive developments” in the labor market, adding that
“the job market remains far from normal.” The shared currency
weakened earlier after the  European Central Bank  awarded 529.5
billion euros ($705 billion) in a second round of three-year
loans to banks, increasing the supply of euros. Higher-yielding
currencies pared gains against the dollar and Treasuries fell.  “Bernanke’s cautious optimism did come from left field in
terms of a hard reminder for euro-dollar traders that the
development of balance sheets is the most important factor
driving currencies,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency
research with the online-trading firm GFT Forex in New York.
“That the Fed didn’t feel any type of urgency to expand their
balance sheets was very positive for the dollar.”  The dollar rose 0.9 percent to 81.15 yen at 5 p.m. in New
York after earlier falling as much as 0.3 percent. The greenback
surged 1 percent to $1.3325 per euro and the common currency
fell 0.2 percent to 108.13 yen.  Brazil ’s real was the biggest loser among the major
currencies after the nation said it’s considering measures to
stem gains in the real, the world’s second best performing major
currency this year after  Mexico ’s peso, a government official
familiar with internal discussions said.  The real dropped 1.3 percent to 1.7174 per dollar. The
currency earlier gained as much as 0.4 percent to 1.6890, the
strongest level since Oct. 31.  ‘Positive Developments’  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, rose 0.7 percent to 78.805.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a “modest to moderate pace”
in January and early February, fueled by manufacturers,
including automakers, the Fed said today in its Beige Book
business survey.  “We have seen some positive developments in the labor
market,” Bernanke said in prepared testimony to the House
Financial Services Committee in  Washington . He said keeping
monetary stimulus is warranted even as the  unemployment rate 
falls.  The  unemployment rate  dropped to a three-year low of 8.3
percent in January, and a government report today showed that
the economy expanded at a 3 percent pace in the fourth quarter,
up from an initial estimate of 2.8 percent.  Quantitative Easing  Bernanke said that “in light of the somewhat different
signals received recently from the labor market than from
indicators of final demand and production, however, it will be
especially important to evaluate incoming information to assess
the underlying pace of economic recovery.”  The Fed has bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of
so-called quantitative easing from December 2008 until June
2011. Central bank officials were keeping open the option of a
third round of bond purchases at their January meeting in case
the economy weakens or inflation falls too low.  The 17-nation euro declined versus most of its 16 major
counterparts as the ECB auction of three-year loans surpassed
the 470 billion euros forecast by economists. The Frankfurt-
based central bank said it will lend the funds to 800 financial
institutions. In its first three-year refinancing operation in
December, 523 banks borrowed 489 billion euros.  “The big market reaction in recent days has been in the
degree to which short-term spreads between Spain and  Italy  have
converged with respect to  Germany ,” said Steven Englander, head
of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in  New York .  Narrowing Spread  The difference, or spread, between Spanish two-year bond
yields and those of similar-maturity German bunds has narrowed
to 213 basis points, or 2.13 percentage points, from as high as
563 basis points in November. The spread between two-year
Italian bond yields and bunds narrowed to 195 basis points
today, from a high of 720 basis points in November.  Bond yields rose earlier in  Portugal , prompting the ECB to
buy the nation’s government bonds, according to two people with
knowledge of the transactions who declined to be identified
because the trades are confidential.  The yield on two-year Portuguese notes fell 10 basis
points, after rising as much as 37 basis points, to 12.70
percent.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell 0.5 percent and the
yield on 10-year Treasuries rose three basis points to 1.97
percent.  South Africa ’s rand fell 0.5 percent against the dollar to
7.5063 after earlier rising as much as 0.9 percent.  The yen fell against all of its 16 major counterparts this
month, dropping 8 percent against nine developed-nation
currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes. The dollar fell 1.4 percent and  Norway ’s krone, the
best performer among the 10 currencies, rose 3.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  