-- Dow Says Olympic Sponsorship Opposition ‘Beyond Belief’
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-03-01T17:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/dow-ceo-says-indian-opposition-to-olympics-sponsorship-is-beyond-belief-.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  Chief Executive
Officer  Andrew Liveris  said opposition to his company’s
sponsorship of the 2012 London Olympics is “beyond belief”
because Dow wasn’t involved with the 1984 toxic gas leak in
Bhopal that killed thousands of people.  “It was not us,” Liveris said in a Feb. 28 interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York . “The fact that you can
speak back with science and fact rather than emotion and
hysteria is your only defense.”  The London games, which start in July, are the first for
Midland, Michigan-based Dow under a 10-year sponsorship
agreement with the  International Olympic Committee . Indian
Olympic Association President Vijay Malhotra said in December he
would lodge a protest with the IOC and the U.K. government, and
20,000 people have signed a petition asking British authorities
to drop Dow.  Liveris, 57, who runs the largest U.S. chemical producer,
said it isn’t surprising that there have been protests in the
U.K. given the country’s large Indian community.  “We are on the ground there describing to everyone that
will listen to us, including the newspapers, what our
involvement is with the Olympics and what our involvement wasn’t
with Bhopal,” Liveris said.  Union Carbide Accident  An accident at the Union Carbide pesticide plant on Dec. 3,
1984, released methyl isocyanate gas into the streets of Bhopal,
the capital of Madhya Pradesh state in central India. Union
Carbide estimated that  3,800 people  were killed by the leak.
 Amnesty International , a human-rights group, commissioned a
study that showed 7,000 perished within days and another 15,000
died later from exposure to the gas.  Dow acquired Union Carbide Corp. in 2001, about 16 years
after the accident and 10 years after the Indian Supreme Court
approved a  $470 million  settlement paid by Union Carbide and
Union Carbide India.  “To keep coming back to the notion that you acquire a
company where there is a bright line on the liability that was
settled way beyond your time, and to hook you into that event,
it’s beyond belief that people are still trying that,” Liveris
said.  “The obvious reason people are trying that is because we
are a healthy company with deep pockets that people want a
second bite of the cherry on,” he said. “I keep saying,
‘Please go to  India , please talk to the government of India and
please work it out with them.’”  Olympic Sponsorships  The IOC said in July 2010 that the top sponsoring companies
may pay an average of $90 million for the four-year cycle ending
in 2014.  India’s Malhotra said in December he was embarking on a
worldwide campaign to raise awareness about Dow’s Olympic
involvement.  “The Olympics is about friendship, love and creating
goodwill among nations, while this company is linked with the
deaths of thousands of Indians,” Malhotra said at the time.
“It’s unacceptable that this company sponsors the Olympics.”  Malhotra wasn’t available to comment today, according to a
person at his office in  New Delhi .  WikiLeaks Postings  Dow has been monitoring media coverage of Bhopal, including
activists such as The Yes Men, according to e-mails  hacked  from
 Stratfor , an Austin, Texas-based intelligence provider, that
were posted this week on the WikiLeaks website. WikiLeaks is an
organization that publishes secret government and corporate
documents online.  Liveris confirmed Dow hired a company to monitor the issue.  “I find it quite interesting that WikiLeaks is out there
making a business out of this,” Liveris said. “We hire lots of
people to help us with lots of issues. It’s public affairs.”  Liveris said he has no regrets about sponsoring the
Olympics.  “We are very proud to be associated, and for that matter
the IOC is very proud to have us,” he said.  Dow has supported the Olympics for more than three decades
and “is committed to good corporate citizenship,” Emmanuelle Moreau, a Lausanne, Switzerland-based IOC spokeswoman, said
today in an e-mailed statement.  “The IOC recognizes that the Union Carbide Bhopal gas
disaster in 1984 was a very tragic event,” Moreau said. “The
IOC understands that Dow never owned or operated the facility in
Bhopal, and that the State Government of Madhya Pradesh owns and
controls the former plant site.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  