-- Japan’s Ruling Party Seeks Greater Oversight of Asset Managers After AIJ
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2012-03-01T03:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/dpj-panel-seeks-outside-auditors-for-asset-managers-after-aij-okubo-says.html
Japan ’s ruling party is seeking to
amend laws to require stricter oversight of asset management
firms in a bid to avoid a recurrence of the AIJ Investment
Advisors Co. case.  The  Democratic Party  of Japan set up a panel that met today
to discuss measures including requiring external audits for
privately owned asset management firms. It will also consider
expanding responsibilities of trust banks and life insurers as
custodians of fund assets, Tsutomu Okubo, a member of the
subcommittee, said in an interview in Tokyo yesterday.  Japan’s financial regulator yesterday began its biggest
investigation of asset managers following the Feb. 24 suspension
of AIJ, which has failed to account for the more than $2 billion
it oversaw for clients, including pension funds. The case has
raised concern over the safety of retirement assets in Japan,
where more than a fifth of the population is over 65.  “The AIJ issue affects 880,000 people and can’t be
ignored,” Renho, a former government revitalization minister who
is leading the panel, told reporters in  Tokyo  today after the
meeting. “We’ll do what we can to ease public concern over their
pension money,” said Renho, 44, who goes by one name.  The panel, made up of 10 politicians from Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda ’s DPJ, will also discuss whether the Financial
Services Agency should hire inspectors with backgrounds in the
hedge fund industry, said Okubo, a former Morgan Stanley
executive.  May Be Insufficient  Expanding monitoring within Japan alone may be insufficient
because asset managers often allocate clients’ money to funds
offshore, said Toshiyuki Maeda, head of financial research
division at NLI Research Institute. Custodians in Japan rely on
statements forwarded by their counterparts abroad, he said.  “There would be a bottleneck or loophole even if Japan
tightens regulations and local trust banks increase their
oversight,” Maeda said. “Instead of tighter local regulation,
alliances between countries may be needed as a decisive step.”  At least one of AIJ’s funds, AIM Millennium, was registered
in the  Cayman Islands , according to presentation materials
provided to a pension fund that were obtained by Bloomberg News.  AIJ had 122 contracts with domestic corporate pensions and
one with a foreign investor as of March 2011, according to
filings with Japan Securities Investment Advisers Association.
The Tokyo-based firm managed 185.3 billion yen ($2.3 billion) of
clients’ assets as of that date, labor ministry figures show.  Amendment Bill  Regulators have determined that AIJ currently holds about 4
billion yen of cash and deposits and it’s unclear what happened
to the remaining assets, the Nikkei newspaper reported today,
citing securities investigators.  Okubo, 50, expects a bill to amend the Financial
Instruments and Exchange Law will win Cabinet approval as early
as mid-March and then be sent to the Diet. Under the current
legislation, closely held asset management firms don’t need to
hire external auditors to review their business reports.  “The social impact from the AIJ issue is huge, and we want
to avoid a second or third case like this,” Okubo said. “We
need a swift remedy to prevent a repeat of this.”  A total of 265 asset managers nationwide will submit status
reports to the FSA by March 14, the agency said yesterday. The
reports must contain details of a firm’s operations, contracts
and their amounts, and any past complaints from customers.  Based on the responses, the regulator will compile a
shortlist by late March of companies that may need extra
investigation, a senior FSA official said at a press briefing on
condition of anonymity because of the agency’s policy.  Financial Services Minister  Shozaburo Jimi  pledged this
week to consider revamping the inspection and supervision of
pension asset managers, saying his agency won’t rule out any
step to prevent cases like AIJ’s.  AIJ hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing following its
suspension. Any action against it depends on the findings by the
Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission, the financial
watchdog under the agency, Jimi said on Feb. 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 