-- DSM Chief Seeks Poet-Style Ethanol Tie-ups From Brazil to China
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-02-29T16:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/dsm-chief-seeks-poet-style-ethanol-tie-ups-from-brazil-to-china.html
Royal DSM NV, the Dutch enzyme maker
which last month set up a cellulosic ethanol venture with Poet
LLC, is seeking similar tie-ups in Brazil,  China  and  Europe ,
Chief Executive Officer Feike Sijbesma said.  DSM last month said it’s providing half of the funding for
a $250 million plant in Emmetsburg,  Iowa , and Poet, the largest
U.S. corn-based ethanol producer, is financing the rest. The
factory, attached to an existing corn ethanol plant, will make
up to 25 million gallons of ethanol from corn stover, the crop’s
waste product.  “We want to expand this model into other regions in the
world including Brazil,” Sijbesma said today in an interview in
 London . “Now we talk about the U.S., about corn stover. We can
expand this to other regions of the world with other materials.
We can go to  Brazil , we can go to China, we can go to Europe.”  DSM is betting on so-called second-generation ethanol,
which is made from grasses and agricultural waste rather than
food crops, as one of two new “growth platforms” that combined
can spur $1 billion of revenue for the Heerlen-based company in
2020, Sijbesma said. The new plant, which will open next year,
could generate $100 million in sales by 2014, he said.  Sijbesma declined to specify if DSM is in talks with
specific potential partners in other parts of the world, saying
only: “We know this whole industry. The whole world knows us.”  DSM’s venture with Poet helped force down the shares of
Danish rival Novozymes A/S, which had been working with the U.S.
distiller. Sijbesma said Poet’s existing contract with Novozymes
will be “respected” and then phased out, with DSM supplying
both the enzymes and yeast for the Emmetsburg facility. The
intention then is to license the technology to other ethanol
producers, and Poet’s other plants, he said.  Enzyme Costs  The enzymes used to make cellulosic ethanol currently cost
more than 50 cents per gallon, and DSM expects to bring that
down to 30-35 cents “in the longer term,” according to
Sijbesma. Novozymes Chief Executive Officer Steen Riisgaard said
last year that the enzyme costs amounted to about 50 cents per
gallon.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency sets annual
mandates for the amount of cellulosic ethanol that must be
blended into gasoline, and has had to reduce the target for the
past two years because of a lack of commercial production of the
fuel. The mandates will allow for 200 to 300 second-generation
plants to be built, according to Sijbesma.  “Every year they will look how much production there is
for second-generation biofuels and they will say that amount has
to be mixed,” he said.  Riisgaard last year predicted 2013 would be the year
second-generation biofuels take off, with the first commercial
plants, including plans by Poet, London-based BP Plc and Abengoa
SA of Seville,  Spain . Sijbesma said DSM was motivated to invest
in the Poet facility to help create the market.  “We have talked about second-generation biofuels already
for years and it is not happening,” Sijbesma said. “You can
have enzymes and yeasts but if it’s not happening, then you can
supply to nobody. At the end of the day you need to push the
boundary to take a step forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  