-- Heartless Bastards Rock off Ohio Core, Austin Guitar: NYC Music
-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 2012-02-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/heartless-bastards-rock-latest-album-with-ohio-austin-quartet-nyc-music.html
Rock ‘n’ roll was alive and well at
 Webster Hall  on Feb. 24 as pint-sized Erika Wennerstrom led the
Heartless Bastards along the road to inevitable mainstream
success.  Only blue sparkling lights dressed the stage, yet the
mostly-Ohio quartet’s raw rock required no extra flare. The
opener, “Marathon,” from their latest record, “Arrow,”
offered a stripped-down number with an occasional cymbal clash
and Wennerstrom’s vocals yearning to be back home.  For “Arrow,” Wennerstrom brought back two studio-mates
from sessions that produced 2005’s “Stairs and Elevators”:
drummer Dave Colvin and bassist Jesse Ebaugh. She added Austin
guitarist Mark Nathan to the mix. It’s this return to true form
and some extra hanging guitar notes that has the ‘Arrow’
sounding like a hymn to the essence of classic rock.  The band continued with new material. Colvin’s rolling
drums carried the pace for “Parted Ways,” while Nathan’s
ripping solos intertwined with Wennerstrom’s escalating vocals.
The gritty and groovy “Got to Have Rock And Roll” ensued. The
tune featured some choppy guitar riffs and muffled bass lines
that served well to getting the crowd into bobble-head mode.  Wennerstrom strapped on her electric guitar for the heavy,
bluesy “Blue Day” from their 2006 release, “All This Time.”
She came back to the present with the acoustic and mellowed
“Only for You,” with Nathan’s twangy solo gently taking this
one to a smooth landing.  Vocalist Heidi Johnson joined them for the “Arrow”
centerpiece, “The Arrow Killed The Beast.” The lights
oscillated from yellow to red -- perhaps to match the song’s sun
imagery -- and a calming strum of Wennerstrom’s acoustic mixed
with Nathan’s breezy riff. It was low-key yet packed a big punch
that left the crowd mute.  Back to Heavy  The show returned to heaviness when the band launched into
“The Mountain,” the title track from their 2009 ode to
Americana, followed by the bouncy and warm rocker “Sway.” The
moment continued to peak as “Hold Your Head High” took us down
the slow and steady lane before veering into a high-gear ending.  The new and Lynyrd Skynyrd-like “Late in the Night”
featured big voice, big beats and big solos before the epic
“Down in the Canyon,” from “Arrow,” an up and down sonic
ride.  Encores included the jovial title track from “All This
Time,” which spawned mass pogoing, and “Nothing Seems the
Same.” As the crowd scattered downtown, recent bouts of head-
banging were recalled with sore necks and smiles.  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in March. Please
note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows marked (SO)
are sold out, although online services such as Craigslist often
have tickets.  (Jaime Widder works in sales for Bloomberg News. Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in  New York  at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 