-- ECB’s Second Three-Year Loan May Be Last
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-02-29T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/ecb-s-second-tranche-of-three-year-loans-may-be-the-last-as-crisis-abates.html
The  European Central Bank  may decide
all good things must come to an end after today’s allocation of
long-term loans.  The ECB’s three-year lending may approach a total of 1
trillion euros ($1.35 trillion) when the second Long Term
Refinancing Operation is allocated at 11:15 a.m. in  Frankfurt .
Banks will ask for 470 billion euros, according to the median of
28 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey, after taking 489
billion euros at the first tender in December.  While the flood of three-year cash has been credited with
fueling a rally on  Europe ’s crisis-roiled bond markets and
safeguarding the region’s banks, the ECB will be reluctant to
issue a third tranche, according to Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG.
Doing so would fan tensions among ECB policy makers and reduce
pressure on governments and banks to fortify balance sheets
themselves, the analysts said.  “There will only be another LTRO if markets really turn
sour again,” said  Gilles Moec , co-chief European economist at
Deutsche Bank in London and a former Bank of France official.
“If we stay on the current course in markets, there is no
necessity to risk dissent.”  Council Tensions  The size of the December loans prompted German ECB council
member Jens Weidmann to warn that the central bank mustn’t
“lose sight of its mandate” to control inflation by taking on
“excessive risks.” Austrian council member Ewald Nowotny said
on Feb. 27 he would “warn against the idea” that very long-
term loans will become “a regular feature” of ECB policy.  “If number one was a success and number two was a success,
that doesn’t mean there has to be number three,” Nowotny said.  In the wake of the ECB’s first three-year loan on Dec. 21,
the central bank’s balance sheet  ballooned  to a record 2.74
trillion euros. It may reach another record after the second
tranche. Banks are likely to roll about 100 billion euros of
existing ECB loans into the new facility; anything above that
would represent fresh lending.  The level of demand will provide insight into the health of
European banks and their investment intentions.  Economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. say an allocation of 400
billion euros or more would signal banks are borrowing in order
to lend and invest. Credit Suisse Group AG economists say
anything below 200 billion euros would imply banks are less
willing to use the ECB cash to buy into bond markets,
potentially hurting so-called peripheral governments by driving
up their borrowing costs.  Sarkozy Trade  While the aim of the loans is to relieve liquidity strains
in the region and get credit flowing to companies and
households, a byproduct has been the so-called “Sarkozy
trade,” where yield-hunting banks use some of the cash to buy
sovereign bonds -- an idea first floated by French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy .  Since the December loans, yields on the two-year bonds of
Spain and  Italy  have fallen to less than 2.5 percent from 3.6
percent and 5 percent respectively. Bloomberg’s Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index has rallied 15 percent this year and
the Euro Stoxx 50 Index of stocks is up 8 percent.  The three-year funds cost the average of the ECB’s
 benchmark interest rate , currently at a record-low 1 percent,
over the period of the loans and banks have the option of
repaying them after a year.  ‘Every Incentive’  For all their success, no more three-year tenders are
currently scheduled beyond today.  The ECB has “every incentive” not to offer any more long-
term funding, UBS analysts including Alastair Ryan said in a
Feb. 22 note to clients. Providing money for so long against a
broad range of collateral threatens its balance sheet and could
encourage politicians to slow their austerity pushes, they said.  The cheap money also masks a failure by the region’s banks
to bolster capital, said Huw van Steenis, an analyst at Morgan
Stanley in  London . He estimates European banks must cut leverage
by about 2.5 trillion euros over the next 18 months and by as
much as 4.5 trillion euros by 2018.  “History suggests that European banks have a long way to
go and the LTRO will slow, but not stop the process,” van
Steenis said.  ECB council members from  Germany , the Netherlands,  Finland 
and Luxembourg would probably oppose an extension of the LTRO
for fear of over-reaching their mandate or distorting markets,
said Moec at Deutsche Bank. Some officials have already
questioned the ECB’s willingness to widen the pool of collateral
it accepts for the loans.  Job ‘Not Done’  “It’s probably at the top of what the central bank can
do,” said Moec. “It wouldn’t make sense to push things to a
heated debate internally.”  Marchel Alexandrovich, an economist at Jefferies
International Ltd. in London, is less convinced and says another
LTRO could be delivered in a couple of months if the economy
weakens.      “They’re trying to put out the fire, but the job’s
not done,” he said.  For now, the lack of a follow up means the positive effect
of the initiative on stocks “will peter out soon,” according
to equity strategists at HSBC Holdings Inc., who say they’re
cautious about the 2012 outlook for global equities.  Fixed income analysts at Nomura International Plc predict
bond yields in peripheral euro countries will begin “drifting
higher” once the support fades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  