-- ECB 3-Year Loans Will Boost Euro, Sovereign Debt Markets: Analyst Comments
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-02-29T13:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/ecb-3-year-loans-will-boost-euro-sovereign-debt-markets-analyst-comments.html
Strategists comment on the  European
Central Bank ’s record allocation of three-year loans. The
Frankfurt-based ECB said today it will lend 800 financial
institutions 529.5 billion euros ($712.1 billion) in the longer-
term refinancing operation.  The comments were collected from investor reports.  Analysts led by Steven Saywell, head of foreign-exchange
strategy for Europe at BNP Paribas SA in London:  “We expect the stronger-than-consensus LTRO to be positive
for risk appetite, a positive tone on euro-zone peripheral bond
markets and consequently the banking sector.”  Elsa Lignos, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in
London:  “The LTRO doesn’t solve any long-term problems but then no
one expected it to. Our rates strategists argue this should keep
periphery spreads in check and we see no reason to turn euro-
negative on this and could see it testing $1.35 in the week
ahead.”  Luca Cazzulani, a senior fixed-income strategist at  UniCredit
SpA (UCG)  in Milan:  “The result is positive for risk trades. The number of
bidders was 800, well above the 523 that participated in the
December operation, most likely due to a higher participation
from small- and medium-sized banks. Refinancing risk for banks
has further diminished and this should be positive for market
mood.”  Strategists led by Luca Jellinek, head of European fixed-income
strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in
London:  “There are two key takeaways for core rates direction from
today’s LTRO. Firstly, the net addition of funding from the ECB
serves to generate net safe-haven demand as much of this cash is
simply parked, most obviously in bills and short-term core
bonds.  ‘‘Secondly, and conversely, the LTRO has and is likely to
continue to influence core markets inversely via the risk trade,
given the LTRO’s influence on periphery spreads. Today’s boost
to risk appetite should serve to boost the periphery and the
performance-chasing mentality of the market will likely then
lead to further switching out of core markets. We expect the
switching out of core markets to be a trend over the next one-
to-three months, but we see the increase in liquidity
outweighing the switching in the immediate future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 