-- Medco Deal Approval Should Have Conditions, Rivals’ Lawyer Says
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-02-29T15:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/medco-deal-approval-should-have-conditions-rivals-lawyer-says.html
Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) ’s bid for  Medco
Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  should be approved by U.S. antitrust
regulators only if the combined company allows customers to buy
specialty drugs at pharmacies that compete with their own, a
lawyer for independent rivals said.  Express and Medco, pharmacy benefits managers that own
their own stores, shouldn’t be allowed to charge more when their
customers buy specialized treatments elsewhere, said  David Balto , general counsel for the Independent Specialty Pharmacy
Coalition, in a letter today to the Federal Trade Commission.  This is the first time the independent pharmacies, which
would prefer the FTC to try to block the $29.1 billion deal in
court, have suggested conditions for approval. The FTC is set to
complete its investigation next month into whether the planned
acquisition of  Franklin Lakes , New Jersey-based Medco by  Express
Scripts  would hurt competition.  Patients “will suffer from inferior service and higher
prices,” Balto wrote in a letter to FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz.
The proposed conditions “would protect patient choice and
prevent patient coercion, prohibiting exclusive specialty
networks.”  Cecelia Prewett, an FTC spokeswoman, declined to comment.  A combined Express Scripts-Medco would be the biggest U.S.
manager of prescription benefits and control more than half of
the specialty pharmacy market, Balto said. Specialty pharmacies
sell treatments for ailments such as cancer and HIV that often
are injected or infused and usually require cooling or other
special handling.  Brian Henry , a spokesman for St. Louis-based Express
Scripts, declined to comment specifically on the letter.  “The FTC is taking a thorough look at the information”
provided by the company, he said. “We continue to work with the
FTC.”  The company believes the deal will receive the agency’s
approval in the first half of this year, Henry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  