-- Megaupload’s Dotcom Remains Out of Jail on Bail in New Zealand
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-02-29T04:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/megaupload-s-dotcom-remains-out-of-jail-on-bail-in-new-zealand.html
Megaupload.com founder Kim Dotcom,
indicted by the U.S. for orchestrating the country’s biggest
copyright infringement conspiracy, can remain out of jail on
bail pending an extradition hearing, a  New Zealand  judge ruled.  High Court Justice Timothy Brewer today rejected an appeal
by New Zealand prosecutors, the National Business Review
 reported  from the Auckland court. Brewer was acting at the
request of the U.S. to keep Dotcom in prison until the
extradition hearing, currently scheduled for Aug. 20.  Dotcom, 38, was indicted in what U.S. prosecutors dubbed a
“Mega Conspiracy,” accusing his file-sharing website of
generating more than $175 million in criminal proceeds from the
exchange of pirated film, music, book and software files. He
faces as long as 20 years in prison for each of the racketeering
and money laundering charges in the indictment.  In a revised indictment filed in a U.S. court in 
Alexandria Virginia, on Feb. 17, Dotcom was also charged with 
three new criminal copyright counts and five new wire-fraud
counts.  The conspiracy deprived copyright owners of more than $500
million, the U.S. government said.  Dotcom, who legally changed his family name from Schmitz,
has denied any criminal misconduct.  Megaupload advertised that it had more than 1 billion
visits to the site, more than 150 million registered users and
50 million daily visitors, and accounted for 4 percent of
 Internet traffic , prosecutors said. The  site  was shut down by
the U.S. Justice Department and now shows an FBI anti-piracy
warning, saying the domain name has been seized pursuant to an
order issued by a U.S. District Court.  The case is Kim Dotcom v.  United States of America . DCNSD
[25 January 2012]. District Court at North Shore ( Albany ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net . 