-- Kinder Morgan’s El Paso Buyout Allowed to Proceed to Vote
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-03-01T21:39:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/el-paso-investors-lose-bid-to-stop-kinder-morgan-s-21-1-billion-takeover.html
Kinder Morgan (KMI)  Inc. may proceed to a
shareholder vote on a $21.1 billion takeover of  El Paso (EP)  Corp.
after a judge rejected claims that  Goldman Sachs Group (GS)  Inc.’s
conflict of interest warranted blocking the deal.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine rejected calls by
some El Paso shareholders to block pipeline operator Kinder
Morgan’s $25.91-a-share offer. El Paso didn’t negotiate a high
enough price and Goldman Sachs, which owns 19 percent of Kinder
Morgan, wrongfully served as adviser to El Paso on the deal and
improperly influenced negotiations, they argued in court papers.  “I reluctantly deny the plaintiffs’ motion for a
preliminary injunction, concluding that the El Paso stockholders
should not be deprived of the chance to decide for themselves
about the merger, despite the disturbing nature of some of the
behavior leading to its terms,” Strine ruled yesterday.  The role of New York-based Goldman Sachs on both sides of
the deal was the focal point of the Wilmington case. Pension
funds from  Louisiana ,  Florida  and  New York  that invested in El
Paso argued Goldman Sachs, the fifth-largest U.S. bank by
assets, has long-standing ties to  Kinder Morgan  and helped
 Richard Kinder , the firm’s chief executive officer, take the
pipeline operator private in 2006.  ‘Gratified’  El Paso shareholders are scheduled to vote on the offer
March 6. El Paso rose 30 cents to $28.10 in New York Stock
Exchange trading. Kinder Morgan rose 68 cents to $35.92. Both
companies are based in Houston.  “We’re gratified that the judge denied the injunction and
that we can proceed with the vote of the shareholders,”  Larry Pierce , a spokesman for Kinder Morgan, said in an e-mail
yesterday.  El Paso officials are looking “forward to the close of the
transaction with Kinder Morgan,” company spokesman Richard Wheatley said in a phone interview.  “We are pleased that shareholders will get to vote on the
merger,”  David Wells , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, said in an e-mail. “We respect the judge’s opinion but
want to be clear that we stood by our client through this
process, encouraging them to get independent views from another
adviser. We were also transparent with El Paso about our
relationship with Kinder Morgan and the related issues.”  Goldman Sachs has designees in two of Kinder Morgan’s board
seats because of its ownership stake in the pipeline operator,
the funds argued. Last year, the bank reaped millions of dollars
by leading Kinder Morgan’s initial public offering, they said.  Approached Rival  Goldman Sachs has also advised El Paso over the years, the
investors said in court papers. When Kinder approached its rival
about a takeover last year, El Paso called in Goldman Sachs to
help. It was already advising the company on potential spinoffs.  The pension funds contended in their suit that Goldman
Sachs had a financial incentive to advise El Paso’s managers to
accept a lower price than they might have negotiated. Kinder’s
cash-and-stock bid amounts to a 37 percent premium to El Paso
shareholders, according to the company.  “Goldman’s staggering conflict of interest was obvious
from the outset: With a stake in KMI worth over $4 billion,
every dollar shaved off the buyout price represented $150
million of savings for Goldman,” the funds argued.  The shareholders also said Douglas Foshee, El Paso’s CEO,
has conflicting interests in the Kinder Morgan deal. They said
Foshee approached Kinder about pursuing a management-led bid for
El Paso’s energy-exploration unit while negotiating the
potential purchase of the whole company.  Conflicts  Foshee never informed El Paso’s board or shareholders that
he and a group of executives were considering buying the unit,
the investors argued in court papers.  El Paso and Goldman Sachs denied that the takeover was
flawed by conflicts of interest or that the buyout shortchanged
shareholders.  Goldman Sachs said that the bank and El Paso took
“reasonable measures” to address potential conflicts and
Goldman Sachs’ advisers didn’t compromise El Paso directors’
consideration of the takeover proposal.  Goldman Sachs executives serving as Kinder Morgan directors
recused themselves from discussions of the deal and fully
disclosed their ownership stake to El Paso officials, Goldman
Sachs said.  El Paso also hired New York-based investment bank Morgan
Stanley to serve as an additional adviser on the deal to double-
check Goldman Sachs’s work, Goldman Sachs and El Paso said.  “Every piece of Goldman Sachs’s advice is painted in the
most dastardly terms, allegedly motivated by rapacious and crude
objectives,” Goldman Sachs said in court filings.  In the ruling, Strine acknowledged that Goldman officials
attempted to address concerns about its conflict interests in
the El Paso buyout.  “Although it is true that measures were taken to cabin
Goldman’s conflict,” Strine found the investment bank’s efforts
“were not effective.”  Strine also noted that Steve Daniel, the Goldman Sachs’s
lead investment banker on the deal, failed to disclose that he
personally owned “ approximately $340,000 in Kinder Morgan
stock, a troubling failure that tends to undercut the
credibility of his testimony and of the strategic advice he
gave.”  The judge also pointed to El Paso lawyers’ denials that
Foshee made a serious attempt to buy the energy exploration
unit. Strine noted that the attorneys characterized Foshee’s
conversation with Kinder about acquiring the unit as
“frivolous.”  “Perhaps his interest in an MBO was really more of a
passing fancy, a casual thought that he could have mentioned to
Kinder over canapés and forgotten about the next day,” Strine
wrote. “It could be.”  ‘Smart Man’  “Or it could be that Foshee is a very smart man, and very
financially savvy,” the judge added. “He did not tell anyone
but his management confreres that he was contemplating an MBO
because he knew that would have posed all kinds of questions
about the negotiations with Kinder Morgan and how they were to
be conducted,” the judge said.  Foshee’s and Daniel’s failures to disclose their conflicts
raised questions about the deal, Strine noted. “This kind of
furtive behavior engenders legitimate concern and distrust,”
the judge wrote.  Still, El Paso shareholders should have the right to decide
whether they want to go forward with the offer, Strine said.  “Given that the El Paso stockholders are well positioned
to turn down the Kinder Morgan price if they do not like it, I
am not persuaded that I should deprive them of the chance to
make that decision for themselves,” the judge concluded.  Disgruntled El Paso shareholders can proceed with damage
claims in the case even if a majority of investors back the
deal, Strine said.  The case is In re El Paso Corp. Shareholder Litigation,
Consolidated 6949-CS, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at
   pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  