-- Telefonica Said to Offer Handset Purchase Options to Keep Users
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-02-29T19:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/telefonica-said-to-offer-handset-purchase-options-to-keep-users.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  plans to offer
additional financing options to mobile-phones customers in Spain
to prevent them from switching to cheaper rivals, according to
an internal note obtained by Bloomberg News.  Starting tomorrow, Spain’s biggest phone company will offer
existing subscribers options to purchase handsets via interest-
free installments, according to the memo. Customers may also
trade in used phones and receive a discount of as much as 245
euros ($327) on a new device, according to the note. Madrid-
based Telefonica declined to comment.  As rising unemployment and a slowing economy in Spain spur
customers to cancel phone subscriptions or switch to cheaper
offers, Telefonica last week predicted  profitability  to decline
further this year. The mobile-phone industry is set to suffer
from the price war as operators poach each other’s clients,
Santiago Fernandez Valbuena, chief executive officer of
Telefonica’s operations in  Latin America , said at the World
Mobile Congress in Barcelona this week.  “It just doesn’t make much sense to continue to nurture
this huge rotation and churn rates,” he said.  Telefonica plans to refurbish some of the used phones it
collects and resell them in Spain, Latin America, Asia and
Africa, according to the internal memo. In Spain, Telefonica’s
rivals include local units of  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,  France Telecom
SA (FTE)  and  TeliaSonera AB. (TLSN)   Spain, with a 23 percent unemployment rate, will relapse
into a recession this year and additional austerity measures may
worsen the slump, the European Commission said this month.  To raise cash and stem investors’ concern about its
increasing  debt , Telefonica is also selling non-core assets,
slashing is Spanish workforce and halting major mergers and
acquisitions. Telefonica on Dec. 15 reduced its 2012 dividend
forecast by 14 percent, abandoning a policy set up two years
earlier, and said market conditions had changed
“significantly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Barcelona at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  