-- Telefonica Reaches E-Book Deal With Planeta in Challenge to Amazon Kindle
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-03-01T08:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/telefonica-reaches-e-book-deal-with-planeta-in-kindle-challenge.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  teamed up with  Grupo
Planeta SA ,  Spain ’s largest publisher, to expand its electronic
book offers to rival  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle device in the
booming e-reader market.  Spain’s biggest phone company started selling the
“Movistar Ebook bq” reading device last June designed together
with  Mundo Reader . Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is
bolstering Telefonica’s digital efforts through partnerships and
products including mobile payment systems. Internet products are
key to buoying profits next year, he said in an interview this
week at the  Mobile World Congress  in Barcelona.  The market for electronic reading devices may grow from 11
million units sold in 2010 to 72 million in 2014, according to
Mundo Reader. Movistar e-reader has a 6-inch (15 centimeter)
display and  sells  for 169 euros ($227), or about 14 percent more
than Amazon’s Kindle Fire tablet.  “Telefonica will provide the technology and distribution,
while Planeta will offer the content,” Carlos Domingo, director
of Madrid-based Telefonica’s product development, said in an
interview in Barcelona this week.  Telefonica Digital  The offering based on  Grupo Planeta ’s content will
initially be offered in Spain and later in  Latin America ,
Domingo said. No date has been set for the release.  Amazon.com, the world’s largest Internet retailer, said
Dec. 15 its Kindle Fire tablet, which sells for $199, was the
best-selling product on its Website since its introduction 11
weeks before that. The Kindle Fire, which has a 7-inch display
and runs on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system, costs less
than half the price of  Apple Inc. (APPL) ’s least-expensive iPad tablet
computer.  Under the current agreement, Mundo Reader supplies
electronic reading devices to subscribers of Telefonica’s
Movistar mobile service.  Telefonica Digital, created in September and with offices
in London,  Silicon Valley (754895Q) ,  Tel Aviv ,  Sao Paulo  and Madrid,
represents Telefonica’s efforts to pull together digital assets
over three continents to take on  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)   “We are preparing different projects using Spain as the
platform to launch them,” Luis Miguel Gilperez, head of
Telefonica Spain, said in an interview.  Apple Store  Family-owned Grupo Planeta is the biggest publisher in
Spain and one of the seven largest in the word, according to the
company’s  website . It has more than 100 publishing imprints,
encompassing all literary genres and a catalog of more than
15,000 Spanish and foreign, classical and contemporary authors.  Patrici Tixis, a spokesman for Grupo Planeta, declined to
comment on the project.  Telefonica fell as much as 9 cents, or 0.7 percent, to
12.72 euros and traded at 12.74 euros as of 9:45 a.m. on the
 Madrid  exchange.  Even as almost half of young Spaniards are unemployed, some
technology products are thriving in the southern European
country battered by the European sovereign debt crisis.
Cupertino, California-based Apple is preparing to open a new
flagship store in Madrid’s City center as sales of iPhones and
iPads devices are surging in Spain.  While Telefonica’s e-book offering may help the operator to
retain customers and boost average revenue per subscriber, the
company needs to invest heavily into the service to challenge
the incumbents in the electronic reading market, said Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-based strategist at FGA/MG Valores.  “Big players such as Apple, Samsung or Amazon are already
well ahead, and customers usually prefer those cool brands,”
Salvador said. “Telefonica will need a big investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Barcelona  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  