-- Telenor Pakistan Plans Bank Focus as Competition Expands
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-02-29T19:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/telenor-pakistan-plans-bank-focus-as-competition-expands.html
Telenor ASA (TEL) , the Nordic region’s
biggest phone company, is increasing its Pakistani unit’s
reliance on mobile banking to make up for growing competition in
cellular services in the country.  Telenor  Pakistan  Ltd. plans to expand  Tameer Microfinance
Bank , which it bought in 2008, to gain customers among the rural
population in Pakistan, where less than 10 percent of the adult
population has access to financial services, division Chief
Executive Officer Lars Christian Iuel said in an interview.  “We are not going to be a pure telecom company in the
future,” Iuel said at Telenor Pakistan’s headquarters in
Islamabad. “If you consider yourself just a pure telecom, you
will be out of business in the next five years.”  Telenor has  invested  about $2 billion in Pakistan since
2005 to become the second-largest operator with 28.5 million
active customers, Iuel said. The division’s offer of banking
services via mobile devices is helping it respond to competition
from four other phone operators in a market where revenue per
customer amounts to $2.70 a month, among the lowest rates in the
world, he said.  The mobile-banking unit handled 3.5 million transactions in
January through 16,000 outlets, which offer microloans, money
transfers and bill payments, mostly in rural areas where about
80 percent of the country’s 177 million people live, the CEO
said. Financial services generate about 2 percent of Telenor
Pakistan’s revenue, a figure that will probably jump “many-
fold” in the next two to three years, he said.  ‘Just the Beginning’  “This is just the beginning,” Iuel said in the interview
yesterday. “This will be a major and integral part of our
business and our profits.”  Telenor Pakistan is also seeking to expand its mobile-phone
operations by taking part in the auction of 3G-technology
bandwidth on March 29, when the government will sell one 2G and
three 3G licenses to new and existing operators.  Competitors in the auction will include Ufone, a cellular
unit controlled by  Pakistan Telecommunications Co. (PTC) ;  Pakistan
Mobile Communications Ltd. (ORTE) , which uses the Mobilink brand; Warid
Telecom Ltd.; and  China Mobile Communications Ltd. (CHMOBZ)   “We will definitely participate,” Iuel said. “But we
won’t buy at any price. We have our limits. We will seek other
opportunities if we don’t win through the auction.”  The Pakistani division of Fornebu, Norway-based Telenor
accounted for 5.1 percent of group revenue in 2011, compared
with 4.9 percent the year before, and 4.4 percent of its
operating profit, after earning a little more than a break-even
figure in 2010, according to the company’s fourth-quarter
financial  report .  Earnings in Pakistan are being squeezed because of higher
costs to provide security and deal with the nation’s power
blackouts, Iuel said.  Economic growth  was 2.4 percent in the 12
months through June compared with 9 percent six years earlier.  “The economic slowdown hasn’t affected our revenue growth,
which is still in double digits,” Iuel said. “But about 15
percent of our operational spending goes to provide power backup
when we have 16 to 18 hours of blackouts. We have 12,000 guards
to secure our infrastructure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  