-- Emerging-Market Stocks Extend Monthly Gain on ECB Loans, U.S. GDP Growth
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-02-29T23:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/emerging-market-stocks-climb-to-7-month-high-as-ecb-loans-beat-forecast.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced,
capping a monthly gain, after the  European Central Bank  provided
lenders with more money than economists had forecast and the
U.S. economy grew faster than expected.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  gained 1 percent to
1,079.44 at the close in New York. The gauge’s two-month advance
is the first since April.  Technology companies  led advances as
 Asustek Computer Inc. (2357)  in  Taiwan  forecast higher laptop
shipments.  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  surged 6.1 percent in  Prague ,
boosting the benchmark PX Index to the biggest gain in more than
a week, after reporting fourth-quarter net income that beat
analysts’ estimates.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said today it will lend 800
financial institutions 529.5 billion euros ($705.7 billion) for
three years. Economists had predicted an allotment of 470
billion euros, according to the median of 28 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. The  U.S. economy  expanded at a revised 3
percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, the most since the
second quarter of 2010, Commerce Department figures today
showed.  “We’re starting to cautiously move into a more optimistic
scenario and into a more constructive and normalized backdrop
and that obviously provides financial markets with the
opportunity to rally,” Simon Quijano-Evans, an  emerging-markets 
economist at ING Groep NV, said by phone from  London . “It’s
essentially leaving 2009 back there as a once-in-a-century event
and no longer comparing 2012 to it.”  Developed-nation stocks  fell 0.3 percent, reversing earlier
gains of as much as 0.6 percent, after U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s remarks to Congress damped
speculation of more quantitative easing. Emerging-market
equities pared an advance of as much as 1.5 percent. Developed-
market shares gained 4.7 percent in February,  underperforming 
emerging markets for a second month.  Brazil, Russia  Brazil ’s  Bovespa stock index  reversed earlier gains and
fell 0.2 percent.  Gafisa SA (GFSA3) , Brazil’s third-largest homebuilder
by revenue, fell 7 percent, the most on the Bovespa, after
rejecting a proposal from GP Investimentos and Equity
International to acquire some assets.  OAO Lukoil (LKOH) ,  Russia ’s second-largest oil producer, jumped
2.3 percent in Moscow as Brent oil gained, helping the  Micex
Index (MICEX)  snap a two-day decline.  Erste Group Bank AG (RBAG)  led the  PX
Index (PX)  to a 1.9 percent advance.  Asustek Computer jumped 7 percent in Taipei after saying
notebook shipments will increase 22 percent this year, helping a
gauge tracking technology companies on MSCI’s developing-nation
index to a 2.3 percent advance. Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  gained 2
percent, the most in three weeks.  China, South Korea  China ’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 1 percent, its first
drop in nine days, on concern the government will retain
measures to curb gains in housing prices this year.  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  jumped after a government report
showed production climbed 3.3 percent in January, surprising
economists who forecast a decline.  Brazil’s real plunged 1.3 percent, the most among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, after a
government official said the country is considering currency
measures to stem gains that made the real the best-performing
major currency this year before today. The official, who asked
not to be identified because a final decision hasn’t been taken,
declined to give details on the measure.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 356, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net 
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  