-- Empty Politics Pose Biggest Threat to U.S. Power: Clive Crook
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-02-29T01:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/empty-politics-pose-biggest-threat-to-u-s-power-clive-crook.html
Theorists of American  decline  are
preoccupied with the surging growth of emerging rivals,
especially  China . That’s an important issue, I don’t doubt. But
there’s a much bigger threat to U.S. power: the increasingly
abject failure of the country’s own political class.  Washington sees it as obvious and unremarkable that public
policy has been in hibernation for the past few months and isn’t
expected to wake up until January 2013. Of course the country
needs  tax reform . Yes, a budget would be good, maybe some
longer-term  spending  plans that anybody could take seriously,
too. But this is an election year. What do you expect? How long
have you lived in the U.S., anyway?  One thing a foreigner like myself might naively expect is
serious discussion of relevant policy options. That isn’t
happening either. The contest for the Republican presidential
nomination, which has the U.S. political class transfixed, is
barely even pretending to be serious. In this election, the
country has to make a “foundational”  choice , says  Rick Santorum . Does the U.S. want to follow the European welfare-
state model, asks  Mitt Romney , or stay  true  to its principles?
Gosh, so much is at stake.  Fundamentalist Fantasies  This bogus fundamentalism is an excuse to avoid discussing
real decisions that will have to be made. The economic plans of
the main Republican rivals are entirely unserious -- too vague
to appraise and impossible to implement if they meant what their
proponents claim them to mean.  Public borrowing  is out of
control, say the Republicans. Therefore, slash taxes, maintain
middle-class entitlements and invest more in national security.
You can call that a foundational fiscal choice or a self-
indulgent fantasy. It comes to much the same thing.  At the moment, the Democrats are letting their Republican
rivals tear themselves apart. From the liberal point of view,
what could be better? The best Republican candidates have taken
themselves out of the running. The party has fielded a roster of
second-rate candidates (I’m trying to be generous) and in a
frenzy of mutually assured destruction is thinning this list
down to the one it dislikes least. Thus, a country limping away
from a shattering  recession  is treated to debates about the
ethics of contraception -- contraception, if you can believe
that -- and a competition to see which candidate is the most
“severely conservative.”  The Democrats’ recovery in the polls is therefore, to my
mind, quite a mystery. Why has it been so modest? The
Republicans are following a script that no Democratic strategist
covertly inserted into the Republicans’ campaigns could improve
on, and President Barack Obama’s support is still only around 50
percent. Still, the Democrats are gaining ground, and an
election that Republicans should have expected to win is sliding
away from them. So far Democrats have had the sense to see that
this will do just fine for now.  It tells you something, though, that the smart strategy is
to remain silent while your political rivals self-destruct --not,
I would submit, the sign of a healthy polity. When Democrats do
get around to debating the anointed Republican loser, I dare say
they will be unable to resist talking about foundational choices,
too. Remember the party’s delight when Obama gave his  speech 
last year in  Kansas  -- an address that reminded the country what
the Democrats really stand for, how much this coming election
really matters and what a pivotal decision the electorate is
about to make.  Checks and Balances  What I want to know is how long the people who believe that
have lived in the U.S. How often does an American election
settle anything?  The  Constitution ’s checks and balances are expressly
designed to prevent foundational lurches -- and its record of
doing just that is pretty impressive. The Republicans look as
though they intend to throw away the presidential election, but
Democratic control of both chambers of Congress next year seems
unlikely. This supposedly pivotal election may very well change
nothing. (You remember how transformative 2008, which actually
did give Democrats unified control, proved to be.)  I admire the Constitution for the way it protects the U.S.
from the reckless machinations of the country’s political class
-- but one has to admit the downside. By guarding against the
dire results of rule by either tribe of would-be fundamentalists,
this system accommodates and thereby encourages that very
fundamentalism.  Washington  is a zone of advocacy without
consequences. In the end, the posturing is for nothing: That’s
why it persists. Meanwhile, policy emerges unpredictably and
almost inadvertently, through a process of deal-making that has
nothing to do with what politicians tell voters in their
speeches, hence with no real accountability or consent.  Two other things follow. One is protracted delay as the
political pantomime plays out. The other is that it’s impossible
to make a credible commitment to long-term answers. If the next
transformative election is never more than two years away,
nothing is expected to stick.  America’s fiscal challenges, for instance, are serious yet
surmountable. Just read the  report  of the fiscal commission led
by  Alan Simpson  and  Erskine Bowles . Critical elements of what
needs to be done are by now obvious: base-broadening tax reform
and control of entitlements through a higher  retirement age . But
the U.S. political class would rather keep prating about
foundational choices than get on with those straightforward
fixes. While Washington quarrels endlessly over transformations
that will never happen, the fiscal problem worsens to the point
where it may turn around and kick the economy in the teeth.  I’d say China is the least of this country’s problems.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net  