-- Energy Policy Is Fundamental to U.S. Competitiveness
-- B y   J o h n   B .   H e s s
-- 2012-02-29T18:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/energy-policy-is-fundamental-to-u-s-competitiveness.html
     The United States desperately needs an  energy policy . It
is fundamental to our economic growth, environmental
sustainability and national security. With five percent of the
world's population and 20 percent of its energy use, the U.S.
has an obligation to lead globally. We need to set the right
example at home.  When President Obama took office three years ago, he put
climate change at the top of the agenda. However, to have
climate change policy you need an energy policy. People
confuse the two — you need both for sustainable development.  In this year's State of the Union address, President
Obama tempered his message, saying the country needs an "all
of the above" energy policy to provide supplies that are
cleaner and cheaper. That is nice political rhetoric — but a
gross oversimplification of the challenges ahead.  At the same time, the  energy industry  must do a much
better job informing the public and educating political
leaders about the pragmatic realities we face and the
difficult choices we must make. Sound energy policy can only
emerge if the government, energy industry and the public have
a shared understanding of the challenge. To achieve this, the
energy industry needs to regain the public trust. In a Gallup
poll last year of public opinion of 25 business sectors and
government, oil and gas ranked next to last. Only the federal
government had worse ratings.  These are the energy realities that we face:  1. Eighty-five percent of the world's energy comes from
hydrocarbons: 35 percent oil, 30 percent coal and 20 percent
natural gas.  2. It is estimated that the world population will grow
from seven billion today to nine billion by 2050, with much of
that growth in  developing countries . With a corresponding
increase in  living standards , hydrocarbon energy is essential
for economic development.  3. World demand for oil is expected to grow on an annual
basis by at least one million barrels per day, driven by the
developing economies of the world and growth in
transportation, which is forecast to increase from one billion
cars today to two billion in 2050.  4. We are not running out of oil. We have already
produced one trillion barrels and globally there are
approximately two trillion barrels remaining of conventional
oil. While we currently have world surplus oil production
capacity of two to three million barrels per day, as demand
grows in the next decade we will not have enough oil
production capacity to keep up. Without greater investment in
new capacity, tight supply will ration demand and prices will
skyrocket — which could bring the world economy to its knees.
The per barrel oil price of $140 four years ago was not an
aberration, but a warning.  5. While renewable energy is needed and development
should be encouraged to meet future energy demand and reduce
our carbon footprint, hydrocarbons will fuel the world's
economy for many decades to come. Renewables do not have the
scale, development timeframe or economics to materially change
this outcome as much as we would hope.  The energy industry has to stand up to provide strategic
vision. Here are some thoughts for a  United States  energy
policy.  Oil: U.S. energy policy for oil should aim at moderating
demand through efficiency and increasing supply by focusing on
drilling. In terms of demand, we need to raise the mileage
performance standard to 50 miles per gallon as quickly as
possible. This can be achieved first and foremost through
hybrid electric cars, as well as a combination of vehicle
mix, engine downsizing and advanced combustion technology.
Replacing the nation's fleet of 230 million cars and light
duty trucks with more fuel-efficient vehicles over 15 years
could save three million barrels of oil equivalent per day. At
today's price of $100 per barrel, this change would save over
$100 billion a year in energy costs — a worthy prize.  Electric battery powered cars are viewed by some as the
ultimate solution for moderating oil demand.
Unfortunately, there are significant obstacles to the
widespread implementation of electric cars. The challenge is
that range is generally limited to 40 miles on an eight-hour
charge and batteries cost more than $10,000 per car. The laws
of physics explain the range challenge. The energy density of
today's best battery is 200 watt-hours per kilogram versus the
energy density of gasoline — 13,000 watt-hours per kilogram.  To increase oil supply, we must maintain tax provisions
that incentivize drilling and strengthen  energy security . In
2010, the oil and gas industry spent approximately $135
billion in intangible drilling costs (IDCs), which are current
cash operating costs of drilling that tax law allows companies
to expense in the year incurred. President Obama recently said
in his State of the Union Address that we have subsidized  oil
companies  for a century and that is long enough. Taking this
position might be good politics — but it's not good policy. It
serves nobody's purpose for our political leadership to vilify
oil producers. These costs are neither tax breaks nor
subsidies for oil companies; they are an investment in
America's energy future. Eliminating expensing of IDCs would
decrease domestic supply, increase foreign imports, hurt our
balance of trade, decrease jobs and reduce energy security.  We also must do all we can to increase the world's oil
supply. With non-OPEC production nearing a plateau, the supply
burden in the future will increase on OPEC, specifically  Saudi
Arabia  and  Iraq . The global oil and gas industry is expected
to spend $600 billion this year on exploration and
production, or 10 percent more than a year ago. With the long
lead times in our business, the world is not investing enough
globally to ensure surplus capacity in the next five to ten
years.  Natural Gas : U.S. energy policy for natural gas should
focus on shale gas, which is a real game changer. Five years
ago, shale gas accounted for approximately five percent of
U.S. natural gas production; today it makes up almost 30
percent. Natural gas provides a significant competitive cost
advantage for the United States in terms of cost per
unit, which is several times lower than it is in other
countries. It also has environmental advantages, with half the
carbon footprint of coal, and helps our nation's energy
security as supplies are forecast to last for the next 100
years.  We should grow gas demand as a fuel in
heating, electricity, petrochemical manufacturing and
transportation. However, the biggest opportunity is
electricity generation, where natural gas has lower costs and
higher efficiency than in transportation. An electric plant is
50 percent efficient, whereas natural gas used in
transportation is 15 percent efficient.  We must use hydraulic fracturing to develop our abundant
natural gas resources. This has been a common practice since
1949 and over one million wells have been hydraulically
fractured in the U.S. Eighty percent of the 44,000 wells
drilled in our country each year require hydraulic
fracturing, using a closed system with water, sand and a small
percentage of additives to fracture rock and release
hydrocarbons. Most states do a very good job regulating this
activity. Adding duplicative federal regulation would be
counterproductive.  Coal: U.S. energy policy for coal should reduce its use
until research breakthroughs make clean coal technically
feasible and commercially viable. While almost 50 percent of
our electricity comes from coal,  Al Gore 's words ring true:
"Clean coal," he said, "is like healthy cigarettes." At
present, it does not exist. We have more than 600 coal plants
in the U.S., one third of which are over 50 years old; many
need significant investments to meet anticipated environmental
regulations. With the superior economics of natural gas, older
plant capacity should be replaced with gas-fired plants.  Nuclear: Even before the disaster in  Japan , nuclear power
had problems due to the high cost of new plants, the long lead
time needed to build them and the challenges of secure nuclear
waste disposal. While we need to maintain our technical
capability and portfolio options by building a few new plants
a year, the high cost of nuclear plants means they cannot
compete economically against natural gas and they will have a
limited role going forward.  Climate change : U.S. energy policy must also deal with
climate change in a way that sets targets that sustain
economic growth and protect the environment. Proposals to
reduce the world's carbon emissions by 80 percent by 2050 are
not achievable. A study done by  Princeton University 's Carbon
Mitigation Initiative sets forth strategies needed to mitigate
emissions globally such as setting 60 miles per gallon for
 fuel efficiency , doubling the number of nuclear
plants, capturing and storing carbon from 800 coal plants and
increasing wind power by 10 times today's capacity. Executing
eight of these herculean initiatives would hold CO2 emissions
flat by 2060. We should be realistic about targets we set and
make sure we do not put the economy into reverse.  The United States and Europe cannot meet the challenge of
climate change alone. The role of  China , which now accounts
for 10 percent of the world GDP, is critical. China recently
surpassed the U.S. in CO2 emissions and will probably triple
its CO2 emissions in the next 30 years. China's energy policy
is integral to its national security and foreign policy. In
the last three years, China spent over $45 billion to acquire
oil and gas reserves worldwide.  The United States needs to get serious about climate
change once our economy recovers and people get back to work.
Some say we should then consider energy taxes, such as a $1
per gallon gasoline tax for transportation and a $10 per ton
carbon tax for electric generation. While it would take
political courage, these taxes should be given full
examination. They should be introduced over a five-year period
and only when other major industrial powers in the G-20 take
similar measures.  Carbon price signals would ensure that we use hydrocarbon
energy more efficiently and make meaningful reductions in CO2
emissions. When fully implemented, such taxes would generate
over $200 billion per year. Ninety percent of the revenue
could be directed at reducing our nation's financial deficit —
provided it is coupled with spending cuts. The remaining ten
percent could be dedicated to research in alternative energy
technologies such as batteries, biofuels and carbon capture
and storage, as well as infrastructure projects such as smart
grids and the hydrogen economy. We need to develop these
technologies so that one day they can reach their promise and
competitively position the  U.S. economy  for the future.  Three C's: Energy and climate change have been called the
greatest challenge of the 21st Century. Energy industry
leaders should help offer a solution by following three
principles I call the "Three C's": Communication, Courage and
Collaboration.  First, we must communicate the pragmatic realities we
face and the fact that hydrocarbons are critical to our
future.  Second, we must have the courage to provide the strategic
vision for a secure energy future that underpins economic
growth and protects the environment.  Third, we must collaborate — Democrats and
Republicans, government and industry and the United States
with the rest of the world — in the spirit of compromise for
the common good. We need to put energy policy at the top of
the U.S. political agenda and that of the G-20 as well.
Together, we can create an energy policy to make our country
more competitive and secure economic prosperity for future
generations.  John B. Hess is the Chairman and CEO of the Hess
Corporation.  Visit www.bloomberg.com/sustainability for the latest
from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and global
business.
 