-- ENN Gains After Delaying China Gas Bid Notice: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 2012-02-29T09:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/enn-gains-after-delaying-china-gas-bid-notice-hong-kong-mover.html
ENN Energy Holdings Ltd. (2688) , the gas
supplier bidding for  China Gas Holdings Ltd. (384) , rose the most in
almost seven weeks on speculation its decision to delay a notice
to shareholders indicates it may not increase its offer.  The shares gained 3.9 percent to HK$26.65 at the close in
Hong Kong, the most since Jan. 13. The stock has gained 7
percent this year, compared with an 18 percent gain in the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)  China Gas was unchanged at HK$ 3.73.  China Gas, which distributes natural gas in 20 provinces of
the nation, rebuffed a HK$15.3 billion ($2 billion) hostile
takeover offer by ENN and China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. on
Dec. 14. South Korean investment group SK Holdings Co. and
Fortune Oil Plc increased their stakes in the company since
December, filings with the  Hong Kong  Securities and Futures
Commission showed.  “The acquisition will face difficulty in going forward, as
the consortium cannot raise the offer price too high or it will
be difficult to get approval from ENN’s shareholders,” Nomura
Equity Research analysts Joseph Lam and Ivan Lee wrote in a note
yesterday. “China Gas shareholders, on the other hand, will not
accept the offer if they cannot receive a decent return.”  ENN will send shareholders a notice about the acquisition
by March 31 because the company needs more time to prepare the
information and complete its financial results for the year
ended Dec. 31, according to statement to the stock exchange
yesterday.  ENN shares have risen 1 percent, while China Gas gained 11
percent since the offer was announced by ENN on Dec. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Guo Aibing in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 