-- EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Rules Are Illegal, Opponents Tell Court
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-29T18:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/epa-s-greenhouse-gas-rules-are-illegal-opponents-tell-appeals-court-panel.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency’s limits on industrial emissions of greenhouse gases
including carbon dioxide are illegal and must be thrown out,
opponents told federal judges in  Washington .  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals today
considered challenges to the agency’s rules determining which
polluters are covered and when states and industries must comply
with regulations curtailing the use of greenhouse gases.  “The agency crossed the line from statutory interpretation
to statutory revision,” Peter Keisler, a lawyer for the
National Association of Manufacturers, told the judges. He said
the EPA violated the law when the agency raised emissions
thresholds far above what Congress called for.  Companies such as  Massey Energy Co. (MEE) , business groups
including the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  and states led by Texas
and Virginia are seeking to stop the agency through more than 60
lawsuits. Some argue that the agency relied on biased data from
outside scientists, including some affiliated with the so-called
climategate scandal.  The arguments were split into three parts. The panel heard
arguments yesterday on the agency’s finding that  greenhouse
gases  are pollutants that endanger human health. They also heard
arguments against a 2010 rule on motor vehicle emissions that
opponents said improperly sets greenhouse-gas standards for
stationary sources, such as  steel mills  and  power plants .  ‘Tailoring Rule’  Today, the court considered challenges to the EPA’s
“tailoring rule,” which limits the businesses covered by
carbon regulation and phases in controls.  The agency aims to phase in industrial polluters covered by
the carbon rules through 2016. The EPA argued in court filings
that the tailoring rule is acceptable under the Clean Air Act
and necessary to avoid states being overrun with permit
requests.  In 2007, the  Supreme Court  ruled that the EPA had authority
to regulate greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide and methane
under the  Clean Air Act  if the agency declared them a public
danger. The EPA issued a so-called endangerment finding in
December 2009, clearing the way for regulation of emissions from
power plants, factories and other sources linked to global
 climate change .  The regulations require only the biggest emitters, such as
power plants and oil refiners, obtain state carbon permits
before building or upgrading facilities. State officials will
determine pollution controls case by case.  ‘Uphill Battle’  “A lot of the focus has been on endangerment, but that is
going to be an uphill battle” for industry, said Jeffrey Holmstead, a lawyer at  Bracewell & Giuliani LLP (1222L)  in Washington
who isn’t involved in the case. “The biggest vulnerability for
EPA is on the tailoring rule.”  If the EPA loses on that it would create such chaos that
“it forces Congress to act,” said Holmstead, who was an EPA
official during the George W. Bush administration.  The case is Coalition for Responsible Regulation Inc. v.
Environmental Protection Agency, 09-1322,  U.S. Court of Appeals ,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  