-- Erdogan Faces Worse Deal in Sukuk Than Dollar Debt Market: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-03-01T16:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/erdogan-faces-worse-deal-in-sukuk-than-dollar-debt-market-turkey-credit.html
Turkey , planning its first sale of
bonds that comply with Islamic law, may have to pay about a
percentage point more in interest than on bonds sold in dollars
that don’t have religious restrictions.  Turkey, the second-biggest Muslim economy after Indonesia,
will probably have to pay a minimum of 5.5 percent annually on
five-year debt to be attractive, according to Samer Mardini,
vice president of fixed-income and Islamic finance products at
SJS Markets Ltd. in Dubai. That’s 120 basis points higher than
similar maturity dollar debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s government, which won
power in 2002, has sought more religious freedoms in secular
Turkey, including adopting rules that will permit Islamic
finance. The U.K. canceled what would have been the first sale
of Islamic debt by a Western government in February 2011, saying
it didn’t offer value for money, while Luxembourg said in May it
put an issue on hold as it saw no need for additional funding.  “Issuers generally pay a sukuk premium and a number of
sovereigns have ruled it out recently because of that, the U.K.
for example,” Thomas Christie, a fixed-income sales trader at
Rasmala Investment Bank Ltd. in Dubai, said by e-mail yesterday.
“Something with a 6 percent yield generally will have investors
interested, perhaps a little tighter.”  Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan said on Jan. 31 that the
government will sell its first sukuk this year, just as the
market is becoming less competitive because of record investor
inflows into emerging market dollar bonds.  Record Inflows  The yield premium demanded on  Indonesia ’s 2018 Islamic
bonds over similar maturity dollar-denominated debt increased to
71 basis points today from four basis points on Dec. 28, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed. The yield on the country’s dollar
debt is 2.93 percent, compared with 4.31 percent on Turkey’s
July 2017 dollar bonds. Indonesia is rated Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service, the lowest investment grade status and two
levels above Turkey’s Ba2 rating.  Emerging-market bond funds had net inflows of $7.83 billion
this year through Feb. 22, according to Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global. That’s the best start of the
year in dollar terms since 2004 when EPFR began following the
data,  Cameron Brandt , director of research at EPFR, said in an
e-mail.  Turkey is looking to the sukuk market after selling a total
of $2.5 billion in 10-year dollar-denominated bonds in January
and February. The Treasury will sell another $1 billion of yen
bonds as part of a foreign borrowing program to raise 9.5
billion liras ($5.4 billion), a person with direct knowledge who
declined to be identified because the plans are private said on
Feb. 27.  Tapping New Market  “Resorting to a different source may benefit Turkey
because tapping the same resources more and more may increase
the cost of borrowing,” Afa Boran, a  fund manager  at Amwal in
Doha, Qatar, said in e-mailed comments on Feb. 27.  Global sales of sukuk, which pay asset returns to comply
with Islam’s ban on interest, climbed to $7.2 billion in 2012,
more than double the $3.4 billion sold in the same period last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The government will issue Islamic bonds once parliament
passes legislation setting the legal framework for the sales,
Babacan said in January.  Erdogan’s  Justice and Development Party , with roots in an
Islamic movement banned by the  Constitutional Court  in 1997, won
a third term in office in June last year with 49 percent of the
vote, the biggest proportion in four decades. The victory
cemented Erdogan’s political power over the military, which had
objected to the weakening of Turkey’s secular rules that kept
religion out of public life.  Egypt, South Africa  Turkey is following  Egypt ,  South Africa  and  Nigeria  into
the Islamic  bond market . South Africa will offer $500 million of
the bonds, the National Treasury said on Feb. 22. Egypt will
raise at least $2 billion from the sale of Islamic bonds and
certificate of deposits to nationals living abroad, Finance
Minister Momtaz el-Saieed said Feb. 6. Nigeria may sell as much
as $1 billion of Islamic bonds out of  Malaysia  in 2012, central
bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said on Nov. 15.  A Turkish sukuk will “tick two boxes being a European and
sovereign sukuk, it will automatically serve to attract
investors looking for quality paper as well as geographical
diversification for their investments,” Hakim Azaiez, the head
of  Middle East  and North African  capital markets  at Dinosaur
Capital Management in  London , said in an e-mailed response to
questions on Feb. 15.  The government passed a law in February last year reducing
the withholding tax on sukuk to 10 percent and exempting the
sales from value-added, stamp and corporate taxes, putting them
on par with non-Islamic bonds.  Sales on Hold  Shariah-compliant banks Asya Katilim Bankasi AS and
Albaraka Turk Katilim Bankasi AS, a unit of Bahrain’s Albaraka
Group, shelved issues last year citing the impact of the debt
crisis in  Europe .  Albaraka may offer $200 million of Islamic bonds by June
with an annual return of about 6 percent “if market conditions
improve and price pressure eases,” Chief Executive Officer
Fahrettin Yahsi said in an interview during a banking conference
in Istanbul yesterday.  Turkey’s $735 billion economy expanded at a pace of 9.6
percent in the first three quarters of last year, second only to
 China . The government forecasts that Europe’s eighth-biggest
economy will grow at least 4 percent this year.  The cost to the Turkish government of selling sukuk may not
be much greater than the dollar-denominated euro bonds it issued
so far this year, said Bulent Topbas, fund manager at Istanbul-
based broker and investment firm Strateji Menkul Degerler AS.  Eurobond Alternative  “I look positively upon an instrument that is an
alternative to euro-bond investments,” Topbas said. “I don’t
think yields on sukuk would be very different.”  The average yield for Shariah-compliant  debt  has fallen 20
basis points this year to 3.79 percent on Feb. 24, according to
the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index. Meanwhile  yields  on
non-Islamic dollar bonds of emerging-market countries fell 52
basis points to 5.55 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  While Turkey may pay more to sell sukuk, costs are less on
average because the borrowers are usually banks and governments
that are rated higher than emerging-market countries, Aliasgar Tambawala, a Dubai-based investment manager at Mashreq Capital
DIFC Ltd., said in e-mailed comments yesterday.  Default Risk  The cost of protecting Turkish bonds against default using
five-year credit-default swaps was 238, compared with a spread
of 166 for Indonesia, and 116 for Malaysia, which has the
biggest sukuk market, according to CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately-negotiated market.  Turkish contracts cost 22 basis points less than the
average for countries in central and eastern Europe, the Middle
East and  Africa  included in the Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index.
The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Turkey’s improved ties with the Arab world are encouraging
more investors to seek a foothold in the country. Trade with the
Middle East and North Africa has surged seven-fold during
Erdogan’s years in power, reaching $35 billion last year,
according to data published by the statistics agency in Ankara
on its  website .  Rising Exports  Turkey’s exports to the Middle Eastern countries rose 20
percent to $28 billion last year, one fifth of total exports,
according to the statistics office. Tourist arrivals from the
Gulf region rose 25 percent to 717,423 last year. Visitors from
 Kuwait  jumped by 53 percent and by 37 percent from  Saudi Arabia .  The Treasury’s sale would help banks and other companies
sell Islamic-compliant debt by creating a local market, said
Asya Katilim Chief Executive Officer Abdullah Celik.  “The sukuk will be useful in terms of pricing, because it
would form a benchmark,” Celik said in an interview in Istanbul
on Feb. 8. Bank Asya will issue $300 million of the bonds this
year should market conditions permit, he said.  The lira weakened for the first time in four days, dropping
0.5 percent to 1.7567 per dollar. The currency has gained 7.7
percent so far this year. Yields on two-year benchmark  bonds  in
liras rose 10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 9.23
today, in their first increase in three days. They fell 31 basis
points in February, after declining 157 basis points in January,
the biggest monthly drop since April 2009.  Turkey should offer a premium to investors over similar
debt issued in the Middle East, which trades at about 5.25
percent over three years, according to Mardini at SJS Markets.  “If it is a five-year issue, it has to be above 5.5
percent to be attractive, Mardini said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  