-- Erste Almost Fills EBA Capital Gap as Net Beats Estimates
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-02-29T17:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/erste-almost-fills-eba-capital-gap-as-net-beats-estimates.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , eastern
 Europe ’s second-biggest lender, said it’s closer to filling its
capital gap after it posted a 4 percent increase in fourth-
quarter net income, beating analysts’ estimates.  Erste’s  shares  rose as it narrowed the capital shortfall
found by the European Banking Authority to 166 million euros
($224 million) by the end of 2011 from 743 million euros three
months earlier, according to a  statement  from Vienna-based Erste
today. Retained earnings and 5.8 billion euros of asset
reductions brought its capital ratio to 8.9 percent under EBA
rules, close to the 9 percent it must reach by June 30.  “We see absolutely no problem to not only reach but exceed
the 9 percent goal,” Chief Executive Officer Andreas Treichl
told journalists in Vienna. “We’ll have additional earnings in
the first half of the year, and have another 3 billion euros of
non-core assets we can reduce.”  Treichl is filling a capital hole at Erste that widened in
October as writedowns in Hungary and  Romania  and on undisclosed
credit-default swaps led to a full-year loss in 2011. He vowed
to avoid diluting shareholders through taking further state aid
or selling new shares, and to meet  capital requirements  mostly
with retained earnings.  Net income  rose to 254.1 million euros in the three months
ended Dec. 31 from 244.9 million euros a year earlier, driven by
rising net interest income and falling provisions for bad loans,
Erste said. The average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a decline to 228 million euros.  ‘EBA Issue Over’  “The EBA issue is simply over,” said Daniele Brupbacher,
an analyst at UBS AG who cut Erste to “neutral” from “buy”
on Feb. 16. “This went more quickly than I thought, and they
also seemed to reduce risk-weighted assets by more.”  Erste jumped 78 cents, or 4.3 percent, to 18.835 euros at
the 5:30 p.m. close of Vienna trading. The stock has advanced 39
percent this year, outperforming the 43-member  Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index , which rose 17 percent.  Erste said it boosted its capital ratio by reducing risk-
weighted assets in business areas it doesn’t focus on. It
reduced short-term interbank lending, sold credit-default swaps
and “optimized” capital allocation. Lending to customers,
which the bank sees as its main revenue source, was little
changed in the last quarter. The biggest decline was in  Hungary ,
where customer loans shrank 8 percent.  Regulatory Uncertainty  Even as Erste expects to exceed the EBA’s capital target,
Treichl said there is still so much regulatory uncertainty that
he’d rather wait before paying back 1.2 billion euros of state
aid he received in 2009. Excluding that aid and similar non-
voting capital, Erste’s core Tier 1 capital rose 0.1 percentage
points to 7.8 percent by the end of the year.  Treichl also said he’ll wait until there is more regulatory
clarity on capital matters before giving a target for 2012
dividends. He and other board members won’t get a bonus for this
year.  The fourth-quarter profit narrowed Erste’s full-year loss
to 718.9 million euros, within the range of 700 million euros to
800 million euros the bank predicted on Oct. 10.  Erste said it expected core markets in central and eastern
Europe to grow next year, boosting earnings, with the exception
of Hungary and  Croatia , where a “mild negative performance” is
forecast. The bank owns the biggest lenders in Romania and the
 Czech Republic , and the second-largest in Hungary.  The bank “expects a slightly rising operating result in
2012, supported by selective loan growth in its core markets and
further cost reductions,” it said in the statement. It didn’t
give a forecast for net income, which will probably rise to 928
million euros this year, according to  12 analysts surveyed  by
Bloomberg.  Bad Debt  Net interest income, the difference between interest
charged on loans and paid on deposits and Erste’s main revenue
source, grew 7 percent in the fourth quarter compared with a
year earlier, driven by its domestic Austrian operation.  Bad debt charges, estimated by analysts to rise, fell 8
percent. Declining reserves in  Austria  and in the Czech and
Slovak republics offset rising charges in Romania and Hungary.
Delinquent loans increased to 8.5 percent of all lending in the
quarter, mostly due to Hungary and Romania.  “The results seem to be better on almost every line of the
earnings statement,” said  Dirk Becker , an analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets with a “buy” rating on Erste.  Erste expects those charges, the biggest drag on earnings
since 2009, to decline by at least 20 percent to less than 1.8
billion euros this year. The charges rose to 2.27 billion euros
in 2011, driven by an extra provision of 450 million euros in
Hungary.  ‘200 Years’  Banks in Hungary have suffered as Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government forced them to swallow losses on mortgages
denominated in euros and Swiss francs last year. Erste said its
clients repaid 730 million euros of loans under the law, which
has now expired, causing a total loss of 200 million euros that
is covered by provisions.  It recouped 41 million euros of that loss thanks to a deal
with the government under which banks can deduct part of the
loss from the country’s bank tax. Treichl said that while he had
no reason to assume that Hungary will turn profitable again
before 2014, Erste had no plans to quit the country.  “We want to be the savings bank between Germany and
 Russia ,” Treichl said. “Hungary is a very important country in
this region. We’ve been in this region for 200 years and won’t
leave a country just because of one government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  