-- Euro Weakens Versus Dollar After ECB Announces Three-Year Loans to Banks
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-02-29T14:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/euro-weakens-versus-dollar-after-ecb-announces-three-year-loans-to-banks.html
The euro weakened after the  European
Central Bank  awarded a second round of three-year loans to
banks, increasing the supply of the currency and boosting demand
for higher-yielding assets.  The 17-nation currency declined versus all but one of its
16 major counterparts as the ECB said it will lend financial
institutions 529.5 billion euros ($712 billion) for three years,
surpassing the 470 billion euros forecast by economists. The
Australian dollar climbed to the strongest since August after
the ECB announcement as European bond yields fell.  “The market is viewing this as generally risk-on, you’re
seeing Aussie, Canada and Norway doing well,” said Steven Englander, head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup
Inc. in  New York . “The big market reaction in recent days has
been in the degree to which short-term spreads between Spain and
Italy have converged with respect to  Germany .”  The euro dropped 1 percent against the  New Zealand dollar ,
and declined 0.7 percent against Australia’s currency. The
single currency fell 0.1 percent to $1.3451 at 9:34 a.m. in New
York, trimming this month’s gain to 2.7 percent. It weakened 0.2
percent to 108.10 yen.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said it will lend the funds to 800
financial institutions. In the ECB’s first three-year
refinancing operation in December, 523 banks borrowed 489
billion euros.  Narrowing Spread  The difference, or spread, between Spanish two-year bond
yields and those of similar-maturity German bunds has narrowed
to 217 basis points from as high as 563 basis points in
November. The spread between two-year Italian bond yields and
bunds narrowed to 197 basis points today, from a high of 720
basis points in November.  The dollar declined against higher-yielding currencies
before Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  testifies in
Congress today after saying last month that policy makers are
keeping open the option of another round of bond purchases.  Bernanke said after the Fed’s January meeting that the
central bank is considering buying more bonds after policy
makers extended their pledge to keep the benchmark interest rate
at “exceptionally low levels” at least through late 2014. The
Fed has engaged in two rounds of asset purchases, totaling $2.3
trillion, in so-called quantitative easing.  “What Bernanke says today is likely to confirm the market
view that the Fed will stick to its low-interest-rate policy,”
said Peter Rosenstreich, chief currency strategist at Swissquote
Bank SA in Geneva. “That will continue to make the dollar a
funding currency of choice”  U.S. Economy  Riskier currencies were also boosted after the Commerce
Department said the  U.S. economy  expanded at a revised 3 percent
annual rate, the most since the second quarter of 2010.  Canada ’s dollar added 0.7 percent to 98.87 Canadian cents
per  U.S. dollar  and reached 98.70, the strongest since Sept. 19.
Norway’s krone advanced 0.6 percent to 5.5358 per dollar.  Australia’s dollar rose for a third day against the
greenback after government data showed retail sales rose in
January, adding to speculation the  Reserve Bank  will keep the
highest interest rates among major developed economies.  Australian retail sales climbed 0.3 percent last month from
December, when they fell 0.1 percent, the Bureau of Statistics
said in Sydney today. The result matched the median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey of economists and is the biggest gain
since September.  ‘Risk-On World’  The retail sales figure “bucks the recent trend towards
weakness, which I think is a positive,” said  Todd Elmer , head
of Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy for  Asia  excluding
 Japan  at Citigroup Inc. in  Singapore . “That has the potential
to support  interest-rate  expectations and that only adds to the
attractiveness of the Aussie in a risk-on world.”  The Australian dollar rose 0.6 percent to $1.0834 after
climbing to $1.0856, the strongest level since Aug. 2.  The yen fell against all of its 16 major counterparts this
month, dropping 6.7 percent against nine developed-nation
currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes. The dollar fell 1.8 percent and Norway’s krone, the
best performer among the 10 currencies, rose 3.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  