-- European Banks May Double on ECB Loans, Fund Managers Say
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-02-29T16:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/european-bank-stocks-may-double-on-ecb-loans-fund-managers-say.html
The  European Central Bank , which
today offered lenders a second round of unlimited loans, will
help some bank stocks double this year, say top fund managers
who successfully bet on the biggest bank rally since 2009.  Italian lenders such as  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA 
and  Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl  will benefit the most from
the ECB initiative aimed at helping banks borrow during Europe’s
debt crisis, according to Nicolas Walewski, who manages 2
billion euros ($2.7 billion) in European equities at  Alken Asset
Management LLP . Other top managers from Mandarine Gestion SA and
MainFirst Bank AG are betting lenders including  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,
France’s biggest bank, may rise by as much as 50 percent.  ECB President Mario Draghi “has shown he’s willing to pump
in as much money as needed into the European bank sector,” said
London-based Walewski, whose European Opportunities Fund is in
the top decile of peers over three years and up 17 percent this
year, ahead of 95 percent of its rivals, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. “There’s a strong willingness to
continue with the  euro zone . This is very underestimated by the
Anglo Saxon world.”  The ECB offered banks unlimited three-year loans that carry
1 percent interest in December, reducing the threat of a bank
failure in the region. Lenders took 489 billion euros in the
first round of the Long Term Refinancing Operation and today
borrowed 529.5 billion euros, which was above the 470 billion
euro estimated in a Bloomberg News survey.  Bank Shares Rise  The 43-member  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index  has rallied 34 percent since its two-year low on Nov. 23,
the biggest three-month gain since 2009. The index rose 0.5
percent today.  “Italian banks are the most leveraged play and the safest
way to play to the LTROs,” said Walewski, 46, who began buying
bank stocks early this year. “Italian banks were priced for
oblivion until recently,” said the fund manager, who also owns
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s biggest bank. “Some of these banks could
easily double still.”  European bank stocks had plunged 41 percent since the start
of last year on concern  Greece  would default, sparking a
financial contagion around the continent. The region’s bank
stocks traded for as little as half their book value by
November, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Potential Is Huge’  Even after the rally, “banks are still the most
undervalued sector in the market,” said Yohan Salleron, Paris-
based co-manager of the 925 million-euro  Mandarine Valeur Fund (MANDVAL) ,
which has returned 19 percent in the last three months. “Banks
have rallied a lot, but if you want a correction of the excess
negativity, the potential is huge,” said Salleron, whose three-
month and three-year performance beat 90 percent of his peers.  Salleron holds lenders such as BNP and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,
Italy’s second-biggest bank, because of their dominance of
consumer banking in their home markets and strong balance
sheets, he said. The banks should trade at 1.2 times the value
of their assets compared with the 0.7 to 0.8 times they are now
priced at, he said. That implies a potential 50 percent rise in
the share price, according to Salleron’s calculations.  The fund manager’s holdings declined 13.8 percent in the
last 12 months, putting the fund in the bottom 18 percent of its
peers because Salleron and his co-manager, Marc Renaud, bought
into banks too early.  “It was a mistake for us,” Salleron said. “We
underestimated the euro-zone debt crisis and underestimated the
contagion effects from Greece to Italy.”  Herro Rebounds  He wasn’t the only high-profile manager to make that
mistake last year. David Herro, the Chicago-based manager of the
$8.5 billion  Oakmark International Fund (OAKIX)  and  Morningstar Inc. ’s
international fund manager of the decade, underperformed 56
percent of his peer group last year as bets on  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) , Intesa Sanpaolo and BNP didn’t pay off.  Herro, 52, stuck with the stocks and his fund is up 16.4
percent this year and in the top 4 percentile of its peer group,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit Suisse, BNP and
Intesa Sanpaolo have rallied 11 percent to 25 percent since the
LTRO on Dec. 8. Herro declined to comment for this story.  The Frankfurt-based central bank is flooding Europe’s banks
with cheap money to head off a second credit crunch in four
years, sparked by Greece’s inability to pay its debts and
surging bond yields. Under the program, banks can borrow from
the ECB at 1 percent and invest the proceeds in 10-year Italian
 government bonds  yielding 5.35 percent.  The so-called carry trade will help boost banks’ earnings
by 5 percent to 10 percent and improve liquidity, Walewski said.  Higher demand for sovereign debt has helped reduce yields,
making it easier for southern European countries to fund
themselves. Spanish five-year bond yields have dropped to 3.58
percent from 6.24 percent since the LTRO was announced in
November.  ‘No Risk’  “The ECB is putting a floor on the financial system and is
flooding the market with sufficient liquidity,” said Olgerd Eichler, 44, who manages the 640 million-euro  MainFirst Top
European Ideas Fund (MFTPEIA)  in  Frankfurt . “In the short term there’s no
risk of any failure, but in the long-term the economy must pick
up,” he said.  Eichler’s fund, which is in the top 2 percent of its peer
group over the last three years, has almost 20 percent of its
assets in bank stocks, including BNP,  Spain ’s  Banco Santander
SA (SAN) ,  ING Groep NV (INGA)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank. If the
euro region’s economy recovers from its 0.3 percent decline in
gross domestic product in the fourth quarter of last year, banks
may rally by at least 30 percent, he said.  Priced In?  By contrast, much of the LTRO’s benefits may have already
been priced into bank stocks, according to Zurich-based Tom Stubbe Olsen, manager of European Value Partners AG’s value
fund, which has 900 million euros of assets and has beaten 86
percent of rivals over the last three years.  “Sell-side analysts are now upgrading banks,” said Olsen,
who owns UBS stock. “The question is whether a good part of the
run has already been made on this adjustment to the new
environment that the ECB has made.”  That doesn’t concern Walewski, who founded Alken Asset
Management in 2005. “A lot of outsiders in  New York  and  London 
have totally misread this situation,” he said. “People will
work very hard to make  Europe  work. The tide is already
beginning to turn in Ireland, Italy and Spain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  