-- Euro Rises Second Day Against Yen Before ECB Allots Loans; Aussie Advances
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-02-29T09:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/euro-approaches-three-month-high-before-ecb-bank-refinancing-operation.html
The euro strengthened for a second
day against the yen on speculation the  European Central Bank ’s
allotment of three-year loans to banks today will boost demand
for the region’s assets.  The dollar declined against higher-yielding currencies
before Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  testifies in
Congress today after saying last month that policy makers are
keeping open the option to boost bond purchases.  Australia ’s
dollar advanced to a three-week high versus the greenback after
a report showed  consumer spending  increased.  “The euro may not be the best currency out there because
of risk, but price action suggests people believe liquidity
measures by the ECB will support it,” said Peter Rosenstreich,
chief currency strategist at Swissquote Bank SA in Geneva. The
market consensus is that the ECB will give out between 350
billion euros to 550 billion euros of loans, and “if it goes
above that, it will be good for risk appetite and euro assets.”  The euro gained 0.2 percent to 108.45 yen at 9:49 a.m. in
 London  after rising to 109.93 yen on Feb. 27, the strongest
since Oct. 31. The common currency was little changed at $1.3461
after climbing to $1.3487 on Feb. 24, the highest since
December. The dollar was little changed at 80.57 yen.  Second Operation  The euro has appreciated 2.8 percent against the dollar
this month as analysts forecast the ECB will grant the region’s
banks 470 billion euros in its second longer-term refinancing
operation, according to a Bloomberg News survey. The central
bank lent a record 489 billion euros in its first refinancing
operation on Dec. 21.  “If you get a good number, the euro will do well,” said
Kurt Magnus, executive director of currency sales in Sydney at
Nomura Holdings Inc. “It would provide a stimulus to risk
currencies and risk itself.”  Gains in the euro were tempered after Ireland said it will
hold a referendum on ratifying the European fiscal compact after
government ministers sought to frame the campaign as a vote on
the nation’s determination to keep the common currency.  Prime Minister  Enda Kenny , speaking in the Dublin
parliament yesterday, said the government will name a date for
the ballot in the coming weeks.  The dollar weakened 0.6 percent against Taiwan’s currency,
0.6 percent versus New Zealand’s and 0.5 percent against the
South Korean won.  ‘Exceptionally Low’  Bernanke said last month the central bank is considering
buying more bonds after policy makers extended their pledge to
keep the benchmark  interest rate  at “exceptionally low levels”
at least through late 2014. The Fed has engaged in two rounds of
asset purchases, totaling $2.3 trillion in so-called
quantitative easing.  The dollar has declined 3.8 percent in the past three
months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
which track 10 developed-market currencies. The yen lost 7.3
percent and the euro fell 2.8 percent.  Australia’s currency rose for a third day versus the  U.S.
dollar  after a report showed retail sales advanced the most in
four months in January.  Sales increased 0.3 percent from February when they
declined 0.1 percent, the statistics bureau said.  The report “adds to the attractiveness of the Aussie in a
risk-on world,” said  Todd Elmer , head of Group-of-10 foreign-
exchange strategy for  Asia  excluding  Japan  at Citigroup Inc. in
 Singapore .  The so-called Aussie rose 0.4 percent to $1.0811 after
climbing to $1.0823, the strongest level since Feb. 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  