-- Euro-Region Inflation Unexpectedly Slows
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-02-29T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/euro-region-inflation-unexpectedly-slows-as-economy-weakens.html
Euro-area inflation  unexpectedly
slowed in January as the economy cooled and governments cut
spending across the 17-nation currency region.  The  inflation rate  in the euro area dropped to 2.6 percent
from 2.7 percent in the previous month, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said today. It had initially
estimated January’s inflation rate at 2.7 percent. Before
today’s revision, economists forecast February inflation, due
tomorrow, to slow to 2.6 percent, according to the median of 35
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  European companies are struggling to pass on higher costs
as budget cuts undermine consumer sentiment just as global
export demand weakens. Still, while the European Commission
predicts that the region’s economy will shrink this year,
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has said the
situation “seems to be stabilizing.”  Consumer prices dropped 0.8 percent from December, the
statistics office said. Inflation slowed in 16 out of 27 EU
member states, accelerated in nine and remained steady in two.
Euro-region  core inflation , excluding volatile costs, slowed to
1.5 percent from 1.6 percent in December.  Cost Pressures  Energy costs rose 9.2 percent in January from a year
earlier, down from a 9.7 percent gain in the previous month,
today’s report showed. Prices of clothes rose 0.9 percent.  Adding to signs of easing cost pressures across the region,
 producer-price inflation  probably slowed to 3.5 percent in
January from 4.3 percent in the previous month, a Bloomberg
survey shows. Euro-region unemployment may have held at 10.4
percent in January, according to a separate survey.  The ECB, which aims to keep inflation just below 2 percent,
will hold its next monetary assessment on March 8. It will
publish its latest inflation projections on the same day.  “The euro area has entered into a mild recession,” EU
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said at a
briefing on Feb. 23. “Prospects have worsened and risks to the
growth outlook remain but there are signs of stabilization at
the same time, especially in the more recent period.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  