-- European Stocks Are Little Changed, Post the Best Start to Year Since 1998
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-02-29T17:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/european-stock-futures-advance-before-ecb-allots-long-term-loans-to-banks.html
European stocks  were little changed,
erasing earlier gains, after U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  failed to signal further monetary easing in a
testimony to the Congress.  Hochtief AG shares had their biggest decline in a month
after the company suspended its dividend payout.  Holcim (HOLN)  Ltd.,
the world’s second-biggest cement maker, climbed as sales and
earnings topped forecasts.  ITV Plc (ITV)  jumped the most in a year.  The  Stoxx Europe 600  (SXXP) Index was unchanged at 264.32 at the
close in London. Stocks earlier gained as much as 0.8 percent
after the  European Central Bank  allotted more funds than
projected under its long-term refinancing operation. The gauge
rallied 3.9 percent in February and 8.1 percent so far this
year, the biggest increase in the first two months of a year
since 1998.  “While the evolving European developments have the
potential to meaningfully impact the direction of markets, our
central expectation is for continued uncertainty and associated
high volatility in underlying markets,” said Morten Spenner,
the London-based chief executive officer of International Asset
Management Ltd., which oversees $2.5 billion.  Bernanke said today that keeping monetary stimulus is
warranted even as jobless claims fall and rising oil prices may
push inflation up temporarily in the world’s largest economy.  Policy makers judge that “sustaining a highly
accommodative stance for monetary policy is consistent with
promoting both objectives” of the Fed for stable prices and
maximum employment, Bernanke said in a testimony to the House
Financial Services Committee in  Washington .  The Stoxx 600 has rallied 23 percent since last year’s low
as the ECB boosted lending to banks at below-market rates and
U.S. economic data topped estimates.  ECB Funding  The ECB said today it will lend 800 financial institutions
529.5 billion euros ($712.2 billion) for 1,092 days. Economists
predicted an allotment of 470 billion euros, according to the
median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Banks
borrowed 489 billion euros in the first three-year operation in
December.  “It has stopped the fears about systemic risk,” Patrick Legland, head of research at Societe Generale SA, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today, referring to the ECB loan
operation. “This is very good. What we need is step two --
additional measures to support the economy.”  The  U.S. economy  expanded 3 percent, more than forecast, in
the fourth quarter as companies rebuilt inventories in
anticipation of growing demand.  National benchmark indexes declined in 10 of the 18
western-European markets today.  Germany ’s DAX fell 0.5 percent,
 France ’s CAC was little changed and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 lost 1
percent.  Fiscal Compact  European Union leaders may consider relaxing budget-deficit
targets to take into account economic growth at a summit in
Brussels this week, EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia 
told reporters in  Madrid  today.  Of the 229 that have reported quarterly earnings so far,
116 have missed analysts’ estimates, while 101 have beaten them,
according to the data.  Hochtief tumbled 5 percent to 52.41 euros after it said it
won’t pay a dividend for 2011 and that the pretax profit for
last year will be “slightly below” the amount in 2010.  Bouygues SA (EN)  fell 2.1 percent to 23.88 euros. The French
building, television and telecommunications company said revenue
this year will fall by 1 percent, led by its mobile-phone
business. The company reported a 2011 profit that beat analyst
forecasts.  BSkyB, Aberdeen  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc lost 2.3 percent to 670
pence after its chairman  James Murdoch  stepped down as executive
chairman of  News Corp .’s U.K. publishing News International
unit. Voice-mail interception by tabloid journalists in the U.K.
forced News Corp. to drop its bid for British Sky Broadcasting
Group last year. U.K. lawmakers are currently preparing a report
about Murdoch’s role in the scandal and may publish their
findings in the coming weeks.  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  dropped 5 percent to 240.7
pence. Barclays Plc and Credit Suisse Group AG managed the sale
of shares owned by Credit Suisse in the asset manager at 240
pence apiece, according to two people familiar with the
offering. The banks were offering as much as 57 million shares
in the sale, according to the terms of sale obtained by
Bloomberg.  Holcim gained 1.2 percent to 59 Swiss francs. Full-year
sales of 20.7 billion Swiss francs ($23.1 billion) beat
expectations for a revenue of 20.4 billion francs. Earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 3.96
billion francs topped the forecast for 3.85 billion francs.  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  advanced 4.3 percent, the most since
Feb. 2, to 18.84 euros as fourth-quarter net income surpassed
analyst projections.  Swiss Life added 2.2 percent to 104.30 francs after
declaring a full-year dividend of 4.50 francs. The company said
it expects to “expand market position.”  ITV climbed 6.8 percent to 85.95 pence, the biggest
increase since March 02, 2011. The U.K.’s biggest terrestrial
commercial broadcaster reported 2011 profit that beat analysts’
estimates as the company made agreements to offer TV online,
expanding services that don’t rely as heavily on advertising.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  