-- Ex-General Re Executives Face Fraud Retrial in January 2013
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-02-29T19:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/ex-general-re-executives-face-2013-retrial-over-aig-investor-fraud-charges.html
Four former executives at General
Reinsurance Corp. and one at  American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
face a Jan. 22 retrial on charges of defrauding AIG investors of
as much as $597 million.  U.S. District Judge Vanessa Bryant will preside over the
trial in Hartford,  Connecticut , according to an order made
public yesterday. On Aug. 1, the U.S. Court of Appeals in  New
York  ordered a new trial, reversing the executives’ convictions
in 2008.  Federal jurors in Hartford convicted former  General Re (134618Q) 
Chief Executive Officer Ronald Ferguson, ex-Chief Financial
Officer Elizabeth Monrad, ex-Senior Vice President Christopher Garand and ex-Assistant General Counsel Robert Graham. Former
AIG Vice President Christian Milton also was found guilty.  Prosecutors said the fraud involved a sham transaction in
2000 and 2001 to inflate AIG’s loss reserves by $500 million. It
preceded the financial crisis of New York-based AIG, which got a
bailout of $182.3 billion from U.S. taxpayers. The appeals court
said the trial judge at the time, Christopher Droney,
erroneously let prosecutors show jurors three charts with AIG
stock-price data. Droney has since joined the appeals court.  Droney also erred by improperly instructing the jury on
causation, according to the appeals court  opinion .  He had sentenced Milton to four years in prison, Ferguson
to two years, Monrad to 18 months, and Garand and Graham each to
one year. They are free on bail pending appeal. Two General Re
executives who pleaded guilty testified as prosecution witnesses
and were sentenced to probation.  Bryant’s order set a schedule for prosecutors and defense
lawyers, including a pretrial conference on Dec. 3 and jury
selection on Jan. 3.  The case is U.S. v. Ferguson, 08-6211,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Second Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 