-- Former News Corp. Executive Rebekah Brooks Was Hacked by News of the World
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-02-29T16:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/ex-news-corp-exec-brooks-was-hacked.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  Chairman  Rupert Murdoch ’s
former top U.K. executive, Rebekah Brooks, was a regular victim
of phone-hacking by the company’s News of the World tabloid when
she edited the Sun newspaper, a police detective said today.  London police investigating two News of the World employees
in 2006 found evidence Brooks’s mobile-phone messages were
hacked into twice a week starting in 2005, Philip Williams, a
detective chief superintendent who oversaw the probe, told a
judge-led inquiry into media ethics today. Brooks, who was
arrested last year in a new phone-hacking probe, declined to
join the prosecution as a victim at the time, Williams said.  The inquiry is probing the relationship between  U.K. police 
and the press after the 2006 case and a related 2009 probe
didn’t uncover the extent of the scandal. The new investigation,
begun in January 2011, revealed the practice was widespread,
leading to dozens of arrests, the closure of the News of the
World and resignations of two top police officials.  “One has to question why she took no action on being told
that her phone was hacked,”  Mark Lewis , a lawyer for phone-
hacking victims, said in an interview. “It seems that she was
reluctant to ask questions because she didn’t want the
answers.”  James Murdoch Resigns  Murdoch closed the News of the World in July to help
contain the hacking scandal. His son,  James Murdoch , resigned as
News International’s executive chairman as part of his
relocation to  New York , the company said today in a statement.  Brooks’s phone “was one of the most accessed since 2005,”
the inquiry’s lead lawyer, Robert Jay, said of police evidence
of phone-hacking victims.  David Wilson , Brooks’s spokesman, didn’t immediately return
a call or e-mail seeking comment.  At the time Brooks’s messages were intercepted, the News of
the World was edited by  Andy Coulson , who later became press
chief for U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and was arrested
around the same time as Brooks in the phone-hacking probe.  Brooks edited the News of the World from 2000 to 2003 and
the Sun from 2003 to 2009, when she was promoted to chief
executive officer of London-based News International. She held
that role until her resignation in July, two days before her
arrest.  The inquiry earlier heard evidence that Brooks was tipped
off about the status of the 2006 probe and kept a retired police
horse in her stable from 2008 to 2010.  Goodman, Mulcaire  Investigators focused in the first probe on the paper’s
royal reporter  Clive Goodman  and private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire , who were jailed for phone-hacking in 2007, and didn’t
follow-up on details suggesting others may have been involved,
Williams said.  News Corp.’s power wasn’t the reason London police dropped
their probe and didn’t look further, he said.  “I accept there were further leads we could have
followed,” Williams said. “I knew there was a range of names
in the evidence. We always propositioned this could be more
widespread.”  The evidence in the criminal case came from 11,000 pages of
notes seized during Mulcaire’s arrest.  Goodman and Mulcaire pleaded guilty to hacking the voice-
mail messages of three members of the royal household and five
other people, including model  Elle Macpherson . Police didn’t
tell 419 people on a list compiled at the time that their
messages may have been intercepted by Mulcaire. Police now say
there are 829 “likely” victims.  “I understand people think more people should have been
informed, but I assure you this was not me trying to limit”
awareness of what was going on, Williams said. There wasn’t
enough proof that the voice mails of each person had actually
been listened to, he said.  Judge Brian Leveson, who is overseeing the inquiry, said
the evidence was at least proof of a conspiracy against the 419
people, and that similar evidence of a planned bank robbery
would have resulted in the bank being warned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  