-- MF Global Trustee Says Customers May Get Insurance Proceeds
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-02-29T21:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/mf-global-trustee-says-customers-may-get-insurance-proceeds.html
MF Global Inc. (MFGLQ) ’s brokerage customers
may be able to recover some of their lost funds from insurance
proceeds meant to pay defense costs of the failed brokerage’s
directors and officers, said a trustee overseeing the
brokerage’s wind-down.  James Giddens, the trustee, said proceeds of so-called
directors and officers insurance may provide a source of
recovery for any shortfall in customer accounts. Claims from
individual customers or from the trustee himself could help
recover them, he said in court papers filed in  Manhattan 
bankruptcy court yesterday.  “The coverage under the D&O Policy is a valuable asset,
which should be protected and preserved by this court for the
benefit of MFGI customers,” lawyers for Giddens wrote. Giddens
added that he didn’t oppose payment of some “reasonable and
necessary” defense costs under the policies.  Customers have objected to the use of the failed
brokerage’s insurance coverage for former employees, saying
policies including one worth $170 million insurance should
instead be used to repay customers whose money went missing from
segregated accounts when the brokerage failed.  U.S. Specialty Insurance Co. also issued a $25 million
insurance policy to the company before its bankruptcy, and seeks
the ability to make payments for senior management’s defense
costs in lawsuits brought by customers, according to court
papers.  ‘Vital for Customers’  Customers including Paradigm Global Fund Ltd. said in court
papers filed yesterday that such lawsuits are “vital for
customers to recover their funds in full” and that proceeds
from the insurance policies shouldn’t go to pay defense costs
until its decided whether the trustee can use proceeds to
satisfy customer claims.  Louis Freeh , a trustee overseeing the separate, related
bankruptcy of  MF Global (MFGLQ) ’s holding company, MF Global Holdings
Ltd., has asked court permission to draw on insurance policies
held by MFG Assurance, a wholly owned subsidiary of MF Global
Holdings Ltd.  While Giddens oversees the return of funds to customers,
Freeh oversees the return of funds to creditors, including
lender  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   MF Global Holdings, once run by former New Jersey Governor
 Jon Corzine , filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct. 31
after getting margin calls and bank demands for money. The
brokerage and the parent are in different bankruptcy proceedings
handled by two trustees.  Giddens currently estimates the gap between customer claims
and funds available to pay them at $1.6  billion.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in  New York  at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  