-- Facebook to Show Mobile Ads to Help Boost Sales Before IPO
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-02-29T23:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/facebook-upgrades-tools-to-help-businesses-manage-brand-profiles.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , the world’s largest
social-networking site, is making its first push into mobile
advertising, seeking a new source of revenue ahead of a planned
initial public offering this year.  The company said today that it will begin showing ads to
the 425 million users of its mobile site. Advertisers will be
able to insert marketing messages into the news feed feature for
people who access Facebook from wireless handsets, customer
marketing director Mike Hoefflinger said today during an event
in  New York . Facebook also announced other tools designed to
help companies interact with customers on its pages.  Facebook, said to seek an IPO valuation of as high as $100
billion, will use mobile advertising to increase sales that
almost doubled to $3.71 billion last year. The move would also
help Facebook tackle one of the key risks it outlined in
regulatory filings, saying that a lack of mobile ads could
hamper growth prospects.  “Mobile usage is going through the roof,” said Rebecca
Lieb, an analyst at the Altimeter Group in New York. “It will
be an ever bigger part of Facebook’s revenue.”  The company said in its IPO prospectus that “if we are
unable to successfully implement monetization strategies for our
mobile users, our revenue and financial results may be
negatively affected.”  Display-Ad Scuffle  In other changes announced today, Facebook is giving
businesses more flexibility in posting photos and other content,
letting companies interact with potential customers in some of
the same ways individual users share information with their
friends.  The company is on the lookout for ways to get advertisers
to pick Facebook over competing Internet companies, including
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  While Facebook outpaced  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  to become the
biggest U.S. provider of display advertising last year, Google
is now vying for the No. 1 spot, according to New York-based
EMarketer Inc.  Marketers with Facebook pages will be able to create a
“Timeline,” which lets them publish a larger photo and list
company milestones in chronological order, the company said.
That feature will be available by the end of March, along with
new administrative tools the let them track the activity of
visitors to these pages.  “Facebook wants brands to make these pages their home on
the Web and is giving them the tools and ability to do that,”
said Debra Aho Williamson, an analyst at EMarketer.  Users On Way Out  Facebook also said that it would let marketers show a large
banner ad to users when they log out of the social network.
Those messages have the potential to reach the 105 million users
who log out of their Facebook accounts each month, Facebook’s
Hoefflinger said today.  Advertising sales rose 69 percent to $3.15 billion last
year, making up 85 percent of the total, according to the
company’s  IPO filing . That came as the number of ads delivered
rose 42 percent and the average price per ad climbed 18 percent.  Facebook began offering its “Sponsored Stories” ads last
year. With these ads, a marketer pays to be featured in user
feeds if the users have signaled an affinity for a brand or
business, such as by “liking” it.  Facebook’s planned foray into mobile advertising was
initially reported by Bloomberg last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  