-- Fed Says Economy Expanded at ‘Modest to Moderate’ Pace
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-02-29T20:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/fed-says-u-s-economy-expanded-at-a-modest-to-moderate-pace-last-month.html
The  Federal Reserve  said the  U.S.
economy  expanded at a “modest to moderate pace” in January and
early February as factories increased production.  “Manufacturing continued to expand at a steady pace across
the nation,” with “several districts indicating gains in
capital spending, especially in auto-related industries,” the
Fed said today in its Beige Book business survey, published two
weeks before the Federal Open Market Committee meets to set
monetary policy.  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said in congressional testimony
today that maintaining monetary stimulus is warranted even as
the  unemployment rate  falls and rising oil prices may cause
inflation to rise temporarily. Policy makers, who next meet on
March 13, said in January that economic slack and subdued
inflation are likely to warrant exceptionally low rates through
late 2014, extending a previous date of mid-2013.  “The Beige Book shows the economy continues to do better,
but has a long way to go before it is robust,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at Jefferies & Co. in New
York. “It is slightly more upbeat” than the prior two reports.
“Growth is still very slow two and a half years into a
recovery.”  The central bank cited the districts of  Cleveland ,  Chicago ,
 Kansas City , Dallas and  San Francisco  as reporting moderate
growth. In its January survey, the Fed applied the term only to
Dallas and San Francisco.  Consumer Spending  “Reports of  consumer spending  were generally positive
except for sales of seasonal items, and the sales outlook for
the near future was mostly optimistic,” the Fed said. The
housing market has “improved somewhat in most districts” with
“several reports of increased home sales and some reports of
increased construction.”  The report offers anecdotal evidence that will help central
bankers weigh developments in an economy where unemployment is
projected to remain above 8 percent through the end of the year.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent to
1,368.62 at 3:01 p.m. in New York after rising as much as 0.4
percent. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 1.98
percent from 1.94 percent yesterday.  Fed officials last month were keeping open the option of a
third round of bond purchases in case the economy weakens or
inflation falls.  January Meeting  “A few” members of the FOMC said economic conditions
could warrant buying assets “before long,” and others
indicated that action would become necessary if the “economy
lost momentum” or price gains seemed likely to remain lower
than the Fed’s 2 percent goal, according to minutes of their
Jan. 24-25 meeting.  Today’s  Beige Book  reflects information collected on or
before Feb. 17 and summarized by the St. Louis Fed.  The U.S. economy expanded at a 3 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, the fastest pace in more than a year, as
households spent more freely, the government reported today.
Growth will probably slow to 2.1 percent this quarter, according
to the median of 81 economists’ forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey from Feb. 3 to Feb. 9.  “At present, with the unemployment rate elevated and the
inflation outlook subdued, the committee judges that sustaining
a highly accommodative stance for monetary policy is consistent
with promoting both objectives” of the Fed for stable prices
and maximum employment, Bernanke said today in testimony to the
House Financial Services Committee in Washington.  Regional Differences  The Fed report said economic gains varied widely. The St.
Louis district had “modest” growth, and  Minneapolis  was
“firm.” Philadelphia and Atlanta were “somewhat faster” and
 New York  was “somewhat slower,” while Boston and Richmond had
activity that “expanded or improved” in most sectors.  Most districts saw a “slight increase” in hiring, in part
because employers in some areas, including Boston, Cleveland,
Richmond and Chicago, were having difficulty finding skilled
workers.  The U.S. jobless rate fell to 8.3 percent, the lowest in
three years, in January, with the 243,000 increase in payrolls
including gains in manufacturing, construction, temporary help
agencies, accounting firms, restaurants and retailers.  Some Fed officials say recent economic gains may not last.
“The recent economic news has been encouraging, but in my view
we haven’t seen enough sustained improvement to be sure it will
last,” Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said Feb. 14.
“The labor markets are going to be sluggish for quite a
while,” St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said Feb. 3.  Atlanta-based Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the largest U.S. home-
improvement retailer, reported fourth-quarter profit that
exceeded analysts’ estimates on Feb. 21.  ‘Large Projects’  “Certainly we think that as the economy continues to
improve, hopefully as unemployment improves, that people will
continue to want to do small and large projects in their home,”
Chief Executive Officer  Frank Blake  said on an analyst
conference call.  “Prices of final goods and services were relatively stable
in most districts,” the Fed said, and wage pressures were
“limited.”  The Fed’s preferred inflation gauge -- the core personal-
consumption expenditures price index, which strips out food and
energy -- rose at an annual rate of 1.8 percent in the year
ended December. Fed officials have set an explicit inflation
target of 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in  Washington  at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  