-- Fed’s Pianalto Says Headwinds Make for Only Moderate U.S. Economic Growth
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-02-29T01:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/fed-s-pianalto-says-headwinds-make-for-only-moderate-growth.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
President  Sandra Pianalto  said depressed housing markets and
fiscal austerity are impeding the economy, making it likely
growth will be 2.5 percent in 2012 and 3 percent next year.  “Given this outlook for economic growth, it could take as
long as four to five years to achieve maximum employment, which
I estimate to be consistent with an unemployment rate of about 6
percent,” Pianalto said today in a speech in Westfield Center,
Ohio. “The recovery from the recent financial and economic
crisis has been frustratingly slow.”  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  said last
month it plans to hold the main  interest rate  near zero through
at least late 2014 to reduce an  unemployment rate  that has been
stuck above 8 percent for the past three years.  Monetary policy 
at the moment is “appropriately positioned” to keep prices
stable and support the economic recovery, said Pianalto, who is
a voting member of the FOMC this year.  U.S. stocks rose today, sending the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  to its first close above 13,000 since 2008 on growing
signs that the economy is gaining traction. The Dow added 23.61
points, or 0.2 percent, to 13,005.12.  The Conference Board’s  consumer confidence index  increased
in February to the highest level in a year, data showed today,
signaling households may be able to continue spending as
employment prospects improve. Jobless claims held at a four-year
low of 351,000 in the week ended Feb. 18, Labor Department
reported last week.  Ohio’s Economy  Speaking to the Medina County Economic Development
Corporation, the Cleveland Fed chief devoted most of her speech
today to  Ohio ’s economy.  “Despite our region’s relatively stronger performance than
the nation as a whole during this recovery, we cannot pat
ourselves on the back and relax,” Pianalto said. “We need to
take a longer view and focus on the factors that drive
sustainable economic growth.”  In response to a question from the audience, Pianalto said
the Fed’s pledge to keep the main interest rate low through at
least late 2014 isn’t a set commitment.  “It is our best thinking” that “works off of our
economic outlook,” she said. ‘If that outlook were to change
significantly, then our monetary policy stance could also
change.”  The Cleveland Fed President said the outlook for inflation
is “a little more encouraging,” with prices gains likely to
remain close to 2 percent “for the next few years.”  “Still, the recent increases in  oil prices  and housing
rents could complicate the inflation picture if they persist,”
she said. “I’m not concerned that growth in the  money supply  is
going to translate into future inflation.”  Pianalto, 57, first joined the Cleveland Fed in 1983 as an
economist and became president of the district bank in 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net 
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  