-- Fed Begins Tri-Party Reverse Repos With Expanded Counterparties
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-02-29T18:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/fed-begins-tri-party-reverse-repos-with-expanded-counterparties.html
The  Federal Reserve  said it’s
conducting tri-party reverse repurchase agreements with
additional counterparties as policy makers prepare for the
eventual withdrawal of monetary stimulus.  The transactions, part of a series of open-market
operations that began in 2009, don’t represent any change in
monetary policy, according to a statement on the Federal Reserve
Bank of  New York ’s website yesterday. All eligible securities
will be used as collateral today.  Eight banks and two primary dealer counterparties added
last year will be included. Subsequent operations during this
period will include all eligible counterparties, including
designated money market mutual funds,  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac , as well as its complete list of primary dealers. The Fed
began expanding its counterparties in 2010 to increase the
capacity for the eventual draining of reserves as primary
dealers shore up their own balance sheets after the worst
financial crisis in decades.  In a reverse repo, the Fed lends securities for a set
period, temporarily draining cash from the banking system. At
maturity, the securities are returned to the Fed, and the cash
to its counterparties. The central bank added more than $1
trillion in extra cash to its balance sheet as part of its
effort to combat the financial crisis.  In a tri-party arrangement, a third party functions as the
agent for the transaction and holds the security as collateral.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  are the
only banks that serve in a trade-clearing capacity in the tri-
party repo market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  