-- Fewer Options for Repo Collateral May Pinch Money-Market Funds, Fitch Says
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-02-29T20:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/fewer-options-for-repo-collateral-may-pinch-money-market-funds-fitch-says.html
U.S. prime money-market mutual funds
may face lower yields and fewer investment choices in the market
for borrowing and lending securities if the  Federal Reserve 
restricts collateral options, according to  Fitch Ratings .  A further reduction in short-term  interest rates  may make
it even harder for the $2.6 trillion money-market fund industry
to retain customer assets. Record low rates since late 2008 amid
unprecedented central-bank monetary stimulus have put pressure
on the industry, whose assets fell 31 percent in the past two
years as of last month.  The Fed  said  on Feb. 15 it will boost its oversight of
reform efforts in the $1.6 trillion tri-party repurchase
agreement, or repo, market and will consider restrictions on the
types of collateral that can be used. The 10 largest U.S. money
funds eligible to purchase corporate debt, which account for
more than 5 percent of the market, have raised over the past
year their allocation to higher-risk collateral, such as
corporate debt, stocks and structured finance, Fitch said.  “If certain types of collateral, specifically the lowest
quality, are restricted, then there will be generally less
collateral available and rates should fall,” Viktoria
Baklanova, a New York-based senior director in Fitch’s fund and
asset-management group, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“This would add to a generally very challenging environment for
money-market funds both in terms of yield and credit. The
overall direction the Fed is taking now is positive for
containing systemic concerns, but there are always costs.”  Short-Term Funding  Repos are transactions used by the Fed’s primary dealers
for short-term funding. They typically involve the sale of U.S.
government securities in exchange for cash, with the debt held
as collateral for the loan. Dealers agree to repurchase the
securities at a later date, and cash is sent back to the lender,
which often are money-market funds.  In a tri-party arrangement, a third party, one of two
clearing banks, functions as the agent for the transaction and
holds the security as collateral.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  serve as the industry’s clearing banks.  The central bank has kept its rate for overnight loans
between banks locked in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008 and said last month it will keep the benchmark low
until at least late 2014. Money fund yields average  0.06 percent 
for the biggest 100 taxable funds, according to Crane Data, down
from 0.61 percent three years ago.  Required Assistance  The Fed has been seeking to strengthen the tri-party repo
market, which neared collapse in 2008 amid the bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and required assistance. The
central bank intensified its effort after a private-sector Tri-
Party Repo Infrastructure Reform  Task Force  that it sponsored
issued a final report last month, saying more time and effort
were needed.  Prime money-market funds’ investments include banks’
certificate of deposits, commercial paper, repurchase agreements
and short-term notes and deposits.  At the end of 2011, Fitch-rated prime money funds allocated
on average 6.5 percent of their total assets to repos backed by
nongovernment collateral, marking a “big rise over the previous
few years,” Baklanova said. The ratings company issued a report
Feb. 3 on the repo market and posted a comment on its website
last week on restricting collateral.  In Fitch’s sample of the 10 largest funds, encompassing
about $90 billion in repo transactions, the average rate on
repos backed by structured finance collateral yielded on average
more than 50 basis points, or 0.50 percentage point, as of
August 2011, while those backed by Treasuries yielded about five
basis points and agency collateral repos yielded 15 basis
points. Nearly 75 percent of the structured finance collateral
consists of residential mortgage-backed securities, such as
those backed by subprime and Alt-A loans, Fitch said.  ‘Good Idea’  “Restricting the tri-party repo market to what are judged
to be liquid, marketable, transparent securities, obviously
including Treasuries and agencies, is a good idea, at least
until the market infrastructure is significantly more robust,”
 Darrell Duffie , a finance professor at  Stanford University ’s
Graduate School of Business, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “We don’t want illiquid or hard-to-value and trade
securities going through the tri-party repo market in a
significant way.”  Antoine Martin, assistant vice president and function head
of money and payments at the New York Fed, wrote today in his
 personal blog  that “in aggregate the composition of collateral
being financed in the tri-party repo market is not decreasing in
quality.” He cited his analysis of public data previously
released by the private-sector task force.  This suggests the Fitch report “may be more about how
prime funds are reacting to a low-yield environment by reaching
for yield and taking on riskier collateral,” Martin wrote.
“This practice is problematic from a systemic risk
perspective,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  