-- Fink Says Savers Need to Become Investors in ‘New World’
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-02-29T17:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/fink-says-savers-need-to-be-investors-in-disruptive-new-world-.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s Laurence D. Fink
said savers need to become more aggressive investors as returns
on bank accounts and Treasuries shrink and people grow older.  The traditional mix of putting 60 percent of assets in
stocks and 40 percent in bonds is inadequate in a “new world”
characterized by an aging population, a reduction in borrowing
and risk-taking by individuals and governments, and a greater
role of emerging economies.  “I’ve personally said many times I would be 100 percent in
equities,” Fink, 59, said in a speech today to the  Council on
Foreign Relations  in New York. “Most investors need a more
diversified portfolio, but virtually every investor has to find
ways to achieve a better return than they’ll get in cash or
government bonds for the foreseeable future.”  The comments by Fink, chief executive officer of the
world’s largest asset management firm with $3.5 trillion in
assets, mark an effort by BlackRock to articulate an overarching
view of markets and how retail and institutional investors
should respond. Unlike  Bill Gross ’s Pacific Investment
Management Co., where investment decisions have been guided by
the firm’s “new normal” philosophy coined three years ago to
describe a world of below average economic growth, each of
BlackRock’s units has the freedom to articulate its own
investment outlook.  ‘Off the Sidelines’  “Our perspective of time is different from Wall Street
firms,” Fink said after the speech. Because asset managers have
a longer-term perspective, they have a responsibility to be more
vocal about what investors should do, Fink said.  Fink, who built New York-based BlackRock through a series
of acquisitions including the 2009 purchase of  Barclays Global
Investors , has since been working on establishing a common brand
for units ranging from exchange-traded funds to  hedge funds .  “Whether it comes from an individual, a corporation or a
pension fund, my answer is the same: you need to get off the
sidelines and get your money working again,” Fink said.  Fink, who urged investors to put all of their money in
equities earlier this month, later told BlackRock employees in
Beijing that the call was aimed at getting cash off the
sidelines and back into the  capital markets .  Investors near or at retirement without sufficient time to
build up assets may have to continue working, Fink said after
the speech.  ‘New Normal’  Pimco forecast a “new normal” in May 2009 of slower
growth in the developed economies, higher unemployment and
orderly deleveraging. Gross, founder and co-chief investment
officer of Pimco, wrote in his investment outlook in January
that the new normal was morphing into a world of credit and
zero-bound interest-rate risk.  A commentary posted by Gross on  Newport Beach , California-
based Pimco’s website yesterday said investors should embrace a
defensive strategy that includes emphasizing income,
deemphasizing derivative structures that are fully valued and
being willing to accept returns lower than historical averages.  Mutual fund companies are trying to reverse stock fund
redemptions after investors pulled money from funds that invest
in U.S. equities for five straight years, withdrawing $134
billion last year, according to the Washington-based  Investment
Company Institute .  Promoting Confidence  Financial institutions and governments can also help turn
savers into investors by passing regulations that promote
confidence in the markets, Fink said in today’s remarks.
Examples include better investor protections for futures trading
and clearer labeling of ETFs, he said.  Fink, who co-founded BlackRock in 1988, has built the firm
through acquisitions including the 2006 purchase of  Merrill
Lynch & Co. (MER) ’s investment unit. BlackRock acquired the hedge
fund-of-funds business of Quellos Group LLC in 2008. The company
last year expanded the alternatives division, which manages
hedge funds, real estate funds and private-equity strategies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  