-- First Iraq Casualty Among Veterans Honored at White House Dinner
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-03-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/first-iraq-war-casualty-among-guests-at-dinner-for-war-veterans.html
The Obama administration honored
veterans of the war in  Iraq  including a Marine who was the first
U.S. fighter wounded in the country, an Air Force staff sergeant
who served six tours and a gay female Army officer.  Among the 200 guests invited to a White House dinner
yesterday were service members from each branch of the military,
veterans and families of those who died in combat. The guest
list included people from every state and service members who
suffered traumatic brain injuries and amputations.  “Support us -- we do a good job,” Marine Corporal Steven
Schulz, 27, of Texas, said he would tell President  Barack Obama 
if he got the chance. Schulz, who attended the dinner with his
mother, Debbie Schulz, and his seeing-eye dog Sonny, was among
the more than 32,000 wounded in the war. The first was Marine
Staff Sergeant Eric Alva of  Texas .  Obama told attendees that America’s failure at times to
properly honor veterans returning from  Vietnam  was “a mistake
we must never repeat.” He said that the troops who served in
Iraq “taught us a lesson about the character of our country.”  “You persevered tour after tour, year after year,” he
said. “In your resilience, we see the essence of America.”  The U.S. war in Iraq that began in March 2003 ended
officially on Dec. 15, 2011. More than 1 million Americans
served in Iraq during that time, with almost 4,500 American
deaths, according to Pentagon figures.  ‘Difficult War’  The event reinforced the message that American communities
must continue supporting veterans who fought in the wars, said
Doug Wilson, a Defense Department spokesman. Obama last year
started an initiative to encourage private companies to train or
hire 100,000 post-Sept. 11, 2001, veterans or their spouses.  The guest list was compiled by the senior enlisted members
of each military service, according to Wilson.  Alva, who lost his leg after he stepped on a land mine near
Basra, has since earned a bachelor’s and master’s degree in
social work.  Schulz received the Purple Heart on his second deployment
to Iraq in 2005 as a lance corporal, after his Humvee hit a
roadside bomb near Fallujah that left him with severe traumatic
brain injury and blinded him in the right eye.  Their community of Friendswood, Texas, south of Houston
have provided “amazing” support to Steven, his mother said in
an interview at a pre-dinner reception in Arlington, Virginia.
That included a new house with help from a Rotary Club and a
program called Helping a Hero, Steven said.  ‘Everlasting Gratitude’  “The severely injured get a lot of recognition from
communities,” Debbie Schulz said. “If they could transfer to
the non-injured veterans the same love and support, that would
be even better.”  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  also spoke at the event,
expressing thanks for the veterans’ service.  “You’ve earned our nation’s everlasting gratitude,”
Panetta said. He said it is now the nation’s responsibility “to
embrace your return, to welcome you back” and give returning
service members the support they deserve.  At least two of the war veterans in attendance represented
an Obama policy victory -- last year’s repeal of the “Don’t
Ask, Don’t Tell” prohibition against homosexuals serving openly
in the military.  ‘Reap the Benefits’  Alva in 2007 publicly revealed he was gay and campaigned to
repeal the policy. He attended the dinner with his partner
Dustin L. Jones of Arlington, Virginia.  Lieutenant Colonel Beth Behn, 39, of  Iowa , with 17 years of
Army service, said she is “happy to reap the benefits” of the
repeal. She attended with her partner of 13 years, Julie Shappy,
43. They have a 4 1/2-year-old son and a 22-month-old daughter.  “This is the first formal event that she’s been able to
attend,” Behn said of Shappy in an interview. “I think this is
a nice tribute to Iraq veterans and their families.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  