-- Fisher Says Fed Won’t Allow Inflation in Place of Sound U.S. Fiscal Policy
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-02-29T15:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/fisher-says-fed-won-t-allow-inflation-in-place-of-sound-u-s-fiscal-policy.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said the U.S. central bank’s adoption
of a 2 percent inflation target is a notice to lawmakers they
can’t count on higher inflation to replace sound policies.  The target is “an important signal to our fiscal
authorities that they cannot expect inflation to absolve them of
their duty -- the need to institute fiscal and regulatory
reforms necessary to restore sustainable employment growth,”
Fisher said in the text of remarks he’s giving in Mexico City
today.  Fisher has called on Congress to tackle expanding deficits
that he says prevent consumers and businesses from planning for
the long run. The U.S. public debt burden will rise to 103.6
percent of gross domestic product this year, the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development estimates.  “Mexico is actually doing better than the  United States  in
many macroeconomic areas,” Fisher said at the Mexican Stock
Exchange today. “This is a fact: Your government has
implemented greater fiscal discipline than mine and has done so
in a way that has not hampered economic recovery.”  “American politicians and policy makers have proven
incapable of fiscal reform,” Fisher said.  The Dallas Fed chief, who doesn’t vote on the policy-
setting  Federal Open Market Committee  this year, has been among
the most vocal opponents of Fed easing, saying monetary
accommodation can do little to generate the jobs needed to spur
the U.S. rebound. Last year, he dissented twice against a move
to push down long-term rates and a pledge to keep the benchmark
borrowing cost near zero until at least mid-2013. He voted five
times in 2008 in favor of tighter policy.  Mexican Reforms  Fisher, who grew up in  Mexico  City in the 1950s and speaks
Spanish, used the bulk of his speech to praise reforms Mexico
has made in recent decades to bolster growth and ensure economic
stability. He singled out Mexico’s adoption of an explicit
inflation target. He didn’t comment on the current U.S. economic
outlook or monetary policy in his speech.  “As experience and credibility are gathered in the
exercise of inflation rate targeting, a central bank can
influence inflation expectations,” Fisher said. “The  Banco de
Mexico  appears to have done this successfully. The inflation
target has been ratcheted downward: It was 6.5 percent in 2001;
now it is 3 percent.”  Fisher, 62, has been president of the Dallas Fed since
2005. His district includes  Texas , northern  Louisiana  and
southern  New Mexico .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  