-- Food Safety Official’s Past Work for Monsanto Spurs Petition for Ouster
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-02-29T14:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/food-safety-official-s-ties-to-monsanto-spur-petition-for-ouster.html
A top U.S. regulator’s ties to
 Monsanto Co. (MON) , a maker of genetically modified food, are fueling
an election-year recall push by consumer and public-interest
groups flexing their clout on the Internet.  Michael Taylor , the  Food and Drug Administration ’s deputy
commissioner for food safety, is at the center of a burgeoning
dispute between opponents who have amassed more than 420,000
signatures on an online petition demanding he be fired and
supporters who praise his efforts to curb foodborne illnesses.  At issue are the 16 months ending in 2000 that Taylor
worked as St. Louis-based Monsanto’s vice president for public
policy, between stints in the Clinton and Obama administrations.
The petition reflects anger over the agency’s enforcement
actions against small food producers and products such as raw
milk and may prove embarrassing to a White House eager to
distance itself from corporate interests, said  Marion Nestle , a
New York University professor.  Taylor is “a flashpoint for a lot of distrust about
federal regulation,” said Nestle, a professor of nutrition at
the Manhattan-based school. “The FDA is perceived as going
after small farmers and leaving the larger ones alone. The White
House doesn’t want the FDA making an issue that will cause
trouble during an election year.”  Taylor’s broad expertise, including his experience in
industry, benefits the agency, Siobhan Delancey, an FDA
spokeswoman, wrote in an e-mail. Before Taylor worked at
Monsanto, he served in the administration of then President  Bill
Clinton  as the FDA’s deputy commissioner for policy from 1991 to
1994.  Transparency Goal  During his time at Monsanto, Taylor worked to improve
transparency, leaving when “it became clear that the company’s
management was not unified in its commitment to making such a
change,” Delancey said in the e-mail.  Monsanto  produces  a wide range of seeds and biotechnology
products with traits that help farmers control pests, and are
sold to other agricultural producers. The  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  is primarily responsible for regulating genetically
modified crops and consults with the FDA on whether the products
are substantially equivalent to what exists in nature.  The online petition, along with others circulated on
Facebook and other social-media sites since at least August,
blames Taylor for allowing genetically modified organisms into
the U.S. food supply without requiring testing as to their
effects while he served at the agency in the 1990s.  Taylor’s “legacy of supporting Monsanto to have free rein
in U.S. food policy is a nightmare scenario,” the petition
states.  Work Misrepresented  Food from genetically-modified crops is as safe as
conventional food, according to Monsanto’s website.  “Hundreds of millions of meals containing food from GM
crops have been consumed,” according to the website. “There
has not been a single substantiated instance of illness or harm
associated with GM crops.”  Taylor , in an interview, said his work is misrepresented,
and the effort to have him fired “is more about Monsanto than
about me. The claim is I was a Monsanto lobbyist, which paints a
bad picture,” he said. “It doesn’t say what I did there or
what I think about biotechnology.”  Taylor said he focused on outreach to biotech stakeholders
and improving transparency about the company’s work.  Spokesmen for Monsanto declined to speak specifically about
Taylor’s role, instead pointing to a company statement
Monsanto’s website that rejects the idea of collusion among
regulators and the industry.  Recused Himself  “The public and private sectors benefit when employers
have access to the most competent and experienced people,”
Monsanto says on its  website . Accusations of the “revolving
door” leading to beneficial treatment “ignore the simple truth
that people regularly change jobs to find positions that match
their experience, skills and interests.”  Taylor didn’t lobby for the company, the FDA’s Delancey
said. In his current post since January 2010, he’s also recused
himself from involvement in issues related to animal and plant
biotechnology that may create an appearance of conflict, she
said.  Taylor has garnered praise from  food-safety  advocates for
efforts to curb foodborne illnesses. Supporters circulated a
letter in February calling the attacks “a factually untrue
Internet smear campaign.”  He’s been a proactive regulator, strengthening restrictions
on strains of E. coli in meat instead of just reacting to
outbreaks, according to the letter signed by members of the
Washington-based Center for Science in the Public Interest, a
consumer advocacy group, and others such as  Bill Marler , a
Seattle-based food safety lawyer.  Policy Chief  “If we want to complain about policy at FDA, take it up
with his boss who’s up for election,” Marler said in an
interview, referring to President  Barack Obama . “In my
dealings,  Mike Taylor ’s open and accessible.”  The petition is “terribly irresponsible,” said  Michael Jacobson , the center’s executive director. “It’s an attack on
government in general. They’re using Mike Taylor as a straw man
to attack genetically modified foods. They picked the wrong
straw man.”  Genetically modified food has been grown for more than 15
years and has been extensively tested by third parties, Lee Quarles, a Monsanto spokesman, said in an interview.  “The benefits of biotech are well established, as are the
safety records of these products,” he said, adding that it’s
one tool to help feed the growing world population.  Food Labeling  Nestle said the FDA sided with agriculture and biotech
interests by not requiring genetically modified food to be
labeled as such in the 1990s. A petition calling on the FDA to
require producers to label the products -- known as the  Just
Label It  campaign -- has garnered about 850,000 responses with a
goal of 1 million within months.  Taylor has addressed labeling genetically modified products
in the past. The European Union has embraced labeling as a way
to allow consumers to identify such items, he noted in a 2003
article in  Nature Biotechnology .  “By adopting a choice-based agenda, the U.S. can remake
its leadership on biotechnology,” Taylor wrote, adding that
agriculture and biotech companies that oppose choice by
aggressively marketing the technology are “on the wrong side.”  “As with any new food technology, to be accepted,
consumers feel the need to have a choice,” Taylor said, adding
that any personal opinion is irrelevant since he recuses himself
from decisions on genetically modified food.  Implementing Safety Law  Taylor said he is focused on implementation of the  Food
Modernization Safety Act , which Obama signed last year and marks
the most sweeping reform to food safety laws in more than 70
years. Proposals are expected shortly that will set minimum
standards for the safe production and harvest of fruits and
vegetables. A proposal that designates high-risk foods subject
to more requirements is also pending.  Nestle said Taylor’s future may hinge on whether Obama’s
FDA is seen as beholden to corporate interests.  “It depends on how big and noisy this gets,” she said.
“The question is, will it cause trouble for Obama? If it does,
he’s gone. If not, he’ll stay. He comes with a lot of baggage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  