-- Ford Retiring Finance Chief Booth Says Loss in Europe May Hit $600 Million
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-02-29T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/ford-retiring-cfo-booth-says-loss-in-europe-may-top-500-million.html
Lewis Booth , retiring April 1 as
 Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s chief financial officer, said the automaker may
lose $500 million to $600 million this year in  Europe  where the
financial crisis is exacerbating industrywide overcapacity.  Ford’s pretax loss in Europe in the first quarter may
exceed the $190 million the company lost there in the final
three months of 2011, Booth told reporters yesterday in an exit
interview at Ford’s Dearborn, Michigan, headquarters. Ford still
expects companywide 2012 pretax operating  profit  to equal last
year’s $8.8 billion, Booth said.  “We’re going to have a tougher time in Europe than perhaps
we anticipated at the beginning of the year,” Booth said. “We
think Europe’s much more likely now to be at the bottom end of
the scale we talked about, in the range of 14 million” auto
sales.  Ford in January forecast industrywide sales of 14 million
to 15 million cars and trucks in Europe’s 19 primary countries.
A lack of  consumer confidence  and a stubborn sovereign debt
crisis is pushing the annual selling rate below 14 million this
month, Booth said.  “We’ll continue to work on actions to improve
profitability in Europe because we don’t want to continue to
lose money,” Booth said. Ford will reduce the rate of European
losses with new models coming this year and by “continuing to
work on our cost base,” he said.  Good profit in  North America  should offset the European
losses and provide “decent” results for years to come, Booth
said. While noting that Ford’s “fundamentals” may warrant a
return to an investment-grade  credit rating , Booth said the
automaker may not reach that threshold this year.  Europe ‘More Serious’  “We were hoping that when we achieved the competitive
settlement we did with the UAW that all the worries that the
 ratings agencies  had would be lifted, but around that time the
sovereign debt crisis in Europe became much more serious,”
Booth said of the four-year contract the automaker reached with
the  United Auto Workers  in October. “We just have to be patient
and do what we’re doing, continue to deliver good, strong
results.”  Booth, 63, became Ford’s finance chief in November 2008, as
the automaker was completing a year in which it lost a record
$14.8 billion and its share price fell as low as $1.26. The
shrinking market in Europe will force automakers to finally cut
factory capacity there, said Booth, who ran Ford’s European
operations before taking the finance role.  “The European overcapacity is well understood,” Booth
said. “We have to see some actions in Europe to reduce
capacity.”  Booth’s Record  The executive in 2009 engineered Ford’s largest debt
restructuring, led the sale of its  Volvo  luxury line to  China ’s
Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co. in 2010 and spearheaded
restoration of Ford’s dividend after a 5-year-suspension. The
automaker’s shares closed yesterday at $12.38, it made $20.2
billion last year, boosted by a one-time gain of $12.4 billion,
and it’s within one level of an investment-grade  credit rating .  Before becoming CFO, Booth spent 12 years running Ford’s
regional carmaking operations, first in  South Africa , then in
 Asia  and finally in Europe. He engineered a turnaround at
Hiroshima, Japan-based  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , at the time controlled
by Ford, and overhauled the U.S. company’s European car lineup.
The son of a Liverpool,  England , car dealer, he likes to drive a
Transit Connect delivery van with racing stripes.  “He literally knows how the entire Ford world works more
than any executive we have in the company,” Executive Chairman
 Bill Ford  said in a 2009 interview.  Ford, which has enjoyed a “fruitful” diesel-engine
alliance with PSA Peugeot Citroen, is studying the alliance that
the Paris-based automaker announced yesterday with  General
Motors Co. (GM)  Detroit-based GM is buying a 7 percent stake in
Peugeot, and the two companies will cooperate on purchasing and
product development, ultimately generating $2 billion in annual
savings, the companies said.  “Just putting two companies together doesn’t solve a
capacity issue,” Booth said. “So something is going to have to
happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Dearborn, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  