-- Forint Gains Most in Two Weeks, Hungary Bonds Rally on ECB Loan
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-02-29T15:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/forint-gains-most-in-week-hungarian-bonds-rally-on-ecb-lending.html
The forint strengthened the most in
two weeks and Hungarian  government bonds  rallied as a record
three-year lending operation to euro-area banks by the  European
Central Bank  boosted appetite for higher-yielding assets.  The currency of Hungary, the European Union’s most indebted
eastern member, appreciated 1 percent to 288.1 per euro by 4:35
p.m. in Budapest, the biggest advance on a closing basis since
Feb. 13. A second day of gains in the government’s benchmark
five-year bonds cut yields 25 basis points to 8.425 percent.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said today it will lend 800
financial institutions 529.5 billion euros ($712.2 billion) for
1,092 days, a bigger allotment than economists estimated in a
Bloomberg News survey. Hungary’s central bank yesterday kept its
two-week deposit rate at 7 percent, the highest benchmark rate
in the EU.  “With the EU’s highest base rate, investors tend to favor
the forint when there is a risk-on mode,” Peter Karsai, a
trader at Commerzbank AG in Budapest, wrote in an e-mailed
response to questions from Bloomberg after the ECB announcement.  The forint has rallied 11 percent, the biggest gains
worldwide, since Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said on Jan. 5 he
was ready to discuss conditions needed for a “quick” bailout
from the  International Monetary Fund  and the EU.  The government still hasn’t resolved disputes with the
international lenders over the independence of the central bank
and other institutions, more than three months after requesting
IMF aid.  ‘Very Downbeat’  “The news flow on the European Commission/IMF front is
very downbeat,” Timothy Ash, a London-based economist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc, wrote in an e-mailed note today,
adding that the forint rallied on optimism that the ECB funding
is “ultimately finding its way into  emerging markets .”  The EU and the IMF still need to clarify what  Hungary  needs
to do to start aid talks, Mihaly Varga, Prime Minister Viktor
Orban’s chief of staff, told Inforadio in an interview late
yesterday.  “The ‘pre-negotiation’ phase seems to be going nowhere
fast,” Ash wrote.  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps fell to 508 basis points from 512 basis
points yesterday, according to data provider CMA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  