-- Fracking Rules to Include Safety Certification, Salazar Says
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-02-29T17:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/fracking-rules-to-include-safety-certification-salazar-says.html
The Obama administration will
require energy companies to certify that they are not
endangering local water supplies when using hydraulic fracturing
to extract natural gas and oil, the Interior Department said.  Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  told a congressional hearing
today that his agency is working on additional regulations that
will lower the risk of water supplies being tainted during
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking. The drilling technique
involves injecting millions of gallons of water, chemicals and
sand into subterranean rock formations to free energy resources.  The industry certificates will strengthen the oversight of
the Bureau of Land Management, which is sending inspectors to
drilling sites to ensure proper well design and waste-water
management,  David Hayes , Salazar’s deputy, told a subcommittee
of the Senate Appropriations panel in Washington.  “We are prioritizing inspections to deal with potential
high-risk issues,” Hayes said. “That includes ensuring that
the well construction is done with the appropriate integrity.”
The proposed rule “will require an additional certification by
the operators to ensure that they are using the appropriate
cementing,” he said.  As natural-gas production in states including  Texas , Ohio,
Pennsylvania and Wyoming gets closer to homes and farms,
residents are calling for more stringent state and federal
regulation to protect their air and water.  “When people ask where they can live that they will be
safe -- you’ve got to find a place where there isn’t any shale
underneath,” Susie Beiersdorfer, a geologist, said during a
Feb. 27 protest against fracking in Steubenville, Ohio.  Oklahoma City-based  Chesapeake Energy Corp., (CHK)  the second-
largest U.S. natural-gas producer, and  Hess Corp. (HES)  of New York
are seeking well permits in Ohio. Some homeowners and businesses
in the state are demanding a ban until fracking is better
researched and regulated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  