-- Freeport Says 32 Shootings Eroding Grasberg Copper, Gold Output
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-02-29T04:31:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/freeport-says-32-shootings-eroding-grasberg-copper-gold-output.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) 
said 32 shooting incidents in almost as many months have
hampered operations at its Indonesian mine, which holds the
world’s largest recoverable copper deposit.  Fifteen people were killed and 56 injured in the shootings
since July 2009 at Grasberg and along the road leading to
Freeport’s mining and milling operations in the district, the
Phoenix-based company said today in a statement. The victims
included Freeport employees, contractors, members of  law
enforcement  and civilians, it said.  Grasberg is located in Papua province where separatist
groups have sought political independence for years, often
resorting to violence. Freeport halted production and shipments
from Grasberg this month after violence flared up among
employees in the aftermath of a strike last year over pay
increases.  “The identity of the perpetrators is unknown as is the
motivation for the shootings,” Freeport said in the statement.
“We have taken precautionary measures, including using secured
convoys on the road. The Indonesian government has responded
with additional security forces.”  Freeport’s copper production fell 18 percent to 823 million
pounds in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, the company
said on Jan. 12. Gold output plunged 71 percent to 181,000
ounces.  Freeport will be “reviewing its numbers” for Grasberg for
the first quarter and the full year, Chief Financial Officer
Kathleen L. Quirk said this week in a presentation at BMO
Capital Markets’ Global Metals & Mining Conference in Hollywood,
 Florida .  “Prolonged limitations on access to the road could
adversely affect operations at the mine,” Freeport said. “The
safety of our workforce is a critical concern, and PT Freeport
 Indonesia  is working cooperatively with the government of
Indonesia to address security issues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  