-- French Candidate Hollande Tells London He’s Not Dangerous
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2012-02-29T16:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/french-frontrunner-hollande-takes-presidential-race-to-london-expatriates.html
Francois Hollande , the Socialist
candidate in France’s presidential election who called finance
his “greatest adversary,” tried to calm market concerns about
him, saying in  London  that he should not be feared.  “I’m not dangerous,” Hollande said in English, in
response to a reporter’s query about his stance on the finance
industry as he arrived at the city’s  St. Pancras  station.  Hollande kicked off his campaign last month with a speech
criticizing “the power of money,” pledging to ban French banks
from operating offshore and cap executive pay. Opinion polls
show the 57-year-old may become the first Socialist president
since  Francois Mitterrand , whose second term ended in 1995.
Hollande would beat President  Nicolas Sarkozy  by 58 percent to
42 percent in the decisive second round of the ballot on May 6,
according to an Ipsos poll published yesterday.  The Socialist contender has attempted to tone down his
anti-markets pronouncements and in his one-day London visit is
meeting French expatriates, many of whom work in the City. His
efforts to appease his left-leaning base while reaching out to
centrist and right-leaning voters have drawn fire from Sarkozy.  “He pretends to be Thatcher in London and Mitterrand in
France,” Sarkozy said in a speech in Marseille on Feb. 19.
“Where is the truth?”  The U.K. has the biggest French overseas community, with
more than  250,000 French citizens , making it a key location to
rally voters. Sarkozy went to London in his 2007 campaign as he
sought to mobilize the group of high-earning, young expats.  New Finance  Arriving in London today, Hollande, whose campaign slogan 
is “Change is Now,” said he was there to “convince French
people, not English people.” He was welcomed by a group of
about 30 supporters, one carrying a bunch of red roses for him.  “I wanted to come to London to say that the finance
industry is at the service of the economy to create wealth and
not to enrich itself,” he said at a joint press conference with
Labour leader  Ed Miliband  at the House of Commons today.  Hollande has promised to renegotiate  Europe ’s latest fiscal
treaty, already ratified by a majority of countries, saying it
puts undue emphasis on austerity and says little about the need
for growth measures.  “What Francois has been talking about, the way we need to
reform, the way we need to reform the financial work, the
capital work is absolutely right,” Miliband said today. “I’ve
been very, very encouraged by the leadership he is showing.”  ‘Moderate Socialist’  In recent weeks, Hollande has sought to calm investor
concern about his possible victory, pointing out that it was his
party that “liberalized the economy and opened up the markets
to finance and privatizations,” citing the period when Lionel Jospin was  France ’s prime minister between 1997 and 2002.  The Socialist leader said “there is no big fear,” adding
that the period that saw President Mitterrand nationalizing
banks and pumping billions into public works was over. The
“1980s was a different era,” he said.  “Hollande is perceived as a moderate socialist,”  David
Dubois , a professor at the Paris business school HEC, said in an
interview. “His declarations tend to show that he wants to be
in accord with liberal principles, distancing himself from his
socialist origins. While there could still be apprehension in
the U.K., because of the word ‘socialist,’ Hollande will seek to
show he is pragmatic and reasonable.”  Taxing Plans  Hollande is promising to balance the budget by 2017. He has
pledged that there’ll be no increase in the public payroll on
his watch. He has said he wants to increase levies on the rich
and end tax breaks for big business. He’s also seeking tax cuts
for small and mid-sized companies.  The Socialist candidate’s plans to curb the excesses of the
banking industry include taxing financial transactions --
something Sarkozy has also proposed -- and forcing lenders to
separate their investment-banking and retail businesses.  His latest proposal to tax the rich has come under fire.
Top earners should pay 75 percent of their income above 1
million euros ($1.34 million) a year in taxes, he said Feb. 27.
That’s on top of his proposal to raise the  tax rate  for people
making 150,000 euros or more to 45 percent from 40 percent.  The most recent tax measure, that Hollande called “a
matter of patriotism,” had sparked a debate in France with
Sarkozy’s ruling Union for a Popular Movement Party and centrist
parties saying it will lead to capital flight.  Poll Lead  Miliband today said that while he shares Hollande’s notion
of a “fairer society,” he does not favor an income tax rate
higher than 50 percent.  With less than two months before the first round of the
elections, Sarkozy lags behind Hollande by 4.5 points in voting
intentions, narrowing the gap since he declared his bid on Feb.
14. The Ipsos survey shows Sarkozy picking up support,
particularly in the first leg of the two-round contest, while
still trailing the leading candidate for the second ballot. The
first round of the vote will be held on April 22.  Hollande, for whom the London trip is the latest stop in a
European tour to reach out to left-wing allies, is not scheduled
to meet with Prime Minister  David Cameron . Since he won the
Socialist nomination, he has visited Berlin,  Rome  and  Madrid . He
may also visit  Denmark .  Hollande, who has never held a government position, was the
Socialist Party’s leader from 1997 to 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in London via 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in London via 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  