-- Futures Industry Proposes Initial Fixes After MF Global Collapse
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-02-29T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/futures-industry-proposes-initial-fixes-after-mf-global-collapse.html
The futures industry is recommending
more rigorous reporting and internal controls for brokerages as
$1.6 billion of customer money is still unaccounted for after
the bankruptcy of MF Global Holdings Ltd.  Brokerages should be required to submit daily reports of
how much customer money must be held separate from the firm’s
own money to their self-designated regulator, often a
clearinghouse the firm uses, the Futures Industry Association
said in a  statement  today. The group, which represents the
banks, brokerages and asset managers active in the exchange-
traded  derivatives market , also recommended that  firms file
twice-monthly accounts of how customer money is being invested.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and bankruptcy
trustees are among investigators probing the events surrounding
the Oct. 31 collapse of MF Global. The loss of customer money at
a bankrupt brokerage is a first in the futures industry,
according to  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest derivatives
exchange and self-regulatory auditor of MF Global.  The CFTC will hold two days of meetings in  Washington 
starting today to discuss additional ways to protect customer
accounts. The event is an early step toward more rules and
regulations that would require an official CFTC proposal and
vote by the agency’s five commissioners. The FIA group, formed
last month, is determining the best ways to maintain internal
controls over customer accounts at futures brokerages and will
present its final report at its annual conference in  Boca Raton ,
Florida next month.  Futures brokers tally their customer segregated funds daily
now, but are not mandated to share that with their self-
regulator or the CFTC. The reports to self-regulators would be
shared with the CFTC because it has access to the electronic
reporting system the FIA is recommending, the group said.  The FIA also proposed that the CFTC pass a rule mandating
futures brokers to certify annually that “no material
weaknesses in its internal controls” regarding the protection
of customer money have occurred.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 