-- Game-Changing Camera Focuses After the Fact: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-02-29T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/game-changer-lytro-camera-focuses-after-the-fact-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
It’s the photographer’s nightmare.
You’ve taken the perfect photo of your daughter holding a ball.
But you focused on the wrong thing. The ball is sharp, the girl
blurry.  Now imagine being able to refocus the entire photo -- after
the fact.  That’s the awesome thing about the  Lytro , the first
consumer camera to employ a technology called light-field
photography that until now was the province of scientific
laboratories.  Launched by a  Mountain View ,  California , start-up to
capitalize on  research  conducted at  Stanford University , the
Lytro introduces the concept of a living photo that can be
adjusted on the fly by photographer and viewer alike.  Unlike a traditional digital camera, which depends on light
directly hitting a sensor, the Lytro captures all the light in a
scene traveling in any direction -- enough information to allow
the focus to be manipulated in any number of ways. Conventional
camera-makers talk about megapixels, the number of dots of
information that make up an image; Lytro talks in terms of
megarays to describe the amount of light captured. The Lytro
claims a rating of 11 megarays, or 11 million rays.  Keeping It Simple  If the  technology  is unfamiliar and exotic, the Lytro
itself, mercifully, isn’t. For all its sophistication, it’s a
pleasure to use. Not having to focus makes it easier than
traditional point-and-shoot cameras, or even your smartphone.
The Lytro turns on instantly and there’s no shutter lag. My
biggest annoyance was a lens cap that kept popping off.  The camera, which fits easily into a jacket pocket, weighs
less than eight ounces. A little more than four inches long, it
resembles a squared-off spyglass. It’s sold on the Lytro
website, which offers  two models . The 8-gigabyte version ($399)
comes in blue or graphite and can hold about 350 photos. The 16-
gig model ($499) is red and holds about 750 photos.  At one end of the aluminum-clad body is the lens; at the
other is a 1.46-inch square touchscreen viewfinder. You activate
the 8X optical zoom by running your finger back and forth along
the rubberized top of the camera; a quick tap of the screen
adjusts the exposure. The shutter is an indentation atop the
camera, easy to find by touch and hard to hit by accident.  Windows Coming  Just how revolutionary the Lytro is doesn’t really become
apparent until you connect it to your computer with the included
USB cable. As with  Cisco (CSCO) ’s late, lamented Flip videocam, the
desktop software you need is built into the camera and installs
itself automatically. At the moment, it only works with  Apple (AAPL) ’s
Mac operating system; a  Windows (MSFT)  version is on the way.  Your photos are displayed iPhoto-like, but with one big
difference: Clicking anywhere on a picture refocuses it on that
specific point.  A photo I took of  San Francisco  Bay from the landmark Ferry
Building allows me to choose between focusing on a close-in
piece of iron railing or, off in the distance, the Bay Bridge or
Yerba Buena Island.  A shot of Rodin’s “Burghers of Calais” on the Stanford
campus lets me change which of the burghers I want to emphasize.
In a close-up of a flower at a Palo Alto farmer’s market, I can
sharpen the focus on the pistil, or emphasize an individual
petal.  Viewer’s Choice  Don’t like my choices? If I post my photos to the Lytro
website and share a link, anyone viewing them can make his  own
decision  about what to sharpen and what to blur.  At the outset, at least, the website and Facebook will be
the only ways to directly share Lytro’s living pictures -- a
downside if you use some other site, like  Yahoo (YHOO) ’s Flickr or
 Google (GOOG) ’s Picasa, for your online storage and sharing. Lytro’s
software does make it easy to tweet a picture in Twitter or +1
it in Google Plus, but in each case it’s just a link back to the
version on Lytro.com  You’ll also find some things missing from the Lytro -- a
flash, for example, and the ability to shoot video. But it does
offer a “creative mode” that gives the photographer more
control over a shot’s refocus range, and the company says other
capabilities are in the works, including three-dimensional
images, light-field editing tools and the ability to make an
entire photo in focus.  Introducing consumers to a completely new technology is
inherently tricky, but Lytro has done an impressive job of
keeping things simple. You don’t have to forget everything you
know about point-and-shoot cameras to use it -- just the part
where you worry about ruining a shot because it’s out of focus.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 