-- Heating Oil Futures Decline on Bernanke Remarks, Demand Concern
-- B y   B a r b a r a   J .   P o w e l l
-- 2012-02-29T21:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/gasoline-futures-rise-as-u-s-economy-grows-inventories-decline.html
Heating oil fell as remarks by
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  gave no signal that the
U.S. central bank would provide more monetary stimulus and on
concern that fuel demand won’t improve.  Prices slipped a third day as Bernanke, noting lower
unemployment while oil prices rise, said “it will be especially
important to evaluate incoming information to assess the
underlying pace of economic recovery.” Total fuel demand over
the past four weeks was 6.2 percent below a year earlier,
according to Energy Department data.  “Demand is still pretty weak even with the stock draws
last week in both gasoline and diesel,” said  Sander Cohan , a
global transportation fuels analyst and principal with Energy
Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,  Massachusetts . “Crude oil
remains high and high prices are going to swamp any demand
growth.”  March-delivery heating oil fell 3.58 cents, or 1.1 percent,
to settle at $3.188 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices rose 4.1 percent this month and have advanced
8.6 percent this year.  March gasoline and heating oil futures expired today.
April-delivery heating oil fell 1.42 cents to $3.2059 a gallon.  While describing “positive developments” in the labor
market, Bernanke said “the job market remains far from normal”
during the first day of his semi-annual monetary policy report
to Congress. He said a recent rise in gasoline prices “is
likely to push up inflation temporarily while reducing
consumers’ purchasing power.”  Distillate Supplies  Supplies (DOESDIST)  of distillates, including heating oil and diesel,
fell 2.07 million barrels last week to a nine-week low of 141.4
million as refiners cut  production  to the lowest level since
May. Daily  demand  jumped 11 percent from a week earlier, and on
a four-week average was 5.1 percent below last year.  Before Bernanke’s comments, heating oil was up as gross
domestic product climbed at a revised 3 percent annual rate, the
most since the second quarter of 2010, Commerce Department
figures showed today.  “GDP was good, which plays into the U.S. economic recovery
story,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest
in  Chicago .  Gasoline for March delivery rose 0.22 cent to settle at
$3.0423 a gallon on the exchange. Prices gained 5.4 percent this
month and are up 13 percent in 2012.  The April contract gained 3.25 cents to settle at $3.2572 a
gallon.  Gasoline stockpiles  fell 1.6 million barrels, the biggest
drop since Nov. 4, to 229.9 million as output fell 1.4 percent.
 Demand (DOEDMGAS)  slipped 3.1 percent and consumption over the past four
weeks was 6.7 percent below a year earlier.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 1.5
cents to $3.731 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.
Prices, which have increased 45.3 cents this year, were 11
percent higher than a year earlier.  “The rapid run-up in prices is going to continue to dampen
demand on a year-on-year basis,” said  Andy Lipow , president of
Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  