-- Germany Showing Strength as Unemployment Holds at Two-Decade Low: Economy
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-02-29T10:39:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/germany-s-jobless-rate-remains-at-lowest-in-two-decades-1-.html
Germany ’s unemployment held at the
lowest in more than two decades in February, adding to signs
Europe’s largest economy is regaining some strength after
shrinking in the fourth quarter.  The adjusted  jobless rate  held at 6.8 percent from January,
the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency said today. That’s the
lowest since Germany’s reunification. The number of people out
of work remained at 2.87 million after declining 26,000 in the
previous month. Economists forecast a drop of 5,000 this month,
the median of 29 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  showed.  Germany’s economy may help counter a slump in the 17-nation
currency area as governments from Spain to Ireland toughen
spending cuts, hurting hiring and consumer demand. While the
European Commission on Feb. 23 forecast the region’s economy to
shrink this year, German executives grew more optimistic this
month and investor sentiment rebounded.  “Germans hardly feel affected by the euro-zone debt crisis
-- the crisis has simply not reached the German labor market,”
said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at  ING Group (ILF)  in Brussels.
“Looking ahead, all available indicators still point to a
further improvement of the German labor market” though “the
job miracle should gradually come to an end.”  The euro traded at $1.3448 at 11:35 a.m. in Frankfurt,
little changed on the day. Germany’s benchmark DAX Index rose
for a second day, gaining 0.9 percent, while the Euro Stoxx 600
Index advanced 0.7 percent.  German Sentiment  The economy is already showing some signs of recovery after
shrinking 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter. German business
confidence rose to the highest in seven months in February while
investor sentiment surged to a 10-month high.  Consumer
confidence  will increase to a 12-month high in March, partly
helped by falling unemployment,  GfK SE (GFK)  said yesterday.  Labor agency head Frank-Juergen Weise told reporters today
that while there are risks that unemployment may exceed 3
million this year, the adjusted numbers for February
“definitely don’t mark the turning point.”  “We’d need three months of rising unemployment and other
negative indicators,” he said. “The situation is robust. What
we saw this month was the impact of winter weather.”  Japan, China  Strengthening economies in  Asia  may help bolster export
demand and encourage German hiring. In  Japan , industrial output
rose 2 percent in January from the previous month, the Trade
Ministry in  Tokyo  said today. Economists in a Bloomberg survey
forecast a gain of 1.5 percent. South Korean production climbed
3.3 percent, a separate report showed.  A Chinese manufacturing index for February, due to be
released tomorrow, will show a third straight expansion, a
separate survey of analysts indicates. Australia’s retail sales
advanced in January for the first time in three months and
India’s gross domestic product rose 6.1 percent last quarter
from a year earlier.  In the U.S., a report today may show the world’s biggest
economy expanded at a 2.8 percent annual pace in the fourth
quarter, which would be the fastest in more than a year.  “The U.S. is improving,  Europe  is stabilizing, and Asia is
chugging along at a healthy pace,” said Matthew Circosta, an
economist at Moody’s Analytics Australia Pty Ltd. in Sydney.
“ China  is likely to have a soft landing.”  Job Growth  German companies may create as many as 250,000 new jobs
this year, including 80,000 in health and social services,
50,000 in information technology and 40,000 in engineering
branches, the DIHK national industry and trade chambers said on
Feb. 17, citing a  survey .  German unemployment dropped every month but two since July
2009 in adjusted terms. By contrast, euro-area unemployment
probably held at 10.4 percent in January, the highest in more
than a decade, according to a Bloomberg survey. The European
Union’s statistics office will release the report tomorrow.  “The fact that the pace of employment growth is moderating
is to be expected,” said  Simon Smith , chief economist at FXPro
Group Ltd. in  London . “That said, the gap between Germany and
the rest of the  euro zone  remains very wide.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  