-- Gevo Rises as Production Plans Spur ‘Relief Rally,’ Analyst Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-02-29T21:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/gevo-rises-as-production-plans-spur-relief-rally-analyst-says.html
Gevo Inc. (GEVO) , the U.S. biotechnology
company  backed  by oil refiner  Total SA (FP)  and specialty chemicals
maker  Lanxess AG (LXS) , rose the most in two weeks after saying it
expects to begin shipments in July, on schedule, from a plant
it’s completing in Minnesota.  Gevo, based in Englewood,  Colorado , climbed 12 percent to
$10.01 at the close in  New York , the most since Feb. 13.  The surge is “a classic relief rally” as investors’
concerns have been quells that Gevo isn’t facing expansion
issues similar to those that have beset rival  Amyris Inc. (AMRS) ,  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc., said
today by e-mail.  “The Amyris blowup raised questions about the entire
space, and the fact that the other companies aren’t reporting
the same problems indicates that this was more of an Amyris-
specific issue,” Molchanov said.  Amyris fell to a record low yesterday as its fourth-quarter
loss surpassed analysts’ estimates and the company reiterated
plans to delay expanding a plant in  Spain  to fine-tune volume
production at its three existing facilities. The Emeryville,
California-based company converts plant sugars into farnesene,
which can be processed into specialty chemicals and fuels.  Shares of Solazyme Inc., a developer of specialty chemicals
and fuels from algae oil, rose 9.5 percent Feb. 22, a day after
saying it was on track to expand its commercial production
capacity this year.  Retrofitting Plants  Gevo is retrofitting two corn-based ethanol plants in
Minnesota and  South Dakota  to produce isobutanol, a four-carbon
alcohol that can be used to make plastics, fibers, rubber,
paints, jet fuel, and other products typically derived from
petroleum.  Pat Gruber, Gevo’s chief executive officer, said on a
conference call yesterday that the company expects to complete
the  Minnesota  plant and begin deliveries in July to Sasol
Chemical Industries Ltd., which will use the isobutanol to make
paint, ink, coatings, and other products. Sasol will buy the
majority of production from Gevo’s first two plants, which will
have a combined capacity of 56 million gallons a year.  Another potential customer may buy as much as 70 percent of
the Gevo’s expected 350 million gallons of production in 2015,
Gruber said.  That deal would equate to three 100 million gallon plants,
according to Mike Ritzenthaler, an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos.  ‘Positive Sign’  “Provided they can raise the capital needed to implement their
technology, this is a very positive sign that they can hit their
goals,” Ritzenthaler said by e-mail.  Gevo would expand capacity by buying other facilities or
entering into joint ventures with ethanol producers, and it
expects to raise $75 million this year to fund expansion, Gruber
said.  “Even going back to the IPO, we told everybody that we
need about $75 million,” Gruber said.  “That hasn’t changed,” he said. “We’re going to do the
thing that causes the least amount of dilution and gets the job
done effectively.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  