-- Glencore Likely to Raise Bid to Win Xstrata Holders, HSBC Says
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-02-29T12:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/glencore-likely-to-raise-its-bid-to-win-xstrata-holders-hsbc-analysts-say.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , seeking
to buy  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  for 24 billion pounds ($38.2 billion), is
likely to raise its agreed all-share offer in April by as much
as 18 percent, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  The Swiss commodities trader could boost its offer from the
current ratio of 2.8 of its shares for each Xstrata share to as
much as 3.3 shares, London-based HSBC analysts  Andrew Keen ,
Lourina Pretorius and Thorsten Zimmermann wrote in a report
today. With the current offer, Xstrata holders get 44 percent of
the combined company though contribute 48 percent of pro-forma
net income in 2011, HSBC said.  Standard Life Plc and Schroders Plc, two of Xstrata’s
largest shareholders, say they will oppose the deal unless
Glencore boosts its friendly all-stock offer. Glencore’s offer,
announced Feb. 7, represents a deal premium of about 8 percent,
which is described by HSBC as “pretty slim.”  After talks with Xstrata investors “our impression is
that, right or wrong, they see the potential risks of lower
transparency and a lack of track record by Glencore as
outweighing the synergies for the merged entity,” HSBC said.
“Glencore wants this deal more than the recalcitrant end of
Xstrata’s register, and some form of a sweetener is likely to
ensure the 75 percent voting threshold is reached.”  Fidelity Worldwide Investment, which owns at least 1.5
percent of Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata, said Feb. 10 that
while it supports the bid “in principle,” the terms of the
deal “need to be revisited.”  Simon Buerk , a spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore, declined to comment. Alison Flynn, a spokeswoman for
Xstrata, couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Final Decision  Investors holding 16.48 percent of Xstrata can succeed in
voting to block the deal. That’s because Glencore won’t be
allowed to vote its 34 percent stake in Xstrata, according to
the U.K.’s takeover code, putting the final decision into the
hands of the shareholders who control the rest of the company.  BlackRock Inc. is the largest holder of Xstrata after
Glencore with a 6 percent stake. It has yet to declare a view on
the bid. A BlackRock spokeswoman declined to comment.  Glencore, the world’s largest publicly traded commodity
supplier, wants to combine with Xstrata, giving it more coal and
copper mines to create a business with $209 billion in sales,
the companies said Feb. 7. The takeover would be the biggest-
ever mining deal if completed and form a commodities supplier to
challenge BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group.  The 8 percent premium is calculated based on Glencore’s
average price in the 20 days before the deal was first reported
Feb. 2. That would be the second-lowest premium for any mining
deal worth more than $5 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Any revision of the offer may be in the range of 3 to 3.3
shares for each Glencore share, HSBC said. The offer may be
formally presented to investors in April followed by a vote in
May, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  