-- Iran Oil Loss Would Worsen Global Fuel Shortage, U.S. Says
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-03-01T11:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/global-fuel-demand-outside-iran-outstrips-supply-u-s-says-1-.html
Excluding  Iran  from the global oil
market would increase the shortfall between worldwide supply and
demand sixfold, based on February production and consumption
estimates, the U.S. Energy Department said.  Global fuel use averaged 3 million barrels a day more than
output when Iran is excluded from the calculations and 500,000
more when Iran is included, the department’s Energy Information
Administration said in a report yesterday.  The examination of oil and fuel supplies and prices with
and without Iran was prepared to help guide President Barack Obama’s administration in determining the feasibility of
imposing sanctions related to Iranian oil trades through its
central bank. Yesterday’s report was the first assessment issued
under a Dec. 31 law that requires the EIA to provide an update
on oil market conditions every 60 days.  “The EIA report highlights how tight the global market
is,” Trevor Houser, an energy analyst and partner at Rhodium
Group, a New York-based economic research firm, said in an
interview. “With oil inventories and spare OPEC production
capacity running low, consumers don’t have much buffer against
additional disruptions in supply.”  OPEC spare oil production capacity dropped 33 percent in
the first two months of this year compared with same period in
2011, the report showed. The 12 members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries had an average 2.5 million barrels
a day spare capacity during January and February, down from 3.7
million a year earlier.  Sanctions Determination  A month from now, the president must make a determination
based on the EIA report as to whether there is enough non-
Iranian oil available to impose sanctions related to oil
transactions with the central bank starting on June 28,
according to the law.  The president has the authority to grant exceptions to
countries that have significantly reduced the volume of Iranian
oil purchases, and he may delay the implementation of sanctions
if he determines based on the Energy Department reports that
there is insufficient alternative supply to make up for the loss
of Iranian barrels. The president also may waive sanctions if he
determines it is in the U.S. national interest to do so.  Oil in  New York  surged to $109.77 a barrel in New York on
Feb. 24, the highest settlement since May 3, as tensions
escalated over Iran’s nuclear program. While Iran has said its
atomic program is for civilian purposes, the U.S. and its allies
say the country is trying to develop the capacity to produce
nuclear weapons. Crude rose 8.7 percent to $107.07 a barrel in
February.  Spare Capacity  “While the report shows what we’ve seen at the pump --some
volatility in  oil prices  because of a variety of factors,
including Iranian posturing -- it also shows that there is spare
capacity to offset a decline in the production and sale of
Iranian crude,” Senator Bob Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat who
was a lead sponsor of the sanctions legislation, said in an e-
mail yesterday.  Following a Nov. 8 report by United Nations inspectors that
raised questions about  Iran’s nuclear program , the U.S. and
European Union have added increasingly stringent economic
penalties, including U.S. sanctions on non-petroleum
transactions with the Iranian central bank that take effect
yesterday and an EU embargo on Iranian oil that starts July 1.  An array of restrictions on banking, shipping, insurance,
ports, trade, commodities and energy transactions and ventures
have severed or complicated many of Iran’s commercial ties to
the outside world.  Iranian Production  Iran, the second-biggest oil producer in OPEC, pumped 3.45
million barrels of oil a day last month, the lowest level since
September 2002, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News,
and exported an average 2.58 million barrels a day in 2010,
according to OPEC statistics.  Turkey , which relies on Iran for half of its oil imports,
is seeking to replace Iranian crude with purchases from  Libya ,
the North African producer’s state-run National Oil Corp. said
on its website.  Iranian officials have assured the public they will prevail
in the face of sanctions. Deputy Oil Minister Ahmad Qalebani
said yesterday Iran is exporting about 2 million barrels of
crude a day and has an increasing number of buyers even as
countries impose sanctions, according to the state-run Mehr news
agency.  Iran Sanction  Effective yesterday, the administration must sanction
foreign financial institutions that do business with Iran’s
central bank unrelated to petroleum trade. Food, medicine and
medical devices are exempted.  “The report confirms that the majority of the price
increase in February is due to supply and demand factors, with
Iran sanctions playing a much less significant role,”  Mark Dubowitz , executive director of the Washington-based Foundation
for the Defense of Democracies, said in an interview yesterday.
“With tight oil markets, policy makers need to be careful in
threading the eye of the needle.”  Dubowitz, who advised Menendez and  Mark Kirk , an Illinois
Republican who co-sponsored the legislation, warned that
“policymakers need to ensure that they are not creating an
embargo of Iranian oil but, instead, implementing these
sanctions so that Iranian oil becomes a distressed asset.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  