-- GlobeOp Declines Most in a Month After SS&C Buys Competitor
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C l a r k
-- 2012-02-29T19:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/globeop-declines-most-in-a-month-after-ss-c-buys-competitor-1-.html
GlobeOp Financial Services SA (GO/)  fell
the most in London trading since January after potential
takeover bidder  SS&C Technologies Holdings Inc. (SSNC)  agreed to buy
 Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI) ’s Portia investment-operations business.  GlobeOp, a hedge-fund administrator, declined 1.7 percent
to 458 pence in London trading. The shares dropped as much as
3.5 percent, the most since Jan. 27. GlobeOp had advanced 8.3
percent through yesterday after Fort Worth, Texas-based TPG
Capital LLP agreed on Feb. 1 to buy the company.  SS&C, a Windsor, Connecticut-based developer of software
for financial firms, began conducting due diligence on London-
based GlobeOp in January, the company said in a Feb. 6
statement. SS&C agreed today to buy Portia, which helps
investment managers track and manage portfolios, for $170
million. The transaction is set to be completed in the second
quarter, pending regulatory approval, SS&C said in a statement.  “This deal significantly adds to our offerings in the
portfolio-management  software industry ,” SS&C Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Bill Stone said in the statement. SS&C
rose 1.1 percent to $20.89 at 2:16 p.m. in New York, its highest
since July.  TPG, the private-equity firm run by  David Bonderman , agreed
to acquire GlobeOp for about 508 million pounds ($810 million)
or 435 pence a share, in cash, TPG said in a Feb. 1 statement.
That was 49 percent more than the closing price on Jan. 5.  ISS Recommendation  Institutional Shareholder Services said on Feb. 27 that
shareholders shouldn’t accept the TPG offer because of the
possibility that SS&C would make a competing bid.  “Share buybacks would better enhance  shareholder value  by
boosting the share price and return cash to shareholders at a
low cost for the company,” ISS said.  British regulations governing the takeover process
prevented GlobeOp from discussing its possible acquisition,
Chairman Ed Nicoll said today during a conference call to
discuss the firm’s 2011 earnings. Operating profit increased 27
percent to $55.3 million, the company said.  A phone message seeking comment from SS&C wasn’t returned.
Gavin Davis, a TPG spokesman in  London , declined to comment. A
GlobeOp spokeswoman, who refused to give her name, declined to
comment.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
 Thomson Reuters  in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Clark in New York at 
 pclark48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  