-- GM Will Acquire 7% Stake in Peugeot as Automakers Cooperate on Components
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-02-29T21:31:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/gm-will-acquire-7-stake-in-peugeot-as-automakers-cooperate-on-components.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  and  PSA Peugeot
Citroen (UG)  announced a broad alliance that will include joint
purchasing and vehicle development in an effort to revitalize
their European operations.  GM will buy 7 percent of the French carmaker to become the
second-largest shareholder after the Peugeot family, the
automakers said in a joint statement today. Peugeot will sell
new shares in a 1 billion-euro ($1.34 billion) rights offering.  The partnership also includes a restructuring at both GM
and Peugeot that will result in plant closures and  job cuts , a
person familiar said. The two are still working out the
specifics and won’t disclose them for several weeks or even
months because of political concerns in  France , said the person,
who asked not to be identified discussing private deliberations.
Today’s release did not mention any job cuts or plant closures.  “There are tremendous opportunities and synergies to be
realized in this alliance,” Dan Akerson, GM chief executive
officer, said today on a call with analysts. “We expect
unmatched purchasing power on a global scale and capital
expenditures on future product programs that are much less than
each of us going it alone.”  Peugeot announced plans this month to sell assets and delay
investments as debt more than doubled in the second half to 3.4
billion euros, while Detroit-based GM is looking for ways to
turn around its unprofitable Opel brand. The two are seeking
about $2 billion in cost savings annually within five years,
which will come in part from joint development of new vehicles.  ‘Route Forward’  “All capacity and cost reductions can only be taken
positively,” said Sascha Gommel, a Frankfurt-based Commerzbank
analyst who has a “hold” rating on Peugeot. “The capital
increase is a negative, as it dilutes earnings per share.”  Peugeot CEO Philippe Varin said today’s announcement “maps
out the route forward” for the French automaker.  “This alliance was born over recent months out of a
growing realization of the tremendous potential for very
concrete synergies that exist between our companies,” he told
analysts.  GM slipped 0.5 percent to $26.02 at the close in  New York .
Peugeot fell 33 cents, or 2.1 percent, to 15.05 euros at the
close in Paris.  Cost Savings  The costs savings will be evenly split between the two
companies and will come primarily through the development of
vehicles together, with a focus on small and midsize cars,
multi-purpose vehicles and crossovers, the companies said. They
will also reduce costs through global joint purchasing with
combined volumes of $125 billion in materials annually.  “Just to be clear, this is an alliance, not a merger,”
Akerson said. “And this is designed to enhance actions that we
are already taking. This alliance does not replace our company’s
ongoing, independent effort to return our  European operations  to
sustainable profitability.”  Both automakers know they need to shed jobs and factory
capacity and view the pact as a way to get political support to
do so, the person said. The deal also holds appeal to GM, the
world’s largest carmaker, because it may give GM access to
Peugeot’s PSA bank and another lender to finance vehicle sales
in Europe, the person said.  Analyst Skepticism  Skepticism of the deal’s benefits emerged as soon as word
leaked about the possible alliance last week.  “How does a complex assortment of collaborations between
two rivals that, assuming they can overcome cultural and
organizational biases in both companies that will prevent them
from working together, and take years to see any benefit to
either company solve Opel’s problems in the short term?”
 Maryann Keller , principal of a self-named consulting firm in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said today in an e-mail.  “Opel has decent models in the pipeline and a financially
stable parent, but none of this solves the fundamental issue of
excess capacity and sky-high German labor costs,” Keller said.  Lewis Booth , Ford Motor Co. chief financial officer, said
the GM-Peugeot deal is “an indication people are looking for
different solutions” to the European crisis.  “But just putting two companies together doesn’t solve a
capacity issue,” he said. “So something is going to have to
happen.” Ford will continue its “fruitful” diesel-engine
alliance with Peugeot, Booth said.  Political Influence  Political interference and strong unions have hampered both
companies from shutting factories and laying off workers to rein
in costs. French Labor Minister Xavier Bertrand warned Peugeot
CEO Philippe Varin last week against cutting jobs as a result of
the GM deal. President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who’s running for re-
election this year, summoned Varin on Nov. 17 to ask him to
reconsider plans to cut as many as 6,800 jobs, including
temporary staff employed by partners.  GM and Peugeot said they spoke with their unions about the
deal.  Peugeot, trailing only  Volkswagen AG (VOW3)  in Europe, may use
62 percent of its European capacity this year, compared with
Opel’s 74 percent, said LMC Automotive in Oxford,  England .
Carmakers risk losses when they use less than 90 percent of
capacity, said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center
for Automotive Research at the  University of Duisburg-Essen .  Family Holdings  Peugeot, whose origins date back to the early 19th century
laminated steel- and toolmaker Peugeot-Frères et Jacques
Maillard-Salins, is still controlled by the Peugeot family,
which owns 30 percent of the carmaker and said today it will
participate in the rights offering.  The company’s current chairman, Thierry Peugeot, is the
great-grandson of Eugene, who jointly led the company with his
cousin Armand when it produced its first automobile in 1891.
Thierry is joined on the board by relatives Roland, Robert and
Jean-Philippe Peugeot, and Marie-Helene Roncoroni.  Morgan Stanley advised Peugeot and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
worked with GM. Perella Weinberg Partners LP advised the Peugeot
family. All three firms are based in New York.  “With the strong support of our historical shareholder and
the arrival of a new and prestigious shareholder, the whole
group is mobilized to reap the benefit of this agreement,”
Varin said in the statement.  Peugeot’s 2011 sales in  Europe  plunged 8.8 percent to 1.68
million vehicles, while GM’s dropped 1.9 percent to 1.17
million. The prospects for a turnaround aren’t improving with
auto demand in the region poised to drop for the fifth straight
year in 2012 as the sovereign debt crisis unsettles consumers.  GM, which this month posted a record annual net income of
$9.19 billion for 2011, is planning more cost cuts for its
unprofitable European unit after the last turnaround plan failed
to end losses there. The automaker’s Europe business, including
the Opel brand, lost $747 million last year before taxes and
interest.  “There would be a better response from shareholders if
both companies admitted that they both need to cut costs and
trim down,”  Manoj Ladwa , a senior trader at ETX Capital in
 London , said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at   zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
 Jacqueline Simmons  at   jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Sondag  at +1-212-617-2716 or  jsondag@bloomberg.net . 