-- Goldman Mirrors JPMorgan Mirrors Goldman on Swap Exposure to European Debt
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-02-29T20:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/goldman-mirrors-jpmorgan-mirrors-goldman-on-swap-exposure-to-european-debt.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , two of the largest derivatives dealers, posted
identical gross notional amounts of credit-default swaps bought
and sold on five troubled European nations.  JPMorgan purchased single-name contracts protecting $147.3
billion of debt and sold $142.4 billion related to the so-called
GIIPS nations of  Greece , Ireland,  Italy , Portugal and  Spain , the
bank said in its annual filing today. Goldman Sachs disclosed
the exact same figures in a filing yesterday. In both cases, the
numbers were as of Dec. 31.  Banks, facing regulatory pressure to more thoroughly
explain risks posed by countries at the center of  Europe ’s debt
crisis, are beginning to provide specific gross notional figures
for  credit derivatives . The disclosures show the extent to which
firms have insured debt from those nations, and their efforts to
balance that exposure by buying protection.  “There are a nearly infinite number of possible
coincidences that could occur any day of the year but don’t,”
said Chris Kotowski, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New
York. “Every now and then, they do.”  JPMorgan is the largest U.S. credit-derivative dealer, and
Goldman Sachs is No. 3. The notional amounts represented about 7
percent of Goldman Sachs’ total credit derivatives, and 5
percent of JPMorgan’s total.  Goldman Sachs previously reported only its so-called funded
exposure to the debt of those nations, excluding commitments or
contingent payments such as credit-default swaps. JPMorgan had
provided net figures.  In Agreement  Top risk managers for the two firms sat next to each other
today at a panel discussion organized by a trade group in  New
York . David Weisbrod, vice chairman of risk management at
JPMorgan, and  Craig Broderick , Goldman Sachs’s chief risk
officer, repeatedly agreed with each other’s statements during
the discussion of new challenges in risk management at the
annual convention of the  Global Association of Risk
Professionals . Broderick worked for Chase Manhattan Bank, now
part of JPMorgan, before joining Goldman Sachs, according to the
association’s convention booklet.  JPMorgan said “master netting agreements” reduced the
notional amount of protection purchased to $18.5 billion and the
amount sold to $13.7 billion. The fair value of the contracts
after collateral and netting were $3.9 billion and $2.7 billion,
respectively.  Citigroup, BofA  Goldman Sachs also said that “legally enforceable netting
agreements” would reduce the amount of credit-default swaps
purchased on the five countries to $21.1 billion and the amount
sold to $16.2 billion. Those so-called notional amounts exclude
collateral as well as derivatives from outside those nations
that could mitigate the  risk , according to the filing. Both
banks are based in New York.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said the net notional amount of swaps it
purchased on the GIIPS nations was $16.9 billion, and the net
amount sold was $7.8 billion. It didn’t provide gross figures.
 Bank of America Corp . also didn’t disclose notional amounts
related to those nations.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the second-largest credit derivative dealer
among U.S. banks, included net notional amounts of credit-
default swaps within its net inventory category, which also
comprised long and short positions in debt and equity securities
tied to the region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  