-- Goldman Sachs Executive Said to Be Focus of U.S. Insider Probe
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-03-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/goldman-executive-in-asia-equity-sales-said-to-be-focus-of-insider-probe.html
A U.S. investigation of possible
insider-trading by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  employees expanded
to include a managing director whose name emerged at the trial
of convicted hedge fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam , a person with
knowledge of the probe said.  David Loeb , who works on Asia equity sales in New York and
focuses on Taiwan, is a subject in the criminal investigation,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the
matter isn’t public. Loeb is the second Goldman Sachs employee
said to be under federal scrutiny. Last month, Henry King, an
analyst covering Taiwan, was identified as under investigation
by the FBI, a person familiar with the case said.  Goldman Sachs said in a Feb. 28 regulatory filing that
“from time to time, the firm and its employees are the subject
of or otherwise involved in regulatory investigations relating
to  insider trading , the potential misuse of material nonpublic
information and the effectiveness of the firm’s insider trading
controls and information barriers.”  The bank said in the filing that it was “fully
cooperating” with any such investigations.  The probe of both men comes as U.S. authorities have
extended the reach of their five-year insider trading probe from
hedge funds, consultants and technology firms in the U.S. to
bank executives in the U.S. and Asia.  ‘Perfect Hedge’  Since 2009, insider-trading and securities fraud charges
have been filed against 64 people in the investigation, called
“ Perfect Hedge .” To date, 59 people have either pleaded guilty
or been convicted at trial. They include Galleon Group LLC co-
founder Rajaratnam, who is serving an 11-year prison term.  The law enforcement effort is being conducted by the FBI in
 New York  and the office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in
Manhattan. Loeb didn’t return calls or e-mails seeking comment
yesterday.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based
Goldman Sachs, declined to comment. Peter Donald, a spokesman
for the Federal Bureau of Investigation in New York, declined to
comment.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for Bharara, said it is
the office’s policy to neither confirm nor deny if Loeb is the
subject of any inquiry.  Two-Hour Lunch  During Rajaratnam’s trial, the fund manager’s defense
lawyers showed jurors a page from the July 2008 calendar of
former Galleon president Richard “Rick” Schutte, showing he
and Rajaratnam had a two-hour lunch with Goldman Sachs President
Gary Cohn and Loeb.  In October, the U.S. charged Rajaratnam’s friend  Rajat Gupta , a former Goldman Sachs and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  director,
with insider trading. The government said he leaked nonpublic
information to Rajaratnam. Gupta, who has denied wrongdoing, is
scheduled for trial in May.  Prosecutors in the case said in a Feb. 3 letter to U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff, who is presiding over Gupta’s case in
Manhattan, that statements from witnesses described a second
“insider” at Goldman Sachs other than Gupta who allegedly
leaked tips to Rajaratnam. They said those tips “did not relate
to Goldman and/or Procter & Gamble.”  ‘Mr. X’  Prosecutors didn’t disclose which stocks the second
unidentified tipper, whom Rakoff called “Mr. X,” had allegedly
disclosed to Rajaratnam.  Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , declined to comment.
Naftalis has argued that he should be permitted to use such
information about other Goldman Sachs leaks in his defense of
Gupta.  As part of a related suit filed by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission against Gupta, Gupta’s lawyers sought to
question Loeb under oath as well as Goldman Sachs Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and other Goldman executives
including Chief Financial Officer David Viniar, Cohn and  John
Bryan .  In November, Rakoff ruled that Blankfein may be questioned
before Gupta’s criminal trial begins. He said depositions of
other Goldman Sachs officers must be conducted after the trial.  The Wall Street Journal reported the probe of Loeb earlier.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  