-- Goldman Sachs Discloses Risk to Credit Derivatives Tied to European Debt
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-02-29T00:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/goldman-sachs-discloses-risk-to-credit-derivatives-tied-to-european-debt.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, disclosed for the first time the
gross value of credit-default swaps the firm purchased and sold
relating to  Greece , Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain.  At the end of 2011, Goldman Sachs had sold $142.4 billion
of single-name swaps, contracts that pay out in the event of a
default, on the five countries, the firm said yesterday in an
annual filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company also had purchased contracts with a gross notional
value of $147.3 billion on the nations’ debt, the filing shows.  Regulators and investors have encouraged Wall Street banks
to improve disclosure of potential losses from the five
countries at the center of  Europe ’s debt crisis. New York-based
Goldman Sachs previously had reported only its so-called funded
exposure to the debt of those nations, excluding commitments or
contingent payments such as credit-default swaps.  Goldman Sachs also said that “legally enforceable netting
agreements” would reduce the amount of credit-default swaps
purchased on the five countries to $21.1 billion and the amount
sold to $16.2 billion. Those so-called notional amounts exclude
collateral as well as derivatives from outside those nations
that could mitigate the  risk , according to the filing.  The bank’s total credit exposure to the five countries was
$2.93 billion as of Dec. 31, according to the filing. The firm’s
“market exposure,” which includes positions in bonds, stocks,
 credit derivatives  and other securities, was $580 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 