-- Greek January Bank Deposits Fall Amid Bailout Brinkmanship
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s
-- 2012-02-29T17:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/greek-bank-deposits-in-january-decline-to-169-billion-euros.html
Greek bank deposits held by
businesses and households fell the most in three months in
January as the country struggled to secure a second aid package
to avoid economic collapse.  Deposits dropped to 169 billion euros ($226 billion) from
174.2 billion euros the previous month, a fall of 3 percent,
according to a statement released by the Athens-based  Bank of
Greece  on its website today. Deposits declined 35.4 billion
euros, or 17 percent, in 2011.  Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said in January that talks
weren’t easy as he pushed to reach agreement on the terms of a
debt swap with private creditors and on additional austerity
measures demanded by the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund  in return for a 130 billion-euro bailout.  “The overall uncertainty and the recessionary environment
played their role,” Athens-based National Securities analyst
Panagiotis Kladis said in an e-mail. “I think the second
bailout program agreed with the EU should result in more
confidence and thus to a moderation of deposit outflows.”  Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos on Feb. 24 called on
Greeks to bring their savings back to the nation’s banks after
the EU and IMF pledged to grant the country the second bailout.  Greece  committed to 3.2 billion euros of extra measures and
negotiated terms for the biggest debt restructuring in history
to secure the financing, a move that Venizelos told lawmakers in
Athens yesterday will “steer the ship to a safe harbor.”  Cost Covering  Small Greek businesses pulled out deposits over the last
six months to cover operating costs as revenues fell, according
to 74 percent of 1,200 enterprises polled by Marc SA for the
Small Businesses Institute at the  Hellenic Confederation of
Professionals, Craftsmen and Merchants .  Greek bank lending to households and businesses fell an
annual 3.3 percent in January, compared with a 3.1 percent
decline in December, according to an e-mailed statement from the
 Bank of Greece (TELL)  today.  Of the 65 billion euros of deposits lost since Dec. 2009,
only 16 billion euros has moved outside Greece, with 35 percent
of that amount going to the U.K., Venizelos said.  “The rest is either here in Greece, or has been taken
abroad without a banking transaction,” he said. Greeks have
taken out their deposits to invest them “in bonds of other
countries, jewels, artwork, gold, put them in safety deposit
boxes and, many, unfortunately are holding their deposits at
home, under mattresses.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  