-- GVK Power Gains on Optimism It May Sell Asset Stakes to Pay Debt
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-02-29T10:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/gvk-power-gains-on-optimism-it-may-sell-asset-stakes-to-pay-debt.html
GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd. (GVKP) ,
controlled by Indian billionaire G.V. Krishna Reddy, gained a
second day in Mumbai on speculation it will sell stakes in
assets to repay debt.  Shares of the builder of utilities and airports rose 3.8
percent to 17.95 rupees at the close, extending yesterday’s 8.1
percent gain. The stock has risen 55 percent this year,
outpacing the 15 percent increase in the key  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   The company explores various options to buy or sell stakes
in businesses in the normal course, GVK Power said in a stock
exchange filing yesterday. No agreement has been signed to sell
stakes in its airport or oil and gas businesses, it said.  “While denying that they are in agreement for a stake
sale, the GVK Power management indicated it has various options
open,” said Pramod Amthe, an analyst with RBS Equities India
Ltd. “Investors may still be hoping that these transactions
will materialize.”  GVK Power chief financial officer A. Issac George declined
to comment when reached on his mobile phone.  GVK Airport Holdings Pvt., the unit that operates the
Mumbai and Bangalore airports, increased its stake in the
properties last year. GVK Power has a total  debt  of 69 billion
rupees ($1.4 billion), according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  GVK Power is in talks with  BG Group Plc (BG/)  for a possible sale
of its stake in seven oil and gas blocks, Mint newspaper
reported yesterday, citing two unidentified people familiar with
the development. The Indian company is looking to raise $1.1
billion to invest in power and other businesses, according to
the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  