-- Microsoft Plans More Advertising for Windows Phone to ‘Smoke’ Competitors
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-02-29T15:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/microsoft-plans-more-ads-for-windows-phone-to-smoke-rivals.html
  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s
largest software maker, said it will increase advertising
spending to build market share for Windows Phone as it drives
into new regions.  “The next year to 18 months is really about seeing a
significant uptake in market share,” Aaron Woodman, the
director of Windows Phone, said in an interview at the Mobile
World Congress in Barcelona. Microsoft previously focused on
getting publicity and good reviews for the system, he said.  Microsoft handset partners led by  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  sold about
 2.8 million  Windows Phones in the fourth quarter for a
1.9 percent market share in smartphones, according to Gartner
Inc. The software maker needs to peddle tens of millions of
units a quarter to make its mobile software a durable contender
alongside  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android.  “It doesn’t feel like we’re really pushing apart from the
competition,” Woodman said. “We need to go pick a fight.”  Microsoft’s rallying cry will be that Windows Phone helps
users do what they want to do faster than handsets with other
operating systems, he said. Over the next six months, the
Redmond, Washington-based company will expand its  “Smoked by
Windows Phone”  campaign, in which users race handsets to
accomplish tasks through various digital and video media.  “We’ll do TV spots, the question is where,” Woodman said.
“Microsoft is patient and willing to use deep pockets, but
we’re also respectful of  shareholder value  so we want to pick
appropriate countries and spend levels.” He declined to specify
an advertising budget.  China Entry  Entering markets with lower smartphone penetration, such as
 China , could help Microsoft build volume. That requires cheaper
handsets that are starting to come to market. Nokia broke the
200-euro mark with the 189-euro ($254) Lumia 610 this week.  ZTE
Corp. (000063)  also introduced a cheaper Windows Phone, the  ZTE Orbit .  “We’re getting demand from handset makers and operators to
expand geographically more quickly than we originally thought,”
Woodman said. “In China, people are now able to afford data
cost, they’re pretty comfortable with that price point of the
Lumia 610, so there’s still significant volume.”  Microsoft is opening mobile applications stores in China,
 Thailand , Venezuela and 20 other nations by the end of the
month, with phones arriving around the same time, Terry Myerson,
who oversees the Windows Phone business, said this week. That
will bring the total number of markets Microsoft serves to 63,
letting it target 60 percent more buyers, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  