-- Microsoft Releases First Windows 8 Test to Compete With IPad
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-02-29T21:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/microsoft-releases-first-windows-8-test-to-compete-with-ipad.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  released the first
broadly available test version of the Windows 8 operating
system, giving consumers an early peek at software designed to
rival the touch-enabled features on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  The so-called Consumer Preview is available for download
from Microsoft’s  website . The Redmond, Washington-based company
demonstrated the software, which lets users store applications
in the Internet-based cloud in order to easily switch between
computers and Windows Phones, in a two-hour session at the
 Mobile World Congress  trade show in  Barcelona ,  Spain , today.  Revenue from Windows software, which runs most of the
world’s personal computers, has missed analysts’ estimates in
four of the past five quarters, in part because some consumers
are defecting from laptops with Windows to tablets. Microsoft
probably won’t be able to significantly change that trend until
Windows 8 goes on sale, Chief Financial Officer  Peter Klein  said
in an interview last month.  Julie Larson-Green, a Microsoft vice president, showed off
the software’s tile design and the ease of switching between
different applications on a tablet computer. The program allows
users to “pin” people to the Windows start screen to
communicate and maintain important contacts. Larson-Green also
demonstrated how the software allows live video to run within an
instant-messaging app.  “Windows 8 is really fast, fluid and responsive,”
Windows President Steven Sinofsky said today. “It’s really an
operating system for a new generation.”  Windows App Store  The company has declined to say when Windows 8 will be
officially released, although analysts expect it later this
year.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  has said it plans to introduce a
tablet based on the new software some time before the end of
2012.  Users have the option of signing in to a Windows account,
which lets them connect to their information stored in an
Internet-based cloud on multiple personal computers and Windows
Phones. This lets them access e-mail and calendars, take apps
and settings with them when they switch PCs and lets them use
cloud storage, the company said in a statement.  The release of the test version also marks the opening of
the Windows app store. Applications will be free during the
Consumer Preview period.  The operating system marks the first time Microsoft will
release a version of Windows for PCs that also runs on chips
with  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) ’s technology. Those are the kind of
processors that dominate the tablet market, giving those
machines better speed and battery life.  X86 Version  The test version available for download is the x86 version
of Windows that will run the rival chips from  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  The ARM-based systems will get a
narrower test audience, with Microsoft distributing thousands of
them shortly, Sinofsky said in an interview earlier this month.  The ARM version of Windows will only be sold pre-installed
on a computer or tablet and won’t run applications written for
older versions of Windows, while the x86 product will run
existing applications and can be sold separately, Sinofsky said.  Microsoft released an earlier preview of the program,
designed for software developers writing apps for Windows, in
September. Since them the team has made over 100,000 changes to
the product, Sinofsky said today.  Microsoft fell 0.4 percent to $31.74 at the close in  New
York . The shares have gained 22 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  