-- Time Warner Cable Tries Internet Usage-Based Billing Again as an Option
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-03-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/time-warner-cable-tries-usage-based-broadband-billing-again-as-an-option.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  is testing
consumers’ appetite for prices based on their broadband Internet
usage again, making the offer an option to avoid protests that
led it to abandon a similar plan three years ago.  The second-largest U.S. cable company will give southern
Texas customers the choice to pay less for broadband if they
consume lower levels of bandwidth, according to a  company blog
entry  on Feb. 27. Customers will save $5 on their monthly bill
if they accept a five gigabyte cap -- the equivalent of
streaming two high-definition full-length movies.  Facing the prospect of some consumers watching all their
video online and eventually dropping cable-TV, Time Warner Cable
is looking for ways to preserve revenue without antagonizing its
other broadband subscribers. The ability to increase the so-
called cord cutters’ Internet bills is a primary basis for
 investing  in cable stocks long term, said  Craig Moffett , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York .  “By one reading, Time Warner Cable is bending over
backward to emphasize this is customer friendly, but by another
reading, Time Warner Cable is simply afraid of their own
shadow,” Moffett, who rates the stock “outperform,” said of
Time Warner’s optional pricing program. “I suspect a little bit
of both are true.”  The key feature to the roll-out is choice, Irene Esteves,
Time Warner Cable’s chief financial officer, said Feb. 28 at an
investor conference. In 2009, the New York-based company
abandoned a test to charge customers for the amount of broadband
they used, without an opt-out clause, after consumers opposed
the plan.  Giving Flexibility  “It’s all about giving them flexibility,” Esteves said.
“It’s a terrific opportunity to keep more customers with us, if
they’re light users and they want to save some money.”  Esteves and Time Warner Cable Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt have said consumption-based billing is inevitable for the
industry. Charging consumers for the amount of broadband they
use may help the industry protect revenue if companies such as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  or  Google Inc. (GOOG)  move to offer cable-like products over
the Internet.  AT&T Inc.’s U-verse and Suddenlink Communications, the
seventh-largest U.S. cable carrier, have introduced caps in
certain regions, charging penalty fees if consumers exceed them.
The monthly limits are 150 gigabytes per month in the most
restrictive plan, or 30 times more than Time Warner Cable’s cap.  Extra Fees  Time Warner Cable subscribers will be charged $1 per extra
gigabyte over the cap, up to a maximum charge of $25 per month.
Time Warner Cable’s unlimited plans start at $34.95 a month for
12 months.  “If you watch online video, you should not opt for this
option,” said  Vijay Jayant , an analyst at ISI Group in New
York.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S. cable company, has for
years swatted away the idea of charging by usage, although CFO
Michael Angelakis indicated on Feb. 28 that Time Warner Cable’s
option plan is intriguing.  “I noticed that Time Warner Cable came out with something
yesterday, which we’ll explore,” Angelakis said at an investor
conference. “Don’t know exactly how that will work, but I give
them credit for trying different things.”  Time Warner Cable doesn’t need to force a change in
broadband pricing to all of its 10.3 million subscribers yet
because the company still isn’t seeing any evidence of cord-
cutting, said Esteves. The usage-based option will be
“incrementally profitable” because some customers who may have
shut off Time Warner Cable service may now stay with the
company, Esteves said.  The company will probably extend the optional broadband
pricing plan to more markets, said  Alex Dudley , a spokesman. The
constraints on adoption are technological rather than strategic,
he said. To measure broadband usage, Time Warner Cable has
developed meters that calculate household bandwidth usage.  Time Warner Cable fell 0.2 percent to $79.34 yesterday in
New York. The stock has gained 9.9 percent in the past year,
while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 2.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  