-- Time Is of the Essence in Deciding Fate of the Leap Second: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-29T00:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/time-is-of-the-essence-in-deciding-fate-of-the-leap-second-view.html
On leap day, let us pause to
consider the future of a much smaller time correction: the leap
second. Last month in Geneva, the  International
Telecommunication Union , an arm of the  United Nations  that
manages timekeeping, postponed for three years a decision on
whether to abolish leap seconds altogether.  This much-needed delay will allow the world to assess
exactly what it might cost scientists, computer engineers and
the rest of us to lose a tiny but powerful  mechanism  for keeping
track of real time.  Leap seconds  have existed only since 1972, because that was
the point when human clocks became so precise as to fall ever so
slightly out of sync with the actual day -- the time it takes
the Earth to spin once on its axis. Because a complete rotation
lasts a couple of milliseconds longer than 24 hours calibrated
to atomic transitions in cesium-133, an extra second is added to
our master clocks every couple of years or so.  The U.S. government has argued that leap seconds are a
bother no one needs. That adding them only risks disrupting the
smooth running of air traffic, satellite navigation, financial
transactions, power grids and other networks that rely on
synchronized clocks.  Another difficulty in managing leap seconds is that the
Earth’s rotation is so irregular -- influenced as it is by such
forces as weather,  sea level  and changes in the Earth’s core --
it’s impossible to predict very far in advance when one will be
needed. Official timekeepers are given only six months’ notice.
(The next leap second is scheduled for June 30.)  But no one has yet looked into what problems might arise
from allowing the  disparity  between clock time and Earth time to
grow. The immediate worry is not so much that our clocks and
watches would drift perceptibly out of line with familiar
markers of day and night -- dawn, noon, sunset. It would take
about half a century, after all, for atomic clocks to get ahead
of the natural day by even a minute, and hundreds of years to be
off by an hour.  But think how the drift could affect astronomers, who must
be able to aim their telescopes at specific stars and galaxies,
which cross the sky on Earth’s own time, heedless of atomic
clocks. A slight asynchrony might be trouble, too, for
controlling the navigation of satellites. It’s important to find
out.  One thing we know is that, in the past 40 years, the 24
leap seconds have caused no trouble. As clocks grow ever more
sophisticated, shouldn’t they only become better at adding the
extra seconds seamlessly?  As  Canada ,  China ,  Germany  and the U.K. argued in Geneva
last month, it would be a mistake to do away with leap seconds
without first looking into the possible consequences. We should
not be in a hurry to let go our ancient connection to
astronomical time.  So we applaud the ITU’s decision to wait three more years.  Before making any decision to abolish the leap second, the
ITU should also figure out how it would then  reckon  with the
growing gap between atomic and astronomical time. To do nothing
is not a solution. It would only leave a problem for future
generations to solve.  Several years ago, some scientists suggested scheduling a
leap hour for the year 2600. This idea was abandoned as
impractical, given that the instructions would have to be left
for people six centuries hence. But could there instead be, say,
a leap minute every half century?  Let’s hope three years is enough time to figure this out;
the clock has started.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 