-- IMF Staff Backs Currency Intervention as a Policy Tool in Emerging Markets
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-02-29T17:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/imf-staff-backs-currency-intervention-as-a-policy-tool-in-emerging-markets.html
Currency intervention is a valid
instrument for central banks of emerging markets to use
alongside  interest rates , the International Monetary Fund staff
said in a report.  Many developing economies have chosen to set an inflation
target to anchor expectations after a history of price
instability, according to the report. Openly adopting a second
policy tool focused on managing exchange rates is likely to
strengthen central banks’ credibility rather than undermine it,
the IMF economists argue.  “The crisis has taught us that policy makers need to
deliver more than stable consumer prices if they are to achieve
sustained and stable growth, and that the instruments at their
disposal include more than just the policy interest rate,”
according to the report, whose authors include IMF Research
Department Deputy Director Jonathan Ostry. For  emerging markets 
“there are potentially two policy targets: inflation and the
exchange rate.”  The report reflects recent efforts at the IMF to challenge
macro-economic beliefs and adjust recommendations in the
aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis, which the lender failed
detect. The Washington-based IMF last year endorsed  capital
controls  as part of the toolkit to manage inflows of money that
threaten countries’ financial stability, marking a turn from its
advice from crises in  Latin America  and  Asia  in the 1990s.  Exchange Rates  Brazil ’s central bank earlier this month stepped up moves
to contain the real’s appreciation and  Colombia  said it would
resume purchases of dollars to ease a rally in the peso. The
Bank of  Thailand  will let the market decide the exchange-rate of
the baht and step in when needed, Deputy Governor Suchada Kirakul said today.  “Sometimes when there is excessive volatility, we could
step in,” Suchada said, adding the bank intervened “a little
bit” last week.  Actions by emerging markets’ policy makers suggest they
believe they can influence exchange rates, Ostry said in a
separate blog post.  “Policy makers in emerging markets countries are right to
allow exchange rates objectives to enter into their decisions,”
Ostry told journalists on a conference call today. Still they
should make it clear they are choosing currency interventions as
a tool “for words to be consistent with deeds,” he said.  “It’s much better to say that ‘we actually have two
instruments so we will be able to do what is necessary to
achieve our inflation target but we’re not going to let the
exchange rate deviate in vast ways,’” he said.  Ignoring exchange rate volatility can be costly for
emerging markets, according to the report.  If “a sudden surge in capital inflows leads to a large,
temporary appreciation of the currency above its medium-term
value, and that results in economic dislocation, then some
intervention in the foreign exchange market is likely to be
optimal,” even if there’s an inflation target, according to the
report, whose authors also include Atish Ghosh and Marcos
Chamon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  