-- India Said to Consider Asking Iran to Deliver Oil, Get Insurance
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2012-02-29T09:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/india-said-to-consider-asking-iran-to-deliver-oil-get-insurance.html
India may ask  Iran  to take
responsibility for delivering crude to the South Asian nation,
allowing domestic refiners to avoid arranging insurance on the
shipments, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  The plan is one of two options being considered by the
government as it seeks to maintain oil imports from Iran amid
tightened international sanctions against the Persian Gulf
supplier, the people said, declining to be identified because
the information is confidential. The other option is for India
to provide sovereign guarantees to domestic companies hauling
crude from Iran, they said.  The European Union and U.S. have imposed sanctions to
protest  Iran’s nuclear program , restricting trade and financial
transactions. The U.S. and its allies say they suspect the
program is a cover for developing atomic weapons, a charge Iran
has repeatedly denied, maintaining it’s for civilian purposes.  An EU ban on the purchase, transportation, financing and
insurance of Iranian oil affects Asian importers because 95
percent of the world’s tankers are insured by the 13 members of
the London-based  International Group  of P&I Clubs. That means
fewer ships may be available to load the cargoes from the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ second-largest
producer.  Indian refiners previously have been responsible for
arranging insurance when buying Iranian crude. They may now ask
Iran to supply the oil on a cost-insurance-and-freight basis,
according to the people. That means the Islamic Republic will
deliver the crude, arranging shipment and insurance, according
to the people.  Shipping Corp.  Shipping Corp. of India  hasn’t told Indian refiners it
can’t lift Iranian crude, Sunil Thapar, the Mumbai-based
director of bulk carriers and tankers at the state-run shipping
company said. Thapar said the company continues to load Iranian
crude, and is receiving insurance cover on a case-by-case basis.
He declined to comment on the options being considered by  India 
to solve the difficulties in receiving insurance cover for the
shipments.  “The industry has asked for a guarantee in lieu of
protection and indemnity,” Shipping Secretary K. Mohandas said
in an interview yesterday. He declined to say when a decision
may be taken, adding that it will be decided at the “highest
levels” of government. Mohandas was unavailable to comment when
contacted by telephone today in  New Delhi  today.  The international measures have made it difficult for India
and Iran to preserve $9.5 billion in annual crude trade, after
the  Reserve Bank  of India dismantled a mechanism used to settle
payments in euros and dollars in December 2010. Transactions are
currently routed through  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) , based in
Ankara, which has told Indian refiners it may no longer be able
to act as an intermediary, four people with knowledge of the
matter said Jan. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  