-- ONGC Surges to Nine-Month High as $2.5 Billion Stake Offered at Premium
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-02-29T10:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/india-seeks-2-5-billion-auctioning-ongc-stake-to-close-budget-shortfall.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) , India’s
biggest energy exploration company, climbed to a nine-month high
after the government approved a plan to raise 124 billion rupees
($2.5 billion) by selling shares at a premium.  ONGC rose 3.5 percent to 293.20 rupees, the highest level
since May 16. The stock has climbed 14 percent this year
compared with a 15 percent gain in the key  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   The government approved the auction at a minimum price of
290 rupees a share, which is 2.3 percent higher than yesterday’s
close. Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  is seeking to raise
funds as he struggles to meet a budget deficit target of 4.6
percent of gross domestic product after slowing economic growth
lowered revenue receipts.  “I was expecting the floor price to be a little bit of a
discount to yesterday’s close and the premium shows the
government’s confidence in the company and the potential demand
for the offering,” U.R. Bhat, managing director of Dalton
Capital Advisors  India  Pvt., said by telephone from Mumbai.
“Investors will buy the stock because state-run companies
provide some kind of stability.”  The government will offer 427.77 million ONGC shares,
equivalent to a 5 percent stake in the company, at tomorrow’s
sale, according to a filing to the National Stock Exchange. The
auction will open at 9:15 a.m. and close at 3:30 p.m., according
to yesterday’s filing.  “We are confident the sale will be fully subscribed,” Oil
Minister S. Jaipal Reddy told reporters in New Delhi today.  Sensex Slump  A panel of ministers approved the sale yesterday, Reddy
said. The state owns 74 percent of the explorer.  A 25 percent slump in the Sensex index in 2011 undermined
efforts to sell shares of state-owned companies, with the
government meeting 3 percent of its 400 billion-rupee target for
the year ending March 31.  The government in November scrapped a proposal to sell a 5
percent stake in New Delhi-based ONGC in a public offering.
Plans for sales in other state companies including  Bharat Heavy
Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) ,  Steel Authority of India Ltd.  and  Hindustan
Copper Ltd. (HCP)  have also been delayed.  Mukherjee said Jan. 11 that it will be “difficult” for
the government to achieve its  deficit  target. Revenue collection
reached 63.3 percent of the annual goal in the nine months to
December, compared with 73.2 percent in the same period a year
ago, according to the Controller General of Accounts.  The  Securities and Exchange Board of India , the market
regulator, announced the  rules  for sale of shares through
auctions to institutional investors on Feb. 1. The National
Stock Exchange of India said a mock bidding session would be
held in preparation for the ONGC share auction.  Trade unions oppose the government’s plan to sell stakes in
state companies, saying it will lead to job losses. Banks closed
and bus services were canceled yesterday as millions of Indian
government employees joined a nationwide strike to protest asset
sales and the cost of living.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  