-- India Seeks $2.5B in ONGC Auction
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-02-29T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/india-seeks-2-5b-in-ongc-auction.html
India  plans to raise $2.5 billion by
offering a stake in  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  in the first auction
of a state-run company’s shares as the government seeks to
narrow a budget deficit that’s already exceeded its target.  The 427.77 million ONGC shares, equivalent to a 5 percent
stake, are being sold at a minimum price of 290 rupees each, a
1.1 percent discount to yesterday’s close. The stake in India’s
biggest energy explorer is valued at 124 billion rupees ($2.5
billion) at the floor price.  The country’s fiscal deficit topped the target for the
financial year in the 10 months through January, adding pressure
for steps to restrain the gap. Foreign funds have been net
buyers this year, driving the benchmark  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  to a
seven-month high in February and paving the way for Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  to revive asset sales aimed at raising
400 billion rupees in the year ending March 31.  “If this auction is successful, and I think it will be,
this will become the most preferred route for state-company
stake sales,” said Kamlesh Kotak, vice president of research at
Asian Markets Securities Pvt. in Mumbai. “This could even help
boost the overall market as more foreign investors come in.”  Foreign investors have poured $7.2 billion into stocks this
year and $4.8 billion into debt, data from the regulator show.
Flows into equities in February totaled $5 billion, the most
since September 2010.  ONGC rose 3.5 percent to 293.20 rupees, the highest since
May 16, in Mumbai yesterday. The stock has climbed 14 percent
this year. The index tracking shares of 60 Indian state-run
companies gained 1.5 percent to the highest since Feb. 21.  Slowing Growth  Mukherjee’s plan to cut the  budget deficit  to a four-year
low of 4.6 percent of gross domestic product has been hampered
by higher spending and lower revenue collection as economic
growth slows.  India’s economy  expanded at the slowest pace in
more than two years last quarter, the  Central Statistical Office 
said yesterday.  The government has raised 3 percent of the target from
stake sales. Offerings in companies including  Bharat Heavy
Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) , Steel Authority of India Ltd. and Hindustan
Copper Ltd. were delayed after the Sensex’s 25 percent decline
last year. The government in November scrapped a plan to sell a
5 percent stake in New Delhi-based ONGC in a public offering.  The state raised 152 billion rupees in October 2010 in a
Coal India Ltd. initial public offering, the country’s largest.  The  Securities and Exchange Board of India , the market
regulator, announced rules for the sale of shares through
auctions to institutional investors on Feb. 1.  Real Worth  “The auction route reduces a three-month share sale
process to two days,” Kotak said. “There’s negligible
paperwork, no long road shows and issues can come quickly to the
market.”  ONGC declined 20 percent in 2011 amid concern that its fuel
subsidy burden is mounting. The explorer’s discounts on oil
sales to state refiners, offered as compensation for selling
fuels below cost, tripled to 125.4 billion rupees in the quarter
ended Dec. 31, reducing profit by 72 billion rupees.  Still, ONGC shares may be attractive because its price-to-
earnings ratio is the fourth-lowest among the 30 Sensex
companies, making it cheap, according to Geojit BNP Paribas
Financial Services. ONGC is trading at a one-year price-to-
earnings ratio of 9.4 compared with 15.7 percent for the Sensex.  “ONGC’s valuation is below its real worth and that will be
an incentive for investors to buy,” said Alex Mathews, Kochi-
based head of research at Geojit BNP Paribas. “There is a
belief that the government will liberalize fuel pricing at some
point and that will boost ONGC.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 