-- Indian Economy Grows the Least Since 2009, Adding to Case for Rate Cuts
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-02-29T12:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/india-s-gdp-grows-least-since-2009.html
India ’s economy grew at the slowest
pace in more than two years last quarter as domestic demand
weakened and the global recovery faltered, adding pressure on
the central bank to lower  interest rates .  Gross domestic product  rose 6.1 percent in the three months
through December following the previous quarter’s 6.9 percent
climb, the Central Statistical Office said in a statement in New
Delhi today. The median of 29 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 6.3 percent advance.  The  Reserve Bank of India  has signaled readiness to join
nations from  Brazil  to  Indonesia  in cutting borrowing costs to
aid the economy as price rises ease, saying steps to curb the
fiscal deficit in March’s budget would boost its scope to act.
Borrowing costs are at their highest level since 2008 to fight
inflation, sapping expansion as policy gridlock hurts investment.  “Growth will remain subdued in the next few quarters,”
said  Sonal Varma , a Mumbai-based economist at Nomura Holdings
Inc. “Slowing growth and cooling inflation are creating
conditions for the RBI to cut rates, but a larger  budget deficit 
is limiting the central bank’s space.”  The rupee strengthened 0.1 percent to 49.0238 per dollar at
the close today. It has rebounded 8.2 percent so far in 2012
after sliding 16 percent last year, the worst fall in  Asia . The
 BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  rose 0.1 percent. The yield on the
8.79 percent note due November 2021 fell one basis points, or
0.01 percentage point, to 8.2 percent.  Europe’s Impact  Asian officials are striving to weather the impact of
 Europe ’s debt crisis on the world economy, which remains in
“the danger zone,” according to International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde . Growth slowed last quarter
in nations such as  China  and  South Korea  as exports moderated.  The Reserve Bank’s record 3.75 percentage points of
increases in the  repurchase rate  from March 2010 to October last
year, to 8.5 percent, also crimped expansion in Asia’s third-
largest economy.  Manufacturing in India rose 0.4 percent in the three months
through December from a year earlier, slower than the 2.7
percent gain in the previous quarter, today’s report showed.
Mining fell 3.1 percent, farm output climbed 2.7 percent and
construction grew 7.2 percent.  Indian inflation eased to a 26-month low of 6.55 percent in
January, after exceeding 9 percent for most of 2011. It remains
the fastest in the so-called BRIC group that also includes
Brazil, Russia and China. Credit Suisse Group AG predicts the
 Reserve Bank  will cut rates by 175 basis points by January 2013.  Fiscal Deficit  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao reviews rates on March 15, the
day before Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  unveils the budget
for the next fiscal year. The government forecasts GDP may rise
6.9 percent in the year through March, the least since 2009.  The Reserve Bank on Jan. 24 cut the amount of deposits
lenders need to set aside as reserves for the first time since
2009, seeking to ease a  cash squeeze .  It said inflationary threats, such as the fiscal deficit
and energy prices, made it “premature” to start reducing
borrowing costs, while reinforcing guidance that future rate
actions will be towards lowering them.  The deficit exceeded the full-year target in the 10 months
through January, another report showed today, reaching 4.35
trillion rupees ($88.7 billion). The government’s goal was 4.13
trillion rupees in the year through March.  Economic Stability  The shortfall may surge to 6.1 percent of GDP in the
current fiscal year, according to Nomura Holdings Inc. and Kotak
Mahindra Bank Ltd., exceeding Mukherjee’s goal of 4.6 percent.
Slower growth has hurt tax receipts even as subsidies and an
employment guarantee program for rural workers spur spending.  “The major priority for macro-economic stability and
reviving growth today is fiscal consolidation,” said Rupa Rege Nitsure, an economist at state-owned  Bank of Baroda  in Mumbai.  Millions of Indian government employees went on strike
yesterday, protesting the cost of living and plans to sell
stakes in state-run companies to help plug the budget gap. Trade
unions say the disposals will lead to job losses.  As growth slows, companies are also struggling. Maruti
Suzuki India Ltd., the country’s biggest carmaker, posted a 64
percent drop in third-quarter net income as demand waned.  India’s investment-to-GDP ratio was 30 percent last quarter,
less than a recent high of 34 percent in the three months
through September 2010, according to government data.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s administration is under
pressure to step up efforts to bolster the economy, after claims
of graft and protests stalled its legislative agenda.  The government in December suspended its decision to allow
foreign retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to open
supermarkets. Once the global economy stabilizes, India will
return to 8.5 percent to 9 percent trend expansion, Singh said
in an interview the same month.  “What India urgently needs is expediting policy reforms to
attract higher investments,” said Jay Shankar, an economist at
Religare Capital Markets Ltd. in Mumbai. “We need to get out of
the policy logjam soon to achieve the aspiration of double-digit
growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  