-- Indian Bonds Complete Monthly Advance as Reserve Bank Buys Debt
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-02-29T12:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/india-s-bonds-set-for-monthly-advance-as-reserve-bank-buys-debt.html
India ’s benchmark  bonds  completed a
monthly gain as the central bank continued debt purchases to
ease a cash squeeze in the banking system.  Yields fell after the  Reserve Bank  of India cut the amount
of deposits lenders need to set aside as  reserves  to 5.5 percent
from 6 percent on Jan. 24, the first reduction since 2009. The
monetary authority, which has bought 1 trillion rupees ($20.4
billion) of bonds since November, will offer to purchase as much
as 120 billion rupees of government notes this week, the central
bank said in a statement yesterday.  “Bond purchases are supporting the drop in yields despite
tight cash conditions,” said M. Natarajan, the Mumbai-based
head of treasury at  Bank of Nova Scotia. (BNS)  “One more reduction in
the reserve ratio next month also looks like a done deal.”  The yield on the 8.79 percent notes due November 2021
declined six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 8.21
percent in Mumbai this month, according to the central bank’s
trading system. The rate fell one basis point today.  Lenders  borrowed  a record 1.8 trillion rupees at the
 Reserve Bank of India ’s repurchase auction today, according to
RBI data, three times the maximum of 600 billion rupees favored
by the central bank. The next policy review is due on March 15.  India’s  economy  grew at the slowest pace in more than two
years last quarter as domestic demand weakened and the global
recovery faltered, adding pressure on the central bank to lower
 interest rates .  ’Subdued Growth’  Gross domestic product rose 6.1 percent in the three months
through December following the previous quarter’s 6.9 percent
gain, the  Central Statistical Office  said in a statement in  New
Delhi  today. The median of 29 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 6.3 percent advance.  “Growth will remain subdued in the next few quarters,”
said  Sonal Varma , a Mumbai-based economist at Nomura Holdings
Inc. “Slowing growth and cooling inflation are creating
conditions for the RBI to cut rates, but a larger  budget deficit 
is limiting the central bank’s space.”  Varma predicted the central bank will cut the cash reserve
ratio by 50 basis points in March. Nomura expects the  repurchase 
rate, at which the monetary authority lends to banks, to be
reduced by 100 basis points to 7.5 percent in 2012.  The nation’s budget  deficit  exceeded the full-year target
in the first 10 months of the fiscal year ending March 31, the
Controller General of Accounts said on its website today. The
shortfall was 4.35 trillion rupees, compared with an aim of 4.13
trillion rupees.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in funding costs,
fell two basis points this month to 8.14 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate fell four basis points
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  