-- Intesa Joins Lloyds Among Borrowers in Record ECB Loan Offer
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-02-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/intesa-lloyds-among-borrowers-at-ecb-s-record-lending-operation.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Italy ’s second-
largest bank, and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  of the U.K. were
among firms that disclosed the biggest borrowings at the
 European Central Bank ’s record offering of three-year loans.  Intesa borrowed 24 billion euros ($32 billion), while
Lloyds took 11.4 billion pounds ($18.2 billion), the companies
said yesterday. In all, the Frankfurt-based ECB doled out 529.5
billion euros to some 800 banks, surpassing economists’ median
estimate of 470 billion euros in a Bloomberg News survey.  “The number was surprisingly high,” said  John Raymond , an
analyst at CreditSights Inc. in  London . “It’s not necessarily
entirely good news because it might mean banks are relying on
the ECB more than we thought they would at this stage. You can
read it several ways. You would expect them in a difficult
market to at least take enough to cover maturities this year.”  Two rounds of three-year loans from the ECB, designed to
avert a credit crunch, have eased concern that  Europe ’s banks
would run out of cash or curb lending as the region’s sovereign-
debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. The number of financial
institutions and the amount borrowed increased from the December
operation, when 523 banks took 489 billion euros.  The funds cost the average of the ECB’s benchmark interest
rate -- currently at a record-low 1 percent -- over the period
of the loans and banks can repay them after a year.  ‘Insulated’ From Shocks  “Banks are now largely insulated from shocks in the
funding market,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts Jernej Omahen and Pawel Dziedzic wrote in a note.  The  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index  of
43 companies rose for a second day yesterday.  Italian banks borrowed 139 billion euros, or 26 percent of
the total, according to a person with knowledge of the matter
who wasn’t authorized to discuss it publicly. Of that, about 80
billion euros was new borrowing and the rest was rolled over
from other ECB loans, the person said.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS) , Italy’s No. 3 bank,
borrowed between 10 billion euros and 15 billion euros in three-
year loans from the ECB, according to a person with knowledge of
the matter.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s largest bank, participated in
the ECB lending operation, borrowing less than 12.5 billion
euros, said a person familiar with the situation.  Italy, Spain, Germany  Italy’s  Unione di Banche Italiane Scpa (UBI)  borrowed 6 billion
euros, while  Banco Popolare SC (BP)  took 3.5 billion euros, people
with knowledge of the matter said. Spokesmen for the companies
declined to comment.  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  of Milan planned to apply
for 4 billion euros, Chief Executive Officer  Alberto Nagel  said
last week.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,  Spain  second-largest
bank, planned to seek about as much as in December, when it
borrowed 11 billion euros, Chairman  Francisco Gonzalez  told El
Pais newspaper on Feb. 26.  Spain’s  Banco Sabadell SA (SAB)  took 6 billion euros in three-
year ECB loans, after borrowing 4 billion euros in the previous
offer, a person with knowledge of the situation said. Banco
Popular SA said it participated, without elaborating, while
 Banco Santander SA (SAN) , the biggest Spanish bank, declined to
comment.  Aareal Bank AG, a German commercial-property lender, said
it tapped the three-year loans for about 1 billion euros, while
Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen, the German state-owned lender
known as Helaba, said it borrowed a “moderate” amount. Both
banks said they didn’t need the funds.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  of  Frankfurt , the
biggest German banks, declined to say whether they participated,
as did Munich-based  Bayerische Landesbank .  Aegon, HSBC  Aegon NV and SNS Reeal NV of the Netherlands borrowed from
the ECB, without saying how much. Achmea Bank took 700 million
euros while its Staalbankiers unit borrowed 200 million euros,
the company said. ING Groep NV, the largest Dutch financial
services firm, and ABN Amro Bank NV said they didn’t
participate.  London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest bank, said
this week that it would take about 350 million euros of loans at
the auction after taking 5.2 billion euros previously. A  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  spokesman declined to comment on
whether the Edinburgh-based bank had taken money from the ECB at
its latest offering after borrowing 5 billion pounds last year.  France ’s largest banks,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA
and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , declined to comment. Groupe BPCE
Chairman Francois Perol said last week his bank didn’t plan to
participate in the ECB operation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  