-- Integrated Healthcare Said to Market S$650 Million Facility
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-02-29T06:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/integrated-healthcare-said-to-market-s-650-million-facility-1-.html
Integrated Healthcare Holdings Sdn.
began marketing a loan of about S$650 million ($521 million) to
help finance the acquisition of a  Turkey  hospital chain, a
person familiar with the matter said.  The three-year facility is split into a S$470 million part
and a 450 million ringgit ($150 million) portion, the person
said, asking not to be identified as the details are private.  Asia ’s biggest hospital operator is offering to pay a
starting margin of 100 basis points, or 1 percentage point, over
the Singapore dollar swap offer rate for the Singapore dollar-
denominated loan, the person said. That increases to 150 basis
points after 12 months, and 200 after two years, the person
said.  Integrated Healthcare, controlled by Khazanah Nasional
Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s state investment company, agreed to buy 75
percent of the owner of Turkey’s largest hospital group,
 Acibadem Saglik Hizmetleri & Ticaret AS (ACIBD) , in December.  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , Bank of America Corp., Credit
Suisse Group AG, DBS Group Holdings Ltd., Deutsche Bank AG and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. were hired to arrange a loan to help
finance the transaction, another person familiar with the matter
said on Dec. 8.  CIMB, which is acting as the loan’s agent bank, will fund
the ringgit portion itself, the person said today. That part of
the lending initially pays a margin equal to CIMB’s cost of
funds plus 60 basis points more than benchmark rates, rising to
110 basis points after the first year and 160 after the second,
the person said.  The five other banks arranging the Singapore dollar funding
expect to attract another two to four banks in general
syndication, a process which should take four to six weeks, the
person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  