-- Intelligent Energy Gets Funds From Artemis to Expand Fuel Cells
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-02-29T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/intelligent-energy-gets-funds-from-artemis-to-expand-fuel-cells.html
Intelligent Energy Ltd. , a maker of
fuel cells for cars, businesses and homes, raised $35 million to
finance expansion as demand for small-scale power generation
boosts sales of the hydrogen-based devices in  Asia .  Intelligent Energy raised most of the funds from
institutional investors in London and private equity firms,
Chief Executive Officer Henri Winand said yesterday by phone.
Investors included Artemis Global Energy, Altima Partners LLP
and F&C Asset Management Plc, according to the company.  The money will fund stationary projects such as distributed
energy generation, which refers to small-scale power production
near the point of use. Asian demand for cells at car fueling
stations, as a primary or backup power source for businesses and
homes, and in off-grid areas has grown as governments seek to
increase  energy efficiency  amid burgeoning consumption.  “For distributed generation our key market is India, and
China is also a growth market,” Winand said. “We are in talks
with companies in  China  at the moment to form partnerships.”  Intelligent Energy values the market for stationary power
applications at $150 billion and the consumer electronic power
market at about $410 billion, according to an e-mailed statement
from the Loughborough, England-based company. Its sales totaled
about $20 million in the year through September and will at
least double by the end of September 2012, Winand said.  Cars, Telecoms  Fuel cells that are used to generate electricity at the
point of use help to avoid transmission losses, unlike the power
from big remote plants. In the  auto industry , Intelligent Energy
has added three business clients in 18 months in the  Far East 
and  Europe , Winand said. It has also struck an “outline deal
with a large contract manufacturer” and is “exploring two
telecom equipment companies,” he said, without elaborating.  Intelligent Energy is valued at about $500 million and has
raised 120 million pounds ($190 million) to date, Winand said.
It’s ready for an initial share sale should an offering “make
sense,” the CEO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in  London  at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  