-- Iran Is Seen Suffering Crippling Effect of Sanctions on Oil Trade, Banking
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-02-29T23:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/iran-is-seen-suffering-crippling-effect-of-sanctions-on-oil-trade-banking.html
The cascade of U.S. and European
sanctions imposed on  Iran  is crippling its ability to export oil
and conduct trade, hitting the Gulf state’s economy and stoking
internal dissent, U.S. officials said.  An array of restrictions on banking, shipping, insurance,
ports, trade, commodities and energy transactions and ventures
have severed or complicated many of Iran’s commercial ties to
the outside world. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  say there
is limited time for sanctions to pressure Iran into giving up
disputed nuclear activities before the U.S. or  Israel  may take
military action.  Noor Islamic Bank, whose chairman is a son of Dubai’s ruler,
said yesterday it severed relations with Iranian banks in 
December. Swift, the financial-messaging service for most cross-
border money transfers, said last week it cut off more than 20
sanctioned Iranian banks and the central bank, according to two
officials involved in the talks.  India , the third-biggest buyer
of Iranian  oil , may ask Iran to deliver its own crude so Indian
refiners avoid violating restrictions on arranging insurance,
two people with knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  ‘Crippling Effect’  “The plethora of sanctions flowing from the U.S. and EU
has had a crippling effect on international trade with Iran,”
Nigel Kushner, a lawyer specializing in Iran trade and
sanctions, said in an interview.  Kushner, chief executive of Whale Rock Legal, a London law
firm whose clients include exporters engaged in legal trade with
Iran, said the sanctions have become so onerous that many in the
insurance and shipping industries are dropping Iran-related
business entirely.  Swift, the Belgium-based Society for Worldwide Interbank
Financial Telecommunication, told U.S. authorities they preferred
to expel Iran’s central bank than engage in the complicated 
process of sequestering and verifying legal transactions,
according to U.S. officials.  “It’s having a devastating impact,” Kushner said.
“Recent events are unprecedented in their reach and impact
since this is coupled with successful, informal pressure being
placed on Iran’s trading partners to cut ties.”  Nuclear Bomb  The U.S. and its allies say Iran is seeking the capability
to make an nuclear bomb. Iran says its program is for civilian
energy and medical research.  Israeli leaders, such as Defense Minister  Ehud Barak , have
said they may take military action within months if Iran doesn’t
abandon suspected military aspects of its nuclear program.  Oil prices  have increased 8.3 percent this year, in part on
the prospect of a disruption in Gulf oil supplies. Crude oil for
April delivery gained 52 cents, or 0.5 percent, to settle
yesterday at $107.07 a barrel on the Nymex.  Since a Nov. 8 report by United Nations inspectors that
raised questions about  Iran’s nuclear program , the U.S. and EU
have piled on increasingly stringent economic penalties --
including U.S. sanctions on non-petroleum transactions with the
Iranian central bank that took effect yesterday and an EU
embargo on Iranian oil that starts July 1.  Bank Tejarat  Those penalties are only the steps that have drawn the most
public attention. The U.S. and EU also took coordinated action
to cut off from the international financial system Iran’s Bank
Tejarat, the last institution financing high-volume exports and
imports between Iran and  Europe , a move that affects tens of
billions of euros in trade.  EU sanctions announced Jan. 23 on Iran’s largest ports
operator will also curb billions of euros in otherwise legal
trade. An asset freeze on Tidewater Middle East Co. affects
European companies all along the trade and supply chain. The EU
was Iran’s top trade partner in 2010, with about 13 billion
euros ($17.3 billion) in non-petroleum trade that year, European
Commission and International Monetary Fund figures show.  Iran’s Supreme Leader,  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , referred to
the panoply of sanctions in a national broadcast Feb. 3 as
“painful and crippling.” President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said
Nov. 1 that “our banks cannot make international transactions
anymore.”  Iran’s Assurances  Iranian officials have assured the public they will prevail
in the face of sanctions. Deputy Oil Minister Ahmad Qalebani
said yesterday that Iran is exporting about 2 million barrels of
crude a day and has an increasing number of buyers even as
countries impose sanctions, according to the state-run Mehr news
agency.  Iran, the second-largest oil producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , pumped
about 3.545 million barrels of crude a day in January, a
Bloomberg survey showed, and exported an average 2.58 million
barrels a day in 2010, according to OPEC statistics.  ‘Plummeting Currency’  The sustained, global sanctions effort “has brought very
substantial economic and financial pressure on the Iranian
regime,” U.S. Undersecretary of Treasury  David Cohen  said in a
speech in  New York  yesterday. That is reflected “most
dramatically in its plummeting currency,” which has lost half
its value since September, he said. It was a reference to the
market rate that ordinary Iranians use to acquire a hard
currency rather than the official rate.  “International sanctions have disrupted Iranian trade to
such an extent that, as of late last year, many Iranian banks
were experiencing capital shortages,” he said.  The U.S. and its allies say the intent of the sanctions is
to exert political pressure on Iran, rather than simply to
cripple its economy. Clinton testified before Congress yesterday
that “sanctions are working. They are producing the kind of
pressure we had hoped for.”  “We believe from all of our reporting and sourcing that
the sanctions are having an impact inside Iran,” she told a
House appropriations panel. “We know there is a debate going on
inside Iran among various power centers.”  Military Options  Military options are also part of the Obama
administration’s choices for dealing with Iran, Air Force Chief
of Staff Norton Schwartz told reporters yesterday in  Washington .  The UN Security Council has imposed four rounds of
sanctions on Iran since 2006, while the U.S. and the European
Union have leveled dozens of their own sanctions on Iranian
entities including banks, engineering conglomerates, shipping
companies, ports operators, energy companies and individuals to
punish links to illicit missile and nuclear activities and to
pressure Iran’s leaders to abandon disputed aspects of the
country’s nuclear program.  After years of on-again, off-again talks between Iran and
the five permanent members of the  United Nations Security
Council  -- the U.S.,  France , Britain,  China ,  Russia  -- plus
 Germany , Iran sent a letter earlier this month saying it was
ready to return to negotiations over its nuclear program. U.S.
and European officials have credited economic pressure as the
impetus.  ‘Test the Sincerity’  The international community will need to “test the
sincerity” of Iran’s offer to negotiate, Clinton said
yesterday.  Mark Dubowitz , executive director of the Foundation for the
Defense of Democracies, a Washington research institute, said
the individual sanctions amount to a “comprehensive, mutually
reinforcing” strategy designed to cut off Iranian access to
hard currency, fuel a hyperinflationary environment in Iran and
render the Iranian currency worthless.  The net effect “will be to make it increasingly difficult
for the Iranian regime to manage the economic crisis that it has
imposed on its own people,” forcing it to make concessions,
Dubowitz said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  