-- Iran to Take Gold Payments From Trade Partners, Agency Says
-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 2012-02-29T09:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/iran-to-take-gold-payments-from-trade-partners-agency-says-2-.html
Iran will accept payments from
trading partners in gold in addition to dollars and other
currencies, central bank Governor Mahmoud Bahmani said,
according to the official Islamic Republic  News Agency .  Any nation can pay in its own currency, and Iran has
already accepted goods as payment from China and India, the
central bank said, according to IRNA. Iran will accept gold from
any country, Bahmani said, according to the news agency.  The European Union and U.S. have imposed sanctions to
protest  Iran’s nuclear program , restricting trade and financial
transactions. The U.S. and its allies say they suspect the
program is a cover for developing atomic weapons, a contention
Iran has denied, maintaining it is for civilian purposes.  “This is a confirmation of gold’s status as a store of
value, a universal currency,”  Michael Cuggino , who helps manage
about $15 billion of assets at  Permanent Portfolio (PRPFX)  Funds in  San
Francisco , said by phone. “It transcends national borders.”  Gold has rallied for 11 years as investors sought a hedge
against inflation and as the  dollar  fell. Futures, which reached
a record of $1,923.70 an ounce in September, traded little
changed at $1,786.40 at 5:06 p.m. in Singapore.  Evade Sanctions  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  is scheduled to
meet President Barack Obama at the White House March 5 amid
speculation that Israel may launch a military strike against
Iran’s nuclear facilities. The increased geopolitical tension
has helped to boost the price of crude, with  oil futures  in  New
York  gaining 8.3 percent this year to $107.06 a barrel.  An Obama administration official said yesterday that  Iran ’s
action reflects its inability to engage in normal financial
activity, and the EU has decided to ban transfers of gold and
other precious metals to help block efforts to evade sanctions.  A second U.S. official said Iran’s efforts won’t exempt its
trade partners from the U.S. National Defense Authorization Act,
which includes a freeze on assets of the Central Bank of Iran
and sanctions on overseas financial institutions that engage in
arms-length transactions with Iran’s central bank. The officials
spoke on condition of anonymity in order to discuss the
administration’s internal assessment.  “They are doing this because gold has always been viewed
as an alternative currency,” said Wei Chishan, an analyst at
Shanghai Metals Market, which has more than 400 researchers.  Central banks bought a record 439.7 metric tons last year
and will continue adding bullion in 2012, according to the
producer-funded World Gold Council.  India  and China are the
world’s biggest bullion consumers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  