-- Irish Seek to Tempt Millionaires With Visa Bonds
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-02-29T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/ireland-seeks-to-tempt-millionaires-with-bonds-giving-visas-to-investors.html
Ireland plans to sell a bond with a
different kind of coupon: a resident’s visa.  Under proposals to be laid out next month, the government
will offer the visas to investors who spend at least 2 million
euros ($2.7 million) on a new “low-interest” security, 1
million euros on property or invest in an Irish company. The
sale is aimed at people from outside the  European Union (EURR002W)  who need
permits to live and work in the 27-member bloc.  “You might have businesspeople in  China  or in  Brazil  or in
various non-EU countries who would like to be entitled to come
and reside here,” Irish Justice Minister Alan Shatter said in
an interview in Dublin. “The scheme has great potential.”  The proposal is among the more unusual in a wave of
initiatives to win investment as Ireland seeks to rebuild its
economy and markets after one of the biggest banking collapses
in history. The government is also offering finders’ fees for
people bringing in jobs and tax breaks for executives moving to
the country, one of three euro members that sought an
international bailout during the European debt crisis.  Ireland is undertaking an “international charm
offensive,” Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said after former U.S.
President  Bill Clinton  hosted a meeting in  New York  on Feb. 9 to
drum up interest in Ireland among investors. Chinese Vice
President  Xi Jinping  this month visited the country.  Kenny said yesterday Ireland will hold a referendum to
ratify the European agreement on a new rescue fund.  Doing Business  “The further we are into the crisis the more you need to
come up with something a little bit more,” said  Austin Hughes ,
an economist at  KBC (KBC)  Bank Ireland in Dublin. “The various little
tasters that the government is offering help create an
impression of an economy that wants to do business.”  Ireland’s October 2020 bonds yield 6.81 percent, down from
a euro-era high of 13.8 percent on July 18, as the government
reassured investors that they would be repaid, in contrast to
the losses imposed on Greek bondholders.  Shatter has said using the inducement of residency has
worked in other countries. The U.S. offers visas for investors
with “substantial amounts of capital,” according to
documentation of the US immigration service, while Latvia and
Cyprus offer residency in exchange for real estate.  In Ireland, the program is set to encompass property
ultimately controlled by the National Asset Management Agency,
according to the Justice Ministry. The so-called bad bank, set
up to purge Ireland’s lenders of risky loans, had more than
1,000 assets listed for sale. Visas are also available for an
investment in an Irish company, a charity endowment, as well as
the specially created bond.  Five Years  The bond, which isn’t tradable, must be held by the visa
holder for a minimum of five years.  The government hasn’t yet set the coupon, the rate of
interest payable to bondholders. Buyers will be able to bring
family members with them, the Justice Ministry said. A spokesman
for the country’s debt agency declined to comment.  The government is also offering an income tax exemption on
30 percent of salaries between 75,000 euros and 500,000 euros
for workers who relocate to Ireland with their existing employer
in the next three years.  “The issue multinationals have faced over the last couple
of years is that because the  tax rate  has become punitive, it
isn’t attractive for employees to come to Ireland,” said Ronan
Colleran, managing director of Dublin-based headhunter  Accreate
Executive Search , who is advising clients on the program.  Luring Jobs  The government will also pay a fee of about 4,000 euros to
encourage people to attract overseas companies not already
targeted by the state. Irish unemployment tripled to an average
14.2 percent last year from 4.5 percent in 2007, as the economy
shrunk by about 15 percent over that period.  Similar programs have drawn controversy in the past. In
1998, Ireland scrapped a so-called passports-for-sale operation
on concern that it was potentially open to abuse. Within the
last 18 months, Latvian nationalists protested against the
granting of visas for investors in real estate, because of fear
that property would be sold to Russians. Latvia gained
independence from the former  Soviet Union  in 1991.  “It is very hard to create jobs in the domestic economy
with indigenous companies just given the difficulties that are
there, but I think they are doing as well as they possibly could
at the moment,” said Colleran. “Making a silk purse out of a
sow’s ear is probably what you would describe it as.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  