-- Ireland Told by EU It May Need More Budget Cuts to Meet Targets
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2012-02-29T14:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/ireland-told-by-eu-it-may-need-more-budget-cuts-to-meet-targets.html
Ireland’s government may need more
fiscal tightening in 2012 to meet budget targets, the European
Commission said in documents supplied to German lawmakers.  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  laid out 3.8 billion euros
($5.1 billion) worth of tax increases and spending cuts in
December as the Dublin-based government sought to narrow the
shortfall to 8.6 percent of gross domestic product in 2012.  “The growth outlook could continue to deteriorate
significantly,” the commission said in the documents obtained
by Bloomberg News, which were supplied to lawmakers by  Germany ’s
finance ministry. “A further deterioration of the macroeconomic
backdrop could require additional fiscal tightening later in the
year.”  The commission urged Ireland to reassess its deficit
forecasts later this year and detail how it will reach the
European Union’s 3 percent limit by 2015. It is part of the so-
called troika, which includes the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund , in charge of monitoring the Irish
economy after the nation sought a 67.5 billion-euro bailout in
November 2010.  Paul Bolger, a spokesman for the Irish Finance Ministry,
said he wouldn’t comment on “leaked documents.”  “The commission staff report is being considered by senior
officials from European Finance Ministries today and is due to
be published tomorrow,” he said in an e-mail.  Asset-Sales Plan  In November, the government drew criticism from opposition
lawmakers after a plan to raise the sales-tax rate was provided
to German lawmakers before being detailed in the Irish
parliament.  The commission said that an initial asset-sales plan
provided by the government in December hadn’t been sufficiently
ambitious and had been revised. The government said earlier this
month it will seek to raise as much as 3 billion euros from
selling assets.  The commission produced the report after its latest review
of Ireland in January, which found the government meeting
bailout targets. Ireland’s October 2020 bonds, regarded as the
benchmark, yielded 6.96 percent today, down from 9.1 percent at
the start of December. The yield on the equivalent Greek
security is 35 percent and on the Portuguese note it’s 13.6
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  