-- Irish Vote Gives Kenny Leverage to Seek Concessions on Bailout
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-02-29T14:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/irish-vote-gives-kenny-leverage-to-seek-concessions-on-bailout.html
Ireland’s decision to vote over the
European fiscal compact may offer Prime Minister Enda Kenny
leverage to seek additional concessions on its bailout program,
according to Bloxham Stockbrokers and Glas Securities.  “It’s important at this delicate stage in the euro-zone
crisis that there is a ‘yes’ vote from the Irish people and that
concessions be made by  Europe  to make sure it gets through,”
Liam Dunne, an analyst at Bloxham in Dublin, said today in a
note. “It does give the government some leverage.”  Ireland is negotiating with its bailout partners on steps
to re-engineer the cost of rescuing Anglo Irish Bank Corp., now
known as Irish Bank Resolution Corp., before a scheduled 3.1
billion-euro ($3.7 billion) payment by the state next month.
Irish voters rejected greater European integration in 2001 and
2008 votes before endorsing it in reruns.  “We would not rule out some form of carrot-and-stick
approach whereby some concessions are offered,” fixed-income
firm Glas said in a note.  Ireland is looking for help in the wake of the bailout of
Anglo Irish, once the country’s third-largest lender by assets.
The state is seeking to refinance about 30 billion euros of so-
called promissory notes used to rescue the bank on better terms
and over a longer period. The total bill for bailing out Anglo
Irish may be at least 48 billion euros including interest
payments.  Irish Deputy Prime Minister  Eamon Gilmore  told Dublin-based
broadcaster RTE yesterday that the government is making progress
in the talks, which are already “well advanced.”  ‘Negative Signal’  Ireland’s European Affairs Minister Lucinda Creighton said
today that a “no” vote would be a “very negative signal to
investors” in the country and put it in a “very difficult”
position.  Not everybody believes Ireland’s decision to hold a vote
will increase its bargaining power.  “I would be less convinced that the government has
additional bargaining power from this,” said  Jonathan Loynes ,
an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . “I would have
thought while this is still unclear and until the result is
known, the rest of the  euro zone  might be rather less likely to
make Ireland additional concessions.”  Kenny said he is “confident” the public will back the
vote after details about it are publicized. No date has been set
yet for the vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  