-- Israel Sees China Economic Ties Helping on Iran, Syria Views
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-29T10:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/israel-sees-china-ties-helping-on-iran-syria.html
Israeli Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said deepening trade ties with  China  could pay off by
helping leaders of the world’s second-biggest economy better
understand the Jewish state’s policies toward  Iran  and  Syria .  “China is a growing economic power,” Steinitz said today
in an interview in Beijing, where he traveled to sign a $300
million financial protocol aimed at boosting trade. “We do hope
that if we are able to improve economic ties and connections
between Israel and China, it will help us also to explain our
positions with regard to the Iranian nuclear threat, with regard
to the events in Syria.”  While Israeli exports to China have more than doubled
during the last two years, the level is “not enough yet,” said
Steinitz, 53. “It’s far from being enough.”  His push for greater economic ties comes as China, the
biggest buyer of Iranian oil, refuses to support international
sanctions over the Islamic republic’s nuclear program.  Israel 
says Iran intends to build atomic weapons and hasn’t ruled out
military strikes to prevent it, escalating tensions in a region
that holds 54 percent of global oil reserves.  Iran, which says its enrichment of uranium is only for
civilian energy purposes, refused last week to let United
Nations experts investigate a suspected nuclear-related military
base. The risk of a military conflict was highlighted the same
day when an Iranian general said his nation would consider pre-
emptive action if it is threatened.  ‘Important Part’  “Increasing trade and deepening economic ties with Israel
won’t have an immediate impact on China’s views toward issues
like Iran and Syria,” Ilan Maor, former Israeli consul to
 Shanghai  and vice president of the Israel- Asia  Chamber of
Commerce, said in a phone interview from Tel Aviv. “However, it
is an important part of building a relationship that will
eventually affect the way China listens to Israel on these
matters, maybe not tomorrow, but it won’t take 20 years.”  Steinitz, a member of the Likud Party, said he leaves
diplomatic discussions mainly to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu or Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman.  The Chinese government joined  Russia  this month in vetoing
a UN Security Council resolution supported by the U.S. and
Israel calling on Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad to cede power
over his crackdown on protests that have killed thousands. China
opposes trade restrictions against Iran and said sanctions on
its oil exports aren’t “constructive,” state-run Xinhua News
Agency reported Jan. 26, citing comments from the Ministry of
 Foreign Affairs .  Diplomatic Relations  Israel and China established full diplomatic relations in
1992. Israel is seeking to boost sales to fast-growing economies
such as  China (CNGDPYOY)  and  India  as Europe struggles with a debt crisis
and global trade slows. Exports account for about 40 percent of
Israel’s gross domestic product.  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  in October 2010
said the global economy’s “center of gravity” is moving to
Asia and that the region will dominate growth in the future. In
an interview last week, Fischer said “it’s too early to tell”
if the worst of the international economic crisis is over.  Israeli exports to China include electrical equipment,
precious stones, fertilizers and medical equipment. Chinese
exports to Israel include machinery, chemicals, apparel and
furniture.  Preferential Loans  The protocol Steinitz is signing will help exporters of
Israeli water technology for agriculture, Israel’s  Finance
Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement on Feb. 27. Israel will
provide $300 million in preferential government loans to China
for high-technology agricultural water conservation projects in
the provinces of Shaanxi, Gansu, Qinghai, Ningxia and Xinjiang,
according to a statement posted on the Chinese Finance
Ministry’s website today.  Steinitz said he’s “quite comfortable” with his
ministry’s forecast that the Israeli economy will expand 3.2
percent this year. At the same time,  Europe ’s debt crisis makes
it “very difficult to predict” how events will unfold,
especially with the risk of a partial or full collapse of the
euro zone, which would make it a “completely different game,”
he said.  Israel deserves a higher  credit rating  from Moody’s
Investors Service because its economy has recovered faster than
most developed nations since 2008 and the government has reduced
the proportion of debt to gross domestic product, Steinitz said,
recounting a meeting in  Jerusalem  with Moody’s economists
earlier this month. In addition, the discovery of natural gas
off the country’s coast will give the government “significant”
funds, he said. The company rates Israel at A1, the fifth-
highest investment grade, the same level as  South Korea  and the
 Czech Republic .  Steinitz visited China in May 2010 with Environmental
Protection Minister Gilad Erdan to help promote economic ties.
Erdan said at the time that Israeli companies have “endless”
possibilities to sell technology to China, specifically in the
areas of water recycling, desalination and solar power.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  