-- Italy’s Monti Sees Agreement on EU Firewalls: Interview
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-02-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/italy-s-monti-sees-agreement-on-eu-firewalls-interview.html
The following are comments by
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  made in an interview.  On whether he would serve a second term if asked by whatever
parties win elections next year:  “If I do with my colleagues in government our job very
well, I don’t think it’s very likely that I will be asked.”  On the need for Europe to reach an agreement to increase the
size and scope of its financial firewalls to stop debt-crisis
contagion:  “This topic is important. It will be reviewed by the
European Union in the course of the month of March. I believe
that size matters as well as the timing of its activation, if
needed, and also the governance rules because it has to be
mobilized quickly if there is a need. And of course, the better
the firewalls are from these three points of view, the least
likely it will be that use will be made of them.”  On Germany opting not to discuss the issue of firewalls at a
summit in Brussels:  “They didn’t say they don’t want to discuss this in March;
they prefer not to discuss this on the first of March. March
has, luckily enough, 31 days.”  So you’re confident about a deal to raise firewalls by the end
of March:  “I am confident, yes.”  On his statement that Germany needs to help lower interest rates
of nations that reach fiscal goals:  “This discussion about firewalls is a case in point.  Italy 
is now approaching this discussion in a more relaxed way than
might have been the case in November or December because I
believe that we are in a more comfortable position now. So it is
easier for us now to make the point that this serves the general
interest, and it is important that in this not brilliant phase
of the European economy, those efforts which are made by many of
our countries in terms of fiscal consolidation can be rewarded
by sizable declines in interest rates so that this creates some
slightly greater room for growth, both in the public sector
budget and also in the accounts of enterprises. These things are
happening; in the case of Italy they are indeed happening. If
the approach to firewalls will be constructive enough in  Europe ,
I believe we will all be in a better position to face any
further contagion effect or any resurgence of a crisis.”  On whether stronger firewalls will reduce the need for European
Central Bank special lending operations:  “Presumably yes, but I think it’s very important for
governments not to comment on what the ECB does in its wisdom
and in its autonomy. May I simply complement your analysis by
saying that the decline in interest rates recently has been no
doubt to a large extent the result of the ECB’s interventions
vis-à-vis the banks; but also, I think we can say, also of the
considerable progress in the budgetary consolidation efforts in
the countries like Italy.”  On what is still needed to prevent future contagion from the
debt crisis:  “One is the firewalls, but the other one is a real pillar
and that is growth. In the medium term it will not be a high
degree as required by the fiscal compact, a high degree of
fiscal budget discipline will not be sustainable unless there is
more growth than we are seeing now in Europe.  “For all the difficulties that the discussion on firewalls
may bring with it, it is certainly easier to put in place
firewalls than to increase the growth rate of the European
economy, but it’s very important also to have growth finally
also because it’s very important to complete the culture of
transformation that we have been having in Europe thanks to the
euro and to the Maastricht Treaty, and it’s important that all
our public opinions become persuaded that a balanced budget is
not inconsistent with growth on the contrary, in the longer
term, it’s a requirement for growth. It’s a necessary condition
but it’s not a sufficient condition.  “To have growth we have to have a sound fiscal environment
in place but all the other weapons for growth including, which
is something I very much appreciate, extracting more energies
for growth from the integration process of the European economy,
hence the single market.”  What if yield spreads begin rising again:  “That would not be pleasant. I don’t think it is likely.
But it may always happen. The unpredictability of spreads is not
negligible. But we see now in the case of Italy a steady,
although gradual decline in the last several weeks. I don’t see
honestly any reasons why this course should change.”  On the letter signed by 12 euro region nations encouraging the
region to adopt more policies to spur economic growth:  “If we look at the geography behind the signatures below
the letter, it’s not a matter of south or north. I think all of
Europe is interested in now focusing more on growth, and I
believe that if some countries do not appear as signatories to
this letter, this does not mean in the least that they are less
interested in growth, but the point I have been making is that
if, say, in the case of  Greece , we had not come to an agreement
on the second package, this might have brought a brutal outcome
for Greece; this might have generated contagion effects flowing
to Spain, Italy, in spite of the good progress being made by
these countries; and this might have created angst or backlash
against discipline. Discipline to me is extremely important,
just as growth, but also discipline we should have not a short
term approach but a slightly more long view. And it is important
that discipline be cultivated in a persistent manner. For
example, I think it would be very detrimental to have again a
repetition of what was seen in Europe in the early 2000s when
actors concentrated their efforts to reach the 3 percent; then
we saw, of all countries, we saw Germany and  France  suddenly no
longer inclined to keep that discipline; in fact, they brought
down the stability pact and it took 8 or 9 years to rebuild
it.”  On comments by German political leaders about Europe now being
in a better position to withstand a Greek default:  “When I heard the statements, I don’t remember whether it
was Minister Schaeuble or others. At any rate it was more than
one personality saying it a few weeks ago that thanks to
progress made by Italy and Spain we could all in Europe be more
reassured that whatever may have happened to Greece would not
have triggered a contagious crisis. I always responded I don’t
believe that anybody could be sure of this because it would be a
rather unpredictable scenario and sequence of events. Better not
to do the experiment.  “It was in that context that I made the comment that there
might be a backlash in terms of public opinion that due to a
lack of an agreement on Greece, we had seen the spreads in case
of Italy and  Spain  to go up again to the sky, that would
discourage our domestic public opinions from the notion that
persistent discipline will bring rewards.”  On whether investors should be concerned that an agreement for
Greek bondholders to accept writedowns on their debt will be
applied to other countries:  “I think the leaders who invented the PSI, the private
sector involvement, have recently been very clear in underlining
that this was a once for all application of this concept; so I
don’t think that the markets would expect something similar to
happen in other cases.”  On the possibility of falling bond yields and gains from  tax
evasion , leading to a smaller-than-forecasts deficit this year:  “As to windfall gains as you call them, out of a strongly
enhanced effort of fighting tax evasion, there’s more than
windfall perhaps; it’s really calling the Italian people to a
new attitude vis-à-vis taxation, calling them through persuasion
and through more effective instruments than mere persuasion. We
have adopted a very, very prudent attitude and we want to
continue in this very prudent attitude. The Italian government
already, before I was appointed prime minister, had committed
with the European Union to a balanced budget by 2013 which is a
couple of years earlier than the other EU member states. And
that’s a very tough constraint, but we’ll stick to it, we think
it is even healthy.  “So, we will certainly not indulge in decreasing the
pressure toward budgetary consolidation if we see initial
results; but certainly, the more interest rates come down, the
more tax evasion is brought under control, the more objective,
very ambitious and already realistic of a balanced budget in
2013, will be felt to be credible even by the most skeptical
market investors. And we expect this to generate an increasingly
positive view about Italian risk and investment in Italy.”  On why his deficit reduction plan relied more on revenue
increases than spending cuts:  “I think cutting costs is more difficult everywhere
relative to tax increases, but I think this was particularly the
case not so much because of any Italian specificity, but because
of the emergency in which we had to act: only 17 days after our
oath of office, this government adopted a decree law with all
the budgetary containment measures. And it’s not easy in such a
short time to go to a surgical incision of spending; now of
course, we have going on a spending review, which will deliver
more on the spending side of the slate. And I should also add
that because we were very prudent in incorporating 7 percent or
so  interest rate  forecast in the budget, what we come out
exposed will be in fact a decline on the expenditure side in
terms of interest rate spending.”  On what he wants from talks to overhaul the country’s labor
laws:  “The final objective to which we will stick is to increase
the competitiveness of the Italian economy, which implies a
higher productivity growth, which implies more efficiency, which
implies more labor mobility and which is consistent, if we are
able to modernize labor market and our welfare system, more
labor mobility will still be consistent with a reasonably high
degree of social protection but exercised in a way more similar
to the Nordic cases in Europe, that is, through the protection
of the individual workers but not of the individual jobs often
made obsolete by technical or productive evolution. And we will
be really demanding in terms of what the final objective will
be. I’m confident that this decisive step of modernization of
the Italian economy is by now understood by public opinion and
by the unions. Of course as a last resort, we want to keep our
options in tact if there is a need to go to parliament and
introduce change, but I’m confident that we will have the
backing of the social partners.”  On whether his economic changes aim to change Italy’s culture
that will require a generation:  “It’s exactly that: a generational change that we are
kick-starting. So we will not complete a generational change,
that is a change which normally requires a generation, in 12 or
15 months. But it’s important to kick-start it. But is it not
something very unusual to have in place a government that has
been demanded by the political parties, in support of which the
political parties are abstaining some of their past practices?
They are helping us to help them and the country to deploy a new
approach to public decision making. I believe Italian citizens
are perceiving this. I believe also that elsewhere in the world
that it is perceived that Italy is shifting gear toward a
somewhat less Byzantine and non-transparent way of decision
making. Some people even say this is parliamentary democracy at
its best because we put proposals to parliament, there is much
less ex-ante discouragement by this or that party.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.ne  