-- ITV Profit Beats Analyst Estimates on Sales From Paid TV
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-02-29T09:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/itv-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-after-online-tv-agreements.html
ITV Plc (ITV)  climbed the most in almost a
year in  London  as the U.K.’s biggest commercial broadcaster
reported 2011 profit that beat estimates after expanding
services that rely less on advertising.  Profit, excluding financing and tax adjustments and other
one-time items, rose to 7.9 pence a share in 2011 from 6.4 pence
a year earlier, the London-based company said in a statement
today. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey had estimated 7.1 pence.  Chief Executive Officer Adam Crozier is reducing the
company’s dependence on advertising as growth in the market
slows. ITV expects to spend 25 million pounds ($40 million) this
year on projects including development of online content and
digital channels, according to the statement. ITV reported 43
percent of its sales came from non-advertising sources last
year, compared with about 40 percent in 2010.  “The increase in non-advertising revenues of 93 million
pounds, driven by our studios and online businesses, is clear
evidence of progress in rebalancing the company and our ability
to grow new revenue streams,” Crozier said in the statement.
“We remain cautious on the market outlook for 2012 but we
expect to outperform the market for the full year.”  ITV climbed as much as 8.9 percent to 87.70 pence, the
biggest intraday advance since March 2, and was 8.8 percent
higher at 87.55 pence as of 9:11 a.m. The  shares  have gained 28
percent this year.  Economic Outlook  Sales rose 3.7 percent to 2.14 billion pounds. Analysts
estimated 2.11 billion pounds in a Bloomberg survey. The
company, whose network plays shows including “Coronation
Street” and “Downton Abbey,” struck deals with  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s
Lovefilm to put more content online. ITV will also start
offering online news, similar to a service offered by the
British Broadcasting Corp., in the next few weeks, Crozier said.  Non-advertising revenue is expected to decline 2 percent in
the first quarter, the company said. ITV is “cautious about the
economic outlook” and expects advertising sales to outperform
the industry for the full year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  