-- James Murdoch Steps Down as Chairman of News Corp.’s U.K. Unit
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-02-29T21:20:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/james-murdoch-resigns-post-at-news-international-amid-u-k-hacking-scandal.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  Deputy Chief Operating
Officer James Murdoch stepped down as executive chairman of News
International almost eight months after the U.K. publishing unit
was rocked by a phone-hacking scandal.  Murdoch, 39, who has moved to News Corp.’s New York
headquarters, will assume a variety of “essential corporate
leadership mandates” focusing on  pay television  and
international operations, his 80-year-old father Rupert, who is
News Corp.’s chairman and chief executive officer, said in a
statement.  The younger Murdoch already handed News International’s CEO
position to  Tom Mockridge  in July, after reports of voice-mail
interception by its tabloid journalists in the U.K. prompted
News Corp. to drop a bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,
the pay TV company in which  James Murdoch  is still chairman.
U.K. lawmakers are preparing a report about Murdoch’s role in
the scandal and may publish their findings in coming weeks.  “James was itching to step down, he is well known to be no
fan of the newspapers,” said Claire Enders, founder and CEO of
Enders Analysis in London, who advises clients including the
U.K. government. “I am sure the board understands James wants
to leave and they are much more protective of him now.”  Murdoch was given the deputy COO job in March 2011, with
News Corp. announcing plans to move  Rupert Murdoch ’s youngest
son, to its headquarters in New York. By July, News
International faced phone-hacking allegations against the News
of the World, leading to the tabloid’s closure. Both Murdochs
appeared before U.K. lawmakers to explain their role.  Time to Go  “Over time, it’s become clear that it was in the best
interests of the company and James that he step down,” said
Lawrence Haverty, a portfolio manager at Gamco Investors Inc. in
Rye,  New York , which owns shares of News Corp.  Murdoch has completed his move to New York and has no plans
to step down from any of his other roles, according to a person
close to the company who asked not to be named because the plans
are private. He held onto his position as chairman of BSkyB,
Britain’s biggest pay-TV company, last November amid criticism
from some shareholders for him to resign.  The CTW Investment group, a fund representing unions and
pension holdings, repeated its call today for James Murdoch’s
resignation from the boards of News Corp. and Sotheby’s. The
group said it sent a letter to the chairman of Sotheby’s,
citing the company’s corporate governance policy which
requires a director whose occupation has changed to resign.  Father’s Backing  “He has demonstrated leadership and continues to create
great value at Star TV,  Sky Deutschland (SKYD) ,  Sky Italia , and
BSkyB,” Rupert Murdoch said in the statement.  James Murdoch was absent when his father flew to London
earlier this month to help start a Sunday edition of the Sun
tabloid. Ten Sun employees had been arrested as part of a police
investigation into improper payments to public officials.  The Sunday edition of the Sun tabloid fills a void left by
the News of the World, the 168-year-old newspaper that was shut
last July after reporters were found to be hacking into sources’
voice mails for stories. The company’s internal investigation
into hacking at News of the World eventually widened to
encompass News Corp.’s other U.K. titles.  A separate judge-led inquiry, formed by Prime Minister
 David Cameron , was also started because of the News of the World
revelations to look into media ethics and practices.  “If News International wanted to move on and start afresh
then his presence was always going to be a problem for them,”
Culture Committee Chairman  John Whittingdale  said on  Sky News .
“They want to demonstrate that they are making a fresh start
with fresh personnel. That doesn’t necessarily mean that James
Murdoch was guilty.”  News Corp.  rose  0.3 percent to $19.86 in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading at 3:45 p.m. New York time. The stock had gained
11 percent this year before today.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  