-- JPMorgan Joins Goldman in Disclosing Threat of SEC Enforcement
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e ,   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-02-29T16:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/jpmorgan-joins-goldman-in-disclosing-threat-of-sec-action-over-mbs-sales.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  are among banks warned by
federal regulators that they may face civil claims tied to sales
of mortgage-backed securities.  JPMorgan said in a filing today that the Securities and
Exchange Commission warned in January it may bring complaints
stemming from two investigations into mortgage securitizations.
Goldman Sachs and Wells Fargo also said yesterday they received
so-called Wells notices from the SEC, warning that agency staff
may recommend enforcement.  “It’s a big deal given the level of anticipation that has
been in the markets about whether there would be further
actions,” said  Jacob Frenkel , a former SEC lawyer now with
Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy & Ecker PA in Potomac,  Maryland .
“These cases were complicated and time-consuming and the
government has said for a long time that its investigations were
continuing.”  The SEC has issued such notices to multiple banks in probes
focusing on mortgage securities, said people with knowledge of
the matter who asked not to be identified because the
communications weren’t public.  Almost four years after mounting mortgage defaults prompted
unprecedented government bailouts of the financial system,
regulators are still examining how banks packaged and sold home
loans to investors. The SEC is looking for evidence that firms
failed to disclose underlying credit weaknesses in mortgage
pools and delinquencies, Jason Anthony, special counsel for the
agency’s structured products unit, said last week. He didn’t
identify companies under scrutiny.  Goldman Sachs  JPMorgan said one inquiry focuses on due diligence and
disclosures in two securitizations by a subsidiary. The other
probe relates to “settlements of claims against originators”
involving loans included in securitizations handled by Bear
Stearns Cos., which JPMorgan acquired in 2008, according to the
filing.  Goldman Sachs got a Wells notice Feb. 24 relating to
disclosures for a late-2006 offering of $1.3 billion in subprime
residential mortgage-backed securities, the company said in an
annual report. The New York-based firm said it “will be making
a submission to, and intends to engage in a dialogue with, the
SEC staff seeking to address their concerns.”  Fair Lending  Goldman Sachs paid $550 million in 2010 to settle SEC
claims that it misled investors on a mortgage-linked investment
in 2007. In that case, the company said it made a “mistake” in
omitting disclosures.  Wells Fargo, which revealed the SEC’s warning in an annual
report yesterday, said the government has been examining whether
it properly described facts and risks in offering documents.  The notices show SEC enforcement staff concluded that
violations occurred, Frenkel said.  John Nester , a spokesman for
the agency, declined to comment on the investigations.  Government agencies are also looking at whether San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo may have violated fair-lending laws
or other regulations when making home loans, the firm said.  The SEC said in January it will help form a state and
federal working group that will share information and coordinate
inquiries involving residential mortgage-backed securities.  “We already have issued scores of subpoenas, analyzed more
than approximately 25 million pages of documents, dozens and
dozens of witnesses, and worked with our industry experts to
analyze the terms of these deals and the accuracy of the
disclosures made to investors,” the agency’s enforcement
director,  Robert Khuzami , said at the time.  Wells Fargo was among five mortgage servicers that agreed
this month to a $25 billion settlement of state and federal
probes into shoddy foreclosure practices. The deal allowed
regulators to continue pursuing the industry over claims
regarding the packaging of loans into securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 