-- Judi Dench Gets Call-Center Job, Relocates to Jaipur: Review
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-02-29T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/judi-dench-gets-call-center-job-relocates-to-jaipur-hotel-farah-nayeri.html
“The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel”
is a creaky Indian guesthouse that seven British retirees check
into as they go looking for a better life.  They end up finding themselves in the movie that bears the
same name as the hotel, starring two great dames of the British
stage,  Judi Dench  and  Maggie Smith .  It all starts off amusingly, with director  John Madden 
introducing the characters one by one. Dench plays newly widowed
Evelyn, who has just inherited her husband’s hidden debts and
quibbles all day long with Indian call-center operators
demanding to speak to the (dead) accountholder.  Smith plays a retired, xenophobic housekeeper called Muriel
who’s cooped up in a hospital and is demanding an English
doctor. She’s about to fly to India, of all places, for hip
surgery.  The lone married couple in the group are Douglas and Jean
(Bill Nighy and Penelope Wilton). They’ve sunk their savings
into their daughter’s new venture, and now can only afford a
cramped house with senior-citizen fittings.  Two desperate singletons also make the Jaipur journey.
Norman (Ronald Pickup) is a speed-dating Lothario who prays for
just one more night of hot sex. Madge (Celia Imrie) is an
attractive granny craving a new man.  The other unattached guest is Graham, a high-court judge
who just retired after a lifetime of success and unhappiness,
and is heading back to the  India  of his childhood.  Oddball Legends  Somehow, the seven oddballs are all hoodwinked by publicity
for the Jaipur guesthouse. There they all are, waiting to board
their plane. The sight of so many stage legends sitting wearily
in an airport lounge is quite something.  The pensioners are greeted on arrival by goofy Sonny Kapoor
-- played by Dev Patel, the young star of “Slumdog
Millionaire,” who is now taller though still boyish-looking.
Sonny has converted his late father’s dusty inn into a
boarding house for the “elderly and beautiful.”  In the rough and tumble of Jaipur, lost loves and new loves
are found, relationships reshaped, and lives transformed.  Dench’s character Evelyn, an honest do-gooder, takes an
instant shine to the subcontinent, and gets a call-center job
training operators on how to address the elderly. Muriel -- who
was dumped by the British family she served for a lifetime --
warms to the natives and settles into the hotel.  Grumpy Resister  The only one resisting the urge to open up is grumpy,
married Jean (Wilton). As the domineering wife forever holed up
in her hotel room, she turns out to be one of the truer-to-life
characters in the film. Wilton expertly conveys her bitterness
and sarcasm, and delivers a strong performance.  Everyone else turns into a marshmallow on arrival. Even
Muriel, who never stopped sniping at foreigners in her
wheelchair back home, is miraculously mollified by the
experience of watching an untouchable woman sweep the courtyard.  The film’s producers have thrown together a couple of
winning formulas. They’ve combined the actor, atmosphere, and
setting of “Slumdog Millionaire” with a cast you might find in
a Merchant-Ivory colonial saga.  On paper, it sounds like a fine recipe. In practice, it
ends up being mushy and sentimental in a way middle-class
Britons aren’t -- not even in old age, and not even when
loneliness bites. Ol Parker’s script and Madden’s directing lead
even seasoned thespians like Smith and Nighy to go off key.  On the plus side, this is a rare movie with a cast of
sixty- and even seventy-somethings. The famously ageist  film
industry  is finally taking pains to tell a story of retirement
and old age. Shifting demographics may explain it.  Beyond that, there are charming and occasionally even side-
splitting moments when the better lines of dialogue are
delivered, deadpan, by the cast.  The film is worth seeing. Just don’t expect it to be as
good as the actors in it can be. Rating: **1/2.  “The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel” is out in the U.K. and
Ireland and is set to be released in the U.S. on May 4.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri at  farahn@bloomberg.net  or.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 