-- KanAm to Liquidate $5.3 Billion Property Mutual Fund
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-02-29T15:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/kanam-to-liquidate-5-3-billion-property-fund-after-failing-to-sell-assets.html
KanAm Grund KAG will liquidate its
3.92 billion-euro ($5.3 billion)  Grundinvest fund , making it the
largest German mutual property fund to be wound up after failing
to raise enough money to meet investor withdrawals.  Grundinvest, which suspended redemptions in May 2010, had
two years to sell assets and raise sufficient cash to return to
investors. The fund will now be liquidated and money returned by
the end of 2016, Frankfurt-based asset manager KanAm said in a
statement today. About 200 million euros will be paid back in
the weeks ahead, it said.  The liquidation “leaves little doubt that German open-
ended fund disposal activity will accelerate in the mid-term,”
said Iryna Pylypchuk, an associate director of research at
property adviser CBRE Group Inc. who’s based in  London .  KanAm cited  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and concern
among German savers about investment in the country’s mutual
property funds for its inability to reopen Grundinvest. Since
closing, the fund sold or agreed to sell 1 billion euros of
property in  Canada , Europe and the U.S. It owns 51 properties in
nine countries with an estimated value of 6.3 billion euros,
according to the statement.  KanAm hired Knight Frank LLP last year to sell the fund’s
four London properties, which are valued at about 1 billion
euros. Grundinvest owns the European Bank of Reconstruction &
Development’s headquarters, Thomson Reuters Plc’s base in  Canary
Wharf ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s U.K. headquarters on London Wall and a
building at 90 High Holborn. None of them have been sold.  Redemption Crisis  Germany ’s 85.2 billion-euro real-estate mutual fund
industry may be facing the biggest crisis in its 50-year
history. Thirteen of the 44 funds, which own 29 percent of the
industry’s assets, are liquidating or have suspended
redemptions, according to Frankfurt-based  BVI Bundesverband
Investment & Asset Management .  When the credit crisis started to escalate in 2008, a
scramble to withdraw money exposed a flaw in real estate mutual
funds that own properties directly. While investors are allowed
to withdraw money daily, the funds hold assets that usually take
months to sell.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken
AB (SEBA) , or SEB, also face May deadlines to reopen funds for
redemptions.  Potsdamer Platz  SEB’s asset management unit said Feb. 8 that it was working
“intensely” on reopening the  SEB ImmoInvest (S3EA)  fund. The bank is
trying to sell a 50 percent stake in Potsdamer Platz, a
collection of 19 buildings in Berlin valued at 1.46 billion
euros that includes the Grand Hyatt hotel and the Arkaden
shopping center.  “The market environment may not be easier after KanAm
Grund´s decision, but we are focused firmly on our goal of re-
opening,” the company said by e-mail. “Currently various
property sales are being considered simultaneously, so that we
still see a chance to generate sustainable liquidity.”  Credit Suisse said earlier this month that it’s in the
process of selling 850 million euros of properties owned by its
 CS Euroreal (C6JA)  fund and will decide in April whether it can reopen
the fund. Credit Suisse said the fund currently has almost 1.6
billion euros available.  “We are confident that we will further increase liquidity
for a sustainable reopening of  CS Euroreal (C6JA)  through further
assert sales,” Karl-Heinz Heuss, managing director of Credit
Suisse Asset Management Immobilien KAG, said in an e-mailed
statement today. No one from SEB was available to comment.  Another three funds run by affiliates of  Axa SA (CS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc must also sell assets this year to
cover redemptions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 