-- Kenya’s Shilling Falls for 4th Day on Interest Rate Speculation
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-02-29T13:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/kenya-s-shilling-falls-for-4th-day-on-interest-rate-speculation.html
Kenya’s shilling fell for a fourth
day, headed for the lowest close in a week, on speculation
slowing inflation will enable the central bank to cut  interest
rates , reducing the currency’s yield advantage.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy declined 0.2
percent to 82.90 per dollar by 2:54 p.m. in Nairobi, the
capital. A close at that level will be the weakest since Feb.
22, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kenyan inflation slowed for the third straight month in
February, giving the central bank a reason to lower its key
lending rate from a record high. The inflation rate declined to
16.7 percent this month from 18.3 percent in January, the Kenya
National Bureau of Statistics said in an e-mailed statement
today.  “We maintain our view that the Monetary Policy Committee
will reduce the Central Bank rate by 100 bps at its meeting on 6
March,” Phumelele Mbiyo, a Nairobi-based analyst at Standard
Bank Group Ltd., wrote in e-mailed comments. The bank “would
seek to strike a balance between stimulating economic activity
and protecting the shilling.”  Kenya ’s government has asked the central bank to prevent
the shilling from further appreciating because it’s reducing
revenue for exporters, Reuters reported yesterday. The shilling
shouldn’t be allowed to gain beyond 82 per dollar, acting
Finance Minister Njeru Githae was reported as saying.  Tanzania’s shilling appreciated 0.6 percent at 1,591 per
dollar, while  Uganda ’s shilling declined 0.6 percent to 2,379
per dollar, the weakest level on a closing basis since Jan. 23.  -- Editors: Dulue Mbachu, Ben Holland  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  