-- Kia Best Ride for Automaker Shareholders: Riskless Return
-- B y   A l a n   M i r a b e l l a
-- 2012-02-29T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/kia-is-best-ride-for-auto-company-shareholders-riskless-return.html
Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , once an underdog
in an industry dominated by  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , is giving investors a smoother ride with the best risk-
adjusted returns in the past five years.  The BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING shows Kia provided a
risk-adjusted return of 9.2 percent in the five years through
yesterday, the most in the  Bloomberg World Auto Manufacturers
Index (BWAUTM)  of 22 car companies.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , the larger
affiliate of Seoul-based Kia, rose 4.8 percent in the same
period by that measure, the second-most in the index. Kia and
Hyundai’s shares had the lowest volatility among automakers
based in the  emerging markets , and Kia posted higher absolute
returns than all of its rivals.  Kia, maker of the Optima sedan, and Hyundai have challenged
Japanese and American carmakers by improving quality, design and
fuel efficiency, which helped spur share price increases of 32
percent and 23 percent, respectively, in 2011. The South Korean
companies have expanded beyond their local market and increased
their combined U.S. market share to a record 8.9 percent in
2011, according to auto-researcher Edmunds.com. Robust U.S.
demand will drive more stock gains for the companies this year,
KDB Daewoo Securities analyst Michael Yun and Shin Young
Securities analyst Hyung-sil Lee said in reports last month.  “You can correlate their success in the showroom in the
U.S. with their stock performance,”  Kevin Tynan , an auto
analyst with Bloomberg Industries, said in a telephone
interview.  Lower Volatility  The risk-adjusted return is calculated by dividing total
return by volatility, or the degree of daily price-swing
variation, giving a measure of income per unit of risk. The
returns aren’t annualized. Higher volatility means an asset’s
price can swing dramatically in a short period of time,
increasing the prospect for unexpected losses.  Hyundai, maker of the Sonata and Elantra sedans, is Kia’s
largest shareholder, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Both companies have the same chairman,  Chung Mong Koo .  Kia and Hyundai’s shares had lower volatility than Chinese
automakers  BYD Co. (1211) ,  Dongfeng Motor Group Co. (489)  and  SAIC Motor
Corp. (600104) , and  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  of  India . While both South Korean
carmakers had bigger price swings than companies such as
Germany’s  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ,  Japan ’s  Honda Motor Co. (7267) 
and Toyota, risk-adjusted returns for Kia and Hyundai benefited
from a higher total return.  Tata Motors  Kia and Hyundai had half the price swings of Mumbai-based
Tata Motors, the most volatile stock in the rankings, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Smaller-than-average price swings for automakers such as
Toyota came at the cost of lower returns, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Toyota, which had the worst returns when
adjusted for volatility after the measure declined 1.5 percent
over the past five years, also had the poorest share
performance. Toyota fell 55 percent over the past five years.  Renault SA (RNO) ,  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) ,  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  and Honda
rounded out the bottom five performers for risk-adjusted
returns, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The U.S. economic recovery, price-conscious consumers and
weak European and Asian sales roiled auto stocks last year,
increasing price swings. The Bloomberg World automakers index
fell 21 percent in 2011, the worst return since 2008, when it
slid 47 percent.  Volatile Auto Stocks  “While volatility can create opportunity, the inherent
cyclical nature of the  auto industry  appears to make investors
overreact,”  Efraim Levy , an analyst for S&P Capital Equity IQ
in New York, said in a telephone interview. “In recent years,
additional pressures such as the bankruptcy of major players
including GM exacerbated the situation.”  Kia gained 19 percent to 68,500 won in the 12 months
through Feb. 28. Hyundai is up 17 percent to 208,500 won.  Kia’s share of domestic and international markets and its
revenue have grown at a “somewhat faster pace” than Hyundai,
according to a Feb. 23 report from Standard & Poor’s credit
analyst Sangyun Han in  Hong Kong .  Kia and Hyundai’s stock gains may be limited as they face
more competition from automakers galvanized to win back buyers.
Signs also point to slower car sales growth in the U.S. and a
weaker market in  Europe .  Slower Sales  That and efforts by competitors to win back market share
may limit growth for both companies in coming years. Global auto
sales may decline 3 percent this year as demand ebbs from the
U.S. and  China  after two years of increases totaling 17 percent,
according to estimates from Tynan of Bloomberg Industries.  In January, Kia forecast that sales volume will rise 9.5
percent in 2012, compared with 19 percent last year.  “It’s easier to come from behind,” Jessica Caldwell, a
senior analyst with Edmunds.com of  Santa Monica ,  California ,
said in an interview. “It’s harder to stay there. They not only
have been noticed by consumers but by competitors. You can bet
Honda, Ford and Toyota aren’t going to be sitting back and
letting them take their customers.”  Part of Hyundai’s strategy will be to press ahead in
developing markets, Frank Ahrens, director of global public
relations for  Hyundai Motor (2741356) , said in an e-mail.  “Before the term BRIC became fashionable, Hyundai launched
a global management plan to establish manufacturing plants in
the world’s major emerging economies,” Ahrens said.  ‘Long Way’  Scott McKee, a spokesman for Kia’s U.S. sales division in
Irvine, California, said the company is “thrilled with the
success we’ve had, but we still have a long way to go, in terms
of market share.”  Kia and Hyundai have benefited by offering stylish models
that appealed to price-conscious consumers, said Levy of S&P.
Hyundai and Kia’s 100,000-mile, 10-year warranty and Toyota’s
safety issues also helped. Toyota recalled millions of cars and
light trucks for flaws linked to unintended acceleration.  Hyundai’s  gross margin  in the latest quarter was 25.8
percent, meaning they were able to turn every $100 of sales into
$25.8 in profits after subtracting certain costs, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the best performance after
 Scania AB. (SCVB)  Kia’s gross margin was 24.5 percent, compared with a
median of 18.9 percent for the group, the data show.  Hyundai and Kia increased average transaction prices by 14
percent and 10 percent, respectively, last year from 2006,
according to Edmunds.com. Hyundai’s average customer incentive,
which includes cash paid back to customers and financing deals,
fell 41 percent to $881 last year from 2006. Kia’s declined 32
percent to $1,473.  ‘Pricing Power’  “That’s a good sign that buyers are gaining more
confidence in these brands,” Tynan said. “They’ve got pricing
power.”  Hyundai, legendary in the 1980s for rust-ridden clunkers,
ranks highest this year among 33 brands in customer retention,
beating Ford, Honda, Mercedes, Lexus and Cadillac, according to
a survey by J.D. Power & Associates of Westlake Village,
California. Kia was No. 5. The study surveyed 117,000 new
vehicle buyers and lessees last year and was issued on Jan. 11.
Hyundai’s Elantra won North American Car of Year at the Detroit
auto show in January.  “There’s lots of room for us to grow,”  John Krafcik ,
chief executive officer of Hyundai’s U.S. sales unit, said in a
Feb. 3 interview in Las Vegas. “We’re still a relatively small
player in this market.”  Krafcik said Hyundai is sticking to the long view the
company has taken since exporting its first car to the U.S. in
1986. Hyundai’s market share gains in the U.S. over the past 25
years were extremely slow, he said.  “We just for the first time in 2011 delivered a market
share of over 5 percent,” he said. “We’re not looking as much
at maximizing next year’s or this year’s sales opportunities as
we are building a foundation for future growth,” Krafcik said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Mirabella in  New York  at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  