-- Knicks’ First Harvard Man Gets Posthumous Fame From Jeremy Lin
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-02-29T05:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/knicks-first-harvard-man-gets-posthumous-fame-via-jeremy-lin-phenomenon.html
Jeremy Lin’s basketball skills were
known to the Class of 1947 at Grandview Heights High School near
Columbus, Ohio, long before he led the resurgence of the  New
York Knicks .  A member of that class,  Ed Smith , was the last Harvard
University graduate before Lin to play in the  National
Basketball Association , suiting up for the Knicks in 1953-54.
Lin, a second-year player who twice was cut by other teams, is
set to start his 12th game at point guard for the Knicks
tonight, one more contest than Smith played in an NBA career
shortened by U.S. Army service and a broken hand.  Smith, who died in 1998 from cancer at age 69, has been
linked through Crimson ties in news stories to Lin, who is the
first Chinese- or Taiwanese-American to play in the NBA. Smith’s
name also has been shown in graphics during Lin’s nationally
televised games, delighting his family and keeping alive the
memory of a man who barely scratched the pro basketball record
books more than half a century ago.  “It started appearing as soon as Jeremy was being
considered for the NBA as of two years ago,” 75-year-old  Terry
Smith  said in a telephone interview after his older brother was
among the discussion topics last week at a monthly high-school
reunion luncheon. “I think he would have been a little
embarrassed.”  Smith, a 6-foot-6 forward, went to Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Harvard on an academic scholarship,
graduating in 1951. He was drafted twice that year: by the
Knicks with the NBA’s sixth pick and by the Army, where he
served until 1953.  Military Basketball  He played basketball in the Army, and Terry Smith said he
recalled his brother facing a squad from Lockbourne Air Force
Base in Lockbourne, Ohio, that was coached by future New York
Yankees owner  George Steinbrenner . Steinbrenner, a lieutenant,
was athletic coordinator at Lockbourne, which is now
Rickenbacker Air Force Base, according to MilitaryTimes.com,
which reports on the U.S. armed forces.  Smith made his NBA debut in 1953, joining a team coached by
Joe Lapchick and a roster that included future Hall of Fame
coach Al McGuire, All-Star Carl Braun and Ernie Vandeweghe, the
father of former NBA player Kiki Vandeweghe.  Smith was limited to 11 games after breaking his hand. He
underwent surgery and later was hospitalized because it became
infected, according to Terry Smith.  “At some point the surgeon told him it would be risky to
play any more ball,” the younger brother said. “Not that it
ever stopped him.”  Invited to Camp  Smith was invited to training camp the following season
before being cut, ending his  NBA career  with 28 points and 26
rebounds. He played several more years for local professional
teams in  Ohio  while also holding down a day job.  “Eddie was just an all-around good athlete; he was an end
on the football team, I believe a catcher on the baseball team
and just a fantastic basketball player,” Jack Lenhart, Smith’s
high-school teammate and close friend, said in a telephone
interview. “It was a treat to watch him.”  Smith worked at International Business Machines Corp. for
27 years before retiring at 55, according to his wife, Mayme
Smith.  “Ed was never a braggart,” she said in a telephone
interview. “When people asked where he went to college I think
he just said ‘East.’”  Resuscitated Season  Lin’s promotion to starting point guard has resuscitated
the Knicks’ season, leading the team to an 8-3 record as
television ratings and ticket prices on the secondary market
have soared.  “I don’t really know much about him, to be honest, but I
have heard about him a number of times,” Lin, 23, said of Smith
after the Knicks’ practice yesterday in Tarrytown,  New York . “A
lot of respect to him and what he’s done, but I’m still worried
about making sure that I’m in the NBA and I accomplish what I
want to accomplish.”  Lin has deflected praise toward teammates and coaches, a 
humble philosophy that Smith also shared regarding his own pro 
career.  “Most people didn’t even know Ed played in the NBA,”
Terry Smith said.  In March 1951, Smith had his first contest at Madison
Square Garden, an East-West College All-Star Game in front of
14,000 fans.  “I thought I was going to be nervous, but I wasn’t,” he
 told the Harvard Crimson  newspaper. “It didn’t really make much
difference.”  While it’s a different version of the Garden that now
stands in  Manhattan , Lin also has played fearlessly in front of
New York basketball fans, averaging 22.4 points, 8.8 assists and
four rebounds per game as a starter. The Knicks, 17-18 on the
season, host the Cleveland Cavaliers tonight.  “He absolutely would have been impressed,” said Terry
Smith about how his brother would have viewed Lin. “I think he
would have liked his whole story.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 