-- Kodak Seeks Court Approval to Get Out of Nine Agreements
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-02-29T23:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/kodak-seeks-court-approval-to-get-out-of-nine-agreements.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , the bankrupt
photography pioneer, wants to terminate nine contracts including
agreements with the PGA Tour Inc., a unit of  CC Media Holdings
Inc. (CCMO)  and a unit of  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI)   The company, looking to cut costs while in bankruptcy, said
the price tag of keeping the contracts outweigh any benefits
they may provide.  “The contracts are not a source of potential value for the
estates or creditors,” the company said in court papers filed
yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. Kodak didn’t
disclose how much it spends on the contracts.  Kodak won court approval earlier this month to end its
sponsorship agreement for the naming rights to the Los Angeles
theater that hosts the annual Academy Awards show.  The company entered into a “six-year, multimillion
dollar” agreement with the PGA Tour in December 2007, according
to a company  statement . The agreement included corporate
hospitality and Kodak branding on scoreboards.  The photography pioneer announced in December that it was
extending its marketing partnership with the  PGA tour  through
2016, according to the PGA Tour  website . Kodak also decided in
December it wouldn’t continue to sponsor the Kodak Challenge
tour events, which started in 2009.  Kodak filed for bankruptcy Jan. 19 after consumers embraced
digital cameras, a technology Kodak invented and failed to
commercialize. The company, based in Rochester,  New York , listed
assets of $5.1 billion and debt of $6.8 billion in Chapter 11
documents.  The company will seek court approval to get rid of the
contracts at a hearing scheduled for March 20, court papers
show. Any objection to the contract rejection request must be
filed by March 13.  The case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  