-- Korean Stocks Seen Setting Record by Samsung Asset’s Jeon on Export Growth
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-02-29T04:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/korean-stocks-seen-setting-record-by-samsung-asset-s-jeon-on-export-growth.html
South Korea ’s  stocks  will rise to a
record this year as export growth to the U.S. and  China  allows
the nation to withstand higher  oil prices , according to Samsung
Asset Management Co., the country’s biggest money manager.  The  U.S. economy  will gradually recover this year, while
China will loosen its monetary policies to spur growth, said
Jeon Jeong Woo, Seoul-based managing director for equities at
Samsung Asset, which manages $30 billion. While the market may
“pause in the short term” if oil jumps, the rising trend is
unlikely to be reversed, he said in a Feb. 27 interview.  South Korea’s Kospi index has gained 9.8 percent to
2,003.69 this year to yesterday, rebounding from an 11 percent
drop last year, as exports to the U.S. recovered and slowing
inflation allowed policy makers to cut or hold off on raising
 interest rates . The index trades at 10.1  times  estimated profit,
below the four-year average of 11.1 times, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a multiple of 10.8 for
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index and 9.6 for the MSCI BRIC Index,
which tracks Brazil, Russia, India and China.  “The Korean market’s valuations are not expensive, and its
member companies have a global leadership, which should keep
attracting interest,” said Jeon. His  Samsung My Best Securities
Investment Trust 1 (5636926)  fund has returned an annualized 26 percent in
the past three years, beating 60 percent of its peers, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kospi Rally  Among South Korean stocks, chemical, machinery, technology
and construction companies are likely to outperform the
benchmark index this year, according to Jeon, who declined to
name any shares. The Kospi is on course for the biggest January
to February gain since 2005 and is 11 percent shy of a record
high reached in May last year.  The South Korean index climbed 1.4 percent to 2,031.35 as
of 1:39 p.m. Seoul time today.  The U.S. and China, which accounted for a combined 34
percent of South Korean exports  last year , are showing signs of
economic recovery. U.S. purchases of  new homes  exceeded
forecasts in January, while confidence among consumers rose more
than forecast in February.  The Chinese government cut lenders’ reserve-ratio
requirements this month for the first time this year to spur
growth. An index of the nation’s manufacturing that’s scheduled
for March 1 may show a rebound to 50.9 in February, above the
threshold for expansion, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  Oil Risk  Exports to the U.S. rose 23.3 percent in the first 20 days
of January, while those to China, the biggest buyer of South
Korean goods, increased 7.3 percent, the Ministry of  Knowledge
Economy  said on Feb. 1.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , a maker of
chips and mobile-phones, derived more than a quarter of sales
from America in 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  South Korean inflation may accelerate above the
government’s forecast on higher oil prices, just as the nation’s
economic growth is about to start improving, Finance Minister
Bahk Jae Wan said.  Crude futures in  New York  rose 6.3 percent last week to the
highest level since May as escalating tension with  Iran 
threatens supplies. Prices sank 2.9 percent the past two days
and rose as much as 0.4 percent in electronic trading today.  “It’s really tricky to predict oil price movements,”
Samsung Asset’s Jeon said. “The recent price level was event
driven. Positive developments in the real economy would outweigh
that.”  Standard Life Investments Ltd.’s  Andrew Milligan , who helps
oversee about $262 billion as the firm’s Edinburgh-based head of
global strategy, said in a Bloomberg Television interview on
Feb. 27 he likes  Korea  as the nation could benefit if this is
going to be a year for a global economic recovery. Nomura
Holdings Inc. sees the Kospi’s rally continuing, analyst led by
James Kim wrote in a Feb. 23 report.  “More signals of fundamental improvements” will justify
the recent stock rally that was mostly driven by global  money
supply , Jeon said. “Bets on riskier assets will increase” as
more signs of economic recovery emerge, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  