-- Netanyahu Sees Israel Beating Developed Economies Amid Iran Nuclear Threat
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-02-29T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/netanyahu-sees-israel-beating-developed-economies-amid-iran-nuclear-threat.html
As the Iranian nuclear threat
dominates Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s second
term, nothing motivates him more than making economic history.  The son of 101-year-old Benzion Netanyahu, a former Cornell
University history professor, the Israeli premier says his
ambition is to overtake  France  and the U.K., the world’s fifth-
and sixth-largest economies, in terms of output per head. It’s
the push for growth that drives Netanyahu’s policies, even as he
heads to  Washington  next week for talks on Iran.  Since the Massachusetts Institute of Technology-educated
Netanyahu began selling state assets and loosening labor laws as
finance minister from 2003 to 2005,  Israel ’s economy has  boomed ,
growing at an average 4.2 percent each year. The expansion will
help ensure Israel’s survival, as an “island of democracy that
is surrounded by a sea of troubles” in the  Middle East , the 62-
year-old premier told U.S. Jewish leaders at a Feb. 19
conference in Jerusalem.  “If we are to address our defense needs that we are being
challenged with, we have to continue this growth,” Netanyahu
said at the  meeting . “It is not a question of living standard.
It’s a question of national security.”  As part of his plan to spur growth, Netanyahu has set up a
committee to boost competition, introduced reforms to lower the
cost of living after social protests, passed a law to free up
public land for private development, maintained fiscal
discipline, and introduced a two-year budget, a move praised by
the  International Monetary Fund .  Fischer’s Stature  Israel’s economy probably expanded 4.8 percent in 2011,
according to the IMF, matching the 2010 figure and exceeding the
1.7 percent growth in the U.S. The Finance Ministry estimates
gross domestic product will increase 3.2 percent in 2012.  With Stanley Fischer steering monetary policy at the Bank
of Israel, Netanyahu says there’s scope for the nation to match
some of the world’s most developed economies. Fischer was
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s thesis adviser at
MIT.  “There’s no reason why we can’t eventually surpass Britain
and France in GDP per capita,” Netanyahu said during a Feb. 20
interview in his  Jerusalem office , kept warm by two free-
standing electric radiators. “We have to keep growing at 5
percent.”  The  IMF  calculates Israeli GDP per head was $32,300 last
year, compared with $39,600 in the U.K. and $44,400 in France.
Unemployment was 5.4 percent in Israel in the fourth quarter, 
the lowest since at least 1985. The jobless rate was about 9.3 
percent in France and 8.4 percent in Britain.  Riskless Return  Having never fully resolved the state of war with its
neighbors that accompanied Israel’s founding in 1948, the
country produced better risk-adjusted returns than all other
developed stock markets in the past decade, according to the
Bloomberg Riskless Return Ranking.  The Tel Aviv  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  returned 7.6 percent in the 10
years ended Feb. 17, after adjusting for volatility, the highest
among 24 developed-nation benchmark indexes. Hong Kong’s  Hang
Seng Index (HSI)  was the next-best market with a risk-adjusted gain of
6.7 percent, followed by  Norway , which had the highest total
return.  “This is a great achievement,” Netanyahu told the
Knesset, Israel’s parliament, on Feb. 20.  It’s one that the premier argues can help ward off the
challenges such as the threat of a nuclear-armed Iran, set to be
the key theme of his talks with President Barack Obama at the
White House on March 5.  Iranian Sanctions  In the run-up to the meeting, Obama has sent emissaries to
Jerusalem, including Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, National
Security Adviser Tom Donilon and Middle East envoy David Hale,
to assure Netanyahu that the U.S. won’t allow Iran to develop
nuclear weapons. Netanyahu sent Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  to
Washington on Feb. 27 to meet with Vice President Joe Biden.  Netanyahu remains skeptical about the effect on Iran of
international economic sanctions. Barak has suggested that time
is running out to stop Iran by staging a military attack on
suspect nuclear facilities as President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s
government presses ahead with the enrichment of uranium.  An Israeli attack would have precedents. The country
staged an air strike in September 2007 to destroy a suspected
Syrian nuclear reactor under Netanyahu’s predecessor, Ehud Olmert. Menachem Begin ordered a similar operation against an
Iraqi reactor 26 years earlier.  Netanyahu’s family background has equipped him with a sense
of history. His father, an expert on the Spanish Inquisition,
appeared with him in a 2009 election campaign commercial,
showing the two playing chess at home.  Chess Board  “You need the steadfastness to act, to do the unpopular
thing that may ultimately save the country,” Netanyahu said in
the ad after his father moved a piece across the board.  When it comes to policy discussions, it’s the economy that
moves the premier most. The former commando gets positively
electric when he talks about strategies for growth, jumping away
from his desk and grabbing a marker to sketch plans on a white
board built into a wall of his private office for, say, cutting
taxes or deregulating the real-estate market, according to his
spokesman, Mark Regev.  In the Feb. 20 interview, Netanyahu highlighted the
strength of Israel’s technology companies such as  Check Point
Software Technologies Ltd. (CHKP) , the world’s No. 2 software security
firm.  First Term  “Israel produces more conceptual products than any other
country,” he said.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar to
Switzerland’s, has about 60 companies traded on the  Nasdaq Stock
Market (CCMP) , the most of any country outside the U.S. after  China .
The nation also is home to more startup companies per capita
than the U.S.  During his first term as prime minister in the 1990s,
Netanyahu encouraged foreign investment and helped the growth of
software, telecommunications and other technology firms. He
liked to refer to the burgeoning industry as “Silicon Wadi,”
using the Arabic term for a dry river bed. His government
lightened restrictions on trading the shekel, narrowed the
 budget deficit , slowed inflation and limited the scale of wage
increases by standing up to organized labor.  Suez Challenge  In Netanyahu’s 30-month stint as finance minister, the
economy rebounded from the recession of 2001 and 2002 as he
instituted spending cuts, sold off state-owned companies and
introduced deregulation. Netanyahu oversaw the sale of  El Al
Israel Airlines Ltd. (ELAL) , the country’s largest airline, Israel
Discount Bank, the No. 3 bank, and Bezeq Israeli
Telecommunication Corp., the biggest telecommunications
provider. He also started the sale of Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd.  “How can we get the great Asian economies interested?”
Netanyahu said in the interview. “First of all, with our
technology. And we have that. We can also build a train line
from the Red Sea to Ashdod to link  Asia  and  Europe . And we can
pump gas the other way, from the Mediterranean to the Red Sea.”  That rail line would link Ashdod on the Mediterranean with
the southern port of Eilat on the Red Sea, enabling Israel to
compete for cargo traffic with Egypt’s Suez Canal. Another line
Netanyahu is planning would run from the northern port of Haifa
to the eastern border town of Beit Shean, potentially giving the
Palestinian Authority and Jordan rail access to the
Mediterranean.  Gas Find  Confidence in Israel’s economic future has been bolstered
by the discovery of offshore natural-gas deposits by a group led
by Houston-based  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  and Netanya, Israel-based
 Delek Group Ltd. (DLEKG) , which could make the country both energy-
independent and a gas exporter.  Israel’s Leviathan gas field may hold as much as 20
trillion cubic feet of gas, Noble, a partner with Israeli
companies in the site, said in a Dec. 19 statement. The field is
Noble’s biggest find. Noble operates Leviathan and has a 39.66
percent interest. The second-largest Israeli gas find is the
Tamar, which is estimated at about 9 trillion cubic feet.  Sending gas and other Israeli products to China and  India ,
the world’s most populous nations, are among Netanyahu’s highest
priorities in building the economy, he told the Jewish leaders
last month.  “We have to be like a nimble mammal that finds its way in
a perilous world,” Netanyahu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  