-- New York Bid to Halt Worship on School Grounds Rejected by Appeals Court
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-03-01T05:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/new-york-city-s-bid-to-halt-worship-in-schools-rejected-by-federal-court.html
The latest bid by  New York  City to
halt the use of public schools for worship was rejected by a
federal appeals court that said the harm suffered by the city
was outweighed by the fact that the practice has been in effect
for almost a decade.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Manhattan yesterday denied the
city’s bid for a preliminary injunction which would have allowed
enforcement of New York’s ban of worship inside public school
facilities.  The appeals court sent the case back to U.S. District Judge
 Loretta Preska  in New York, saying she should render a
“conclusive, final judgment as soon as practicable.” The
appeals court gave Preska a deadline of “no later than mid-
June, so that the dispute can be concluded by the beginning of
the next school term.”  “Today’s order is unusual; however, it calls for a speedy
resolution of this litigation,” Jane Gordon, senior counsel for
the Appeals Division of the  New York City  Law Department, said
yesterday in a statement. “We look forward to concluding this
matter in accordance with the court’s expedited time frame.”  Preska temporarily halted the city’s ban on Feb. 16 for 10
days. A federal appeals court in New York narrowed that ruling
on Feb. 17, saying that only the Bronx Household of Faith could
worship at a public school in the Bronx.  ‘Speedy Resolution’  After that ruling was issued, Preska on Feb. 24 again
granted a request from the church to allow its members to
continue meeting in a city public school on Sundays. The order
would also affect religious groups that have previously
requested permission from the city to worship in schools.  “The interests of all parties would be served if the
district court proceeds without delay to grant the parties the
opportunity to present their evidence expeditiously and to
render a final judgment.”  Last year, the appeals court, overturning Preska’s 2007
decision in favor of the church, ruled that the city may
prohibit religious groups from using school facilities outside
of regular school hours for worship services.  The legal battle dates to 1995, when the church sued the
city. The church argued the city was violating the First
Amendment by denying it use of a school while allowing other
community groups access to campuses for their activities.  The U.S. Supreme Court in December refused to consider the
appeals court’s ruling reversing Preska’s decision. Lawyers for
the church returned to argue before Preska that the city’s ban
violates the First Amendment’s free-exercise clause, which
forbids government interference in religious activities.  The case is Bronx Household of Faith v. Board of Education
of the City of New York, 01-cv-08598, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  