-- New World Development Underlying Profit Rises 20%, Chairman Cheng Retires
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-02-29T10:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/new-world-development-underlying-profit-rises-20-chairman-cheng-retires.html
New World Development Co. (17) , the  Hong
Kong  developer controlled by billionaire Cheng Yu-tung, said
fiscal first-half underlying profit rose 20 percent and that
Cheng will retire as chairman.  Profit excluding property revaluations climbed to HK$2.83
billion ($360 million) for the six months ended Dec. 31 from
HK$2.35 billion a year earlier, New World said in a statement
today. Sales rose to HK$19.1 billion from HK$15.08 billion.  Hong Kong’s used home transactions have increased at least
7 percent in February from a three year-low a month earlier,
according to  Midland Holdings Ltd. (1200) , the city’s biggest publicly
traded realtor.  Home prices  have fallen about 5 percent since
June because of rising borrowing costs, extra transaction taxes
and higher down-payment requirements.  “Stable demand in the short run is expected to provide
further support to the residential  property market ,” Managing
Director Henry Cheng said in today’s statement. He will replace
his 86-year-old father who will step down in March.  New World shares fell 0.2 percent to HK$10.68 at the close
of trading in Hong Kong after declining as much as 5.4 percent.
The builder also invests in roads, power generation,
transportation, telecommunications and retailing.  Home Sales  The developer plans to sell HK$18.3 billion of homes in
Hong Kong this year, Henry Cheng said at a briefing after the
results.  New World has 18 million square meters (194 million square
feet) of land reserves on the Chinese mainland, he said.  Henry Cheng said that as long as his health permits, he
plans to lead the company “for at least another 20 years.”
 Cheng Yu-tung  was rated Hong Kong’s fourth-richest person by
Forbes in January, after his wealth jumped $6 billion to $15
billion following the initial public offering of subsidiary Chow
Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd. in December.  “Part of our plans to reform the business is to make
things more transparent to investors and to raise the efficiency
and quality of our businesses,” Henry Cheng said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  