-- No One ‘Deserves to Die’ on Cruise, Ship Survivor Says
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-02-29T22:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/no-one-deserves-to-die-on-cruise-ship-survivor-says.html
Passengers aboard  Carnival Corp. (CCL) ’s
Costa Concordia were repeatedly told not to panic or abandon the
sinking vessel off  Italy ’s coast because the trouble was
“generator failure,” a survivor told U.S. lawmakers.  Divya Sharma told a House panel today she was eating dinner
about four hours after boarding the cruise ship with her
husband, Sameer, to celebrate their fifth wedding anniversary.
The couple from Medford,  Massachusetts , said they decided to end
their dinner, step over broken glass dishes and retrieve life
jackets that Divya had spotted in their cabin closet, ignoring
the crew’s assurances that all was fine.  Carnival’s Costa Concordia ran aground off Italy’s coast in
January, killing at least 25 people. Sharma was among witnesses
at a U.S. House transportation panel hearing on the accident and
cruise-ship safety.  “We trusted the crewmembers and the captain that they knew
what they were doing,” Divya Sharma said. “Nobody deserves to
die on their vacation.”  Carnival, the world’s biggest cruise operator, has dropped
 12 percent  in New York trading since Jan. 13, when the ship
struck rocks and partially sank. The incident led Carnival to
reduce marketing in the January-to-March period, during which
one-third of all voyages are arranged.  Lessons Learned  The cruise industry learned from the Costa Concordia
accident that emergency muster drills for passengers should be
conducted before ships leave port, Christine Duffy, chief
executive officer of the Cruise Lines International Association,
told the panel.  The Sharmas described confusion as they asked their cabin
attendant and crew members what to do and where to go to reach
lifeboats as the grounded vessel began listing. They said they
hadn’t been told where emergency equipment was stored or how to
use the gear.  To reach their cabin on the ninth deck for life jackets and
return to the lifeboats on the fourth deck, the couple had to
climb “tilting” stairs and hallways amid “dim” emergency
lighting, Divya Sharma said.  “Not a single fatality is acceptable to our industry,”
said Duffy, whose group has offices in  Fort Lauderdale ,  Florida ,
and Arlington, Virginia. “We treat every one of these tragedies
as a profound reminder of our duty to continuously improve our
practices, procedures and performance.”  Duffy is scheduled to testify again tomorrow when Senator
 Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat, holds a Commerce
Committee hearing on cruise industry oversight. Rockefeller, in
prepared testimony, criticized the industry’s tax structure and
environmental record.  “In addition to reviewing the industry’s safety and
environmental record, I believe that we must ask why an industry
that earns billions and uses a variety of federal services --
from the Coast Guard, to the Customs Bureau to Centers for
Disease Control -- pays almost no corporate income tax,”
Rockefeller said.  The Costa Concordia remains half submerged and on its side.
Divers searching the wreckage found eight bodies on Feb. 22,
according to the Italian Civil Protection Agency. Seven people
are missing, the agency said.  Nine employees of Carnival’s Genoa-based Costa Crociere
unit are under investigation in connection with the Concordia
accident. The cruise line is “absolutely certain” its staff
acted correctly, it said in an e-mailed statement Feb. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  