-- Noor Islamic Says It Ended Relations With Iranian Lenders
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-02-29T13:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/noor-islamic-says-it-ended-relations-with-iranian-lenders-1-.html
Noor Islamic Bank, whose chairman is
a son of Dubai’s ruler, said it ended relations with Iranian
banks in December in compliance with international rules related
to sanctions against the country.  “We took pre-emptive action to end our business
relationships with Iranian banks licensed in the U.A.E.,” the
lender said in an e-mailed statement today. “We comply with all
U.A.E. central bank and U.A.E. government directives and
international regulations, including those emanating from the
UN, regarding sanctions on  Iran .”  The bank was targeted by the U.S. Treasury Department for
being Iran’s main conduit to evade international sanctions and
process oil sales,  the Wall Street Journal  reported today,
citing unidentified people.  Noor Islamic agreed in December to close what people
briefed on the matter characterized as Iran’s largest channel
for repatriating foreign-currency oil receipts, facilitating as
much as 60 percent of foreign oil sales by late last year, the
Journal reported. The U.S. targeted the bank because it had been
returning oil profits to Iran through entities that have been
sanctioned by the U.S. and the European Union, including Bank
Saderat Plc and Bank Melli Iran, it said.  Dubai Ruler  Sheikh Ahmed bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the son of
Dubai’s ruler, is the chairman of Noor Islamic Bank, according
to  the bank’s website .  The U.S. and the EU have imposed sanctions on Iran in
response to its nuclear program, restricting trade and financial
transactions. The U.S. and its allies suspect the program is a
cover for developing atomic weapons, a contention Iran has
denied, maintaining it is for civilian purposes.  U.S. sanctions against financial institutions that deal
with Iran take effect at the end of June, while the EU plans to
ban imports of Iranian oil from the beginning of July. Swift,
the global bank-transfer service, said last week it is prepared
to impose sanctions against Iranian financial institutions once
the EU sets out implementation rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  