-- North Korea Agrees to Halt Nuclear Tests, Missile Launches
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-03-01T06:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/north-korea-agrees-to-halt-nuclear-tests-missile-launches-amid-u-s-talks.html
North Korea  agreed to a moratorium
on nuclear tests and long-range missile launches in an accord
with the U.S. that Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called a
“modest step in the right direction.”  The government in Pyongyang will also halt uranium
enrichment at its facility in Yongbyon and permit verification
by international inspectors, according to statements released
yesterday by both countries. Further talks will be held on
implementing the terms, which also call for the U.S. to provide
food aid to North Korea.  The accord came out of talks between the U.S. and North
Korea in Beijing on Feb. 23 and Feb. 24, the first since
dictator Kim Jong Il died in December and his son, Kim Jong Un,
inherited leadership of the impoverished, nuclear-armed country.  The new leader is following the “exact playbook” of
alternating confrontations and negotiations established by his
father and his grandfather,  Kim Il Sung , according to David Maxwell, associate director of the Center for Peace and  Security
Studies  at  Georgetown University  in Washington.  “I do not see this as any kind of change or
breakthrough,” Maxwell said yesterday in an interview, adding
that North Korea was angling for food aid.  The U.S. agreed to make final plans to provide an initial
240,000 metric tons of food aid, to be provided in 20,000-ton
increments every month for a year, with the “prospect of
additional assistance based on continued need,” according to a
 State Department statement .  North Korea’s Foreign Ministry said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement that the talks “offered a venue for sincere
and in-depth discussion” of measures to build confidence and
improve relations.  South Korea Reaction  South Korea , which is still technically at war with the
North since their 1950-53 conflict ended without a peace treaty,
welcomed the announcement and expects the agreements will be
“faithfully carried out,” according to a foreign ministry
statement on its website.  Yesterday’s agreement is “a basis to further its efforts
to comprehensively and fundamentally resolve the North Korean
nuclear issue,” the ministry said.  The Obama administration “still has profound concerns”
about North Korea, Clinton told a House Appropriations
subcommittee yesterday.  “It is our hope that the new leadership will choose to
guide their nation onto the path of peace by living up to its
obligations,” Clinton said. “We, of course, will be watching
closely and judging North Korea’s new leaders by their
actions,” Clinton said.  IAEA Inspections  North Korea agreed to permit the return of  International
Atomic Energy Agency  inspectors to verify and monitor the
moratorium on uranium enrichment activities at the facility in
Yongbyon and confirm that the five-megawatt reactor and
associated facilities are being disabled, according to the State
Department.  North Korea said it will allow the monitoring “while
productive dialogues continue.” The country’s chief nuclear
envoy, Ri Yong Ho, will visit the U.S. next week and may meet
State Department officials, South Korea’s Hankyoreh newspaper
reported, citing an unidentified person in  Washington .  The U.S. expects tough negotiations on the timing of the
food aid and the IAEA inspections, according to a State
Department official who briefed reporters.  The Obama administration won’t start providing the aid
until groups to distribute it are in full operation to ensure
the help isn’t directed to the military or North Korea’s elite,
according to a second State Department official.  Aid Details  The official said the U.S. has chosen aid intended to
benefit young children and pregnant women. Some ready-to-eat
meals would be made available to children suffering from
malnutrition, the official said. Both officials spoke on
condition of anonymity about the private negotiations.  Republican U.S. lawmakers criticized the Obama
administration for the terms it accepted.  “Years of getting duped by North Korea should tell us that
verification on their turf is extremely difficult, if not
impossible,” Representative Ed Royce, chairman of a House
Foreign Affairs subcommittee, said in an e-mailed statement.
“That applies to food aid distribution, where the military has
stolen food aid, or nuclear disarmament.”  Senator Jon Kyl of  Arizona  said the administration “is
effectively violating long-standing U.S. policy not to link
North Korean denuclearization commitments to food aid.”  ‘Important Step’  U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague considers the
agreement “an important step,” according to a statement from
his office. “Recent changes in the North Korean leadership
provide an opportunity for renewed engagement with the
international community.” Japanese Foreign Minister  Koichiro
Gemba  in a e-mailed statement welcomed the move, while saying
North Korea “must take concrete action toward
denuclearization.”  Analysts in the U.S. debated whether the announcement
represented movement by North Korea under its new leader.  “This could be one of the more significant diplomatic
surprises of the year,” George Lopez, a former United Nations
sanctions investigator now at the Kroc Institute for
International Peace Studies at the University of  Notre Dame  in
South Bend,  Indiana , said yesterday in an e-mail. “Very few
analysts believed that anything of substance would happen in the
first few months after Kim Jong Un came to power.”  John Park, a fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and
International Affairs at  Harvard University  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , said yesterday’s deal had been scheduled for
December and was postponed upon  Kim Jong Il ’s death. Its revival
is significant as a sign of continuity, Park said.  ‘Baseline Understanding’  “It provides something of a baseline understanding with
the new leadership in Pyongyang,” he said.  The agreement to halt nuclear activities at Yongbyon
doesn’t affect work North Korea may be conducting elsewhere,
according to  Marcus Noland , deputy director of the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in Washington.  “The working assumption is that there are other facilities
scattered in unknown locations and this agreement doesn’t stop
them from that,” he said.  Noland, author of “Avoiding the Apocalypse: The Future of
the Two Koreas,” called it significant that North Korea agreed
to the amount of food aid offered by the U.S., saying Kim Jong
Il had demanded 330,000 tons.  “The fact that they’ve accepted the U.S. position of
240,000 metric tons is an important indicator that there is
somebody in charge,” Noland said. “Maybe it’s Kim Jong Un, a
collective and maybe Jang Song Thaek,” the new leader’s uncle,
he said.  Six-Party Talks  North Korea’s foreign ministry said the discussions in
Beijing offered an opportunity for the resumption of six-party
talks, which haven’t been held since December 2008. The six-
nation forum is aimed at ending North Korea’s nuclear program
through negotiations that also involve  China , the U.S.,  Japan ,
 Russia  and South Korea.  The Beijing meetings were the third since the U.S. resumed
direct talks with North Korea in efforts to bring the country
back to the negotiations. China, North Korea’s main ally, will
take “proactive steps” and continue to push for the six-party
talks, Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said today in a
statement on the ministry’s website.  In October, Kim Jong Il said North Korea was ready to
restart the talks as long as they occurred without
preconditions. The U.S. State Department said in August that
North Korea must refrain from nuclear testing and missile
launches and meet other conditions before the talks can resume.
The North revealed its  uranium-enrichment  program in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  