-- Novartis Cancer Drugs Fight Deadly Ebola Virus in Lab, Researchers Find
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-02-29T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/novartis-cancer-drugs-fight-deadly-ebola-virus-in-lab-researchers-find.html
Two  Novartis AG (NOVN)  leukemia drugs,
Gleevec and Tasigna, fought the deadly Ebola virus in laboratory
experiments, suggesting the products could be used against a
disease for which there are no treatments.  The two medicines stopped the release of viral particles
from infected cells in lab dishes, a step that in a person may
prevent Ebola from spreading in the body and give the immune
system time to control it, researchers from the U.S. National
Institute of Allergy and  Infectious Diseases  wrote in the
journal  Science Translational Medicine  today.  There’s no cure and no vaccine for Ebola, a virus that
causes high fever, diarrhea, vomiting and internal and external
bleeding. Death can ensue within days, and outbreaks in  Africa 
have recorded fatality rates of as much as 90 percent, according
to the  World Health Organization .  In some forms of leukemia, Gleevec and Tasigna reduce
levels of a protein called Bcr-Abl that causes malignant white
blood cells to multiply.  The researchers found that Ebola uses a related protein
called c-Abl1 tyrosine kinase to regulate its own reproduction.
They showed that by blocking c-Abl1, Tasigna may reduce the
pathogen’s ability to replicate by as much as 10,000-fold. In
addition to showing how the two drugs might be used to treat
infected patients, the findings also suggest that new medicines
could be developed to target c-Abl1, they wrote.  Gleevec and Tasigna, also known as imatinib and nilotinib,
earned Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis a combined $5.45
billion in sales last year. Gleevec is sold as Glivec outside
the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  