-- Obama Meets With Congressional Leaders on Economic Agenda
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-02-29T21:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/obama-meeting-congressional-leaders-with-focus-on-economy-bills.html
President  Barack Obama  met privately
over lunch with Democratic and Republican congressional leaders,
the first such session in seven months, seeking to work on an
election-year economic agenda.  The talks today were “constructive and cordial,”
spokesman  Jay Carney  said at a White House briefing. House
Speaker John Boehner told reporters later he was “encouraged”
and hoped Democratic leaders would consider energy and jobs
bills that he said have bipartisan support.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said he pressed Obama to allow
construction of an oil pipeline from  Canada  that Republicans and
some Democrats say will create jobs. Boehner said the president
suggested agreement may be found on Republican bills aimed at
creating jobs that have passed the House.  “We offered to work with the president on some of those
bipartisan bills,” he said.  Vice President  Joe Biden  joined the lunch with Boehner,
House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi of  California , Senate
Democratic leader Harry Reid of  Nevada  and Senate Republican
leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky in the president’s private
dining room.  Neither side said whether specific goals were reached or
timetables set, though Boehner said the tone was conciliatory.  ‘Very Positive’  McConnell told reporters the talks were “very positive.”
A statement issued by his office said there may be some movement
on House-passed jobs bills “that have been gathering dust in
the Senate.”  The meeting, initiated by the White House, lasted a little
more than an hour. It was Obama’s first with Republican and
Democratic leaders from the House and Senate since a July 23
event at the executive mansion on the debt and deficit talks.  Carney told reporters at the White House “there is reason
to hope” that the conventional wisdom of nothing happening this
year “is wrong.” Talks will continue, he said.  Efforts to develop a legislative road map may be difficult.
That’s because few lawmakers from either party expect much to be
accomplished before the Nov. 6 general election. A White House
spokesman,  Josh Earnest , said Dec. 31 that the full-year
extension of a payroll tax cut, which Obama signed Feb. 22, was
the last “must-do” legislation before November.  Keystone Pipeline  The administration and congressional Republicans remain at
odds on such issues as Obama’s economic proposals, energy policy
and the budget. Just hours before today’s meeting, McConnell
criticized the president for rejecting, for now, a permit for
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline.  “Whether it’s high gas prices, or government regulations,
or higher debt, the American people are tired of bearing the
burden so this president can build an economy in which
Washington calls all the shots,” McConnell said on the Senate
floor.  Carney said calls to approve the Keystone pipeline “are
insulting” because “there is no permit to approve.”  TransCanada yesterday told the State Department that it
will submit an application for a route from the Canadian border
to Steel City,  Nebraska ,  Hillary Clinton  said today.  “We take very seriously the need to increase our supply”
of oil, she said.  Carney said any politician who says construction of the
full Keystone pipeline will lower gasoline prices, at least in
the short term, “is blowing a lot of smoke.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  