-- Obesity Prompts Vivus Takeover Talk With 88% Windfall: Real M&A
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-02-29T21:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/obesity-epidemic-prompting-vivus-takeover-talk-with-68-windfall-real-m-a.html
Vivus Inc. (VVUS) ’s shareholders are poised
to reap an 88 percent windfall in a takeover after the company’s
weight-loss drug moved one step closer to winning approval to
treat America’s  78 million  obese adults.  A panel of U.S. Food and Drug Administration advisers voted
20-2 last week that the benefits of Vivus’s Qnexa pill outweigh
its risks, a recommendation that could lead to the first new
FDA-approved weight-loss drug since 1999. An approval would make
the company worth as much as $40 a share to potential acquirers,
said Cowen & Co., valuing  Mountain View , California-based Vivus
at $3.6 billion. The 88 percent premium would be four times the
industry average and the second-highest for a drug takeover over
$1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vivus could now lure interest from  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , Merck
& Co. and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , with annual sales of the
Qnexa pill projected to reach $5 billion by 2020, according to
Rodman & Renshaw LLC. After more than a decade of weight-loss
treatments presented risks from  heart disease  to brain tumors,
the FDA’s receptivity to Qnexa may also put rival obesity-drug
developers  Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. (OREX)  and  Arena Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (ARNA)  in play as more than one-third of U.S. adults suffer from
obesity, JMP Securities said.  “The FDA has clearly crossed the Rubicon of balancing risk
and benefit, understanding that the obesity problem is a
pandemic,” Michael King, a New York-based analyst at Rodman &
Renshaw, said in a telephone interview. “There are not a lot of
products around in the pharmaceutical industry that address such
large market opportunities. Vivus is not going to give this up
cheap.”  Losing Weight  If Qnexa is approved, Vivus plans to market the drug in the
U.S. on its own, and to seek a marketing partner for outside the
U.S., Ashley Buford, an outside spokeswoman for Vivus, said in
an e-mail. She declined to comment further.  Vivus rose 5.8 percent to $22.50 today after earlier
climbing as much as 10 percent.  Carol Goodrich, a spokeswoman for New Brunswick, New
Jersey-based J&J, and Jennifer Fron Mauer of Bristol-Myers in
New York said the companies don’t comment on takeover
speculation.  Ron Rogers , a spokesman for  Whitehouse Station , New
Jersey-based  Merck (MRK) , didn’t return phone and e-mail requests for
comment.  Qnexa, which Vivus says helps patients lose 10 percent of
their body weight, is ahead of rival obesity drugs including
Orexigen’s  Contrave  and Arena’s  lorcaserin , with a decision from
regulators due by April 17.  ‘Nothing’s Ever Guaranteed’  While the FDA isn’t obligated to follow the panel’s Feb. 22
recommendation, the advisers signaled the regulator’s
receptivity to Qnexa and other obesity drugs, said Ken Kam, who
owns Vivus shares as chief executive officer of Los Altos,
California-based Marketocracy Inc.  “Nothing’s ever guaranteed until the FDA issues the letter,
but this is as strong an indication it’s going to get approved
as I’ve ever seen,” Kam said in a phone interview.  Worldwide obesity  has more than doubled since 1980,
according to the  World Health Organization , and the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention calls it an  epidemic . A person is
considered obese if his or her body mass index, a measure of fat
that divides weight by the square of one’s height, is higher
than 30.  “There is pressure to get something on the market, given
everyone talking about the obesity epidemic and needing another
tool for dealing with obesity,” Simos Simeonidis, a New York-
based analyst at Cowen, said in a phone interview.  Heart Attacks  The last prescription weight-loss drug approved by the FDA
was  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Xenical in 1999. New therapies have all
stumbled over safety hurdles at the FDA, including  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT) ’ diet pill Meridia, which was removed from U.S.
shelves in October 2010 on concern about its links to heart
attacks and strokes.  Safety issues also prompted the withdrawal of Wyeth’s fen-
phen diet-drug combination in 1997. More than 6 million
prescriptions were written for fen-phen before it was pulled
from the market for links to heart damage and primary pulmonary
hypertension, a lung disease.  “Think of all the crazy things people do to lose weight,”
said King of Rodman & Renshaw. “If they hear about something
that now has the imprimatur of the FDA to be shown safe and
effective, why wouldn’t they at least try it?”  The promise of  Qnexa  -- a combination of topiramate, used
for seizures and migraines, and the appetite suppressant
phentermine -- means Vivus may now be an acquisition target,
said Simeonidis.  Takeover Premium  “I expect Qnexa to be approved, and I would not be
surprised to see a takeout,” he said. “This is a potentially
large drug, and it’s going to be utilized best in the hands of a
large pharmaceutical company that has a primary-care sales force
in place and can make the most of its commercialization
potential.”  Vivus may fetch more than $40 a share in a takeover if
Qnexa is approved, according to Simeonidis, based on his
estimate that the medicine could pull in $2.2 billion in annual
revenue by 2019.  At 88 percent more than yesterday’s  closing price , that
would be four times the average 22 percent premium paid in
takeovers greater than $1 billion in the medical drug industry,
a sector of pharmaceuticals that excludes generic drugs and
biomedical companies, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It would
be the industry’s second-highest on record after the 94 percent
premium Gilead Sciences Inc. offered for Pharmasset Inc. in
November, the data show.  ‘The Driver’s Seat’  Vivus had already increased  102 percent  through yesterday
to $21.26 since the panel’s decision was announced, adding $957
million to the company’s market value. A takeover at $40 a share
would boost stockholder value by another $1.7 billion.  “I would expect the price to be very high,” Kam said.
“If there is an interest, Vivus is in the driver’s seat because
they don’t need to sell.”  Competition to buy Vivus for the chance to mass-market the
new drug will drive up the takeover price, Simeonidis said.  J&J, Merck and Bristol-Myers may all be interested buyers
because of the prevalence of obesity and the cost efficiency of
using their own sales teams, said Rodman’s King. Qnexa has a net
present value of $2.8 billion, based on estimated penetration
rates, length of therapy and price for the drug, if it’s
approved, King said. An acquirer would need to pay at least that
much for the whole company, he said.  J&J already sells one ingredient in Qnexa called topiramate,
which it markets as Topamax for seizures and migraines. The drug
was one of the company’s top sellers before it lost patent
protection in 2009. Merck and Bristol-Myers are also logical
buyers because they already have metabolic-disease franchises
through diabetes medicines, King said.  Clinical Trial  The FDA could still require a clinical trial assessing the
cardiovascular safety of Vivus’s drug before allowing it on the
market, Charles Duncan, a New York-based analyst at JMP
Securities, said in a phone interview last week. It may approve
the drug by the April due date, or issue additional requirements
that could be satisfied by year-end such as finishing details on
a post-market study.  Qnexa was rejected by regulators in October 2010 over
concern the medicine may cause birth defects and increased heart
rate. Even if the drug gets approved, pharmaceutical companies
may hold off on an acquisition to be sure of the potential side
effects, said  Les Funtleyder , a health strategist and portfolio
manager at Miller Tabak & Co. in  New York , where he helps
oversee $500 million in assets.  ‘Radical Transformation’  “Down the road, if some of these drugs succeeded and there
weren’t any unfavorable off-target impacts, then perhaps” the
makers of weight-loss drugs could be acquired, Funtleyder said
in a phone interview. Success, particularly FDA approval,
“breeds deal activity,” he said.  While La Jolla, California-based Orexigen and Arena of San
Diego are trailing Vivus, the panel’s vote on Qnexa was “a
little bit of a tide that lifted all boats,” Duncan said.  Orexigen makes Contrave, which is a closer competitor to
Vivus’s Qnexa than Arena’s lorcaserin based on safety and
efficacy, Duncan said. Lorcaserin is a “totally novel agent”
with less-understood risks, he said.  Orexigen shares had  climbed  143 percent this year through
yesterday for the second-biggest gain among 286 stocks in the
 Russell 2000 Health Care Index (RGUSHS) , giving the company a market
value of $210 million. Vivus had posted the third-biggest
increase at 118 percent. Arena, valued at $287 million, was down
1.6 percent.  Brain Tumors  “All three are takeout candidates,” Duncan said. “The
problem with obesity-drug development is there are so many
questions. In the next 12 months we’re going to see a radical
transformation of the field.”  In September Orexigen agreed with the FDA to run a two-year
clinical trial on heart risks for Contrave, reviving stalled
development of the medicine in the U.S. The company is partnered
with  Osaka , Japan-based drugmaker  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) , a
likely buyer if the drug shows success, Duncan said.  A phone call and e-mail to Takeda’s North American media
department weren’t returned.  While Orexigen now aims to obtain FDA approval in 2014,
Arena’s drug lorcaserin is due to receive a regulatory verdict
in June 2012. Arena was rejected by the FDA in October 2010
after lorcaserin was shown to have a potential link to brain
tumors. The company said in August that concentrations of the
pill were lower in human brains than rat models, suggesting
humans are less likely to develop the slow-growing tumors.  Race for Approval  Jay Hagan, chief business officer of Orexigen, declined to
comment on mergers and acquisitions. The company is partnered
with Takeda in  North America , and will run a process to find a
partner to market the drug in the rest of the world, he said.
Orexigen hasn’t indicated when it will apply for approval in
 Europe .  “Arena is focused on preparing for its FDA advisory
committee meeting in the second quarter,” David Schull, an
outside spokesman for the company, said in an e-mail. He
declined to comment further.  Closely held drugmaker  Zafgen Inc. , which is wrapping up
phase 1b trials of its obesity drug beloranib that affects the
way the body metabolizes fat, has received acquisition interest
from large pharmaceutical companies, CEO Tom Hughes said in a
phone interview. Zafgen aims to file an application with the FDA
in 2016.  “There is new interest in the renewed belief that obesity
products might be approved,” Hughes said.  Despite the race for regulatory approval from the
developers of other obesity drugs, Vivus has the highest
probability of being acquired, said Cowen’s Simeonidis.  “From a purely financial perspective, the potential cash
flows and the size of the opportunity makes them very
attractive,” said Kam of Marketocracy. “Just think what
percentage of people would want to lose 10 percent of their
weight without having to change their diet or exercise habits.
It could be huge.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 