-- Oil Surge to Record Endangers Europe’s Growth Dash: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-02-29T08:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/oil-surge-to-record-endangers-europe-s-growth-dash-euro-credit.html
If growth is the answer to  Europe ’s
debt crisis, then oil is the question.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , who lowered
interest rates at his first two monthly meetings as head of the
ECB since November, may struggle to keep borrowing costs down as
oil reaches a record when calculated in euros. Crude is up more
than 30 percent in the past six months in the single currency,
reaching a record 81.85 euros ($110) a barrel this week.  “Rising oil prices will present another challenge to the
ECB and it may make it less likely for it to cut rates at a pace
the market is pricing,” said Mohit Kumar, the head of European
fixed income strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “I’m not
saying the ECB will raise rates anytime soon. It tends to be
more sensitive to inflation than the  Federal Reserve  or the  Bank
of England .”  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said this week
that “growth is the answer” to the economic woes that have
driven Greece,  Italy ,  Spain , and  Portugal  into recession.
Inflation-linked debt suggests investors are starting to
anticipate faster inflation, demanding the highest premium since
August to own regular 10-year German securities rather than
bunds with interest payments tied to consumer prices.  The yield on 10-year index-linked bunds has declined from
minus 0.11 percent at the start of the year to minus 0.20
percent, while  Germany ’s 10-year borrowing cost is little
changed at 1.82 percent. The 10-year breakeven rate, a gauge of
inflation expectations derived from the gap between index-linked
and regular bonds, climbed to 1.85 percentage points last month,
the most since August. It was at 1.65 percentage points today,
compared with an average of 1.58 points in the past six months.  Inflation Outlook  The region’s inflation rate was at 2.7 percent in January,
while the ECB aims to keep it just below 2 percent. On Jan. 12,
Draghi cited energy costs for stoking inflation. The central
bank forecasts that the consumer price growth rate will average
2 percent this year, compared with 2.7 percent in 2011.  France ’s two-year breakeven rate rose to 2.0 percentage
points from 1.79 percentage points at the start of the year.
Yields on non-index linked bonds of the same maturity have
dropped 21 basis points to 0.60 percent.  West Texas  Oil priced in dollars has advanced 9.9 percent this year on
concern that escalating tensions in the  Middle East  will disrupt
supply, after the European Union agreed Jan. 23 to ban crude
imports from  Iran . West Texas Intermediate crude futures touched
$109.95 in New York trading on Feb. 25, before trading at
$108.30 yesterday.  Commerzbank AG raised its 2012 oil price forecast for West
Texas Intermediate crude to $107 a barrel from $101 and North
Sea Brent to $117 from $108, the Frankfurt-based company said in
an e-mailed report on Feb. 22. The euro region will shrink 0.3
percent this year, down from a November estimate for growth of
0.5 percent, according to the European Commission’s forecasts.  Rising oil prices are “a double-edged sword” for central
banks, said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank. “It may
boost inflation in the short term, but it damps the growth
outlook,” he said.  The ECB, whose primary job is to fight inflation, left its
 benchmark interest rate  at a record low of 1 percent this month
and last. It reduced borrowing costs in November and December by
a quarter-point each time, reversing increases made last April
and July. Former President  Jean-Claude Trichet  applauded the
bank’s willingness to raise rates in July 2008, two months
before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for  bankruptcy
protection , as evidence of its determination to fight inflation.  Greece to Germany  “The ECB’s tightening in 2008 and 2011 testifies to its
willingness to react to higher commodity prices,” said Kumar at
Deutsche Bank. He sees less risk of energy costs leading to
rising prices in countries such as  Greece  or Spain, where
unemployment has surged, than in Germany. “The risk of a pass-
through of higher energy prices into inflation is higher in core
countries given the tighter labor market conditions,” he said.  Social unrest against a backdrop of spending cuts and tax
increases makes it harder for the ECB to raise interest rates,
said Robert Farago, the London-based head of asset allocation at
Schroders Private Banking which has 15.6 billion pounds ($25
billion) in assets. Tens of thousands of protesters rallied
across Spain on Feb. 19 against a decree that lowers firing
costs and makes it easier for employers to reduce wages. Rioters
in  Athens  set fire to as many as 45 buildings during street
protests that began on Feb. 12.  Austerity Measures  “Raising interest rates at the same time as imposing severe
austerity measures could trigger a political crisis,” Farago
said. “Expect the  European Central Bank  to talk tough but sit
on its hands.”  The five-year, five-year forward breakeven rate in euros,
which gauges inflation expectations for the five-year period
beginning in 2017, rose to 2.63 percent on Feb. 8, the most
since March 2010. That’s higher than in April and July of last
year, when the ECB raised interest rates. It was at 2.47 percent
yesterday. The gauge is among the inflation indicators that the
ECB watches.  “Energy prices are a real struggle for the central bank,”
said Thina Saltvedt, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Oslo. “It
makes it more complicated for the ECB while they’re trying to
stimulate growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  