-- Oil Fluctuates After Best Month Since October as Economy Counters Supplies
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-03-01T07:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/oil-trades-near-two-day-high-as-economy-counters-rising-crude-supplies.html
Oil swung between gains and losses
after the biggest monthly advance since October as speculation
that global economic growth will boost fuel demand countered
concern rising supplies will limit price gains.  Futures were little changed in  New York  today after
advancing 8.7 percent last month. U.S. manufacturing expanded
“at a steady pace across the nation,” the  Federal Reserve 
said, while reports showed factory output improving in China.
U.S. crude stockpiles increased almost four times more than
forecast and OPEC output advanced to the highest in more than
three years.  “The economic data feeds into the demand picture for the
U.S.,”  Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at CMC
Markets Asia Pacific Pty in Sydney, said by phone. “While it’s
not boom time, it’s a lot more positive than the double-dip
recession scenario we were looking at last year and should add
to the firm tone of the oil market.”  Oil for April delivery was at $106.82 a barrel, down 25
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 3:48 p.m. Singapore time. The contract yesterday rose 52
cents, or 0.5 percent, to $107.07, the highest settlement since
Feb. 27. Prices are 7.2 percent higher in the past year.  Brent oil for April settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange increased 10 cents to $122.76 a barrel.
The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to New York-traded
West Texas intermediate grade widened for a second day to
$15.94. The spread reached a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Economic Growth  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a “modest to moderate pace”
the past two months, the Federal Reserve said in its Beige Book
survey. A Chinese manufacturing index rose to 51.0 in February
from 50.5 in January, the Beijing-based National Bureau of
Statistics and the  China  Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
said today, while an index by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics climbed to 49.6 from 48.8. A reading above 50
indicates expansion. The U.S. and China are the world’s biggest
oil consumers.  Crude output by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries increased 255,000 barrels to an average 31.1 million
barrels a day in February from 30.8 million the prior month,
according to a Bloomberg survey of  oil companies , producers and
analysts. Production was the highest since November 2008. Iran’s
output was the lowest in more than nine years.  Iran Supply  Oil has risen this year as Western nations tighten
sanctions on Iran over its nuclear program.  Iran  has threatened
to shut the  Strait of Hormuz , a transit route for a fifth of the
world’s oil, in response to an embargo.  Brent crude prices may average as much as $135 a barrel
this year if international relations with Iran deteriorate,
compared with a current forecast of $115,  Barclays Capital  said
in a report today.  “There are new fears about the security of the Strait of
Hormuz,” Tim Whittaker, an analyst at Barclays in  London , said
in the report. “We still contend that the risk of either an
Israeli or a U.S. strike on the Iranian nuclear facilities is
low, but it has risen, in our view, from 5-10 percent last year
to 25-30 percent now.”  Excluding Iran from the global crude market would increase
the shortfall between worldwide supply and demand six-fold,
according to U.S. Energy Department calculations using February
production and consumption estimates. Global fuel use averaged 3
million barrels a day more than output when Iran is excluded,
and 500,000 more when it is included, the department said in a
report yesterday.  Saudi Rigs  Saudi Arabia  is deploying the most oil rigs in four years
as it prepares for possible shortages caused by tension with
Iran. The number of rigs used more than doubled in January from
a year earlier, the biggest annual increase on record, data from
Houston-based  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  showed.  Oil in New York dropped as much as 1.6 percent yesterday
after the Energy Department said  crude stockpiles  rose 4.2
million barrels last week. They were forecast to climb 1.1
million, according to the median projection of 12 analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey. Supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the
delivery point for New York-traded oil, rose 1.6 million barrels
to 33.8 million, the highest level since Aug. 5.  Gasoline inventories fell 1.6 million barrels last week,
compared with a projected 425,000 barrel decline. Distillate
stockpiles, including heating oil and diesel, slid 2.1 million
barrels. They were forecast to  drop  750,000 barrels.  The U.S. exported more gasoline, diesel and other fuels
than it imported in 2011 for the first time since 1949, the
Energy Department said. Shipments of petroleum products abroad
exceeded imports by 439,000 barrels a day, the department said
in the Petroleum Supply Monthly report. Refiners exported record
amounts of gasoline, heating oil and diesel to meet higher
global demand while U.S. fuel consumption sank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  