-- Oil Set for Best Monthly Advance Since October on Recovery Signs, Iran
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-02-29T12:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/oil-set-for-best-monthly-advance-since-october-on-recovery-signs-iran.html
Oil rose, heading for its best month
in  New York  since October, amid signs of economic recovery and
concern that tension with Iran threatens global crude supplies.  West Texas Intermediate futures climbed as much as 0.8
percent after sliding yesterday the most in five weeks.
Industrial output in  Japan  and  South Korea  beat estimates and
U.S. consumer confidence rose to the highest level in a year.
Oil has advanced 8.6 percent in February, its first monthly gain
in three, as sanctions tighten against Iran, OPEC’s second-
biggest producer.  “ Oil prices  will run up further as U.S. economic data
remains supportive, and Iran and Syria continue to give cause
for supply-side worries,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior
broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London, who earlier this month
correctly predicted Brent crude’s rise to $120 a barrel.  Crude for April delivery increased as much as 88 cents to
$107.43 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $106.98 at 12:25 p.m. London
time. Yesterday, the contract slipped $2.01, or 1.9 percent, to
$106.55, the lowest close since Feb. 22 and the biggest drop
since Jan. 20.  Oil in New York has technical resistance at $114.96 a
barrel, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the 76.4
percent Fibonacci retracement of crude’s rally from $10.35 in
December 1998 to a record high of $147.27 in July 2008. Futures
in May last year halted an advance below that level. Sell orders
tend to be clustered close to chart resistance.  Brent oil for April settlement advanced $1.01 to $122.56 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s  premium  to WTI was at $15.56,
compared with $15 yesterday and a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Inventory, Economic Outlook  The  Department of Energy  is scheduled to release U.S. oil
inventory and production statistics at 10:30 a.m. Washington
time today, after an industry-funded report late yesterday
showed crude stockpiles increased last week.  U.S. consumer confidence rose to the highest since February
2010, the New York-based Conference Board said yesterday.
Japan’s factory output increased 2 percent in January, and South
Korea’s industrial production rose 3.3 percent, according to the
nations’ governments today. All the increases beat the median
economist estimates in Bloomberg surveys.  Building Sanctions  New York crude has advanced this year as the West builds
sanctions against Iran. Many countries are curtailing purchases
of oil from the country and the U.S. anticipates “a very hard-
nosed negotiation” with  Iran  over its nuclear program,
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  told the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee yesterday.  Iran has threatened to shut the Strait of Hormuz, a transit
route for a fifth of the world’s crude, in response to an
embargo. The Obama administration is in talks with the
 International Energy Agency  as the U.S. considers using its
Strategic Petroleum Reserve on concern the Persian Gulf nation
may interrupt oil supply, pushing gasoline prices higher, Energy
Secretary Steven Chu said yesterday.  The sanctions have helped boost Iranian crude prices 15
percent in 2012, while U.S. gasoline at the pump has risen to
the highest for this time of year since the Energy Department
started compiling records in 1973. Prices for motorists averaged
$3.721 a gallon, up 10 percent from a year earlier, according to
department data on Feb. 27.  Durable Goods  Iran produced 3.5 million barrels of oil a day last month,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Saudi Arabia , the
biggest member in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, pumped 9.7 million barrels a day.  Oil tumbled yesterday after the U.S. Commerce Department
said  orders  for durable goods dropped 4 percent in January, the
most in three years.  “The  U.S. economy  is one of moderate growth,” Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney, said
in a telephone interview today. “The Iranian situation is still
there and is likely to limit the extent of any downside.”  U.S. crude inventories climbed  521,000 barrels  last week,
the  American Petroleum Institute  said after the settlement. A
government report today may show they gained by 1.1 million,
according to a Bloomberg survey. Supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma ,
the delivery point for New York futures, rose 1.64 million
barrels to 33.8 million, data from the industry-funded API
showed. Distillate fuel inventories fell 3.31 million barrels
and gasoline stockpiles dropped 916,000 barrels, it said.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  