-- Oil Rallies in Late Trading for First Gain in Three Days
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-02-29T22:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/oil-rises-first-time-in-three-days-as-u-s-economic-growth-beats-forecast.html
Oil rose, capping the biggest
monthly gain since October, as the  Federal Reserve  said the
economy is expanding at a “modest to moderate pace” and U.S.
gross domestic product expanded more than forecast.  Oil gained for the first time in three days as the Federal
Reserve said manufacturing grew across the nation in its Beige
Book and the Commerce Department said the economy advanced at a
3 percent rate in the last quarter of 2011. Crude slipped as
much as 1.6 percent earlier after the Energy Department reported
inventories gained more than expected.  “Anything that helps lift expectation for demand is
bullish for oil,” said Kyle Cooper, director of research at IAF
Advisors, a Houston-based energy consulting company. “The
bigger-than-expected inventory build is overtaken by the good
economy report.”  Crude oil for April delivery gained 52 cents, or 0.5
percent, to settle at $107.07 a barrel on the Nymex. Prices,
which rose 8.7 percent for the month, have gained 8.3 percent
this year.  Brent oil for April settlement increased $1.11, or 0.9
percent, to settle at $122.66 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange. Brent gained 11 percent this month.  “Manufacturing continued to expand at a steady pace across
the nation,” with “several districts indicating gains in
 capital spending , especially in auto-related industries,” the
Fed said in the Beige Book, published two weeks before the
 Federal Open Market Committee  meets to set monetary policy.  Bernanke Testimony  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in congressional testimony
that maintaining monetary stimulus is warranted even as the
unemployment rate falls and rising oil prices may cause
inflation to rise temporarily.  “Bernanke basically said, ‘We can’t do anything about
higher gasoline prices,’” said  Stephen Schork , president of the
Schork Group in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “We are still in a
 bull market .”  The growth in the fourth-quarter GDP is the most since the
second quarter of 2010, according to the Commerce Department.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for no change in U.S.
GDP growth from the previously reported 2.8 percent gain. The
world’s largest economy expanded at a 1.8 percent rate in the
prior three months.  More Services Demand  Consumer spending  in the U.S. grew at a 2.1 percent annual
rate, reflecting a pickup in demand for services, the Commerce
Department also reported. Purchases added 1.5 percentage points
to growth, the most in a year.  “GDP was revised upward and that’s playing into the
increasing demand expectation,” said Phil Flynn, an analyst at
PFGBest in  Chicago . “The market is getting a bit of benefit
from the improving economic prospect.”  Total petroleum demand  gained 0.1 percent in the week ended
Feb. 24 to 18.3 million barrels a day, the Energy Department
said in the weekly report.  Gasoline inventories  fell 1.6 million
barrels to 229.9 million.  Distillate supplies , which include
heating oil and diesel, fell 2.07 million barrels to 141.4
million.  Oil touched a nine-month high of $109.95 a barrel Feb. 24
as the U.S. and Europe ramped up sanctions against Iran over its
nuclear program and Iran threatened to shut the Strait of
Hormuz, a transit route for a fifth of the world’s crude.  Iran produced 3.45 million barrels of oil a day last month,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Saudi Arabia , the
biggest producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, pumped 9.69 million barrels a day.  Inventories Increase  Prices fell as low as $104.84 in intraday trading after the
Energy Department said supplies rose 4.16 million barrels to
344.9 million last week.  “The inventory increase is pretty bearish and it indicated
weak demand in the U.S.,” said David McAlvany, chief executive
officer of McAlvany Financial Group in Durango,  Colorado .
“Prices should have gone lower without external factors such as
Iran.”  The  inventory gain  was almost four times the 1.1 million-
barrel increase that was the median estimate of analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey. The stockpile level was at the highest
since the week ended Sept. 9.  “The market is vulnerable to the downside,” said  Tom Bentz , a director with BNP Paribas Prime Brokerage Inc. in  New
York .  Brent’s premium to WTI rose for the first time in five days
as  inventories at Cushing ,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for
Nymex futures, increased 5.1 percent to 33.8 million barrels,
the highest level since Aug. 5. The premium widened 59 cents to
$15.59 a barrel.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 639,283
contracts as of 5:06 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 614,103
yesterday. Open interest was 1.52 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  