-- Monti Expects Agreement on Firewall This Month as Crisis Abates
-- B y   D a v i d   T w e e d ,   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   J o h n   F r a h e r
-- 2012-03-01T10:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/monti-signals-europe-sovereign-debt-crisis-abating-as-bond-spreads-narrow.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti ,
signaling the worst may be over for the euro region’s most
distressed bonds, said he expects leaders to strike a deal by
the end of the month on expanding a debt-crisis firewall.  While German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  has expressed
reluctance to discuss increasing the size of Europe’s bailout
kitty at a European Union summit in Brussels beginning today,
Monti said he’s “confident” a deal will come.  “Size matters,” said Monti in an interview yesterday at
the prime minister’s 16th-century residence in central Rome.
“If the approach to firewalls is constructive enough in Europe,
I believe we will all be in a better position to face any
further contagion effect or any resurgence of the crisis.”  Monti is heading to a meeting of euro-area finance chiefs
before the leaders’ summit as 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion)
of emergency cash from the  European Central Bank  helps push the
yield on  Italy ’s 10-year bonds -- and their risk premium to
German securities -- to the lowest in six months.  “I don’t think it is likely” that spreads will widen
again, Monti, 68, said in the interview, sitting in an ante-room
of the Chigi Palace adorned by two 17th-century globes, a
chandelier and gold-colored wallpaper. “The unpredictability of
spreads is not negligible. But we see now in the case of Italy a
steady, although gradual decline in the last several weeks. I
don’t see honestly any reasons why this course should change.”  Bonds Gain  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond fell 10 basis points
today to 5.09 percent, reducing the difference with similar
maturity German debt to 325 basis points, down from a euro-era
record of 576 basis points on Nov. 9, a week before Monti was
sworn in. Italy’s two-year bond yield fell 24 basis points to
1.9 percent, the first time it dipped below 2 percent since
October 2010.  Monti’s comments on the Italian spread are “brave words,
although in the short term it would not be a shock if yields
fell below 5 percent,”  Gary Jenkins , director of London-based
independent credit firm Swordfish Research, wrote in a note to
investors today.  Asked about  Germany ’s issues with increasing the firewall,
Monti said: “They didn’t say they don’t want to discuss this in
March; they prefer not to discuss this on the 1st of March.
March has, luckily enough, 31 days.”  Expanding Firewalls  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who is
chairing today’s euro finance ministers gathering, urged
governments to expand the crisis firewall as soon as possible or
risk losing momentum in the markets.  “It would not be the first time we would be a little bit
too late,” he told reporters after an appearance at a European
Parliament committee meeting yesterday.  Merkel’s government believes it’s the wrong time for a
review of the ceiling of the 500 billion-euro European Stability
Mechanism, the permanent bailout fund coming online this year, a
German official told reporters in Berlin yesterday, speaking on
the condition of anonymity. The official said narrowing bond
spreads are reducing the urgency for a decision.  Europe ’s debt crisis has eased since the ECB started
pumping unlimited amounts of three-year cash into banks in
December. In the second operation, completed yesterday, 800
financial institutions flocked to the ECB to receive 529.5
billion euros in funds.  Italian banks  borrowed a net 139 billion
euros, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Greek Default  Monti, who completed his first 100 days in office last
week, also warned against complacency surrounding a potential
Greek default after a series of recent summits as both Italian
finance minister and prime minister.  “There have been many moments when I thought this would be
a possibility,” Monti said.  The risk of a Greek default loomed last month as the
country struggled to put together new austerity measures
demanded by European leaders for a second bailout. German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  compounded the angst by
saying on Feb. 14 that Europe is better prepared than it was two
years ago for a Greek collapse.  “I don’t believe that anybody could be sure of this
because it would be a rather unpredictable scenario and sequence
of events,” Monti said. “Better not to do the experiment.”  Euro-area finance ministers will probably officially
complete the second Greek rescue package today, an official told
reporters on condition of anonymity.  ‘Brutal Outcome’  If leaders “had not come to an agreement on the second
package, this might have brought a brutal outcome for  Greece ,”
said Monti. That would have led to “contagion effects flowing
to  Spain , Italy, in spite of the good progress being made by
these countries.”  Monti, who leads an unelected government of non-
politicians, has drawn plaudits from investors since taking
charge on Nov. 16 amid the country’s worst financial crisis in
two decades.  The former European competition commissioner initially
moved to shore up Italy’s finances by overhauling the pension
system and adopting 20 billion euros of austerity measures to
balance Italy’s budget next year. His government is moving to
crack down on  tax evasion  and overhaul rigid labor laws to spur
competitiveness and growth in an economy that expanded at an
annual average of 0.4 percent in the decade through 2010.  Fourth Recession  The spending cuts and higher taxes included in the
austerity package contributed to pushing the economy into its
fourth recession since 2001, and the European Commission
predicted last month a 1.3 percent contraction this year. The
country’s jobless rate jumped to 9.2 percent in January, the
highest in more than a decade, the national statistics institute
said today in  Rome .  Monti said his government is seeking to “kick start” a
cultural change to convince Italians that paying taxes, creating
a meritocracy, and promoting competition will sustain growth and
help cut the euro region’s second-biggest debt.  “We will not complete a generational change, that is, a
change which normally requires a generation, in 12 or 15
months,” said Monti, whose official residence teems with coat-
tailed attendants in bow ties. “But it’s important to kick-
start it.”  The premier said that even though the overhaul of Italy
will take years, he didn’t expect to be asked to seek a second
term after the next elections, due in spring next year.  “If I do with my colleagues in government our job very
well, I don’t think it is very likely that I will be asked,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Tweed in Tokyo at 
 dtweed@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  