-- Monti Keeps Political Future Open to Carry Out Overhaul of Italian Economy
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s ,   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n   a n d   D a v i d   T w e e d
-- 2012-03-01T08:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/monti-links-political-future-to-success-in-overhauling-italian-economy.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said his
government is trying to “kick start” an economic overhaul in
Italy that can’t be completed during his stint in office and
declined to rule out a return to politics after his term ends.  Monti is trying to convince Italians that by paying taxes,
encouraging meritocracy, and spurring competition the country
can boost an anemic growth rate and help bring down the euro-
region’s second-biggest debt.  “We will not complete a generational change -- that is, a
change which normally requires a generation -- in 12 or 15
months,” Monti said in an interview yesterday at the premier’s
16th-century residence in central Rome. “But it’s important to
kick-start it.”  Monti, a former European Union commissioner who took office
Nov. 16 amid surging bond yields, has overhauled the pension
system and pushed through 20 billion euros ($27 billion) in tax
hikes and spending cuts as well as measures to deregulate
services and cut red tape. His efforts, bolstered by European
Central Bank lending to banks, have led  Italy ’s 10-year
borrowing costs to plunge more than two percentage points from a
euro-era high 7.26 percent on Nov. 25.  The premier, whose approval rating rose to 59 percent in an
IPR Marketing poll released Feb. 28, has repeatedly said he’ll
leave politics after his term ends. Politicians including Pier Ferdinando Casini of the Union of Centrists have said Monti
could be offered a second term after next year’s elections.  Second Term?  “If I do with my colleagues in government our job very
well, I don’t think it is very likely that I will be asked” to
serve another term, he said.  The government, which aims to erase the deficit in 2013,
may soon reap benefits from its prudent planning, Monti said.
Because his budget was based on estimated borrowing costs of
about 7 percent, Italy will be rewarded with “a decline on the
expenditure side in terms of interest rate spending” if yields
stay at current levels, he said.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond fell 2 basis points to a
six-month low of 5.16 percent at 9:03 a.m. in  Rome , lowering the
difference with similar maturity German debt to 335 basis
points. That’s down from a euro-era record of 575 basis points
on Nov. 9.  Risk Premium  “I don’t think it is likely” that yield spreads will
widen again, Monti said. “The unpredictability of spreads is
not negligible. But we see now in the case of Italy a steady,
although gradual decline in the last several weeks. I don’t see
honestly any reasons why this course should change.”  Monti’s government of non-politicians, seeking to overhaul
the economy before the legislature’s term ends in spring 2013,
depends for support on the parties in Parliament, including his
predecessor  Silvio Berlusconi ’s People of Liberty party. Monti,
an economist and former professor, said the parties are helping
his Cabinet forge a “new approach to public decision making.”  “Italian citizens are perceiving this,” he said, sitting
under a chandelier in the Chigi Palace and flanked by two 17th-
century globes. The world sees “Italy is shifting gear toward a
somewhat less Byzantine and un-transparent way of decision
making,” said Monti, 68.  Italy’s 1.9 trillion-euro public debt amounts to 119
percent of gross domestic product, the second-biggest in the
euro region after  Greece . Monti has said that Italy can only
lower that debt burden by spurring the country’s stagnant growth
rate, which has averaged 0.4 percent in the decade through 2010,
compared with a euro-region average of 1.2 percent.  Labor Law  The premier said he was also confident that talks with
unions and employers over overhauling Italy’s rigid labor
markets, including rules making it difficult to fire workers,
will yield an agreement. The issue has befuddled past premiers
who attempted similar changes, such as Berlusconi in 2002, and
led to assassinations of economists in 1999 and 2002.  Monti said it’s different now, and the time may now be ripe
to increase labor mobility, productivity and overhaul welfare.
“I’m confident that this decisive step of modernization of the
Italian economy is by now understood by public opinion and by
the unions,” the premier said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Rome at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net ;
David Tweed in Rome at 
 dtweed@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  