-- More Storms Expected in Central U.S. After Seven Deaths
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-02-29T21:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/more-severe-weather-coming-to-central-u-s-after-storms-kill-16.html
More storms are expected today in
the central U.S., where powerful thunderstorms and tornadoes
have killed at least seven people in the past two days.  Tornadoes have struck in at least six states, including one
that killed six people near Harrisburg,  Illinois , according to
Chris Vaccaro, a spokesman for the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration in Silver Spring, Maryland.  One person was killed and four injured in Barry, Missouri,
yesterday, according to the U.S.  Storm Prediction Center  in
Norman, Oklahoma.  “There’s a lot of areas that can have severe thunderstorms
today,” Vaccaro said by telephone. “Possibly anywhere from
Ohio down to  North Carolina , but the bull’s-eye of where it
could be the strongest would be parts of Kentucky, Tennessee and
the northern fringes of Mississippi, Alabama and western North
Carolina.”  Thunderstorms and tornadoes were the deadliest type of
natural disaster in the U.S. in 2011, killing at least 552
people and causing $25 billion in insured losses, according to
the Insurance Information Institute in  New York .  From 1991 to 2010, tornadoes caused 30 percent of all
catastrophic losses in the U.S., second only to hurricanes,
which accounted for 44 percent, according to the institute.  Tornado Watches  Tornado watches are now in effect in Alabama, Mississippi,
 Kentucky , West Virginia, Virginia, Ohio and Tennessee, meaning
the destructive storms have the potential to form, according to
the  National Weather Service .  The tornado that struck Harrisburg is believed to be an EF-
4, the second most-powerful on the scale, with top winds of 170
miles (275 kilometers) per hour, according to the weather
service. It is the third EF-4 to hit Illinois since 1950,
Vaccaro said.  The tornadoes are being spawned by the same system that has
prompted winter storm watches and warnings from North Dakota to
 Maine  and is delaying air traffic along the East Coast from
Philadelphia to Boston.  “This is a classic, mature winter storm,” Vaccaro said.
“We have cold and snow across the northern fringe and severe
thunderstorms and tornadoes in the south.”  Air-Traffic Delays  Weather-related air traffic delays ranging from 36 minutes
at New York’s La Guardia Airport to more than two hours in
Philadelphia have been reported today, according to the Federal
Aviation Administration website. Delays have also been reported
in Boston,  Washington  and  Newark  and at John F. Kennedy
International Airport in New York, according to the FAA.  Worcester Regional Airport in  Massachusetts  was closed at 4
p.m., according to the FAA.  Boston is expected to receive 3 to 6 inches of snow from
the storm, which will bring rain to New York, according to the
weather service.  Montreal may receive 6 to 8 inches, according to
 Environment Canada .  A tornado tore through the country-music resort town of
Branson,  Missouri , overnight, damaging a motel, restaurant and
knocking power poles, according to storm center.  In addition to tornadoes, wind gusts of more than 60 mph
have been recorded across Kentucky and blamed for destroying
buildings, knocking down trees and dropping hail the size of a
U.S. 25-cent piece, according to the storm center.  A second storm is expected to sweep through the region the
day after tomorrow, which may spawn another round of tornadoes
and severe thunderstorms, Vaccaro said.  “This is the time of the year that we start seeing the
threat of severe weather becoming more common and more
widespread,” Vaccaro said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  