-- U.K. Mortgage Approvals Hit 2-Year High on Tax-Holiday Rush
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-02-29T11:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/mortgage-approvals-climb-to-two-year-high-in-u-k-as-tax-holiday-nears-end.html
U.K.  mortgage approvals  rose to the
highest for more than two years in January as first-time buyers
rushed to take advantage of a property-tax exemption before it
ends next month.  Lenders granted 58,728 loans to buy homes, compared with
55,019 the previous month, the Bank of England said today in
 London . It was the fourth successive monthly increase and the
biggest since June 2009.  The figures reflect the March 24 expiration of a two-year
stamp-duty holiday for first-time buyers purchasing a home for
less than 250,000 pounds ($396,000).  Rising unemployment  and
weak  consumer confidence  may damp demand in coming months.  “Despite the recent pick up, housing market activity is
still low compared to long-term norms,” said  Howard Archer , an
economist at IHS Global Insight in London. “And despite current
signs of improvement, the economic fundamentals still look far
from rosy for the housing market with unemployment high and
likely to rise further, earnings growth muted, debt levels high
and the outlook uncertain. In addition, credit conditions may
well tighten, making it harder to get a mortgage.”  Approvals are running at little more than half the pace
seen in  2007 (UKMSVTVX) , the final year of Britain’s decade-long housing
boom. Still, Archer forecast the decline in  house prices  this
year may be limited to 3 percent, instead of the 5 percent
previously predicted, and said there is a growing possibility
values may not fall at all.  Home-Buying Costs  The pound rose against the dollar after today’s report and
was trading at $1.5945 as of 11:18 a.m. in London, up 0.3
percent on the day. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
government bond was up 1 basis point at 2.111 percent.  The ending of the  stamp-duty holiday , introduced by the
previous Labour government in 2010 in an effort to spur the
 property market , will add as much as 2,500 pounds to the cost of
purchasing a home for many new buyers.  David Cameron ’s
Conservative-led government scrapped the concession on the
grounds it had not been as effective as expected.  Net mortgage lending was 1.61 billion pounds in January.
Net  consumer credit  totaled 148 million pounds. Consumers repaid
3 million pounds of credit-card debt. Other loans, such as
overdrafts and personal loans, rose 151 million pounds.  A measure of  M4 money-supply  the bank uses to assess the
effectiveness of its asset purchases rose 4.2 percent in the
three months through January on an annualized basis, today’s
report said. That compares with a 0.9 percent drop in the three
months through December. The gauge excludes intermediate other
financial corporations -- financial companies that specialize in
intermediating between banks, such as holding companies and non-
bank credit grantors.  Total M4 rose 1.6 percent in January from the previous
month and was down 1.8 percent on the year, the  Bank of England 
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Svenja O’Donnell} in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  