-- OTP Offers Temporary Relief on Municipal Bond Repayments
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-02-29T12:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/otp-offers-temporary-relief-on-municipal-bond-repayments-1-.html
OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest
lender, is offering to fix the  exchange rate  on Swiss franc-
denominated municipal bonds at almost 17 percent below market
rates as it seeks to prevent an increase in bad loans.  Municipalities can fix the exchange rate on their Swiss-
franc denominated municipality bond repayments at 200 forint per
franc for a three-year period, OTP Managing Director Pal Kovacs
said at a press conference in Budapest today. The difference
resulting from fixed and market rates will be booked in a
separate forint account, will carry an interest and will have to
be repaid after 2014.  “This structure won’t solve the overall problem of
municipality debt, however it helps in offering stable and
predictable debt financing at a time when local councils’
liquidity position isn’t at its strongest,” OTP Deputy Chief
Executive Officer Laszlo Wolf said today. He predicts other
banks will announce similar products.  Local governments are struggling to repay their foreign-
currency debt as the forint weakened and a grace period on bond
principal repayments ran out in 2011. Local administrations have
increasingly borrowed in foreign currencies since 2007 after the
government reduced funding to municipalities to cut the budget
 deficit , which in 2006 was the widest in the European Union at
9.3 percent of economic output.  Municipal Debt Total  Total municipality debt stood at 983 billion forint ($4.6
billion) at the end of 2011, of which franc-denominated debt was
413 billion forint. OTP had 98 billion forint in franc-
denominated municipality bonds on its books in the period and a
non-performing loan ratio of less than 3 percent, Wolf said.  The forint has weakened 40 percent against the Swiss franc
since the middle of 2008, when the bulk of franc-denominated
bonds were issued. The currency has gained 8.9 percent against
the euro this year, the best global performance.  Local governments had an average grace period of 3.8 years
before the start of the principal payment of their bonds, ending
in 2011 for 45 percent of them, Price Waterhouse Coopers said in
a study last year.  Six of Hungary’s seven biggest banks have foreign parents,
including  Italy ’s  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
Austria’s  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Germany ’s BayernLB. Only OTP
Bank Nyrt. is still domestically owned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  