-- House Bill Would Preserve Tariffs to Offset China Subsidies
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-02-29T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/house-bill-would-preserve-tariffs-to-offset-china-subsidies.html
The U.S. Commerce Department would
be allowed to apply duties to offset government subsidies in
nations such as  China (TBBLCHNA)  and  Vietnam  under bipartisan House
legislation to be introduced today, congressional aides said.  The measure marks a response to a Dec. 19 decision by a
U.S. appeals court in Washington that said existing law doesn’t
authorize the agency to set tariffs on goods from countries
lacking a domestic market to set prices.  The court ruling challenged a Commerce Department policy in
place since the administration of former President  George W. Bush  that led to duties on undervalued imports of two dozen
Chinese products. Companies that have benefited from the duties
include U.S. steel and paper manufacturers.  The House bill will be introduced by Representative  Dave Camp  of Michigan, Republican chairman of the House Ways and
Means Committee, and  Kevin Brady , a Texas Republican on the
panel, as well as  Sander Levin  of Michigan, the ranking Democrat
on the committee, and Jim McDermott, a Washington Democrat,
according to the congressional aides, who spoke on condition of
anonymity before today’s scheduled announcement.  In December, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit ruled unanimously that congressional action would be
needed to grant the agency power to set tariffs on subsidized
goods from nations that lack a domestic market. The three-judge
panel upheld a U.S. Court of International Trade decision that
found a Commerce Department action on Chinese tires was illegal.  Subsidized Products  Under laws passed in 1988 and 1994, “Congress adopted the
position that countervailing duty law,” which applies to
subsidized products, “does not apply to non-market economy
countries,” Timothy Dyk wrote in the decision in the case, GPX
International Tire Corp. v. U.S.  “If Commerce believes that the law should be changed, the
appropriate approach is to seek legislative change,” Dyk wrote.
The appeals court rejected arguments by  Titan International
Inc. (TWI) , the top U.S. maker of off-road tires, Bridgestone Americas
Inc., a unit of Tokyo-based  Bridgestone Corp. (5108) , and the AFL-CIO
labor federation.  The bill that the lawmakers plan to introduce today would
accomplish that change, according to the aides.  A bipartisan group of legislators plans to introduce a
similar bill in the Senate, the congressional aides said.  Anti-dumping duties apply to goods sold overseas at or
below the price in the home country. Countervailing duties aim
to offset the benefits of government subsidies to industries.  The U.S. uses more than 300 anti-dumping and countervailing
duty orders to shield American-made goods, from honey to bedroom
furniture, against global competition it deems unfair and
damaging to U.S. companies. About half the orders target iron
and steel products.  China  accounts for a third of all U.S. unfair trade cases,
the most of any country, including about 100 anti-dumping and
two dozen countervailing duty orders, according to the U.S.
International Trade Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  