-- Oxford Gets $26 Million From Fund for Music Mogul Ahmet Ertegun
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-02-29T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/oxford-gets-26-million-scholarships-in-memory-of-rock-mogul-ahmet-ertegun.html
Music mogul Ahmet Ertegun’s widow is
giving $26 million to Oxford University.  The money will pay for at least 35 graduate students to get
Mica and Ahmet Ertegun Scholarships each year. The gift also
provides for a study center in the U.K. city and is the most
generous for the Humanities in the university’s 900-year
history.  “My dream is that, one day, Ertegun Scholars will be
leaders in every field,” Ertegun’s widow Mica said today in an
e-mailed release. “When there is so much strife, it is
tremendously important to support those things that endure and
make the world a more humane place.”  Ertegun co-founded Atlantic Records and shaped the careers
of Led Zeppelin,  Eric Clapton ,  Ray Charles , the Rolling Stones
and many others. Oxford is competing for funds from private
benefactors to keep its reputation as a top university. The
donation follows the establishment of the Said Business School
and many others over the centuries, such as Rhodes House and
Nuffield College.  The graduate programe starts immediately with 15 awards a
year, rising to 35. It will be endowed in perpetuity to cover
fields such as literature, history, music, archaeology,
philosophy, art history, Asian and Middle Eastern studies.  “It allows us to ensure that the very best minds are
supporting the university’s research endeavor now,” Oxford
Chancellor Chris Patten said in the release.  Concert Program  The Ertegun House is a five-story Georgian building in the
center of Oxford. It will be ready by the Michaelmas Term
starting in September and will have a full-time Ertegun Senior
Scholar in Residence who will mentor students and oversee a
program of lectures, seminars and concerts.  “For Ahmet and for me,” Mica Ertegun said, “one of the
great joys of life has been the study of history, music,
languages, literature, art and archaeology.” The Romanian-born
widow is an interior designer who lives in  New York .  Once they have won a place at Oxford through the usual
postgraduate selection system, Ertegun Scholars will be selected
by a committee made up of the head of Oxford’s Division of
Humanities and other academics from faculties including
classics, English, fine art and languages. The gift will
ultimately amount to more than $26 million, according to the
release.  Government Pressure  “At a time when, in the U.K., government support for the
Humanities is under intense pressure,” said Andrew Hamilton,
Oxford’s vice-chancellor, “vision and generosity like this is
going to be what saves the field for future generations.”  Ertegun, an industry leader for six decades, died in New
York in 2006 from a head injury suffered when he fell backstage
at a  Rolling Stones  concert. He was 83. A  London  benefit concert
for the Ahmet Ertegun Education Fund, providing students with
annual scholarships to universities in the U.S., U.K. and
 Turkey , made headlines in December 2007 when the three surviving
members of Led Zeppelin reunited for the event.  Information:  http://bit.ly/z7HjDE   To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 