-- Lloyds Takes $18.2 Billion of Three-Year Money From ECB
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-02-29T14:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/lloyds-takes-11-4-billion-pounds-on-three-year-money-from-ecb.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
second-biggest taxpayer-assisted lender, said that it took 11.4
billion pounds ($18.2 billion) of three-year loans from the
 European Central Bank  at today’s auction.  “Lloyds can confirm it has drawn 11.4 billion pounds under
the LTRO for an initial term of three years,” the London-based
bank said in an e-mailed statement today. “The aim is to part
fund a pool of non-core euro-denominated assets.”  Lloyds was one of 800 banks that took an unprecedented
529.5 billion euros ($712 billion) for 1,092 days from the
Frankfurt-based central bank, topping the 489 billion euros
handed out to 523 institutions in the previous operation in
December. Lloyds didn’t take any funds from the ECB’s previous
auction.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest bank, said this week
that it would take about 350 million euros of loans at the
auction after taking 5.2 billion euros previously. A  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  spokesman declined to comment on whether
the bank had taken money from the ECB at its latest offering
after borrowing 5 billion pounds last year.  The Longer Term Refinancing Operation is “offering
relatively cheap funding,” RBS Finance Director Bruce Van Saun
said at a press conference in London last week. “There is very
little stigma around banks taking it in reasonable doses.”  The ECB is providing the banking system with cheap money in
an effort to avert a credit crunch after the market for
unsecured bank debt seized up last year and funding from U.S.
money markets disappeared. Any bank in the region can borrow an
unlimited amount, provided it pledges eligible collateral.
Lenders won’t face curbs on bonuses or dividends, according to
the ECB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Bailey at 
 sbailey16@bloomberg.net  