-- Pandit Fast Money With Hedge Funds Proving Citi Dead End
-- B y   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r ,   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-02-29T00:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/pandit-fast-money-with-hedge-funds-proves-citigroup-dead-end-with-spinoffs.html
Vikram Pandit knows one way to make
big money in hedge funds: sell them.  In July 2007, Pandit sold Old Lane Partners LP to  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  for $800 million and pocketed $165 million for his stake.
Then he took over the bank’s in-house hedge-fund group, now
called  Citi Capital Advisors , or CCA. He became chief executive
officer of the whole company just five months later.  For Pandit, the hedge-fund business was a sprint to riches.
For Citigroup, it’s been a slog, Bloomberg Markets magazine
reports in its April issue. When Pandit, 55, was promoted in
December 2007, CCA managed $59 billion in hedge funds, private-
equity pools and real estate. In 2007, it earned net income --
from fees charged to clients and gains on its own money -- of
$672 million.  After the financial crisis, Citigroup closed some funds --
it won’t say how many -- and investors fled others. As of mid-
February, it managed $18.6 billion. The last time Citi told
shareholders how CCA performed was the first quarter of 2008,
when the unit lost $509 million. Four of Citi’s seven biggest
hedge funds have underperformed their indexes since they
started, according to investors. Five of the seven lost money in
2011.  Pandit persevered. Since 2008, he has opened or purchased
at least six new funds. In the third quarter of 2011, he
invested $800 million of the bank’s own money -- not cash from
investors or clients -- into CCA, even as traders from  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and other banks were jumping ship to start
their own hedge funds in advance of the Volcker rule.  Volcker Rule  That law, championed by former  Federal Reserve  Chairman
 Paul Volcker  and made part of the Dodd-Frank Act, says a
deposit-taking bank’s proprietary capital can’t account for more
than 3 percent of any hedge fund.  In at least four of Citi’s funds, half or more of the
assets have come from Citi’s own  balance sheet  during the past
two years, not from investors or clients of its private bank,
according to interviews with people familiar with the funds and
documents obtained by Bloomberg Markets. That has to change by
the time the Volcker rule is fully implemented; it is scheduled
to take effect in July and includes a two-year transition
period.  So, in February, Pandit capitulated.  John Havens ,
Citigroup’s chief operating officer and the chairman of CCA,
told Bloomberg News that the bank planned to sell a
“significant” portion of CCA to managers of the group.  Best Talent  The organization will ultimately be independent of Citi,
which will help hedge-fund and private-equity managers raise
money from outside investors, says Havens, 55, who worked with
Pandit when both were executives at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and co-
founded Old Lane with him.  “Clients like independent, alternative asset managers,”
Havens says in his office in downtown Manhattan. “You can
attract the best talent in the owner-operator model.”  Citi plans on keeping a stake in CCA, although the
percentage will drop as assets from outside investors come in
and the bank takes its own money out of the funds, Havens says.  “We like the business; that’s why we took the decisions in
2008 to rebuild it,” he says.  The details and timing of the sale aren’t final, including
who will run it, Havens says. He declined to say whether
Jonathan Dorfman and  James O’Brien , CCA’s co-heads, would be
part of the deal.  Friends of Vikram  Dorfman, 50, and O’Brien, 51, who both worked with Pandit
at Morgan Stanley, are confidantes of the Citigroup CEO and of
Havens, to whom they report. The leaders of other units,
including mergers advice and private banking, answer to James “Jamie” Forese, head of Citi’s securities and banking division,
of which CCA is a unit.  The fund managers eligible to be part of the  management
buyout  also have ties to Pandit and Havens. Mukesh Patel,
manager of the Event Driven Fund, and two of his assistants came
from Old Lane. Kevin Bespolka, manager of the Global Macro Fund,
worked for Pandit there too, as did Manu Rana, manager of the
Financial Partners Fund.  The decision to sell the hedge and private-equity funds
comes at a time when Citigroup is still recovering from its
 near-death experience  four years ago. Citi needed $45 billion
from the Troubled Asset Relief Program, $99 billion in loans
from the Federal Reserve and $301 billion in government asset
guarantees to stay alive. Its stock declined 33 percent in the
12 months ended on Feb. 13.  Asset Sales  Pandit split the bank in 2009, creating a unit called Citi
Holdings, where he sequestered securities built from subprime
mortgages and other toxic investments. He has offloaded various
enterprises and assets, including life insurer  Primerica Inc. (PRI) 
and Student Loan Corp.  He sold 51 percent of the bank’s  Smith Barney  brokerage to
Morgan Stanley, where he worked for 22 years before starting Old
Lane. Morgan Stanley Smith Barney is a joint venture between the
two banks.  It makes sense for Citigroup to add its hedge and private-
equity funds to the discard pile, says Richard Staite, an
analyst at Atlantic Equities LLP in  London . The bank should play
to its strengths --  consumer lending  and emerging-markets
finance -- says Staite, who has an  “overweight” rating  on Citi
shares. “Strategically, they should be able to exit that and
focus on lower-risk businesses,” he says.  Jeff Haindl, who runs the hedge-fund business at Zurich-
based Falcon Private Bank Ltd., says the banking and fund-
management cultures are a bad fit.  Independent Funds  “It’s difficult for banks, for internal and increasingly
for political and regulatory reasons, to offer compensation
that’s competitive with independent hedge funds,” Haindl says.  That’s why none of the biggest names in the industry --
such as  Steven A. Cohen  of SAC Capital Advisors LP,  Ray Dalio  of
Bridgewater Associates LP and  George Soros  of Soros Fund
Management LLC -- are at banks. Like the independents, managers
at banks get paid to perform, Haindl says, yet many collect
salaries and bonuses, which are less directly tied to their
returns.  Investors say Citi’s funds will need stronger performance
than they’ve shown in recent years to attract the outside
capital Havens is seeking. The worst performer among the seven
largest funds last year was the Strategic Credit Fund, which
lost 14.2 percent, according to people who were solicited to
invest. Credit funds, on average, climbed 1.5 percent in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The $200 million fund
is run by Fred Hoffman and manages mostly Citi capital.  Lagging  The $400 million Mortgage/Credit Opportunity Fund, managed
by Rajesh Kumar, lost 4.2 percent in 2011, including a 10
percent dive in August. The loss is striking because mortgage
funds were the best performers among hedge funds, gaining an
average of 14.5 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  Kumar’s fund returned 23 percent in 2009 and 26.5 percent
in 2010, according to documents obtained by Bloomberg Markets.
Betting that mortgages would continue to rise last year, he
bought up shares in  CreXus (CXS)  Investment Corp., a New York-based
firm that invests in commercial mortgage-backed securities.  Kumar also pumped money into Rayonier Inc. and Weyerhaeuser
Co., two U.S. timber companies that he bet would benefit from
the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in northern Japan. “As
Japan rebuilds its infrastructure over the next few years, it
will likely use a higher proportion of wood this time around, as
wood offers better protection against earthquakes,” Kumar wrote
in a March 2011 report to investors. “While the Japan crisis is
a deep tragedy, we believe it offers some long-term
opportunity.”  CreXus Falls  The play failed as the European debt crisis roiled credit
markets and sent shares of all commodities companies lower.
CreXus shares tumbled more than 20 percent in the six months
following his report. Rayonier fell 11 percent and  Weyerhaeuser (WY) 
declined 37 percent because the Japanese rebuilt more slowly
than some investors had predicted, says Joshua Barber, an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore.  Patel’s $500 million Event Driven Fund is one of
Citigroup’s better performers. Although it lost 1.8 percent last
year, it has posted an average annual return of 8.5 percent
since it was started in July 2008, compared with 2.4 percent for
Hedge Fund Research Inc.’s index of funds that invest based on
mergers, restructurings and other corporate events. Still, Patel
has had trouble raising outside money. As of April 2010, all of
the assets in the fund belonged to Citi, according to a CCA
marketing brochure.  Franklin Excels  Another standout is the London-based Emerging Markets
Special Opportunities Fund, which trades developing-country
bonds and is Citigroup’s largest, with $900 million in assets.
Run by Mark Franklin, the fund lost just 3.4 percent in 2008,
when the average hedge fund tumbled 19 percent, according to
Bloomberg data. Since Franklin started the fund in May 2000,
it’s jumped 10.4 percent a year, on average, ahead of Hedge Fund
Research’s Emerging Markets Index.  Even with underperformance and the inability of some funds
to attract outside cash, Havens praises Dorfman and O’Brien’s
work.  “I’m a rough judge; I want everything yesterday,” Havens
says. “But the team has done a very good job in transforming the
business, attracting the talent, building up the
infrastructure.”  Dorfman and O’Brien’s efforts to run CCA under Pandit and
Havens have been hampered by more than underperforming funds.
Burned investors have also plagued the unit, seeking to regain
millions of dollars they say CCA managers have squandered. Two
investors from Aspen, Colorado -- attorney Gerald Hosier and
venture capitalist Jerry Murdock Jr. -- were awarded $54.1
million in April 2011 by a three-person mediation panel convened
by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or Finra.  ASTA/MAT  Hosier and Murdock said they lost $26.9 million in 2008
investing in municipal bond arbitrage hedge funds that Citigroup
had marketed as low risk. The funds, called ASTA/MAT, used
borrowed money to try to extract high, consistent returns from
the muni market.  Citi asked a federal district court judge in Denver to
throw out the award, alleging that Hosier and Murdock had signed
documents acknowledging that they knew they could sustain
losses. Citi filed a trove of documents, and the plaintiffs
filed more, including e-mails from Citi sales personnel
depicting the funds as higher-yielding, yet safe, alternatives
to ordinary fixed-income securities.  In December, Judge Christine Arguello ruled for Hosier and
Murdock and affirmed the award, which is among the largest ever
for individual investors. More than three dozen other cases have
been settled, according to Phil Aidikoff, the Beverly Hills,
California, lawyer who represented Hosier and Murdock. There are
more than 60 to go.  Taped Meeting  Dorfman and O’Brien joined Citi in late 2007 when Pandit
bought their hedge fund, Carlton Hill Global Capital LLC. They
took charge of the bank’s fixed-income hedge funds, including
the muni arbitrage funds. On Dec. 18, 2007, Dorfman and O’Brien
called a meeting with Reaz Islam, manager of the muni funds.
Islam recorded the conversation.  Dorfman and O’Brien told Islam that they were going to
remove him from his job and have him set up and market a new
fund. Islam protested, saying the funds could recover once the
debt markets rebounded.  Dorfman became impatient.  “One thing I have a problem with is everybody at this firm
tends to say, ‘Well, it was just the market,’” he said. “That’s
why the  firm’s stock price  is half of what it was this summer. I
can’t live with that.”  O’Brien and Dorfman pressed Islam to come up with the names
of 10 people they could fire to cut costs.  “Tell me now,” O’Brien said. “That’s what I want to see.
That’s what I asked you for three weeks ago and again yesterday.
I said, ‘Show me the names.’”  ‘Nuclear Winter’  Islam pleaded to let the employees stay until they got
their bonuses. Dorfman and O’Brien declined to comment on the
2007 conversation.  Three months later, Citi’s private bankers raged against
the hedge-fund unit, accusing it of angering wealthy private-
bank clients who had invested in the muni funds.  “Respectfully, this is Nuclear Winter!” wrote one, Andrew Basch, to  Sallie Krawcheck , who then ran the wealth management
unit. “In no uncertain terms did anyone ever infer a risk of
this magnitude in any conference calls or live meetings.”  Islam left Citi in August 2008. Contacted in Dhaka,
Bangladesh, where he is a managing partner for New York-based LR
Global Partners, Islam says Hosier, Murdock and other investors
in the muni funds were well aware of the dangers.  ‘Idiot Proof’  “We talked about every risk in the prospectus,” he says.
“The marketing materials, including the term sheet risk
disclosures, were comprehensive, written in plain English and
idiot-proof.”  Dorfman and O’Brien tapped Craig Henick, another municipal-
bond-fund manager, to take over Islam’s duties, even though he
had his own troubles. In 2007, seven Norwegian towns, including
Narvik, which lies above the Arctic Circle, lost $90 million
investing in securities linked to a highly leveraged muni-bond
fund Henick managed, according to a complaint filed in August
2009 in federal district court in Manhattan. Narvik was forced
to shut off its street lights after the loss, the complaint
says. The case is pending.  The municipal-bond mess didn’t stop Citigroup from adding
more hedge funds to its collection. In November 2008, the bank
bought Epic Asset Management LLC, a fund run by James Duplessie
and Herbert Seif.  O’Connor Roots  Duplessie, now 52, and Seif, 63, met while working for
Chicago-based O’Connor & Associates, a so-called quant shop
where traders used algorithms to trade futures and options.
Seif, a Brooklyn College graduate, joined O’Connor in 1980 and
later started trading in distressed debt, a new field. Duplessie
joined O’Connor in 1991, according to a Citi biography of him.  Swiss Bank Corp. bought O’Connor in 1992, and the pair ran
the SBC Restructuring and Recovery Fund. Union Bank of
Switzerland merged with Swiss Bank in 1998 to form  UBS AG. (UBSN)  After
the 1998 Russian debt default and the collapse of hedge fund
Long-Term Capital Management LP, UBS cut back on risk. In 1999,
Seif and Duplessie shut their fund, according to a person who
was at the bank at the time and knew the men.  They got back together in 2002 and started Epic in Fort
Lee,  New Jersey . Epic returned 31 percent in 2003, its first
full year in operation, according to fund records. It then raked
in another 23 percent in 2004, 4 percent in 2005 and 25 percent
in 2006. By that year, Epic had $140 million under management,
according to a presentation on the fund prepared that April.  Imax in Eilat  Epic was just one of Seif’s pursuits in those days,
according to a former investor in the fund. He also owned an
Imax movie theater in Eilat, Israel, and built a large house in
Jerusalem, where he spent as much time as he could, the former
investor says. Seif declined to comment.  Epic’s performance faltered in 2007, when the fund dropped
3 percent. Returns deteriorated rapidly in 2008; the fund lost
15 percent in October alone. Nonetheless, in November Citi
bought it for an undisclosed sum. It ended the year down 41
percent, according to a fund document.  At Epic, Duplessie and Seif had seldom made themselves
available to talk to clients, former investors say, and the
situation worsened at Citi, where they run the $240 million
Distressed Debt Opportunity Fund. Investors who succeeded in
getting Seif on the phone with a question about performance
would be told to contact the chief financial officer of CCA.  Still Down  Duplessie and Seif posted better returns after the crisis,
gaining 22 percent in 2009 and 19 percent in 2010. That’s not
enough to make up for 2008. Investors who were in the fund
before then are still down about 19 percent. The distressed-debt
fund has returned 5.84 percent a year since it was launched in
April 2002 compared with 8.6 percent for the Hedge Fund Research
Distressed Index.  Citigroup is now marketing a new fund, called the Middle
Market Direct Lending Fund, to be run by Duplessie and Seif,
even though Citi’s own cash made up 65 percent of the existing
distressed debt fund’s assets as recently as December 2010.  Havens says he set out in 2010 to raise $3 billion from
institutional investors to invest in CCA funds, and he has
already pulled in $2.6 billion -- though he won’t say how much
of it has gone to hedge funds as opposed to private equity.  “They’re critically important clients for this company,” he
says of the investors.  The question is whether the fund group that was once Vikram
Pandit’s personal domain will do better, and attract investor
money, when it’s no longer part of Citigroup.  Editors: Michael Serrill, Robert Dieterich  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony Effinger in Portland, Oregon, at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net 
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net 
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net .
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net 
David Scheer at +1-212-617-2358 or  dscheer@bloomberg.net  