-- Parkinson’s Drug Helps Speed Recovery After Brain Trauma, Researchers Say
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-03-01T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/parkinson-s-drug-helps-speed-recovery-after-brain-trauma-researchers-say.html
A drug for  Parkinson’s disease 
accelerated the ability of patients with severe brain injuries
to open their eyes and speak, providing what researchers said is
the first evidence that a medical treatment might help speed
head trauma recovery.  Patients taking the medicine, amantadine, for four weeks
regained cognitive functioning faster than those on a placebo,
according to the 184-patient  study  published online yesterday in
the New England Journal of Medicine. The rate of recovery
declined in two weeks after treatment and it’s unknown whether
the drug aided long-term improvement.  Traumatic brain injuries are the most common cause of death
and disability for people ages 15 to 30, the researchers said.
While amantadine is often prescribed for patients in vegetative
or “minimally conscious” states after such injuries, little
clinical research has been done on its safety and efficacy, said
study author  Joseph Giacino , director of rehabilitation
neuropsychology at Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital in  Boston .  “There’s no question in my mind this is now finally some
cause for optimism in a patient population that has historically
been viewed as beyond help and, frankly, hopeless,” said
Giacino, an associate professor at  Harvard Medical School , said
in a telephone interview.  The study tested patients who were in inpatient
rehabilitation care after suffering a  traumatic brain injury 
four to 16 weeks previously. Because the study was just six
weeks long, it didn’t show whether amantadine, available as a
generic drug, would continue to help patients recover over
longer periods, the authors said.  How Helpful?  “Our study leaves an important question open: Do we help
get people to their same ultimate destination on a faster track,
or do we change their ultimate destination?” said  John Whyte ,
director of the Moss Rehabilitation Research Institute in
Philadelphia and a study author, in a telephone interview. Even
if it’s the former, he said, “we shouldn’t trivialize that.
Psychosocially, if you are a family waiting for your family
member to regain function and interact with you, it will make a
lot of difference whether you have to wait a long time or a
short time.”  Increasing cost restraints on health care also make
speedier recoveries more important, the authors wrote.  Amantadine helped patients regain behavioral abilities such
as consistently following commands and recognizing objects
faster in four weeks than those taking a placebo, the study
found.  Study Results  At that time, 40 percent of patients on amantadine could
consistently follow commands compared with 32 percent on
placebo, the study showed. Two weeks after treatment stopped, 41
percent of patients on the drug were able to follow commands,
compared with 39 percent on placebo.  Patients’ ability to speak declined after stopping
treatment with amantadine, while it continued to improve in the
placebo group. At four weeks, 39 percent of patients taking
amantadine could speak intelligibly, compared with 34 percent on
placebo. Two weeks after treatment, 36 percent on amantadine
were able to speak intelligibly, compared with 41 percent on
placebo.  That patients’ rate of recovery slowed after stopping
treatment with amantadine is “more compelling evidence the drug
is doing something,” Giacino said.  Amantadine is one of 10 to 15 drugs approved for other uses
that are prescribed off label by doctors to treat patients with
traumatic brain injury, Whyte said. Little is known about their
true effect, he said.  “Because it’s such a desperate situation and these drugs
are on the market for other purposes, a culture has developed
where doctors treat off-label with drugs like this based on
internal logic,” Whyte said. This study “says that you don’t
have to pick based on logic or hypotheses; you can pick based on
evidence.”  The study was funded by the  National Institute on
Disability and Rehabilitation Research .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  