-- Peru Expects Oil Royalties Accord With Producers by April
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-02-29T21:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/peru-sees-camisea-royalty-agreement-by-april-government-says.html
Peru ’s government expects to reach
an agreement on natural-gas royalties and domestic supply by
April with producers including Hunt Oil Co. and  Repsol YPF SA (REP) ,
the president of the state oil contracting agency said.  The seven-company Camisea group will sign an additional
accord clause to make 2.5 trillion cubic feet of its 11 trillion
cubic feet of gas reserves available for the domestic market,
President Aurelio Ochoa said. Exploration work will boost
Camisea’s reserves to supply a 20-year export contract, he said.  “There’s a mutual will to reach an accord on good terms
and it shouldn’t delay beyond April,” Ochoa said today in an
interview at his office in Lima. “In any country the world
over, the local market comes first.”  Peruvian President Ollanta Humala was elected last year on
pledges to cut natural-gas exports to  Mexico  as demand from
local power plants and petrochemical projects surges. Lack of
gas supply is delaying $10 billion in investment projects by
companies such as Duke Energy Corp., CF Industries Holdings,
Inc. and Orica Ltd., according to the National Society of
Mining, Petroleum & Energy.  Peru’s oil and gas exports jumped by 50 percent to $5
billion last year after a separate group including Hunt, Repsol
and  SK Group  of  South Korea  started a $4 billion liquefied
natural-gas export plant.  Daniel Guerra, spokesman for Camisea operator Pluspetrol
SA, didn’t immediately return telephone calls and an e-mail
seeking comment.  Oil Contracts  Peru will offer as many as 30 oil-exploration contracts in
the second half of this year, Ochoa said. The exploration
blocks, which cover areas off Peru’s Pacific coast and in the
Amazon jungle, are pending government regulation of an
indigenous consultation law next month, he said.  Companies are expected to increase investments by 13
percent to $1.7 billion in Peru’s oil and gas industry this year
and drill at least 25 exploration wells, compared with 18 last
year, Ochoa said.  Repsol, which today said it will start production this year
at its Block 57 field bordering Camisea, will supply
petrochemical projects on the south coast, Ochoa said.
Construction will begin on a $1.5 billion southern Andean  gas
pipeline  in June, he said.  Tripling Output  State oil company Petroperu SA may double installed
capacity of its 200,000 barrel-per-day oil pipeline once Repsol,
 Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  and Perenco SA start production at their
northern jungle fields, Ochoa said. The three companies may
produce a total 150,000 barrels per day by 2016, tripling Peru’s
crude output, he said.  “Crude prices above $100 a barrel are a major incentive
for these projects,” Ochoa said. “This will reverse Peru’s
status as a net oil importer.”  Crude oil for April delivery gained 52 cents, or 0.5
percent, to settle at $107.07 a barrel on the Nymex. Natural gas
for April delivery rose 9.7 cents, or 3.8 percent, to $2.616 per
million British thermal units.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in  Lima  at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 