-- Peugeot, General Motors Said to Target $2 Billion in Savings From Alliance
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-02-29T15:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/peugeot-general-motors-said-to-target-2-billion-in-savings-from-alliance.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen and  General
Motors Co. (GM)  plan to announce about $2 billion in cost savings
from their alliance, two people familiar with the matter said.  The synergies will come in part from working together to
develop new vehicles, said the people, who declined to be
identified discussing private talks. The carmakers will announce
their alliance as soon as today, the people said.  The partnership includes restructuring at GM and Peugeot
that will result in plant closures and  job cuts , said another
person familiar. The two are still working out the specifics and
will not disclose those details for several weeks or even months
due to political concerns in  France , the person said.  Peugeot,  Europe ’s second-biggest automaker  after Volkswagen
AG , announced plans this month to sell assets and delay
investments as debt more than doubled in the second half to 3.4
billion euros. GM will buy about 7 percent of the French
carmaker and take part in a 1 billion-euro ($1.34 billion)
rights offering by Peugeot, people familiar said.  “All capacity and cost reductions can only be taken
positively,” said Sascha Gommel, a Frankfurt-based Commerzbank
analyst who has a “hold” rating on Peugeot. “The capital
increase is a negative, as it dilutes earnings per share.”  Shares Rise  Peugeot  traded  down 33 cents, or 2.2 percent, at 15.04
euros at 4:52 p.m. in Paris, after rising as much as 4.6 percent
earlier. The stock has gained 24 percent this year, valuing the
company at 3.5 billion euros. GM traded 0.2 percent lower at
$26.08 in  New York .  Caroline Ho, a Peugeot spokeswoman, and Klaus-Peter Martin,
a GM spokesman, declined to comment when contacted today by
Bloomberg.  Both automakers know they need to shed jobs and factory
capacity and view the pact as a way to get political support to
do so, the person said. The deal also holds appeal to GM because
it gives them access to Peugeot’s PSA bank and another lender to
finance vehicle sales in Europe, the person said.  Political interference and strong unions have hampered both
companies from shutting factories and laying off workers to rein
in costs. French Labor Minister Xavier Bertrand warned Peugeot
Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin last week against cutting
jobs as a result of the GM deal. President  Nicolas Sarkozy ,
who’s running for re-election this year, summoned Varin on Nov.
17 to ask him to reconsider plans to cut as many as 6,800 jobs,
including temporary staff employed by partners.  European Overcapacity  PSA is projected to use just 62 percent of its European
capacity this year, compared with 74 percent at Opel, according
to LMC Automotive in Oxford,  England . Carmakers risk losses when
they use less than 90 percent of their capacity, according to
 Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for Automotive
Research at the  University of Duisburg-Essen .  Peugeot, whose origins date back to the early 19th century
laminated steel- and toolmaker Peugeot-Frères et Jacques
Maillard-Salins, is still controlled by the Peugeot family.  The company’s current chairman, Thierry Peugeot, is the
great-grandson of Eugene, who jointly led the company with his
cousin Armand when it produced its first automobile in 1891.
Thierry is joined on the board by relatives Roland, Robert and
Jean-Philippe Peugeot, and Marie-Helene Roncoroni.  Peugeot’s 2011 sales in Europe plunged 8.8 percent to 1.68
million vehicles, while GM’s dropped 1.9 percent to 1.17
million. The prospects for a turnaround aren’t improving with
auto demand in the region poised to drop for the fifth straight
year in 2012 as the sovereign debt crisis unsettles consumers.  Detroit-based GM, the world’s largest carmaker, is looking
for ways to turn around its unprofitable Opel brand. The
automaker’s Europe business, including the Opel brand, lost $747
million last year before taxes and interest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in  Frankfurt  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 