-- Piech Violated Porsche Duty With Option-Deal Comment, Court Says
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-02-29T15:17:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/piech-violated-porsche-duty-with-option-deal-comment-court-says.html
Ferdinand Piech violated his duties
when commenting in 2009 about options transactions by  Porsche SE (PAH3) 
done as part of a takeover bid for  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , a German court
said.  Piech, chairman of VW and also a member of Porsche’s
supervisory board, was wrong to tell reporters at an event in
Sardinia that he didn’t know the amount of Porsche’s option
risks and that he hadn’t sought clarity about it, the Stuttgart
Higher Regional Court said. The decision was part of a ruling
voiding votes by Porsche shareholders that discharged Piech and
the rest of the supervisory board from responsibility for fiscal
year 2008/2009, the court said in a statement.  “If you take those words literally, Piech would have
committed a grave violation of his duties as a supervisory board
member which include assessing important Porsche transactions,”
the court said. “He wouldn’t have been allowed to consent to
those transactions, should have sought more information and --if
it didn’t allow him to understand the trades -- should have
acted against them.”  The case represents one of a number of disputes stemming
from the failed Volkswagen takeover in 2009, which included
Porsche’s use of options to build its stake. Porsche racked up
more than 10 billion euros ($13.5 billion) of debt in the
process.  Piech’s words could also be understood as a critical
comment, as part of the controversy within the company at the
time, arguing that the risk from the options was incalculable,
the judge said. Such a statement is also improper because it
would endanger Porsche’s creditworthiness, the court said.  Porsche spokesman Frank Gaube said the company is
disappointed the court didn’t follow its arguments. The carmaker
said in a statement it will ask  Germany ’s top civil court to
allow an appeal of the ruling.  The case is OLG Stuttgart, 20 U 3/11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  