-- Plosser Calls for More Fed Openness to Boost Policy Impact
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-02-29T20:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/plosser-calls-for-more-fed-openness-to-boost-policy-impact-1-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said the U.S. central bank should be
more transparent to increase “the effectiveness of monetary
policy” and “accountability with the public.”  “We can and should provide more details about the
interplay between economic conditions and policy,” Plosser said
in the text of remarks he gave in New York today. “We can also
better define our reaction function, to enable the public to
better understand and anticipate future policy actions.”  Plosser said the Fed’s adoption in January of an explicit
inflation target and release of policy makers’ projections for
the appropriate path of  interest rates  were “important steps
forward,” and helped clarify the central bank’s goals. The
measures were the latest by  Ben S. Bernanke  to increase openness
and public understanding of the Fed since he became chairman in
2006.  Bernanke has begun holding regular press conferences and
voiced his views in television interviews and at town hall
meetings. He’s also announced forecasts on economic growth,
unemployment and inflation four times a year, up from twice
annually under his predecessor,  Alan Greenspan .  Plosser said the Fed should go further and give “more
information about the linkages among the economic variables and
associated policy paths.” That would make it easier for the
public to understand the ties between changes in economic
conditions and monetary policy, he said.  ‘Policy Path Assumptions’  “A natural next step would be to include a matrix of
output, inflation, and unemployment, and the associated policy
path assumptions that each policy maker submitted,” Plosser
said. Currently, it’s “only possible” to tie forecasts
together “when individual policy makers choose to reveal such
information in their speeches and other public communications.”  Plosser said in response to questions from reporters that
his policy-path projection called for the central bank to raise
its benchmark  interest rate  by the end of this year. The Fed has
kept the rate near zero since December 2008.  He forecast a 2 percent rate of inflation this year and
next, and said that if “inflation keeps drifting up it should
be cause for some watchful monitoring.” The personal
consumption expenditures price index rose 2.4 percent for the 12
months ending in December, near the Fed’s goal.  “I’m cautiously optimistic,” Plosser said. The drop in
the unemployment rate over the past year is “really
significant.”  Falling Jobless Rate  The  jobless rate  fell to 8.3 percent in January, its lowest
level since February 2009, and down from 9.1 percent in January
2011. Plosser predicted that the  unemployment rate  would decline
to 7.8 percent in 2012.  The policy path projections “over time will prove to be a
far better way to provide information about the path of policy
than using calendar dates, as we are currently doing,” Plosser
said. “Policy should be conditioned on the state of the
economy, not the calendar.”  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  said last
month its benchmark interest rate will probably stay
“exceptionally low” through at least late 2014 to help the
recovery gain traction, extending an earlier date of mid-2013.  The Fed should also “do a more comprehensive monetary
policy report four times a year,” as “most central banks that
have adopted an inflation target have also sought to improve
communication and transparency through the publication of a
regular policy report,” Plosser said, citing the  Bank of
England . Bernanke gives Congress a monetary-policy report twice
a year, including today.  Quarterly Report  “The Fed should consider producing a similar report to
elaborate and reinforce its policy framework and how it relates
to economic conditions,” Plosser said. “These reports will
help improve the public’s understanding of policy, which will
help make policy more effective and the central bank more
accountable.”  Bernanke said today in prepared testimony to the House
Financial Services Committee in  Washington  that keeping monetary
stimulus is warranted even as the unemployment rate falls and
rising oil prices may cause inflation to rise temporarily.  “At present, with the unemployment rate elevated and the
inflation outlook subdued, the committee judges that sustaining
a highly accommodative stance for monetary policy is
consistent” with promoting the Fed’s two objectives of stable
prices and maximum employment, Bernanke said today.  ‘Additional Transparency’  Bernanke said the FOMC’s announcement of a 2 percent
inflation target in January was aimed at providing “additional
transparency” and did “not imply a change in how the committee
conducts policy.” The Fed chairman said at times when the
inflation and full employment goals are not complementary, the
FOMC “follows a balanced approach in promoting them.”  While stating its 2 percent inflation target was a positive
step, Plosser said “it is not appropriate for the central bank
to set an explicit numerical goal for the maximum employment
part of our mandate,” because that rate is determined by
factors that are beyond the Fed’s control, such as demographics
and  productivity .  Plosser said if the Fed gave more details on how it reacts
to changing economic indicators, it would make monetary policy
more “systematic” and impose “an important discipline” on
central bankers.  “If we choose a consistent set of variables and
systematically use them to describe our policy choices, the
public will have a greater ability to form judgments about the
likely course of policy,” Plosser said. “This would reduce
uncertainty about policy and promote stability.”  He also reiterated his view that the Fed must protect its
independence, which is “now under attack” because of fiscal
imbalances and because the central bank engaged “in credit
allocations to particular sectors, such as housing, and bailouts
to particular firms” like Bear Stearns Cos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  