-- Poland Should Target Adopting Euro in 2016, Finance Committee Chief Says
-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 2012-02-29T16:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/poland-should-target-adopting-euro-in-2016-finance-committee-chief-says.html
Poland  should seek to adopt the euro
in 2016, said Dariusz Rosati, the head of the parliamentary
public finance committee, showing confidence that European
leaders can solve the currency union’s debt crisis.  The European Union’s largest eastern economy next year
should join the exchange-rate mechanism, a condition for the
switchover, when the euro area’s “situation has stabilized,”
Rosati, of Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s ruling party, said in a
Feb. 27 interview in Warsaw. While in the euro’s waiting room,
the country will have time to meet the other criteria, he said.  “Poland can adopt the euro in 2016 at the earliest and
that’s what we should aim for,” Rosati said. “In four years’
time, we’ll know whether the euro region is going to collapse or
strengthen. I think it will exit the crisis more robust for its
experience.”  Poland, where the majority of the public doesn’t support
the switchover, will adopt the euro only after the currency bloc
undergoes a “convincing” overhaul, Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said in December. The euro has gained 0.4 percent this
week after German deputies backed a Greek aid package that will
grant the indebted nation 130 billion euros ($175 billion)
before a March 20 debt interest payment deadline.  Zloty Gains  The zloty strengthened to 4.1151 against the euro as of
5:07 p.m. in Warsaw from 4.1303 yesterday. The yield on the
five-year bond maturing in October 2016 dropped to 4.906
percent, the lowest since Sept. 8.  The Polish currency has strengthened 8.2 percent against
the euro this year, more than any currency in the world except
the Hungarian forint. The zloty slumped 11 percent to the euro
last year, after the budget shortfall soared to 7.8 percent of
gross domestic product in 2010.  The aid package for  Greece  and the  European Central Bank ’s
emergency lending program boosting investor confidence may help
the Polish economy grow be between 3 percent and 3.5 percent
this year, Rosati said. The government’s forecast is 2.5
percent.  The budget  deficit  will narrow to within the EU limit of 3
percent of GDP “if not this year, then next year,” while
inflation will slow as the zloty strengthens, according to
Rosati.  EU Entry Requirement  Poland, required by the terms of its 2004 EU entry to adopt
the trading bloc’s common currency, doesn’t have a deadline for
the switchover. To qualify, countries must meet  requirements 
including narrowing their budget deficits and curbing inflation,
as well as spending a minimum of two years in the exchange-rate
mechanism that tests currency stability.  Of the EU’s 10 former communist members, Slovenia, Slovakia
and Estonia have adopted the euro. Moody’s Investors Service on
Feb. 13 downgraded Slovak and Slovenian debt one step to A2, the
same level as Poland.  Securing a two-thirds majority in parliament to amend the
constitution for euro adoption may be more difficult than
meeting the adoption criteria, Rosati said.  Adopting the euro would be a “catastrophe,”  Jaroslaw Kaczynski , a former prime minister who heads Poland’s biggest
opposition party, said last year, pledging to vote against any
measures that brought the switchover closer.  ‘Main Topic’  “Euro entry is going to be the main topic of the next
election campaigns in Poland, both in the European and domestic
parliamentary elections,” Rosati said. The European Parliament
vote is scheduled for 2014, with the local balloting due a year
later.  Persuading the public of the advantages of euro adoption
probably won’t be as difficult, as the currency switch would
boost the Polish economy, Rosati said. A one-time effect may be
as much as 2 percent if output and longer-term benefits such as
higher investment may add 0.7 percent to GDP, he said.  Sixty percent of Poles oppose euro adoption with 32 percent
in favor, according to a Jan. 5-11 survey of 1,058 adults by the
Warsaw-based Center for Public Research, PAP news service
reported on Feb. 14. The poll didn’t provide the margin of
error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  