-- King Says U.K. Doesn’t Need LTRO as Banks Have Enough Liquidity
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-02-29T13:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/posen-says-boe-officials-have-discussed-buying-non-gilt-assets.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
said the  European Central Bank ’s three-year loans have prevented
a bank run in the region, though in the U.K. further liquidity
action isn’t necessary.  King was asked by lawmakers today in London whether the
U.K. central bank should mimic the ECB’s operation to support
the British financial system. Euro-area banks tapped the ECB for
a record amount of cash today in its second long-term
refinancing operation. It will lend 800 financial institutions
529.5 billion euros ($712.2 billion), more than economists had
forecast.  “The prospect of a bank run in the euro area has been
removed by the activity of the ECB,” King said at a Parliament
hearing. In the U.K., the central bank “injected a vast amount
of liquidity, so the one thing which the British banking system
is not short of, is liquidity. If anything, it needs more
capital in order to persuade the private sector to lend to it.”  His comments were echoed by Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker ,
who said loose monetary policy by central banks around the world
prevented “ruination,” and without it “this economy would
have been destroyed.” The bank expanded its bond-purchase
program by 50 billion pounds ($79 billion) to 325 billion pounds
this month and held the key  interest rate  at a record low amid
risks from  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis.  Credit Ratings  King said the U.K. government’s fiscal plan is helping to
maintain investor confidence even after Moody’s Investors
Service cut its outlook on Britain’s Aaa credit rating to
negative.  “I don’t think we should be slaves to the rating agencies,
but nevertheless what they said was a reminder” of risks from
the deficit, he said. “This is not something we can be
complacent about just because the yields today are low. They are
low because there’s a credible plan in place that people believe
in, and it’s the belief in that plan that actually matters.”  U.K.  bonds  were little changed today, leaving the 10-year
gilt yield at 2.102 percent as of 12:42 p.m. in London. It fell
to 1.917 percent on Jan. 18, the lowest since Bloomberg began
compiling the data in 1989.  Policy maker  Adam Posen , who also attended the hearing,
said the central bank’s latest round of so-called quantitative
easing will be as effective as its previous round that began in
March 2009. King said any further expansion of policy will
depend on how the economy performs.  “By and large, I don’t think there’s any hard and fast
expectation that we’re inevitably going to do more,” King said.
“What really matters is what we think is the appropriate action
to take to keep inflation on track to meet the target in the
medium term, so we will take whatever action we think
appropriate.”  Economic Outlook  Bank of England  Deputy Governor  Charles Bean  said there has
been an improvement in some U.K. and global economic indicators
in the past couple of months from lows seen in October.  “There have been a few positive signs, but I think it’s
important not to read too much into one or two indicators rising
to the upside,” he said. “It’ll take a lot more swallows to
make a summer.”  King objected to a suggestion from lawmaker Andy Love that
he was “relaxed” about reviving lending to small- and medium-
sized companies, and said the government hasn’t been strong
enough in dealing with banks.  “In terms of small and medium-sized enterprises and bank
lending, I’ve consistently and publicly been dissatisfied with
what’s been done” by the government, including the previous
administration, he said. “I’m not relaxed about it at all, I’m
the person that’s put forward proposals for how this might be
done, and they’re not proposals that the banks find favor.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  