-- Proprietary-Trading Firms Said to Face Dodd-Frank Swap Dealer Regulations
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-02-29T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/prop-trading-firms-said-to-face-dodd-frank-swap-dealer-rules.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  may require companies that trade swaps on their own
behalf to register with the agency as dealers as the regulator
considers ways of limiting their  capital requirements , according
to three people briefed on the regulation.  The dealer registration requirement would allow the CFTC,
the main U.S. derivatives regulator, to have direct oversight of
firms that use high-frequency and algorithmic strategies to
trade their own money, according to the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the rule isn’t public.  DRW Holdings LLC, Infinium Capital Management LLC and RGM
Advisors LLC are among more than two dozen proprietary trading
firms that  have told  the CFTC they shouldn’t face capital
requirements designed for swap dealers, which trade on behalf of
customers.  The CFTC swap dealer rule will determine which banks,  hedge
funds , energy companies and other firms will be considered
dealers subject to capital and collateral requirements to reduce
the risk in trades in the $708 trillion global swaps markets.  The CFTC, which can still change the rule, may vote on the
final regulation as early as March 9 after the agency delayed
consideration from a Feb. 23 meeting. The capital requirements
are governed by a separate Dodd-Frank rulemaking that  Gary Gensler , CFTC chairman, said commissioners  would vote on  after
April.  The CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission  are leading
U.S. efforts to revamp derivatives rules after largely
unregulated swaps helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. Dodd-Frank
requires most swaps to be guaranteed by central clearinghouses
and traded on exchanges or other venues in an effort to reduce
risk and increase transparency.  Wall Street banks are the largest swap dealers with
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  controlling 95
percent of cash and derivatives trading for U.S. bank holding
companies as of Sept. 30, according to the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency.  Increasing Scrutiny  High-frequency traders came under increased scrutiny
following the May 6, 2010 plunge in which the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU)  briefly  dropped  9.2 percent.  The proprietary trading firms oppose being subject to
minimum regulatory capital requirements as swap dealers. In
July, 27 proprietary trading firms told the agency that existing
regulations and their own futures brokers require them to have
financial resources to reduce the risk in their trades. Their
letter was in response to an April 27 proposal requiring non-
bank swap dealers to have at least $20 million in tangible net
equity as well as capital set aside to reduce risk in the
market.  “Where a market participant does not have customers it
does not require minimum capital to carry out market functions
on their behalf, nor must it have regulatory capital to ensure
an orderly wind down in order to keep customers whole,” the
companies wrote  in the Jan. 11 letter . The agency is considering
ways to limit the capital requirements for proprietary trading
firms, one of the people briefed said.  More Rules Considered  The CFTC is also working on a so-called concept release of
possible regulations to test and supervise high-frequency and
automated trading strategies, Gensler said in January. The
agency is also in the process of setting up an agency advisory
panel to help define high-frequency trading.  Separately, the CFTC is holding a roundtable starting today
on possible regulatory changes to protect client collateral in
the futures market following the collapse of MF Global Holdings
Ltd.  The CFTC, Securities and Exchange Commission and  Justice
Department  are investigating a shortfall in client funds in the
MFGlobal case. James W. Giddens, the trustee overseeing the
liquidation, estimated that there is a $1.6 billion gap between
customer claims and the amount of money available to pay them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  