-- Mr. Peanut’s Alter Ego Leads Kraft Into Planters Butter
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-02-29T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/mr-peanut-s-alter-ego-leads-kraft-into-planters-butter-retail.html
Mr. Peanut has a stunt double.  Sporting a goatee, aviator sunglasses and overconfidence,
“Doug” performs death-defying feats that always end the same
way: with him getting crushed and turned into peanut butter.  Doug’s daredevil act is part of  Kraft Foods Inc.’s (KFT)  move
into the crowded U.S. peanut butter market. In what may be the
most overdue brand extension in history, Kraft is using the 100-
year-old Planters brand to spark growth in its mature grocery
business. Store shelves are already well stocked with such
brands as market leader Jif,  Unilever PLC’s (UNA)  Skippy,  ConAgra
Foods Inc.’s (CAG)  Peter Pan and private-label peanut butter.  Kraft is targeting adults, who consume two-thirds of the
$1.8 billion of peanut butter sold in the U.S. each year, said
Triona Schmelter, Kraft’s senior director of marketing. Kraft
was looking for an adult mascot and settled on Doug, voiced in
Web ads by Kevin Dillon in an homage to the hapless Johnny Drama
character he played on  HBO ’s “Entourage” series.  “Peanut butter was a natural extension,” Schmelter said,
adding that “most other brands focus on moms and kids.”  The new spread and Peanut Butter Doug, as he is formally
known, are signs Kraft is getting more aggressive with the
grocery business, said  Alexia Howard , an analyst for Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in  New York .  Like many of its rivals, Kraft is struggling to generate
growth in its grocery unit and later this year will separate it
from the faster-growing snacks business. While grocery sales
rose almost 5 percent in  North America  last year, that was
largely because Kraft raised prices in the face of inflation.  Risk-Averse  The grocery business “had been neglected for years,”
Howard said in an interview. “Kraft was a risk-averse,
conventional advertiser. They have shaken that up.”  Kraft, which is based in Northfield,  Illinois , advanced 19
percent last year, compared with an 11 percent rise for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Consumer Staples Index.  Planters’s move into peanut butter follows an effort to
revive the brand’s slumping snack business. From 2005 to 2010,
Planters unit sales at U.S. stores excluding  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  tumbled 23 percent, according to data from Chicago-based
researcher Symphony/IRI. Private-label snacks and offerings from
San Francisco-based  Diamond Foods Inc. (DMND)  were feasting on its
market share.  Kraft hadn’t invested much in Planters, and the marketing
had gone stale. Though suave and monocled, Mr. Peanut was a guy
in a foam suit, like a college mascot. He was human-sized and
never spoke.  “He lost who he was from an advertising standpoint,” said
Caroline Winterton, global brand leader for Planters at Being, a
New York-based spinoff of TBWA Worldwide, which took over the
brand’s advertising in 2010.  1920s Sophisticate  The new ads made Mr. Peanut small and peanut-shaped and
gave him the voice of a 1920s bourgeois sophisticate. The
revised Mr. Peanut helped push all-natural health snacks with
the tagline “Naturally Remarkable.” Sales ticked up that year.  The Planters brand team starting mulling new products.
Peanut butter had been kicked around on and off. Recession-
stricken consumers were seeking cheap protein, pushing peanut
butter sales up 9 percent in 2011. With Planters finding
traction, the team decided the time was right, Schmelter said.  Kraft rolled out Planters peanut butter in June at an event
where celebrity chef Marcus Samuelsson pushed adult-oriented
recipes like peanut butter yogurt and -- yes -- peanut butter
soup. More ads featuring Peanut Butter Doug are in the works.  “You won’t see PB and J” in the marketing campaign,
Schmelter said. “You’ll see ideas for putting it in smoothies,
on rice cakes or on English muffins.”  Private Label  After six months on the market last year, Planters ranked
sixth, behind leader  J.M Smucker Co.’s (SJM)  namesake butters and top
seller Jif, along with private label peanut butter, Skippy and
Peter Pan.  Kraft has added a new peanut butter factory to boost
production capacity. Market share so far this year has risen
from 1.8 percent last year to “mid single-digits,” according
to Schmelter.  While Planters’s brand recognition and Peanut Butter Doug’s
viral antics on the Web helped get the new line off the ground,
sustaining growth will be a challenge, according to Ken Harris,
analyst with London-based research firm Kantar Retail.  Pulling buyers from established brands will require a big
marketing push and more spending, he said. Peanut Butter Doug
exists only online. Planters hasn’t spent the cash to put him on
prime-time television and isn’t saying whether that’s the plan.  Specialty-Nut Butters  What’s more, Planters isn’t the only company trying to move
beyond PB & J for kids. At a Florida conference for analysts
last week, Smucker Chief Executive Officer Richard Smucker told
investors that specialty-nut butter generates $260 million a
year in sales and is growing faster than the overall peanut
butter market. He plans to debut two hazelnut spreads next year,
he said.  Kraft will need that kind of innovation when Tony Vernon,
president of Kraft’s North American business, becomes CEO of the
grocery company after the split, Howard said.  “It’s all about innovation and marketing,” she said.
“They have stepped up innovation under Vernon. But it’s very
early days with peanut butter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  