-- Raymond James Sells First 30-Year Bonds to Pay for Morgan Keegan
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-02-29T22:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/raymond-james-plans-first-30-year-bonds-to-pay-for-morgan-keegan.html
Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF) , the
regional brokerage that’s purchasing Morgan Keegan & Co. from
Regions Financial Corp., sold $350 million of 30-year preferred
debt for the first time to help fund the acquisition.  Proceeds will be used, with cash on hand, $358 million from
a stock sale and funds from at least one other senior debt
offering to pay the $930 million cash portion of the
acquisition, the St. Petersburg, Florida-based company said in a
regulatory filing today. The company issued $350 million of 6.9
percent senior preferred notes, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Raymond James  is the first U.S. regional bank to sell 30-
year bonds this year, following larger lenders  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and Bank of America Corp. in issuing the long-maturity
securities. Yields on debt maturing in 15 years or more have
plunged to 4.94 percent this week, the lowest in data going back
to May 1984, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  As an independent broker-dealer, “it’s interesting they
would issue debt, period,” said Anthony Valeri, a market
strategist with  LPL Financial  in San Diego, which oversees $330
billion. “Looks like another case of taking advantage of low
borrowing rates and trying to lock it in for as long as
possible,” he said in an e-mail.  Citigroup Debt Sale  Citigroup, based in  New York , sold $1 billion of 5.875
percent, 30-year bonds last month that paid 297 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America Corp. sold $1.5 billion of 5.875 percent, 30-year debt
on Feb. 2 at the same basis-point spread, Bloomberg data show.  Citigroup has an A3 rating from Moody’s Investors Service
and A- from  Standard & Poor’s , while Bank of America has a Baa1
grade and A- rating from S&P, Bloomberg data show. Raymond James
is rated lower, with a Baa2 from Moody’s and BBB from S&P, the
data show.  It makes sense that Raymond James would pay a higher yield
than Bank of America and Citigroup based on its lower  credit
rating , Valeri said.  Overall, companies have offered at least $20.9 billion of
debt due in 30 to 31 years in the past two months, Bloomberg
data show.  Raymond James offered 10-year notes in an inaugural bond
sale in August 2009 and raised $250 million through five-year
notes in April last year, making this the company’s longest
maturity, Bloomberg data show.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Citigroup. and Raymond James managed
the 30-year debt offering for the brokerage, according to the
filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  