-- Treasuries Head for Monthly Loss Before ECB Grants Three-Year Bank Loans
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-02-29T07:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/treasuries-head-for-monthly-loss-before-ecb-grants-bank-loans.html
Treasuries headed for their first
monthly decline since October on speculation a European Central
Bank allotment of loans today will bolster investor appetite for
higher-yielding assets.  U.S. government securities handed investors a 0.5 percent
loss in February as of yesterday, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes, dropping as the economy showed signs of
improvement.  Dan Fuss , vice chairman of Loomis Sayles & Co. in
 Boston , said he’s avoiding Treasuries because central bank
purchases are keeping yields artificially low.  “The European problem will gradually be solved, and the
U.S. economy is recovering,” said Tsutomu Komiya, who helps
oversee the equivalent of $114.8 billion as an investor in  Tokyo 
at Daiwa Asset Management Co., a unit of Japan’s second-biggest
brokerage. “The focus will shift from  Europe  to the U.S. That’s
negative for Treasuries.”  Ten-year  yields  held at 1.94 percent today as of 7 a.m. in
 London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
security maturing in February 2022 changed hands at 100 18/32.
The rate has climbed from 1.80 percent at the end of January.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, widened 17 basis
points this month to 2.27 percentage points. The 10-year average
is 2.14 percentage points.  Japan ’s five-year yield fell 1/2 basis point to 0.29
percent, the least since Aug. 22.  ‘Ridiculous’ Treasury Yields  The ECB may grant the region’s region banks 470 billion
euros ($633 billion), making its second offering of three-year
loans, according a Bloomberg News survey of analysts. The amount
compares with 489 billion euros taken by banks at the last Long-
Term Refinancing Operation on Dec. 21, which has helped increase
liquidity in the European banking system.  Fuss, who is a member of the management team for the $21.1
billion  Loomis Sayles Bond Fund (LSBDX) , said he favors sovereign debt
in  Canada ,  Australia  and  New Zealand .  Treasury yields are so low that they’re “ridiculous,” he
said yesterday on “The Hays Advantage” program on Bloomberg
Radio. “You have people buying, specifically our own central
bank, along with some of their friends offshore, and holding
prices artificially high.”  The  Federal Reserve  is replacing $400 billion of shorter-
maturity Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to cap
long-term borrowing costs under a program it plans to conclude
in June. It is scheduled to buy as much as $2 billion of
securities due from February 2036 to February 2042 today as part
of the program, according to the Fed Bank of  New York   website .  Bernanke Testimony  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is due to appear today before the
House Financial Services Committee for his semi-annual testimony
to explain the Fed’s monetary policy and the outlook for the
economy.  At its meeting on Jan. 25, the Fed said subdued inflation
and slack in the economy are likely to warrant keeping  interest
rates  “exceptionally low” at least through late 2014.  Revisions to Treasury Department data on foreign holders of
U.S. debt today will show an increase for  China , the nation’s
largest creditor, according to Bank of America Corp., whose
Merrill Lynch unit is one of the 21 primary dealers that
underwrite the U.S. debt.  China holdings were probably at least $200 billion greater
than the $1.1 trillion reported for the end of last year, the
company said in a note yesterday.  Economic Outlook  Annual revisions to the Treasury’s data on foreign holders
of its debt have in recent years tended to reduce the amount
credited for trading centers such as the U.K. and the Caribbean
while increasing those of  China (HOLDCH) . The Treasury’s initial reports
on international purchases are based on the location where the
transaction occurs. Revisions are based on location of the
beneficial owner.  Ten-year yields that are within 30 basis points of the
record low of 1.67 percent are signaling to some strategists
that the  U.S. economy  is poised to weaken.  While the jobless rate has fallen to the lowest since
February 2009 and the New York-based Conference Board said its
gauge of consumer sentiment is the highest level in a year, some
bond investors are focused on the potential for Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis to worsen and slow the global economy, for
 oil prices  that exceed $100 a barrel to slow spending and on
declining home prices.  “The market is telling you that the economy’s not strong
enough to generate an inflationary spiral,” Ira Jersey, an
interest-rate strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York,
another primary dealer, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Strategists are lowering their yield forecasts. The median
end of 2012 estimate for 10-year Treasury yields has fallen to
2.45 percent from 2.72 percent in November, according to a
survey of more than 70 economists and strategists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Credit Suisse sees them at 2.25 percent.  A year-end rate of 2.49 percent would result in a 2.7
percent loss for an investor who bought today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 