-- Treasuries Fall as Bernanke Damps Outlook for More Debt-Buying Stimulus
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-02-29T22:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/treasuries-head-for-monthly-decline-on-u-s-recovery-ecb-euro-bank-loans.html
Treasuries fell as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s congressional testimony damped
speculation the central bank will expand its economic stimulus
through additional debt purchases, known as quantitative easing.  U.S. debt  headed for the first monthly decline since
October as the European Central Bank awarded 800 euro-region
banks three-year loans totaling 529.5 billion euros ($712.2
billion). U.S. 30-year bonds rose earlier as the Fed purchased
$1.8 billion in longer-term securities as part of a policy known
as Operation Twist.  “It’s more about what Bernanke did not say,” said Thomas Simons, a government debt economist in New York at Jefferies
Group Inc., one of 21 primary dealers that trades with the Fed.
“There was an expectation that Bernanke would speak more
explicitly about a potential QE3.”  The 10-year  note  yield rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.97 percent at 5:02 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
security due February 2022 fell 1/4, or $2.50 per $1,000 face
amount, to 100 1/4. The yield fell to as low as 1.91 percent and
has climbed from 1.8 percent at the end of January.  U.S. 30-year bond yields rose one basis point to 3.09
percent.  Futures Trades  The June 2012 10-year note futures contract tumbled from
about 131 11/32 to the day’s low of 130 23/32 in the five or so
minute after Bernanke’s comments were released. That corresponds
to a drop of $625 per each $100,000 contract.  “There was definitely a huge seller of 10-year futures,”
said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader in New York at
Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. “You can see the trades going
through. They were real trades. The block trades occurred
because of what Bernanke didn’t say.”  Trading volume in 10-year note futures totaled 1.356
million contracts on the as of 2 p.m. Chicago time, compared
with average daily volume this year of 1.125 million contracts,
according to CME Group Inc.  CME Group, the world’s largest futures exchange, said there
is no indication of erroneous trading in 10-year Treasury
futures contracts after Bernanke spoke.  “There were no issues that were reported,” said  Michael Shore , a spokesman for the Chicago-based futures exchange owner.
“We have not called any trades into question and have no
reports of error trades.”  Market Positions  The percent of “net longs” among U.S. Treasuries
investors rose to 13 percent in the week ending Feb. 27, from
two percent the previous week, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. survey
showed yesterday. A long is a bet the price of a security will
rise.  “The market is quite long, so it’s not too surprising that
it’s trading off,” said James Combias, New York-based head of
Treasury trading at primary dealer Mizuho Securities USA Inc.  The difference between the yield on the 10-year note and
the yield on the two-year note, the so-called yield curve,
widened today to 1.68 percentage points. The average for the
past year is 2.15 percentage points.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index , which measures
price swings based on options, closed yesterday at 73.9 basis
points, near the lowest level since July 2007. The five-year
average is 112 basis points.  Fed Rates  The central bank has kept interest rates close to zero
since December 2008 and expanded its balance sheet by buying
$2.3 trillion of assets in two rounds of bond purchases. The Fed
announced the most recent stimulus program on Sept. 21.  The central bank purchased securities maturing from
February 2036 to August 2041 today, according to the Fed Bank of
New York’s  website . The Fed is replacing $400 billion of
shorter-maturity Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term
debt to cap long-term borrowing costs under the program it plans
to conclude in June.  Bernanke also said inflation is likely to “remain
subdued” as the Fed continues to monitor energy markets.
Gasoline prices have climbed 13 percent since the start of the
year to $3.72 a gallon, according to the American Automobile
Association.  “Our big takeaway from Bernanke is that he reiterated the
message from the January Federal Open Market Committee
statement,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at
CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The data will
steer the Fed’s monetary policy.”  Inflation Target  Bernanke said the FOMC’s announcement of a 2 percent
inflation target in January was aimed at providing “additional
transparency” and did “not imply a change in how the committee
conducts policy.”  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices during the life of the debt, widened 17
basis points to 2.27 percentage points. The 10-year average is
2.14 percentage points.  In January, the Fed lowered its projected range for growth
this year to 2.2 percent to 2.7 percent, down from 2.5 percent
to 2.9 percent in November. The range for next year now is 2.8
percent to 3.2 percent, down from a previous forecast of 3
percent to 3.5 percent.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a “modest to moderate pace”
in January and early February, fueled by manufacturers,
including automakers, the Fed said today in its Beige Book
business survey, published two weeks before the FOMC meets to
set monetary policy.  Plosser Speaks  Fed Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said his
appropriate path of monetary policy calls for the U.S. central
bank to raise its benchmark  interest rate  by the end of this
year.  “I’m more optimistic now than I was in August,” as “the
economy’s done pretty well,” Plosser said in response to
questions from reporters after a speech in New York. The drop in
the  unemployment rate  over the past year is “really
significant,” he said.  U.S. gross domestic product climbed at a revised 3 percent
annual rate during the fourth quarter, the most since the second
quarter of 2010, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for no
change from the previously reported 2.8 percent gain.  The number of financial institutions flocking to the
 European Central Bank ’s three-year loans soared to 800 and
borrowing rose to a record in an operation that may boost the
euro-area economy.  European Finance  Bond and equity markets have rallied since the ECB’s first
three-year loan, suggesting banks are investing at least some of
the money in higher yielding assets. That’s helped ease concern
about a credit crunch and won governments time to agree on
measures to contain the sovereign debt crisis. The risk is that
banks become too reliant on ECB money and fail to take the steps
needed to strengthen their balance sheets.  China , the largest U.S. creditor, held $1.15 trillion in
U.S. Treasuries in December, revised figures issued by the
Treasury Department show.  Japan  maintained its place as America’s second-largest
lender, with $1.06 trillion of Treasuries in December, while
 Brazil  held $226.9 billion, the Treasury Department said.  Treasuries have posted a loss of 0.1 percent this year,
compared with a return of 9.8 percent last year, the most since
2008, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  