-- Treasury Yield Descending Signals Slowdown
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-02-29T15:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/treasury-yield-descending-since-january-seen-signaling-slowing-u-s-growth.html
The $10 trillion market for U.S.
Treasuries is signaling that the economic recovery may be poised
to weaken even as  consumer confidence  rises toward pre-recession
levels.  Yields (USGG10YR)  on 10-year Treasury notes, the benchmark for
everything from  mortgage rates  to corporate bonds, fell as low
as 1.89 percent yesterday, down from this year’s high of 2.09
percent on Jan. 23, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
yield averaged 2.76 percent in 2011 and 3.19 percent in 2010.  The jobless rate has fallen to the lowest since February
2009, and the Conference Board said its gauge of consumer
sentiment is the highest level in a year. Bond investors are
focused on Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, oil prices that
exceed $100 a barrel again and  home prices  that have dropped to
the lowest level since 2003.  “You have an economy that’s not yet firing on all
cylinders,” Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist in New York
at Credit Suisse Group AG, one of primary dealers that are
required to bid at Treasury auctions, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “The market is telling you that the
economy’s not strong enough to generate an inflationary
spiral.”  Fed Cuts Outlook  The  Federal Reserve  lowered in January its projected range
for growth this year to 2.2 percent to 2.7 percent, from 2.5
percent to 2.9 percent in November. The range for next year is
2.8 percent to 3.2 percent, down from a previous forecast of 3
percent to 3.5 percent. The median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News is for growth of 2.4 percent, down
from 2.5 percent in a January survey.  While those rates of expansion would still be up from the
1.7 percent recorded in 2011, they’re below the average of 3.1
percent in 2004 through 2006, before the start of the biggest
financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Strategists are lowering their yield forecasts. The median
end-of-2012 estimate for 10-year Treasury yields has fallen to
2.45 percent from 2.72 percent in November, according to a
survey of more than 70 economists and strategists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Credit Suisse sees them at 2.25 percent.  “If you take the capital spending piece out of the  U.S.
economy  equation, you’re left with a consumer muddling along
with modest growth,” Rob Robis, head of fixed-income macro
strategies in Atlanta at ING Investment Management, which
manages about $160 billion, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. Falling  capital expenditures  “is very worrisome if
this translates to a broader trend,” he said.  Orders Tumble  Orders for  durable goods  fell in January by the most in
three years. Bookings for goods meant to last at least three
years slumped 4 percent, after a revised 3.2 percent gain the
prior month, data from the Commerce Department showed yesterday
in  Washington . Economists projected a 1 percent decline,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note rose one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.96 percent at 10:50 a.m.
in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The
price of the 2 percent security due in February 2022 fell 3/32,
or 31 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 100 13/32.  Even as confidence among U.S. consumers as measured by the
New York-based Conference Board’s index climbed more than
forecast to a 12-month high in February, the S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property values in 20 cities fell 4 percent from a year
earlier, reports showed yesterday.  Tax Headwinds  Gross domestic product also faces potential headwinds from
higher taxes if the George W. Bush cuts are allowed to expire,
as well as spending reductions that were triggered as part of
the government’s deal to raise the debt limit last year, said
 Ajay Rajadhyaksha , an analyst and managing director at Barclays
Plc in New York. The reduction in fiscal stimulus may lop as
much as 2.5 percentage points from GDP growth, he said.  “By the end of this year we have a lot of potential fiscal
tightening,” Rajadhyaksha said in a Feb. 27 telephone interview.
“Congress will probably find its way out of some of these
automatic cuts that are coming, but it might not find its way
out of all of them.”  Tame inflation and demand for the safest assets amid
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis helped propel returns on
Treasuries to 10 percent, including reinvested interest, in the
12 months ended Jan. 31. Last year’s gain of 9.8 percent, as
measured by Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes, beat the 2.1
percent rise in the Standard & Poor’s 500, including dividends.  Forward Rates  Traders are betting that government debt yields will remain
subdued. The cost to exchange fixed- for floating-rate payments
in a decade has averaged 3.41 percent this year. The so-called
forward 10-year swap rate, which has fallen from last year’s
peak of 5.47 percent in February, is trading at the same levels
as early 2009 during the depths of the financial crisis.  Europe’s debt crisis, geopolitical risk in the  Middle East 
and the potential for more Fed easing are other reasons why
Treasury yields have failed to rise, said  David Ader , head of
U.S. government bond strategy at CRT Capital Group LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  That combination “freezes positions” Ader said in a Feb.
27 telephone interview.  The  World Bank  reduced its global growth forecast for this
year to 2.5 percent, from a June estimate of 3.6 percent, the
Washington-based institution said Jan. 18. It warned that the
crisis in Europe and slower growth in developing economies may
crimp the global economy further.  Stimulus Warranted  After its Jan. 24-25 meeting, the  Federal Open Market
Committee  said subdued inflation and slack in the economy are
likely to warrant keeping the target rate in a range of zero to
0.25 percent until at least through late 2014, extending a
previous date of mid-2013 or later. Policy makers also set an
explicit inflation goal of 2 percent for the first time.  Keeping monetary stimulus is warranted even as the
 unemployment rate  falls and rising  oil prices  may cause
inflation to rise temporarily, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
today in testimony to the House Financial Services Committee in
Washington.  “At present, with the unemployment rate elevated and the
inflation outlook subdued, the committee judges that sustaining
a highly accommodative stance for monetary policy is consistent
with promoting both objectives” of the Fed for stable prices and
maximum employment, Bernanke said.  While describing “positive developments” in the labor
market, Bernanke said “the job market remains far from normal”
during the first day of his semi-annual monetary policy report
to Congress. He said a recent rise in gasoline prices “is likely
to push up inflation temporarily while reducing consumers’
purchasing power.”  ‘Drain’ on Incomes  Rather than adding to inflation, traders see oil prices
hovering at about $100 a barrel, almost 60 percent above the
average price of $64 for the past decade, as being a drag on the
economy. An extended $10 rise in oil cuts 0.5 percentage point
off U.S. growth over two years, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  “That’s a drain on household incomes,” said Robis of ING.
“You see higher oil prices, and it could have an impact on
consumer and business confidence.”  Inflation has stayed contained in part because wage growth
is stunted even as unemployment recedes. Average hourly earnings
rose 1.9 percent in January from a year earlier, the smallest
increase since April, and down from 3.2 percent in 2008 and 3.7
percent in January 2009, the Labor Department said Feb. 3. The
 jobless rate  fell to 8.3 percent in January, the lowest level in
three years, compared with a high of 10 percent in October 2009.  Fed’s Favorite  Inflation as measured by the personal consumption
expenditures index, excluding food and fuel, the measure used by
the Fed for its forecasts, rose 1.8 percent in December from a
year earlier. That’s down from 2.5 percent as recently as 2008.  “There’s enough out there to be encouraged, but not an
awful lot to get excited about with the U.S. economy,” David Glocke, who manages $65 billion of Treasuries at Vanguard Group
Inc. in Valley Forge,  Pennsylvania , said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “Long story short, there’s not a lot to go
out and push rates higher at this point.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  