-- Tribune Paid Bankruptcy Advisers $233 Million Since Filing for Protection
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-02-29T16:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/tribune-paid-bankruptcy-advisers-233-3-million-since-filing-in-2008.html
Tribune Co. (TRB) , the biggest news media
company in bankruptcy, paid lawyers and other advisers
$233.3 million since filing for court protection from creditors
in December 2008.  The two main law firms in the case collected almost half of
all the money spent to reorganize the newspaper and television
company, according to records filed yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court (14001L)  in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Sidley Austin LLP (1119L) , Tribune’s main law firm, received
$68.9 million in fees and expenses while  Chadbourne & Parke LLP (1224L) ,
which represents unsecured creditors, was paid $42.2 million.
Alvarez & Marsal LLC, Tribune’s financial adviser, received
$18.1 million.  Tribune, the Chicago-based owner of the Los Angeles Times
and the Chicago Tribune newspapers, filed for bankruptcy in
December 2008, one year after a leveraged buyout led by real-
estate billionaire  Sam Zell .  Since then, the company and  hedge funds  holding Tribune’s
senior debt have fought to win approval for a plan to divide
ownership among the lenders that financed the $8.3 billion
buyout. Pre-buyout creditors oppose that plan, claiming Zell’s
deal was doomed from the start.  Tribune, valued earlier this year by the company at more
than $7 billion, owes creditors about $13 billion.  Plan Rejected  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Carey rejected Tribune’s latest
reorganization plan in October, citing technical legal flaws.
Carey said he would approve the main settlement upon which the
plan is based. That settlement would avoid a lawsuit against
Tribune’s main lenders, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM) , by the
committee of unsecured creditors.  Tribune will seek approval of a new plan based on the
settlement in May.  Gary Weitman , a Tribune spokesman, declined to comment on
the fees. In bankruptcy cases, the debtor pays its own legal
fees, along with those of any official creditor committees.  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , which filed the biggest U.S.
Bankruptcy in history in 2008, paid about $1.6 billion in fees
as of last month. That included more than $500 million collected
by Alvarez & Marsal, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The bankruptcy case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  