-- RIM to Add Thailand, Indonesia Stores as Asia Demand Rises
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-02-29T21:32:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/rim-plans-to-have-4-000-sales-outlets-in-indonesia-by-feb-2013.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  plans a
campaign to increase retail outlets in  Indonesia  and  Thailand ,
seeking to capitalize on rising demand for its BlackBerry
smartphones in  Southeast Asia  and offset slumping U.S. sales.  RIM plans to have about 4,000 outlets including flagship
stores, store-in-stores and kiosks across Indonesia within the
next year, broadening its current footprint of four shops in
Jakarta, Gregory Wade, RIM’s Asia head, said in an interview
today at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain. He said
RIM also has “aggressive” plans to open outlets in Thailand
and Malaysia.  Indonesia “is the proving ground” for an expansion across
Southeast Asia, said Wade, who is based in  Singapore .  The company, having been overtaken by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone
and devices using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software in the U.S., is
seeking to avoid the BlackBerry’s slump from spreading outside
North America. RIM’s sales outside the U.K., U.S. and Canada
jumped 31 percent last quarter to $3.17 billion as U.S. sales
dropped 45 percent to $1.03 billion.  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, fell 2.3 percent to $14.17
at the close in  New York . Shares of the company, which named
Thorsten Heins chief executive officer last month with the
resignation of co-founders and co-CEOs Jim Balsillie and Mike Lazaridis, have lost 90 percent since their 2008 high.  Jakarta Rioting  Demand in markets such as Indonesia, the world’s fourth-
most populous country with about 248 million people, is being
driven by a BlackBerry feature that lets users send instant
messages for free.  Still, the BlackBerry’s boom in the region has had some
hiccups. At an event at Jakarta’s Pacific Place shopping mall on
Nov. 25, when RIM made the global debut of its BlackBerry Bold
9790, rioting broke out among customers hoping to be among those
to get a discounted price for the smartphone. In the ensuing
scuffles, at least 10 people went to hospital to be treated for
injuries.  The event was a promotion at the luxury shopping mall,
rather than a BlackBerry store opening, Wade said, stressing
that RIM has learned from the experience and “has made every
effort” to ensure it doesn’t happen again.  The company opened a new 149-square meter store in
Jakarta’s Gandaria shopping district last week, which “went off
without a hitch,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Barcelona at
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  