-- Romney’s Michigan, Arizona Wins Won’t Stop Santorum Campaign
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-02-29T20:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/romney-s-wins-in-michigan-arizona-won-t-stop-santorum-challenge.html
Mitt Romney  won the Republican
presidential primary in his native Michigan yesterday, propelled
by the oldest and wealthiest voters even as those who form the
party’s core eluded him.  Romney easily triumphed in Arizona’s primary, and his dual
victories blunted  Rick Santorum ’s rise as the nomination race
expands to a broader field of states over the next week. Still,
his 3 percentage point margin in Michigan won’t deter Santorum
as they continue a battle that some Republican leaders have said
may tarnish the party’s brand in November’s general election
against President  Barack Obama .  “We didn’t win by a lot, but we won by enough and that’s
all that matters,” Romney told cheering supporters last night
in Novi,  Michigan .  Santorum depicted his Michigan loss as a win as he spoke to
his backers in Grand Rapids.  “We came into the backyard of one of my opponents, in a
race that everyone said, ‘Well, just ignore, you have really no
chance here,’” he said. “And the people of Michigan looked
into the hearts of the candidates and all I have to say is that
I love them back.”  Romney had 41.1 percent of the vote in Michigan and
Santorum 37.9 percent, with 99 percent of precincts reporting,
according to the Associated Press tally. Running third was U.S.
Representative Ron Paul of  Texas  with 11.6 percent, followed by
former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  with 6.5 percent.  In  Arizona , Romney had 47.3 percent of the vote, with 100
percent of precincts reporting in the AP tally. Santorum had
26.6 percent, followed by Gingrich with 16.2 percent and Paul
with 8.4 percent.  Michigan Focus  Santorum campaigned on his second-place finish in Michigan
today as he carried his bid for the Rebublican nomination to
Tennessee, among the states voting in the “Super Tuesday”
contests March 6.  ‘This was really a great race, to go into,’’ Santorum said
of the Michigan contest as he campaigned from the pulpit of a
Baptist church in Powell, Tennessee. “Belly of the beast: The
home town of my chief rival in the Republican primary.”  While Romney and Santorum focused on Michigan over the last
three weeks, neither Paul nor Gingrich competed aggressively in
the state, instead concentrating on states voting in March.  Super Tuesday Stakes  The race now moves to a dozen states:  Washington , which
conducts caucuses on March 3, and 11 contests on March 6, or
Super Tuesday. That day’s major contests include primaries in
 Ohio ,  Georgia ,  Oklahoma  and  Tennessee .  More than 400 of the 1,144 delegates needed to win the
nomination will be at stake on Super Tuesday.  Michigan will award its 30 delegates based on results in
each of the state’s congressional districts, meaning Romney will
split the total with Santorum. Arizona’s primary is winner-take-
all, so Romney gets all of the state’s 29 delegates.  The threat Santorum’s candidacy poses for Romney is
underscored by signs that the former U.S. senator from
 Pennsylvania  has begun to consolidate the support of those
Republicans who have been searching for a Romney alternative.  “People are not ready to fall in line behind Mitt
Romney,” said Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research
Council, an advocacy group for social conservatives who oppose
abortion rights that hasn’t endorsed a candidate. “This thing
could go on up to August.”  Republican Fight  Republican leaders concerned about the potential fallout of
a prolonged Romney-Santorum fight include Governor Phil Bryant
of  Mississippi . In comments to reporters in Washington on Feb.
27, he said he worried “about our candidates having a negative
campaign toward each other. I like the Ronald Reagan 11th
Commandment -- thou shall not speak ill against another
Republican -- and I think we need to remember some of that.”  According to  exit polling  in Michigan, Romney won almost
half of the vote of those 65 years of age and older, a group
that represented about a quarter of the turnout. Santorum
outperformed Romney among those under 45.  Romney won almost half of the vote of those making more
than $100,000 a year, while Santorum had the stronger showing
among those with lower incomes -- he carried about 40 percent of
those earning less than $50,000. Santorum also won a plurality
of those who haven’t attended college.  Voter Profile  About 60 percent of the voters described themselves as
either “very” or “somewhat” conservative. Santorum won
roughly half of the “very” conservative contingent, while
Romney carried about the same percentage of the “somewhat”
conservative bloc.  Romney won Oakland County, where he spent the bulk of his
childhood in the affluent suburb of  Bloomfield Hills .  Santorum carried western Michigan, which Romney won four
years earlier when he presented himself as a conservative
alternative to Senator  John McCain , 2008’s eventual Republican
presidential nominee.  Among this year’s primary voters, 50 percent said they
disapproved of the federal government’s $82 billion bailout of
the automotive industry, a central part of Michigan’s economy.
That group was evenly divided between Romney and Santorum.  In the Feb. 14 edition of the Detroit News, Romney wrote an
 opinion piece  about his opposition to the bailout. In part
because Santorum also opposed it, political strategists in the
state said the issue didn’t play a significant role in the
primary. Democrats, though, plan to take full advantage of the
issue in November.  Obama Campaigns  Obama previewed that line of attack yesterday in a speech
to a gathering of the United Auto Workers in Washington, saying
the Republican candidates would have left the industry,
including  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC, and its
workers “hung out to dry.”  Earlier this month, GM said it earned $9.19 billion last
year, the largest profit in its 103-year history, and regained
its position as the world’s top-selling automaker.  Santorum, 53, was leading in Michigan polls just a week
ago, and his loss probably will fuel questions about his
tendency to veer from a focus on improving the economy to offer
defenses of the role of religion in public life. He faced
questions before yesterday’s votes over his Feb. 26 remarks that
John F. Kennedy’s 1960 speech on the separation of church and
state made him want to “throw up.”  Romney’s Defensive  Romney, 64, was forced to campaign aggressively in Michigan
to avoid the political embarrassment of losing in a state where
he was born and raised and where his father served three terms
as governor. He had been the strong favorite in Michigan until
support for Santorum surged following his wins in Colorado,
Minnesota and Missouri on Feb. 7.  Santorum was dealt a setback in a Feb. 22 nationally
televised debate when Romney and Paul questioned his
congressional record as a fiscal conservative. Romney, though,
was forced on the defensive by recent comments that drew
unwanted attention to his wealth, including a remark that his
wife owned two Cadillacs.  Hours before voting ended yesterday, Romney said he had
made some “mistakes” in Michigan and pledged “to do better
and work harder and make sure that we get our message across.”  Michigan’s Republican primary drew 998,842 voters,
according to a count by the  Associated Press  early today. That’s
more than the 869,169 who turned out four years ago. In 2000
when there was no competitive Democratic contest, more than 1.2
million voted in the Republican primary that McCain won over
 George W. Bush , who went on to the White House.  Next Contests  Romney campaigned today in Ohio; Santorum appeared in the
state briefly yesterday and plans to return March 2.  As of Feb. 27, Romney’s campaign and its allies were
already running television ads in  Alabama , Georgia, Mississippi,
Ohio, Oklahoma and Tennessee.  The financial advantage Romney has had throughout the
Republican race helped him overshadow Santorum on Michigan
television screens on the days leading up to the primary.  Spending by his campaign and a political action committee
backing him outpaced expenditures on behalf of Santorum by about
3-2, according to data from New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG,
a company that tracks advertising.  The Romney campaign and Restore Our Future spent $3.12
million to air ads 6,229 times on Michigan broadcast television
through yesterday, CMAG reported. Santorum and the Red White and
Blue Fund, a PAC supporting him, spent $2.15 million to air ads
5,337 times.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Novi, Michigan at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  