-- Romney Wins Michigan, Arizona Primaries
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-02-29T03:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/romney-wins-arizona-republican-primary-race.html
Mitt Romney  won today’s Republican
presidential primaries in Michigan and Arizona, stalling a surge
by  Rick Santorum  that had upended the party’s nomination race.  “What a night,” Romney said to supporters in Novi,
Michigan.  Romney had 41 percent of the vote in Michigan and Santorum
38 percent, with 82 percent of precincts reporting, according to
the Associated Press tally. Running third was U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  with 12 percent, followed by
former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  with 7 percent.  In Arizona, Romney had 48 percent of the vote, with 52
percent of precincts reporting in the AP tally. Santorum had 26
percent, followed by Gingrich with 16 percent and Paul with 9
percent.  Santorum, speaking in  Grand Rapids , Michigan, before the
final result in the state was known, touted his “great
conservative track record.”  Romney, 64, and Santorum, 53, focused most of their efforts
on Michigan. Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, sought
to avoid the embarrassment of losing in a state where he was
born and his father served three terms as governor. He had been
the strong favorite in Michigan until Santorum raised doubts
about Romney’s support with wins in three states earlier this
month.  Super Tuesday  For Santorum, a former U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania , a
Michigan victory would have built upon his triumphs in Colorado,
Minnesota and  Missouri  and given him fresh momentum heading into
the March 6 Super Tuesday contests in 11 states.  More than 400 of the 1,144 delegates needed to win the
party’s nomination are at stake on Super Tuesday.  Michigan’s 30 delegates to the  Republican National
Convention  are awarded proportionally, based on results within
each of the state’s congressional districts. The allocation of
delegates in the state between Romney and Santorum had yet to be
settled.  Arizona ’s primary is winner-take-all, so Romney gets all of
the state’s 29 delegates.  Spending in Michigan on television commercials by Romney’s
campaign and a political action committee backing him has
outpaced expenditures on behalf of Santorum by a ratio of about
3-to-2, according to data from New York-based Kantar Media’s
CMAG, a company that tracks advertising.  The Romney campaign and Restore Our Future spent $3.12
million to air ads 6,229 times on Michigan broadcast television
stations through yesterday, CMAG reported. Santorum and the Red
White and Blue Fund, a PAC supporting him, spent $2.15 million
to air ads 5,337 times.  Open Primary  Michigan has an open primary, meaning Democrats and
independents can cast ballots in the Republican race. Romney
earlier today criticized Santorum’s campaign for making
automated telephone calls to Democrats in the state to urge them
to vote for Santorum. Romney said his rival was trying to
“kidnap” the nomination process.  The calls cited Romney’s opposition to the $82 billion
federal automotive bailout, which Santorum also opposed.  Romney told reporters the calls were the “dirty tricks of
a desperate campaign.”  “Republicans have to recognize there’s a real effort to
kidnap our primary process,” Romney said in Livonia,  Michigan .  Neither Gingrich nor Paul competed aggressively in
Michigan, concentrating instead on states voting next month.  Romney, a former private equity executive who said today
that he’s made some “mistakes” in his campaign messaging,
termed Santorum “an economic lightweight” in his understanding
of how to create more jobs.  In response, Santorum told reporters today in  Ohio  --a
state that will hold a primary next week -- that he’s offering a
“conservative message” that will appeal to Republicans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net 
John McCormick in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  