-- Rousseff’s Bid to Limit Brazil Pension Deficit Passes First Test
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2012-02-29T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/rousseff-s-bid-to-limit-brazil-pension-deficit-passes-first-test.html
Brazil ’s lower house of Congress
approved yesterday the main guidelines of a bill that caps
government pension payments, a move that Moody’s Investor
Service Inc. says may contribute to improving the nation’s
credit rating.  In a 318 to 134 vote, lawmakers approved changes that limit
at 3,916 reais ($2,300) the amount the federal government can
pay each month in pensions for retired public servants. To
receive more, employees must make contributions to individual
retirement accounts created by the law, with the government’s
matching contributions limited to 8.5 percent of the amount each
employee’s salary exceeds the pension ceiling.  President  Dilma Rousseff  challenged members of her Workers’
Party and set a deadline for approval of the bill after her
predecessor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , failed to deliver on
pledges to limit pension spending during his eight-year rule. If
approved by the Senate, the law would gradually eliminate a
shortfall responsible for a third of Brazil’s 94 billion reais
public  deficit  last year, according to government estimates.  “The reform, if finalized, can be billed as a credit-
positive event” said  Mauro Leos , a Moody’s sovereign credit
analyst for  Latin America . “It’s an element that may contribute
to an improvement of the rating down the road,” he said in a
telephone interview from  New York .  The new 3,916 reais limit for retiring government workers
compares with average pension payments of 6,589 reais per month
for workers in the executive branch and 22,444 reais for those
in the legislative branch.  Deficit Contributor  Generous pension benefits have long been a magnet
attracting workers to Brazil’s public payrolls, and a major
contributor to a government deficit that stood at 2.6 percent of
gross domestic product at the end of last year.  Currently, retired government workers receive pensions
amounting to 80 percent of their average salary during their
last decade of employment. Brazil racked up a 38 billion reais
deficit last year to cover the pensions of the 664,253 retired
civil servants, compared with a 43 billion reais deficit for 28
million people receiving social security.  Under the bill, three private pension funds will be created
to manage the retirement accounts set up for newly hired federal
government employees.  The current pension deficit is part of a “perverse
equation” that rises at a 10 percent pace a year, Social
Security Minister Garibaldi Alves told lawmakers Dec. 7. “It’s
a tragedy foretold,” he said, adding that the bill is essential
to avoid future retirement cuts similar to the ones being made
by European governments such as Spain and  Greece .  With passage of the bill, Brazil’s pension deficit would be
eliminated by 2048, Jaime Mariz, who oversees pension funds at
the Social Security Ministry, told reporters in Brasilia
yesterday.  Lower Rates  For  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank, approval of the bill will provide a long-term
boost to Brazil’s efforts to lower  interest rates , the highest
in the Group of 20, by limiting government outlays that fuel
inflation.  Brazil’s central bank on Jan. 18 lowered the benchmark
Selic rate to 10.5 percent from 11 percent.  In 2003, Lula pushed through Congress a constitutional
amendment authorizing the government to cut pension payments.
Still, he didn’t send a bill enacting the changes until 2007 and
it hadn’t reached the floor of either chamber until Rousseff on
Oct. 3 set a deadline for  Congress  to vote on it.  “This shows that this administration is willing and may be
able to push for reforms that have an impact on medium-term
fiscal consolidation,” said Leos.  Brazil’s debt rating was raised on June 20 by Moody’s
Investors Service to Baa2, the second-lowest investment grade,
from Baa3. The rating company cited Rousseff’s efforts to cut
spending as a reason for the upgrade and gave Brazil a positive
outlook.  Standard & Poor’s  raised the country’s foreign-currency
rating to BBB, from BBB-, on Nov. 17, with a stable outlook.  “We changed Brazil’s rating recently and we took into
account that the bill was likely to pass,” Sebastian Briozzo,
S&P’s sovereign ratings director for Latin America, said in a
phone interview from  Buenos Aires . “It’s important that Brazil
continues to take steps in the right direction.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 