-- Trucks Run on Natural Gas in Pickens Clean Energy Drive: Freight
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-02-29T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/trucks-run-on-natural-gas-in-pickens-clean-energy-drive.html
A Made-in-America fuel source may
soon be moving tractor-trailers across the U.S.  Carriers like  Ryder System Inc. (R)  are buying long-haul trucks
that run on natural gas, around $1.50 a gallon cheaper than
diesel. As adoption grows,  Clean Energy Fuels Corp. (CLNE)  and  Westport
Innovations Inc. (WPT)  plan to profit from a marriage of technology
and domestic energy that has the political blessing of President
Barack Obama and the financial backing of T. Boone Pickens.  Using natural gas could cut fuel costs by more than $20,000
for a truck traveling a typical long-haul distance of 100,000
miles (161,000 kilometers) a year, according to JMP Securities
LLC’s Shawn Severson. Shares in Clean Energy and Westport are up
at least 30 percent since the end of last year.  “Natural gas is green in terms of the environment, but the
real green is in the money,” said Severson, a San Francisco-
based clean-technology analyst. “If you do not have this fuel
in your fleet for whatever percentage is appropriate, you’re
going to be at an economic disadvantage.”  Clean Energy is tackling the so-called chicken-or-egg
problem by building the fueling depots that natural gas-powered
fleets require before they can proliferate. Such a network sets
in motion part of a four-year-old plan by Pickens aimed at
cutting the nation’s fuel costs, reducing reliance on overseas
energy and generating jobs.  ‘Low-Hanging Fruit’  “It’s a helluva deal for the country,” Pickens, the 83-
year old founder and chairman of Dallas-based BP Capital LLC,
said in a telephone interview. He’s also Clean Energy’s largest
shareholder, owning 23 percent as of yesterday. “It’s low-
hanging fruit. It’s just sitting there,” he said.  Revenue at Clean Energy climbed 58 percent to $72 million
in the three months ended Sept. 30 from the same period in 2010.  Ryder,  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and Dillon Transport Inc.
are among those purchasing the vehicles. Dillon began moving
 Owens Corning Inc. (OC)  freight last month using LNG trucks. The Burr
Ridge, Illinois-based carrier refills 14 trucks at a Clean
Energy station along Irving Boulevard in Dallas slated to open
for public use in May.  “Nobody can beat us on rates right now if we have the gas
component in place,” said founder Jeff Dillon, who started the
business 32 years ago with one truck and now owns 350. “We’ve
probably got about a three-year window to have the advantage.”  Severson has a “market outperform” rating on Vancouver-
based Westport, the maker of the only currently available 15-
liter engine suitable for heavy-duty trucks. After the stock
gained almost 50 percent this year, Severson has a “market
perform” rating on Seal Beach, California-based Clean Energy.  LNG Stations  The absence of natural gas filling stations along the
nation’s more than 46,000 miles of interstate highway previously
prevented long-haul truckers from investing in new fleets that
run on the fuel. In the U.S., 18 stations open to the public
dispense liquefied natural gas, 14 of which are in  California ,
according to the Department of Energy. Clean Energy plans to
open 70 LNG stations by the end of the year and another 80 in
2013.  The natural gas fuel provider is teaming up with closely
held Pilot Travel Centers LLC’s to add the fueling facilities to
Flying J stations already open along major U.S. interstates from
 Los Angeles  to Houston to  Chicago  to Atlanta.  Chesapeake Energy
Corp. (CHK) , the second-largest U.S. natural-gas producer, committed
$150 million in July to help build the network.  To be sure, some engines have yet to hit the market and
federal government incentives that make vehicle investments less
costly have not yet been approved. A truck operating on natural
gas costs about $40,000 more than the $110,000 price tag for a
diesel-powered equivalent, Severson estimated.  700,000 for Hire  About 22,000 natural gas-powered heavy duty trucks were on
U.S. roads in 2010, a number that also includes already abundant
gas-powered Class 7 vehicles like garbage trucks, the Natural
Gas Vehicles for America trade association estimates. There are
about 700,000 long-haul trucks for hire on the road, according
to the American Trucking Associations.  The cheaper fuel costs, nonetheless, “will force
adoption,” Severson said. He calculated that it will take about
two years for a long-haul truck to recoup the additional cost of
the technology.  Liquefied  natural gas  typically costs about $1.50 per
diesel gallon equivalent less than the same amount of diesel,
according to James Harger, chief marketing officer at Clean
Energy. Last month, natural gas futures traded on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  fell to the lowest price in almost 10 years.  Natural gas’s abundance within U.S. shale deposits has
driven prices lower and underpinned the 2008 Pickens Plan, which
aims to create more than a million jobs and cut oil imports by a
third. The U.S. produced 18 percent of the world’s natural gas
supply last year, the Energy Department  estimates .  ‘Attractive Almost Indefinitely’  The “economics of natural gas fuels will remain very
attractive almost indefinitely,” said  Pavel Molchanov , an
analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc. “The excess supply
of natural gas is so persistent and so structural that it really
will take a very, very long time before we have to worry about
prices getting to levels where they are on par with oils.”  Clean Energy’s LNG sales should grow by 115 percent in
2013, estimates Houston-based Molchanov, who also has a “market
perform” rating on Clean Energy.  Government incentives would help speed adoption. Obama has
called for offering tax incentives to induce companies to buy
more vehicles, working with industry to build fueling corridors
and introducing a competition to encourage research.  “We’ve got to take advantage of this incredible natural
resource,” Obama said during a Jan. 26 speech at a facility in
Las Vegas for UPS, an early adopter of alternative fuels.
“Think about an America where more cars and trucks are running
on domestic natural gas than foreign oil.”  Tax Credit  Last April, lawmakers proposed the NAT GAS Act, which
included a tax credit for as much as 80 percent of a vehicle’s
incremental cost, an excise tax credit for fuel suppliers and a
50 percent tax credit for building a station. To help pay for it
and garner support, a revised Senate bill in November included
the phase-in of a user fee in 2014 that would rise from $0.025
to $0.125 per gasoline gallon equivalent by 2022.  While Pickens said he expects supporting legislation to
eventually pass, the adoption of natural gas will occur without
government incentives because the savings can pay back the extra
cost of new equipment within a year or two, he said.  “It’s going to take off because of the price,” Pickens
said. “You can get there quicker if you get  Washington  to give
some help on direction, but that isn’t necessary.”  California, Nevada  UPS, the world’s largest package-delivery company, owns 59
tractor-trailers powered by liquefied natural gas. A majority of
them travel from California to Nevada, stopping at Clean Energy
fueling stations, according to Lynnette McIntire, the company’s
director of sustainability.  Ryder, the biggest publicly traded U.S. truck lessor,
purchased 202 heavy-duty natural gas vehicles last March. The
Miami-based company owns about 45,000 Class 8 semis, about 246
of which use natural gas. The share should increase as the
fueling infrastructure expands and competition drives down the
price premium for natural gas technology, said Scott Perry, vice
president of vehicle supply management.  “We have a lot of interest from customers who are
represented by every industry group whether it’s food and
beverage distributing or it’s textiles or it’s automotive, you
name it,” Perry said in an interview.  Mohawk Industries Inc. (MHK) ,
 Dean Foods Co. (DF) , and  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  are among customers using
natural gas trucks mostly in southern California.  Swift, the largest truckload carrier in North America, is
also getting on board.  ‘Cheering It On’  “We’ve been testing it for about a year, and we like what
we see,”  Jerry Moyes , chairman and chief executive officer of
Swift, said in an e-mail. “We are still in the experimental
stage, but it has great promise, it is gaining momentum, and we
are cheering it on.”  Because the trucking industry is very competitive,
purchasing plans often aren’t revealed, said Glen Kedzie, energy
and environment counsel for the ATA in Arlington, Virginia.
Members of his group have taken deliveries of an undisclosed
number of trucks to gauge the feasibility of a fleet switch.  “We’re at the cusp of something growing exponentially in
the industry,” Kedzie said. “Based upon everything we’ve been
witnessing not only on the infrastructure front but also on the
vehicle front, these gains are increasingly very rapidly.”  Meantime, Clean Energy is working to get 150 companies,
including  Home Depot Inc. (HD) ,  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  and  Procter & Gamble
Co ., to ask carriers to adopt natural gas, said Chief Executive
Officer Andrew Littlefair. Such companies are “looking for
places to save a penny, two pennies a mile,” he said.  “We don’t need millions of trucks on day one,” Littlefair
said. “We don’t need tens of thousands. We need a hundred at
the right location to make these stations make sense from the
beginning. It’s a targeted approach, and I think it’s very
manageable, and we’ve done this a lot over the years so we know
how to build them and grow them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  