-- Rules Chairman Dreier Says He Will Retire From U.S. Congress
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-02-29T16:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/rules-chairman-dreier-says-he-will-retire-from-u-s-congress.html
California  Republican David Dreier,
chairman of the House Rules Committee whose district was carved
up in congressional redistricting, announced today that he won’t
seek re-election this year to a 17th term in Congress.  Dreier, 59, who has headed the panel that sets the terms of
debate for bills considered by the House, would have faced a
competitive race because his southern California district was
redrawn and is now strongly Democratic-leaning. A majority of
the voters in the new district are Hispanic.  In a statement delivered on the House floor today, Dreier
recalled that he had considered retiring in 2010. He ended up
seeking re-election that year, he said, to help “reverse the
very dangerous 82 percent increase” in domestic  discretionary
spending  that didn’t include defense and to win ratification of
free-trade agreements with Colombia, Panama and  South Korea .  “We have fundamentally altered the federal spending
process, focusing on fiscal discipline rather than profligacy,”
Dreier said. “We not only passed all three pending free trade
agreements, we did so with the largest bipartisan support of any
trade measure in years.”  Dreier is one of the House’s most influential members
because the Rules panel he leads sets the parameters for debate
on major legislation. He has served on the panel since 1991,
including as chairman from 1999 through 2006, when Democrats won
control of the House and he lost the chairmanship. Dreier became
chairman again after Republicans reclaimed control of the House
in the 2010 election.  If Republicans keep their House majority in the November
election, Texas Republican Pete Sessions would be next in line,
by seniority, as Rules Committee chairman.  Ran in 1978  Dreier was born in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , and moved to
California to attend  Claremont McKenna College , from which he
graduated in 1975. He first ran for the House in 1978, losing to
Democratic incumbent Jim Lloyd, and won a rematch in 1980, when
former California governor  Ronald Reagan  was elected president
in a landslide.  Dreier, 28 when first elected, is one of 17 members in the
current Congress who have spent more than half of their lives
serving there.  Dreier’s retirement continues a pattern of weakening clout
for California, the nation’s most-populous state with 53 House
members. Dreier is the seventh member of California’s House
delegation who has announced plans to retire after this session
or to seek other office.  Altogether, Dreier is the 36th House member who has
announced plans to forgo a re-election campaign this year.
Twenty are Democrats and 16 are Republicans.  He had signaled that he might not seek re-election, raising
$91,215 in contributions last year, according to Federal
Elections Commission records. These contributions included
$15,465 from individuals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  