-- Samsung to Spend More on Own Mobile Software, Offer Android Alternative
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-02-29T09:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/samsung-to-spend-more-on-own-software-offer-android-alternative.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
second-largest handset maker, will “significantly” increase
investment to bolster its own mobile-phone operating system,
pitching it as an alternative to  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android.  “We believe this is a good platform to build on,” Juha
Park, senior vice president of product strategy at Samsung, said
in an interview in  Barcelona  yesterday, referring to the
company’s Bada software. “We want to have a full range of
portfolio for Bada, from high-end to mass-volume segments.”  Samsung, locked in patent lawsuits with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  over
mobile technology and design, sold a record 300 million handsets
including basic models in 2011, helped by the popularity of its
Galaxy products that run on Android. The South Korean company
has so far used Bada on models priced lower than the Galaxy
range of devices.  “It’s quite meaningful as a niche segment,” said Thomas
Kang, a Seoul-based director of wireless smartphone strategies
at  Strategy Analytics . “The volume may not be huge, but its
existence itself can give Samsung a lot of leverage.”  Samsung sold about 8 million to 9 million Bada phones in
2011, compared with 2 million a year earlier, Kang said. Samsung
sold 97 million smartphones last year, topping 93 million for
Apple’s iPhone, according to an estimate by Strategy Analytics.  To adopt Bada in high-end models competing with the iPhone,
Samsung will need to boost the availability of applications
running on the software, Kang said.  Samsung will also introduce smartphones and tablet
computers using  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows software, Park said.  “We will maintain our multiple OS strategy,” he said.  Still, Android models will remain the “bigger part” of
Samsung’s smartphone lineup, and the company plans to unveil a
successor to the Galaxy S II in the second quarter, he said.  Samsung, which aims to double sales of smartphones and
tablet computers this year, expects to sell about 380 million
handsets in 2012, including all types, J.K. Shin, head of the
mobile business, told reporters in Barcelona on Feb. 26.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in Barcelona at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net  