-- Samsung’s Android Dominance Puts Squeeze on HTC and Motorola
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-02-29T11:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/samsung-s-android-dominance-puts-squeeze-on-htc-and-motorola.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android has surged
past  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone to become the biggest smartphone
platform, attracting a crowd of phonemakers. Yet  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) ’s growing dominance may threaten the software’s
success and crimp sales growth for some competitors.  Companies such as  HTC Corp. (2498)  and  Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc. (MMI)  risk being squeezed between  South Korea ’s Samsung and
China’s Huawei Technologies Co. HTC, which introduced its HTC
One phone this week at the  Mobile World Congress  in Barcelona,
shifted its focus to Android in 2009.  Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. (MMI)  also turned to Android to reverse a three-year
sales slump.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1F)  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop, who
decided against using Android and instead teamed up with
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone platform to revive the
Finnish company’s fortunes, watches the crowded Android market
with relief.  “There are certain players who are quite strong in
Android, others who have become less strong, there’s a balancing
going out there,” Elop said in Barcelona. “If we had made a
decision to go Android, how would we be feeling right now? I
feel much better being in the place where we have a unique and
differentiated point of view.”  Market Shares  At least a half a dozen different handset makers are
jostling for position on Android, which is available free to any
manufacturer. Android’s share  jumped  to 51 percent of all
smartphone sales in the fourth quarter from 31 percent a year
earlier, according to  Gartner Inc. (IT)   Among individual companies, Samsung’s share of the global
smartphone market climbed to 22.5 percent in the fourth quarter
from 9.4 percent a year earlier and Huawei’s more than doubled
to 3.5 percent from 1.4 percent, according to researcher IDC.
HTC’s market share dropped to 6.4 percent from 8.6 percent while
Motorola fell to 3.3 percent from 4.8 percent.  The strain has started to show in the results of some
players.  HTC, based in Taoyuan,  Taiwan , in October forecast fourth-
quarter sales that trailed analyst estimates after already
missing them in the previous period. The maker of Sensation and
Desire handsets cut that outlook less than a month later, before
forecasting revenue this quarter that also fell below the
average estimate.  ‘Tough Spot’  It’s a fall from grace for HTC, which briefly was the
largest smartphone maker in the U.S. market in the third quarter
of last year as consumers waited for the latest version of the
iPhone to come out, according to researcher Canalys.  “You’re in a tough spot if you have to compete with
Samsung on quality and Huawei on cost,” said  Matt Thornton , an
analyst at Avian Securities in  Boston , who’s come to the
wireless show in  Spain .  Shares of Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung rose 1.8 percent
in  Seoul  today. HTC climbed 5.1 percent on the Taipei exchange.
Motorola was little changed yesterday in  New York .  HTC Chief Executive Officer Peter Chou’s retort is that
analysts forecasting these sales decline lack sufficient insight
into HTC’s product lineup.  “We respect peoples’ opinions, they have an opinion based
on what they see, that’s fine, but they don’t know what we’re
working on,” Chou said in a Feb. 26 interview in Barcelona.
“So there’s always a gap.”  Scale, TV Experience  Samsung, the world’s second-largest handset maker after
Apple, said this week that it plans to double sales of
smartphones and tablet computers this year with a wider range of
its Galaxy-branded devices. In Barcelona, the company is
releasing the Galaxy Beam, which it says is the world’s thinnest
smartphone and also can double as a video projector.  Samsung has thrived because it can create exciting new
touch-screen devices by drawing on the strength and size of its
design team that also crafts televisions and other electronics
goods, said  Tavis McCourt , a  Morgan Keegan (3543Q)  analyst who’s also
attending the show.  At the opposite end of the spectrum, Huawei,  China ’s
largest handset maker, has excelled by selling smartphones
cheaper than others, making life difficult for HTC or Motorola
to go after the low end.  “Huawei is always going to be able to compete on price,
and they have great distribution in India and China,” both key
growth markets, McCourt said.  Huawei’s revenue rose 11 percent last year, exceeding $32
billion, William Xu, a board member and president in charge of
its enterprise division, said in an interview in Barcelona.  Jha’s Turnaround  Motorola Mobility Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Jha made
the decision to focus on Android about four years ago to reverse
slumping sales. Helped by the popularity of models like the
Motorola Droid and a reinvented version of the Razr, mobile
device sales stopped shrinking and last quarter rose 5 percent
to $2.5 billion from a year earlier.  In Barcelona, Motorola Mobility has showcased a new Razr
variant with MotoCast, software that allows consumers to stream
content from a desktop computer to a smartphone.  Google’s $12.5 billion acquisition of Libertyville,
Illinois-based Motorola Mobility is nearing completion, and CEO
 Larry Page  told analysts last month that Google won’t favor the
handset maker it’s buying. Motorola Mobility Senior Vice
President Christy Wyatt said it was too early to say how
Google’s clout will change prospects.  ‘Going Deeper’  “With more resources, we’ll only focus more intensely on
going deeper with Android,” she said yesterday in an interview.  Motorola Mobility has struggled to achieve consistent
profitability since being spun off from  Motorola Inc. (MMI)  in January
2011. It lost $80 million in the fourth quarter, compared with a
profit of $80 million a year earlier, and cited the “increased
competitive environment” at the time as acting as a brake on
sales growth.  Wyatt says targeting business users is an area where
Motorola can distinguish itself from Samsung and others,
disputing the notion that not all the major Android players can
thrive.  “I don’t necessarily think we feel that the smartphone
market is saturated to the point that there isn’t room for
growth -- and competition is good,” she said. “This year
Samsung is doing fantastic, next year we’ll see who’s doing
fantastic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Barcelona at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  