-- SandRidge Chief Ward Shuns Shale as Investors Pay Price: Energy
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-02-29T21:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/sandridge-chief-ward-shuns-shale-as-investors-pay-price-energy.html
SandRidge Energy Inc. (SD) , the U.S.
explorer that pumps oil from aged fields while competitors drill
in younger shale plays, has become the most-leveraged
independent producer as it ramps up crude production.  Chief Executive Officer Tom Ward, who has built up debt to
3.8 times earnings, this month made his third major purchase
since 2009 in a $3.7 billion drive for cheaper fields. The self-
described contrarian positioned SandRidge as an alternative to
shale explorers such as  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG)  and  Chesapeake Energy
Corp. (CHK)  that as a group invested more than $33 billion in 2010.  Ward, who owns $225 million of SandRidge shares, says the
takeovers and expanded drilling will help triple earnings in
three years. His plan in the past 12 months led to a 19 percent
tumble in the stock, almost three times a 6.5 percent drop in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Explorers and Producers Index, while
59 percent of analysts recommend holding or selling the stock,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Tom is one of those CEOs where he’s going to do what he
wants to do,” said Logan Moncrief,  principal at private equity
fund Moncrief Willingham Energy Advisers in Houston, who
declined to disclose his current position. “Every time you
think you have it figured out, they do something to make you
question it again.”  Ward’s strategy at the  Oklahoma  City-based driller drew
investor criticism as it helped swell  total debt  to $2.8
billion, or 3.8 times last year’s earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization.  Debt Ratio  That’s the highest Ebitda ratio among U.S. independent
producers with a greater than $2 billion market value, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. EOG, the largest oil producer in
the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas, has a debt ratio of 1.1.  Ward, a co-founder of Chesapeake, is the largest investor
in SandRidge, with a 6.2 percent stake, according to Bloomberg
data. He counters investor skepticism by vowing to meet a three-
year plan to double oil production by the end of 2014, triple
Ebitda and reduce its debt-to-Ebitda ratio, which has fallen
from 4.9 a year ago.  “Our credit metrics are improving,” Ward told analysts
and investors on a Feb. 24 earnings call, brushing aside the
idea that debt should be reduced soon.  SandRidge rocketed to a record $68.54 eight months after a
November 2007 initial public offering at $26, benefiting from
rising oil prices that peaked at $147 in July 2008. The stock
fell back into single digits as commodity prices plunged and the
global recession took hold. The shares fell 1.7 percent to $8.67
at the close in  New York  today, down by two-thirds from the IPO
price.  Dynamic Sell-Off  The  stock  dove as much as 14 percent during the day on Feb.
2 after Ward announced he was paying $1.3 billion for a set of
wells in the shallow Gulf of Mexico. SandRidge’s acquisition of
closely held Houston producer Dynamic Offshore Resources LLC
raised the question of whether SandRidge, a mostly land-based
producer, would lose its focus by growing in the Gulf.  “I didn’t expect anyone to understand the strategy until
we prove it out,” Ward said in an interview.  Ward says the wells’ 25,000 barrels-a-day of production,
about evenly split between oil and gas, secure SandRidge a
steady source of cash that will help pay for expanded drilling
in the Mississippian, SandRidge’s  largest asset  in northern
Oklahoma and southern  Kansas .  “The company will struggle to meet its stated growth
targets and close a significant funding gap,” Anne Cameron, an
analyst at BNP Paribas, wrote Feb. 15 in a note to investors.
She rates the shares at “reduce,” according to the note. She’s
skeptical of SandRidge’s economics in the Mississippian.  ‘Tackling’ Concerns  Ward said yesterday at an analyst day meeting in New York
the Mississippian acreage will be the company’s growth engine.  “We found something that we knew about that others weren’t
focused on a few years ago,” Ward said of the Mississippian at
the meeting. The key to profiting off the play is the company’s
own disposal-well system for getting rid of the large amount of
water that comes up with the oil, he said.  By continuing to acquire assets, the company will increase
 cash flow  and its overall size, shrinking its debt load in
comparison, said Duane Grubert, a Stamford, Connecticut-based
analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group, which owns at least 1
percent of the company’s shares.  The strategy has “scared away some plain vanilla
institutions,” said Grubert, who considers SandRidge the most
under-recognized company among independent exploration and
production companies. “I see this thing as really emerging as a
home run over the next year or so.”  ‘Anti-Shale’ Producer  Competitor EOG is aiming for average costs per well of
about $5.5 million in the Eagle Ford, almost twice as much as
SandRidge’s plan for about $3 million in well costs in the
Mississippian.  By seeking out conventional fields in the Permian, the
Mississippian and the  Gulf of Mexico , SandRidge is turning
itself into an “anti-shale” producer, BNP’s Cameron wrote.  Ward has described SandRidge before as being a “back to
the future” company. He likes the older fields in the Permian
and the Mississippian because they’re less crowded with
competitors who push up the price for service companies.  With service costs staying flat in its two largest plays
since the middle of 2009, SandRidge is getting a 72 percent
return on investment in the Permian Basin in West Texas and
“close to 100 percent” return in the Mississippian play in
northern Oklahoma and southern Kansas, Ward told analysts and
investors on the earnings call.  The company, with a 1.5 million-acre stake in the
Mississippian, is the most active operator in the formation.
Chesapeake,  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN) ,  Range Resources Corp. (RRC)  and  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  have all moved in, as well.  SandRidge more than quadrupled annual spending on drilling
and production to $621 million in its Mississippian regional
unit last year and boosted the Permian unit 57 percent to $701
million compared to 2010. That came as SandRidge chopped
spending from three other units by a combined 89 percent. As a
result of the Mississippian and Permian plays, yearly oil
production climbed 60 percent to 11.8 million barrels in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  