-- Santorum ‘Snob’ Attack on College Collides With Wage Gains
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-02-29T16:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/santorum-snob-attack-on-obama-s-college-pitch-collides-with-wage-gains.html
Republican candidate  Rick Santorum ’s
attack on President Barack Obama’s promotion of a college
education conflicts with the broad appeal and economic value
that higher education holds for young Americans.  With the economy still struggling after emerging from a
recession, more than two-thirds of U.S. adults view a college
degree as essential for getting a good job, according to a
Gallup Poll published in August. And 94 percent of parents with
children under 18 expect them to go to college, said  Paul
Taylor , executive vice president at the Pew Research Center in
Washington.  “It’s a near-universal aspiration,” said Taylor.  It pays off: The median annual pay of those 25 or older
with a bachelor’s degree was $56,472 in 2009, 70 percent more
than those with a high school diploma, Census Bureau figures for
2009 show. A  record  30 percent of adults have a four-year
degree, the Census shows.  Santorum, a former U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania  who has
made social issues -- such as his long-standing opposition to
abortion rights -- a centerpiece of his campaign for the
Republican presidential nomination, knocked Obama for seeking to
have more Americans attend college.  Shift From 2006  That’s a turnabout from Santorum’s re-election campaign in
2006, when he supported boosting grants for college students and
was “committed to ensuring that every Pennsylvanian has access
to higher education,” according to his website.  Obama has announced a goal of making the U.S. the country
with the highest percentage of college graduates in the world by
2020.  “He wants everybody in America to go to college,”
Santorum told supporters in Troy, Michigan, on Feb. 25, in a
speech promoting manufacturing jobs and warning that “some
liberal college professor” would be “trying to indoctrinate
them.”  “What a snob,” Santorum said of the president. “He wants
to remake you in his image. I want to create jobs so people can
remake their children into their image, not his.”  Santorum, 53, has an undergraduate degree from  Pennsylvania
State University , a master’s in business administration from the
 University of Pittsburgh  and a law degree from Dickinson School
of Law.  A father of seven who with his wife has home-schooled their
children, Santorum has reported having five so-called 529
college-savings accounts for his children. Combined, they held
between $25,000 and $375,000, according to his financial
disclosure filing, which requires that holdings be listed only
in ranges.  Vocational Training  Appearing Feb. 26 on ABC’s “This Week,” Santorum said
that to lay out four-year college as a goal devalues the role of
jobs that require vocational training.  Santorum’s comment during the last weekend before
yesterday’s primaries in Michigan and Arizona was “probably
over the line,” said New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , a
supporter of Santorum rival Mitt Romney.  “Every kid doesn’t want to go to college, but I think we
should aspire to let every child reach his maximum or her
maximum potential,” Christie, who earlier this year was viewed
as a potential presidential contender, said on CBS’s “Face the
Nation” on Feb. 26. “I don’t think the president is a snob for
saying that.”  Santorum lost the Arizona primary to Romney, a former
governor of  Massachusetts , by 20 percentage points and the
 Michigan  race by three points. In Michigan, 44 percent of voters
with college degrees supported Romney and 36 percent backed
Santorum, according to  exit polling .  Foreign Competition  Competitiveness is the real issue, say Silicon Valley
executives who long have complained that U.S. education policies
aren’t producing workers with the necessary skills.  “Every other country is pouring money and time into
educating their workforces to compete with ours,” said Dan Rosensweig, former operating chief of Yahoo! Inc. and now chief
executive officer of the online education company Chegg Inc. in
 Santa Clara ,  California .  “I hardly consider it a snob to ask people of this country
to prepare themselves and educate themselves for the kinds of
jobs that will be available,” he said.  Culture Wars  U.S. colleges have been the target of Republicans in the
so-called culture wars since the 1960s, when then-California
Governor  Ronald Reagan  clashed with protesters at the  University
of California , Berkeley, demonstrating against the  Vietnam War .
In 2006, Santorum complained that academia was in thrall to the
left, according to the Chronicle of Higher Education.  Santorum has a point, said Andrew Hacker, a political
scientist at Queens College in  New York  City who has written
about higher education.  “Colleges are, shall we say, a warm bed of fervent
liberalism,” Hacker said. Still, he said the economic benefits
are clear and Santorum probably won’t score much with voters by
challenging it.  “There’s no question that a college degree gets you a
higher salary for the rest of your life,” he said. “There’s no
votes in trying to gang up on the colleges.”  The  unemployment rate  for high-school graduates who didn’t
go to college was 8.4 percent in January, twice the 4.2 percent
rate for those with bachelor’s degrees or higher, according to
the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  ‘Only Real Alternative’  Walter Howard, who works evenings stocking shelves at a
Wal-Mart in Clay, New York, spends days in class at  community
college . He sees it as a way to a better life in that Rust Belt
town where good jobs seem few and far between.  A 40-year-old Republican, Howard sees no merit to
Santorum’s complaint.  “He’s wrong,” Howard said. “The economy’s not getting
better. The economy’s not shifting and college just seems like
the only real alternative to try and better yourself.”  Scott DeRuischer, 38, a Republican from Ionia, Michigan,
said he didn’t recognize the importance of college when he was
in high school and plans to encourage his three children to
pursue degrees. The self-employed homebuilder wants to become an
architect and is studying now at the community college in
Lansing.  “I don’t see it as snobbish,” he said. “It makes sense,
if you have the ability to do it.”  At a conference at the White House on Feb. 27, Obama urged
visiting governors to avoid cutting resources for public
education as they look for ways to trim their budgets, saying
the economic growth of the U.S. will depend on a skilled
workforce.  Obama’s ‘Strong Message’  Arizona  Governor Jan Brewer, a Republican who drew
attention for her pointed exchange with Obama when he visited
her state in January, praised the speech.  Obama “has a good, strong message on education,” she told
reporters. “That is one area on which we agree.”  At a polling place in Phoenix yesterday, Regan Widdifield,
a 37-year-old IT project manager at Apollo Group, the parent
company of the private online college University of Phoenix,
criticized Santorum’s comments.  “I may not agree with Obama about many things, but getting
smarter never hurt anyone,” Widdifield said after casting her
ballot for Romney.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy Homan in  Washington  at 
 Thoman1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  