-- Nigeria’s Sanusi Says Price Surge Doesn’t Mean Higher Rates
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-02-29T14:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/sanusi-says-inappropriate-to-act-on-nigeria-s-january-inflation.html
Nigerian central bank Governor
Lamido Sanusi said the surge in inflation last month was in line
with policy makers’ expectations and doesn’t require an interest
rate response.  “We front-loaded most of the tightening in anticipation of
these policies and thus can afford to hold so long as inflation
behaves in line with our forecast,” Sanusi said in an e-mailed
response to questions yesterday.  The  International Monetary Fund  said yesterday a pause is
“warranted” after  Nigeria ’s central bank raised its benchmark
rate by 6 percentage points since 2010, to a record 12 percent,
to combat price pressures. Sanusi said he is in “broad
agreement” with the IMF.  “A pause is not the same thing as easing and monetary
policy will remain tight so long as monetary easing is seen as
constituting a major risk to inflation,” the governor said.  Inflation (NGCPIYOY) , which accelerated to 12.6 percent in January,
will probably peak at “just under 15 percent” by the third
quarter and slow to under 10 percent by the end of 2013, Sanusi
said. President  Goodluck Jonathan  partially scrapped a fuel
subsidy in January, raising gasoline prices in Africa’s biggest
oil producer to 97 naira ($0.62) a liter from 65 naira.  Inflation Target  “We think the CBN is setting policy with its eye on the
foreign exchange rate and the budget -- more so than inflation
on its own,” CSL Stockbrokers Ltd. analysts, led by Guy Czartoryski in  London , wrote in an e-mailed note to clients
today.  Sanusi had said last month the Abuja-based bank may raise
 interest rates  to curb inflation if lawmakers boost spending
above budgeted targets and lift the benchmark oil price from the
proposed $70 per barrel. The government is required to save oil
revenue from sales above that price.  The National Assembly’s committees are deliberating on a
budget proposal that would widen the deficit to 3 percent of
gross domestic product, from 2.8 percent forecast in December,
according to government estimates.  While the IMF called for a “clear inflation objective”
for the central bank, there isn’t a need for an inflation-
targeting policy, Sanusi said.  “The necessity, feasibility and propriety of it at this
point are not evident,” he said. “We remain committed to
stable prices with an implicit target of no more than 10 percent
and continue to insist that we must always seek stability that
is conducive to economic growth.”  Naira Gain  The currency of sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second-biggest economy
declined 0.1 percent to 157.7 per dollar as of 2:39 p.m. in
Lagos, the commercial capital, paring a monthly gain of 2.1
percent, the biggest since October 2010. The naira has advanced
2.9 percent this year.  The naira’s stability is “sustainable” because of a
decline in foreign-currency demand from petroleum importers,
rising oil prices and an improvement in investors’ risk
appetite, Sanusi said.  The central bank is “flexible” in managing the currency
and has no reason to lower the midpoint of its target range from
155 per dollar, Sanusi said in response to the IMF’s
recommendation for “greater exchange-rate flexibility.” The
central bank sells foreign currency at twice-weekly  auctions .  Longstanding Disagreement  “The debate about  exchange rate  flexibility and the goals
of monetary policy is a longstanding area of disagreement”
between the IMF and the central bank, CSL said.  Higher borrowing costs have fueled demand from foreign
investors seeking better returns, Sanusi said. Yields on debt
due in 2019 surged 419 basis points, or 4.19 percentage points,
to 16.02 percent in the past year, according to Feb. 28 prices
on the  Financial Markets Dealers Association website .  “The progress made in  Europe  on  Greece  has helped reduce
 risk aversion  and the high yields in our market are attracting
net portfolio inflow,” Sanusi said. “Exporters, particularly
oil majors are now moving into naira as against betting against
it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  