-- Saudi Oil-Rig Use Soars as Obama Pressed on SPR: Energy Markets
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-03-01T17:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/saudis-oil-rig-use-soars-as-obama-pressed-on-spr-energy-markets.html
Saudi Arabia is deploying the most
oil rigs in four years as it prepares for possible shortages
caused by tension with Iran, giving President Barack Obama one
less reason to answer calls to curb prices by releasing supplies
from America’s emergency reserves.  The number of rigs used in the desert kingdom more than
 doubled  in January from a year earlier, the biggest annual
increase on record, data from Houston-based  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) 
showed. As much as 1 million barrels a day of Iranian crude
exports may be lost as the U.S. and  Europe  tighten sanctions
against President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s government over its
nuclear program, the  International Energy Agency  said Feb. 10.  Brent, the benchmark for more than half the world’s oil,
rose to a 10-month high Feb. 24, propelling U.S. retail gasoline
to the highest ever for this time of year. Democrats urged Obama
last week to tap the nation’s Strategic Petroleum Reserve for
the 18th time since 1985. Iran’s buyers in  Asia  and the European
Union are cutting purchases to comply with sanctions, raising
demand for alternatives at a time when supplies are disrupted in
 Yemen , Libya, Syria and South Sudan.  “There’s a desire in  Saudi Arabia  and the U.S. to control
price volatility and reassure the market,” Sadad al-Husseini,
founder of Husseini Energy consultancy in Dhahran, said in a
phone interview on Feb. 29. That “is why Saudi is pumping near
record levels. Releasing oil from the SPR would be one of the
dumbest things to do. They are just saying that to try and bring
prices down.” He is a former executive vice president for
exploration and development at state-run Saudi Arabian Oil Co.  Shuttered Production  Oil surpassed $120 a barrel on Feb. 20 for the first time
since May, when conflict in Libya had all but shut off exports
from the north African country, as the sanctions against  Iran ,
OPEC’s second-largest producer, renewed concern supplies will be
disrupted.  Brent crude  for April delivery was at $125 a barrel
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange at 5:37 p.m.
local time. It traded at $125.55 on Feb. 24.  OPEC’s basket of crude oil has stayed above $120 a barrel
for five days, the longest stretch since July 2008. The  basket ,
a weighted average price of the main crude grades produced by
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, was at $120.79
yesterday after reaching $123.25 on Feb. 27, the highest since
July 23, 2008, data on the producer group’s website showed
today. Oil from OPEC rose to more than $120 for two days last
year on April 28 and April 29, after production in  Libya  was
disrupted amid the rebellion to oust  Muammar Qaddafi .  South Sudan, Yemen  Libyan supplies are about 460,000 barrels a day lower than
the 1.6 million barrel daily rate in January 2011, before the
uprising began, according to a Bloomberg survey of oil
companies, producers and analysts. About 600,000 barrels have
been lost because of fighting in Yemen and Syria and a halt to
supplies in South Sudan because of a dispute with its northern
neighbor, according to the Paris-based IEA.  Saudi Arabia (OPCRSAUD)  used 49 rigs in January, compared with 48 in
December and 23 a year earlier, Baker Hughes, the world’s third-
largest oilfield-services provider, said Feb. 7. The nation
employed an average of 47 rigs in the fourth quarter, up from 39
in the previous three months. Rig use peaked at 57 in August
2007, as the country implemented a program to boost capacity to
12.5 million barrels a day.  The kingdom is producing 9.8 million barrels a day and has
about 2.5 million barrels of spare capacity, Saudi Deputy Oil
Minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman said during a visit to
 India  last week, the same amount as Iran’s exports. The country
boosted output to 10.047 million in November, the highest level
since at least 1980.  ‘Responding to Demand’  “The kingdom is responding to demand for more crude, and
part of this demand is related to upcoming sanctions on Iranian
oil,”  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity-markets strategy
at BNP Paribas SA in London, said by e-mail on Feb. 27. “What
could motivate a use of strategic stocks is the lost volumes of
 Syria , Yemen and South Sudan combined. Here you face actual
supply disruptions, so the U.S. and the IEA may decide to
release oil to bridge the gap as Saudi continues to pump more.”  China ,  Japan , India and South Korea, which together bought
59 percent of Iran’s oil in the first half of last year, are
deepening ties with Saudi Arabia before U.S. sanctions against
financial institutions against the Islamic republic take effect
at the end of June. Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao, South Korean
President  Lee Myung Bak  and Japanese Foreign Minister Koichi Gemba visited  Riyadh  this year to strengthen relations, while
India asked for more oil on Feb. 23. tons more oil from Saudi
Arabia next year.  ‘No Need for Concern’  “The market is very much well supplied and there’s no need
for concern,” Saudi Arabia’s Prince Abdulaziz said on Feb. 23
in New Delhi. “We have demonstrated to our friends here how
much excess capacity there is today and how much capacity will
be there in the future.”  Saudi Aramco is bringing the Dammam field, its oldest, back
on stream this year, according to the Economist Intelligence
Unit. The heavy crude is a “good” replacement for Iranian oil,
said Caroline Bain, a senior economist at the London-based EIU.  “One explanation for reviving fields like Dammam is that
the Saudis are currently overestimating their spare capacity, so
they are drilling more as it looks like they may actually need
to use it,” Bain said. “We estimate them to have about 3
million barrels a day spare currently, but perhaps the amount
that’s readily available would be quite a lot less than that.”  The Obama administration is considering tapping the
strategic reserve, Energy Secretary Steven Chu said Feb. 28 amid
rising fuel prices. Gasoline this week averaged $3.721 a gallon,
10 percent above the levels of a year ago and the highest for
this time of year in Energy Department records starting in 1973.  ‘Purely Political Move’  Representatives Ed Markey of Massachusetts, Peter Welch of
Vermont and Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut, asked Obama Feb. 22 to
release oil from the strategic stockpile. Republicans opposed
the request.  “Releasing oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve would
be, at best, a short-term benefit,” Senator  John Barrasso , a
Wyoming Republican, said in a statement Feb. 28. “This purely
political move would cause more harm than good.”  The Republicans, the energy industry and some Democrats
oppose a release now, saying supplies must be available, for
example, in the event Iran blocks the Strait of Hormuz, the
transit point for 20 percent of the world’s oil.  European  gasoline  prices at the pump reached a record 1.6
euros a liter on Feb. 24, or $8.15 a gallon, weekly EU data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “Saudi drilling is mostly independent of the use of the
SPR because they act on different time horizons,”  Jeffrey Currie , head of commodities research at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
in  London , said Feb. 27. “New rigs are going to have an effect
in the medium-to-longer term, while the SPR is a short-term
tool. The Obama administration has used the SPR before, so, if
the circumstances were right, I wouldn’t rule its use out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  