-- Scene Last Night at Whitney Biennial: Arnhold, Neidich, Close
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-02-29T16:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/scene-last-night-whitney-biennial-arnhold-neidich-close-lowry-posey.html
A horse costume lay on a glossy
white vanity in Sarah Michelson’s dressing room; Sam Lewitt
offered tiny spinning spheres emerging from what looked like an
 oil slick ; and framed pages of an old celestial handbook turned
up on the walls throughout the museum, placed there by Lutz
Bacher.  A preview of the  Whitney Biennial  last night unveiled art
that was pristine, messy, bewildering and pretty.  Who could resist the bright colors and shapes of Andrew
Masullo’s paintings, or the sculpture, more mischief from
Bacher, created from an organ?  Michael McCarty , owner of Michael’s restaurant, was one of
the first to arrive, on a blue carpet flanked by red curtains  -
- the colors of sponsor Delta Air Lines Inc.  Chuck Close , in a
blue African print, shared an elevator with Dennis and Coralie
Paul, eager for their sneak peek.  Brooke Garber Neidich, co-chairman of the museum board, was
found departing the second floor, where she said she liked the
work of LaToya Ruby Frazier.  Her mostly black-and-white photographs document despair
after a hospital closing in Braddock,  Pennsylvania . One Frazier
image shows a sign reading, “Everybody’s Work Is Equally
Important,” with a hand-written reply on the bottom, “No Way.”  Garber Neidich also said she liked Dawn Kasper, on the
third floor, in the back.  “She’s living in the museum!” Garber Neidich said.  That explained -- a little -- why Kasper’s room looked like
a surreal suburban tag sale, complete with a spinning tennis
racquet and a wall projection of an animated bee.  Parker Posey  John Arnhold, chairman of First Eagle Investment Management
LLC, toured the Biennial with his family. In front of a delicate
weaving of gold, orange and green thread by Kai Althoff, the
Arnholds reported they had seen the actress Parker Posey and the
director of the Frick Collection, Ian Wardropper. The Frick
recently opened a new gallery to display the Arnhold family’s
collection of Meissen porcelain.  “I’m going to go in for a wash and wax,” said Don McMahon,
the executive editor of  Artforum , having fun with the car-wash-
like strips of black rubber at the entrance to Werner Herzog’s
installation, “Hearsay of the Soul.”  A moment later, the car wash spit out Joel Wachs, president
of the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts. “The second
floor is really strong,” Wachs said. “I hope the rest will be as
good.”  Glenn Lowry  It was the night for museum directors to stop by, among
them  Glenn Lowry , of the Museum of  Modern Art , and Holly
Hotchner of the Museum of Arts and Design. Adam Weinberg,
director of the Whitney Museum of American Art, spent the
evening in the lobby, greeting all.  That’s where we found one of the curators of the Biennial,
Jay Sanders, sitting on a bench, watching a mob of people trying
to get downstairs to the bar. The preview had been going for a
few hours by then. How was he feeling?  “Tired,” Sanders said. “Last night was the party for the
artists. And then we took them out for karaoke.”  Sanders performed  John Lennon ’s “Watching the Wheels.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 