-- Sex, Humiliation Scheduled Daily in ‘Assistance’: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-02-29T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/sex-humiliation-scheduled-daily-in-assistance-jeremy-gerard.html
The writer is Leslye Headland. If
the odd spelling doesn’t make you remember her name,
“Assistance” will. It’s the funniest play about the movie
business since David Mamet’s “Speed-the-Plow.”  Most black comedies about back-stabbing, greed, furtive
sex, double-dealing, grandiose bosses and extreme bad behavior
in the  film industry  tend to be set in Hollywood.  “Assistance,” presented by  Playwrights Horizons , takes
place in the downtown Manhattan headquarters of the Daniel
Weisinger Company.  He’s a producer who grinds up assistants and spits them out
for breakfast, lunch and dinner. The name suggests  Harvey Weinstein , who just won the best film Oscar for “The Artist.”
The land-mine office atmosphere suggests Scott Rudin, who just
lost the best film Oscar for “Extremely Loud and Incredibly
Close.”  “Working for Daniel is like living the last thirty minutes
of ‘Goodfellas’ over and over again,” Nick (Michael Esper) says
to Nora (played by Virginia Kull). “Every day is the
day you’re coked out of your mind and you’ve got a million
things to do and everything that could go wrong does go wrong.
And the narcs are shadowing you in a helicopter. And you get
royally f****d by the very people you dedicated your life to ...
but MAN!...What a rush!? Right?”  Taking Calls  Typical workdays run 24/7 and consist of taking Daniel’s
calls, which may require immediate plane tickets to  London ,
picking up his children at school or correcting the grammar of
the unlucky person who answered the last call, who’s at risk of
immediate dismissal.  Nora is the newest member of the put-upon team; Nick takes
her under his wing, and that’s a euphemism. Esper is the
definition of slacker until the phone goes off, when a calm
cunning voice masks the abject fear registering on his face.  Kull, brilliant as the girlfriend in “Man and Boy,” is
quickly becoming one of our most beguiling comic stage
actresses. She’s got an irresistible mix of slapstick timing,
vulnerability and fearlessness. The very fine cast includes
Lucas Near-Verbrugghe, Sue Jean Kim, Amy Rosoff and Bobby
Steggert.  Staged like Fourth of July fireworks by Trip Cullman, the
dialogue crackles, the jokes hit their marks and the comic
savagery smolders, seductively dangerous as glowing coals. David
Korins’s hip office set is a character in itself, and the coup
de theater that ends this 85-minute one-act is dazzling, in a
nightmarish sort of way that adds the perfect final touch.  Through March 11 at 416 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-
279-4200;  http://wwww.ticketcentral.com .  Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 