-- Goldman, Shell, Credit Agricole, TD in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-03-02T23:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/shell-fortescue-bodog-credit-agricole-wal-mart-in-court-news.html
(Corrects to say Nicolazzo earlier withdrew as Kolchinsky’s
lawyer in Moody’s item of report published Feb. 29.)  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are among banks warned by
federal regulators that they may face civil claims tied to sales
of mortgage-backed securities.  Goldman Sachs and Wells Fargo said yesterday that they
received Wells notices from the Securities and Exchange
Commission, warning that the agency’s staff may recommend
enforcement. The SEC has issued such notices to multiple banks
including JPMorgan, the nation’s largest, in probes focusing on
mortgage securities, said people with knowledge of the matter
who asked not to be identified because the communications
weren’t public.  Almost four years after mounting mortgage defaults prompted
unprecedented government bailouts of the financial system,
regulators are still examining how banks packaged and sold home
loans to investors. The SEC is looking for evidence that firms
failed to disclose underlying credit weaknesses in mortgage
pools and delinquencies, Jason Anthony, special counsel for the
agency’s structured products unit, said last week. He didn’t
identify companies under scrutiny.  Goldman Sachs got a so-called Wells notice Feb. 24 relating
to disclosures for a late-2006 offering of $1.3 billion in
subprime residential mortgage-backed securities, the company
said yesterday in an annual financial report. The New York-based
firm said it “will be making a submission to, and intends to
engage in a dialogue with, the SEC staff seeking to address
their concerns.”  The investment bank paid $550 million in 2010 to settle SEC
claims that it misled investors on a mortgage-linked investment
in 2007. In that case, the company said it made a “mistake” in
omitting disclosures.  Wells Fargo, which revealed the SEC’s warning in an annual
report yesterday, said the government has been examining whether
it properly described facts and risks in offering documents.
Government agencies are also looking at whether the San
Francisco-based bank may have violated fair lending laws or
other regulations when making home loans, the firm said. The
company is providing information requested by various agencies
conducting investigations, it said.  Spokesmen for Goldman Sachs, Wells Fargo, New York-based
JPMorgan and the SEC either declined to comment on the
investigations or didn’t respond to messages.  For more, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Shell Asks U.S. Supreme Court to Bar Human-Rights Suit  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  asked the U.S.  Supreme Court  to rule
that the company can’t be sued by Nigerians seeking damages for
torture and murders committed by their government in the early
1990s.  The high court in  Washington  is considering whether
companies are exempt from two statutes imposing liability for
human-rights violations. Shell,  Europe ’s biggest oil company,
argued yesterday that the Alien Tort Statute, which dates to
1789, can’t be used to sue corporations. The Nigerian plaintiffs
claim there’s nothing in the law that limits liability to
individuals.  “We do not urge a rule of corporate impunity here,” said
Kathleen Sullivan, a lawyer for Shell. “Corporate officers are
liable for human-rights violations and for those they direct
among their employees. There can also be suits under state law
or the domestic laws of nations. But there may not be ATS
federal common-law causes of action against corporations.”  The case, Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum Co., was filed in
2002 by 12 Nigerians claiming they were harmed by “widespread
and systematic human rights violations” committed by the regime
of the former military dictator Sani Abacha, including torture,
executions, illegal detentions and indiscriminate killings in
the Ogoni region of the Niger Delta.  Paul Hoffman, who represents the Nigerian plaintiffs,
criticized Shell’s position, arguing that “even if these
corporations had jointly operated torture centers with the
military dictatorship in Nigeria to detain, torture, and kill
all opponents of Shell’s operations in Ogoni, the victims would
have no claim.”  In a separate lawsuit argued immediately after the Kiobel
case, the court considered whether the Torture Victim Protection
Act of 1991 exempts organizations, including corporations, from
suits over torture. In that case, Asid Mohamad, a U.S. citizen,
sued the Palestinian Authority and the Palestine Liberation
Organization for the torture and death of his father, a West
Bank-born U.S. businessman.  The cases are Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum Co.,10-1491
and Mohamad v. Palestinian Authority, 11-88, U.S. Supreme Court
(Washington).  For more, click here.  EPA Greenhouse Gas Rules Under Scrutiny in Two-Day Hearing  The  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ’s limits on
vehicle and industrial emissions of greenhouse gases including
carbon dioxide are being scrutinized by U.S. judges as a two-day
court hearing began in Washington.  The three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals is
considering challenges to the agency’s finding that greenhouse
gases are pollutants that endanger human health, and to rules
determining when states and industries must comply with
regulations curtailing their use.  Companies such as Massey Energy Co., business groups
including the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  and states led by Texas
and Virginia are seeking to stop the agency through more than 60
lawsuits. They argue that the agency relied on biased data from
outside scientists, including some affiliated with the so-called
climategate scandal.  “Everything flows from the endangerment finding,” said
Robert Brenner, a senior fellow at the Nicholas Institute at
Duke University and a former EPA official. Overturning that
determination “will be the most difficult for the industry to
get a finding from the court.”  In 2007, the Supreme Court ruled that the EPA had authority
to regulate greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide and methane
under the Clean Air Act if the agency declared them a public
danger. The EPA issued a so-called endangerment finding in
December 2009, clearing the way for regulation of emissions from
power plants, factories and other sources linked to global
climate change.  The arguments have been split into three parts. The panel
heard arguments yesterday on the endangerment finding and
challenges to a 2010 rule on emissions from motor vehicles that
opponents said improperly sets greenhouse-gas standards for
stationary sources, such as steel mills and power plants.  Today, the court will consider challenges to the EPA’s
“tailoring rule,” which limits the businesses covered by
carbon regulation and phases in controls.  The agency aims to phase in industrial polluters covered by
the carbon rules through 2016. Imposing restrictions all at once
and without exceptions would be “absurd,” EPA Administrator
Lisa Jackson has said.  The EPA argued in court filings that the tailoring rule is
acceptable under the Clean Air Act and necessary to avoid states
being overrun with permit requests.  The case is Coalition for Responsible Regulation Inc. v.
Environmental Protection Agency, 09-1322, U.S. Court of Appeals,
District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Forrest Appeals to Australia’s Top Court to Keep Fortescue Post  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  founder  Andrew Forrest  is
fighting Australian regulators to maintain management control
over the company that made him the country’s third-richest
person.  Forrest faces removal from his chairman post after the
Australian Securities and Investment Commission won an appeals
court ruling last year that said he and Fortescue, the country’s
third-biggest exporter of iron ore, broke regulatory rules and
misled shareholders with a description of contracts with three
Chinese companies. He’s appealing to the highest court in the
land to reverse that decision.  The High Court’s ruling will have ramifications for
corporate directors in Australia beyond Forrest and Fortescue
after the appeals court narrowed the extent to which directors
and executives can rely on business judgment for decisions, said
Georgie Farrant, a partner at Baker & McKenzie in Sydney.  The issue of business judgment is “one of the big things
we’re hoping to get guidance on from the High Court,” said
Farrant, who isn’t involved in the case. “It’s the first time
the High Court has an opportunity to look at this issue.”  The appeals court ruled that business judgment isn’t a
defense for making an inaccurate disclosure to shareholders.  The appeal case is Australian Securities and Investments
Commission v. Fortescue Metals Group Ltd., WAD23/2010, Federal
Court of Australia, Full Court (Perth).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Bodog Founder Indicted for $100 Million Gambling Business  Calvin Ayre, a Canadian who founded online-gambling company
Bodog in 1994, was indicted by U.S. prosecutors in Baltimore for
conducting an illegal business that generated more than $100
million in winnings.  Ayre, 50, and three other men are accused of conspiring to
commit money laundering while conducting the business from at
least June 2005 until Jan. 6, according to court papers unsealed
yesterday in Baltimore. Ayre and the men, all Canadian citizens,
allegedly moved funds from Bodog’s accounts in Switzerland,
England, Malta, Canada and elsewhere to pay winnings to gamblers
and media brokers in the U.S.  “Sports betting is illegal in Maryland and federal law
prohibits bookmakers from flouting that law simply because they
are located outside the country,” U.S. Attorney Rod J.
Rosenstein said in a statement.  A former employee of Bodog told prosecutors that the
company had hundreds of workers in Canada and Costa Rica who
handle the daily operations of taking bets, tracking sports
events, customer service and financial transactions, according
to a court filing.  Federal prosecutors also seized the Internet domain name
bodog.com. Ayre and his co-conspirators paid more than $42
million from 2005 to 2008 for an advertising campaign to attract
U.S. gamblers to the website, prosecutors said.  The domain name isn’t currently in use, Ayre’s BodogBrand
said in a statement posted on Calvinayre.com. The domain had
been licensed to Morris Mohawk Gaming Group since 2009.
BodogBrand.com revoked the licensing agreement in December,
according to the statement.  “Bodog UK, Bodog Europe and Bodog Asia have never taken
bets from the U.S.,” according to the statement. “The
BodogBrand is currently consulting with its legal advisers with
a view to having the domain returned.”  If convicted, Ayre and his co-defendants face a maximum of
five years in prison for conducting the gambling business and 20
years in prison for money-laundering conspiracy. The men aren’t
in custody and no court appearances have yet been scheduled,
Vickie LeDuc, a spokeswoman for Rosenstein, said.  The case is U.S. v. Bodog Entertainment Group SA, U.S.
District Court for the District of Maryland (Baltimore).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Moody’s Must Face Ex-Analyst Kolchinsky’s Suit, Judge Rules  Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  must face a lawsuit by former analyst Eric
Kolchinsky, who claimed the firm slashed his pay and cut his
duties after he questioned how his colleagues were rating
collateralized debt obligations.  Kolchinsky, the former head of the structured-products
group at Moody’s that rated CDOs, claims in his lawsuit that
Moody’s retaliated against him after he said it was failing to
properly rate the securities. The securities collapsed in value
with the spike in home mortgage defaults in 2008.  “Kolchinsky has sufficiently alleged that Moody’s took
‘unfavorable personnel action’ against him after he reported
what he believed were potential violations of the federal
securities laws,” U.S. District Judge Paul Crotty in Manhattan
said in a 15-page opinion yesterday.  Crotty didn’t rule on the merits of Kolchinsky’s lawsuit
and dismissed some claims, including defamation and intentional
infliction of emotional distress. The judge allowed to proceed a
claim under the 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley Act that protects employees
who report possible violations of securities laws.  “We are extremely pleased that the court dismissed all but
one of the plaintiff’s claims, and we are confident that we will
prevail on the remaining claim once the court has looked at all
of the facts,” New York-based Moody’s said in an e-mailed
statement.  Adam Nicolazzo, a lawyer for Kolchinsky before he withdrew
from the case Nov. 3 according to court records, didn’t return a
phone call seeking comment on the decision.  The case is Kolchinsky v. Moody’s Corp., 10-cv-06840,  U.S.
District Court (1071L) , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Khan May Testify Against Whitman Capital Founder, U.S. Says  Roomy Khan , the former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  executive who aided the
prosecution of hedge fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam , may be called
as a witness in Whitman Capital LLC founder Doug Whitman’s
insider trading case, prosecutors said.  If Khan testifies against Whitman, it will be the first
time she has appeared as a government witness at trial. While
Khan was a key informant for the government in its prosecution
of Rajaratnam for insider trading, she never testified at the
trial of the Galleon Group LLC co-founder last year in New York.  Another possible witness against Whitman is Karl Motey, an
independent consultant from California who pleaded guilty and
has testified at another insider-trading trial in New York, the
U.S. said Feb. 27 in a filing in federal court in Manhattan. The
government also disclosed that it may call a third witness, an
unidentified New York business person who has cooperated in a
federal investigation of insider trading.  The third person was described in the filing by prosecutors
as a “parallel tippee of Roomy Khan’s” who received “inside
information” about  Google Inc. (GOOG)  “around the same time as
Whitman.”  Whitman was indicted Feb. 10 on charges that he part in two
separate insider-trading conspiracies, allegedly using illegal
tips on Google,  Polycom Inc. (PLCM)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) 
to make more than $900,000 for his Menlo Park, California-based
hedge fund.  He’s charged with two counts of conspiracy to commit
securities fraud and two counts of securities fraud. If
convicted, he faces as long as five years in prison on each
conspiracy charge and 20 years on each securities fraud charge.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in New York, who is
presiding over the case, has scheduled a hearing for today on
Whitman’s request to move the case to California. A trial is
scheduled for July 30 in New York, court records show.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Whitman, 12-cr-00125; the
civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Whitman, 12-
cv-01055, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Credit Agricole Indosuez Wins Reversal of Job Case Retrial  
Credit Agricole Indosuez (ACA)  won reversal of a 2010 verdict in favor
of an ex-analyst who said the bank interfered with his bid for a
job at  Dreyfus Corp. (399423Q)   U.S. District Judge Thomas P. Griesa in New York abused his
discretion in 2009 by tossing the original verdict and granting
a retrial of a suit filed by William Raedle, the federal appeals
court in Manhattan  ruled yesterday . The trial judge concluded
the verdict was “impossible to accept with the weight of the
evidence.”  Raedle sued the unit of Credit Agricole SA, France’s
second-largest bank, in 2004, saying his former employer
wrongfully interfered with his effort to win a job at Dreyfus.
Raedle, who was fired from the Credit Agricole in 2001 for poor
performance, alleged that his supervisor at the bank told a
prospective boss at Dreyfus Corp. that he had “mental issues”
and that cost him the job.  Griesa reversed a verdict in favor of Credit Agricole after
the first trial in 2009, ruling that the jury’s decision was
“drastically wrong” and “would result in a serious
injustice” if allowed to stand.  Raedle prevailed in a second trial in 2010. A federal court
jury found that the bank had interfered with Raedle’s bid for a
new job and awarded about $2.4 million in damages.  The appeals court ordered the original verdict in the
bank’s favor restored.  Mary Guzman, a spokeswoman for Credit Agricole, didn’t
immediately reply to a voice-mail message seeking comment.  The case is Raedle v. Credit Agricole, 04-cv-2235, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
appeal is Raedle v. Credit Agricole Indosuiz, 10-2565, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (New York).  Macy’s Asks to Reject Martha Stewart Living Counterclaims  Macy’s Inc. (M)  asked a court to reject counterclaims by Martha
Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. in their legal dispute over a plan
to open mini-boutiques in department stores operated by  J.C.
Penney Co. (JCP)   Macy’s sued in January to stop New York-based Martha
Stewart Living from executing the agreement to sell merchandise
in J.C. Penney stores. Macy’s, based in Cincinnati, said it has
the exclusive right to sell Martha Stewart-branded products in
certain categories.  Martha Stewart Living defended its agreement with J.C.
Penney in counterclaims filed earlier this month, accusing
Macy’s of breach of contract and saying that the retailer has
stocked and priced Martha Stewart products in a manner that
favors Macy’s own private-label brands.  Macy’s said in court papers filed Feb. 27 in New York state
Supreme Court in Manhattan that the proportion of sales for
exclusive and limited distribution brands, including those that
the retailer licenses from third parties such as  Martha Stewart
Living (MSO)  has increased since 2007, while the proportion of sales
for its private labels has remained about the same.  Jeanne Meyer, a spokeswoman for Martha Stewart Living,
declined immediate comment on the court papers filed by Macy’s.  The case is Macy’s Inc. v. Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia
Inc., 650197/2012, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  TD Bank Settles Lawsuit With Razorback Over Rothstein Fraud  Toronto Dominion Bank (TD)  agreed to settle a lawsuit with
investors who claimed it aided a $1.2 billion Ponzi scheme run
by imprisoned confidence man Scott Rothstein, a lawyer said in
court.  Barron’s and the Miami Herald reported that TD Bank would
pay $170 million. A bank attorney told Judge Jeffrey E.
Streitfeld yesterday in state court in Fort Lauderdale, Florida,
that a draft settlement was reached and is confidential. The
accord is with investors known as the Razorback Group.  “We have settled,” Glenn Goldstein, an attorney for the
bank, said. Goldstein and Bill Scherer, attorney for the
investors, both told the judge that they believe the settlement
is “enforceable,” though it hadn’t been signed. The investors
claimed losses of $188 million.  The case was scheduled for trial next week. Razorback’s
suit against Gibraltar Private Bank & Trust is still set to go
to trial next week. Gibraltar’s attorney argued yesterday that
the terms of the TD settlement should be made public. Streitfeld
said he expects to rule March 2 on whether it can remain
confidential.  “We feel it is in the bank’s best interest to put this
matter behind us,” Rebecca Acevedo, a spokeswoman for Toronto-
based TD Bank, said in an e-mail.  Rothstein, 49, is a disbarred attorney serving 50 years in
prison for a scheme he ran out of his Fort Lauderdale law firm.
He sold stakes to investors in fictitious employment- and sex-
discrimination cases. Seven other people have been criminally
charged.  The case is Razorback Funding LLC v. Rothstein, 09-062943,
17th Judicial Circuit in Broward County (Fort Lauderdale).  German EFSF Panel’s Powers Limited to Bond Sales by Court  Germany’s top court restricted the powers of a
parliamentary committee set up to approve emergency actions by
the euro rescue fund, limiting them to authorizing some
government bond purchases.  The Federal Constitutional Court struck down most of the
rules that allowed the panel to make decisions in situations
deemed urgent or confidential, court President Andreas Vosskuhle
said in Karlsruhe yesterday. The  ruling  means  Chancellor Angela
Merkel  must get approval from the full Bundestag, parliament’s
lower house, in most cases related to the European Financial
Stability Facility.  The nine-member, all-party subcommittee was established
last year to comply with a Sept. 7 constitutional court ruling
that upheld the Bundestag’s authority over budgetary aspects of
the EFSF. The 440-billion-euro ($591 billion) EFSF is Europe’s
main bailout fund, set up in May 2010 to help finance indebted
states. It’s scheduled to be replaced by the European Stability
Mechanism this year.  “It remains a ‘technicality’ but it demonstrates that the
court remains a key hurdle with regard to the debt crisis, and
has a high ‘nuisance power,’” Thomas Costerg, an economist at
Standard Charted Bank, said in an e-mailed statement. “There is
a dilemma between the need for democratic accounting and the
need for efficiency and speed: gathering the Bundestag for each
EFSF money disbursement is quite cumbersome.”  The court said in a written judgment that in cases of a
“heightened emergency” when the full parliament can’t be
assembled, it may be permissible to have decisions approved by
the 41-member budgetary committee. The budget panel better
mirrors the composition of the Bundestag and can review EFSF
issues when a quorum is present, the court said.  Deputy Finance Minister Steffen Kampeter told television
station N24 that the ruling wasn’t a defeat. The judges allow
parliament to make some decisions in a smaller group and his
ministry will work with lawmakers on rules that will comply with
the requirements outlined by the court, he said.  Lawmakers Swen Schulz and Peter Danckert, from the
opposition Social Democratic Party, had filed the suit
challenging the committee’s authority.  The case is: BVerfG, 2 BvE 8/11.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Royal Bank Co-Owned Firms With Municipal Tax Lien Conspirator  Royal Bank America, which operates 15 branches in
Pennsylvania and  New Jersey , co-owned two firms with a lawyer
who pleaded guilty to conspiring to rig bids at municipal tax
lien auctions, Bloomberg News’ David Glovin and David Voreacos
report.  Attorney Robert W. Stein, of Huntingdon Valley,
Pennsylvania, was one of two men who admitted last week that he
schemed to eliminate competition by allocating bids at public
auctions by the state’s municipalities.  Stein was a 40 percent owner of Crusader Servicing Corp.
and Royal Tax Lien Services, said Colm F. Connolly, a lawyer for
the two companies. Royal Bank, a unit of  Royal Bancshares of
Pennsylvania Inc. , owns 60 percent of the Jenkintown,
Pennsylvania-based companies, according to filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  “Both entities have been cooperating with the
government,” Connolly, of Philadelphia-based Morgan Lewis &
Bockius LLP, said Feb. 27 in an interview. He said Stein was
“effectively terminated” as president of the two companies in
November 2010.  Court papers from Stein’s Feb. 23 guilty plea in Newark,
New Jersey, don’t identify his companies, saying only that he
was president of Pennsylvania corporations -- identified as
Company 1 and a successor, Company 2 -- that bought liens.  David M. Farber, of Cherry Hill, New Jersey, also pleaded
guilty. Stein and Farber are cooperating in a U.S. Justice
Department antitrust probe, prosecutors say.  They are among five men who have pleaded guilty in New
Jersey since August. Stein’s lawyer, Paul Zoubek, didn’t return
calls seeking comment on the cases. Farber’s attorney, Michael
Mustokoff, declined to comment. At least three people have
pleaded guilty to similar charges in Maryland.  Stein, Farber and others agreed not to bid against one
another at auctions, prosecutors said. That rewarded their firms
with higher interest on liens they bought while forcing property
owners to pay more to retire their tax debts, prosecutors said.  Marc Sanders, a spokesman for Narbeth, Pennsylvania-based
Royal Bank, declined to comment.  The cases are U.S. v. Stein and U.S. v. Farber, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  For more, click here.  Goodwin Procter Hires Ex-U.S. Attorney for White-Collar Practice  Goodwin Procter LLP (1176L) , the Boston-based law firm, hired
William J. Harrington, a Manhattan federal prosecutor, for its
expanding white-collar crime practice.  Harrington, 38, was an assistant U.S. attorney in the
criminal division of the Southern District of New York. He
assisted in the conviction of investment adviser  Kenneth I.
Starr , and the bribery conviction of former New York State
Senator Carl Kruger, Goodwin said in a statement.  Harrington also served as the criminal health-care fraud
coordinator under U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in the Southern
District.  He will join Goodwin’s New York office as a member of its
white-collar crime and government investigations practice.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  On the Docket  South African Court to Rule March 9 on Wal-Mart’s Massmart Deal  South Africa’s Competition Appeal Court will announce its
decision March 9 on a challenge by the government and labor
leaders against  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s purchase of  Massmart
Holdings Ltd. (MSM)   Judge Dennis Davis, the president of the court, will hand
down the ruling at its chambers in Cape Town, Lerato Motaung,
the court registrar, said by phone from Pretoria yesterday.  Three government ministries and a retail workers’ union are
contesting a decision May 31 by South Africa’s Competition
Tribunal that authorized Wal-Mart to  buy  a 51 percent stake in
Johannesburg-based Massmart, South Africa’s biggest food and
general-goods wholesaler. Approval was subject to the companies
promising to refrain from firing employees for two years and
setting up a fund to assist local suppliers and manufacturers.  The appeal contends that the regulatory hearings were
procedurally flawed and that the tribunal failed to take account
of the takeover’s potentially negative economic effects.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, paid 16.5 billion
rand ($2.19 billion) in mid-2011 for the stake in Massmart. The
Bentonville, Arkansas-based company said on June 26 that it
would create 15,000 jobs in South Africa in five years and spend
about 60 billion rand more on food or fast-moving consumer goods
in the period, most of which would go to local suppliers.  The case is South Africa Commercial, Catering and Allied
Workers Union v Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Massmart Holdings Ltd.,
111/CAC/Jul11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  