-- Singapore Oil Trader Kuo to Ship Fuel Oil Cargo From Iran
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2012-02-29T12:37:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/singapore-oil-trader-kuo-to-ship-fuel-oil-cargo-from-iran-1-.html
Kuo Oil Ltd., the  Singapore  trader
that the U.S. censured last month for trading with  Iran , has
booked a  fuel-oil  shipment from the Persian Gulf nation for
loading in March, shipping data show.  Closely held Kuo Oil hired the Mire to load 80,000 tons
from Bandar Mahshahr on March 12 for delivery to Singapore,
according to four shipbrokers, including a unit of  Clarkson Plc (CKN) ,
the world’s largest. The Liberian-flagged vessel is anchored in
the northern  Gulf of Oman  near the  Strait of Hormuz , according
to transmissions captured by AISLive on Bloomberg.  Fuel oil is a residual product of refining often used for
power generation and as shipping fuel. The fixture is
provisional and subject to change or cancellation. A Kuo Oil
official declined to comment when contacted by telephone.  Iran is seeking to boost oil sales in  Asia  before a
European Union embargo scheduled to start July 1. The country is
the second-largest crude producer after  Saudi Arabia  in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and pumped an
average 3.55 million barrels a day in January, according to a
Bloomberg survey of producers and analysts.  Kuo Oil was sanctioned Jan. 12 for providing “over $25
million in refined petroleum to Iran between late 2010 and early
2011,” the U.S. State Department said in a  statement .  Foreign Ministry  While Singapore’s foreign ministry declined to comment on
the sanctions against Kuo, it said it “was not in a position to
enforce the laws of other countries,” according to a Jan. 13
statement. “We expect that given the importance of the U.S. in
the world economy, companies with dealings with countries
subject to unilateral U.S. sanctions will take notice of this
case and make their own calculations in the light of their own
commercial interests.”  Iran exported 59 percent of its crude to  China ,  Japan ,
 India  and  South Korea  in the first half of 2011, based on the
latest available data from the U.S.  Energy Department .  The following table shows tankers scheduled to load crude
and oil products from Iran reported so far this month, according
to shipbroker reports and data compiled by Bloomberg. Volumes
are in thousand tons. Some bookings are provisional:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  