-- SJM in Advanced Talks for New Casino as Market Share Slips
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-01T11:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/sjm-in-advanced-talks-for-new-casino-as-2011-profit-climbs-49-.html
SJM Holdings Ltd. (880) ,  Asia ’s biggest
casino company, said it’s in advanced talks with the  Macau 
government to build a new casino as it faces market share
declines in the world’s largest gambling hub.  SJM, facing rising competition in Macau, yesterday said its
share of the Macau gambling market fell to 29 percent in 2011
from 31.3 percent a year earlier. Net income for 2011 climbed 49
percent as tourists from mainland China stoked gambling revenue,
the company said in a statement to Hong Kong’s stock exchange.  SJM, founded by billionaire  Stanley Ho , has lost market
share as rivals open new  luxury resorts  in Macau, where casino
revenue jumped 35 percent to 25 billion patacas ($3.1 billion)
in January and has tripled in the past four years. The company
and rivals  Sands China Ltd. (1928) ,  MGM China Holdings Ltd. (2282)  and  Melco
Crown Entertainment Ltd. (6883)  have benefited from a rise in tourism
to the former Portuguese colony.  “My concern remains with the falling market share,” said
 Kenny Tang , Hong Kong-based general manager of AMTD Financial
Planning Ltd.  SJM “is still in talks and there’s no concrete
plan. It will take several years before it can build a new
casino.”  Shares Decline  SJM fell 2.2 percent today at the close in Hong Kong
trading. The stock has climbed 25 percent this year, compared
with a 16 percent gain in Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index.  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  and  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) 
benefit from the increasing popularity of the city’s Cotai
strip, where they have integrated resorts. Galaxy opened a new
casino in Macau last year and Sands will have one opening this
year which gives them greater growth potential than SJM, Tang
said.  New Casinos  SJM has applied to develop a 70,468-square-meter integrated
resort in Cotai which will include mass market and VIP gaming,
lodging, dining and entertainment. The project, which will take
several years to develop, is subject to government approvals,
the company said yesterday.  Las Vegas Sands, through Hong Kong-listed unit Sands  China ,
is developing casino resorts in Macau to add to its existing
properties, the Venetian, Four Seasons and Sands.  The first phase of Sands Cotai Central, featuring three
hotels and two casinos, is on track to open in about eight
weeks, the company said on Feb. 2.  “With Sands Cotai Central set to open in March, we expect
SJM market share to further decline,” Richard Huang, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, wrote in a note
to clients today. SJM’s market share may fall to 26 percent in
2012-12, he said.  Galaxy opened Galaxy Macau resort last May which helped
almost triple its profit in the third quarter ended September.
It lifted the company’s market share to about 17 percent,
Chairman Lui Che-woo said in June.  Special Dividend  SJM, with casinos including Grand Lisboa and Ponte 16, will
pay a final dividend of 43  Hong Kong  cents a share and a special
dividend of 22 cents, compared with a final dividend of 30 cents
paid in 2011, the casino operator said. Earnings per share rose
to 95.4 cents from 66.2 cents a year earlier, while gaming
revenue gained 32 percent to HK$76 billion, the company said.  SJM’s net income climbed to HK$5.31 billion ($685 million),
matching the HK$5.31 billion average of nine analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  SJM’s VIP gambling revenue climbed 36 percent to HK$52.8
billion during the year. Revenue at Casino Grand Lisboa
increased 46 percent and profit gained 41 percent, according to
yesterday’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Wong in Shanghai at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net  