-- Slovenia’s Economy Falls Into a Recession as Exports Weaken
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-02-29T10:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/slovenia-s-economy-falls-in-recession-as-export-growth-weakens.html
Slovenia’s  economy  slid into a
recession in the last quarter of 2011 as export growth slowed
amid austerity measures by governments in  Europe  to stem the
sovereign-debt crisis.  Gross domestic product contracted 0.7 percent from the
previous quarter after shrinking a revised 0.4 in the previous
three months, the  statistics office  in Ljubljana said today on
its website. GDP fell 2.8 percent in the fourth quarter compared
with the same period in 2010 and declined 0.2 percent for the
whole of 2011. A Bloomberg  survey  of six economists had a median
estimate for a 0.9 percent drop in economic output from a year
earlier.  “The annual drop in the fourth quarter is an ugly number
and doesn’t bode well for 2012, especially for the first
quarter,” Radivoj Pregelj, an analyst at Abanka Vipa d.d., said
by phone after the report. “Final consumption was very weak,
which was also reflected in poor earnings at  Mercator (MELR)  Poslovni
Sistem d.d.”  Slovenia’s export-dependent recovery is suffering as
governments in Europe implement savings measures as mandated by
the new fiscal pact pushed by German Chancellor Angela Merkel
and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy . Economic growth will
probably be hampered by a loss-making banking industry, which is
relying on loans from the  European Central Bank  for liquidity.  Financial Industry  Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., the country’s biggest lender,
which controls more than a third of the market, reported a 239
million-euro ($322 million) loss last year. Its smaller
competitor, Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d., is also likely to
report its first loss since selling shares publicly in 2007.  Slovenia’s inflation rate in February rose to the highest
level in more than three years, advancing to 2.9 percent from
2.3 percent the previous month, the office said today in a
separate statement.  Consumer prices are within “normal” limits “since  core
inflation  is still subdued,” Pregelj said.  Mercator, the largest retail store chain in the Balkans,
reported a 22 percent drop in net income for 2011 and a net loss
for the fourth quarter.  Euro Region’s Woes  GDP of the 17-member euro currency bloc is forecast to
decline 0.3 percent this year, while the Slovenian economy is
set to drop an annual 0.1 percent, the European Commission said
in a Feb. 23 report. That compares with a 0.2 growth forecast by
the government’s economic institute.  The government of Prime Minister  Janez Jansa , which took
power on Feb. 10 after a snap vote in December, pledged to cut
spending by 800 million euros to allay investors’ concern over
public debt that has more than doubled since 2007, when the
former Yugoslav nation adopted the euro.  Since September, when the previous government of Borut Pahor was ousted, Slovenia’s credit ratings have been cut by
Moody’s Investors Service,  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s 
on a weak outlook for the banking industry and the economy amid
the debt crisis in Europe.  Slovenia is rated A2 at Moody’s, the fifth highest
investment grade and an equivalent  A+ at S&P. Fitch rates the
the country A. All three companies have a negative outlook on
the ratings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  