-- Solar Panel Prices ‘Close to Bottom,’ According to Deutsche Bank
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-02-29T12:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/solar-panel-prices-close-to-bottom-according-to-deutsche-bank.html
Solar panel prices will stop falling
after a slump last year pushed them to unprofitable levels,
forcing producers to cut output, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  “Prices are close to a bottom,”  Vishal Shah , a  New York- 
based managing director and solar analyst for the bank, said in
the western Indian city of Jaipur today. “They’ve stabilized
across the supply chain because companies are losing money.”  Prices fell 47 percent in 2011, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Excess production capacity forced producers to
lower prices, depressing margins and prompting 15 of 17 members
of the Bloomberg Large Solar Index to post quarterly losses.
Chinese companies led by  Suntech Power Holdings (STP)  Co. supply about
half of the world’s solar cells and have 45 percent of its
capacity for polysilicon, a raw material used in panels.  “Companies can’t make money by just adding new capacity
anymore,” Shah said in an interview at the Solarplaza
conference in Jaipur. “We expect significant supply reductions
in the next 12 months” for solar panels.  Polysilicon prices are set to drop further to about $20 a
kilogram because of growth in output capacity, he said. The
average spot  price  for polysilicon fell 59 percent to $29.28 a
kilogram in a year, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  China  idled almost a third of its polysilicon production in
December to support prices, while a glut in panel capacity will
cut the number of local manufacturers to 15 from more than 300
within five years, the state-run Energy Research Institute says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  