-- South Korea Industrial Output Advances on Machinery After Three-Month Skid
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-02-29T01:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/south-korea-industrial-output-advances-on-machinery-after-three-month-skid.html
South  Korea ’s industrial production
rose in January after three consecutive months of declines as
manufacturers of cars, machinery and mobile phones boosted
output on improving prospects for demand.  Output (KOIPIMOM)  increased 3.3 percent from December, when it dropped
a revised 0.7 percent, Statistics Korea said today. The median
estimate of 12 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
0.5 percent drop. Production fell 2 percent from a year earlier,
the first year-on-year decline since June 2009 and compared with
a 4.6 percent drop estimated by economists.  South Korea’s economy, which grew the least in two years in
the last quarter, may hit bottom in the first quarter before
returning to a recovery path in the second, Finance Minister
Bahk Jae Wan said last week. The  Bank of Korea  refrained from
raising  interest rates  for an eighth month on Feb. 9 to support
growth amid signs of easing inflation.  Today’s production figures and some recent purchasing-
manager reports “suggest a pick-up in activity, and help
alleviate partly the worries over the growth outlook,” said
 Frances Cheung , a senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in
 Hong Kong . “We have always been expecting an economic slowdown
in Asia, but no recession. I think the latest data support our
view.”  The won rose 0.2 percent to 1,121.80 to the  U.S. dollar  as
of 9:40 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Kospi index advanced 1 percent.  World Economy Prospects  Manufacturers’ confidence on the prospects for March rose
to a five-month high while consumer confidence rose to the
highest level in three months in February, according to the
latest central bank reports.  “The world economy is expected to show a modest recovery
and  South Korea ’s export growth will likely recover although
it’s difficult to predict a big improvement,” the  finance
ministry  and central bank said today after officials from the
two agencies met. Europe’s economy is “sluggish,” while the
U.S. is showing signs of improvement and demand will be
maintained in emerging economies, the officials said.  South Korea’s leading index of economic indicators rose 0.7
percent in January from December, when it gained 0.4 percent,
today’s report said. Sales of  consumer goods  rose 0.8 percent
from December and advanced 0.9 percent from a year earlier.  Statistics Korea said in a separate statement today that
they revised the gauge system for the leading index, taking out
capital goods imports and liquidity at financial companies and
adding the international raw-material price index.  The total number of sub-indices for the leading index fell
to nine from 10 after the change. The index was revised to
better forecast business cycles and the impact of changing
global economic conditions on the local economy, Statistics
Korea said.  South Korea’s gross domestic product expanded 0.4 percent
in the fourth quarter of 2011 from the previous three months,
when it gained 0.8 percent, the central bank said on Jan. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  