-- South Korea, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar Advance in Asian World Cup Qualifying
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-02-29T21:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/south-korea-lebanon-oman-qatar-advance-in-asian-world-cup-qualifying.html
South Korea , Lebanon, Oman and  Qatar 
completed the lineup in the final group stage of Asian
qualifying for the 2014 soccer  World Cup .  Goals from Lee Dong-Gook and Lee Keun-Ho six minutes apart
in the second half led South Korea to a 2-0 win over Kuwait last
night in  Seoul  that secured the top spot in Group B. Kuwait’s
defeat also allowed Lebanon to advance as runner-up in the group
even though it lost 4-2 to United Arab Emirates.  Oman beat Thailand 2-0 in Muscat to claim the Group D
runner-up spot ahead of Frank Rijkaard’s  Saudi Arabia , which
lost 4-2 to group winner Australia. The Socceroos trailed 2-1 in
 Melbourne  before scoring three times in four minutes during the
second half. The turnaround allowed Oman to jump above Saudi
Arabia into second place.  “Our early elimination is a shock,” Saudi Arabia forward
Yasser Al Kahtani said on FIFA’s website. “Just as we were on
course to win the game and qualify, we conceded three goals in
four minutes to lose out. This was inexplicable, even if nothing
is impossible in football. It is a painful ending for us all.”  Kasola Mohammed scored in the 86th minute as Qatar tied
Group E winner  Iran  2-2 in Tehran to secure the runner-up spot.
Qatar finished one point ahead of Bahrain, which routed 10-man
Indonesia 10-0 in Manama.  Yesterday’s qualifiers joined  Australia , Iraq, Iran,  Japan ,
Jordan and Uzbekistan in  Asia ’s fourth qualifying phase, where
the teams will be split into two groups of five. The draw is
scheduled for March 9 in  Kuala Lumpur  and matches will be played
between June 3, 2012, and June 18, 2013, with the winners and
runners-up from each group earning a berth at the 2014 World Cup
in  Brazil .  The two third-place teams will enter a playoff with the
winner advancing to a home-and-away playoff for a World Cup
berth against South America’s fifth-ranked team.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  