-- Sri Lanka’s Biggest Policy Overhaul Since Civil War Risks Inflation Bump
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2012-03-01T08:20:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/sri-lanka-s-biggest-policy-overhaul-since-war-risks-price-bump.html
Sri Lanka ’s biggest overhaul of
economic policy since the end of its civil war risks a bump in
inflation while auguring increased stability by aiming to curb
the island’s trade deficit.  In less than two weeks last month, Sri Lanka let its
currency weaken to a record low by shifting toward a more freely
floating  exchange rate , raised fuel prices and boosted  interest
rates  for the first time since 2007 to damp credit growth. The
moves aim to curb an excess of imports such as oil over exports,
as Sri Lanka’s post-conflict resurgence buoys domestic demand.  “Although inflation could spike, the measures taken are
good in order to ensure longer-term economic stability,” said
Sanjeewa Fernando, an analyst at CT Smith Stockbrokers Pvt. in
Colombo. “It’s the biggest monetary and fiscal policy overhaul
since the end of the war” in 2009, he said.  Sri Lanka’s foreign reserves have fallen about 25 percent
from almost $8.1 billion in July as the  trade gap  swelled,
prompting  Standard & Poor’s  to lower the island’s sovereign
rating outlook to stable from positive yesterday.  Fitch Ratings 
said this week that the depleted reserves have increased
balance-of-payments risks.  Consumer prices  may rise 6.7 percent on average in 2012 as
a result of last month’s policy steps, according to Standard
Chartered Plc. They climbed 2.7 percent year-on-year in February,
the slowest pace in 28 months. Price pressures are expected to
build during 2012 because of “strong growth and imported
inflation,” HSBC Holdings Plc said in a note yesterday.  Currency Decline  The policy steps began with the rate actions on Feb. 3, the
scrapping of the rupee’s trading band on Feb. 9 and the increase
in energy costs from Feb. 12.  The local currency has declined 6.7 percent against the
dollar so far this year, the worst performance in the world
after  Iran ’s rial. It slid to a record-low 122.35 per dollar
yesterday. The  Colombo All-Share index  is down 9.8 percent in
2012, the most in  Asia .  Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal’s decision to raise the
reverse repurchase rate to 9 percent from 8.5 percent and the
repurchase rate to 7.5 percent from 7 percent contrasts with
cuts in nations from  Indonesia  to  Brazil , as  Europe ’s protracted
debt crisis pressures officials to shield growth.  The increases in borrowing costs, a more than 20 percent
rise in transport and electricity prices and a shift toward a
“largely floating exchange rate” make up a “bold” package of
measures, said Sajjid Chinoy, an economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in Mumbai.  ‘Unambiguously Positive’  While they will probably crimp growth and spur inflation in
the “near term,” the “reforms are unambiguously positive in
the medium term, and will likely ensure that growth is rendered
more sustainable going forward,” he said in a note.  Sri Lanka’s $50 billion economy may expand 7.1 percent in
2012, according to  Standard Chartered , less than its earlier
estimate of 7.5 percent. Gross domestic product rose an
estimated 8.3 percent last year, Cabraal has said.  The central bank said last month it aims to keep inflation
in the “mid-single digit levels” in the second half of 2012.
Credit granted by commercial banks to private businesses jumped
by 34.5 percent in December from a year earlier,
“substantially” exceeding projections, it said.  February’s steps will help bring down the trade and
current-account deficits, Cabraal said on Feb. 14. The
 International Monetary Fund  welcomed the move toward greater
exchange rate flexibility in a Feb. 9 e-mail. It has disbursed
$1.75 billion from a $2.6 billion program to boost the Sri
Lankan central bank’s reserves.  IMF Funds  The policy measures are likely to help the island qualify
for the balance of the IMF funds, Sarath Amunugama, minister for
international monetary cooperation, said by telephone today. The
lender’s program is a “confidence-building measure that will
help boost investor perception and the island’s foreign-exchange
reserves,” he said.  Sri Lanka’s trade deficit exceeded $1 billion in both
November and December. Its reserves fell to three months
coverage of current-account payments at the end of 2011, from
roughly four months in the middle of last year, S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in  Colombo  at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  