-- Standard Chartered Plans to Hire After Record 2011 Profit
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-02-29T16:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/standard-chartered-profit-climbs-to-record-for-eighth-full-year.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K.’s
second-largest bank by market value, said it plans to hire as
many as 2,600 employees after posting its eighth annual record
earnings on growth in corporate and consumer banking.  Net income  rose to $4.85 billion in 2011 from $4.33 billion
a year earlier, the London-based bank said today in a statement.
That compared with the $4.75 billion median estimate of 26
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Standard Chartered, which focuses on faster-growing markets
in Asia, the  Middle East  and Africa, had a return on equity of
12.2 percent last year, surpassing the profitability of its four
biggest U.K. competitors. The lender plans to hire this year
after adding 1,600 people in 2011, as banks including  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc eliminate
jobs.  “Standard Chartered is likely to report another record
year of profit unless the  exchange rate  worsens a lot,” Steven Chan, an analyst at Citic Securities International Co., said by
telephone. “Last year’s weak geographies, India and  Korea , are
also likely to improve.”  Standard Chartered is on track to post “double-digit”
growth in revenue and earnings on a per-share basis this year,
Chief Executive Officer  Peter Sands  said in the statement.
Return on equity may be “somewhat under our aspiration” due to
tightened regulations and low  interest rates , he said.  Stock Performance  The  stock  fell 0.3 percent to 1,617.5 pence in  London 
trading. Shares of  Standard Chartered  fell 18 percent last year
in London trading, valuing it at 1.5 times the value of its
assets. The Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index
fell 32 percent during the same period.  The bonus pool for staff has been kept “flat” at about
800 million pounds ($1.27 billion) and Sands will receive a
payout of $3.5 million, he told reporters in London today. The
full-year dividend rose 10 percent to 76 cents a share. The
number of employees climbed to 86,865 and the company would
increase this by 2 percent to 3 percent, Sands said.  The lender trimmed its full-year revenue growth forecast in
December because of Asian currencies’ depreciation against the
 U.S. dollar . Income will grow “at just below a double-digit
rate” because of Asian currencies’ 1 percent to 5 percent
depreciation since early November, the bank said on Dec. 8.  Rate Rises  Operating revenue in the wholesale and consumer business in
 India  fell 11 percent to $1.8 billion in 2011 as business
confidence was hurt by the  Reserve Bank  of India increasing
interest rates 13 times in two years, the company said.  In Korea, revenue rose 1 percent to $1.72 billion after the
bank’s efforts to introduce performance-related pay sparked a
10-week labor strike that closed branches. The bank took a $206
million charge relating to an early retirement program for
employees and the unit known as SC First Bank was renamed
Standard Chartered, the company said.  Hong Kong revenue gained 22 percent to about $3 billion,
lifted by credit cards and personal loans, the bank said.  Standard Chartered, whose origins date to 19th century
British colonial rule in  Africa  and India, earns more than three
quarters of its profit from corporate banking. Operating profit
from the division led by Michael Rees rose 9 percent.  Profit from consumer banking operations, which are run by
Steve Bertamini and account for less than a quarter of the
total, climbed 26 percent last year, the lender said today.  ‘Avalanche’  Sands told parliamentarians in December that a U.K. bank
levy and additional regulations would cost the lender more than
$500 million a year. The bank faces an “avalanche” of
regulation, he said at the time. Standard Chartered paid a $165
million charge for the U.K. bank levy last year, the bank said
today.  Standard Chartered and HSBC, which earn most of their
profit in Asia, are the only two of Britain’s five biggest banks
to report increases in profit for 2011.  HSBC, Europe’s largest bank by market value, said  full-year
profit  rose 27 percent, boosted by an accounting gain on the
revaluation of its own debt. The bank recorded a ROE of 10.9
percent for the period, while Barclays Plc’s was 6.9 percent.
Standard Chartered may not reach its goal for a “mid teens”
ROE this year, Sands said.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s biggest mortgage
lender, and  RBS (RBS) , Britain’s biggest government-owned lender,
reported wider losses after compensating customers improperly
sold insurance. Barclays posted a 16 percent drop in profit.  Salaries rose by about 5 percent across the bank’s markets,
though the lender retains a “tight grip” on costs, Sands said.
Overall employee costs rose 15 percent, the bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net 
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  