-- Stanford’s Lawyers, Prosecutors to Make Final Arguments to Jury in Houston
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-02-29T14:32:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/stanford-s-lawyers-prosecutors-to-make-final-arguments-to-jury-in-houston.html
R. Allen Stanford’s defense lawyers,
and the U.S. prosecutors who say he masterminded a
$7 billion international fraud scheme, are set to make their
final attempts to sway a federal court jury.  Closing arguments in the five-week trial are scheduled to
be delivered today at the U.S. courthouse in Houston.  Stanford’s attorneys told U.S. District Judge David Hittner
on Feb. 27 that their client wouldn’t testify in his defense,
resting their case and settling an issue Hittner raised
repeatedly over several days as the evidentiary portion of the
trial neared its end.  Each side has been allotted two hours for summations. For
prosecutors it’s a final chance to claim they proved beyond a
reasonable doubt that the financier lied to investors about what
he was doing with money they gave his Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank Ltd. in exchange for its certificates of
deposit.  For Stanford’s lawyers, it is a last chance to sow doubt in
the mind of one or more of the dozen jurors whose unanimous
verdict is required for a conviction.  Stanford, 61, faces 14 criminal counts, including charges
of mail fraud and  wire fraud  that carry maximum sentences of 20
years in prison, obstruction of a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission investigation, and conspiring to commit each of those
crimes.  Flight Risk  Stanford, indicted in June 2009 and jailed since then as a
flight risk, has maintained he is innocent.  At trial, defense attorney Robert Scardino and co-counsel
Ali Fazel contended their client held sufficient assets to honor
his investor obligations and that any wrongdoing was the fault
of Stanford’s finance chief and one-time Baylor University
roommate, James M. Davis.  Davis, who pleaded guilty to fraud and to conspiracy to
commit fraud in August 2009, testified for the prosecution for
five days. The trial began on Jan. 23.  The case is  United States  v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  