-- Standard Parking Rises on Agreement to Buy Central Parking: Chicago Mover
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-02-29T22:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/standard-parking-rises-on-agreement-to-buy-central-parking-chicago-mover.html
Standard Parking Corp. (STAN) , which
manages 1.2 million parking spaces across  North America , rose
2.9 percent after agreeing to buy  Central Parking Corp. (3306180Q)  from
private-equity interests to almost double its holdings.  The shares rose 51 cents to $18.05 in New York trading.
They have gained 1 percent this year, less than the 8.6 percent
increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The  deal  is valued at about $348 million, Chicago-based
Standard Parking said today. That includes $111 million in
stock, based on the value of trading in the past 20 days, as
well as $27 million in cash and $210 million of assumed debt,
Standard Parking said in a statement. Central Parking is owned
by affiliates of private-equity firm Kohlberg & Co., Lubert-
Adler Partners LP and Versa Capital Management LLC.  The combined company will have a “dominant position” in
the U.S. parking industry, said Nathan Brochmann, an analyst at
Chicago-based William Blair & Co.  “This really is a size-and-scale business,” Brochmann
said in a telephone interview. “Over the course of time,
there’s going to be a lot more upside to this potential deal.”  A telephone message for Rick West, a spokesman for Central
Parking, wasn’t immediately returned. James Kohlberg, chairman
of Kohlberg & Co.; Ira Lubert, co-founder of Lubert-Adler; and
Gregory Segall, chief executive officer of Versa Capital, also
didn’t immediately return calls.  Cost Savings  “We believe this is a transformative transaction that will
expand our location footprint” and “provide significant cost
synergies,” James Wilhelm, Standard Parking’s chief executive
officer, said on a conference call today.  The combined company, to be based in  Chicago , will realize
about $20 million in annual savings beginning in the second year
after the acquisition, Standard Parking said. The workforce of
more than 25,000 probably will be reduced by less than 2
percent, and the deal will add to per-share earnings within
three years, the company said.  The transaction is scheduled for completion in the third
quarter. Kohlberg and its partners bought Nashville, Tennessee-
based Central Parking in 2007.  Parking in Standard’s hometown has lured other investment
firms as well. In 2008, the city of Chicago leased its parking-
meter system to a Morgan Stanley-led partnership for $1.15
billion. The agreement runs for 75 years.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Abu Dhabi Investment Authority and Allianz
Capital Partners may have earnings of $9.58 billion before
interest, taxes and depreciation, according to documents in 2010
related to a $500 million private note sale by their Chicago
Parking Meters LLC venture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  