-- Starbucks to Sell Seattle’s Best at Kmart, Chevron Locations
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-02-29T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/starbucks-to-sell-seattle-s-best-at-kmart-chevron-locations.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s largest
coffee-shop operator, will begin selling its Seattle’s Best
coffee brand at Kmart stores and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  gas stations as
the company expands beyond its namesake products.  Kmart, owned by  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based  Sears
Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , will begin selling Seattle’s Best packaged
coffee in the U.S. in March, Chris Bruzzo, the brand’s chief
marketing officer, said in an interview. All of Kmart’s
approximately 1,300 stores will have it by the end of this year,
he said.  Starbucks is putting the brand into other U.S. retailers,
such as Chevron’s 550 ExtraMile convenience stores and some  Yum!
Brands Inc (YUM) .’s Taco Bell locations. Subway and  Burger King
Holdings Inc. (BKC)  restaurants also sell the coffee.  “We’re feeling confident that we can build this into a
billion-dollar brand,” Bruzzo said.  Seattle ’s Best is going to
places where it has “traditionally been hard to find great
coffee,” he said.  Starbucks, which doesn’t publicly release revenue for
Seattle’s Best, is trying to boost sales with items other than
its traditional coffee. In November, the Seattle-based company
 bought  juicemaker Evolution Fresh Inc. for $30 million.
Starbucks also is expanding sales of beer and wine in some of
its cafes.  Seattle’s Best is sold in about 20,000 grocery and mass
retail stores and is becoming more important to Starbucks’
grocery business, Bruzzo said. Revenue for the company’s
consumer packaged-coffee segment rose 22 percent to $1.06
billion in the year ended Oct. 2.  Chevron won’t sell Seattle’s Best in all of its stores,
said Ian Noble, district sales manager at the  San Ramon ,
California-based company.  “We would not be able to execute,” he said. ExtraMile is
Chevron’s higher-end gas station brand with stores in
California, Oregon and Washington.  A 20-ounce cup of coffee will cost $1.56 at Chevron,
compared with $1.86 at Seattle’s Best retail stores. The same
size coffee at Starbucks is $1.95.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  