-- Stockton Voting Mediation Before Bankruptcy May Be Followed in California
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-02-29T07:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/stockton-voting-mediation-before-bankruptcy-may-be-followed-in-california.html
Stockton, California (3654MF) , might inspire
other cities to avoid Chapter 9 filings by bringing in a
mediator to untangle municipal finances without going to court,
according to a lawyer who helped write the new law it’s
invoking.  Stockton, an agricultural and shipping hub of 292,000
people about 80 miles (130 kilometers) east of San Francisco,
yesterday became the first city to use a state law approved last
year to avert municipal bankruptcies by appointing an outsider
to resolve disputes among creditors and unions.  Other cities in  California , dealing with new fiscal
stresses after the state eliminated redevelopment agencies, are
watching closely, said Karol K. Denniston, a Los Angeles-based
lawyer and arbitrator who helped write the statute.  “It’s a harbinger for a lot of other municipalities,”
Denniston, a managing partner at Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck
LLP, said in a telephone interview. “The focus on the muni
market in California is due to the pressure on a lot of the
municipalities, due to the winding-up of the redevelopment
agencies.”  Most states have refused to authorize their municipalities
to file for bankruptcy, which means lawmakers would need to
change state law before a city or county could seek court
protection from creditors, according to a report by the  American
Bankruptcy Institute .  Official Permission  Of the 24 that passed laws allowing Chapter 9 filings, at
least four require permission from state officials, while others
impose various restrictions, according to the 2010 report. In
 Iowa , for example, a city or county can only file bankruptcy if
it accumulated “involuntary debt.”  “States are increasingly moving in the direction of
regulating Chapter 9,” Sam Gerdano, director of the institute,
said in an interview Feb. 27.  After Stockton, the most logical candidate in California
for a municipal bankruptcy is Hercules, a city of 24,000 in the
San Francisco Bay Area, which inherited debt from a now-defunct
redevelopment agency, Denniston said.  Other such cities may be pushed toward bankruptcy if, like
Hercules, the redevelopment projects aren’t generating
sufficient revenue to repay bondholders, she said.  The law dissolving redevelopment agencies contains
provisions to stave off bankruptcies by allowing cities to sell
properties in redevelopment zones and for host counties to bail
out cities with additional property-tax revenue, said  Chris McKenzie , executive director of the League of California Cities.  Holes in the Statute  “That said, nothing would surprise me given how many holes
there are in the statute,” McKenzie said by telephone.  On Feb. 2, the day after California dissolved more than 400
redevelopment agencies,  Standard & Poor’s  cut the rating on the
 Hercules Redevelopment Agency (44837MF) ’s housing tax allocation bonds,
noting the dispute between the city and  Ambac Assurance Corp. (ABKFQ) 
over whether the insurer was liable for $2.4 million in payments
to bondholders.  If Hercules loses its lawsuit with Ambac, the city would
“not have sufficient funds to continue normal operations” for
the remainder of the fiscal year and might seek  bankruptcy
protection , Municipal Market Advisors noted in a Feb. 6 report.  The Hercules city manager, Steve Duran, said in a telephone
interview Feb. 24 that he’s “optimistic” the city can resolve
its dispute with Ambac and not need court protection.  “Bankruptcy is the absolute worst option until it becomes
the only option,” Duran said. “That’s not my quote. That’s
from the Orrick people in Vallejo.”  2008 Bankruptcy  Vallejo, a city of 120,000 in the  San Francisco  Bay Area,
was represented by Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP as it
filed for bankruptcy in 2008. It was the biggest California city
and at the time, the second-biggest local government after
Orange County to file for protection from creditors. Vallejo,
which emerged from court supervision in 2011, spent $10.6
million on legal fees from the bankruptcy while cutting more
than 40 percent of its police and fire budgets.  The Vallejo example spurred Assemblyman Bob Wieckowski, a
Fremont Democrat and bankruptcy attorney, to work on a bill that
would discourage Chapter 9 filings by bringing in arbitrators,
he recalled in a telephone interview.  The  bill , signed into law by Governor  Jerry Brown  last
year, requires cities to either consult an outside mediator or
declare a fiscal emergency before seeking bankruptcy.  ‘Litigation Fever’  “Stockton would really benefit from having their
bondholders and employee groups and creditors in a meeting where
they can discuss their issues candidly,” Wieckowski said Feb.
27. “Everybody gets litigation fever. We should leave the
litigators at the door.”  Like California, Pennsylvania’s law requires cities to try
to work out their differences with creditors before filing
bankruptcy, said Neal Colton, with the law firm of  Cozen
O’Connor (1206L) . In November, Colton was among a team of lawyers who
succeeded in getting Harrisburg, home to Pennsylvania’s capital,
thrown out of bankruptcy by arguing the city council violated
state law when it filed the case.  Harrisburg and similar-sized municipalities in
 Pennsylvania , known as Class Three cities under the state law,
cannot put themselves into bankruptcy. Only a state-appointed
receiver has that power, said attorney Kenneth W. Lee, who was
also on the team that won dismissal of Harrisburg’s Chapter 9
filing.  Larger and smaller cities must negotiate with creditors
first, Colton said.  Elected officials are unwilling to file bankruptcy because
of the negative political implications of voting for such a
move, bankruptcy attorney Ben Logan, with the law firm of
 O’Melveny & Myers LLP (1227L) , said in an interview yesterday.  “It is a very difficult political decision,” Logan said.  Should Stockton succeed in avoiding bankruptcy, other
cities may follow its example, Logan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  