-- Stockton, California, Council Moves Closer to Bankruptcy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-02-29T22:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/stockton-california-moves-closer-to-bankruptcy-on-council-vote.html
Stockton (3654MF) ,  California , moved closer
to bankruptcy with a City Council vote to default on some bonds
and begin a process that’s required under state law prior to
seeking court protection.  The council voted 6-1 yesterday to enter mediation with its
biggest creditors, such as bond insurers and labor unions, to
seek concessions aimed at helping the community of 292,000 avoid
becoming the largest U.S. city by population to enter
bankruptcy.  “We still are working to try to avoid the ultimate
bankruptcy,” Mayor Ann Johnston said near the end of an almost
six-hour City Council meeting yesterday. “If the players don’t
come together and agree to a fix that everybody can live with,
we’re in deep trouble because then we have no more choices
left.”  Stockton , a farming center about 55 miles (90 kilometers)
south of  Sacramento , has fought to avert a court filing. Rising
employment costs such as retiree health benefits as well as debt
tied to economic growth have consumed larger amounts of the
city’s general fund, while the local economy hasn’t recovered
from the recession. Twice since 2010, Stockton has declared
fiscal emergencies.  “There are no other alternatives,” City Manager Bob Deis
said. More service reductions, pay cuts for city employees and
tax increases aren’t viable, he said.  New State Law  The vote invokes a  law  signed by Governor  Jerry Brown  in
October that requires cities to either rely on an outside
mediator to help resolve disputes with creditors and unions, or
to declare a fiscal emergency prior to seeking bankruptcy. After
60 days without a resolution through mediation, or if the city
runs out of money, it can then seek court protection.  The law was sought by public-employee unions after Vallejo,
a city of 120,000 in the  San Francisco  Bay Area, went bankrupt
in 2008 and asked a court to help it void labor contracts.  The council also voted to skip $2 million of payments on
$320 million of bonds sold by the city and its public-finance
and redevelopment agencies. Deis has said most of the debt is
covered by insurance. Insurers agree to pay investors if the
city can’t or won’t.  “In the event that debt service payments by the city are
interrupted, National will ensure that its policyholders will
receive all of their principal and interest payments on time and
in full,”  Kevin Brown , a spokesman for National Public Finance
Guarantee Corp., said before the council meeting. The company,
along with Assured Guaranty Corp. and Ambac Assurance Corp.,
backs the debt.  ‘Given Significantly’  “Labor has already given, and given significantly,”  Marc Levinson  of the Sacramento-based  law firm  Orrick, Herrington &
Sutcliffe LLP, which represents the city, said in a presentation
to the council.  “The bond holders have not, they’ve not been asked to,”
said Levinson, who assisted Vallejo in its bankruptcy. “If the
council passes its resolution tonight, they’re going to, on
March 1. They will start feeling the pain that labor in this
city and the citizens have felt for a long time.”  The council voted to cut its fiscal 2012 budget by $15
million to deal with what Deis called bookkeeping and accounting
errors. The fiscal year ends June 30. The deficit made the
default and mediation necessary to prevent insolvency before
that point.  Revenue Bond  A Stockton parking-revenue bond sold in June 2004 and
maturing in September 2014 traded today at an average yield of
5.31 percent, about 32 basis points lower than yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  The council agreed to extend its fiscal emergency
declaration, suspend payouts to retiring employees and to enlist
an independent investigator to identify those responsible for
the city’s financial issues.  “I would think that they are material enough to our
situation that red lights would have popped on,” Deis said when
asked why auditors hadn’t reported the bookkeeping errors.  Soaring home prices spurred a real estate boom in Stockton
in the past decade, with single-family  home construction 
tripling to 7,500 units a year from 2003 to 2005, compared with
most of the 1990s, according to Robert Denk, senior economist at
the  National Association of Home Builders  in  Washington .
Homebuilding collapsed in 2009, with fewer than 1,000 completed,
Denk said.  Foreclosure Rate  By last year, Stockton had the second-highest foreclosure
rate in the U.S. among cities with a population of more than
200,000, trailing only  Las Vegas , according to RealtyTrac Inc.
in  Irvine , California. In Stockton’s San Joaquin County,
assessed property values tumbled almost 11 percent in fiscal
2010, followed by 3.9 percent in 2011 and 4 percent in the
current year, according to the county’s website.  Stockton had the nation’s eighth-highest violent crime rate
in 2010 and the eighth-highest  unemployment rate  in December, at
15.9 percent, almost double the national average. Stockton was
named the “most miserable city” in the U.S. twice in the past
four years by Forbes.com, out of the 200 largest metropolitan
statistical areas.  While the city has reduced spending by $60 million in the
past two years, including cutting a quarter of the roughly 425-
member police force, Deis said he expects a shortfall of as much
as $20 million in fiscal 2013. That amount might balloon to $39
million if union concessions are blocked by the courts, he said.  Earlier Decisions  Deis blamed part of the financial troubles on previous City
Council decisions to boost retiree health-care benefits without
determining how to pay for them. As a result, the city has an
unfunded liability of $417 million for retiree health services.  “Normally, when you make entitlements like that, you fund
it like an entitlement that lasts a lifetime,” Deis said. “We
set aside nothing for these programs. That’s why we are having
the problems we are having.”  Standard & Poor’s , which last week lowered Stockton to BB,
two steps below investment grade, cut its rating again today by
another eight levels, to CC, with a negative outlook.  Fitch Ratings  on Feb. 27 downgraded $252.4 million in
Stockton water-revenue bonds to BBB-, its lowest investment
grade, from AA-. Moody’s Investors Service cut Stockton to two
levels below investment level last week, to Ba2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  