-- Sweden Goes From Best to Worst in Scandinavia as Trade Reliance Kills Jobs
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-03-01T14:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/sweden-goes-from-best-to-worst-in-scandinavia-as-trade-reliance-kills-jobs.html
Sweden’s reliance on exports to
 Europe  has turned Scandinavia’s erstwhile strongest economy into
the region’s laggard as job losses undermine demand.  “It will get worse before it gets better,” said  Andreas Jonsson , an economist at Nordea Bank AB in Stockholm. “We will
see rising unemployment during most of 2012.” Jonsson said
there is a risk the largest Nordic economy will contract this
year, versus the central bank’s forecast for 0.7 percent growth.  A recession would follow 3.9 percent expansion in 2011,
when Sweden outgrew neighboring  Norway  and  Denmark . Now, Swedish
reliance on trade with Europe, where it sends 70 percent of
exports, has left the nation more vulnerable to the euro
region’s debt crisis.  Gross domestic product  shrank 1.1 percent
in the fourth quarter, the statistics office said yesterday. The
central bank estimates unemployment will rise to 7.7 percent
this year and stay there until 2014.  Central bank Governor Stefan Ingves said Feb. 15  Sweden  is
entering a period of “much lower growth,” prompting him to cut
rates for a second time in as many meetings. Those cuts probably
won’t be enough to prevent a recession, Jonsson said.  “We’re seeing a big need for downward revisions to the
Riksbank’s macro forecasts,” he said. “It also opens up for
yet another rate cut in April.”  Sweden Vs Norway  Swedish output contracted last quarter as the economies of
Denmark and Norway grew. All three nations carry AAA grades at
the three main ratings companies. Sweden’s krona lost 0.2
percent against the Norwegian krone, declining for a fourth day,
to trade at 0.8427 as of 3:14 p.m. in  Stockholm . That’s the
lowest rate since October last year.  Sweden is more vulnerable to a slowdown in exports because
the country “is heavily dependent on cyclically sensitive
investment and intermediate goods,” said Tina Mortensen, an
economist at Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. in  London , in a note.
“But private consumption is also set to decelerate markedly.”  Sweden’s central bank, the Riksbank, has lowered its
 benchmark interest rate  twice since December, reducing it to 1.5
percent last month. Policy makers indicated then they will keep
rates unchanged over the next year.  “The GDP-level is now almost 2 percentage points lower
than what the Riksbank had in mind when they put forward their
latest forecasts,” said  Roger Josefsson , chief economist at
Danske Bank A/S in Stockholm, in an e-mail reply to questions.  ‘Huge Gap’  “This creates a huge gap in estimates of resource
utilization and implies that the Riksbank is in for another
downward revision to their inflation forecast,” he said. Danske
Bank sees a quarter point cut at the Riksbank’s April meeting.  Finance Minister Anders Borg signaled yesterday the
government may be willing to add stimulus should the economy
continue to decline.  “The development at the end of last year was much weaker
than we predicted,” Borg said. “We’re monitoring the
development carefully and are ready to act if things turn out
much weaker than we thought.”  Borg signaled last month that the government will probably
cut its economic growth forecast to about 0.5 percent this year,
from a 1.3 percent estimate in August. At the Riksbank, the
board is split on how much easing is needed to save the economy
from a recession. Two of the bank’s six board members support
deeper cuts.  ‘Too Optimistic’  Swedish manufacturing expanded at a slower pace last month
than in January as sub-indexes for orders and production fell,
according to Swedbank AB’s purchasing managers’ index published
today.  “The forecasts for the euro area and thus demand for
Swedish exports are too optimistic,” Riksbank Deputy Governor
Lars E. O. Svensson said at the central bank’s February meeting,
according to minutes published yesterday. “The forecast for
Sweden is also too optimistic.”  Svensson argued for a 0.5 percentage point cut to 1.25
percent and for further easing to 0.75 percent by the end of the
third quarter.  “The probability of further rate cuts has risen,” said
Anders Brunstedt, an analyst at Svenska Handelsbanken AB in
Stockholm. Handelsbanken may have to cut its forecast of
unchanged rates to as low as 1 percent, he said.  Still, concerns about Europe’s fate have eased this year,
as leaders agreed on a second bailout package for  Greece  and the
 European Central Bank  offered unlimited three-year loans to ease
credit concerns.  Swedish retail sales unexpectedly rose following the
central bank’s rate cuts and after stock market gains boosted
incomes. The  trade surplus  was more than four times bigger than
estimated in January, improving from 16-month low in December.  “What happens further down the road is very uncertain,”
Jonsson said. “We’re seeing some bright spots. But we do see a
weak development during the first half and, most significantly,
we’ll see a weak development in the labor market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Stockholm at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  