-- Swiss Life Sees Challenging Market Conditions as Second-Half Profit Drops
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-02-29T16:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/swiss-life-sees-challenging-market-after-second-half-profit-declines-30-.html
Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN) , Switzerland’s
biggest life insurer, expects market conditions to remain
“challenging” after second-half profit declined by 30 percent.  Net income  fell to 202 million Swiss francs ($226 million),
from 289 million francs a year earlier, according to Bloomberg
calculations that were confirmed by the Zurich-based company.
That missed the 209 million-franc median estimate of three
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The insurer proposed an
unchanged dividend of 4.50 francs per share.  “The dividend is in our view a strong sign that economic
solvency remains adequate despite low interest rates,” Stefan Schuermann, an analyst at  Vontobel Holding AG (VONN) , wrote in a note
today. “The result appears a bit light on the profit side.”  Swiss Life plans to make more savings after reducing annual
costs by 404 million francs since 2009 and cutting 520 jobs in
 Switzerland . The insurer is also trying to reduce its dependency
on investment income and compensate for a decline in revenue
from selling life policies, known as wrappers, to wealthy
clients of Swiss private banks.  Swiss Life climbed 2.2 percent to 104.30 francs, the
highest since Nov. 4, at the close of Zurich trading, bringing
this year’s gain to 21 percent. That compares with the 14
percent increase in the 28-company Bloomberg Europe 500
Insurance Index.  Positive Investment Case  “At the current valuation, Swiss Life results only had to
avoid being disastrous to reaffirm a positive investment case
and, in our opinion, these figures have achieved that goal,”
 Tim Dawson , an analyst at Helvea SA, wrote in a report.
“Profits will hold up far better than is implied by the share
price and the capital position remains acceptable.”  Swiss Life,  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN)  and other insurers
may post slower premium growth this year as the economy
deteriorates, according to the Swiss Insurance Association. The
company is targeting a return on equity of 10 percent to 12
percent by this year and a new business margin of 2.2 percent.  “Going forward, we do not expect much tailwind from the
financial markets,” Chief Executive Officer Bruno Pfister said
in the statement. “We can expect persistently low interest
rates and an extremely challenging financial market
environment.”  AWD Holding AG, the German financial services broker that
Swiss Life bought in 2007, reported a 10 percent increase in
operating profit to 54 million euros. That result was affected
by 47 million euros in provisions for legal cases.  AWD founder Carsten Maschmeyer said on Dec. 7 that he will
step down from Swiss Life’s board of directors and cut his stake
in the insurer to less than 3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net ;
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  