-- U.K. Push for Renewable Energy to Prevent Electric Power Crisis
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2012-02-29T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/u-k-push-for-renewable-energy-to-prevent-electric-power-crisis.html
Britain’s policies encouraging
 renewable-energy  use will prevent the country from suffering an
electricity crisis leading to blackouts toward the end of the
decade, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said.  The U.K. will build more than 30 gigawatts of power 
generation capacity by the end of 2016, two-thirds of it in 
solar, wind and biomass and the rest largely fired by natural 
gas, according to forecasts from the research company. That 
will help the nation cope with closing 19 gigawatts of fossil-
fuel and nuclear power stations over this decade.  The findings suggest Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
government may avoid power shortages that blighted the U.K. 
during World War II and the 1970s, requiring industry to scale 
back operations and leaving millions of homes in the dark.  “The U.K. is embarking on an historic shift in its
electricity supply, and commentators and critics have
continually raised the specter of the lights going out once
again,” said Michael Liebreich, chief executive officer of New
Energy Finance. “Our analysis shows that, barring unforeseen
circumstances, it is not going to happen.”  U.K. utilities need to spend as much as 200 billion pounds
($320 billion) to replace aging power plants and upgrade the
electricity grid by 2020, according to the regulator Ofgem.
About a third of Britain’s fossil-fuel power stations are due to
close in the next three years to meet European Union rules on
emissions, including plants run by  RWE AG (RWE) , EON AG and SSE Plc.  Dash for Gas  RWE and Electricite de France SA are due to switch on new
gas-fueled power stations this year, and in total 11 gigawatts 
of gas plants may be built through 2016, according to New Energy 
Finance. The research company predicts 2 gigawatts of biomass 
plants, about 11 gigawatts of wind and 8 gigawatts of solar 
power will be installed in the five years through 2016.  While the intermittent nature of wind and solar power means
the new capacity won’t fully offset the smaller capacity of
fossil-fuel and nuclear plants that are being retired, a decline
in domestic usage and industrial output following the recession
means U.K. power demand may not return to the peak levels of
2005 within the next two decades, New Energy Finance said.  Britain’s oldest reactor at Oldbury, southwest  England ,
closes today. Other atomic plants may shut in the next decade
as they reach the end of their working lives.  Cameron on Feb. 17 signed a civilian nuclear cooperation
agreement with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , paving the way
for the construction of a new generation of power stations in
the U.K. The British premier took office saying he wanted his
government to be the “greenest” ever.  EDF, in partnership with  Centrica Plc (CNA) , is among six
utilities planning to build atomic stations in Britain. While
EDF plans to have its first new plant up and running in 2018,
that timeframe may slip, said Brian Potskowski, a power analyst
at New Energy Finance.  “The long lead times for building new nuclear plants and
uncertainty over how they will be subsidized means that the
recent agreement between the U.K. and  France  on nuclear
cooperation has little impact on whether the lights stay on in
the 2015 to 2020 timeframe,” Potkowski said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  