-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Cleveland District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-02-29T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-cleveland-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fourth District--  Cleveland .  FOURTH DISTRICT - CLEVELAND  The economy in the Fourth District grew at a moderate pace
during the past six weeks. Manufacturers reported that business
conditions have improved. Activity in residential and
nonresidential construction picked up slightly. Comments by
retailers about January sales were mixed, while auto sales
dipped along seasonal trends. Activity in shale gas drilling and
production expanded. Freight transport volume trended higher.
And the demand for business and consumer credit improved
slightly.  Our contacts indicated that hiring by manufacturers and energy
producers has increased, though the recruitment of high-skilled
workers remains difficult. Reports from staffing-firm
representatives tended toward the negative. Two of our contacts
noted a slight decline in the number of permanent  job openings ,
while others observed a small drop in the number of placements.
Wage pressures were largely contained. Price increases were
mainly limited to metals and to materials and equipment used by
energy producers and freight carriers.  Manufacturing. New orders and production at District factories
were generally stable or moderately higher during the past six
weeks. A few manufacturers told us that growth was being
tempered by lessening demand from European customers. The
majority of our contacts saw a moderate improvement in output
compared to year-ago levels. Manufacturers are cautious in their
outlook and anticipate modest gains in demand. Most steel
producers and service centers reported that shipping volume was
trending slightly higher. Demand is being driven by the oil and
gas, transportation, and industrial equipment industries. Steel
representatives are cautiously optimistic about shipments during
the second quarter of 2012, and they expect the positive growth
trend to continue. District auto production showed a substantial
rise during January on a month-over-month and year-over-year
basis. Increases were attributed, in part, to the abatement of
supply chain issues.  Capacity utilization remains below normal for the majority of
our contacts, with little change expected in the near term. A
few manufacturers said that they have been building inventories
to meet approaching seasonal demand; otherwise, inventories were
balanced with orders. Nearly half of our contacts reported that
their capital budgets for 2012 will be higher than in 2011. A
slight rise in raw material prices was noted--especially for
metals, with increases being passed through to customers. New
hiring by manufacturers has become more widespread, though the
average number of hires per company is fairly low. Those adding
to payrolls found it difficult to recruit professional and high-
skilled production workers. Wage pressures are contained.  Construction. The uptick we saw in single-family  home
construction  toward the end of last year has abated somewhat.
Nonetheless, builders reported that January sales were above
year-ago levels and traffic and inquiries have picked up. Sales
contracts were mainly in the move-up price-point categories.
Builders’ outlook for single-family construction can best be
described as uncertain. In contrast, activity in multi-family
construction and the conversion of existing properties to rental
units is expected to be strong. One of our contacts noted a
significant upturn in remodeling and maintenance. Little
movement was seen in the list prices or discounting of new homes.
A few builders commented that they would like to increase their
spec inventory, but they are unable to obtain financing.
Employment and wages were stable.  Activity in nonresidential construction for small to medium-size
contractors has improved during the past few weeks. Inquiries
have shown a modest increase, and backlogs are starting to grow.
Construction contracts were primarily with industrial and retail
customers. One contact described pockets of significant activity
in large commercial construction projects across the District,
noting particular strength in northeast Ohio. The outlook by
small to medium-size builders has brightened since our last
report. One contractor observed that while business is slowly
returning to pre-2008 levels, profit margins are still very
tight compared with this point in past recoveries. Other than
rising prices for steel and drywall, the cost of building
materials was steady. We heard two reports about  project
financing  being easier to obtain. Payrolls were little changed,
but they are expected to rise slightly in the near future.  Consumer Spending . Reports on January retail sales were mixed.
According to several of our contacts, the warm winter weather is
negatively impacting purchases of seasonal merchandise. However,
products used outdoors, such as sporting goods, are selling
better than expected. Sales for the first quarter of 2012 are
generally expected to improve over prior-year levels, mainly in
the low- to mid-single digits. Looking at vendor pricing,
reports were also mixed. Retailers told us that lower costs
attributable to declining cotton prices were offset by a rise in
overseas labor costs. Retailers are satisfied with their
inventories except for cold-weather apparel, which is higher
than desired. Capital budgets for 2012 will be slightly greater
than in 2011 for a majority of our contacts. Outlays will be
used mainly for technology enhancements, remodeling, and new
store construction. Payrolls at existing stores were stable.  Auto dealers reported a slowdown in new-vehicle sales during
January that followed normal seasonal trends. On a year-over-
year basis, sales were somewhat higher. A few dealers noted that
their inventories are now on the high side but are manageable;
others said that inventories are light. The outlook for 2012 was
generally optimistic. However, several of our contacts were
uncertain about whether or not the sales increases seen during
2011 would be repeated this year. Purchases of used vehicles
showed a modest improvement, but inventories were low and prices
elevated. On the financing side,  interest rates  remain
competitive, and at the same time it is difficult to arrange
financing for customers with low credit scores. Auto dealers
looking to hire reported that it is not easy to find qualified
candidates, especially sales representatives and service
technicians.  Banking. Demand for business credit was described as either
stable or slightly higher. Any drop-off was attributed to
seasonal factors. Requests are being driven by commercial real
estate, including spec building, and healthcare. On the consumer
side, most of our contacts said that installment loan activity
is flat, although auto lending (direct and indirect) continued
to show strength. A few bankers reported a decline in the use of
credit cards or home equity lines of credit during January. Some
stabilization in interest rates for business and consumer credit
was observed. In the residential mortgage market, real estate
appraisals remain on the conservative side, and a majority of
applicants are looking to refinance. No changes were made to
loan application standards. Delinquencies were steady or
declined across loan categories. Overall core deposits grew,
with continued runoff from CDs into more liquid assets. Payrolls
were stable, and little hiring is expected in the near term.  Energy. Conventional oil and natural gas drilling and production
were generally flat since our last report, with little change
expected in the upcoming weeks. Our contacts attributed these
conditions to eroding natural  gas prices  and the regulatory
environment. Well-head prices for oil were mainly steady. We
heard two reports of energy companies redeploying drilling
resources from dry gas to the wet gas areas of the Marcellus
shale in  Pennsylvania  and  West Virginia . The  Ohio  Department of
Natural Resources has issued 32 Utica shale drilling permits
since January 1 and 39 Utica wells are currently being drilled
in Ohio. The outlook for coal production during 2012 is similar
to 2011 levels. However, output may decline due to lessening
demand from electric  utility companies  and offshore markets.
Spot prices for metallurgical and steam coals continued to
decline. Almost all of our contacts reported upward pressure on
the cost of production equipment and materials. Energy payrolls
are trending higher, especially in shale gas. A few small oil
and gas producers are experiencing wage pressures brought on by
competition from large firms engaged in shale gas exploration
and production.  Transportation. Freight transport volume has been trending
higher during the past few weeks, and for the month of January
it was above year-ago levels. Strong demand was seen from
automotive, food, and shale gas producers. Our contacts expect
volume to grow at a moderate pace during 2012. We continued to
hear numerous reports about rising prices for parts,  diesel fuel ,
and other materials. Most of the cost increases were recovered
via fuel surcharges and rate adjustments when contracts came due.
Capital outlays reached targeted levels for 2011. Almost all of
our contacts expect to increase their capital budgets during
2012 over prior year amounts for fleet expansion, replacing
aging equipment, and infrastructure improvements. One executive
noted that his  capital budget  for 2012 will be at a pre-
recession level. Operators reported hiring for driver
replacement or adding capacity, although recruiting qualified
drivers is difficult. Some wage pressure exists due to a
tightening of the driver pool. 