-- U.S.’s Single Goal Goes Down in Soccer History as First Win Against Italy
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-02-29T23:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/u-s-s-single-goal-goes-down-in-soccer-history-as-first-win-against-italy.html
Clint Dempsey  got the only goal as
the U.S. logged its first win in 11 meetings stretching back to
1934 against four-time world soccer champion Italy.  Dempsey collected a pass from Jozy Altidore 10 minutes
after halftime and fired a shot into the center of the goal at
Stadio Luigi Ferraris in Genoa in last night’s exhibition match.
It was eighth-ranked Italy’s second straight defeat at home and
its first loss in Genoa since 1924.  “It’s a confidence builder,” Dempsey told ESPN in a
televised interview. “The goal is to qualify for the World Cup,
so it’s important to come to a place like this and play big
teams on their own soil and get results.”  The U.S., which is ranked 31st by  World Cup  organizer FIFA,
lost 7-1 in its first match against Italy, on May 27, 1934, at
the World Cup in Rome. The Americans are undefeated this year
and have won four straight games under Jurgen Klinsmann, who was
appointed manager in July. In all games under the former Germany
player and coach, the U.S. has won five, lost four and tied one.  Sebastian Giovinco forced U.S. goalkeeper  Tim Howard  into a
save with Italy’s first realistic chance to score before the
home team’s Alessandro Matri put the ball into the net in the
25th minute, only for it to be canceled by an offside call.  Dempsey, who plays for Fulham in  England ’s Premier League,
came close for the U.S. 12 minutes later, forcing Italy
goalkeeper Gianluigi Buffon to bat away his free kick from about
25 yards (22 meters).  The U.S. next hosts Scotland in Jacksonville,  Florida , on
May 26 before taking on record five-time world champion  Brazil 
four days later in Landover, Maryland. Scotland tied 1-1 in
Slovenia last night, while Brazil beat Bosnia 2-1 two days ago.  The U.S. begins qualification for the 2014 World Cup in
Brazil on June 8 in Tampa, Florida, against Antigua and Barbuda.
Jamaica and Guatemala are also in the group.  The game was part of Italy’s preparation for the European
Championship, which Poland and Ukraine will host from June 8 to
July 1.  Italy  will play world champion  Spain , the Republic of
Ireland and Croatia in its opening group stage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  