-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Minneapolis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-02-29T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-minneapolis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Ninth District-- Minneapolis.  NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS  The Ninth District economy grew at a firm pace since the last
report. Strength was noted in  consumer spending , professional
services firms, commercial and residential real estate and
construction, manufacturing, energy and mining, and agriculture.
Lack of snowfall reduced tourism activity. Some more firms
announced plans to expand hiring, while wage increases were
modest. Overall prices were level, but some increases were noted.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Consumer spending was solid. Same-store sales at a Minnesota-
based retailer increased about 4 percent in January compared
with a year ago. A Minneapolis area mall manager reported
relatively strong traffic during January. A Minnesota-based
restaurant and bar chain reported that same-store sales were off
to a good start in January and February. A fast food chain
recently announced plans to add more restaurants in  Minnesota . A
representative of an auto dealers association in Montana noted
that recent vehicle sales were higher than a year ago and that
availability of new and used cars has improved. Repair shops in
eastern Montana were very busy repairing oil-drilling-related
vehicles. However, due to the surprisingly mild winter, many
District auto repair shops reported a decrease in business
because of fewer snow- and ice-related accidents.  Tourism was down due to low snowfall in much of the District.
The lack of snow in Minnesota and Wisconsin has stymied
snowmobiling and cross-country skiing. Snowmobile dealerships
reported a sharp drop in sales from a year ago. However, a
Minnesota travel company reported strong demand for both
corporate and leisure travel in January; interest in traveling
to  Europe  and other overseas destinations was up. Another travel
agency noted that recent corporate travel sales were up almost
25 percent compared with a year ago.  Construction and Real Estate  The unusually warm weather aided construction activity. The
value of commercial building permits in the  Sioux Falls , S.D.,
area was up in January from January 2011. A major Minnesota-
based commercial real estate company expects more construction
of retail and warehouse structures. Residential construction
increased from a year ago. The value of residential building
permits increased significantly in the Sioux Falls area in
January. The number of single-family building permits increased
in Minnesota and  North Dakota  in December 2011, compared with
December 2010. Multifamily construction in the  Minneapolis  area
is in a “boom,” according to a major real estate firm.  Commercial real estate market activity increased. A large
warehouse property manager noted increased transaction activity
over the past few months. A major Minnesota-based broker noted
increased leasing of  office space . Home sales in January were up
from the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area,
and the inventory of homes for sale continued at low levels.
Several brokers noted that the low end of the market appeared to
shift to a “sellers’ market.” The multifamily market continued
to strengthen in the fourth quarter of 2011 as rents increased
and vacancy rates decreased in many markets, according to a real
estate research firm.  Services  Activity at professional business services firms increased at a
solid pace since the last report. Of the 33 firms that responded
to a mid-February ad hoc survey, 63 percent saw revenues
increase over the past three months, while only 16 percent
experienced revenue drops. Over the next three months, 59
percent expect increased revenues and only 6 percent expect
sales to drop. A human resources consulting firm noted increased
activity with “more proposals and opportunities.” An
architectural firm noted increased activity and demand, but said
the competition remains “fierce.”  Manufacturing  District manufacturing expanded at a firm pace. A January survey
of  purchasing managers  by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.)
found that manufacturing activity increased in Minnesota and the
Dakotas. An electrical equipment producer is opening a new
facility in Minnesota. An aerospace firm announced plans to
locate a plant in  Montana . A producer of automotive cooling
systems is expanding operations in  South Dakota .  Energy and Mining  Activity in the energy and mining sectors continued at strong
levels. District oil and gas exploration increased since the
last report. In Montana, construction began on what will be the
state’s largest wind energy development. In addition, regulators
in Montana approved an $86 million wind energy project. Iron
mines in northern Minnesota were operating at near capacity. A
Canadian mining company discovered large iron and titanium
deposits near Duluth, Minn., but any mining operations are
several years away.  Agriculture  Agriculture remained strong. January prices received by farmers
for corn and cattle increased. Prices declined somewhat for
wheat, soybeans, hogs, dairy products, eggs and poultry, but all
prices were above their January 2011 levels. According to
preliminary results from the Minneapolis Fed’s fourth-quarter
(January) survey of agricultural credit conditions, 67 percent
of District lenders reported that farm incomes increased in the
previous three months; 10 percent reported decreases. However,
drought conditions spread in Minnesota, the Dakotas and District
portions of  Wisconsin . Low snowfall combined with erratic
temperatures were having an uncertain effect on the District’s
winter wheat crop.  Employment, Wages and Prices  Some more firms announced plans to expand hiring. An airplane
manufacturer announced plans for a new facility in northwestern
Wisconsin that will initially create 300 jobs. A  marketing
company  plans to expand its operations in Minnesota and
eventually hire 200 more workers. Also in Minnesota, a clothing
supplier will add 150 employees at a new facility, and a boat
manufacturer expects to rehire former employees laid off during
the recession.  However, some employment cutbacks were announced. A Minnesota-
based food retailer will cut about 200 jobs at the company’s
headquarters. A bank will lay off almost 70 employees at an
auto-debt-collection unit in South Dakota.  Wage increases were modest. Workers at two food operations
recently agreed to a new contract that includes some wage
increases over a five-year period. Bank directors recently
reported that business contacts expected wage increases between
2 percent and 3 percent in 2012 compared with 2011 after
remaining level over the past couple of years. Larger increases
were noted in the oil-drilling area of western North Dakota and
eastern Montana, particularly for welders who were in short
supply.  Overall prices were level, but some increases were noted.
Minnesota gasoline prices were up 15 cents per gallon since
early January. Bank directors noted that health insurance costs
were up between 6 percent and 8 percent over a year ago, with
some reports of steeper increases. 