-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Philadelphia District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-02-29T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-philadelphia-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Third District-- Philadelphia.  THIRD DISTRICT - PHILADELPHIA  Overall, business activity in the Third District has grown at a
somewhat faster pace compared with the previous  Beige Book . The
overall sentiment has been more positive, although the very mild
winter weather may have played a part. Since the last Beige Book,
manufacturing activity has grown further with more broad sectors
contributing to the gain. Retail sales maintained steady year-
over-year increases. Motor vehicle dealers experienced
unseasonably strong sales growth overall; however, results
varied by state. Third District banks have reported slight
growth in lending and continued improvement of credit quality
since the last Beige Book. New  home construction  started the
year strong with the warm weather assist. Commercial real estate
contacts continued to report steadily improving markets for
industrial, retail, and office space. Overall, service-sector
firms reported continued growth. Price pressures have remained
contained for most sectors, with little change from the last
Beige Book.  Most firms have expressed a brighter outlook since the last
Beige Book. Manufacturers anticipate rising shipments and orders
during the next six months. Retailers expect slightly stronger
sales, and auto dealers are increasingly confident that the
current surge in sales will carry into the spring selling season.
Banking, real estate, and service-sector firms continue to plan
for slow growth in 2012. In general, contacts seemed to prefer
talking about recent positive trends rather than reiterating
their uncertainty. However, their concerns continue to include
the ongoing slow housing recovery,  Europe ’s economic problems,
and federal budget indecisions.  Manufacturing. Since the last Beige Book, Third District
manufacturers have reported further increases in new orders and
shipments. Gains were widespread among the makers of food
products, lumber and wood products, primary metals, instruments,
and electronic equipment. A supplier to the broad industrial
market stated that demand accelerated over the past several
months and that the production capacity of many manufacturing
clients was picking up. Contacts also reported that work was
returning from overseas and that foundries were reaching
capacity. The primary metals sector reported strong demand from
the automotive and heavy equipment sectors. Among the makers of
instruments and of electrical machinery, some contacts indicated
that the level of demand seen recently has been the highest
since near the beginning of the recession. Even the housing
sector contributed to slight upticks in demand, according to
contacts from two firms that produce housing-related products.  About nine out of 10 Third District manufacturers expect
business conditions to improve or stay the same during the next
six months; most expect their business to increase. This
optimism permeates nearly every broad manufacturing sector.
Increasingly, our contacts cite signs of stronger economic
growth, although some of the expected increase reflects seasonal
trends. Risks from Europe’s problems and constraints from a weak
housing market continued to add uncertainty to the outlook,
according to some contacts. Expectations of  capital spending  and
future hiring have strengthened since the last Beige Book.  Retail. Third District retailers reported little drop-off from
the  holiday shopping season  -- maintaining steady year-over-year
sales increases. One industry contact reported better than
normal sales for January; another reported perceptible, gradual
improvement. All contacts conceded that the mild winter weather
may have increased activity, although sales of winter clothes
and gear have suffered. Price competition remains tough and
shoppers are still very budget conscious, according to some
contacts. Overall, retail contacts were a bit more optimistic
but remain cautious.  Auto sales strengthened further in January and February,
especially for Pennsylvania dealers. New Jersey dealers had a
stronger December, which may have pulled sales forward from
January; this was in part due to financial-sector workers
spending their year-end bonuses. The outlook for auto sales
remains very strong. Industry contacts indicated that some
larger dealers have begun hiring, mostly in sales. More hiring
is expected if robust sales continue into the spring season.  Finance. Overall, loan volumes were flat to up slightly in the
Third District since the previous Beige Book. The issuance of
home equity lines and home mortgages, including refinancing,
increased the most, although some contacts were unwilling to
write 30-year mortgages at the current low rates. Commercial
real estate and C&I lending remained flat. Banking contacts
reported low demand for some lines and early paydowns in others.
Overall,  credit quality  continued to improve. One financial
contact reported that the pace of loans going into delinquency
has slowed, although the rate being resolved by foreclosure or
workout remained flat.  Real Estate and Construction. Residential builders reported
strong activity and sales in January and early February. One
Pennsylvania builder said it was the strongest January in
several years. A New Jersey builder closed deals that had been
initiated in November and then dragged through December; the
builder also reports a good backlog of sales. The mild winter
weather helped with production and may have boosted traffic.
Contacts cited a more active resale market as a positive trend
but expressed concern over higher gas prices and increased
compliance costs in the mortgage market. A residential broker
also reported a stronger January than last year. Builders
reported hiring some sales staff. The outlook among builders and
brokers is modestly more positive. However, a broker cautioned
that increased sales activity will first spur the shadow
inventory to emerge and add to the active inventory, before the
active inventory can begin to shrink.  Brokers and managers of nonresidential real estate have reported
generally improving conditions for industrial, retail, and
office space since the last Beige Book. The industrial market
remains strong, and gains are spreading to the weaker South
Jersey market area. High-end and low-end retail markets are
especially strong. Mid-value retail, including grocery stores,
which often locate in community shopping centers and street
retail properties, is struggling, producing higher vacancies.
Office market contacts reported that signs of pent-up demand are
emerging that will lead to positive net absorption by year’s end.
The overall outlook for nonresidential real estate has improved
since the last Beige Book, but growth will remain modest.  Services. Third District service-sector firms generally have
reported further growth since the last Beige Book. A logistics
firm reported very strong year-over-year results through the
first six weeks of 2012. Despite some expressed concerns, the
contact is hopeful that this strong pace is maintained or
improves when “freight season” begins in March. Though somewhat
skeptical of the sudden surge in confidence and market
enthusiasm, one contact quipped, “I won’t fight the tide!”
Advertising dollars are expected to build through the year with
the Olympics and the presidential election. One staffing firm
reported a surprising dip in new orders compared with last year
and a shift to short-term orders that are not indicative of
growth. The majority of service-sector firms anticipate growth
will steadily improve in 2012.  Prices and Wages. Price levels have remained contained since the
previous Beige Book. Auto dealers and freight shippers still
command favorable pricing power. Price pressures are mixed among
manufacturing firms, with some firms unable to pass their higher
costs along. Retailers and homebuilders continue to report tight
margins. Wages are reported to be flat, and some firms have
substituted lower cost temporary contract workers to reduce
their overall wage bill.  House prices  are expected to fall
further; however, nonresidential rents are stabilizing and
concessions are scarcer. 