-- U.S. Business Activity Improves More Than Forecast: Economy
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-02-29T21:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/u-s-economy-expands-at-3-annual-pace-greater-than-economists-estimated.html
Companies took in more orders and
stepped up production in February, a sign demand will sustain
the U.S. expansion after a fourth-quarter pickup.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its  business barometer  climbed to a 10-month high of 64 from
60.2 in January. Readings above 50 signal expansion and the
figure exceeded all forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. The
Commerce Department raised its growth estimate for the final
three months of 2011, to 3 percent from 2.8 percent.  Income gains in the second half of 2011 were stronger than
previously reported, which may bolster household purchases that
make up 70 percent of the economy. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled today to Congress that recent signs of
strength won’t change the central bank’s view that low rates are
necessary through 2014.  “We’re continuing to see moderate economic expansion
driven by an improvement in the labor market,” said Conrad
DeQuadros, a senior economist at RDQ Economics LLC in New York.
“Even with growth at 3 percent, the Fed remains concerned about
the outlook with the unemployment rate high, and that’s the
driver of their highly accommodative monetary policy.”  Stocks fell as Bernanke gave no indication of more
quantitative easing to stimulate the world’s largest economy.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.5 percent to 1,365.66
at the close in  New York .  While describing “positive developments” in the labor
market, Bernanke said during the first day of his semi-annual
monetary policy report that “the job market remains far from
normal.”  Bernanke on Labor Market  “At present, with the unemployment rate elevated and the
inflation outlook subdued, the committee judges that sustaining
a highly accommodative stance for monetary policy is consistent
with promoting both objectives” of the Fed for stable prices
and maximum employment, Bernanke said today in prepared
testimony to the House Financial Services Committee.  At the same time, he gave no signal that more policy easing
is under consideration. Recent data, including today’s, shows
the economy is picking up.  Economists projected the Chicago group’s gauge to rise to
61, and forecasts ranged from 58.3 to 63.  The employment measure rose in February to the highest
level since May 1984, suggesting factories are boosting payrolls
as production and orders increase. The ISM-Chicago’s production
gauge increased to the highest since April, while new orders
climbed to an 11-month high.  Capital Spending  “The manufacturing sector is doing very well right now,”
said  Mark Vitner , a senior economist at  Wells Fargo Securities
LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “Motor vehicle output is
pretty solid and we’ve seen some strength in  capital spending .”  The gain in gross domestic product in the final three
months of 2011 was the biggest since the second quarter of 2010.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for no change from the
previously reported increase.  Consumer spending  grew at a 2.1 percent annual rate, little
changed from the 2 percent initial estimate and reflecting a
pickup in demand for services. Purchases added 1.5 percentage
points to growth, the most in a year.  Job growth is bolstering spending as incomes strengthen.
After-tax incomes adjusted for inflation increased at a 1.4
percent annual rate in the final three months of 2011, more than
the previously reported 0.8 percent gain.  Wages, Salaries  In the third quarter, incomes climbed 0.7 percent compared
with a 1.9 percent slump that was initially reported. Wages and
salaries from July through September rose $107.2 billion, up
from the $24.8 billion gain initially reported.  This helped boost the savings rate to 4.5 percent from a
previously reported 3.7 percent. In the third quarter, the rate
was 4.6 percent.  “The consumer may well be buying back into the economy,
and if that happens, this economy will take off,”  Andrew Liveris , president and chief executive officer of Midland,
Michigan-based  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , said in an interview yesterday.
“As you get better economic data, confidence builds.”  Inventories  contributed  the largest boost to growth in the
final three months of 2011. Stockpiles added 1.88 percentage
points to GDP. Final sales, or GDP minus inventories, rose 1.1
percent.  Imports of goods and services were less than initially
reported, subtracting less from fourth-quarter GDP.  Corporate Spending  Business investment was revised higher. Corporate spending
on structures fell at a 2.6 percent rate, compared with a 7.2
percent drop initially reported. Business spending on equipment
and software rose at 4.8 percent annual rate last quarter.
Recent data indicate it may be strengthening.  Factory  output  rose 0.7 percent in January after a 1.5
percent surge in December, marking the best two-month
performance since July-August 2009, Fed data showed earlier this
month. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of new orders
to manufacturers  rose  last month to the highest level since
April.  Employers added 243,000 workers in January, the most in
nine months, and the  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.3 percent,
Labor Department data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  