-- U.S. Seeks Repeal of Soviet-Era Trade Bar to Aid Farmers
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-02-29T20:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/u-s-seeks-repeal-of-soviet-era-trade-bar-to-aid-farmers-1-.html
The Obama administration is pressing
Congress to throw out a Soviet-era law to restrict trade with
 Russia , making a plea on behalf of U.S. farmers and
manufacturers.  The U.S. will seek to repeal the law “as soon as
possible” to give American exporters the same benefits as their
overseas competitors, U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  told
the House Ways and Means Committee today.  The legislation that was passed in 1974, known as the
Jackson-Vanik amendment, barred favorable U.S. trade with the
 Soviet Union  to punish the nation for blocking emigration by
Jewish citizens. Annual waivers have been allowed, and widely
used, since 1993, two years after the Communist government
collapsed.  “We ought to lift it,” Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said yesterday in testimony to the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee. “Failing to lift it will put our farmers and
manufacturers and our workers at a disadvantage.”  Russia is now poised to join the  World Trade Organization 
in May or June, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said this month.
President  Barack Obama  has said he supports Russia becoming a
member of the international trade arbiter, which would allow
reduced tariffs and greater transparency.  U.S. producers won’t benefit from lower trade barriers as
long as Jackson-Vanik remains in effect, Randi Levinas, the
executive director of the U.S.-Russia Business Council, with
members such as  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , and
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  said in an interview. The U.S. wouldn’t gain
intellectual property protection and adoption of food safety
regulations on products from Russia, she said.  WTO Violation  While waivers have worked for almost two decades, Russia’s
joining the Geneva-based WTO would put the U.S. in violation of
the trade arbiter’s rules because Russia wouldn’t get the
certainty that trade accords provide, Joshua Meltzer, a fellow
at the Brookings Institution in Washington specializing in
global economy and development, said in an interview. The U.S.
wouldn’t be able to complain about any Russian trade violations
at the WTO, he said.  “We are ready to bring Russia into the rules-based system
in a way that gives us more enforcement tools to enable enhanced
 market access  and a level playing field for U.S. exporters,”
Kirk told lawmakers.  Human-Rights Record  Members of Congress including Representatives Chris Smith,
a New Jersey Republican, and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Florida
Republican, question repealing the law and easing trade with
Russia, citing its human-rights record, including a crackdown on
journalists and concerns of fraud in recent elections.  Lawmakers also are wary of Russia’s role, with  China , in
blocking United Nations Security Council resolutions seeking
change in  Syria  as President Bashar al-Assad’s loyalists use
tanks and artillery to crush a rebellion. The UN estimated more
than 5,400 Syrians died last year as Assad cracked down on
protests that began in March.  Senator  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s No. 2
Democrat, told reporters yesterday Russia’s attitude toward
Syria would “definitely” slow debate on overturning the
Jackson-Vanik amendment.  “A great deal depends on what happens in Syria and what
happens with the Russian vote at the  United Nations ,” Durbin
said.  Trade Deficit  The U.S. had a $19.7 billion trade deficit with Russia in
2010, according to the U.S. Trade Representative’s office. Trade
between the nations has increased about sevenfold since the U.S.
began granting the waivers, according to a report by Bloomberg
Government.  Normalizing trade with Russia “is a vote to create
American jobs,” Clinton told lawmakers yesterday.  Increased trade with Russia could help progress toward
Obama’s goal of doubling U.S. exports to $3.14 trillion by 2015,
from $1.57 trillion in 2009.  “Not one thing” is required from the U.S. to reap the
benefits of the trade agreement, Kirk said. “It gives us
protection we don’t have now.”  The House Ways and Means Committee hasn’t scheduled action
on the law, according to Jim Billimoria, the panel’s spokesman.
 Michael Steel , a spokesman for Speaker of the House John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, declined to comment on the
speaker’s intentions for the proposal.  Boehner’s Issues  In an Oct. 25 speech, Boehner expressed concerns about
“significant outstanding commercial issues that must be
addressed,” without elaboration.  Under terms of its WTO agreement, Russia would gradually
cut its average tariff ceiling with the U.S. for manufactured
goods to 7.3 percent from 9.5 percent. Duties on farm products
would drop to 10.8 percent from 13.2 percent. On average, the
tariff cap on Russian goods would fall to 7.8 percent from 10
percent now, according to the WTO.  Tariffs on dairy products would fall to 14.9 percent from
19.8 percent, automobiles would be cut to 12 percent from 15.5
percent and tariffs on cereals would decline to 10 percent from
15.1 percent.  Beef, Pork, Poultry  Foreign beef, pork and poultry entering Russia’s market
would face lower tariffs, while higher duties would be applied
to products exceeding quotas, under the WTO agreement. The
longest period for implementation is eight years for poultry,
followed by seven years for cars, helicopters and civil
aircraft.  U.S. exports to Russia may more than double in five years,
to $19 billion from $9 billion in 2010, under WTO membership,
according to a November report from the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in  Washington .  The  U.S. Chamber of Commerce , the nation’s largest business
group, is joining the U.S.-Russia Business Council in lobbying
lawmakers to repeal the Jackson-Vanik amendment as a way to
eliminate a competitive disadvantage.  “We have a very complicated relationship with Russia,”
said  Christopher Wenk , senior director for international policy
at the Washington-based group. “The U.S. and U.S. exporters
will be on the outside looking in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  