-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: New York District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-02-29T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-new-york-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Second District--  New York .  SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK  The Second District’s economy has expanded at a somewhat slower
pace since the last report. Labor market conditions have been
little changed in early 2012. Prices remain relatively stable,
although business contacts in various industries indicate some
increase in cost pressures. Manufacturers report further
improvement in general business conditions since the last report.
Retailers indicate mixed sales results for early 2012, though
auto dealers indicate some slowing. Tourism activity has
strengthened somewhat since the last report. Home sales have
been steady to slightly softer since the start of the year, but
the rental market has continued to improve. Commercial real
estate markets have been mixed but slightly improved, on balance.
Finance-sector bonuses are reported to be down considerably from
last year’s levels. Finally, bankers report increased loan
demand, some further tightening in credit standards for
commercial borrowers, and lower delinquency rates across all
categories of loans except home mortgages.  Consumer Spending  Retailers report mixed sales results for January and early
February. One retail contact in upstate New York reports strong
sales in January, buoyed by continued strong demand from
Canadian shoppers. By contrast, another major retail contact
indicates some slowdown in sales, with mild weather hampering
sales of winter gear in particular. Retailers report that prices
continue to be stable overall. Auto dealers in upstate New York
report that sales activity slowed in January, despite
unseasonably mild weather. Sales of new vehicles were down 3-5
percent from a year earlier, though the weakness was not quite
as pronounced as the figures suggest because January 2011 was a
particularly strong month for comparison. Inventories and
product availability have improved and are no longer much of a
factor in restraining sales. Rochester-area dealers report
continued strength in used car sales, but dealers in the Buffalo
area describe such sales as sluggish. Wholesale and retail
credit conditions remain favorable.  Consumer confidence  continued to rebound in January. Both the
Conference Board’s survey of residents of the Middle Atlantic
states (NY, NJ, PA), and Siena College’s survey of New York
State residents show confidence rising for the third straight
month and reaching its highest level since last spring. Tourism
activity has strengthened since the last report. New York City
hotels report that occupancy rates continued to run moderately
ahead of a year earlier, with room rates up modestly. After a
sluggish December, Broadway theaters report that attendance and
revenues surged more than 30 percent above year-earlier levels
in January--apparently boosted by a combination of unseasonably
mild weather and a larger number of shows now running. Business
appears to have remained relatively robust into the first half
of February.  Construction and Real Estate  The home sales market has been mixed but, on balance, slightly
softer since the last report, while the residential rental
market has continued to firm. Northern  New Jersey ’s home sales
market has stabilized but has yet to show any significant signs
of a pickup; one industry contact surmises that underlying
concern about pending foreclosures and their potential impact on
the market continues to weigh on potential buyers. Apartment
rental markets in New York City and northern New Jersey have
continued to strengthen, with effective rents (factoring in the
withdrawal of concessions) up 9-10 percent in  Manhattan  over the
past year. However, New York City’s co-op and condo market has
softened somewhat thus far in 2012: in Manhattan and  Brooklyn ,
apartment prices have held steady but sales volume has tapered
off a bit, while in the other boroughs both home prices and
volume have edged down. On a somewhat brighter note, real estate
contacts in western New York State report continued gradual
improvement in home sales activity.  Commercial real estate markets have been mixed but, on balance,
somewhat improved since the last report. Office markets in New
York City and on  Long Island  showed some further signs of
strengthening in early 2012, with vacancy rates drifting down
and asking rents increasing modestly. In contrast, northern New
Jersey’s market softened further, as vacancy rates rose to new
highs, while asking rents drifted down. In Westchester and
southwestern  Connecticut , asking rents rose, even as office
vacancy rates climbed to a multi-year high. Across upstate New
York, office markets were mostly steady, though vacancy rates
declined in the Albany area.  Other Business Activity  A major New York City employment agency specializing in office
jobs reports little change in labor market conditions thus far
in 2012; hiring activity and salaries remain flat. Uncertainty
about the economic and regulatory outlook is said to be
restraining hiring in the financial sector. An authority on  New
York City ’s securities industry indicates that Wall Street
compensation remains under downward pressure and that bonuses
are down 30 percent or more from last year’s levels.
Manufacturers across New York State report increasingly
widespread improvement in business conditions in early 2012 and
report steady growth in new orders, shipments and employment.
Nonmanufacturing contacts report a modest pickup in business
activity and employment since the last report; both were
reported to be flat during the final months of 2011.
Manufacturers continue to report modest increases in both
selling prices and prices paid. Non-manufacturing contacts also
indicate modest increases in their selling prices but more
widespread hikes in prices paid for inputs.  Financial Developments  Small to medium-sized banks report an increase in demand for all
loan categories except consumer loans, for which demand was
little changed. Bankers report a particularly widespread
increase in demand for residential mortgages. Respondents also
indicate a continued increase in demand for refinancing. Bankers’
responses suggest a tightening of credit standards for
commercial mortgages and commercial and industrial loans but no
change for the other loan categories. No banker reports an
easing of standards in any category. Respondents indicate a
decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for all
loan categories. Bankers also note decreases in average deposit
rates. Bankers’ responses point to steady delinquency rates on
home mortgage loans but decreases in delinquencies for all other
loan categories. 