-- U.S. Economy Strengthens on Gas ‘Tailwind,’ Dow CEO Says
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-02-29T21:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/u-s-economy-strengthens-on-natural-gas-tailwind-dow-ceo-says.html
The U.S. economic recovery is
gathering strength as cheaper natural gas drives business
investment and boosts exports, according to the chief executive
officer of  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the country’s largest chemicals
company.  U.S. demand is rising for autos, industrial goods and
consumer staples such as packaging,  Andrew Liveris  said
yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New
York . Dow is running its plants close to capacity because
falling  gas prices  have cut production costs, he said.  Liveris is investing $4 billion in the country over five
years to build factories that take advantage of gas prices that
are at their lowest in a decade. Cheaper gas is doubly
advantageous for U.S. chemical makers, who use it to power their
plants and as a raw material for hundreds of products such as
polyethylene plastic.  “There are tailwinds, not the least of which is because of
the energy competitiveness of this country,” Liveris said. “We
see a stronger  U.S. economy . It really started last year and is
now firmly into this year.”  U.S. gross domestic product rose 3 percent in the fourth
quarter, the most since the second quarter of 2010, the Commerce
Department said today. U.S. unemployment fell to 8.3 percent in
January, the lowest since February 2009.  Consumer confidence 
this month rose to the highest in a year, the Conference Board
 reported  yesterday.  Virtuous Cycle  Global electronics demand is slowly recovering as consumers
buy more tablet computers and smartphones, Liveris said. Demand
from  China  has improved in recent weeks, he said.  “China is back in the market, based on true demand,”
Liveris said in a separate interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness With Margaret Brennan.” “Europe remains a drag,
but I was in  Germany  last week and I’d say even Germany is
starting to look a little better.”  In the U.S., businesses are investing as they grow more
confident, creating a virtuous cycle of even greater confidence
and investment, he said.  “We may be at the beginning of that cycle,” Liveris said.
“If we see the order books strong, there could be a case to be
said that this economy will start creating jobs again.”  Dow Chemical fell 2.4 percent to $33.51 at the close in New
York.  The shares  have increased 17 percent this year.  The recent drop in prices for ethane, a gas component used
to make ethylene, is due to an unusual number of plant-
maintenance projects that cut demand, Liveris said. Ethane
prices may temporarily rise and squeeze U.S. plastics
profitability from current record levels, he said.  “This will be somewhat volatile for a quarter or two,”
Liveris said.  New supplies late this year will lead to an ethane
oversupply and prices will revert back to current levels though
2017, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  