-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Chicago District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-02-29T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-chicago-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Seventh District--  Chicago .  SEVENTH DISTRICT--CHICAGO  Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District continued to
expand at a moderate pace in January and early February. Growth
in  consumer spending  slowed, but business spending increased.
Manufacturing production increased, and construction, while
still subdued, was also up. Credit conditions improved. Price
increases slowed, while wage increases remained moderate. Prices
for corn, soybeans, wheat, hogs, and cattle moved higher, while
milk prices drifted lower.  Consumer spending. Growth in consumer spending slowed in January
and early February. Contacts indicated that activity was boosted
by clearance sales and noted an increase in consumers turning to
discount retailers. There was also some isolated improvement in
the luxury segment, with jewelers and high-end boutiques
reporting higher sales. However, the mild winter depressed sales
of apparel and other weather-related items, and contacts noted
that many retailers were running heavy promotions on unsold
winter merchandise to make room for spring inventory. Auto sales
were up in January, but down slightly in early February
reflecting in part a decline in incentives.  Business spending. Business spending increased in January and
early February. Most retailers indicated their inventories were
at comfortable levels. However, a number of auto dealers
continued to report lower than desired levels for some models.
Several manufacturers also noted that they were tightly managing
their input inventory levels to avoid being caught off-guard
were commodity prices to decline further or activity slow
substantially from the pace of the fourth quarter.  Capital
spending  increased, with reports of capacity expansions in
manufacturing and renovations of existing facilities in the
retail sector. Labor market conditions improved, although hiring
remained selective. A staffing firm reported an increase in
growth in billable hours that was largely driven by gains in
industrial and office positions. Contacts indicated that many
manufacturers were increasingly moving away from contracting
with temporary agencies to direct hiring, focusing on higher
skilled positions where attracting job candidates has remained
difficult. Long-term unemployment remained elevated. Labor
market analysts reported that it was becoming increasingly
difficult for these workers to find a job, and several contacts
indicated that they were hesitant to hire individuals who had
been out of work for an extended period of time.  Construction/real estate. Construction activity was up slightly
in January and early February. Multi-family construction
continued to be an area of strength. In contrast, single-family
construction remained weak, and homebuilders indicated that it
will likely continue to be until  home prices  stabilize from
their recent declines. Nonresidential construction continued to
trend up moderately, although a contact noted a decline in
funding for new public infrastructure. Demand for industrial
facilities increased, especially in the automotive sector as
suppliers are expanding to meet the higher pace of vehicle
production. Commercial real estate conditions continued to
improve with vacancy rates edging lower from their elevated
levels. The demand for  office space  picked up and rents
increased. In contrast, contacts continued to report excess
availability of retail space.  Manufacturing. After a strong close to 2011, manufacturing
production increased further in January and early February.
Contacts in the sector remained cautiously optimistic about 2012.
Exporters continued to benefit from advantageous terms of trade,
and contacts noted an increase in interest by foreign
manufacturers in moving production to the U.S. as well as
increasing utilization of domestic suppliers. The  auto industry 
continued to be a source of strength. Contacts expected that
auto sales in 2012 would hold near the pace seen in January,
which, while still below pre-recession levels, would mark
another year of recovery for the industry. Demand for heavy
equipment also remained strong, led by robust activity in the
energy and mining sector. An aging fleet of heavy trucks and
machinery and tightening emission standards for such equipment
were noted as reasons for the likely continued strength in
demand in 2012. Manufacturers of specialty metals also reported
solid order books and robust quoting activity. Outside of these
industries, however, activity was again weaker. Manufacturers of
household goods and building materials continued to experience
soft demand, although a few noted a small improvement since the
beginning of the year.  Banking/finance. Credit conditions were slightly improved from
the previous reporting period. Financial market volatility
declined and risk premia moved lower across a number of asset
classes. Improvements in the availability of credit were noted
for both subprime auto lending and commercial real estate,
particularly for large apartment buildings. Banking contacts
indicated that loan growth continued at a moderate pace with
demand from larger businesses being stronger than that from
small to mid-sized companies. Even though contacts thought the
economic outlook was more positive, they indicated that
borrowers and investors remain cautious, citing uncertainty
about future tax code changes and risks abroad, in particular
those emanating from  Europe . That said, concerns about Europe
were reported to have become milder in recent weeks.  Prices/costs. Cost pressures were largely unchanged in January
and early February, but the volatility of commodity prices
remained a concern for many contacts. Natural  gas prices 
remained at historic lows, while prices increased for fuel and
metals such as copper and brass.  Raw materials  surcharges
declined and lead times shortened with a few exceptions such as
carbide and some hydraulic products. Wholesale price changes
were mixed by category, but little changed on balance.  Most of the cost increases were being passed on to consumers,
but retailers reported that, overall, pricing power remained
limited. Wage pressures continued to be moderate, with most
contacts indicating that wage increases were expected to keep
pace with inflation. Contacts continued to report a shortage of
skilled manufacturing workers, and noted that increased
competition among firms had led to some upward pressure on their
wages. Agriculture. Corn, soybean, wheat, hog, and cattle prices
rose during January and early  February. Input costs for agriculture continued to increase, led
by sharply higher rental rates for cropland. The increases in
these costs have pressured farmers’ margins. In order to offset
the risks of price declines or poor harvests, farmers have been
willing to spend more on revenue insurance policies. Estimates
of corn stocks have come down and are below where they were a
year ago. Given current rates of use, the expected supply of
corn in stock just before the next harvest is around three weeks,
about as tight as last year. Cattle operations are working to
build herd sizes, even though bid prices for cattle are very
high. Contacts expected farmers to boost their  capital
expenditures  in 2012 compared with 2011. 