-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: San Francisco District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-02-29T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-san-francisco-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Twelfth District--  San Francisco   TWELFTH DISTRICT-SAN FRANCISCO  Summary  Economic activity in the Twelfth District continued to grow at a
moderate pace during the reporting period of January through
mid-February. Price increases for final goods and services were
limited, and upward wage pressures were minimal. Sales of retail
items rose on balance, and demand improved modestly for business
and consumer services. District manufacturing was mixed but
appeared to expand overall. Demand grew further for agricultural
producers but was uneven for providers of energy resources.
Activity in District housing markets remained sluggish, and
demand for nonresidential real estate stayed weak overall.
Financial institutions reported a small increase in overall loan
demand.  Wages and Prices  Upward price pressures remained very limited during the
reporting period. While price increases were reported for some
commodities, including oil and assorted construction materials
such as cement and wallboard, declines were noted for others,
such as natural gas. Price increases for most goods and services
continued to be restrained by weak final demand and stiff
competition among businesses.  Upward wage pressures were quite modest, as high levels of
unemployment and limited demand for new workers kept a lid on
compensation gains. However, contacts continued to point to
notable increases in the costs of employee benefits,
particularly in regard to defined benefit pension plans,
although they reported slight easing in upward pressures on
health benefit costs. Consistent with prior periods, upward wage
pressures remained pronounced for workers with specialized
skills in the application of  information technology  in assorted
sectors.  Retail Trade and Services  Retail sales continued to expand. Modest improvements in sales
were reported for general merchandise such as apparel and
smaller household items, with stronger gains noted for
traditional department stores than for discount chains. Demand
also improved modestly for retailers of major appliances and
furniture, but it remained lackluster for electronics. Sales
held relatively stable for grocers, although upscale chains saw
gains. For retailers of pet products, demand continued to show
robust growth.  Demand for business and consumer services rose a bit on net.
Sales grew further for providers of technology services to
businesses and consumers. Similarly, demand for professional
services such as legal services and accounting ticked up on
balance. For providers of health-care services, demand was
largely stable, with declines in inpatient admissions and
surgeries offset by higher emergency room visits. Sales activity
was reported to be largely unchanged for restaurants and other
food-service providers. Conditions in the District’s travel and
tourism industry continued to strengthen, reflecting growth in
both the business and tourism segments of the market.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing activity in the District was mixed but appeared to
expand further during the reporting period of January through
mid-February. Manufacturers of semiconductors and other
technology products reported moderate sales gains; reports of
ongoing investments in information technology equipment by firms
in most sectors suggest that demand growth is likely to continue
for these manufacturers. For makers of commercial aircraft and
parts, strong demand for narrow-body aircraft along with an
extensive order backlog kept production rates near capacity.
Activity was essentially flat for metal fabricators, and slack
demand combined with a diminishing backlog have raised concerns
that production activity may decline going forward. Capacity
utilization rates for petroleum refiners held largely stable as
robust global demand for distillate products, especially from
 Latin America , continued to offset weak domestic demand for
gasoline. Output and sales of wood products remained extremely
weak.  Agriculture and Resource-related Industries  Demand continued to improve for agricultural products and mined
metals, but it was mixed for natural resources used for energy
production. Orders and final sales grew further for most crops
and livestock products, with little or no change indicated for
the cost and availability of inputs. Mining activity in parts of
the District expanded further for a variety of precious metals
and metallic elements used for specialized industrial purposes.
Strong foreign demand for oil prompted additional increases in
extraction activity. By contrast, warm weather held down demand
for natural gas relative to seasonal norms, causing further
declines in recent and planned extraction activity.  Real Estate and Construction  Home demand in the District persisted at very low levels, and
conditions were little changed for commercial real estate. The
sales pace for new and existing homes remained quite subdued,
although scattered reports suggested modest improvement.
Inventories of available homes stayed quite high, putting
continued downward pressure on prices and construction activity.
By contrast, demand for rental space remained robust, prompting
further increases in construction of multifamily units.
Conditions in commercial real estate markets were largely
unchanged, and vacancy rates for office and industrial space
stayed high in most parts of the District. However, additional
declines in vacancy rates were noted for selected geographic
areas such as the San Francisco Bay Area and  Seattle . Contacts
also noted recent improvement in financing availability and
investor activity for well-leased office buildings. Financial
Institutions Reports from District banking and business contacts
indicated that loan demand improved a bit overall compared with
the prior reporting period. The volume of new commercial and
industrial loans edged up. The reports suggested that businesses
generally remained very cautious in regard to  capital spending 
decisions, but many continued to invest in information
technology equipment aimed at enhancing productivity. Moreover,
many businesses expect to modestly increase their capital
spending in the first half of the year compared with the second
half of last year, suggesting that growth in business loan
demand may continue. The reports also noted continued stiff
competition among lenders to extend credit to well-qualified
small and medium-sized businesses, placing further downward
pressure on loan rates and fees. Strong recent financial
performance by technology companies backed by  venture capital 
reportedly has spurred further investments of late. On the
consumer side, the reports suggested little change in loan
demand. Contacts reported slight improvement in overall credit
availability, although lending standards remained relatively
restrictive for many types of business and consumer loans. 