-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Dallas District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-02-29T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-dallas-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s eleventh District-- Dallas .  ELEVENTH DISTRICT--DALLAS  The Eleventh District economy continued to grow at a moderate
pace, and outlooks were more positive than in the last report.
Manufacturers reported increased activity. Demand for business
services was solid, and activity in transportation services rose
modestly. Housing and commercial real estate markets continued
to improve. Overall building activity remained subdued, with the
major exception being robust multifamily construction activity.
Contacts said retail sales growth was tepid and automobile sales
held steady. Financial services respondents said overall loan
demand edged up. Energy activity was strong, and agricultural
conditions improved. Employment levels were flat to up slightly.
Price and wage pressures were modest.  Prices  Contacts across most industries said prices held steady. The
exceptions were some producers of transportation equipment,
fabricated metals and food who noted slight increases in selling
prices to partially offset higher input costs. Airlines reported
higher fares, and shipping firms noted an increase in express
package and freight delivery rates.  The price of WTI was near $100 per barrel during the reporting
period. Natural gas prices fell from $3 per thousand cubic feet
in early January to near $2.50 in mid-February. Gasoline prices
rose by about 22 cents per gallon over the past six weeks, and
the price of diesel rose by 7 cents. Prices of petrochemicals
and plastics increased since the last report.  Labor Market  Employment levels were unchanged at most responding firms but
some contacts noted increases. Staffing firms continued to
report high levels of demand. Oil services and machinery firms
continued hiring at a rapid pace, and slight employment
increases came from some auto dealers, airlines, and
transportation, food and high-tech manufacturers. Shortages of
skilled workers continued to be reported, particularly for the
 energy industry . Wage pressures remained minimal, although
upward pressure for certain positions such as auto mechanics and
software engineers was reported. Several firms said annual cost-
of-living adjustments took effect at the start of the year.  Manufacturing  Overall demand for construction-related materials improved, and
several contacts noted that orders were up from year-ago levels.
Mild winter weather, robust multifamily construction and booming
oil field activity provided a boost to some producers of lumber,
stone, clay and glass. Fabricated metals manufacturers noted a
pick-up in growth since the last report, in part due to
government projects. Producers of primary metals reported a
broad-based increase in orders, and one contact said they were
adding a new manufacturing plant. Construction-related outlooks
were more positive than in the last report, and several contacts
expect a slight rebound in activity this year.  High-tech manufacturers said orders edged up moderately since
the last report. Demand for semiconductors and other electronic
products improved, largely due to a pickup in demand for
automobiles, mobile devices and cloud computing. In addition,
one respondent noted that retailers of electronic goods had been
paring down inventories in the second half of 2011 and that
orders picked up as retailers ended the inventory reduction.
Most contacts expect a gradual improvement in demand over the
next three to six months.  Emergency vehicle, automobile and aviation equipment
manufacturers said demand was flat to up since the last report,
and expectations are for strong sales growth this year. Food
producers noted an uptick in orders from the prior report,
largely due to stronger consumer demand. Overall conditions in
the paper products sector were mostly unchanged.  Petrochemicals producers reported several large planned and
unplanned outages at ethylene and polyethylene production
facilities, which led to a sharp increase in prices. Export
demand for polyethylene and caustic soda continued to trend up,
while domestic PVC demand remained weak due to low levels of
housing construction and infrastructure projects. Refiners noted
weak demand for petroleum products nationally, although
refineries on the  Gulf Coast  were seeing slightly higher margins
than some other parts of the country. Contacts noted Gulf Coast
refineries were investing heavily on repairs and maintenance
during the current spring turnaround season.  Retail Sales  Retailers said overall sales growth was tepid during the
reporting period, largely due to unseasonably warm weather.
However, sales of non-seasonal items like menswear and home
furnishings remained strong. Eleventh District sales trended
roughly in-line with the nation over the reporting period,
according to three large retailers. Inventories were at desired
levels. Contacts noted that the retail environment had improved,
and expectations are for moderate sales growth this year.  Automobile sales held steady from the prior report. The used car
market remained tight. Vehicle inventories were somewhat lighter
than normal. Expectations are for moderate increases in new car
sales this year.  Services  Demand for business services was solid and outlooks were
generally more optimistic than in the last report. Staffing
firms continued to report high levels of demand, noting more
direct hires than temporary placements. Demand for skilled
professionals, particularly IT workers was strong, while orders
from the banking sector and demand for clerical staff declined.
Legal firms reported steady demand, with an uptick in corporate
activity and continued strength in intellectual property, energy
and real-estate related services. Accounting firms reported
strong seasonal demand for tax related services.  Reports from transportation service firms were positive. Air
cargo volumes rose, while container shipments were flat during
the reporting period. Railroads noted a broad-based increase in
shipments, with particularly strong growth in petroleum products,
motor vehicles and equipment, nonmetallic minerals, crushed
stone, metals and metallic ores. Shipping service firms reported
an increase in small parcel shipments from the prior report.  Airlines reported passenger demand improved over the past six
weeks. Domestic demand and travel to  Latin America  were solid,
while travel to  Mexico  and the Pacific was weak. Contacts said
business travelers remained price sensitive and were purchasing
restricted discount fares. Responding firms expect passenger
demand to remain stable over the next three months.  Construction and Real Estate  Housing demand continued to firm since the last report. Sales of
existing homes increased moderately and new home sales were flat
to slightly up. Some contacts noted that in January, which is
usually a slow month, buyer interest and activity was strong due
to favorable weather and record low  interest rates . In addition,
a fast-declining inventory of homes was reported. Respondents
expect the positive trend in sales to continue, and outlooks
suggest a modest increase in new  home construction  in 2012.
Apartment leasing activity remained strong since the last report,
and responding firms said Texas markets were outperforming the
U.S. average. Investor interest in sales and development of
multifamily complexes continued to increase. The pace of current
multifamily construction was said to be catching up with
historical norms.  Nonresidential real estate activity continued to pick up,
although construction remained at low levels. Contacts said
recent reports on leasing for office and industrial space
suggest moderate gains, thanks to demand from the energy and
high tech sectors. Investment sales activity continued to
improve, in part, due to very attractive interest rates.
Contacts were optimistic in their outlooks.  Financial Services  Financial firms reported a modest uptick in loan demand.
National banks reported strength in middle-market and large
corporate lending activity, and several regional banks noted
energy-related activity was robust. Outlooks were generally more
optimistic than at year-end 2011. Contacts said loan pricing
remained moderately aggressive, loan quality continued to
improve and problem loans were declining. Respondents noted they
were willing to make loans, and borrowers’ financial positions
were reportedly better than last year.  Energy  Energy-related service firms reported very strong demand over
the past six weeks, despite a small dip in the rig count due to
low natural  gas prices . A few gas-directed drilling firms have
announced drilling cuts, but respondents expect oil-directed
activity to offset the losses. Oil service firms expect strong
orders, high investment activity and good overall prospects in
2012.  Agriculture  Recent rainfall eased drought conditions in several areas,
particularly in the northeastern parts of the District. The rain
helped refill stock tanks and benefitted pasture conditions.
Farmers were a little more optimistic about spring planting.
Demand for agricultural products remained strong. Contacts said
cattle prices climbed to record levels, largely due to tight
supplies. High commodity prices have helped agricultural
producers’ margins, but elevated input costs have erased some of
those gains. 