-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Boston District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-02-29T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-boston-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s First District--  Boston .  FIRST DISTRICT - BOSTON  Economic activity in the First District continues to expand.
With the exception of real estate, business contacts are
generally upbeat about recent results, reporting similar or
better growth than in the last couple of reports. Commercial and
residential real estate markets are not much changed, with
respondents citing weak but not disastrous conditions. While
staffing firms note increased demand for labor, contacts in
retail and manufacturing say they are hiring only modestly and
plan limited pay raises. With a few exceptions, price pressures
appear to have abated.  Retail and Tourism  First District retailers responding in this round report that
business conditions in early 2012 have continued the improvement
seen in the fourth quarter. Contacts ending their fiscal year in
late December or early January say that fiscal 2011 sales ranged
from down 2 percent to up 5 percent compared to 2010. These
results are generally better than they expected at the start of
2011 and reflect strong same-store sales in the last few months
of 2011 as compared to earlier in the year; indeed, December
2011 same-store sales ranged from high single-digit increases
year-over-year to mid-teen increases. The range of results was
wider in January 2012: One retailer reports same-store sales
were down 8 percent to 9 percent year-over-year, which he
attributes to mild weather depressing demand for winter hardware
items as compared to a particularly snowy January 2011. Another
saw January comparable-store sales up 7 percent compared to a
year ago, and a third respondent enjoyed a 17 percent jump,
which he credits in part to the mild winter not keeping
customers at home. All contacts note that store traffic is up.  Responding retailers report that furniture is selling very well,
as is paint. As noted above, the mild winter has depressed sales
of some seasonal items, and one retailer has steeply discounted
winter clothing to get rid of inventory. Prices on furniture are
generally flat, but retailers expect the cost of items made with
copper or titanium oxide (paint) to reflect price increases in
these commodities. Stores are doing light hiring for some full-
time and part-time positions; they are budgeting 2012 merit pay
increases between 2 and 3 percent. Retail respondents expect the
 U.S. economy  to improve further in 2012. While remaining a bit
cautious, they all note that economic conditions seem more
favorable than last fall.  Manufacturing and Related Services  Manufacturing conditions in the First District appear to have
improved since the end of last year. All respondents in this
cycle report sales growth in the fourth quarter from a year
earlier. Although many contacts express serious concerns about
the situation in Europe, only two say that sales to Europe were
actually down. In contrast to the last two rounds, this time few
contacts mention weakness in  Asia . Contacts among defense
suppliers express concern about the budget. One had concluded
that programs his firm worked on were largely insulated from
cuts but said they are “having trouble convincing our investors
of that.” Another said that budget issues are leading to delays
but not to reductions in sales.  Raw material prices have stabilized overall but remain an issue.
On the one hand, a plumbing manufacturer said that copper is “on
the march again.” On the other hand, low natural  gas prices  have
been a boon to U.S. industry. A contact in the industrial
membrane industry reports that a multimillion dollar project to
switch to natural gas has already led to millions of dollars in
savings. A petrochemical contact points out that the equivalent
price of natural gas in terms of oil is approximately $25 a
barrel, making the U.S. a low cost producer of petrochemicals;
as he put it, we are “exporting natural gas in the form of
ethylene and polyethylene.”  All of our manufacturing contacts are increasing investment and
none cites any issues finding financing. Remarkably, almost all
of our contacts say they have acquired at least one company over
the last six months. Almost all responding manufacturers report
increased employment and there are fewer complaints about
difficulties finding qualified workers than in the past; at the
same time, an equipment manufacturer is spending significant
sums on training expenses for new hires. A pharmaceutical firm
closed a facility in Philadelphia and offered jobs in
Massachusetts to 20 employees, but reports that only six
accepted, suggesting confidence in the availability of
employment.  Europe  is a source of considerable concern but has not yet
affected our contacts in a significant way. Two respondents
report slower sales in Europe and one, a plumbing manufacturer,
says Europe is “in a recession.” Another contact revised down
their sales growth forecast for 2012 by 2 percentage points to 4
percent to 5 percent--with the subtraction attributed to
weakness in Europe--but at the same time indicated the risks had
shifted to the upside.  Software and Information Technology Services  First District software and information technology services
contacts report that the upward trends of early 2011 continued
through Q4 2011 and into Q1 2012. Year-over-year revenue
increases in the fourth quarter, ranging from 10 percent to over
25 percent, were generally on par with those seen in the third
quarter. Contacts report upticks in demand across a number of
sectors and geographies, with a few noting that activity in
Europe exceeds their expectations. Growing workloads have led
most contacts to continue to add to their headcounts. Indeed,
one contact is on track to expand its workforce by over 20
percent in 2012; another, by contrast, reports a modest decrease,
with a number of management positions being eliminated in an
ongoing realignment. Two contacts say they have increased
capital and technology spending relative to a year ago in order
to build  office space  in  Massachusetts . Prices are holding
steady, with contacts reporting little to no downward pressure.
The outlook among software and IT contacts is not appreciably
different from that of three months ago; most are cautiously
optimistic and expect revenue growth in 2012 to be in the range
of 10 percent to 20 percent.  Staffing Services  New England  staffing firms generally experienced a better-than-
usual holiday season in 2011, with business picking up steam in
early 2012. However, year-over-year revenue changes in the
fourth quarter varied widely, from flat to up more than 25
percent. Labor demand is higher than three months ago, although
a few contacts report signs of slowing in the light industrial
sector. The growth in demand for permanent and temporary-to-
permanent hiring has accelerated in recent months, with one
contact noting that “clients are definitely ready to hire
permanent employees.” Notwithstanding stronger demand, the
hiring cycle remains elongated, and high-end skill sets are
still difficult to find. Bill rates and pay rates have gone
largely unchanged since November but remain above their year-
earlier levels. Looking forward, New England staffing contacts
are generally more upbeat than they were three and six months
ago, with many expecting their rate of growth to pick up through
the end of 2012.  Commercial Real Estate  Commercial real estate contacts around New England describe
leasing fundamentals as largely unchanged since the last report,
although some note modest positive developments. One Boston
contact reports that some tenants are increasingly willing to
pay top dollar for prime office space in Boston’s Back Bay, but
cautions that such instances do not necessarily reflect a broad-
based increase in office demand in greater Boston. Another
Boston contact describes the city’s office leasing market as
mostly flat, but grants that rents may have increased marginally
in recent months. A Providence contact is more upbeat, noting a
healthy increase in deal volume and significant office
absorption since the last report. By contrast, office leasing
volume slowed somewhat in both  Portland  and Hartford relative to
December. For retail space, Hartford’s vacancy rate held up
better than expected despite weak holiday sales at some large
chains, while in Portland some long-vacant retail properties
have seen a rise in inquiries by potential tenants. Greater
Hartford’s industrial market also saw a modest uptick in tenant
inquiries in recent weeks, including signs of life in the area’s
moribund warehousing and distribution sector.  Boston continues to experience a surge of multifamily
construction activity, with several large projects under way and
more in the planning stages. Financing for such projects is
available on attractive terms, with  interest rates  dipping below
4 percent in some cases. While investors and lenders are bullish
on the multifamily sector and apartment rents have risen
significantly in Boston in the past year, some contacts see a
risk of overbuilding. Boston’s science and technology sector is
generating significant build to-suit construction of
laboratory/office space. At the same time, speculative office
construction remains non-existent across the area, and one
contact estimates that office vacancy rates would have to fall
below 4 percent in Boston to warrant the creation of new office
structures. While office construction is limited, the investment
sales market for prime Boston office properties remains robust
amid a highly liquid financing environment. Echoing similar
comments in recent reports, however, some contacts perceive that
sales prices for prime Boston office properties are too high in
relation to expected fundamentals.  The outlook among contacts is tilted toward optimism. One Boston
contact continues to expect only very slow improvement in
leasing fundamentals in 2012, while another sees greater upside
potential. Another contact expects Boston’s multifamily
construction boom to last another two to three years, but beyond
that sees few prospects for any new construction activity. Our
Providence contact expects solid improvement in fundamentals in
2012, barring risks to growth from local fiscal troubles and a
possible spike in  oil prices . The outlook in Hartford is
moderately optimistic, but based more on sentiment than recent
data. Portland’s commercial market is expected to improve slowly
in 2012, although prime office properties may see more robust
gains.  Residential Real Estate  Sales of single-family homes and condominiums increased in New
England in January, with most reports indicating low to moderate
growth in sales compared to a year ago. Contacts say recent
sales growth reflects market activity more accurately than in
previous reports, when year-over-year increases were distorted
by the expiration of the tax credit in mid-2010. Meanwhile, the
median sale price of homes in First District markets declined
compared to a year ago, which contacts attribute to distressed
property sales. Concerns surrounding the impact of labor market
conditions on housing demand have abated slightly. Respondents
note foreclosures and delinquencies continue to affect the
housing market significantly, but say these factors play less of
a role in New England than in other parts of the country.
Contacts expect low  mortgage rates  and improving employment
outlooks to help fuel buyer activity. In the Greater Boston area,
rent pressures coupled with low interest rates may push more
buyers into the home and condo market.  Contacts expect to see continued year-over-year growth in home
sales in the region, but do not anticipate significant
improvements in the near term, with prices remaining flat at
best. Contacts also note that exceptionally mild winter weather
may prompt spring sales activity to begin earlier than usual. 