-- U.S. Federal Reserve Feb. Beige Book Summary (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-02-29T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/u-s-federal-reserve-feb-beige-book-summary-text-.html
The following is the summary text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Summary of Commentary.  Summary*
Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts suggest that
overall economic activity continued to increase at a modest to
moderate pace in January and early February. Activity expanded
at a moderate pace in the  Cleveland , Chicago, Kansas City,
Dallas, and  San Francisco  Districts.  St. Louis  noted a modest
pace of growth and  Minneapolis  characterized the pace of growth
as firm. Economic activity rose at a somewhat faster pace in the
Philadelphia and Atlanta Districts, while the New York District
noted a somewhat slower pace of expansion. The  Boston  and
Richmond Districts, in turn, noted that economic activity
expanded or improved in most sectors.  Manufacturing continued to expand at a steady pace across the
nation, with many Districts reporting increases in new orders,
shipments, or production and several Districts indicating gains
in capital spending, especially in auto-related industries.
Activity in nonfinancial services industries remained stable or
increased. Reports of  consumer spending  were generally positive
except for sales of seasonal items, and the sales outlook for
the near future was mostly optimistic. Tourism remained strong
in some reporting Districts, but declined in the Minneapolis and
 Kansas City  Districts because of reduced snowfall. Residential
real estate market conditions improved somewhat in most
Districts, with several reports of increased home sales and some
reports of increased construction. Commercial real estate
markets also showed positive results in some Districts. Banking
conditions generally improved across the Districts. Agricultural
conditions were mixed, while extraction activity generally
increased.  Hiring increased slightly across several Districts, and contacts
in a variety of industries faced difficulties finding skilled
workers. Wage pressures were generally contained, and prices of
final goods remained stable, although contacts in some Districts
anticipate passing rising input prices through to consumer
prices.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Manufacturing has continued to increase across all twelve
Federal Reserve Districts since the previous report. Most
Districts reported gains in new orders, shipments, or production.
Contacts reported increased  capital spending  in the Boston,
Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and
Dallas Districts; contacts in Philadelphia and Cleveland also
anticipate higher capital spending. Manufacturing contacts in
San Francisco also continued to invest in information technology
equipment. Auto-related manufacturers in the Richmond, Atlanta,
St. Louis, and Minneapolis Districts reported increased activity
and announced plans to expand operations and open new plants.
Primary metal manufacturing showed strong growth in the
Philadelphia, St. Louis, and Dallas Districts. Fabricated metal
manufacturing increased in the Richmond, Kansas City, and Dallas
Districts but was essentially flat in the San Francisco District.
Steel producers reported that shipping volume was trending
higher in the Cleveland District and specialty metal contacts
reported solid order bookings in the  Chicago  District. In
contrast to the many positive reports, contacts in some
Districts reported plans to decrease operations and close plants.
Contacts in chemical and paper product manufacturing in the St.
Louis District reported plans to close plants and lay off
workers, while manufacturers of household goods and building
materials reported soft demand on average in the Chicago
District. Manufacturing contacts in the Boston, Philadelphia,
and Cleveland Districts expressed concern about the risks posed
by the situation in  Europe .  Nonfinancial services activity was stable or increased in the
New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis,
Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts. Transportation
services were stable or trending higher in the Cleveland,
Richmond, Atlanta, and  Dallas  Districts. In contrast, freight
transportation contacts in the St. Louis and Kansas City
Districts reported that business had slowed. Information
technology service firms in the Boston, St. Louis, Kansas City,
and San Francisco Districts have experienced increased demand
since the previous reporting period. Additionally, contacts in
health care announced plans to increase capital spending or
expand operations in the Richmond and St. Louis Districts.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Retail sales in the Philadelphia, Atlanta, St. Louis,
Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts were higher than year-
earlier sales. The Boston District reported strong same-store
sales in the last few months of 2011, but mixed results for
same-store sales in January. Retail sales increased in the
Richmond and San Francisco Districts, but were mixed in the  New
York  and Cleveland Districts and weakened in the Kansas City
District. Retail sales growth in the Dallas District was tepid
and consumer spending growth slowed in the Chicago District. The
Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, and Dallas
Districts noted that mild winter weather had depressed sales of
seasonal items. Mark-downs on winter merchandise to clear
inventory were reported in the Boston, Chicago, and Richmond
Districts. Aside from unsold seasonal items, inventories were
more broadly reported to be at satisfactory levels. All
Districts reporting sales expectations for the coming months
indicated optimism among contacts that sales will improve.  Gains in auto sales were reported in the Philadelphia, Atlanta,
St. Louis, and Minneapolis Districts. Chicago also reported
sales increases in January, but noted that sales were down
slightly in early February. Auto dealers in the New York,
Cleveland, and Richmond Districts reported a slowdown in recent
auto sales, while auto sales held steady in the Dallas District
and contacts in the Kansas City District reported a post-holiday
lull in sales. All Districts reporting on sales outlooks
conveyed optimism. Dealers in the Kansas City District expect
demand for smaller, fuel-efficient cars to spur sales in coming
months, while contacts in the Cleveland District were optimistic
but uncertain that sales increases in 2011 could be repeated in
2012.  Tourism strengthened or remained strong in the New York,
Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco Districts. The Minneapolis
and Kansas City Districts reported a decrease in tourism largely
attributed to below-average snowfall.  Real Estate and Construction  Residential real estate activity increased modestly in most
Districts. Boston, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas City,
and Dallas reported growth in home sales, while New York noted
steady to slightly softer home sales. Philadelphia reported
strong residential real estate activity. In contrast, home sales
declined in St. Louis and San Francisco noted that home demand
persisted at low levels. Contacts’ outlooks on home sales growth
were mostly optimistic. Contacts in Boston, Philadelphia,
Atlanta, and Dallas expect home sales to rise further.  Home
prices  declined or held steady in many areas. Cleveland and
Atlanta reported little movement in  house prices , while contacts
in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, and Kansas
City reported some declines. Single-family residential
construction was weak in Chicago and declined in St. Louis;
Cleveland noted that the year-end uptick seen in construction
has abated somewhat, and Minneapolis noted increased single-
family building permits. In contrast, Boston, Atlanta, Chicago,
Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco reported increased
multifamily construction activity.  Commercial real estate markets displayed positive results in
some Districts, as leasing showed overall improvement.
Minneapolis, Richmond, Chicago, and Dallas noted increased
leasing. Boston, however, reported mostly unchanged leasing
fundamentals with some modest improvement since the previous
report. Commercial vacancy rates were mixed in New York,
decreased in Chicago, increased in St. Louis, and stayed high in
San Francisco. Boston and Dallas noted limited levels of
nonresidential construction, while Cleveland and Chicago noted
improved nonresidential construction.  Banking and Finance  Reports on banking conditions were generally positive across
Districts. Lending increased to varying degree in the New York,
Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco
Districts. Lending was little changed in St. Louis and Kansas
City, while loan demand was described as weak in Richmond and
soft at regional banks in Atlanta. Demand for business credit
was flat to slightly higher in Cleveland and increased slightly
in Richmond, San Francisco, and at some large banks in Atlanta.
Dallas reported strength in middle-market and large corporate
lending, and Chicago noted that business loan growth continued
at a moderate pace. On the consumer side, loan demand saw little
change in New York and San Francisco. Cleveland and Atlanta
noted increased auto lending, while Kansas City reported
slightly weaker consumer installment lending. Consumer lending
in St. Louis ranged from moderately weaker to unchanged. Demand
for residential  mortgage loans  increased in New York, Richmond,
and Kansas City; mortgage demand was flat to moderately stronger
in St. Louis and softened in Kansas City. Cleveland noted
increases in requests for commercial real estate lending, while
contacts in Chicago and San Francisco noted improvement in the
availability of credit for this sector. Meanwhile Philadelphia
and Kansas City reported flat or steady commercial real estate
lending. Demand for commercial real estate loans was flat to
moderately stronger in St. Louis.  Overall lending standards remained restrictive in San Francisco
and Richmond and were largely unchanged in St. Louis and Kansas
City. Lending standards tightened further for commercial
borrowers in New York. Credit conditions in Chicago improved
slightly, while quality improved in Philadelphia and Kansas City.
Delinquencies were steady or declined in Cleveland. Mortgage
delinquencies were steady in the New York District but
delinquencies decreased in other loan categories.  Agriculture and Natural Resource Industries  Drought conditions and warm temperatures affected agricultural
conditions in some Districts. However, recent rainfalls in parts
of the Richmond, Atlanta, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts
helped ease the dry conditions. Crop yields for St. Louis were
mixed, with only winter wheat, rice, and tobacco showing
positive gains for 2011. Tobacco and cotton yields in Richmond
were lower than historical averages. San Francisco reported
growth in orders and final sales for agriculture products. Farm
values and incomes were stronger in Minneapolis and Kansas City,
while Richmond saw a slight drop in farmland values.  Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco noted higher crude oil
extraction activity. Similarly, Chicago and Minneapolis reported
robust activity in energy and mining, and energy-related service
firms in Dallas reported very strong demand. Mining for various
metals also increased in the San Francisco District. Cleveland
reported flat conventional oil and natural gas drilling and
production, and San Francisco observed lower demand for natural
gas. The Dallas District noted drilling cuts by a few gas-
directed firms, but contacts anticipate that oil-directed
activity will offset losses. Compared with a year ago, current
coal production is lower in St. Louis and higher in Kansas City.  Employment, Wages, and Prices  Of the Districts reporting on hiring, most indicated a slight
increase. Boston, New York, Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis, and
Minneapolis reported increased hiring in manufacturing, and
contacts in Philadelphia and Kansas City anticipate future
hiring in the sector. Several businesses in the Atlanta District
also reported plans to increase payrolls. Philadelphia, Kansas
City, and Dallas noted increased hiring among auto dealers.
Contacts in Boston, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City,
and Dallas were having difficulties finding skilled or
specialized workers in a variety of industries. In contrast,
Boston manufacturing contacts reported fewer complaints about
being unable to find qualified workers. Chicago noted that
hiring remains selective and long-term unemployment elevated,
while San Francisco noted limited demand for new workers.
Staffing firms in Boston noted that the hiring cycle remains
“elongated” despite stronger demand. Staffing firms in Dallas
also noted high demand, while a major employment agency in New
York indicated flat hiring.  Among Districts commenting on wages, upward pressures appeared
limited. Boston noted limited pay rises in retail and
manufacturing. Richmond reported some upward wage pressures in
the service sector and manufacturing. Dallas and San Francisco
reported minimal wage pressures, although upward pressure for
certain specialized positions was reported in both Districts.
Similarly, wage pressures remained largely subdued in Kansas
City except for high-tech and energy positions. Wage pressures
were modest or largely contained in Cleveland and Dallas, while
Philadelphia noted flat wages and Minneapolis reported modest
wage increases. New York noted that Wall Street compensation
remains under downward pressure.  Prices of final goods and services were relatively stable in
most Districts. Retail prices increased at a moderate pace in
the Richmond and Kansas City Districts. Contacts in the New York
District reported modest increases in selling prices and prices
paid. Contacts in the Cleveland, Richmond, Kansas City, and
Dallas Districts noted rising input prices with some expectation
of pass-through to consumer prices. Cost pressures were largely
unchanged in Chicago and input prices have stabilized in the
Boston District, while business contacts noted some increase in
cost pressures in the New York District. Minneapolis and San
Francisco noted increases in the costs of employee benefits.
Philadelphia noted mixed price pressures among manufacturing
firms, with some firms unable to pass their higher costs along.
Atlanta reported that concerns over increased input costs eased,
although several manufacturing firms noted an increase in
commodity prices since the previous report.  * Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis and based on
information collected on or before February 17, 2012. This
document summarizes comments received from business and other
contacts outside the  Federal Reserve System  and is not a
commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials. 