-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Atlanta District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-02-29T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-atlanta-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Sixth District-- Atlanta.  SIXTH DISTRICT - ATLANTA  Summary. Sixth District business contacts described economic
activity as expanding at a somewhat stronger pace in January and
early February compared with late last year. Expectations were
generally more positive, although firms continued to express
caution with regard to the outlook.  Retailers noted that sales and traffic increased compared with a
year ago and auto sales remained robust. Hospitality contacts,
with the exception of cruise lines, reported strong bookings for
this year. Homebuilders and brokers reported that unseasonably
warm weather has helped bolster residential real estate activity
by pulling some activity forward. Nonetheless, overall home
sales and construction levels remained weak apart from the
generally robust multifamily sector. Manufacturers and
transportation contacts continued to note positive activity on
balance. Bankers reported a modest improvement in loan activity
at larger institutions. More firms reported increased hiring,
although contacts continued to signal they approached hiring
decisions very cautiously. Concerns over increased input costs
generally eased as most firms reported that input prices leveled
off. Only a few contacts reported having significant pricing
power.  Consumer Spending  and Tourism. District retail contacts noted
that sales and traffic in January and early February were up
from a year ago. Final holiday sales reports were generally
positive as slightly over half of our retail contacts indicated
that sales were better than last year. Roughly half noted that
inventory levels were up slightly compared with last month, and
most were satisfied with current levels. Most merchants expect
overall sales to improve over the next three months. Retailers
also expect overall sales to improve modestly over the course of
2012. Auto dealers noted that the warm weather experienced in
January likely boosted sales for the month, and they anticipate
new vehicle sales to continue to improve.  Hospitality contacts reported that tourism activity remained
strong and most were optimistic regarding the outlook for
leisure and hospitality spending in 2012. Attendance for major
conventions increased and bookings and lead volume rose,
according to business travel contacts. However, there were
concerns about higher fuel costs and the adverse impact it may
have on drive-to traffic at regional tourist destinations.
Cruise line bookings have suffered in the wake of the maritime
disaster in  Italy .  Real Estate and Construction. The majority of District
residential brokers reported that home sales accelerated in
January and early February and stand above levels from the same
time period last year. However, reports from  Florida  brokers
were more mixed. Contacts noted that inventory levels continued
to decline on year-over-year basis and home prices were nearly
even with a year ago. The outlook among brokers for sales growth
continued to improve with most anticipating modest year-over-
year gains over the next several months.  Most District homebuilders indicated that new home sales and
construction activity growth, measured year-over-year, increased
slightly during January and early February; however, several
contacts noted that unseasonably warm weather in the region
likely pulled some activity forward. Builders continued to
report downward pressure on  home prices  while new home
inventories remained below year-earlier levels. Contacts noted
that multifamily construction remained robust. Over the next
several months, homebuilders anticipate new home sales and
construction to be flat to slightly up compared with a year
earlier.  Most commercial real estate contacts indicated that conditions
continued to improve slowly in the region. Contractors noted a
slight improvement in demand but the market remained very
competitive and activity remained at low levels. Brokers
continued to report modest improvements in demand for space in
several parts of the District with some noting that rent
concessions had abated. The outlook among contacts was similar
to our last report with most contractors and commercial real
estate brokers anticipating that construction activity will
improve slowly during 2012.  Manufacturing and Transportation. Manufacturers across the
region noted more positive results in January and early February
compared with previous reports. In particular, firms reported
increased levels of new orders along with improved expectations
for future orders. Most contacts also signaled that inventory
levels have risen in line with these improved order expectations.
Three major auto manufacturers announced plans to increase
production at their facilities in Alabama and  Georgia , and a
foreign automaker also noted that a parts manufacturing facility
will relocate to the Sixth District.  Transportation contacts reported that inventory-building trends
appeared to be similar to the end of last year. A freight
forwarding company noted that orders were stable and a large
railroad firm continued to report strong increases in auto
shipments. Coal inventory levels declined at the end of last
year, but in recent months have exceeded targeted levels as mild
weather and low natural gas prices dampened demand for coal-
fired electricity generation. Contacts noted that both imports
and exports have leveled off since the beginning of the fourth
quarter of 2011, although trade with  Latin America  continued to
experience modest growth.  Banking and Finance. Liquidity levels remained high at regional
banks as most continued to experience high deposit balances and
soft loan demand. Several large banks noted some growth in
outstanding C&I loans; in part, a result of loan acquisitions
from other institutions and continued growth in areas such as
energy and healthcare. Bankers also reported increased  consumer
lending  attributed mainly to auto financing. Contacts remain
cautious regarding the economic environment and most are
forecasting low loan growth in 2012, but do not expect further
deterioration in capital levels.  Employment and Prices. Firms indicated that hiring expectations
going into 2012 are better than they had been going into 2011.
However, many contacts noted that plans to increase profits
still revolved around further efficiency gains from improvements
in internal operations. Several businesses reported plans to
increase payrolls because they expect an improvement in sales
going forward. They appeared to have regained their customer
base, and these expectations seem to be transmitting into plans
for expansion. Some firms still indicated a preference for
contract workers for short-term projects, but several expressed
increased willingness to consider them for permanent positions.
Aside from optimism about future sales, some contacts also
reasoned that their current employees do not always possess the
necessary skills, leaving firms with no choice but to hire new
workers.  Concerns over increased input costs eased further, although
several manufacturing firms did note an increase in commodity
prices since the last report. Few contacts reported having
significant pricing power. According to the firms surveyed in
the Atlanta Fed’s January Business Inflation Expectations (BIE)
survey, unit costs were expected to rise 1.8 percent for the
year ahead, down slightly from December expectations. Firms
continue to operate in an environment of below normal sales and
depressed margins, according to the survey, though both have
been slowly improving since October of last year.  Natural Resources and Agriculture. Contacts in the energy
exploration sector noted that recent lease auctions have helped
stimulate more industry optimism, contributing to an improvement
in investment conditions. Regional gasoline inventories remained
above their seasonal norms for this time of year as national and
global gasoline consumption remain relatively soft, although
contacts reported ongoing concern about the impact of
geopolitical uncertainty in some OPEC countries on energy prices
going forward.  Significant rains have eased drought conditions in parts of
 Alabama ,  Mississippi , and  Louisiana , while parts of Georgia and
Florida have seen drought conditions worsen. Mild temperatures
throughout the region are of concern to peach and other fruit
crop growers hoping for adequate conditions for the current
growing season. On a year-over-year basis, prices received by
farmers were higher for many of the region’s agricultural
products. Contacts reported that some farmers in Alabama and
Georgia were reviewing their planting plans in light of their
concerns of labor shortages. 