-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Kansas City District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-02-29T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-kansas-city-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Tenth District--  Kansas City .  TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY  The Tenth District economy expanded moderately in January and
early February. Despite a seasonal decline, consumer spending
was stronger than expected and retailers anticipated rising
sales in coming months. District manufacturing activity
rebounded with stronger expectations for production, hiring, and
capital spending. Residential and commercial real estate
activity improved, and District contacts were optimistic
regarding spring sales and construction activity. District banks
reported steady loan demand and improved loan quality.
Agricultural growing conditions improved with recent
precipitation, and farmland values soared with high commodity
prices. High crude oil prices fueled a rebound in District
drilling activity with further gains expected during the next
three months. More contacts reported passing higher raw
materials prices through to finished goods prices. Many District
contacts planned to hire additional workers during the next
quarter. Still, wage pressures remained largely subdued except
for specialized positions in high-tech and energy industries.  Consumer Spending . Consumer spending weakened in January and
early February but was expected to rebound in the months ahead.
District retailers reported a slowdown in sales after the
holidays as consumers shopped for bargains. Still, store owners
noted sales exceeded expectations by rising above year-ago
levels and many remained optimistic that sales would improve in
the coming months. Clearance items moved quickly, and appliance
sales ticked up while demand for furniture and electronics was
weak. Auto dealers reported a post-holiday lull in sales that
boosted inventory levels, especially for SUVs and more expensive
car models. However, auto dealers expected stronger demand for
smaller, fuel efficient cars would spur sales in the coming
months. Some dealerships were hiring salespeople and service
technicians. Restaurant sales were down from the previous survey
but remained higher than year-ago levels and were expected to
pick up with warmer weather. Tourism activity slowed after the
holidays and below-average snowfall hurt bookings at Colorado
ski resorts. District hotel owners, however, reported an uptick
in occupancy at slightly higher average room rates and expected
business to strengthen further during the next three months.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Manufacturing
activity rebounded, and sales at high-tech service firms rose
sharply while transportation activity edged down in the survey
period. Manufacturing activity expanded at both nondurable and
durable goods factories, particularly those producing chemicals,
fabricated metals, and aircraft equipment. After falling in late
2011, the volume of new orders and shipments rebounded in
January and February and finished goods inventories held steady
with increased production. Plant managers expected production,
hiring, and  capital spending  to strengthen during the next six
months. The high-tech industry reported a sharp increase in
sales, and some contacts were worried about losing future
business due to a shortage of specialized labor, particularly
software developers. Transportation activity slowed further but
was expected to improve in the months ahead. Trucking firms
remained concerned about high fuel costs and a lack of qualified
drivers.  Real Estate and Construction. Residential and commercial real
estate activity picked up in January and early February.
Existing home inventories declined as lower prices spurred a
modest increase in sales, particularly for low- and mid-priced
homes. Real estate contacts expected that a seasonal upswing in
sales this spring would stabilize  home prices  in the coming
months. Residential mortgage lenders reported an uptick in loans
for home purchases and higher average loan amounts while home
loan refinancing activity was expected to slow further.
Residential lot prices fell further, and new home starts were on
par with year-ago levels. Builders planned to ramp up
construction in the coming months and sales rose at building
supply firms. New commercial construction increased and was
expected to rise further with more projects in the pipeline.
Commercial real estate prices and rents dipped during the survey
period but were expected to firm as vacancy rates improved.
After edging up in January and early February, commercial real
estate sales were expected to strengthen further during the next
few months. Developers reported little change in access to
credit.  Banking. In the recent survey period, bankers reported generally
steady loan demand, slight improvements in loan quality, and a
modest increase in deposits. Most respondents reported steady
loan demand for commercial and industrial loans and commercial
real estate loans. However, loan demand was slightly weaker for
consumer installment loans and residential real estate loan
demand softened with slower home mortgage refinancing activity.
Bankers reported that  interest rates  on commercial and
industrial loans declined further. Credit standards remained
largely unchanged in all major loan categories, and most
respondents reported stable or increased deposits. The majority
of bankers reported improved loan quality compared with a year
ago, and many bankers expected loan quality to improve further
during the next six months.  Agriculture. Agricultural growing conditions fluctuated with
precipitation levels. After warm, dry weather in January, recent
precipitation kept agricultural growing conditions from
deteriorating further. The winter wheat crop remained in fair to
good condition. Soil moisture levels were low across the
District with western  Oklahoma  and  Kansas  experiencing severe
drought. Ranchers in the southern Plains continued to liquidate
herds due to poor pasture conditions and record high cattle
prices. In the northern Plains, the lack of harsh winter weather
allowed cattle feedlot operators to reduce feed usage and still
maintain livestock growth. District contacts expressed concerns
about 2012 profit margins due to rising feed, fuel, and
fertilizer costs. Still, a rebound in crop prices fueled
additional gains to record high farmland values and more bankers
expected farmland prices to move higher in the next few months.  Energy. Energy activity rebounded in January and early February
and District contacts expected additional expansion in coming
months. After slowing at the start of the year, District
drilling rig activity rebounded with higher crude  oil prices .
Energy contacts, however, noted that a lack of equipment and
services and qualified labor were constraints on current
drilling activity. District contacts expected crude oil and
natural gas prices to hold at current levels and anticipated
further expansion in oil drilling activity. Bucking national
trends,  Wyoming ’s coal production rose above year-ago levels in
January and early February. Ethanol profits dropped sharply as
ethanol prices declined with the year-end expiration of the
federal ethanol subsidy.  Wages and Prices. Wage pressures remained low during the survey
period, and more contacts reported raising finished goods prices
in light of higher raw materials costs. More businesses planned
to hire workers during the next three months, and contacts in
low- and moderate-income communities reported a slight
improvement in job opportunities. However, most firms did not
plan to raise wages except for specialized positions,
particularly in the hightech and energy fields. After edging up
during the past survey period, more retailers expected to raise
selling prices over the next three months. Restaurateurs
expected further increases in menu prices due to soaring food
costs. Hotel operators planned to increase room rates with
higher occupancy rates. Manufacturers paid higher prices for raw
materials, and more manufacturers planned to pass on higher
costs to finished goods prices. Builders and construction supply
companies noted rising prices for construction materials,
especially drywall and asphalt shingles. Transportation
companies paid high fuel prices, and some were raising shipping
rates. 