-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: St. Louis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-02-29T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-st-louis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Eight District--  St. Louis .  Eighth District - St. Louis  Summary  Economic activity in the Eighth District has continued to expand
at a modest pace since the previous survey. Manufacturing
activity has continued to increase, and activity in the services
sector has also increased. Residential real estate activity has
continued to decline, while commercial real estate market
conditions have been mixed. Overall lending at a sample of large
District banks saw little change during the fourth quarter of
2011.  Consumer Spending  Contacts reported that retail sales in January and early
February were up slightly, on average, over year-earlier levels.
Half of the retailers saw increases in sales, while 37 percent
saw decreases and 13 percent saw no changes. Roughly 71 percent
of the retailers reported that sales levels met their
expectations, 17 percent reported that sales were below
expectations, and 12 percent reported that sales were above
expectations. About 21 percent of the retailers reported that
their inventories were too high, while 12 percent reported that
their inventories were too low. The sales outlook for March and
April was mostly optimistic: 65 percent of the retailers expect
sales to increase over 2011 levels, while 13 percent expect
sales to decrease and 22 percent expect sales to be similar to
last year’s sales.  Car dealers in the District reported that sales in January and
early February were up slightly, on average, compared with last
year’s sales. About 48 percent of the car dealers surveyed saw
increases in sales, while 32 percent saw decreases and 20
percent saw no changes. Twenty-eight percent of the car dealers
reported that used car sales had increased relative to new car
sales, while 24 percent reported the opposite. Thirty-two
percent of contacts reported an increase in sales of low-end
vehicles relative to highend vehicles, while 8 percent reported
the opposite. Thirty-two percent of the car dealers surveyed
reported that their inventories were too low, while 24 percent
reported that their inventories were too high. The sales outlook
for March and April was mostly optimistic: 76 percent of the car
dealers expect sales to increase over 2011 levels, while just 4
percent expect sales to decrease and 20 percent expect sales to
be similar to last year’s sales.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Manufacturing activity has continued to increase since our
previous report. Several manufacturers reported plans to open
plants and expand operations in the near future, while a smaller
number of contacts reported plans to close plants or decrease
operations. Firms in the furniture, automobile, food, stone
product, air conditioning component, and medical device
manufacturing industries announced plans to increase existing
operations and hire new workers. Additionally, firms in the
automobile parts and primary metal manufacturing industries
announced plans to open new plants and hire workers. In contrast,
firms in the faucet, chemical, paper product, and lawn mower
manufacturing industries announced plans to close plants and lay
off workers.  Activity in the District’s services sector has continued to
increase since our previous report. Firms in information
technology services, pest control services, distribution
services,  health services , and leisure services announced plans
to expand operations and hire new workers. In contrast, contacts
in freight transportation services, education services,
government services, and business support services announced
plans to decrease operations and lay off workers.  Real Estate and Construction  Home sales continued to decline throughout most of the Eighth
District. Compared with 2010, total 2011 home sales were down 2
percent in  Memphis , 3 percent in St. Louis, 4 percent in
Louisville, and 6 percent in Little Rock. Residential
construction also continued to decrease throughout the District.
Total 2011 single-family housing permits decreased in the
majority of the District metro areas compared with 2010. Permits
decreased 15 percent in Louisville, 20 percent in  Little Rock ,
and 21 percent in St. Louis. However, permits increased 1
percent in Memphis.  Commercial and industrial real estate conditions were mixed
throughout the Eighth District. Contacts in Memphis reported
weak commercial real estate loan demand but stable industrial
real estate activity. Contacts in Louisville reported that
commercial real estate activity has increased since December
2011 while contacts in St. Louis noted an increase in fourth-
quarter 2011 office and industrial vacancy rates compared with
the third quarter of 2011. Commercial and industrial
construction also varied throughout the District. Contacts in
south central Kentucky noted that commercial construction is
showing improved activity with recent business additions and
relocations in the region. Contacts in western  Kentucky , however,
noted that construction projects are very scarce, with the
exception of Owensboro-Daviess County, which has a significant
number of public and private projects underway. Contacts in
northwest  Arkansas  noted an increase in commercial building
construction in the Bentonville area, while contacts in Little
Rock continued to report overall weak construction activity.  Banking and Finance  A survey of senior loan officers at a sample of large District
banks showed little change in overall lending activity during
the fourth quarter of 2011. During this period, credit standards
and demand for commercial and industrial loans remained
unchanged. Credit standards for commercial real estate loans
also remained unchanged. Demand for these loans ranged from
unchanged to moderately stronger. Meanwhile, credit standards
for consumer loans remained unchanged, while demand ranged from
moderately weaker to about the same. Credit standards for prime
residential  mortgage loans  ranged from unchanged to somewhat
eased, while demand for these loans ranged from about the same
to moderately stronger.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Yields for corn, sorghum, hay, soybeans, and cotton were lower
in 2011 compared with 2010, while yields for winter wheat, rice,
and tobacco showed positive gains. Monthly output of commercial
red meat for December 2011 decreased compared with November
2011; the District’s total live weight and number of chickens
slaughtered also decreased during the same period. The
District’s coal production for January 2012 was 1 percent lower
compared with January 2011. Similarly, as of early February,
year-to-date coal production was 4.2 percent lower than the same
period in 2011. 