-- Lumber Tops Commodity Futures in February as Demand From China May Climb
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-02-29T21:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/lumber-may-extend-rally-as-china-u-s-demand-gain-ekstrom-says.html
Lumber futures that surged more than
any other commodity in February may extend a rally to a 10-month
high as  China  boosts imports and the U.S. housing recovers,
researcher Wood Resources International LLC said.  Prices have gained 11 percent since the end of January, the
most among 35 raw materials tracked by the Rogers International
Commodity Index. Lumber may reach $300 per 1,000 board feet by
July on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, up 9 percent from
today’s close of $275.20 and the highest since April 6, Wood
Resources said.  West Fraser Timber Co.,  North America ’s largest producer,
said exports to China “picked up substantially” in the first
quarter from the fourth quarter. Shipments climbed to a record
in 2011, government data show. U.S.  housing starts  rose 1.5
percent last month from December to a 699,000 annual rate, the
most for a January since 2008 and a sign that residential real
estate is stabilizing, the Commerce Department said Feb. 16.  “The general trend should be upward, with more optimism in
the market that housing starts should slowly start to
increase,” Hakan Ekstrom, the president of Wood Resources, said
by telephone from Bothell,  Washington . “The west coast of
 Canada  and the U.S. also have China probably starting to buy
more lumber again.”  Economic Growth  Lumber has rallied as improved economic growth signaled
increased demand for commodities. The Rogers International
Commodity Total Return Index, which includes everything from
gold to rice to rubber, rose 8.2 percent this year as of
yesterday.  Open interest  across 24 commodities tracked by
Bloomberg surged to 10.856 million contracts on Feb. 23, the
highest since April.  Last year, U.S. exports of forest products ranging from oak
boards to toothpicks totaled $7.752 billion, up 13 percent from
2010 and the most on records since 1978, according to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture . Shipments to China surged 59 percent
to $1.952 billion, the highest ever, the data show.  Through November, Canadian sawmills shipped 50.257 million
cubic meters of  lumber  in 2011, 3.2 percent more than in the
same period a year earlier,  Statistics Canada  said in a Jan. 25
report. North American shipments of logs and lumber to China
climbed to a record $2.5 billion last year, and will be higher
this year, Ekstrom said.  China Expansion  The world economy may expand by 3.3 percent this year, less
than a September forecast of 4 percent, the  International
Monetary Fund  said Jan 24. China may expand at an 8.2 percent
pace, while the  U.S. economy  grows 1.8 percent.  Chinese efforts to slow inflation may still limit lumber’s
gains. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in January that the government
will maintain curbs on the  property market  to bring prices down
to a reasonable level. In January, China’s average home prices
were down 0.2 percent from December, while still 1.7 percent
higher than a year earlier,  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  said Feb. 1.  China plans to offer at least 152.6 billion yuan of
subsidies for affordable housing in 2012, the government said
Feb. 23.  “The massive Chinese social-housing program, which will be
affordable condos or very small apartments for low-income
families, is going to mostly offset declines in the private
sector,”  Patricia Mohr , an economist and commodity specialist
at ScotiaBank Group in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.  A measure tracking property  stocks  on the Shanghai
Composite Index climbed 17 percent this year through yesterday,
exceeding the benchmark gauge’s 11 percent advance.  “Our shipments to China slowed somewhat” during the
fourth quarter “due to high lumber inventories there,” Henry Ketcham, the chief executive officer of Vancouver-based West
Fraser, said on a Feb. 17 conference call. “Shipments have
picked up substantially in the new year.”  U.S. Housing  More Americans than forecast signed contracts to buy
previously owned homes in January, indicating the industry that
sparked the latest recession is improving, the National
Association of Realtors said Feb. 27. Still, an S&P/Case-Shiller
index showed yesterday that property values in 20 U.S. cities
fell more than forecast in December.  “We’ve had a mild winter, so no problems with
construction, weather-wise,” Jamie Greenough, a broker at
Global Securities Corp., said by telephone from  Vancouver . “The
export market is still robust.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  