-- Turkey’s Small Solar Plant Rules to Spur Boom in Installations
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-03-01T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/turkey-streamlines-rules-for-small-solar-electricity-projects.html
Turkey  decision to simplify the
process for developing solar power projects of up to 500
kilowatts will spur a boom in installations, the industry’s main
lobby group said.  The government published legislation last week that allows
the plants to start production without getting a license, Nafiz
Kaya, a spokesman for the Turkish Energy Market Regulatory
Authority, said yesterday. Projects of this size can power about
700 homes, he said. Rules for bigger projects are due next year.  Developers are likely to add as much as 1,100 megawatts in
photovoltaic capacity by the end of 2014, according to Ates
Ugurel, founder of the  Turkish Solar Energy Industry
Association . This compares with the 3 megawatts installed so far
in the country.  “There is no cap, so you can install multiples of 500-
kilowatt systems anywhere in the country,” said Ugurel, who is
also chief executive officer of Ires Enerji, a developer based
in Istanbul.  Turkey passed renewable energy legislation in December 2010
that fixed feed-in tariffs, or premium rates for clean energy.
That included a plan to develop 600 megawatts in photovoltaic
capacity by 2015. The country aims to generate 30 percent of its
power from renewable sources by 2023.  Company Interest  Solar companies including  Germany ’s  Phoenix Solar AG (PS4)  and
Gehrlicher Solar AG are already joining with local companies to
get a foot in the market. Phoenix signed an exclusive
partnership with Ires Enerji in January, and Gehrlicher
established a joint venture with Merk, a unit of Istanbul-based
energy group Akfel Group, on Feb. 1.  “Due to its fast growth and increasing energy demand,
Turkey is a highly attractive market for solar power,” Chief
Executive Klaus Gehrlicher said at the time. “The government
acted thoughtfully when creating a tariff which allows
interesting investments in renewable energies but is at the same
time very close to the general electricity tariff.”  The country pays a feed-in tariff of $133 per megawatt hour
of solar power. That’s less than a third of the average Greek
tariff and half of what Italy pays. Plant owners can earn an
additional premium of as much as $67 per megawatt if components
are made locally.  Even so, Ugurel expects 4 megawatts to 5 megawatts in new
installations this year, 50 megawatts to 100 megawatts next year
and as many as 1,000 megawatts in 2014. Utility scale projects
cannot be built until 2014, he said.  Large-Scale Solar  The government will start accepting applications for
licenses to develop the first utility-scale solar plants in the
last quarter of 2013, according to the Ires CEO. Developers will
start measuring solar radiation in the second half of this year
so they can apply with the minimum one year of data. The lowest
bids will secure the licenses, he said.  In August, Turkey’s Ministry of Energy defined grid
connection points in 27 provinces in the country’s south where
developers can take measurements in order to seek licenses for
some of the 600 megawatts.  Akfel Group aims to obtain “a good share” of these
megawatts, its CEO Murad Baltaci said in a statement on Feb. 1.
Ires and Phoenix Solar will try to get at least 5 percent of
this capacity while focusing on smaller commercial rooftops,
according to Ugurel. The two companies are already in talks to
develop 500-kilowatt projects, he said.  The tariff is not enough, so many investors are just
looking to secure the licenses for large projects and may sell
electricity directly to end users in 2014 and 2015, the board
member of the lobby group. He said there’s speculation the
tariff may be extended to 20 years from 10 years and increased
to $150 per megawatt hour.  “The Turkish solar market is developing rapidly, with grid
parity expected as early as 2013 in some areas of the country,”
Klaus Ullrich, vice-president for international sales at Phoenix
Solar, said. “We are convinced that Turkey has the potential to
become an important growth market in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  