-- Veolia Backs CEO Following Reports Proglio Seeking New Chief
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-02-29T17:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/veolia-backs-ceo-following-reports-proglio-seeking-new-chief-1-.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  Chief
Executive Officer Antoine Frerot, seeking to restructure the
utility by selling assets and cutting debt, was backed by his
board following reports his predecessor was seeking a new chief.  The board of directors “reaffirms the relevance of the
strategic plan adopted in December 2011 and renews its
confidence in the CEO,” the company said today in a statement.  Les Echos  newspaper and other media reported that former
CEO  Henri Proglio , who heads state-controlled Electricite de
 France  SA and remains a Veolia director, tried to garner support
among the board to replace Frerot with former Environment
Minister Jean-Louis Borloo, and put the proposal to President
Nicolas Sarkozy.  In December, Frerot announced plans to cut the dividend and
sell assets worth 5 billion euros ($6.7 billion). The waste and
water utility has lost about half its market value since July,
when it said it would miss its 2011 net income growth target and
take writedowns. The  shares  rose 2.09 percent to 9.185 euros
today.  Veolia board member Augustin de Romanet, who is head of the
Caisse des Depots et Consignations, resigned today before his
mandate at CDC finishes on March 7, according to a spokesman for
the state-owned bank. CDC will retain representation on the
board, although it’s not decided who will take de Romanet’s
place, he said.  “This chapter is closed,” Alain Minc, an adviser to
Sarkozy, said two days ago in an interview on BFM radio when
asked about governance at Veolia. “There have been shocks and I
think now calm will return.”  Debt Reduction  Frerot’s restructuring plan is aimed at reducing debt as
Veolia exits the mass-transit business to focus on water, waste
and energy services. It marks the end of the global expansion
started by Proglio, who became chairman and CEO of EDF in 2009
while remaining chairman of Veolia until December 2010.  Proglio spent about 4 billion euros on acquisitions in 2007
and 2008, pushing the utility’s operations into 77 countries
from  Argentina  to  South Korea .  Veolia will narrow its geographic reach to about 40
countries in a bid to lower debt to less than 12 billion euros
by the end of 2013, Frerot said in December. Net financial debt
was 15 billion euros at the end of September.  The asset sales will “drive a profound transformation of
our company,” Frerot said Dec. 6 at an investor day to unveil
details of the turnaround plan. “I am giving myself two years
to carry it out.”  Annual Results  The board met today to discuss 2011 results, which will be
announced tomorrow, when Frerot is scheduled to give a press
conference and presentation to analysts.  “Lots of people will be listening closely to see what he
will say about his future,” Atallah Estephan, an analyst at
 Macquarie Research  in  London , said by phone. “This is critical
in determining whether the company will push ahead with
disposals.”  Following asset sales, Veolia plans to focus on central and
eastern  Europe ,  China , France, waste operations in the U.K. and
energy services in the U.S. The Paris-based utility proposed
cutting the dividend to 70 euro cents a share in 2012 and 2013,
compared with 1.21 euros for 2010.  “We are preparing the company for difficult times,”
Frerot said at the investor day.  Other candidates for the CEO position included former
 Societe Generale (GLE)  SA chief Daniel Bouton and Caisse des Depots et
Consignations head Augustin de Romanet, both directors at
Veolia, according to  Les Echos .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  