-- UniCredit’s Dieter Rampl Won’t Seek Another Term as Chairman
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-02-29T11:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/verona-mayor-tosi-seeks-italian-chairman-to-replace-rampl-at-unicredit.html
Dieter Rampl won’t stand for another
term as chairman of  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  as investors including
Fondazione Cariverona seek an Italian replacement.  Rampl, 64, a former head of HVB Group, was named chairman
of  Italy ’s biggest lender in January 2006 after the German bank
was purchased by Milan-based UniCredit.  “Rampl informed the board of his decision not to be
available for a further mandate,” UniCredit said yesterday in a
statement. UniCredit’s board term ends in April and shareholders
are scheduled to elect new directors on May 11.  UniCredit’s oldest shareholders, the country’s banking
foundations, which hold more than 10 percent of the lender, have
already started discussions on a list of board candidates.
Foundations may have to reduce their weight on the board after
international investors increased their stake in UniCredit in a
share sale last month.  UniCredit  rose  11 cents, or 2.9 percent, to 3.95 euros by
12:07 p.m. in Milan trading, giving the bank a market value of
22.9 billion euros.  Flavio Tosi, Verona’s mayor, said he’s seeking an Italian
replacement for Rampl.  “An Italian chairman is now a given,” Tosi said in a text
message today. The City of Verona is the largest shareholder of
Fondazione Cariverona, one of UniCredit’s biggest investors.  UniCredit may cut the size of the board to 15 members from
23, La Stampa reported earlier this month. Rampl, who presented
the plan to the  Bank of Italy , has sought to reduce the seats
assigned to the lender’s foundations, which include Fondazione
CRT and Cariverona, to three from nine, the newspaper said.  Focus on Italy  “We believe that an Italian chairman could potentially
increase the focus of the group on Italy,” Manuela Meroni, a
Milan-based analyst at Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, wrote in a note
today.  Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni , 56, may be
reconfirmed in his role after the bank completed the 7.5 billion
euro ($10 billion) share sale in January to plug a capital
shortfall and comply with European Banking Authority targets.  Ghizzoni, to entice investors, said he would undertake a
cost-cutting reorganization and boost profitability as the bank
focuses on four main countries: Italy, Germany, Austria and
 Poland .  The lender is also reducing staff to help boost
profitability after reporting a third-quarter loss of 10.6
billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  