-- Vietnam Ready to Force Bank Mergers
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-29T07:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/vietnam-ready-to-force-bank-mergers-as-bad-loans-hurt-growth.html
Vietnam ’s central bank said it’s
ready to force mergers among weak lenders and keep  monetary
policy  “tight” yet flexible as it grapples with a credit
crunch that has forced thousands of companies out of business.  “The central bank can take measures to force some merger
and acquisition activities if and when needed, in line with the
Law on the State Bank of Vietnam,” Deputy Governor Nguyen Dong Tien said yesterday in a written reply to questions from
Bloomberg News.  The nation has stepped up efforts to overhaul a banking
system hobbled by bad debt after rapid credit growth in recent
years fueled a trade  deficit  and Asia’s fastest inflation,
prompting depositors to favor short-term savings and crimping
funding for long-term loans. The central bank said this month
that some banks won’t be allowed to expand lending this year, as
Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung ordered the authority to
“solve” a shortage of funds within the first quarter.  The shares of five out of seven publicly traded banks in
Vietnam rose today. Vietnam Export-Import Commercial Joint Stock
Bank, or Eximbank, gained 4.7 percent, Saigon Thuong Tin
Commercial Joint Stock Bank, or Sacombank, climbed 4.7 percent
and  Asia  Commercial Bank, or ACB, advanced 2.2 percent. The Ho
Chi Minh City Stock Exchange’s VN Index gained 0.3 percent
today.  “The central bank should be more determined, more drastic
in treating weak banks,” said Cao Sy Kiem, vice-chairman of the
National Financial and Monetary Policy Advisory Council, which
advises the prime minister. “It will be risky for the stability
of the entire economy if the bank restructuring process is not
carried out properly.”  Implementing Mergers  Tien said the central bank will allow mergers and
acquisitions to be done “in a voluntary manner” as the State
Bank focuses this year on improving funding in the banking
system, including “implementing” combinations among weak
lenders.  The merger late last year of three Vietnamese banks into
one under the supervision of a state-owned bank “signals a
template for a process of bank consolidation, loss recognition
and capital writedown,” UBS AG said this month. The  State Bank 
said in December three unlisted and privately owned banks, First
Commercial Joint-Stock Bank, Tin Nghia Commercial Joint-Stock
Bank and Saigon Commercial Joint-Stock Bank, would voluntarily
merge to bolster their liquidity and cut costs.  “Banks that have been or will be told they can’t increase
their loans this year de facto will have to do something,
because a bank that can’t increase its loans can’t survive,”
said Dominic Scriven, chief executive of Ho Chi Minh City-based
fund manager Dragon Capital.  Vietnam has 50 banks, including five state-owned banks and
five wholly foreign-owned banks, according to the central bank’s
website. The five largest listed banks had total assets of
almost $63 billion as of Sept. 30, according to the banks’
financial statements to the  stock exchanges .  Companies Fail  Bad loans in Vietnam may exceed official estimates by as
much as three times, and bad debt may “rise sharply,”
according to U.K.-based Capital Economics. The Vietnam
Association of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises estimates
about 150,000 companies failed or shut down operations due to
financial difficulties last year, or about a third of the
country’s companies.  Kiem said banks met less than a third of Vietnamese
corporate funding demand last year.  “There are quality companies that can’t get access to
credit at a price they think is fair, but that’s a function of
the monetary policy situation rather than bank capacity to
lend,” said  Louis Taylor , the Vietnam chief executive for
Standard Chartered Plc. “The bigger banks have balance sheet
capacity, but the amount of credit that they can give out is
being limited by the central bank as part of the effort to curb
 inflation .”  Growth Slows  The State Bank raised some borrowing costs last year,
juggling the need to contain inflation while trying to ensure
sufficient credit flows to businesses to support economic
 growth .  Vietnam’s economy  expanded  5.89 percent last year, down
from 6.78 percent in 2010. The VN Index slumped 27 percent 
in 2011 as soaring inflation hurt investor confidence. The
Southeast Asian nation’s credit rating was downgraded by  Fitch
Ratings , Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  in
2010, and the country devalued its currency 7 percent last year.
The  stock index  is up 21 percent this year.  “The central bank in 2012 will pursue a tight, cautious,
flexible monetary policy in line with the government’s fiscal
policy to stabilize the money market and ensure liquidity at
banks,” Tien said.  The central bank cut its repurchase rate to 14 percent from
15 percent in July last year after a series of increases to
tackle inflation. It raised  the refinancing rate  to 15 percent
by the end of 2011 from 9 percent at the end of 2010. Last
month, Vietnam’s central bank signaled that it may cut rates
after the first quarter, even after the IMF and the  World Bank 
said the country must guard against loosening monetary policy
too soon.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Hanoi at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  