-- Volcker Says Rule Won’t Apply to Foreign Banks’ Non-U.S. Units
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2012-02-29T10:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/volcker-says-rule-won-t-apply-to-foreign-banks-non-u-s-units.html
U.S. plans to ban proprietary
trading by banks won’t apply to foreign banks operating outside
the country, former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  said.  “The law and concept is quite clear,” Volcker told
reporters in Abu Dhabi today. “Proprietary trading by foreign
banks in the United States is prohibited. Foreign banks outside
the U.S. are not covered.”  Central bankers and regulators globally have expressed
concern that the so-called Volcker rule, which would apply to
the U.S. operations of overseas banks, may be extended to firms’
operations across the rest of the world.  Michel Barnier , the
European Union’s financial services chief, said on Feb. 23 the
proposed ban may cause problems for banks in some of the largest
economies in  Europe .  The “technical application” of the so-called Volcker rule
“to the operations of non-American banks has raised some
angst,” Volcker said.  The Volcker rule, included in the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act
scheduled to take effect in July, is aimed at restricting risky
trading at banks that operate with federal guarantees.  In a joint letter published Feb. 13, the world’s largest
banks demanded changes to the proposed ban on proprietary
trading. They said the rule would increase risk, raise investor
costs, hurt U.S. competitiveness and be vulnerable to court
review. Group of 20 leaders haven’t endorsed the rule, which
exempts  U.S. government debt  though not non-U.S.  government
bonds .  These concerns “I hope can be satisfactorily resolved” in
a review of the proposals, Volcker said. The rule doesn’t
restrict market making by banks and the underwriting of
securities, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net  