-- Wall Street Talent War Seen as Cantor Fitzgerald Bankers Defect to China
-- B y   S h a i   O s t e r   a n d   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-02-29T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/wall-street-talent-war-seen-as-cantor-fitzgerald-bankers-defect-to-china.html
On May 26 last year, amid the gold
lighting and $60 entrees at a restaurant in  Hong Kong ’s Central
entertainment district, Jason Boyer confided to a friend that he
was leaving Wall Street.  Instead of moving to a traditional rival, the head of
Cantor Fitzgerald LP’s Hong Kong branch told colleague Didier Bensadoun he was joining a boutique bank backed by China. The
venture’s government-owned partner in June marked the Communist
Party’s 90th anniversary with employees singing “Revolutionists
are Young Forever.”  “People were surprised I’d leave Cantor,” Boyer, 42, said
in an interview. “This move is evolving with the world, it’s
going to the next level.”  After Boyer and three of his colleagues resigned from
Cantor on the same day to join what is now called Reorient
Financial Markets Ltd., Cantor sued them, accusing them of
conspiring to hurt Cantor through a coordinated defection. Hong
Kong’s High Court yesterday ruled they hadn’t and rejected
Cantor’s claim for damages.  The dispute highlights how Chinese financial firms are
becoming more aggressive in their pursuit of talent. They’re
raising salaries and hiring headhunters to target veterans from
established Wall Street institutions who can bridge Chinese
state capitalism and international markets.  Bankers in return are lured to the world’s  second-biggest
economy  as a source of deals, as state-owned assets are broken
up and sold off and  China ’s industrial behemoths step up
acquisitions abroad. Overseas direct investment rose 10-fold to
$68 billion in 2011 from a decade earlier, according to A
Capital, a Beijing-based private equity fund.  ‘Story to Tell’  “Chinese banks are going out and they’ve got a story to
tell,” said CK Wan, a Hong Kong-based senior partner of
headhunter Korn/Ferry International who has hired investment
bankers for Chinese banks. “They’ve got access to clients that
others don’t and this is appealing to senior bankers.”  Bocom International Holdings Co., the overseas securities
unit of China’s fifth largest lender, Bank of Communications
Co., boosted pay to attract top talent in Hong Kong, Wang Dong,
director of the firm’s executive office said in an e-mail. The
788,000 yuan ($125,129) that Bank of Communications chairman Hu Huaibang in  Shanghai  earned in 2010 is little more than the
$100,000 Boyer says he earned each month at Cantor.  Citic Securities International Co., a subsidiary of
Beijing-based Citic Securities Co., has increased international
hiring by 5 percent annually over the past few years, according
to Elaine Wong, its head of human resources. Recruitment was
aided by job cuts at multinational competitors, she said.  Legal Battles  Western companies have hit back through legal action. In
2010 in  Singapore , London-based oil company BP Plc sued members
of its fuel oil trading team who moved to Shenzhen Brightoil
Group, controlled by Chinese billionaire Raymond Sit Kwong Lam.
The case was settled out of court in October last year,
according to court documents.  The lure of China for the Cantor alumni who were sued --
none of whom reads or writes Chinese -- lies in a pipeline of
deals promised by  China Chengtong Holdings Group Ltd. , a joint
venture partner in Reorient Financial’s Hong Kong-based parent
 Reorient Group Ltd. (376)  Chengtong is a conglomerate with more than
100 subsidiaries ranging from logistics to pulp and paper. It
wants foreign expertise and capital to streamline its sprawling
business, sell off assets and expand overseas.  Boutique Bank  “Our goal is to create a new boutique-style investment and
merchant bank that can take the Chinese out through joining
assets and acquisition, and bring foreign money in,” Brett McGonegal, who left Cantor along with Boyer and is now
Reorient’s chief executive officer, said in an interview. He
appeared in court wearing tailored suits matched with
embroidered slippers.  Boyer, a wine collector, says he knew his exit would upset
his boss, Cantor’s New York-based chairman and chief executive
officer  Howard Lutnick , 50. Lutnick has a history of legal
battles with rivals, including other brokers and the widow of
Cantor’s founder, B. Gerald “Bernie” Cantor, from whom he
wrested control of the firm.  New York-based Cantor spokesman Robert Hubbell declined to
comment on the case or say whether the company would appeal the
ruling.  No Gold Watch  “In any other company in the world you’d get a handshake
and a party if you left -- maybe even a gold watch for building
up such a business,” said Boyer, who says he expanded the
brokerage’s Hong Kong unit from four to 75 people in three years
after relocating from  New York  in 2004. “I’d seen enough of
Cantor to know I wasn’t going to get a handshake.”  Four days after his dinner with Bensadoun, Boyer quit along
with two of the firm’s top traders -- Americans Bradford Ainslie, 34, and McGonegal, 38, from the cash equities desk --
and German-born Uwe Parpart, 70, Cantor’s former chief Asia
economist and strategist. Boyer became Reorient’s vice chairman
and executive managing director.  Six weeks later Cantor filed its lawsuit, claiming their
departures cost the  Wall Street  firm 29 percent of its average
monthly revenue in Hong Kong.  The 5-day trial in January at Hong Kong’s High Court
focused in part on Cantor’s corporate culture under Lutnick.  Boyer’s counsel, Adrian Huggins, told the court that his
client knew anyone who crossed Lutnick “will be pursued to the
end of the world.”  ‘Years to Come’  When Bensadoun took the witness stand, Huggins asked
whether Lutnick had an aggressive outburst in which he said: “I
hope Jason Boyer has saved all the money he made here because
he’ll need it for his lawyers for years to come.”  Bensadoun answered: “He made a comment about Jason but I
can’t recollect the exact words.”  In his written judgment, High Court Judge A.T. Reyes said
Cantor had failed to show it lost more than a “nominal figure”
in revenue because of the departures. He also said the
defendants had not conspired against Cantor.  “There is not a shred of evidence suggesting that, whether
individually or collectively, they had any intention to injure
Cantor Hong Kong,” he said.  Over lunch in a private room at the members-only American
Club two weeks before the court decision, Boyer said he’d helped
 Lutnick  rebuild Cantor after 658 of its employees were killed in
the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attack.  Rebuilding Cantor  “I respected him as a businessman,” said Boyer, who flew
back to New York from the firm’s London office after 9/11. “I
couldn’t argue with his work ethic or business acumen.”  Motivated by reports of China’s rising incomes, Boyer moved
to Hong Kong to open Cantor’s outpost in the city, in an office
he outfitted with a pool table. The firm traded blocks of stock
for institutional buyers from the U.S. and  Europe , and
introduced them to Hong Kong-listed companies that had typically
only dealt with local retail buyers.  His relationship with Lutnick began to sour in 2009, Boyer
said in an interview. The CEO took a more hands-on approach to
the business and Boyer was told that instead of a bonus he’d get
a loan that might be forgiven, he said.  “I was caught off guard,” Boyer said. “It came out of
the blue.”  Into the breach stepped Johnson Chun Shun Ko, a self-made
businessman who specializes in buying and selling distressed
assets, including the failed brokerage that became Reorient. His
publicly disclosed holdings in three companies are worth $133
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Humble Origins  The two shared humble origins. Raised by a single mother
who worked as a part-time teacher in Toronto, Boyer worked odd
jobs as a boy and remembers the first pair of white and blue
Nike sneakers he bought for $100 when he was 12.  At about the same age, Ko fled the famine of Chairman  Mao Zedong ’s Great Leap Forward. In 1961, he and his grandmother
left Eastern China’s Fujian province, where he recalls a year in
which the only food in his village was sweet potatoes. They made
their way to the then-British colony of Hong Kong. Ko’s not sure
whether his age is 61 or 63 because of conflicting information
about his date of birth.  By 2010, Ko was mulling a boutique investment bank backed
by the muscle and deal flow of a Chinese state-owned enterprise
coupled with the market savvy and access to institutional money
of foreign bankers.  “I realized there is room for a local bank, but it would
take years to build,” said Ko, Reorient Group’s chairman,
wearing a company-branded fleece vest under his suit jacket.
“How do we start? We need a state-owned enterprise.”  A friend at the State-owned Assets Supervision and
Administration Commission, or SASAC, which oversees China’s
biggest government-controlled companies excluding banks,
introduced Ko to Chengtong.  German Navy Officer  For overseas expertise, Ko turned to an old associate:
Cantor’s Parpart, who says he’s a former German Navy officer and
later worked promoting the Strategic Defense Initiative, also
known as  Star Wars , with the Reagan Administration.  Boyer tried to sell the deal to Lutnick until negotiations
broke down in August 2010, according to the court judgment.  Ko kept pursuing the deal.  “He’s like a terrier,” Parpart said. “He’s very
persistent.”  Wall Street bankers were sought by Chengtong so it can
better understand  capital markets , Chen Shengjie, vice president
of its  asset management company , said in an interview in Hong
Kong. Raising money to cover workers’ pensions and minimizing
job losses is as important as making a profit when restructuring
China’s state enterprises, he said.  Social Stability  “Give us tens of thousands of workers from a bankrupt
factory, and we have the tools to solve the issues of social
stability,” said Chen, who also sits on the board of Reorient
Group. “But when it comes to the assets, we need someone else
because we don’t have that experience.”  The pace of restructuring will accelerate as SASAC wants to
reduce the number of state-owned firms from about 130 to about
80, according to Chen.  There are no guarantees for Boyer and other bankers tying
their futures to China. Reorient Group posted a  pretax loss  of
HK$8.8 million ($1.13 million) for 2011, largely on costs
related to building up staff after Ko pulled the company out of
liquidation proceedings and re-listed it on the Hong Kong stock
exchange.  China’s expansion overseas reminds some of  Japan ’s struggle
to expand, said  Paul Schulte , who left Tokyo-based Nomura
Holdings Inc. in 2010 to join CCB International Securities Ltd.,
the overseas investment bank of China Construction Bank Corp. in
Beijing.  ‘Blow Up?’  “Major funds that wouldn’t take a meeting with me before
now have accounts with CCB,” Schulte, a financial strategist,
said. “But people still ask: are you going to blow up like the
Japanese?”  Nomura is struggling with its 2008 acquisition of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. operations after two top bankers who
crossed over departed earlier this year. Daiwa Securities Group
Inc., also based in  Tokyo , cut staff in Hong Kong last month.  Boyer says the risk is not about money, even though he has
two ex-wives and three children to support.  “Being backed or endorsed by a state-owned enterprise
can’t hurt,” he said. “But it’s really the opportunity to
build something and grow it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shai Oster in Hong Kong at 
 soster@bloomberg.net 
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Western at 
 nwestern@bloomberg.net 
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  