-- Wall Street Bonus Withdrawal Means Trading Aspen for Coupons
-- B y   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 2012-02-29T19:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/wall-street-bonus-withdrawal-means-trading-aspen-for-cheap-chex.html
Andrew Schiff was sitting in a
traffic jam in  California  this month after giving a speech at an
investment conference about gold. He turned off the satellite
radio, got out of the car and screamed a profanity.  “I’m not Zen at all, and when I’m freaking out about the
situation, where I’m stuck like a rat in a trap on a highway
with no way to get out, it’s very hard,” Schiff, director of
marketing for broker-dealer Euro Pacific Capital Inc., said in
an interview.  Schiff, 46, is facing another kind of jam this year: Paid a
lower bonus, he said the $350,000 he earns, enough to put him in
the country’s top 1 percent by income, doesn’t cover his
family’s private-school tuition, a Kent,  Connecticut , summer
rental and the upgrade they would like from their 1,200-square-
foot Brooklyn duplex.  “I feel stuck,” Schiff said. “The  New York  that I wanted
to have is still just beyond my reach.”  The smaller bonus checks that hit accounts across the
financial-services industry this month are making it difficult
to maintain the lifestyles that  Wall Street  workers expect,
according to interviews with bankers and their accountants,
therapists, advisers and headhunters.  “People who don’t have money don’t understand the
stress,” said Alan Dlugash, a partner at accounting firm Marks
Paneth & Shron LLP in New York who specializes in financial
planning for the wealthy. “Could you imagine what it’s like to
say I got three kids in private school, I have to think about
pulling them out? How do you do that?”  Bonus Caps  Facing a slump in revenue from investment banking and
trading, Wall Street firms have trimmed 2011 discretionary pay.
At  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Barclays Capital , the cuts were
at least 25 percent.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  capped cash bonuses at
$125,000, and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  increased the percentage of
deferred pay.  Wall Street’s cash bonus pool fell by 14 percent last year
to $19.7 billion, the lowest since 2008, according to
projections by New York state Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli .  “It’s a disaster,” said Ilana Weinstein, chief executive
officer of New York-based search firm IDW Group LLC. “The
entire construct of compensation has changed.”  Most people can only dream of Wall Street’s shrinking
paychecks. Median household income in 2010 was $49,445,
according to the U.S. Census Bureau, lower than the previous
year and less than 1 percent of Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein’s $7 million restricted-stock bonus for 2011. The
percentage of Americans living in poverty climbed to 15.1
percent, the highest in almost two decades.  House of Mirth  Comfortable New Yorkers assessing their discomforts is at
least as old as Edith Wharton’s 1905 novel “The House of
Mirth,” whose heroine Lily Bart said “the only way not to
think about money is to have a great deal of it.”  Wall Street headhunter Daniel Arbeeny said his “income has
gone down tremendously.” On a recent Sunday, he drove to
Fairway Market in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn to buy
discounted salmon for $5.99 a pound.  “They have a circular that they leave in front of the
buildings in our neighborhood,” said Arbeeny, 49, who lives in
nearby Cobble Hill, namesake for a line of pebbled-leather  Kate
Spade  handbags. “We sit there, and I look through all of them
to find out where it’s worth going.”  $17,000 on Dogs  Executive-search veterans who work with  hedge funds  and
banks make about $500,000 in good years, said Arbeeny, managing
principal at New York-based CMF Partners LLC, declining to
discuss specifics about his own income. He said he no longer
goes on annual ski trips to  Whistler (WB) ,  Tahoe  or Aspen.  He reads other supermarket circulars to find good prices
for his favorite cereal, Wheat Chex.  “Wow, did I waste a lot of money,” Arbeeny said.  Richard Scheiner, 58, a real-estate investor and hedge-fund
manager, said most people on Wall Street don’t save.  “When their means are cut, they’re stuck,” said Scheiner,
whose New York-based hedge fund, Lane Gate Partners LLC, was
down about 15 percent last year. “Not so much an issue for me
and my wife because we’ve always saved.”  Scheiner said he spends about $500 a month to park one of
his two Audis in a garage and at least $7,500 a year each for
memberships at the Trump National Golf Club in Westchester and a
gun club in upstate New York. A labradoodle named Zelda and a
rescued bichon frise, Duke, cost $17,000 a year, including food,
health care, boarding and a daily dog-walker who charges $17
each per outing, he said.  ‘Crushing Setback’  Still, he sold two motorcycles he didn’t use and called his
Porsche 911 Carrera 4S Cabriolet “the Volkswagen of
supercars.” He and his wife have given more than $100,000 to a
nonprofit she founded that promotes employment for people with
Asperger syndrome, he said.  Scheiner pays  $30,000  a year to be part of a New York-based
peer-learning group for investors called Tiger 21. Founder
Michael Sonnenfeldt said members, most with a net worth of at
least $10 million, have been forced to “re-examine lots of
assumptions about how grand their life would be.”  While they aren’t asking for sympathy, “at their level, in
a different way but in the same way, the rug got pulled out,”
said Sonnenfeldt, 56. “For many people of wealth, they’ve had a
crushing setback as well.”  He described a feeling of “malaise” and a “paralysis
that does not allow one to believe that generally things are
going to get better,” listing geopolitical hot spots such as
Iran and low  interest rates  that have been “artificially
manipulated” by the  Federal Reserve .  Poly Prep  The malaise is shared by Schiff, the New York-based
marketing director for Euro Pacific Capital, where his brother
is CEO. His family rents the lower duplex of a brownstone in
Cobble Hill, where his two children share a room. His 10-year-
old daughter is a student at $32,000-a-year Poly Prep Country
Day School in  Brooklyn . His son, 7, will apply in a few years.  “I can’t imagine what I’m going to do,” Schiff said.
“I’m crammed into 1,200 square feet. I don’t have a dishwasher.
We do all our dishes by hand.”  He wants 1,800 square feet -- “a room for each kid, three
bedrooms, maybe four,” he said. “Imagine four bedrooms. You
have the luxury of a guest room, how crazy is that?”  Vegas, Ibiza  The family rents a three-bedroom summer house in
Connecticut and will go there again this year for one month
instead of four. Schiff said he brings home less than $200,000
after taxes, health-insurance and 401(k) contributions. The
closing costs, renovation and down payment on one of the $1.5
million 17-foot-wide row houses nearby, what he called “the low
rung on the brownstone ladder,” would consume “every dime” of
the family’s savings, he said.  “I wouldn’t want to whine,” Schiff said. “All I want is
the stuff that I always thought, growing up, that successful
parents had.”  Hans Kullberg, 27, a trader at Wyckoff, New Jersey-based
hedge fund Falcon Management Corp. who said he earns about
$150,000 a year, is adjusting his sights, too.  After graduating from the Wharton School of the University
of Pennsylvania in 2006, he spent a $10,000 signing bonus from
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  on a six-week trip to South America. He worked on
an emerging-markets team at the bank that traded and marketed
synthetic collateralized debt obligations.  Wet T-Shirt  His tastes for travel got “a little bit more lavish,” he
said. Kullberg, a triathlete, went to a bachelor party in Las
Vegas in January after renting a four-bedroom ski cabin at Bear
Mountain in California as a Christmas gift to his parents. He
went to Ibiza for another bachelor party in August, spending
$3,000 on a three-day trip, including a 15-minute ride from the
airport that cost $100. In May he spent 10 days in  India .  Earlier this month, a friend invited him on a trip to  Mardi
Gras  in  New Orleans . The friend was going to be a judge in a wet
T-shirt contest, Kullberg said. He turned down the offer.  It wouldn’t have been “the most financially prudent thing
to do,” he said. “I’m not totally sure about what I’m going to
get paid this year, how I’m going to be doing.”  He thinks more about the long term, he said, and plans to
buy a foreclosed two-bedroom house in Charlotte,  North Carolina ,
for $50,000 next month.  M. Todd Henderson, a University of Chicago law professor
who’s teaching a seminar on executive compensation, said the
suffering is relative and real. He wrote two years ago that his
family was “just getting by” on more than $250,000 a year,
setting off what he called a  firestorm  of criticism.  “Yes, terminal diseases are worse than getting the flu,”
he said. “But you suffer when you get the flu.”  ‘Have to Cut’  Dlugash, the accountant, said he’s spending more time
talking with Wall Street clients about their expenses.  “You don’t necessarily have to cut that -- but if you
don’t cut that, then you’ve got to cut this,” he said. “They
say, ‘But I can’t.’ And I say, ‘But you must.’”  One banker who owes Dlugash $20,000 gained the accountant’s
sympathy despite his six-figure pay.  “If you’re making $50,000 and your salary gets down to
$40,000 and you have to cut, it’s very severe to you,” Dlugash
said. “But it’s no less severe to these other people with these
big numbers.”  A Wall Street executive who made 10 times that amount and
now has declining income along with a divorce, private school
tuitions and elderly parents also suffers, he said.  “These people never dreamed they’d be making $500,000 a
year,” he said, “and dreamed even less that they’d be broke.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 