-- Wedbush Opens Trading Business Unit for Investment Managers
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-02-29T17:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/wedbush-securities-opens-trading-business-unit-for-investment-managers.html
Wedbush Securities Inc., an
investment bank founded in 1955 whose clients include dozens of
high-frequency traders, created a group to give asset managers
faster access to markets, according to a company executive.  The Los Angeles-based company introduced a new  business
unit  called the Execution Solutions Group to deliver trading
technology to investment managers buying and selling directly in
the markets, Jeff Bell, an executive vice president at Wedbush
Securities, which has about 900 of parent company Wedbush Inc.’s
approximately 1,000 employees, said in a phone interview. The
system has about 10 institutional clients, including some of the
bank’s legacy customers, he said.  “We’re taking a high-frequency trading infrastructure used
by automatic, systematic traders and opening that up to
institutions” on what’s traditionally called the buy side,
which includes  hedge funds , mutual funds and asset managers,
Bell said. “That’s a common complaint among the buy side and
critics of high-frequency trading -- that these guys have
capabilities that aren’t available to institutions.”  Trading rapidly has become more important as orders have
spread out across 13 U.S. equities exchanges, several
alternative venues and a few dozen private broker-run markets.
Regulatory changes since the mid-1990s spurred competition and
led exchanges to become more electronic, with orders dispersed
across venues instead of centralized on the New York Stock
Exchange or handled by dealers on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Wedbush was the third-largest provider of orders on Nasdaq
last month for that exchange’s listed companies, after Morgan
Stanley in  New York  and Bank of America Corp. in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina , according to data  published  by Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. From July 2010 through June 2011 it was the number-one
provider of liquidity for Nasdaq companies, the data show.  Equities Volume  About 55 percent of U.S. equities volume comes from firms
using high-frequency or computer-driven trading strategies,  Adam Sussman , a partner and director of research at Tabb Group LLC in
New York, said in December. Wedbush estimated last August that
about 75 percent of equities volume came from automated firms in
the first third of that month when the  Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index (VIS) , or VIX, climbed to an average of
32.69 and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 13 percent.  The VIX’s average over the past 10 years is 21.84, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The gauge measures the cost of using
options as insurance against declines in the  S&P 500 .  Lime’s Technology  Wedbush will use technology from Lime Brokerage LLC, a
platform it bought last June that offers execution services to
almost 90 automated traders including those employing high-
frequency strategies to profit from price differences or
anomalies in the market. Bell, who runs the clearing business at
Wedbush Securities, which processes transactions for about 140
firms including about 40 high-frequency or automated trading
firms, is also chief executive officer of Lime, an affiliate
owned by the parent company.  Asset managers sending orders through the Execution
Solutions Group will use the firm’s high-speed trading servers,
market data and network that relays orders to exchanges or other
venues, Bell said. He declined to predict how many clients the
unit may have by the end of the year.  Customers using Wedbush’s new execution services offering
can pay for it through a traditional per-share fee or on a cost-
plus basis that allows a lower payment per share while passing
on the trading fees that exchanges charge and the rebates they
provide to those supplying bids and offers, Bell said.  Keeping Rebates  The cost-plus service allows hedge funds and other clients
to keep the rebates their orders generate on exchanges when they
wait passively for trades and pay when they grab orders others
have provided to the market at specified prices, Bell said.
Users of the service must pay the fees and get the credits they
qualify for themselves on exchanges that have tiered pricing
based on volume, Bell said.  “Trading would be fairer if the execution costs of brokers
could be directly passed on to customers,” Justin Schack,
managing director for market structure analysis at  New York- 
based Rosenblatt Securities Inc., said in a phone interview.
“That’s a real source of conflicts of interest.”  The conflicts result because brokers have choices about how
to execute customers’ orders and where to send buy or sell
requests, Schack said.  Order Routing  While they have an obligation to get clients the most
advantageous overall transaction based on existing market
conditions, brokers whose systems decide where to send pieces of
larger orders may consider factors including price, the number
of available shares, stock volatility, the fee or rebate for
trading on a particular venue, and the likelihood of getting an
execution. They may also take into account how the stock price
reacts to their trading on particular venues.  Earning a rebate or paying a lower fee may influence some
brokers’ routing choices, just as partial ownership of an
exchange may affect the decision to convey orders to particular
markets, Schack said.  Pricing  is one of the main ways stock
exchanges compete for orders from brokers as they seek to
increase their share of trading in a U.S. stock market that has
fragmented into as many as 50 different venues.  Customers that trade a lot can also pay Wedbush Securities
a fixed amount every month and buy and sell as much as they
want, Bell said. He declined to say how much the broker charges.  “These are meaningful changes,” Bell said about Wedbush’s
pricing plans for asset managers. “A lot of these execution
services have become commoditized and pricing at some brokers is
not very client-friendly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 