-- Wells Fargo, Santander Said to Vie for Chrysler Car Loans
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-02-29T15:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/wells-fargo-santander-said-to-vie-for-chrysler-car-loans.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Santander
Holdings USA Inc. have joined banks vying to oust Ally Financial
Corp. as Chrysler Group LLC’s preferred auto lender, according
to three people with knowledge of the bidding.  General Electric Capital Corp., U.S. Bancorp,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Ally also are negotiating with Chrysler, which
generates more than $25 billion in auto loans annually, said the 
people, who declined to be identified because the process is 
private. Chrysler may use a multi-bank approach where two or 
three lenders take pieces of the financing work from Ally, one 
of these people said.  “We’re talking to a variety of providers of funding,”
Sergio Marchionne, Chrysler’s chief executive officer, said in
an interview in Brussels, declining to name any banks. “We
haven’t made a final determination as to who’s going to be with
us and whether effectively it’s going to be more than one party.
We have received a number of expressions of interest from
financial institutions.”  At stake for Ally, the bailed-out bank controlled by the
U.S. government, is a direct tie to Chrysler’s dealers and
customers that expires in April 2013. Losing the contract could
set back efforts to salvage the government’s $17.2 billion
investment in Ally, which took public bailout money during the
credit crisis as losses mounted on subprime home loans.  Two Routes  Chrysler, the third-largest U.S. automaker, told banks they
can submit two bids: one to form a joint venture that covers
“captive” finance business such as dealer financing, and the
second for Chrysler-branded auto loans, said one of the people.  Some banks want to handle just leasing or corporate fleet
sales while others are more interested in financing for dealers
that helps them buy vehicles for their lots, one person said.
U.S. Bancorp is willing to offer Chrysler-branded loans, said a
person familiar with the talks.  GE Capital  is interested in
working with Chrysler on commercial leasing and fleet financing,
one person familiar with its negotiations said.  Banks expect to begin hearing back from Chrysler in the
next few days, said one of the people. The company is based in
 Auburn Hills ,  Michigan , and also received U.S. financial
assistance.  Chrysler is looking to form a joint venture with a lender
that would be similar to the arrangement its majority owner  Fiat
SpA (F)  has with  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  in  Europe . The automaker wants a
partner with loan-servicing operations and presence in retail
banking, and will consider candidates based in part on their
credit rating and ability to cheaply raise capital, according to
two people.  Fiat Joint Venture  Ally is rated below  investment grade  and people with
knowledge of the matter have said the firm is debating
bankruptcy for its Residential Capital mortgage unit.  Fiat, which owns 58.5 percent of Chrysler, has an
arrangement with  France ’s  Credit Agricole  dating from 2006. A
so-called captive-finance business can set credit policies that
help dealers get funding to buy vehicles for inventory and
provide more attractive rates for consumers.  Chrysler has one year to notify Detroit-based Ally if the
carmaker doesn’t wish to continue their contract, which
otherwise renews automatically for one-year terms, according to
regulatory filings. The preferred-lender arrangement guarantees
minimum thresholds for subvented loans, which are made to
consumers at below-market rates. Carmakers pay lenders to make
up the difference.  Restructuring Effort  Gualberto Ranieri, a spokesman for Chrysler, said he
couldn’t comment, as did Ally’s Gina Proia, New York-based
JPMorgan’s Steve O’Halloran, Caren Roberson at San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo, Minneapolis-based  U.S. Bancorp (USB) ’s Tom Joyce
and  Russell Wilkerson  at GE Capital.  Laurie Kight, a spokeswoman for Santander, declined to
comment on any talks with Chrysler. Kight said the bank has
helped Chrysler and its dealers with subprime financing since
2010. “This has been a successful arrangement that we look
forward to continuing,” she said via e-mail.  Ally has enlisted Cerberus Capital Management LP’s Lenard Tessler to help oversee turnaround efforts and salvage the
government’s investment, four people with knowledge of the
matter said this month. The U.S. rescued the lender, formerly
known as GMAC, with bailouts starting in 2008 to help stabilize
the  auto industry . Ally is counting on an initial public
offering to repay the government, which owns a 74 percent stake.  Tessler’s assignment follows a U.S. suggestion this month
that the lender name someone to help restructure money-losing
ResCap and get Ally’s stock offering back on course, according
to the people, who asked for anonymity because the discussions
were private.  Stalled Offering  Ally CEO Michael Carpenter, who once predicted that an IPO
could value the company at $30 billion, said this month the sale
won’t happen until there’s progress on the mortgage unit. Once
ranked among the largest originators of subprime and Alt-A
mortgages, ResCap reported more than $14.5 billion in losses
from the start of 2007 to the end of 2009.  Chrysler has set up lending arrangements in recent years
with lenders other than Ally. JPMorgan’s Chase Auto Finance
began providing retail subvention financing to some Chrysler,
Jeep, Dodge and Ram dealers for prime and near-prime customers
in August, according to a  statement . The bank, ranked No. 1 by
assets in the U.S., added Fiat dealers the following month,
according to a separate  statement .  Wells Fargo  Wells Fargo, the nation’s biggest home lender, was the top
U.S. used-car lender through the third quarter of 2011,
according to a Dec. 6 investor presentation given by CEO  John Stumpf . While total auto loan originations in its core portfolio
rose 11 percent in 2011, they fell 6 percent between the third
and fourth quarters, according to a fourth-quarter earnings
presentation. The company held about $44.6 billion in auto loans
at the end of 2011.  U.S. Bancorp, ranked sixth by deposits, and Chrysler said
in  September 2010  that they reached an agreement to offer
leases, giving the automaker an option in addition to Ally.  Chrysler is a more attractive partner for lenders after a
government-backed restructuring led by  Sergio Marchionne , CEO of
both Chrysler and Fiat. Chrysler last year had net income of
$183 million, its first annual profit since its 2009 bankruptcy.  The automaker’s U.S. sales increased 26 percent last year
to 1.37 million, according to  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based
researcher Autodata Corp. Chrysler’s U.S. sales rose 44 percent
in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net 
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 