-- Wheat Futures Fall as U.S. Northern Plains Snow May Boost Crop Outlook
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-02-29T20:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/wheat-futures-fall-as-u-s-northern-plains-snow-may-boost-crop-outlook.html
Wheat futures slid from a four-week
high on speculation that winter storms in the northern U.S. will
boost soil moisture before farmers begin planting spring crops
in the next two months.  Storms in the past two days brought as much as 8 inches (20
centimeters) of  snow  to parts of  North Dakota , the biggest U.S.
grower of spring wheat, while accumulations reached 12 inches in
 Minnesota , according to the  National Weather Service . Conditions
in the two states ranged from “severe”  drought  to “abnormally
dry” as of Feb. 21, after months of below-normal precipitation,
according to the University of  Nebraska  at Lincoln.  “Moisture this time of year is good,” Dan Kuechenmeister,
the manager of the commodity department at RBC Wealth Management
in  Minneapolis , said in a telephone interview. “It’s a good,
wet, heavy snow, so even if it gets windy, it shouldn’t blow
around too much. It’ll get a chance to settle in, and hopefully
soak into the ground.”  Wheat futures for May delivery fell 0.25 cent to settle at
$6.68 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Earlier, the price reached $6.745, the highest for a most-active
contract since Feb. 1. The commodity, little changed this month,
is down 18 percent in the past year on rising global supplies.  Hedge  funds  and other large speculators were net-short
57,266 wheat futures and options contracts as of Feb. 21, the
biggest bearish position since at least 2006, U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data show.  Wheat futures rose as much as 0.9 percent today before
retreating, signaling funds may be buying contracts to close out
short positions after prices touched a four-week low last week,
said Jamey Kohake, a broker at Paragon Investments.  “The wheat market got a little bit overextended to the
downside, with record short positions,” he said by telephone
from Silver Lake,  Kansas . “We’re starting to see that shift.”  Wheat is the fourth-largest U.S. crop, valued at $14.4
billion in 2011, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  