-- Yahoo, Microsoft, Motorola Mobility: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-02-29T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/yahoo-microsoft-motorola-mobility-intellectual-property.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  asked  Facebook Inc. (FB)  to
license technologies covered by its  intellectual property  and
threatened to take legal action if the companies don’t reach an
agreement.  “We must insist that Facebook either enter into a
licensing agreement or we will be compelled to move forward
unilaterally to protect our rights,” Sunnyvale, California-
based Yahoo said Feb. 27 in an e-mailed statement.  Yahoo, the largest U.S. Internet portal, is looking for
ways to revive growth after losing ground to Facebook in the
display-advertising market and trailing Google Inc. in Web
searches. Yahoo said it has made “substantial” investments in
innovation and that other companies have already agreed to
license those technologies.  Yahoo’s statement was previously reported by the New York
Times.  Facebook, the world’s largest social-networking service,
hasn’t yet been able to “fully evaluate” Yahoo’s claims, said
Larry Yu, a spokesman for the  Menlo Park , California-based
company.  “Yahoo contacted us at the same time they called the New
York Times,” Yu said.  Facebook, which has grappled with lawsuits over
intellectual property in the past, faces potential threats from
other large companies that have patents on social-networking
technologies.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest e-commerce
company, owns certain social-networking patents that predate
Facebook by seven years, according to M-Cam Inc., a patent
advisory service.  “As we’ve seen over the past few years in the mobile
device field, patent assertion can ultimately lead to blocking
the sale of a product, or, at the very least, an innovation
tariff that drags down earnings,” according to a report by M-
Cam. “That’s only if Amazon wants to play hardball.”  Mary Osako, a spokeswoman for Seattle-based Amazon,
declined to comment.  Yahoo didn’t identify companies that license its technology
or elaborate on which intellectual property is the subject of
the discussions with Facebook.  EU to Examine Apple, Microsoft Complaints Over Motorola Mobility  Complaints by Apple Inc. and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  against
 Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  will be examined “closely” by
European Union regulators, the region’s antitrust chief said.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition commissioner, said
competition policy must ensure essential patents aren’t “used
strategically to block competitors,” according to a speech at
the European Parliament in Brussels yesterday.  Samsung Electronics Co. is facing an EU antitrust probe
into its licensing of patents to other mobile-phone
manufacturers. Samsung, Motorola Mobility, Microsoft and Apple
are involved in litigation across  Europe  as demand for
smartphones and tablets soars.  Google Inc., which is buying Motorola Mobility for $12.5
billion, has written to groups that establish industry standards
to assure them it will fairly license the Libertyville,
Illinois-based company’s patents.  “To build a modern smart phone one needs thousands of
standard-essential patents,” Almunia said. “Any company that
holds these patents can effectively hold up the entire industry
with the threat of banning the products of competitors from the
market. This sort of hold-up is not acceptable.”  EU antitrust regulators are separately investigating claims
Google discriminated against other services in its search
results and stopped some websites from accepting rival ads.
Microsoft and shopping-comparison site  Foundem  are among
companies that asked the agency to examine the  Mountain View ,
California-based search-engine firm’s practices.  Almunia said he expected investigators to give him a report
on Google before the end of April and would decide after that if
a formal antitrust complaint was needed.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, declined to
comment.  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission, which is examining
whether Google gives preference to its own services in search
results, is expanding its antitrust probe to include scrutiny of
Google+, according to two people familiar with the situation.  Motorola Mobility Says Apple Ruling Vindicates License Rights  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  said a German appeals court
that granted  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  a temporary ruling blocking the
enforcement of a patent verdict shows that inventors should be
paid for their innovations.  “Motorola Mobility’s determination to collect fair
compensation for Apple’s use of patented technology has been
vindicated by” the court, Motorola Mobility said in an e-mailed
statement.  Apple won the German appeals court ruling Feb. 27 at the
Higher Regional Court of Karlsruhe,  Germany . Motorola Mobility,
which forced Apple to remove some iPad and iPhone models from
its German online store for a short period, can’t enforce the
verdict during an appeal, the court said.  Ericsson Turns to Mobile Wallet Amid Short-Term Uncertainty  Ericsson AB, the world’s largest maker of wireless-
networking equipment, is making a new push into services such as
money transfers over handsets, as short-term uncertainties weigh
on the growth of its traditional business, Chief Executive
Officer Hans Vestberg said in an interview.  Ericsson, which makes about 37 percent of its revenue
through services, said Feb. 27 at the  Mobile World Congress  in
Barcelona that it teamed up with  Western Union Co. (WU)  to grab a
share of the $800 billion worth of ‘m-commerce’ it estimates
will be recorded by 2016. Such transactions allow customers to
use their prepaid phone credit to pay for purchases on handsets.  “In the long term, the fundamentals are definitely
there,” Vestberg said of the growth drivers in the network-
equipment market. “In the short term, decisions may depend on
what carriers see in the environment around them.”  Ericsson wants to develop new products and services
internally, Vestberg said. “Our priority is organic growth,”
he said. Asked whether he was looking to buy patents from
 Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , the photography pioneer that filed for
 bankruptcy protection  this year, Vestberg said he wasn’t looking
to acquire more patents.  “We have 30,000 patents,” the CEO said. “We have the
most patents in 2G, 3G and 4G in the industry and we’re very
happy with that portfolio. We’re not looking to get more.”  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Madonna Did or Didn’t Change Song Title After ‘Girls’ Complaint  Joe Francis, whose  Santa Monica , California-based company
produces the “ Girls Gone Wild ” series of adult films, said pop
singer Madonna backed down from the use of his trademark.  Madonna and her record label changed a song title and
lyrics to “Girl Gone Wild” from “Girls Gone Wild,” Francis
said in a Feb. 27  statement .  “Clearly her label was trying to avoid legal action
surrounding the song,” Francis said.  Counsel for Francis sent Madonna a  cease-and desist letter 
Feb. 3, claiming that any use of “Girls Gone Wild” infringed,
and accusing the performer of attempting to “free ride” on the
“valuable consumer goodwill and brand recognition” associated
with the filmmaker’s mark. The letter claimed that Madonna made
unauthorized use of the mark “to lure potential consumers to
purchase her latest musical effort.”  The TMZ.com celebrity-gossip website  reported  that
Madonna’s manager, Guy Oseary, said the singer never received
the letter and that the song’s name change had nothing to do
with the film company’s mark. He told TMZ that the title of the
song was changed because Madonna uses the singular form --
“girl” -- when she sings the lyrics.  Game Company Says ‘Joustin’ Beaver’ Doesn’t Infringe Bieber  RC3 Inc. , a Florida-based maker of video games, has asked a
federal court in Jacksonville,  Florida , to declare it doesn’t
infringe trademarks related to teenaged pop idol  Justin Bieber .  The case is related to RC3’s “Joustin’ Beaver” video game
app, that the company said was created “in an effort to comment
upon” Bieber’s life. The game is a parody of the young
performer’s commercial success, according to court papers,
portraying the teen sensation as a beaver with a haircut like
the singer’s floating on a log down a river. The beaver signs
“otter-graphs,” and is harassed by “Phot-Hogs,” in the
course of the game.  RC3 said that despite the fact that it had numerous
conversations with counsel for Bieber, it received a cease-and
desist letter Feb. 13. The letter, which is included in the case
file, demanded that the “ Joustin’ Beaver ” game be removed from
Apple Inc.’s iTunes and any other site selling mobile device
applications.  In the latter, Aaron D. Rosenberg of Los Angeles-based
 Myman Greenspan Fineman Fox Rosenberg & Light LLP  warned that
Bieber had “instructed us to take any and all legal action
necessary” in order to protect his IP rights.  The company said it fears being sued for infringement, and
claims the game is a parody permissible under trademark law.  It asked the court to declare its game doesn’t infringe and
seeks awards of attorney fees a litigation costs.  The company is represented by  Bradley Sopotnick  of
Jacksonville, Florida’s  McGrath Gibson LLP .  The case is RC3 Inc., v. Justin Bieber, 3:12-cv-00193-RBD-
TEM, U.S. District Court, Middle District of Florida
(Jacksonville).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  YouTube Video Subject of Infringement Complaint Over Birdsong
     Rumblefish Inc. , a Portland, Oregon-based licensor of music
and sound content, accused the amateur maker of a video posted
on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube video-sharing website of infringing the
copyright for a recording of wild birdsong,  Australia ’s Herald
Sun newspaper  reported .  The video maker, known on YouTube as “ eeplox ,” posted a
clip of himself foraging for and eating wild salad greens while
wild birds tweet in the background, according to the newspaper.  He said he was told by YouTube that Rumblefish accused him
of copyright infringement, claiming he was using one of the
company’s recorded birdsong tracks in the background, the Herald
Sun reported.  Rumblefish backed down, according to the Herald Sun, saying
the infringement claim was made by mistake because YouTube
identified a song in the music company’s catalog “improperly.”  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Sinovel Seeks $17 Million From AMSC in Arbitration  Sinovel Wind Group Co. (601558) ’s complaint against  American
Superconductor Corp. (AMSC)  claiming it was sold substandard parts will
be heard by the Beijing Arbitration Committee.  Sinovel,  China ’s largest wind-turbine maker, is seeking 105
million yuan ($17 million) plus fees for eight turbine-control
units delivered in 2008 that it claims were substandard, the
Beijing-based company said in a filing with the  Shanghai Stock
Exchange  yesterday.  Profits may be reduced as a result of the arbitration case,
the company said.  American Superconductor is suing Sinovel in Chinese courts,
seeking more than $1.2 billion in damages for allegedly stealing
intellectual property and violating sales contracts. Before the
suit, Sinovel was the Devens, Massachusetts-based company’s
largest customer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 