-- Yelp’s IPO Puts Consumer-Review Site in Front of Own Critics
-- B y   A n j e l i c a   T a n   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-02-29T17:54:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/yelp-ipo-puts-review-site-in-front-of-own-critics-as-investors-weigh-value.html
Yelp Inc. (YELP) , the site that lets users
review everything from diners to dentists, is about to face its
own critics: investors.  The company is holding its initial public offering this
week, putting its business under the microscope as Google Inc.
and Facebook Inc. push deeper into the local advertising market,
its main source of revenue. The IPO is set to raise as much as
$100 million, which would value Yelp at about $838 million.  Yelp will have to convince shareholders it can ward off
competition from larger rivals to justify a price that values it
at up to 10 times annual sales, twice as much as Google. While
enthusiasm for Internet offerings may boost Yelp in its first
day, the company may lose momentum if investors gravitate to
contenders with larger customer bases and more cash for
expansion, said Huntington Asset Advisors’  Peter Sorrentino .  “I’m still a little troubled by the ad-driven model,” the
 money manager  said of Yelp. “If you’re an investor, you could
find yourself in the crosshairs of a pretty well-funded, pretty
savvy competitor.” His firm oversees $14.5 billion.  Web portal  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  already operates a  local  page that
includes reviews in categories also covered by Yelp. Google, the
world’s most popular search engine, aims to boost its local
appeal with last year’s purchase of Zagat Survey LLC, the
publisher of the burgundy restaurant guides for cities like  New
York  and  London . Google traded at about 5.3 times sales as of
yesterday.  Facebook Threat  Facebook, which filed for the largest Internet IPO on
record this month, also poses a threat. More small and medium-
sized businesses are setting up fan pages and buying ads to
promote themselves on the social-networking site, said IDC’s
Karsten Weide.  “Local advertising is an interesting segment because it’s
developing very fast,” said the  San Mateo , California-based
analyst. “Facebook will attract a lot of  revenue  from those
small and medium local advertisers.”  To gain heft, Yelp began expanding beyond its U.S. home
turf in 2009, eventually developing sites in cities such as
London and Toronto. Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Stoppelman, a
co-founder of the company, is hiring an international sales
force this year as Yelp looks to start selling ads overseas,
diversifying its revenue base, according to the prospectus.  “It’s a strong management team,”  Dixon Doll , co-founder
of venture-capital firm DCM Inc., told Betty Liu on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” today. “They have a lot of upside
potential in the international markets.”  Sales Growth  Revenue rose 74 percent to $83.3 million last year, with
local ads accounting for 70 percent of that and brand
advertising making up most of the rest. The company hasn’t
posted a  profit  since at least 2007, according to the
prospectus.  Yelp and the Yelp Foundation, the only selling stockholder,
are offering 7.15 million shares at $12 to $14 each, a
regulatory  filing  shows. The proceeds of the IPO will go toward
general corporate purposes and expanding Yelp’s financial
flexibility, according to the filing.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is leading the offering, which
Citigroup Inc. and Jefferies Group Inc. also are working on.
Chantelle Karl, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Yelp,
declined to comment.  Yelp’s valuation could exceed the top end of the range
because the company has established itself as a leader in
reviews, said Anupam Palit, a senior equity analyst at New York-
based GreenCrest Capital Management LLC.  Stock Environment  “The thing that Yelp did very differently from everyone
else is they kind of built themselves as a social platform from
day one,” Palit said. Yelp throws parties for top reviewers in
cities across the U.S., giving a social incentive for
descriptive and honest reviews, said Palit.  The company’s biggest investors, including Stoppelman,
aren’t selling shares in the offering. The former PayPal Inc.
executive will hold about 11 percent of the voting power in Yelp
following the share sale. Bessemer Venture Partners and
Elevation Partners will each have about 22 percent.  Yelp is one of a handful of companies that have scheduled
U.S. IPOs in the next month as the stock market continues to
climb. Yesterday the  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index advanced to the
highest level since 2008, bolstered by improving economic
prospects globally.  Trading Landscape  While Internet IPOs of last year such as Groupon Inc. and
Pandora Media Inc. have fallen below their highs, LinkedIn Corp.
and  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the social-gaming company partnered with
Facebook, had both risen more than 20 percent this month through
yesterday.  “If they come to market in early March with a good stock
market like we have today, then I suspect this thing will trade
pretty well,”  Paul Sweeney , an analyst at Princeton, New
Jersey-based Bloomberg Industries, said of Yelp.  Still, investors are going to be more cautious this year
than last, according to GreenCrest Capital’s Palit.  “If Yelp had IPO’d last summer I think the premium could
have been potentially a lot higher,” Palit said. “But they
needed to get their business a little higher up and running.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anjelica Tan in New York at 
 atan224@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  