-- Zwirn’s Fall From Hedge Fund Glory a Horror Story of Doing the Right Thing
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-02-29T21:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-29/zwirn-s-fall-from-hedge-fund-glory-a-horror-story-of-doing-the-right-thing.html
On the lengthy list of things Dan Zwirn has lost, a few items jump out. There’s the $17 million
condo on Central Park South, the summer place in Quogue,  New
York , and the $18 million Gulfstream IV jet. Then there’s D.B.
Zwirn & Co., the hedge fund that once managed $12 billion in
assets, employed 275 people in 14 global offices, and created
the roughly $700 million in personal wealth that made so many of
Zwirn’s spectacular purchases possible. Zwirn, 40, misses his
money and the things it afforded him. But what he misses most,
he said, is his “beautiful machine.”  That’s Zwirn’s term of endearment for his now-defunct hedge
fund. The beautiful thing about it was its discipline. D.B.
Zwirn abstained from the directional or leveraged bets that
other hedge funds make. Instead the firm provided capital to
about a thousand companies with few other financing options --
companies such as a small New York-based Spanish-language radio
group and a company that leased slot machines to casinos on
Indian reservations. The one and only strategy was to learn
everything about the prospective borrowers, figure their odds of
repayment, crank up the  interest rate  to the proper pain point
and grind out 1 percent a month in profits, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its March 5 edition.  For 49 straight months, Zwirn, who aspired to be the hedge
fund world’s scrappy singles hitter, got paid like a home run
champ. The D.B. Zwirn Special Opportunities Fund had gross
returns of 21.8 percent in 2003, 21.6 percent in 2004, 18.9
percent in 2005, 24 percent in 2006, and 16 percent in 2007. As
machines go, Zwirn’s was a Ferrari. (Fortress Investment Group
LLC took over the management of D.B. Zwirn’s investments in 2009
and hasn’t made returns publicly available.)  Kafkaesque Fight  Seated behind the desk in his personal office in midtown
 Manhattan , Zwirn, who’s built with the compact force of a small
linebacker, reaches for what have become the most prized
possessions of his new life: two Lucite tombstones. They could
be from any number of deals he did in his early career as an
investment banker and private equity investor. Instead, each
contains a replica of a letter from the Securities and Exchange
Commission. The first, dated Feb. 23, 2011, absolves Zwirn --
after a four-year investigation -- of any personal blame for the
implosion of his firm. The second, dated April 7, 2011, clears
D.B. Zwirn of any wrongdoing. This past summer, Zwirn settled
most of the outstanding civil litigation against him. “For the
first time in five years, I have not been thinking of
catastrophic personal downside,” he says, managing a faint
smile.  After a Kafkaesque fight with his firm’s auditors,
PricewaterhouseCoopers, and the SEC, Zwirn said the tombstones
give him hard-won proof of his innocence. What the letters can’t
restore are his firm or the roughly 98.6 percent of his fortune
that vanished over the past five years. They also don’t say that
he’s without his share of responsibility.  Gulfstream Loan  In April 2005, Zwirn decided he needed a Gulfstream IV. He
was 33 and the boss of a rapidly growing global financial
behemoth. He didn’t ask anyone’s permission. He just gave the
order, and it fell to Harold Kahn, the fund’s chief operating
officer, to arrange the financing.  Merrill Lynch agreed to provide 90 percent of the $18
million purchase price on a non-recourse basis and required only
a $1.9 million letter of credit from Zwirn’s management company
to close the deal. Citibank initially agreed to provide the
letter of credit; after a series of delays in obtaining the Citi
loan, Zwirn still needed $3.8 million in September 2005
(including cash collateral) to meet what Merrill required to get
the jet. For a firm the size of D.B. Zwirn, it was a tiny sum.
Zwirn could have just written a check, but that’s not
particularly creative or cost-effective for a specialist in the
art of using other people’s money. In any event, Zwirn says he
was not aware that difficulties had emerged in getting the final
piece of financing.  Triple Major  To close the deal, Kahn sent e-mails to Perry Gruss,
Zwirn’s chief financial officer, and an accountant at the firm
named Li Anne Law. Gruss authorized that almost $1.8 million be
taken from the firm’s domestic hedge fund and about $2 million
from a $500 million account managed by Zwirn for Highbridge
Capital Management. Zwirn got his jet. He says he didn’t know or
ask about how it was paid for.  Zwirn grew up in the Pittsburgh suburb of Mt. Lebanon, the
only child of a hospital accountant father and a mother who was
a teacher with a Ph.D. in literature. In 1993 he graduated from
the University of Pennsylvania’s dual-degree program with a B.S.
in computer science and a triple-major in accounting, finance,
and corporate control from the Wharton School. He then headed to
Wall Street. (Zwirn and I worked together on a few deals at
Lazard Frères between 1993 and 1995.) After getting an MBA at
 Harvard Business School  in 1998, Zwirn used a connection with a
Lazard partner to get a job at the hedge fund Davidson Kempner
Capital Management. He bounced from fund to fund before
partnering with hedge-fund mogul  Glenn Dubin  at Highbridge
Capital, later acquired by JPMorgan Chase. In 2004, Highbridge
spun Zwirn out with his own fund to manage.  ‘Rare Ability’  Like many people who live at the nexus of complex math and
high risk, Zwirn is disarmingly intense and, by common acclaim,
brilliant. “Dan has the rare ability to see the next asset
class to invest in much sooner than others,” said Anthony
Gellert, founder of Livingston Capital, who worked with Zwirn at
Lazard. “He has the ability to see around corners. I know
that’s a cliché, but it’s absolutely true.”  What he’s not is detail-oriented about such things as the
back-office operation of his business. Zwirn saw himself at the
wheel of the Ferrari; he hired other people to work under the
hood.  Hiring Gruss  One of those people was Perry Gruss. A graduate of SUNY
Oneonta in upstate New York, Gruss, now 44, worked for more than
a decade at Nomura Securities in New York in its distressed debt
and real estate businesses. In early 2002, when Zwirn was still
part of Highbridge but doing his own investing, he hired Gruss
to be his fund’s CFO. Near the end of 2003, Gruss was being
recruited by Wachovia to be chief financial officer of a 1,000-
person division. Zwirn and Highbridge persuaded him to stay.  “Every data point was that his old colleagues loved him,”
Zwirn said. “He was a big kind of EQ type of guy.”  Gruss completed the purchase of Zwirn’s jet quietly. By
Nov. 10, 2005, the delayed Citibank loan had closed, allowing
Gruss to repay what he’d borrowed from the Highbridge account
and the domestic fund.  The jet was a relatively simple transaction, but D.B. Zwirn
was an increasingly complicated operation. Zwirn started his
firm with $500 million under management in 2004. Within a few
years he had $5 billion. “Dan had a core group of people who
were competent for a $500 million firm but not necessarily for a
$5 billion firm,” said Lawrence Cutler, who joined D.B. Zwirn
as chief compliance officer in 2005 and continues to work part-
time for what remains of the Zwirn management company. “Within
a few months of being spun off from Highbridge, Dan upgraded the
senior staff and brought in a number of experienced people to
overhaul the firm’s infrastructure.”  SEC Registration  It was already too late. In a shift in federal policy, all
hedge funds were required to register with the SEC by February
2006. As D.B. Zwirn prepared to file, all sorts of improper
paperwork surfaced, including the financing documents for the G
IV. According to court documents, Tim Wong, who had been hired
as the firm’s controller in December 2005, told Cutler and
general counsel David Proshan that he noticed money from the
domestic fund and the Highbridge managed account “had been
improperly used to finance the purchase” of the plane. The
funds had been repaid after a month, but without interest, and
management fees had been taken earlier than contractually
agreed—a violation of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.  ‘Inadvertent Mistakes’  At first, Cutler was unconcerned. “I’ve seen or heard of
inadvertent mistakes in the industry frequently over the
years,” he said. “Errors occur, and they are corrected, and as
long as they don’t continue, things are OK.” Cutler said he
asked: “We’re not doing this anymore, correct?” He was told
the firm was not. Cutler then asked Wong to get all the
documentation for the transfers so he could figure out whether
the mistake needed to be disclosed to investors and the SEC.
Cutler also alerted the hedge fund’s outside counsel, Schulte
Roth & Zabel.  When Cutler first arrived at D.B. Zwirn, the firm didn’t
have a unified record of the bank accounts, the signatory
authorities, or of who owed what money to whom. Cutler says he
advised the team: “You can’t keep opening up new funds. We’ve
got to get this cleaned up.”  When Cutler, Kahn, and Gruss briefed Zwirn, the CEO agreed
to ease up. “It will be the summer of digestion,” Zwirn said,
coining a phrase that spread around the firm to explain the
slowdown in activity. In the meantime, Zwirn asked Schulte Roth
& Zabel to investigate the financing of the G IV. Zwirn says he
expected they’d find “some sort of clerical issue” and that he
“wanted to make sure it was dealt with in as draconian a manner
as possible to set an example for other young guys.”  ‘Heart Attack Moment’  In September 2006, Schulte reported the findings of its
four-month, $2 million investigation to Zwirn, Cutler, and other
senior executives in a tense Sunday evening meeting. Gruss was
excluded, which should have been a signal to Zwirn of what was
about to take place. But the meeting was two days before the
birth of his first son and, Zwirn said, “in my mind I was
thinking I’m going to see a 24-year-old who screwed something
up.”  Instead, Zwirn had a “heart attack moment.” He learned
that Gruss had arranged for the improper use of funds to finance
the purchase of the jet. Among other things, he’d also taken
management fees from investors before they were due and had
borrowed money—without interest paid or documentation—from
Zwirn’s overseas fund to make it possible to do more deals in
the domestic fund. Gruss had thrown sand into the gears of the
beautiful machine, and Zwirn had no idea.  ‘Now I’m Terrified’  “In the six weeks after that day, I lost 18 pounds,”
Zwirn said. “I’m not saying I didn’t need to, but not that
way.” His mind raced back to Martin Mayer’s Nightmare on  Wall
Street , the 1993 book about Salomon Brothers CEO John
Gutfreund’s failure to report the 1991 scandal involving the
firm’s trading in  Treasury securities . “Now I’m terrified,”
Zwirn recalls.  He decided at that moment to tell the SEC everything he’d
just discovered. It was the right thing to do, and Zwirn also
hoped that by self-reporting he could take advantage of an
emerging legal precedent based on a case involving Seaboard
Corp. in which firms that voluntarily admitted to wrongdoing
could get swifter and more favorable treatment from the SEC. But
Zwirn’s decision turned out to have numerous unforeseen
consequences. Frank Goldstein, a lawyer familiar with Seaboard
at Severn, O’Connor & Kresslein in Frederick,  Maryland , urges
companies to have sensible expectations when self-reporting.
“It’s still a good way to go, but it doesn’t work all the time
and it can kill you in terms of timing,” Goldstein says. “It’s
not a panacea.”  Trading Lawsuits  Zwirn said he understood what he was doing and felt he had
no choice but to go to the SEC. “The agony was that I knew that
to do that would mean I was putting myself into a horrible
position of being [mistakenly] accused.”  The full scope of the accounting misdeeds at D.B. Zwirn
came to light publicly in the second half of 2009, when Gruss
and Zwirn traded lawsuits in federal court in New York seeking
financial retribution from each other. On April 8, 2011, the day
after Zwirn got his final absolution letter from the SEC, the
commission added to the legal pile by filing its own a suit
against Gruss. According to the SEC’s 14-page complaint, on 25
occasions between March 2004 and July 2006, Gruss “knowingly
misused the signatory and approval authority he had over the
funds held in client accounts and directed and/or authorized
more than $870 million in improper transfers of client cash,
both between client funds and from client funds to the
 investment adviser ” -- D.B. Zwirn -- “and third parties.”  Early Payments  The SEC also noted that Gruss had authorized taking
management fees before they were due. Without the early
payments, the SEC says, the management company “would have
faced severe liquidity constraints and might have been unable to
fund its disbursements for operating expenses,” a charge that,
if true, reveals the extent to which the D.B. Zwirn funds lacked
internal cash management and accounting controls. It’s a rare
hedge fund company with billions under management that finds
itself stretched so thin that it cannot make payroll. But,
according to the SEC complaint, the management company would
have been short $2 million to $10 million at the end of 2005 and
the beginning of 2006 if Gruss had not taken the fees early.  Still incredulous, Zwirn said he had no idea the management
company was so short of cash; rather, he says, he thought the
firm was flush from its steady profits and growing management
fees. “Gruss has characterized what he did as, in effect, no
harm, no foul,” according to Zwirn’s court filings. “Gruss has
also admitted that he did not tell Zwirn or anyone in senior
management about the practice.”  ‘Improper’ Transfers  Although the SEC hasn’t accused Gruss of pocketing any D.B.
Zwirn funds, it notes that the transfers were “improper,” were
not permitted by the Zwirn offering documents, were not
disclosed to investors until after Gruss resigned in September
2006, and were violations of the Investment Advisers Act. Unless
Gruss “is permanently restrained and enjoined,” the SEC wrote
in its complaint, “he will continue to engage in acts,
practices and courses of business of similar type and object.”
All of which might be news to Gruss’s current employer, the U.S.
subsidiary of Babcock & Brown. After making and breaking six
appointments to give his account of what happened at D.B. Zwirn,
Gruss decided not to comment for this story. Babcock & Brown
didn’t return requests for comment.  Overseas Fund  At least a few people at D.B. Zwirn suspected Gruss was out
of his depth. The first documented instance of Gruss’s moving
money between funds occurred during the first quarter of 2005.
Silvia Wu, a senior accountant at the firm, received a funding
request for an unspecified investment in the domestic fund and
realized the fund didn’t have the cash to cover it. She asked
Gruss how to proceed, and Gruss told her to take the money from
the overseas fund. According to the SEC, “Thereafter, a
practice developed of using cash” from the overseas fund to
cover the domestic fund’s investments, with Gruss approving the
transfers in e-mails.  Wu resigned in June 2005 “because she was uncomfortable
with the interfund transfer practice,” according to court
documents. Zwirn said Gruss told him she left because she wanted
to have a baby. According to the SEC, Wu’s replacement, Li Anne
Law, “repeatedly expressed concern to Gruss about the practice
of transferring cash between funds.” On April 18, 2005, after
Gruss had approved another transfer, Law wrote him an e-mail.
“Is there a game plan? Or is this something that the back
office must ‘learn to accept?’ ” Gruss’s e-mail response:
“What’s our altwrnatives? [sic]” Law quit the company in June
2006 “for the same reason” as Wu, according to court
documents, and told her successor “not to allow herself to get
drawn into the practice of making interfund transfers.” Law has
moved to  London  and changed her name. Wu now lives in  Asia .
Neither could be reached for comment.  Gruss Seeks Dismissal  Gruss has filed a motion to dismiss the SEC’s lawsuit.
Nathaniel Akerman, Gruss’s attorney, argues that interfund
transfers “were permitted in general as part of the basic
operations of both funds, and all of the monies that were
advanced to the [domestic fund] were continuously returned to
the [overseas fund] either in kind or in cash with only $108
million remaining to be paid as of October 2006,” after Gruss
left the company. According to Zwirn, these transfers were made
without his authorization, despite what the documents might have
permitted.  Strict ‘Micromanager’  In his lawsuit, Gruss seeks more than $10 million for
defamation and breach of contract from Zwirn and D.B. Zwirn. In
his July 2009 federal court filing, Gruss argues that Zwirn was
hardly the disconnected genius behind the beautiful machine.
Zwirn was actually “a micromanager” who “paid strict
attention to every detail of his business” and “was involved
intimately in all aspects of the company’s investment, legal,
financial, managerial, and operational details.” Zwirn was
“such a micromanager,” Gruss contends, that the CEO “spent
endless hours poring over details and data and would constantly
demand that reports be provided to him immediately, day or
night, weekdays and weekends.” Gruss says Zwirn “needed a
scapegoat” and a “fall guy” for his firm’s problems, which he
described as “growing at an uncontrollable pace.”  In his suit against Gruss, Zwirn and his management company
have demanded $45 million from Gruss. The SEC’s lawsuit against
Gruss and the suits between Gruss and Zwirn are pending.  Following the Script  After Gruss tendered his resignation in September 2006,
Zwirn hired lawyers.  Gibson Dunn  was brought in to investigate
the interfund transfers, and  Fried Frank  was retained to
represent D.B. Zwirn in its dealings with the SEC. Gibson Dunn
hired Deloitte & Touche to do forensic accounting work. “Now
the meter’s really running,” said Zwirn.  Following a carefully vetted script, Zwirn called each of
his investors to explain what Schulte Roth had uncovered and
what Gibson was setting out to do, and followed up with a memo
on Nov. 3 reiterating his “chagrin” at the accounting errors.
Zwirn relinquished all authority over the Gibson Dunn
investigation to Cutler and David Lee, who was elevated to CFO
of the hedge funds from his job as a Zwirn portfolio manager.
Zwirn also forfeited his ability to claim any of his documents,
actions, or conversations as privileged. “If David and I
thought that something needed to be passed over to the lawyers
that would put Dan in jail for 20 years, Dan had no say in it,”
Cutler said. “That’s really scary, especially since David and I
had no clue if there was a smoking gun.”  Eight-Page Memo  On March 26, 2007, Zwirn shared Gibson’s conclusions with
his investors in an eight-page, single-spaced memo. “Although
the cumulative impact to our fund’s investment performance is
not quantitatively material, the conduct identified is
completely unacceptable to us and deeply embarrassing,” Zwirn
wrote, blaming the errors on “substantial growth over a
relatively short period of time.” A number of other
infractions—such as miscalculating NAVs and the value of certain
illiquid securities—were reported. The firm also announced that
it had hired Warren Rudman, the former U.S. senator from  New
Hampshire , to advise it on “best practices” for governance and
compliance.  Zwirn paid $8.5 million from his own pocket to the overseas
fund to compensate it for the lost interest on the money that
Gruss had transferred. He also paid an additional $35 million
for the cost of the investigations. (Neither Gibson Dunn nor
Schulte Roth would make their full investigative reports
available; Zwirn said he was not given copies of them, only
their conclusions.)  Pushing for Audit  When word of the accounting issues at D.B. Zwirn leaked in
December 2006, Zwirn decided to stop accepting new money, though
money was the least of his problems. D.B. Zwirn’s real enemy was
time. Zwirn kept pushing PricewaterhouseCoopers to produce the
2006 audit so Zwirn’s investors could get their K-1s in order to
file their tax returns. But the accounting firm would not start
the 2006 audit until the Gibson Dunn report was completed in
March 2007. Then Pricewaterhouse fielded a 90-person team, led
by partner Scott Sulzberger, to comb through nearly every aspect
of the business. Despite pressure from Zwirn to complete the
audit swiftly, it wasn’t finished until Dec. 24, 2007, at a cost
of $23 million. Between September 2006 and November 2007
investors redeemed $1.4 billion, in large part because the slow-
rolling audit meant a delay in giving investors their K-1s,
which then impeded their ability to file their own tax returns.
PricewaterhouseCoopers did not respond to requests for comment.  ‘Not Absolving Dan’  Jason Papastavrou, the founder of Aris Capital, had between
$10 million and $20 million invested in Zwirn’s fund. “Look, we
are not buddies,” he said of Zwirn. “I am never going to go to
lunch or dinner with him.” Papastavrou said Zwirn’s biggest
mistake was hiring Gruss, but, “I am not absolving Dan for what
happened. His name was on the door.” Still, he doesn’t think
Zwirn deserves his fate. “Dan was beyond a workaholic. He was
not some guy out in the Hamptons, chasing chicks in his Ferrari.
Dan used to have 7 a.m. meetings on Saturdays in Central Park
with his portfolio managers. Nobody worked harder.”  After a total of $2 billion departed the funds, Zwirn
decided in February 2008 to wind them down. Fifteen months later
the remaining $2.5 billion in illiquid assets were transferred
to an affiliate of  Fortress Investment Group (FIG)  LLC, which
continues to manage them. “My life’s work is gone,” Zwirn
said.  Meanwhile, the SEC investigation churned on. According to
Steven Witzel, Zwirn’s counsel at Fried Frank, Zwirn could have
made the decision “lawfully” not to self-report the incidents
to the SEC because the amounts of money involved were
nonmaterial. Instead Zwirn turned over more than 15 million
documents, and the commission took sworn testimony from a dozen
Zwirn employees and interviewed many others.  SEC Staffing  “Many cases take longer than we would like -- in fact
that’s typical,” Witzel said. “The staff wants to make sure
they are thorough. Here they had one staff attorney with
supervision. Typically, we’d like to see it over sooner, but the
SEC in this case didn’t have the personnel to do it any
faster.”  Why the SEC didn’t add more people to the investigation and
ignored the Seaboard precedent is a question the commission
hasn’t answered. George Canellos, the director of the SEC’s New
York office and the most senior official involved with Zwirn’s
case, did not return phone calls seeking comment. The SEC made
one of its lawyers available to discuss the Seaboard precedent
but only on background and not in relationship to the Zwirn
investigation or its active case against Gruss.  Changed View  Zwirn has been changed by his tribulations. His once-
ubiquitous self-confidence is gone, and he’s more cynical; he
says he no longer believes the world is meritocratic or that
doing the right thing always yields the right result. He
reserves most of his anger for the SEC and
PricewaterhouseCoopers, with a special citation for  Robert
Khuzami . Prior to D.B. Zwirn’s assets being sold to Fortress,
Zwirn tried to partner with Deutsche Bank to buy back his firm.
Khuzami, then the bank’s general counsel for the Americas, was
one of the people Zwirn spoke with regularly. Zwirn says Khuzami
knew about Gruss and the money transfers when he joined the SEC
as its chief enforcement officer and could have helped bring
about a faster resolution. But Khuzami recused himself. Khuzami
didn’t respond to a request for comment made in an e-mail to an
SEC spokesman.  The two letters encased in Lucite have brought Zwirn a
modicum of relief. Still, Zwirn and others at the now defunct
firm are astonished at the way in which D.B. Zwirn vanished. As
a result of all the delays, “he lost the support of his
investors because he wasn’t able to provide them [with] what
they ultimately needed, which was enough information -- like the
K-1s -- to keep them happy,” said Cutler.  ‘Patient Was Dead’  “Dan went down because basically we as a firm decided to
go public with the issues in the organization, which in
hindsight is a difficult thing to do. We spent tens and tens of
millions of dollars providing a tremendous amount of information
to regulators. In the end, the resolution was great. But by then
the patient was dead.” Zwirn doesn’t blame Gruss -- “Perry’s
activities didn’t kill the business on their own,” he says --
but he also doesn’t hesitate when asked what he would have done
differently: “Hired a different guy to be my CFO.”  Zwirn is not impoverished. He has pieces of two small banks
as well as a small commercial  finance company  and an office
building in  Beverly Hills . “It doesn’t take a lot of my time,”
he says of his remaining investments, “but it’s a fine thing.”  He lives in a rental apartment on the Upper East Side of
Manhattan with his wife, a fixed-income research analyst at
Morgan Stanley, and their two young sons. He’s thought about
returning to school to get a Ph.D. in philosophy or foreign
policy and considered turning his positions on the board of the
 Brookings Institution  and as a member of the  Council on Foreign
Relations  into full-time research gigs. He hopes to reclaim his
reputation, noting that Google searches of his name do him no
favors.  Potential Investors  Not surprisingly, Zwirn would also like to get back behind
the wheel. He recently returned from visiting potential
investors in London, flying business class on a commercial jet.
“The macro environment for what I know how to do is exceptional
and has prospects of being so for quite a long time,” he said.
“I got a lot of clarity from this process. It’s what I am
actually doing for 15 hours in a day that’s important. And so
there’s lots of forms that could take as long as I’m able to do
something that has the levers and buttons and control panel on
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William D. Cohan in New York at 
 wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  