-- 38 People Killed in Fire at Russian Psychiatric Hospital
-- B y   T o r r e y   C l a r k   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-04-26T15:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/38-people-feared-dead-in-fire-at-russian-psychiatric-hospital.html
Thirty-eight people died after a
fire raged through a psychiatric hospital outside Moscow early
today, prompting a call by President  Vladimir Putin  for a full
investigation into the tragedy.  Forty-one people, including three staff, were in the
single-story building when the fire began, according to the
 Emergency Ministry . Thirty-eight bodies were recovered, while
three people escaped the blaze, the ministry said on its
website.  Putin ordered Moscow Region Governor Andrei Vorobyov and
government agencies and ministries to “determine all the
circumstances and causes of the tragedy that took place, conduct
a necessary investigation and extend help to survivors,”
according to a  statement  on the Kremlin’s website.  The fire began at about 3 a.m. and may have been caused by
arson, an electrical short-circuit or another malfunction, the
state news service RIA Novosti reported. Most of the patients
died in their sleep from inhaling fumes from the blaze, RIA
reported, citing a police official who declined to be named.  Firefighters took more than an hour to reach the site
because the nearest station was 51 kilometers (32 miles) away,
according to Interfax.  One of the survivors testified that a patient probably
caused the fire, RIA reported, citing a representative of the
regional branch of the Investigative Committee. The inmates of
the psychiatric hospital weren’t locked in their rooms, a nurse
who escaped the blaze was cited as saying by the  news agency .  According to a list provided by the Emergency Ministry, the
oldest of the 41 people in the hospital at the time of the blaze
was born in 1937 and the youngest was in 1993.  Lax standards and disregard for fire safety have led to
deadly blazes in  Russia . Last year, 11,635 people died in fires
across the country, the Emergency Ministry said. In September,
at least 10 people believed to be Vietnamese citizens died in a
fire at a clothing factory in the Moscow region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  