-- AbbVie Profit Beats Analysts’ Estimates in First Quarter
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-04-26T20:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/abbvie-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-in-first-quarter.html
AbbVie Inc. (ABBV)  may reap another $1.5
billion in new annual sales of Humira, the rheumatoid arthritis
drug that makes up half its revenue, as new uses for the
medicine are approved, the company said.  First-quarter sales of Humira increased 16 percent from a
year earlier, helping the North Chicago, Illinois-based
drugmaker report earnings and revenue today that beat analyst
estimates. The quarter’s results were the first since AbbVie was
split from parent  Abbott Laboratories. (ABT)   “We expect new indications to add $1.5 billion in peak-
year sales,” AbbVie Chief Financial Officer Richard Gonzalez
said today on a conference call. The company is seeking new uses
for the drug in other immune and inflammatory diseases, even as
new competitors enter the market. “Humira currently offers the
broadest label in the category,” he said.  AbbVie is also trying to develop medicines that will
diversify its product line beyond Humira, which generated $9.27
billion last year and makes up about 50 percent of AbbVie’s
sales. The company’s dependence on Humira isn’t a major concern
yet given the biotechnology drug’s strength in the market, said
Jeffrey Holford, an analyst at Jefferies Group LLC who has a buy
rating on AbbVie’s shares.  The drugmaker “has patent extension and reformulation
strategies to prevent or delay biosimilars entering the market
when the initial molecule patents expire,” Holford said in a
note to clients.  Shares Gain  AbbVie rose 3.6 percent to $45.84 at 4 p.m.  New York  time.
The stock had gained 34 percent this year, when it began trading
on the open market in January. AbbVie reaffirmed its full-year
profit forecast of $3.03 a share to $3.13 a share excluding
certain items.  First-quarter earnings excluding one-time items of 68 cents
a share beat by 1 cent the average of 10  analysts’ estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Net income was $968 million, or 60 cents
a share, the company said in a statement. Revenue was $4.33
billion, beating analysts’ estimates of $4.3 billion.  AbbVie has been expanding Humira’s use with new indications
in the U.S. for other immune system and inflammatory diseases,
including psoriasis and ulcerative colitis. U.S. sales of the
drug increased 24 percent, largely driven by the additional
uses, the company said.  Research Focus  As other company medicines lose patent protection in the
primary care area, the drugmaker is focusing on treatments for
smaller populations with significant unmet medical needs, Chief
Financial Officer William Chase said in January. AbbVie plans to
fire its cardiology sales force, said a person familiar with the
matter earlier this month, as drugs in that portfolio face
generic competition.  AbbVie’s experimental hepatitis C therapy is the closest of
its major experimental compounds to reaching the market. The
combination of drugs, if approved, is likely to face competition
from therapies being developed by Gilead Sciences Inc. and
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  “We would expect a very early 2015 launch,” John Leonard,
the company’s chief scientific officer, said on the conference
call today. “We’re working as fast as we can. It’s a very
competitive space.”  Other therapies in development include medicines to treat
conditions such as Parkinson’s, a nervous system disorder, and
endometriosis, a disease of the uterus.  Elagolix, the endometriosis drug, is in the last of three
phases of clinical trials usually required before regulatory
approval. AbbVie also is researching the medicine for uterine
fibroids, and the treatment is in late mid-stage trials for that
indication.  The company also has a drug, ABT-719, to treat the rapid
failure of the kidneys. The compound may enter the final phase
of trials late next year, AbbVie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  