-- Accused Boston Mobster Bulger in Court Seeking Immunity
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-04-26T20:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/accused-boston-mobster-bulger-in-court-seeking-immunity.html
Reputed mob boss James “Whitey” Bulger appeared in court for the first time since his arrest
almost two years ago, seeking documents his lawyer said will
show he had an immunity deal with the U.S.  Justice Department .  The government has accused Bulger, 83, of participating in
19 murders and running an extortion ring that started in South
Boston and over two decades expanded around the city. He was
captured after more than a decade on the run and his prosecution
was the highest-profile case before the office of Boston U.S.
Attorney Carmen Ortiz until the April 15 Marathon bombings.  Bulger, in an orange prison uniform, sat at the defense
table today in Boston federal court while his lawyers,  J.W.
Carney  and  Henry Brennan , asked U.S. District Judge Denise Casper to make prosecutors provide internal Justice Department
records and memos from the 1980s that might show their client
had been granted broad immunity from prosecution.  “The records of the Justice Department and the FBI have
been scoured in search of the Holy Grail,” government attorney
Fred Wyshak told the judge. “It does not exist.”  Casper declined to rule on the motion today and set jury
selection to begin June 4.  For two decades, local and state police in  Massachusetts 
unsuccessfully sought to build cases against Bulger. In December
1994, shortly before he was indicted, Bulger vanished.  FBI Informant  Years later, a federal court examination of the
relationship between Bulger and law enforcement officials
determined that he had served as an informant for the Boston
office of the  Federal Bureau of Investigation , helping agents
dismantle the Patriarca crime family in  New England .  The records also showed that Bulger’s primary handler, FBI
agent John Connolly, had protected him from prosecution at the
state level, tipping him off about potential informants who
might incriminate him. Connolly was convicted in federal court
of racketeering and in state court of second-degree murder. He
is currently in prison.  Bulger spent more than a decade on the FBI’s most wanted
list, remaining in hiding until June 2011, when he was arrested
in  Santa Monica ,  California . The story of his relationship with
Connolly was the subject of numerous books and partially
inspired the Martin Scorsese movie  “The Departed.”   Three Dead  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, was arrested last week after a four-
day manhunt and accused of taking part in the double bombing
near the finish line of the marathon that killed three people
and injured more than 200. Ortiz charged Tsarnaev, whose brother
Tamerlan died after a shootout with police, with two counts that
can carry the death penalty, including using a weapon of mass
destruction.  Richard DesLauriers, who heads the Boston FBI office, used
similar tactics to capture Bulger and Tsarnaev. In 2011, he
ended the 16-year hunt for the accused mobster by organizing a
television and social-media campaign targeting female viewers of
daytime soap operas whose age range roughly matched the
fugitive’s girlfriend.  Last week, the 25-year FBI investigator released
photographs and video of the Tsarnaev brothers, while he
simultaneously announced the creation of a dedicated website for
tipsters.     Within hours, release of the pictures set off a chain
of events that led to the death of Tamerlan Tsarnaev and the
capture of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev in a Boston suburb.  The cases are U.S. v. Bulger, 99-10371; and U.S. v.
Tsarnaev, 13-mj-02106, U.S. District Court, District of
Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Farrell in  New York  at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawrence@me.com   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  