-- Activision’s Kotick Gets 8-Fold Raise Reaching Top Tier
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2013-04-27T06:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/activision-ceo-s-64-9-million-puts-him-in-top-ranks-of-pay-1-.html
Robert Kotick, president and chief
executive officer of  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , increased his
compensation almost eightfold to $64.9 million last year,
becoming one of the highest-paid CEOs in the U.S.  The bulk of the increase for Kotick came in stock awards
valued at $55.9 million, based on regulatory reporting rules,
that were tied to a new employment  agreement  signed in March
2012, according to a  filing  yesterday by the video-game software
company. While vesting stretches over five years, the awards 
are reported in the year of the grant. Kotick, 50, received
$8.33 million in total compensation last year, filings show.  The increase would put Kotick at No. 2 among U.S. public-
company CEOs for 2012, based on data compiled by Bloomberg. 
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  founder  Larry Ellison  leads with $96.2 million 
including options and other extras. Kotick could receive another
$16 million if he meets the highest performance targets, 
according to the filing.  “We don’t like any element of this pay package,” said
Nell Minow, a corporate-governance consultant at GMI Ratings and
frequent critic of executive pay. “In the past we have
expressed concern about this company and its compensation
practices.”  Kotick’s base salary and incentive compensation are richer
than what’s expected for the video-game sector, Minow said. The
company also isn’t clear about how his pay was determined, and
stock grants aren’t sufficiently tied to performance, she said.  Maryanne Lataif, a spokeswoman for Santa Monica,
California-based Activision, didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  New Contract  The stock grants in Kotick’s new employment contract cover
performance retroactive from July 1, 2011, and run through the
deal’s end in June 2016, according to a March 19, 2012,
regulatory filing. He received no stock awards in 2011 and $1.9
million in 2010, and no stock options in any of the past three
years.  In yesterday’s filing, Activision said Kotick exceeded
goals on operating income, diluted earnings per share and free
cash flow. He fell short on expansion of profit margins. His
2012 pay included a salary of $2.01 million, a $2.5 million
bonus and other pay of $4.52 million, along with the stock
award.  The company, with a market value of $16.5 billion, posted
annual net income of $1.15 billion, or $1.01 a share, on sales
of $4.86 billion.  Oracle, based in Redwood City,  California , has a market
value of $152 billion, and reported net income of $9.98 billion
in its latest fiscal year, with revenue of $37.1 billion.  Pay Parameters  Kotick’s compensation plan was approved by shareholders
last year. Activision is  majority owned  by  Vivendi SA (VIV) , Paris-
based parent of Universal Music and Canal Plus. Three of five
board members serving on Activision’s compensation committee are
senior Vivendi executives.  Simon Gillham, a spokesman for Vivendi, didn’t respond to
e-mailed messages after normal business hours in  France . Robert Corti, an independent director and member of the compensation
committee, couldn’t be reached for comment after hours yesterday
at the Avon Foundation for Women in New York, where he is
chairman. Robert Morgado, also an independent director and
compensation committee member, didn’t return a message seeking
comment at his office in New York.  Activision Blizzard said in the filing it seeks to have
executive pay in the 75th percentile of its peer group. That
includes competitors like  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  and a wider group
of entertainment, leisure and technology businesses such as CBS
Corp., toymaker  Mattel Inc. (MAT)  and Adobe Systems Inc.  Entertainment Pay  Entertainment executives rank among the highest paid in the
S&P 500 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  CBS Corp.’s Leslie Moonves led the group with $62.2
million,  David Zaslav  of Discovery Communications Inc. earned
$49.9 million to place second and Robert Iger of Walt Disney Co.
was third among his peers with $40.2 million.  Activision is the largest U.S. video-game publisher and 61-
percent owned by Vivendi SA. The stock rose 0.7 percent to
$14.82 yesterday in New York and has gained 40 percent this
year.  “The lack of information provided by the compensation
committee is a red flag,” Minow said. “It’s very difficult to
discern how they determined this compensation package from the
information that’s been provided.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in Los Angeles at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  