-- AIG’s Eastwood Leaves as Americas Property-Casualty CEO
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-04-26T20:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/aig-s-eastwood-leaves-as-americas-property-casualty-ceo.html
Peter Eastwood, the chief executive
officer of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s Americas
property-casualty operation, has left the insurer with three
other managers.  John Doyle , head of AIG’s global commercial business, will
assume Eastwood’s responsibilities until a permanent replacement
is named, said Matt Gallagher, a spokesman for New York-based
AIG.  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  hired Eastwood and
three other executives, Insurance Insider reported.  The departures add to vacancies that Peter Hancock, CEO of
AIG’s property-casualty unit, needs to fill as he seeks to scale
back from some capital-intensive lines of coverage and target
increased sales of consumer insurance. Jeffrey Hayman, who led
global consumer coverage at AIG’s property-casualty unit, left
in January for Starr International Co.  “AIG has a seasoned and very deep bench of talented
property-and-casualty executives ready to assume broader
responsibilities,” Gallagher said in an e-mailed statement.
“Our executives have the hard-earned experience of leading our
business through unprecedented times and circumstances.”  The insurer dropped $1.41, or 3.3 percent, to $40.87 at 4
p.m. in  New York  and has gained 16 percent this year. Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire slipped 0.3 percent, and is up 20
percent since Dec. 31.  Eastwood joined AIG in 1991 and was named in 2008 as CEO of
its Lexington Insurance unit, a provider of so-called surplus
lines coverage to industries including construction and energy.
Insurance Insider said Berkshire is seeking to establish an
excess-and-surplus carrier, which provides coverage that isn’t
available from businesses licensed in a state. Buffett didn’t
return a call seeking comment with an assistant.  The executives leaving with Eastwood include David J.
Bresnahan, David Fields and Sanjay Godhwani.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  