-- Air France Says 60% of Customers Opting for Discount Fare
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-04-26T13:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/air-france-says-60-of-customers-opting-for-discount-fare.html
Air France (AF)  said 60 percent of
passengers on short-haul services where there’s a choice of
paying less in exchange for fewer perks are taking up the offer.  The Mini option, added on 58 routes from Feb. 6, cuts fares
by 20 euros ($26) for people willing to travel without checked
bags and give up rights to frequent-flier miles. Take-up has
been such that the model will be rolled out across all 139
European and North African services, Air France said last week.  “The feedback we had from customers was good,” Emmanuelle
Gailland, Air France’s vice president of operational marketing,
said in a telephone interview. “We had a feeling that on short
and medium routes many customers had a need for this.”  Air France-KLM Group,  Europe ’s biggest airline, is offering
reduced fares as part of a wider short-haul restructuring aimed
at stemming loses and protecting market share against low-frills
competitors including  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  and  Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA)  With
the discounts -- which are only available if booked at least 40
days in advance -- tickets will sell from as little as 49 euros.  Air France said the three-fifths take-up rate is for those
passengers eligible for the Mini, which isn’t an option for
people requiring flexible travel or who subscribe to a program
that trims fares in exchange for an upfront annual payment.  Flying Fuller  Alexia Dogani, an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in
London, said the risk of Air France cannibalizing fares by
offering discounts to customers who would fly with the company
anyway is outweighed by the likelihood of fuller planes allowing
it to raise prices for people who book near the date of travel.  “By reducing the starting fare to compete with carriers
like EasyJet, Air France is building the  load factor  earlier, so
when they get to, say, 65 percent occupancy a week before travel
they can push fares quite high for business passengers,” said
Dogani, who has a “buy” recommendation on Air France-KLM stock.  Gailland said it’s too early for Paris-based Air France to
provide figures on changes in occupancy rates and average fares
-- or yields -- on the Mini routes, adding that there are no
plans to charge for snacks and drinks on the flights.  “In customer surveys, passengers said ‘we’re interested,
but at the same time we expect Air France to offer basic
services,’” she said. People who book a Mini fare can still opt
to check a bag should they need to on payment of an extra fee.  Regional Strategy  While the Mini service is being introduced on routes flown
by single-aisle airliners, Air France has a different strategy
for its regional services, which employ smaller aircraft and
tend to be used more by business travelers, creating a new unit,
Hop!, to merges its Brit Air, Regional and Airlinair operations.  Passengers flying with the new brand, which operates 98
planes with 48 to 100 seats, have a choice of Basic, Basic Plus
and MaxiFlex fare options starting at 55 euros. Whatever the
fare, they can check in one bag and qualify for a free snack and
a drink on board  The company is separately seeking to sell its other
regional arm, CityJet, the No. 1 carrier at  London  City airport,
with Intro Aviation GmbH of  Germany  and Dublin-based ASL
Aviation Group Ltd. among the final bidders.  Air France-KLM narrowed its loss to 300 million euros from
353 million euros last year after cutting jobs and reining in
capacity. It has said changes in fuel prices, the economy and
world trade have the potential to derail the recovery this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  