-- Alcatel-Lucent Losses Press New Chief in Strategy Review
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-04-26T10:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/alcatel-lucent-posts-quarterly-loss-as-new-ceo-reviews-strategy.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  reported a fourth
straight quarterly loss as its cash pile shrank by half a
billion euros, pressing new Chief Executive Officer Michel Combes to complete a strategy review.  The French network-equipment maker’s first-quarter net loss
was 353 million euros ($460 million), compared with a profit of
259 million euros a year earlier. Sales increased 0.6 percent to
3.23 billion euros, topping analysts’ estimate for 3.18 billion
euros. The operating loss was wider than projected.  Alcatel-Lucent in February named Combes, a former  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD)  executive, to replace Ben Verwaayen, who agreed to
step down after a three-year turnaround plan failed. Combes is
reviewing options as he looks to end losses and turn around the
Paris-based company.  Improving free cash flow should be the focus of Combes’s
strategy for the coming quarters, Sebastien Sztabowicz, a Paris-
based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets SA, wrote in a note.
There is “still significant balance sheet risk over the
immediate to long-term” at Alcatel-Lucent, said Jefferies & Co.
analyst George C. Notter.  Alcatel-Lucent’s stock, which was taken out of  France ’s CAC
40 index in December, fell 0.4 percent to 1.08 euros at 11:11
a.m. in Paris, valuing the company at 2.5 billion euros. The
shares gained 8.5 percent this year through yesterday, after
falling for three consecutive years.  Cash Consumption  Alcatel-Lucent has averaged an annual cash consumption of
700 million euros since its creation with the 2006 merger of
Alcatel SA and Lucent Technologies. In just the first quarter of
this year, the company consumed 533 million euros based on free
cash flow.  That was mainly due to additional interest payments and
restructuring charges, Chief Financial Officer Paul Tufano said
during a conference call. Tufano has said the cash impact of
restructuring alone will be about 500 million euros this year.  “We are actively reviewing the group’s businesses and
operating model to design the conditions for value creation in
the future,” Combes said in a statement. “I am looking forward
to sharing the outcome in early summer.”  After striking a crucial loan deal in December, Alcatel has
said it will consider selling assets outside its core business
to bolster its finances. A unit that equips businesses is among
those considered for disposal, along with the undersea fiber-
optic cables division, people familiar with the matter have
said.  “We’re proceeding to prepare for that,” Tufano said today
about asset sales, declining to provide a deadline. “We won’t
do fire sales.”  Huawei Competition  Alcatel-Lucent said the first-quarter trend for network
equipment was “encouraging.” It will continue to improve this
year, led by demand from carriers in the U.S. and  China , Tufano
said.  As operators invest in infrastructure to meet surging data
demand, European gear makers are vying for deals to compete with
Huawei Technologies Co. Ericsson AB, the largest maker of
wireless networks, this week reported first-quarter revenue that
trailed analysts’ estimates as Huawei ate into its growth.  Huawei, based in Shenzen, China, this month said it will
hire 5,500 people in  Europe  in the next four to five years as it
moves to grab more business in the region while competitors
reduce staff. Alcatel-Lucent has said it would cut 5,500 jobs,
and Stockholm-based Ericsson has announced it would eliminate
1,550 positions in  Sweden . Nokia Siemens Networks, the venture
between Nokia Oyj and Siemens AG, in 2011 announced plans to
slash 17,000 jobs, or 23 percent of its headcount.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  