-- Allen Stanford Told to Disgorge $6.7 Billion in SEC Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-04-26T21:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/allen-stanford-ordered-to-disgorge-6-7-billion-in-sec-case-1-.html
R. Allen Stanford, the  Texas 
financier convicted last year of leading an investment fraud
scheme, was ordered to disgorge more than $6.7 billion by the
judge in a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit.  U.S. District Judge David Godbey in Dallas issued the order
yesterday against Stanford, his Stanford Group Co. and the
Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  The order may clear the way for Godbey to grant a court-
appointed receiver’s request to make an interim $55 million
payout to investors who lost money after buying certificates of
deposit issued by the Stanford Bank.  “The fraud perpetrated was obviously egregious, was done
with a high degree of scienter, caused billions in losses and
occurred over the course of a decade,” Godbey said, using the
legal term to describe the mental state of intent to deceive.  A federal jury in Houston convicted Stanford of lying to
investors about how their money was being handled.  “The truth is that he flushed it away,” Justice
Department lawyer William Stellmach told jurors in his closing
arguments at the March 2012 trial. “He told depositors he was
using their money in one way and the truth was completely
different.”  Stanford, 63, was sentenced to 110 years in prison.
Maintaining his innocence, he has appealed the verdict.  Parallel Judgment  Godbey referred to the jury’s guilty finding in granting
the SEC’s request he render a parallel judgment in their case
filed in February 2009, four months before the financier was
indicted. The judge also cited the August 2009 guilty plea by
Stanford Group Chief Financial Officer James Davis.  “The court finds that $5.9 billion is a reasonable
approximation of the gains connected to Stanford’s fraud,”
Godbey said of the sum he would order disgorged. He then added
more than $861 million in interest for a total of $6.76 billion.
Davis too is jointly liable.  Finally the judge imposed a $5.9 billion penalty on
Stanford and a $5 million assessment against Davis, who received
a five-year prison sentence.  The court-appointed receiver, Ralph Janvey, asked Godbey
this month for permission to begin repaying some of the losses
incurred by the more than 17,000 claimants. At an April 11
hearing, the judge told Janvey’s lawyer, Kevin Sadler, he was
concerned about doing so before a final order had been entered
against Stanford.  Societe Generale  In a separate filing today, a group of Stanford investors
asked Godbey to grant them a judgment of at least $95 million in
a lawsuit against a unit of Paris-based  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)   The lender’s Societe Generale Private Banking (Suisse) unit
took the money from a Stanford bank account with his permission
in December 2008 to repay a loan made to him four years earlier,
according to court papers.  The financier had caused a business funded by Stanford
investor-depositor money to guarantee the loan in 2007, the
investors alleged, while those depositors received no benefit.
The transfer of that money to Societe Generale just two months
before the SEC sued Stanford and shut down his businesses was a
fraudulent transfer, the investors claimed in today’s filing.  Ken Hagan and Jim Galvin, New York-based spokesman for the
French bank, did not immediately reply to voicemail messages
seeking comment on the allegations.  Slush Fund  Davis, the CFO, testified at Stanford’s trial that the
financier maintained a Societe Generale Swiss bank account,
funded by investor deposits.  “It was a slush fund, just used for whatever the holder
wanted to use it for,” Davis said during the Houston federal
court trial in February 2012.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stanford International Bank, 09-cv-00298, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas ( Dallas ). The criminal case is U.S.
v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of Texas (Houston).  The investors’ case is Rotstain v. Trustmark National Bank,
09-cv-02384, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
(Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  