-- MAN SE Cuts 2013 Forecast as Europe Decline Leads to Loss
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-04-26T09:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/man-se-cuts-2013-forecast-as-europe-decline-leads-to-loss.html
MAN SE (MAN) , Europe’s third-largest
maker of commercial vehicles, lowered its earnings forecast for
2013 as a drop in its home region’s truck market and extra costs
on a power-plant project led to a first-quarter loss.  The loss before interest, taxes and one-time items was 82
million euros ($106.8 million) versus profit of 254 million
euros a year earlier, Munich-based MAN  said  today. That compares
with an average 30.8 million-euro loss  estimated  by five
analysts. MAN expects a “significant” drop in 2013 operating
profit and a return on sales “well below” the 2012 figure.  Amid a recession in the 17 countries sharing the euro,
demand for commercial vehicles in Europe fell for a 15th
consecutive month in March. First-quarter sales of trucks
weighing more than 3.5 tons dropped 17 percent to 64,198
vehicles, industry association ACEA said today in a statement.  “We still don’t see any signs of a significant economic
recovery in 2013,” Chief Executive Officer Georg Pachta- Reyhofen told journalists today on a conference call. At the
same time, MAN will “of course” report a “positive result”
for the full year.  MAN  fell  as much as 0.6 percent to 84.28 euros and was
trading down 0.4 percent at 11:45 a.m. in  Frankfurt , valuing the
manufacturer at 12.4 billion euros.  Sales Decline  First-quarter revenue fell 7.6 percent to 3.55 billion
euros. New orders dropped 14 percent to 3.75 billion euros. The
company raised its forecast for revenue this year, saying sales
will about match the number from 2012 instead of a “slight
decline” forecast earlier. Its earlier prediction for operating
profit was for a “disproportionately large drop” compared with
sales.  “The results were relatively weak compared to other
truckmakers, especially the order intake,” Sascha Gommel, a
Frankfurt-based analyst at Commerzbank AG said via phone. He
rates MAN stock as hold.  Volvo AB (VOLVB) , the world’s second-largest truckmaker, posted its
first order growth in six quarters yesterday as customers in
recession-plagued  Europe  prepared to replace vehicles in advance
of stricter emissions rules. The Gothenburg, Sweden-based
manufacturer’s Ebit in the first three months of 2013 plunged 92
percent and it posted a net loss because of the costs of unused
production capacity.  Daimler Profit  Daimler AG said on April 24 that first-quarter Ebit at its
truck unit, the world’s biggest maker of the vehicles, plunged
69 percent because of the western European sales decline and
investment spending in India and  China . Swedish competitor
Scania AB’s operating profit fell 17 percent.  Anders Nielsen, MAN’s truck-division chief, said the
company has no plans for shorter working hours in the second
half of the year and that inventories are at a “normal level.”  MAN reiterated today that profit will be reduced by about
140 million euros in additional provisions due to “risks” at
its power engineering division related to a turnkey project to
build diesel-fueled electricity plants. Group provisions in the
first quarter totaled 138 million euros. Pachta-Reyhofen said
MAN agreed to not disclose the name of the customer involved in
the contract, which is undergoing an audit.  The failure of the contract may have “extremely negative”
repercussions, Commerzbank’s Gommel said.  Production Cuts  MAN, controlled by Wolfsburg, Germany-based  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,
has scaled back production in response to the shrinking truck
market in Europe. Measures to protect earnings have included
reducing work shifts, cutting costs and streamlining
procurement.  Volkswagen, Europe’s biggest carmaker, is pushing for
closer cooperation between MAN and Scania, which the auto
manufacturer also controls. VW has made a low-ball initial offer
to other holders of MAN stock in a push for full control.  VW, which already owns 75.03 percent of MAN’s voting
rights, will offer 80.89 euros per share. Investors who don’t
accept the cash offer will receive a guaranteed annual dividend
of 3.07 euros per share.  Hans Dieter Poetsch, Volkswagen’s chief financial officer,
said at the carmaker’s annual shareholder meeting yesterday that
the VW and MAN supervisory boards have approved VW’s plan for a
profit transfer and domination agreement at the truckmaker.  Pachta-Reyhofen said today preparations are almost
completed and MAN investors will vote on the domination
agreement at the annual shareholders meeting on June 6.  Volkswagen rearranged its truck operations’ management last
year after a six-year effort to get MAN and Soedertaelje-based
 Scania (SCVB)  to work together. Leif Oestling was promoted from his
post as chief executive officer of Scania to join VW’s
management board to help forge the alliance.  Cooperation between MAN and Scania has begun with joint
purchases of raw materials, and the cost reductions should help
earnings in coming quarters, Pachta-Reyhofen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  