-- Manti Te’o Fails to Get Picked in First Round of NFL’s Draft
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-26T06:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/manti-te-o-fails-to-get-picked-in-first-round-of-nfl-s-draft.html
The Minnesota Vikings passed on
Manti Te’o even though they had a need at linebacker and were
the first team in 12 years to have three picks in the opening
round of the National Football League draft.  So did 27 other teams on day one of the NFL draft.  Te’o, the Heisman Trophy runner-up as college football’s
best player last season, was among the most noteworthy prospects
to go undrafted during the first round, along with quarterbacks
Geno Smith, Matt Barkley and Ryan Nassib, running back Eddie
Lacey and cornerback Tyrann Mathieu.  Online betting website Bovada.lv put the over/under for
Te’o to be selected at 25 1/2, as some draft analysts projected
him to be taken by the Vikings at No. 25.  The Vikings opted for defense with their top two picks,
taking University of  Florida  defensive tackle Sharrif Floyd at
No. 23 and Florida State cornerback Xavier Rhodes with the 25th
pick. Minnesota then traded up to take University of Tennessee
receiver Cordarrelle Patterson at No. 29.  Vikings coach Leslie Frazier said the team may consider
making another trade on day two to get a linebacker.  “We still have some time to maybe find a guy,” Frazier
told reporters last night, without being specific. “There are
still a lot of linebackers on the board.”  Irish Defense  As a senior, Te’o finished second to Johnny Manziel in the
Heisman voting after spearheading a Notre Dame defense that
allowed the fewest points of any team at college football’s top
level. Te’o had a team-leading 103 tackles and seven
interceptions as the Fighting Irish went 12-0 and earned the No.
1 national ranking and a spot in the national championship game.  Te’o received the Nagurski Award as college football’s best
defensive player and the Butkus Award as the nation’s top
linebacker, yet began facing questions after Notre Dame was
routed 42-14 by the University of  Alabama  in January’s Bowl
Championship Series title game.  About a week later, it was revealed that Te’o had been
caught in a hoax involving a fake online girlfriend and lied
about it in media interviews during the lead-up to the national
title game. Te’o said he was fooled into believing his fake
girlfriend had died of leukemia in September and didn’t lie
about the situation until December, when he became aware she
didn’t actually exist.  Te’o said he wasn’t a part of the fabricated story and
apologized for lying, yet had to answer questions from teams
about the hoax and his ability to play middle linebacker in the
NFL at the league’s scouting combine in February.  Te’o wasn’t among the 23 prospects who accepted invitations
to attend the draft, 19 of whom were picked in the first round
and received a hug and personalized jersey from NFL Commissioner
Roger Goodell.  Te’o may find out what team he’ll play for today as the NFL
draft continues with the second and third rounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  