-- Argentina to Get Belgium LNG Spot Cargo at Bahia Blanca April 28
-- B y   C h o u   H u i   H o n g
-- 2013-04-26T08:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/argentina-to-get-belgium-lng-spot-cargo-at-bahia-blanca-april-28.html
Argentina  is scheduled to receive a
spot cargo of liquefied natural gas from Belgium over the
weekend, according to ship-tracking data.  The Galicia Spirit, with a capacity of 137,814 cubic
meters, will arrive April 28 at the port of Bahia Blanca
southwest of  Buenos Aires , according to ship transmissions
captured by IHS Fairplay on Bloomberg. The tanker sailed from
Zeebrugge, Belgium’s LNG receiving terminal, where it loaded the
supercooled natural gas and departed April 10.  YPF SA,  Repsol SA (REP)  and Repsol Gas Natural LNG have leased
Excelerate Energy’s LNG vessel, the Excelsior, and docked it at
Bahia Blanca to unload LNG, according to Excelerate’s website.
The floating regasification facility began operating in 2008.  Officials from Energia Argentina SA, the state-run energy
company known as Enarsa, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails
seeking comment outside normal working hours. Officials from
 Fluxys (FLUX) , the company that owns and operates the  Zeebrugge 
facility, didn’t respond to a phone call to their Brussels
office.  Argentina has no long-term LNG-purchase contracts. Enarsa
and YPF have issued six spot purchase tenders seeking as many as
143 cargoes from December last year. YPF’s latest tender for 10
LNG shipments delivered to  Bahia Blanca  in the second half of
2013 closed April 10.  Belgium doesn’t produce any LNG. The Zeebrugge terminal is
used by traders to store and export cargoes.  The Ben Badis, with a capacity of 173,800 cubic meters,
delivered a shipment from Portugal’s Sines LNG receiving
terminal to Bahia Blanca on April 23, according to the shipping
data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  