-- Arsenal Makes Early Move for Jovetic, Mail Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-04-26T10:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/arsenal-makes-early-move-for-jovetic-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet
links.  Early Mover  Arsenal opened negotiations for Fiorentina striker Stevan
Jovetic in an attempt to sign him before Juventus and  Manchester
City  make a move for the 25 million-pound ($39 million) player,
the Daily Mail said.  Gunners manager Arsene Wenger is planning to try to talk
down the price for the 23-year-old, the newspaper said. The
coach yesterday expressed concern about how much Chelsea will
spend after the season, it said.  Swansea to Spain  Swansea manager Michael Laudrup is hoping to steal Sevilla
striker Alvaro Negredo for less than the 13 million pounds the
financially troubled Spanish club is demanding,  the Daily
Express said .  The 27-year-old is also being watched by Tottenham and
Everton, the newspaper said. Germany’s Borussia Dortmund may
also move for Negredo should striker  Robert Lewandowski  leave
for Bayern Munich or  Manchester United , the Express said.  Villas-Boas Staying  Tottenham manager Andre Villas-Boas said he is focused on
the London team despite speculation that he might replace  Jose Mourinho  at Real Madrid,  the Guardian said .  The 35-year-old Portuguese coach said the reports are
“flattering,” but said he wants to spend more than one season
at a club after leaving Porto and Chelsea within a year, the
newspaper said.  Mourinho may leave Real after the season, and the Spanish
team may turn to  Carlo Ancelotti  at Paris Saint-Germain,
although Villas-Boas is an option too, the Guardian said.  Return on Redmond  Birmingham is ready to sell winger Nathan Redmond for 2
million pounds as the cash-strapped club looks to raise funds,
the Daily Telegraph said.  Fulham, West Brom and Norwich are interested in bringing in
the player, who featured for England’s under-19 squad, the
newspaper said. Birmingham owner  Carson Yeung  is facing a trial
in Hong Kong this year for money laundering, the Telegraph said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  