-- Austria Yields to EU Savings-Tax Talks as Bank Secrecy Wobbles
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-04-26T17:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/austria-yields-to-eu-savings-tax-talks-as-bank-secrecy-wobbles.html
Austria  became the last of the
European Union’s 27 members to give up blocking the coordination
of savings taxes and talks with non-EU countries, a sign that
banking secrecy within the bloc may be over.  The country will “cooperate constructively” in the talks
about broader tax cooperation with the countries outside the
union, Chancellor Werner Faymann and Vice Chancellor Michael Spindelegger said today in a joint statement published on the
website of the Chancellery.  “We want the international struggle against tax fraud to
work and we want to be engaged actively in it,” Faymann and
Spindelegger said in the statement. “Whether or not we will
agree to the extended savings-tax directive will depend on
whether it will indeed be suited to effectively avoiding  tax
evasion  and  tax fraud .”  Luxembourg and Austria last year vetoed negotiations over
the extension of a savings-tax agreement because of concerns
they would be forced to give up banking-secrecy measures that
attract foreign depositors. The two countries blocked the EU
from starting talks on updating the seven-year-old tax accord
with  Switzerland , Liechtenstein, Monaco, Andorra and  San Marino .  Luxembourg gave up its opposition two weeks ago, leaving
Austria isolated. Faymann criticized his Finance Minister Maria Fekter in a radio interview today for a draft letter to the
European Commission that identified four “conditions” for
those talks. He said Austria was becoming a “laughing stock”
because of how it dealt with the issue. Faymann listed three
issues in his statement that Austria considers to be
“decisive,” while avoiding to characterize them as conditions.  Fekter said in a statement she welcomed Faymann’s and
Spindelegger’s comments. Austria is governed by a coalition of
Faymann’s centre-left Social Democrats and the conservative
 People’s Party  to which Spindelegger and Fekter belong. National
elections are due in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  