-- Avon Non-Executive Chairman Hassan Leaves After Four Months
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-04-26T20:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/avon-non-executive-chairman-hassan-leaves-after-four-months.html
Avon Products Inc. (AVP) , the door-to-
door cosmetics seller, said Fred Hassan resigned as non-
executive chairman after about four months in the post to focus
on other professional responsibilities.  Board member Doug Conant will replace Hassan immediately,
the New York-based company said today in a statement. Chief
Financial Officer Kimberly Ross also was named to the board,
effective May 2, to maintain the minimum number of board members
required by Avon’s bylaws. Ross will step down once a new
independent director is appointed, the company said.  Chief Executive Officer Sheri McCoy has been working to
reverse four years of worsening results at Avon by cutting jobs
and exiting smaller markets to reduce costs. Conant joined
Avon’s board in April 2012, less than a year after retiring as
CEO of  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB) , which he was credited with helping
turn around during his decade at the helm.  “This marks the end of the ‘Hassan’ Era, which left many
disappointed,” Wendy Nicholson, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in
 New York , wrote in a report today. Conant “has clearly been
involved with strong, well-run organizations, and given that
Avon seems to lack some of this organizational/structural
strength, we hope that he can be a positive influence.”  She recommends buying the  shares .  Avon  fell  1.3 percent to $22.05 at the close in New York.
The shares have surged 54 percent this year, compared with an 11
percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Hassan Duties  Hassan serves as non-executive chairman of Bausch & Lomb
Holdings Inc., which filed for an initial public offering in
March. Hassan also is a managing director and partner at Warburg
Pincus LLC, which bought Bausch & Lomb in 2007 in a leveraged
buyout. He succeeded former Avon CEO  Andrea Jung  as non-
executive chairman on Jan 1 and steps down after 14 years on
Avon’s board.  McCoy took over as CEO last April, replacing Jung, whose
13-year tenure included declining profits, a foreign bribery
investigation and a takeover attempt from Coty Inc.  Hassan was unavailable for comment, said Maryam Ayromlou, a
spokeswoman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  