-- Lawmakers Weigh How to Curb Mortgage Interest Tax Break
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-04-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/lawmakers-weigh-how-to-curb-mortgage-interest-tax-break.html
U.S. lawmakers are weighing how far
they can go in altering one of the most politically sensitive
provisions in the tax code: the deduction for home mortgage
interest.  While pledging a “careful, thoughtful review,” House Ways
and Means Chairman Dave Camp asked witnesses at a hearing
yesterday for ideas on how to transition to a new, still-
unspecified system. That’s a signal he’s considering changes
that could be disruptive to real estate markets and looking for
ways to soften those effects.  Camp’s scrutiny of the  mortgage  interest deduction is part
of his plan to rewrite the U.S. tax code, curtailing breaks and
lowering tax rates in a way that doesn’t increase the federal
government’s total collections. He wants his committee to
approve a bill this year.  Changing the mortgage interest deduction could affect real
estate agents and home builders, along with the appliance and
furniture industries.  In 2012, 34 million households, or 22 percent of tax
filers, claimed the home mortgage deduction. That cost the
federal government $68 billion in forgone revenue, according to
estimates from the congressional  Joint Committee on Taxation .  The deduction is available only to the one-third of
taxpayers who itemize their deductions and tend to have higher
incomes. More than three-quarters of the benefit in 2012 went to
households with annual incomes exceeding $100,000.  Still, the tax benefit is less skewed toward the nation’s
highest earners than some other breaks, such as lower rates on
long-term capital gains.  Deduction Critics  At the hearing, Camp hosted several critics of the
deduction, including Eric Toder of the nonpartisan Tax Policy
Center and Phillip Swagel, who was a Treasury Department
official for President George W. Bush. Toder said the deduction
doesn’t increase homeownership rates and instead encourages
buyers to borrow more or buy bigger homes.  “The key is really to focus the tax benefits more
carefully,” said Swagel, now a public policy professor at the
University of  Maryland .  Economists and bipartisan groups have suggested ideas for
curbing the mortgage interest deduction without eliminating it.
Those include lowering the $1 million cap on the amount of a
loan that can be deducted and preventing owners from claiming
the break for second homes.  Second Homes  Representative Sander Levin, the top Democrat on the
committee, said he would be wary of eliminating the tax break
for second homes. Many residents of his district in central and
northern  Michigan  have “small second homes” elsewhere in the
state, he said.  “It’s something we need to be careful about in our
proposals,” Levin said.  President  Barack Obama  has proposed limiting the deduction
and other individual tax breaks to the value they would have in
the 28 percent bracket. Under that plan, someone in the top tax
bracket with $10,000 in mortgage interest would receive a tax
break of $2,800, not the $3,960 they get today.  The government also could convert the deduction to a
credit, which would equalize treatment across income groups.  Any of the proposals could be phased in to minimize the
immediate effect on real estate markets or tax bills.  Representative Linda Sanchez, a California Democrat, said
she wants to ensure changes wouldn’t make it more difficult for
working-class families to afford a home.  ‘Bit Skeptical’  “I’m a little bit skeptical of changes to the tax code
that would have the effect of putting that goal out of reach,”
she said.  Real estate industry representatives who testified at the
hearing warned about the potential economic costs of changing
the deduction.  Gary Thomas, president of the National Association of
Realtors, opposed altering the deduction, in part because of who
benefits from the current system.  “It is young middle-class families with children who
already carry more than their fair share of the tax burden,” he
said, citing numbers for who takes advantage of the deduction,
not the size of the benefit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  