-- Tax Evaders Hiding $130 Billion Courted by Yields: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2013-04-26T09:59:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/tax-evaders-hiding-130-billion-courted-by-yields-turkey-credit.html
Turkey is betting a no-questions-
asked policy and some of the highest yields in emerging markets
will help persuade tax evaders to repatriate an estimated $130
billion hidden abroad.  Turkey’s government is asking lawmakers to approve a plan
giving amnesty to individuals and companies for repatriating
assets, according to a bill sent to parliament on April 24.
Funds brought into the country will be taxed at a rate of 2
percent, with no questions asked about how the money was earned,
the draft says.  The proposal comes as lira volatility is the lowest among
10 emerging markets in  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa  and as
banks offer more than 20 times the return for lira deposits than
for dollar deposits, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Turkey has
more chance of success than earlier because the economy is in
better shape, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan said, the
Anatolia news agency reported April 21. Bringing capital back
into the country would improve financial stability, according to
Naz Masraff at Eurasia Group.  “The success of the project depends on details of the
legislation such as whether there will be an investigation
against  money laundering , as required by international
procedures,” Osman Arioglu, former head of the tax authority,
said by telephone yesterday from Istanbul. “Those declaring
their assets must be absolutely sure that there will be no money
laundering probe or retroactive tax.”  ‘No Chase’  Finance Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said during a televised news
conference in Istanbul yesterday that the government “will not
chase the money that will be repatriated.”  Turkish citizens and companies have $130 billion of
portfolio investments abroad, including more than $50 billion in
 U.S. Treasuries , Milliyet newspaper quoted Babacan as saying on
April 17. Turkey’s private sector invested a record $4.5 billion
abroad in 2012, he said.  “Money held in Europe or  tax havens  is no longer safe,”
state-run Anatolia quoted Babacan as saying in  Washington .
“Turkey stands in a very, very different position in 2013 with
its reputation, the strength of the Turkish banking sector and
interest from money that will be brought to  Turkey .”  A three-month deposit in dollars provides an annualized
return of 0.28 percent a year and 0.11 percent in euros,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 5.88
percent for Turkish liras, the fourth-highest among 29 major
currencies worldwide, the data show.  Capital Inflows  “The government hopes to reduce Turkey’s over-reliance on
short-term inflows, which leave the country susceptible to
external shocks,” Masraff, a London-based analyst at Eurasia
Group, said in an e-mail yesterday. “Repatriation law is a way
to bring back capital into the country” and improve the way in
which the current-account  deficit  is financed, she said.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar
bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries rose four basis points to 202
at 1 p.m. in Istanbul today, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Diversified index showed. That compares with an average of 285
basis points for  emerging markets .  Yields on two-year  notes  dropped one basis points, or 0.01
percentage point, to 5.45 percent. While that’s the lowest since
Bloomberg records began in 2005, it’s the fourth-highest rate
among 19 emerging market and compares with 0.23 percent on U.S.
Treasuries and 0.012 percent on German notes.  Biggest Drop  Turkish yields have declined the most among 20 major
emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg over the past year, from
9.45 percent on April 26, 2012. They’re down from an average of
11.7 percent in 2009 when Turkey last offered an amnesty. The
decline may make repatriation less appealing, according to
Sertan Kargin, chief economist at Eczacibasi Securities in
Istanbul.  “This may prove a setback as the holders of savings abroad
may be less enthusiastic to return to Turkey given the more
limited yield opportunities than four years ago,” Kargin said
in an e-mailed report today. Lower tax rates “may not be
sufficient to encourage them at this juncture.”  Five-year credit-default swaps on Turkey rose one basis
points to 124, compared with 140 for  Russia , rated one step
higher than Turkey at  Fitch Ratings . The contracts, which
increase as perceptions of creditworthiness deteriorate, pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Investment Grade  Fitch gave Turkey its first investment-grade rating in 18
years in November, citing easing near-term financial risks, a
moderate and declining government debt burden, a sound banking
system and favorable growth prospects.  Turkey’s current-account  shortfall  narrowed to $47.5
billion in 2012 from a record $77 billion the previous year, the
biggest worldwide after the U.S., as the central bank tightened
monetary policy to curb lending.  The currency rebounded 6 percent last year after tumbling
18 percent in 2011, the biggest depreciation worldwide. It
declined 0.1 percent to 1.8008 today, leaving the lira 1 percent
weaker this year.  Amnesty Program  Under an amnesty program that began in November 2008 and
ended at the close of 2009, Turkish citizens and companies
repatriated 27 billion liras, equivalent to about $17 billion at
that time, former tax chief Arioglu said yesterday. Arioglu is
now chairman of consultancy firm,  AKT Bagimsiz Denetim AS .  “The government tried this sort of scheme back in 2008 as
well, but due to the onset of the financial crisis, it wasn’t a
huge success,” Mariya Gancheva, a London-based credit analyst
at  Mitsubishi UFJ (8306) , said in an e-mail yesterday. “With the
economy doing well, and an investment grade in hand, this time
the scheme has a much better chance of succeeding.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  