-- Baht in Worst Week Since 2008 on Controls Risk: Bangkok Mover
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-04-26T02:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/baht-in-worst-week-since-2008-on-controls-risk-bangkok-mover.html
Thailand ’s baht fell, headed for
its biggest weekly decline since 2008, on concern monetary
authorities will intervene in the  currency market  and introduce
measures to slow the pace of gains that hurt exports.  The baht dropped the most in more than a year yesterday
after the Bank of Thailand said its board approved a plan to
allow foreign-exchange reserves to be invested in bonds issued
by state agencies overseas. Commerce Minister Boonsong
Teriyapirom said yesterday export growth may be lower than 5
percent this year, compared with a target of 8 percent to 9
percent. Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra called a meeting on
the baht, the Thai language Krungthep Turakij newspaper reported
today, without saying where it got the information.  “It actually suggests that they are now becoming more
serious and could potentially introduce further measures down
the road,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a Hong Kong-based senior
foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of  Nova Scotia , which was
the second most-accurate forecaster for Asian currencies over
the past year. “I think it will not only incentivize baht
profit taking, but also open the door to baht shorts,” he said,
referring to a selling stance on the currency.  The baht depreciated 0.4 percent today and 1.9 percent this
week to 29.23 per dollar as of 9:15 a.m. in Bangkok, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The weekly loss was the biggest
since the five-day period ended June 6, 2008 and pared this
year’s appreciation to 4.6 percent, the best performance in  Asia .
Bank of Nova Scotia predicts the baht will weaken to 30.4 by the
end of June.  More Downside  Brown Brothers  Harriman & Co. and Morgan Stanley said in
research notes yesterday that the baht has further room to
weaken. Morgan Stanley sees further downside in the short term
to 29.50 per dollar. “We think foreign-exchange intervention
and more regulatory measures are likely should the baht continue
to strengthen, though we doubt more draconian measures will be
introduced,” according to Brown Brothers’ currency strategist
Ilan Solot in  London .  The baht touched 28.56 on April 22 and April 19, the
strongest level since a devaluation in July 1997 that sparked
the Asian financial crisis, as investors increased holdings of
the nation’s debt. Global funds  bought  $2.1 billion more
sovereign notes than they sold this month through yesterday,
taking this year’s net purchases to $12 billion, Thai Bond
Market Association  data  show.  Bonds Fall  Prime Minister Yingluck and Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-
Ranong will discuss the baht’s appreciation with officials from
the Bank of Thailand,  finance ministry  and related agencies,
Krungthep Turakij reported today. A meeting will be held at 3
p.m. and will likely focus on the outlook for the baht rather
than any new measures to curb the currency, it said.  Kittiratt and central bank Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul
have repeatedly said there’s no need to impose controls to stem
inflows.  The central bank is worried about the baht’s rally this
year, Assistant Governor Chantavarn Sucharitakul said on April
24. The comment came after Prasarn said April 19 that the baht
has started to move beyond its fundamentals and Assistant
Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said April 22 that it has risen
“too much and too quickly.”  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, climbed six basis
points this week to 5.34 percent. The gauge fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, today.  The yield on the government’s 5.125 percent debt due March
2018 rose five basis points from a week ago to 3.17 percent and
was up two basis points today, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The rate reached 3.1 percent on April 18, the lowest level since
November 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  