-- Baidu’s Tumble on Earnings Trims Advance: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-04-26T20:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/baidu-s-tumble-on-earnings-trims-advance-china-overnight.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  sank in  New York , paring
the biggest weekly advance since January in the benchmark gauge
of Chinese U.S.-listed stocks, after the Internet company’s
earnings fell short of analysts’ estimates.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese equities in the U.S. fell 1.4 percent to 91.17, reducing
the weekly gain to 2.4 percent. Baidu, the Beijing-based owner
of China’s most-used search engine, slid the most since
February.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC)  tumbled to a four-year low as
its stock was downgraded, while  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. 
dropped 4.3 percent after reporting a loss.  Baidu’s net income in the first quarter was 6.8 percent
below the median analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg. Profit
rose 8.5 percent, trailing an average increase of 64 percent in
the previous five quarters, as advertiser spending dwindled and
China’s growth slows. The company, whose stock has slumped 36
percent in the past year, is seeking to buy mobile applications
as consumers shift to smartphones from personal computers, Chief
Executive Officer Robin Li said yesterday.  “Baidu is spending a lot of money to maintain its market
position and search for new growth engines,” Echo He, an
analyst at Maxim Group LLC in New York who rates the stock sell,
said in a phone interview. “The investment doesn’t necessarily
translate into revenue growth. The profit margin will continue
to be under pressure.”  ETF Retreats  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., slipped 0.3 percent to $36.94,
paring the ETF’s climb this week to 2.5 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.2 percent to 1,582.24 after data
showed the  U.S. economy  grew less than forecast in the first
quarter and  consumer confidence  fell to a three-month low. The
gauge added 1.7 percent this week.  Baidu sank 7.9 percent to $85.02, the biggest one-day
decline since Feb. 5. The company -- which accounted for 82.3
percent of Chinese search-engine queries in the fourth quarter,
according to Bloomberg Industries -- wants to extend its
dominance of China’s search market to mobile devices and favors
acquisitions over building the company, CEO Li said yesterday.  Li said Baidu’s most recent purchase, online video company
iQiyi.com, was still “burning money.”  American depositary receipts of Yanzhou,  China ’s fourth-
largest coal producer, slid 3.9 percent to $10.72, the lowest
level since May 1, 2009. The company, which reported April 25 a
77 percent drop in first-quarter net income, was downgraded to
sell from hold by ICBC International Securities Ltd. equity
analyst Anna Yu, who reduced the Hong Kong-listed stock’s target
price 42 percent to HK$7.04.  BYD Rallies  Aluminum Corp., known as Chalco, slumped to $9.23 in New
York. Prices of the lightweight metal in  London  dropped 8
percent on average in the first quarter amid an industry glut.
The Beijing-based company has posted losses in six straight
quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BYD Co. (BYDDF) , the Chinese automaker part-owned by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , climbed 4.3 percent to $3.60
in over-the-counter trading in New York after forecasting a 31-
fold surge in first-half profit. Shares jumped the most since
November 2011 in Hong Kong.  The company, based in Shenzhen, predicted an increase in
auto sales and said rising prices for photovoltaic products are
helping narrow its solar sector losses.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  climbed 7.8 percent to a two-month high of
$4.84, leading gains on the Bloomberg China-US gauge. Fellow
solar manufacturer Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. jumped 5.8
percent to $2.39, the highest level since March 20.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese shares
slumped 1 percent to 2177.91 yesterday, the lowest level since
Dec. 24, for a weekly slide of 3 percent. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in  Hong Kong  added 0.6 percent to 10,834.08,
extending its jump this week to 2.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  