-- Bank of America Said to Market First Public Europe CMBS in 2013
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-04-26T15:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/bank-of-america-said-to-market-first-public-europe-cmbs-in-2013.html
  Bank of America Corp . is said to
be offering 1.06 billion euros ($1.38 billion) of bonds backed
by a loan used to buy German apartment buildings, in the first
public deal of its kind in  Europe  this year.  The commercial mortgage-backed bond transaction is backed
by a debt raised by WOBA Dresden GmbH, a unit of  Gagfah SA (GFJ) ,
according to a person familiar with the plan, who declined to be
identified before the transaction is completed. Gagfah is owned
by New York-based private-equity and hedge-fund manager  Fortress
Investment Group LLC. (FIG)   It’s the first European CMBS publicly marketed since
Deutsche Bank AG priced 754 million euros of bonds in September,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  data show, and was the only transaction of
its kind in 2012, according to  Fitch Ratings . The extra yield
investors in the region demand to hold securities backed by
commercial mortgages dropped to 275 basis points over benchmarks
from a record 1,000 basis points in 2009.  “Refinancing risk still exists, but the pressure on German
multi-family housing is less intense than in many other asset
classes, including most European CMBS, where little bank funding
is available,” Fitch wrote in a report on Feb. 22.  The Bank of America transaction, to be known as Taurus 2013
(GMF 1) PLC and is made of six portions, with four to be
publicly offered, said the person familiar with the deal.
Officials at Bank of America didn’t return calls seeking
comment.  Taurus is the securitization of a loan that Gagfah, the
third-biggest owner of German real estate by market value,
received from Bank of America to pay back 1.04 billion euros of
debt maturing in May. That loan was originally used to buy
38,000 apartments in 2006, held by Gagfah’s Woba unit in
Dresden.  Fortress is among the private-equity firms facing debt
deadlines after buying German real estate with the cheap credit
available in the years before the global financial crisis. The
firm owns 66 percent of Gagfah, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  