-- BASF Profit Beats Estimates on Crop to Care-Chemical Mix
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-04-26T10:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/basf-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-on-agricultural-che.html
BASF SE (BAS)  posted first-quarter profit
that beat analyst estimates as better-than-predicted orders for
herbicides and fungicides cushioned lower demand for paper and
pigment additives at the biggest chemical company.  Earnings before interest, tax and one-time items increased
10 percent to 2.21 billion euros ($2.88 billion), the
Ludwigshafen, Germany-based company said today in a statement.
The average estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg survey was for
2.09 billion euros. The stock gained as much as 3.3 percent.  Chief Executive Officer Kurt Bock’s purchase of seed-
treatment supplier Becker Underwood Inc. last year helped boost
results while earnings at the division that makes ingredients
for shampoo and vitamins need to improve, the company said
today. The CEO is also cutting 940 jobs to counter increased
competition in areas such as additives used in construction and
plastics.  “There are big differences if you look at the segments,”
said Oliver Schwarz, a chemical analyst at MM Warburg. “Profit
in agricultural chemicals was significantly stronger than
expected. In the performance-products area, there is a lot to do
before it reaches the level BASF would like it to be at.”  The shares gained as much as 2.33 euros, the biggest jump
in more than seven months, to 72.33 euros and were up 2.8
percent as of 12:30 p.m., valuing the company at 66 billion
euros. Before today, the stock dropped 1.6 percent this year,
while the Bloomberg  Europe  Chemicals Index gained 0.3 percent.  Agricultural Boost  Sales rose 4.8 percent to 19.7 billion euros in the first
quarter, beating a 19.4 billion-euro estimate.  BASF’s agricultural unit increased profit by 19 percent  as
customers in Europe,  North America  and  China  ordered more
fungicides. U.S. rival  DuPont Co. (DD)  also beat estimates in the
three months through March as profit from crop seeds and
pesticides hit a record.  Profitability for petrochemicals improved after BASF passed
on higher raw-material prices to customers, it said today. The
chemicals unit, which posted earnings that were 17 percent
higher, benefited from stronger demand for intermediates such as
butanediol, used in technical plastics, solvents and elastic
fibers.  Earnings before special items at the performance-products
unit dropped 16 percent. Chief Financial Officer Hans-Ulrich Engel said today the company is still assessing potential job
cuts at the division after announcing 500 positions will go
earlier this week. Global  product management  for pigments and
resins is being pooled in  Hong Kong  and leather and textile
research and development will be moved to  Shanghai , BASF said.  Job Cuts  “Changes are often uncomfortable and awkward at the
beginning,” Bock said today at the company’s annual shareholder
meeting in Mannheim. “More standardization and new competitors
have changed the market significantly. That’s especially the
case for pigments and plastic additives as well as water,
leather and textile chemicals.”  About 400 positions are being cut at the construction
chemicals business, which is part of the unit called functional
materials and solutions. Earnings at the division, which also
makes coatings and plastics, dropped 7 percent in the quarter.  Rival  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest
petrochemical maker, said earlier this month it plans to cut
about 1,050 positions and will close some assets in Europe as a
response to diminished demand.  Clariant AG (CLN)  Chief Executive
Officer Hariolf Kottmann has said the Swiss company’s headcount
will probably drop to about 16,000 after planned unit sales from
21,200 at the end of 2012.  Targets Intact  BASF, reporting under new accounting standards for the
first time, is sticking to a full-year forecast for sales, and
earnings to rise from last year’s restated 72.1 billion euros
and 6.6 billion euros respectively.  “BASF appears to be reacting quickly and decisively to
tougher conditions in some segments with acceleration in cost
cutting and focus on cash management evident,” Andrew Benson,
an analyst at Citigroup, said in a note to clients today. “Its
ability to achieve its aim of Ebit growth this year is likely to
hang on whether improved volume growth momentum returns during
the second half of 2013.”  The chemical maker also reiterated medium-term profit and
sales targets. Ebitda will probably rise to about 14 billion
euros on sales of 80 billion euros in 2015 and increase to 22
billion euros in profit on revenue of 110 billion euros in 2020.  “It’s ambitious and demands a big commitment,” Bock said
today about the company’s targets. “We will have to roll up our
sleeves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  