-- Bayer Wins Bid to Block Norbrook Sale of Generic Baytril
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-04-26T16:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/bayer-wins-bid-to-block-norbrook-sale-of-generic-baytril.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  won an agreement from the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration to block sales of a generic
form of the livestock antibiotic Baytril 100 made by Norbrook
Laboratories Ltd.  The FDA on April 19 agreed to withhold its approval of
Norbrook’s Enroflox 100 product to treat bovine respiratory
disease. The decision comes two days after a federal judge in
 Washington  ruled that the agency offered no evidence it
considered Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer’s concerns that the
generic would be used for a so-called off-label dosage.  “FDA itself acknowledges that its action has not been
regular; it failed to respond to the citizen petition for years
and failed to provide a reasoned basis for rejecting it before
approving Enroflox,” U.S. District Judge Rosemary Collyer said
in an opinion made public today.  The FDA approved Norbrook’s application for Enroflox on
March 29. Norbrook, based in the U.K., sought FDA approval in
2008 to market a generic version of Baytril 100 that would be
labeled as a multiday dosing regimen.  Bayer sued the FDA on April 10, alleging it told the agency
in 2006 that the generic version of its product will be used in
a single dose.  Christopher Kelly, an FDA spokesman, said the agency didn’t
have an immediate comment on the agreement. A woman who answered
the phone at Norbrook’s U.S. office in Lenexa,  Kansas , and
wouldn’t identify herself said the company would have no comment
on the matter.  The case is Bayer Healthcare LLC v. U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, 13-cv-00487, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  