-- BBVA Profit Jumps as One-Time Gains Offset Property Loss
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-04-26T06:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/bbva-profit-jumps-as-one-time-gains-offset-property-loss.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
Spain’s second-biggest bank, said first-quarter profit jumped as
one-time gains offset a drop in Spanish loan revenue and bigger
losses from real estate.  Net income  rose to 1.73 billion euros ($2.25 billion) from
1.01 billion euros in the same period a year earlier, the
Bilbao, Spain-based lender said in a filing to regulators today.
The earnings compared with the 1.76 billion-euro average
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 10 analysts.  BBVA and  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s biggest bank, are
predicting a surge in profits as they put the task of cleaning
up losses from Spanish real estate behind them. The weak economy
in Spain, where  unemployment  rose to 27 percent in the first
quarter, still poses risks for BBVA even as asset sales and
profit from  emerging markets  such as Mexico buoy earnings.  “The Spanish situation is difficult but the story is
easier for them because they are in these high-growth markets,”
John Raymond, an analyst at CreditSights in  London , said before
the earnings were published.  BBVA said earnings were bolstered by one-time gains during
the quarter after selling a Mexican pensions business and
booking profits from a reinsurance agreement.  Net interest income rose 0.8 percent in the first quarter
from a year ago to 3.62 billion euros as gross loans increased 4
percent, BBVA said. Bad loans as a proportion of total lending
expanded to 5.3 percent from 5.1 percent in December.  Shares Outperform  BBVA’s shares have advanced 4.9 percent this year compared
with a 4.2 percent gain for the 40-member Bloomberg Europe Banks
and Financials Services Index. Shares in Banco Santander, which
yesterday reported a 26 percent drop in quarterly earnings that
missed analysts’ estimates, fell 10 percent.  Profit from BBVA’s Spanish unit, where losses from real
estate were omitted from earnings for the first time, rose 54
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier to 569 million
euros. Net interest income dropped 8.8 percent to 1.07 billion
euros. Real estate losses climbed to 346 million euros from 300
million euros a year earlier.  Earnings in  Mexico  rose to 435 million euros from 430
million euros a year ago, BBVA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  