-- BOJ Puts Credibility on Line With Inflation Call as Prices Slump
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-04-26T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/boj-puts-credibility-on-line-with-inflation-call-as-prices-slump.html
 Bank of Japan board members
forecasting an end to more than a decade of deflation may need
to add to an already unprecedented monetary stimulus plan should
 consumer prices  fail to align with their projections by October.  The nine-member panel yesterday predicted that consumer
prices, excluding a pending sales-tax increase and volatile
fresh food costs, will rise 0.7 percent in the year through
March, then 1.4 percent and 1.9 percent in the following two
years. The measure slid 0.5 percent last month.  With companies from Sony Corp. to  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914) 
boosting profit forecasts based on a tumbling yen and surging
stocks sparked by Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s monetary expansion,
the risk is continued price declines will erode BOJ credibility.
The BOJ’s next forecasts are due in October, suggesting another 
dab of stimulus could come that month, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and 
Barclays Plc said.  “Kuroda will probably have to bolster stimulus in October
as prices won’t be on the desired track,” said Kyohei Morita,
chief economist at Barclays in Tokyo. At the same time, 
“boosting consumer prices by more stimulus will get harder and 
harder. His credibility will be at stake.''  The  yen  rose yesterday after a government report showed the
biggest drop in the core consumer price index in two years,
the BOJ kept its monetary stance unchanged and later released
its economic forecasts. Against the dollar, it advanced 0.6
percent to 98.64 as of 6 p.m. in  Tokyo . The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average closed down 0.3 percent.  Yen’s Slide  Since mid-November, the yen has tumbled 18 percent and the
Nikkei climbed 60 percent on optimism about Abenomics, the
reflationary policy framework promoted by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who won office in December and installed Kuroda in March.
Yesterday, Abe’s economic adviser, Etsuro Honda, said that the
BOJ would achieve a 2 percent inflation goal.  Japan Tobacco, the world’s best-performing cigarette maker
this year, closed at a record yesterday after its earnings
showed the benefit of a more competitive exchange rate. Sony
this week reported its first annual profit in five years.  Nomura Holdings Inc. yesterday said its quarterly profit
more than tripled to the highest in seven years, as investment
banking fees and brokerage commissions surged. Stock trading
volume has boosted brokerage-fee income and Japanese stock
offerings have tripled, to 1.7 trillion yen ($17 billion) so far
this year.  Kuroda and his colleagues will need the improvement in
corporate sentiment to feed through to wages and investment for
their easing to be effective. On a sustained basis, consumer
prices haven’t risen at the 2 percent pace the BOJ set as its
target in January since the early 1990s.  Wage Effects  “Wages are the most important parameter” for prices of
services, which may remain flat amid a modest gain in the cost
of goods, said Masaaki Kanno, chief Japan economist at JPMorgan
Chase in Tokyo and a former BOJ official. “At the earliest, 
the BOJ will ease further in October, when the next CPI 
forecasts come out. Or maybe in January next year when the
bank is forced to admit it is hard to achieve 2 percent
inflation in time.”  Policy board members are divided over the outlook for
inflation, with some anticipating that prices won’t rise at even
half the targeted rate of 2 percent. While the highest of
their projections for fiscal 2015 is for a 2.3 percent gain
excluding the tax increase, the lowest is 0.8 percent.  Former investment-bank economists Takahide Kiuchi and
Takehiro Sato, who joined the board last year, opposed
yesterday’s statement that inflation is likely to reach 2
percent in the latter half of the three-year BOJ forecast
horizon, Kuroda told reporters at a press briefing. Kuroda said
he personally thinks the goal will be achieved in the 2015
fiscal year.  Policy Adjustments  Kuroda said that no board member judged that additional
easing was needed now, and that policy adjustments would be made
if necessary. The bank will keep its stimulus until stable 2
percent gains in consumer prices are realized, he said.  The BOJ yesterday restated a commitment to enlarge the
monetary base, a gauge that includes physical currency in
circulation plus assets financial institutions hold at the BOJ,
by 60 trillion yen to 70 trillion yen a year.  Eisuke Sakakibara, an ex-Finance Ministry colleague, has
predicted Kuroda will fail to achieve the 2 percent price goal,
and former BOJ board member Atsushi Mizuno sees the central bank
hitting a “wall of reality” as bond purchases escalate risks
of a market bubble. Kazumasa Iwata, a former deputy governor,
deemed Kuroda’s two-year goal “impossible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  