-- Boston Bombing Suspect Moved to Same Prison as Rajaratnam
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-04-26T15:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/boston-bombing-suspect-moved-to-federal-prison-medical-facility.html
Marathon bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was moved from a Boston hospital to the federal medical
prison in  Massachusetts  where former hedge fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam  is serving an 11-year sentence for  insider trading .  Tsarnaev, 19, was transferred to Federal Medical Center
 Devens , on the site of a decommissioned military base 39 miles
(63 kilometers) west of Boston, the U.S. Marshals Service said
today in a statement.  Tsarnaev, who was apprehended April 19 after a four-day
manhunt that paralyzed Boston, is charged with using and
conspiring to use a weapon of mass destruction in the double
bombing that killed three people and injured more than 200 near
the finish line of the road race. He may face the death
penalty if convicted.  He had been recovering from wounds at Boston’s Beth Israel
Deaconess Medical Center, where he told investigators that he
and his brother Tamerlan Tsarnaev acted alone after finding
bomb-making information on the Internet. Tamerlan, 26, died
trying to elude capture.  1,000 Offenders  Devens houses about 1,000 male offenders, said John 
Colautti, a spokesman for the center. It’s designated as an 
administrative facility, which means it houses inmates of 
different security classifications, from white-collar 
criminals such as Rajaratnam to mobsters and sex offenders,
requiring specialized or long-term medical care, according to 
the  Federal Bureau of Prisons .  In addition to the medical center, Devens includes a
minimum-security prison camp that holds about 124 inmates,
Colautti said in a phone interview.  Tsarnaev is being held in an area of single cells each
containing a sink, toilet and bed, Colautti said. Each unit is
equipped with a solid steel door that has an observation
window and a food slot, Colautti said. Medical providers make
periodic rounds, Colautti said.  Rajaratnam, co-founder of Galleon Group LLC, was convicted
by a Manhattan federal jury in 2011 of directing the biggest
hedge fund insider-trading scheme in U.S. history.  The case is U.S. v. Tsarnaev, 13-mj-02106, U.S. District
court, District of Massachusetts ( Boston ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawrence@me.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  