-- Brown-Vitter Bill Could Force Banks to Shrink, S&P Says
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-04-26T01:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/brown-vitter-bill-could-force-banks-to-shrink-s-p-says.html
U.S. banks could be forced to break
up or shed assets because of a push by federal lawmakers to
raise capital requirements at the largest firms,  Standard &
Poor’s  said.  Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, and Republican
 David Vitter  of Louisiana unveiled legislation this week that
would mandate a 15 percent capital cushion for banks with more
than $500 billion in assets. Meeting the requirements may force
lenders to raise as much as $1.2 trillion in additional equity
and would drive down returns, S&P said yesterday in a report.  “We do not see equity markets being able to meet the
massive level of common equity the bill requires of the largest
banks,” the analysts wrote in the report. “The largest banks
would need to break up or deleverage.”  Supporters of the legislation said it would guard taxpayers
against future bailouts and end “too-big-to-fail” firms as the
Dodd-Frank Act fails to address the systemic threat posed by the
largest banks. The measure faces obstacles to enactment, with
 Tim Johnson , chairman of the Senate Banking Committee and a
South Dakota Democrat, saying regulators should finish work on
Dodd-Frank before determining whether it solves too big to fail.  If the bill becomes law and some banks splinter, they would
be at a disadvantage to international competitors, S&P said.
Firms choosing to cut assets could cause a credit crisis,
tipping the  U.S. economy  into a recession, the analysts wrote.  “Rating implications would likely be neutral to negative
for those banks the bill affects,” S&P wrote.  The ratings firm said it would monitor lenders to determine
whether they should still be considered systemically important,
and that it may reduce the level of support factored into the
ratings, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  