-- Bundesbank Slams ECB Bond-Buy Plan in Opinion for German Court
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-04-26T10:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/bundesbank-slams-ecb-bond-buy-plan-in-opinion-for-german-court.html
The Bundesbank criticized the
 European Central Bank ’s bond-buying plan in an opinion for
 Germany ’s Constitutional Court, saying diverging interest rates
within the euro region aren’t necessarily something the ECB
should fix.  “Even though monetary policy is having different effects
within the euro area, it is questionable whether these
differences constitute a malfunctioning to be addressed by
monetary policy,” the Bundesbank wrote in an opinion for the
court dated Dec. 21 and published by the Handelsblatt newspaper
today. The Bundesbank confirmed the authenticity of the
 document . Rising sovereign bond yields “cannot be used
definitively as an explanation for a disturbance of monetary-
policy transmission,” the Bundesbank opinion says.  Germany’s top court has scheduled hearings for June 11 and
12 to look into cases challenging the nation’s participation in
the European Stability Mechanism and ECB policies. The
Frankfurt-based ECB last year announced unlimited bond purchases
for countries that request a bailout and commit to an overhaul
of their economies. The program, known as Outright Monetary
Transactions, is yet to be used. Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann was the only ECB policy maker to vote against the
measure.  Draghi’s Justification  ECB President  Mario Draghi  has justified OMT by saying it
addresses unwarranted fears of a euro breakup that are hampering
transmission of monetary policy in some nations. The policy has
helped to reduce borrowing costs for governments in crisis-hit
countries such as Italy and  Spain , where bond yields surged last
year in response to widening budget deficits.  “It’s not possible to say whether a ‘distortion’ in yield
developments for sovereign bonds is due to fundamentally
justified causes or whether there are potential exaggerations,
irrationalities or other forms of inefficiencies,” the
Bundesbank says in the document.  “Higher refinancing costs for the private sector could
also reflect higher national fiscal risks,” it wrote. “That
wouldn’t be a development for monetary policy to address, but
rather a direct consequence of national fiscal policy.”  The Bundesbank said ECB bond purchases under OMT would be
different from those of other central banks because they target
assets of poor  credit quality , thereby increasing risks on the
ECB’s balance sheet.  It also questioned whether the ECB will be able to ensure
that countries applying for bond-market intervention abide by
the conditions it sets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  