-- CapitaLand 1st-Quarter Profit Rises 41% on Gains in Home Sales
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-04-26T10:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/capitaland-1st-quarter-profit-rises-41-on-gains-in-home-sales.html
CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) , Southeast Asia’s
biggest developer, said first-quarter profit rose 41 percent on
higher home sales in Singapore and China.  Net income  climbed to S$188.2 million ($152 million) in the
three months ended March 31, from S$133.2 million a year
earlier, the Singapore-based developer said in a stock exchange
statement today. Sales rose 3.2 percent to S$661.9 million.  CapitaLand is reorganizing into four main units to help
focus on its key markets and has said it may exit some projects
in the U.K.,  India  and the Middle East. The developer in January
said it will focus on China and Singapore, its two biggest
markets by assets.  “We will sharpen our focus on the two key markets of
 Singapore  and China for sustainable growth,” Lim Ming Yan,
president and group chief executive officer at CapitaLand said
in the statement. “The group’s recent streamlining in January
allows us to be more nimble and able to respond more quickly to
market opportunities.”  CapitaLand said it sold 544 residential units in the island
state valued at S$1.3 billion in the quarter, matching the sales
value for all of last year. Its China business sold 955 units
for about S$400 million, a threefold increase over the same
period a year ago.  Singapore’s March home sales rose to a record as more
developers started marketing new residential projects, raising
concerns the government will introduce more cooling measures to
tame property prices.  Prices climbed to a record in the first quarter, according
to government data on April 1. The latest measures in January,
the seventh round of curbs in about four years, included an
increase in the stamp duties for homebuyers by 5 percentage
points to 7 percentage points.  CapitaLand’s two core markets of Singapore and  China 
accounted for 81.2 percent of the group’s profit before interest
and tax as of March 31, the company said today.  The shares gained 2 percent to S$3.65 at the close in
Singapore, before the results were announced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  