-- Carbon Markets Drive China, India Climate Efforts, Center Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-04-26T16:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/carbon-markets-drive-china-india-climate-efforts-center-says.html
Carbon markets are a key driver for
investment in the biggest emerging nations’ greenhouse-gas
reducing efforts, and allowing them to collapse would be a
“disaster,” according to the Center for American Progress.  The  United Nations carbon market  has spurred $356 billion
of investment in emission cuts, encouraging climate-protection
policies in at least 10 nations including  China ,  India  and
Brazil, the Washington-based  policy institute  said in a study,
citing UN data. More than 3,000 projects in China supported $202
billion in investment and seven pilot carbon markets.  Confidence in carbon markets is faltering as a surplus of
emission permits and offsets pushes prices to record lows,
deterring companies from investing in low-carbon technologies.
Unflattering media coverage has also encouraged an incorrect
perception worldwide that carbon markets are “fatally flawed,”
according to the  center’s report .  “If we let these things collapse, you’re going to undercut
emission reduction in the nations where we see the biggest
growth today,”  Andrew Light , a co-author of the report, said
today by phone from Washington. “There’s still a lot these
markets can do” to help avert a warming climate.  Governments around the world should hold an emergency
climate summit at the end of this year “to avert a climate
catastrophe, with a strong emphasis on using carbon markets,”
according to the report obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The Center for American Progress was set up in 2003 by  John
Podesta , a chief of staff for former President  Bill Clinton .  Price Slump  Certified Emission Reductions from the UN’s Clean
Development Mechanism, the world’s biggest greenhouse-gas
offsetting market, plunged to a record 1 euro cent ($0.013) a
metric ton on April 24, according to data from the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in London. CER futures were as high as 23.38
euros a ton in July 2008.  European Union emission allowances have dropped 58 percent
in the past year and plunged to a record on April 17 after the
bloc’s parliament voted against a plan to temporarily cut supply
in the 54 billion-euro market.  The UN’s CDM demonstrated to India’s businesses and its
government that climate policy need not be a threat,  Rajendra Pachauri , the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize winner and director general
of the Energy and Resource Institute in  New Delhi , said in an e-
mailed statement.  “The experience has helped accelerate India’s efforts to
fight  climate change ,” he said, commenting on the report.
“India took what it learned from the CDM to help set up markets
to trade renewable electricity and energy efficiency.”  The EU’s market and emerging emissions-trading systems in
California, Australia, South Korea, and China can boost their
impact on the climate by loosening any restrictions on imported
offset credits, the center said.  “Countries should make a political commitment to increase
demand for global carbon-market credits, either by setting up a
market-stabilization fund or by pledging to purchase a minimum
quantity of credits from developing nations,” it recommended.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  