-- Carlyle Joins Pantheon in Opening Colombia, Peru Offices
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-04-26T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/carlyle-joins-pantheon-in-opening-colombia-peru-offices.html
Private-equity firms including
 Carlyle Group LP (CG) , Pantheon Ventures LLP and Victoria Capital
Partners LP are opening offices in  Colombia  and  Peru  to find
deals as economic growth there outpaces Brazil’s.  Pantheon will open a Bogota office next month, said Jaime Londono, who will head the division for the London-based firm.
Victoria, based in  Buenos Aires , plans to have a local presence
in Peru in about 18 months, managing partner Carlos Garcia said.
Washington-based Carlyle opened a  Lima  office last year and is
considering one for Colombia, said Fernando Borges, head of the
company’s South American buyout team.  Peru’s economy expanded  6.3 percent  last year after
tripling in the past decade, and Colombia grew  4 percent , led by
housing, retailing and mining. Growth was  0.9 percent  in  Brazil ,
which the Latin American Venture Capital Association said was
the biggest recipient of private-equity investments in the
region in 2012. Pantheon follows private-equity firms Advent
International Corp., HarbourVest Partners LLC and Southern Cross
Group, which set up Bogota offices in the past two years.  “In some Latin American countries such as Peru and
Colombia you still have opportunities that aren’t available
anymore in Brazil due to high valuations,” Patrice Etlin, a
managing partner for  Latin America  at Advent, said in an
interview in Sao Paulo.  Advent’s Deal  Advent opened its Bogota office in October 2011, and made
its first investment there three months later. With demand for
health care rising across Latin America, Boston-based Advent and
Essex Woodlands Health Ventures  acquired  a controlling stake in
Grupo Farmaceutico Biotoscana SA at the end of 2011 in a deal to
help fuel the Colombian drug-maker’s growth into Mexico and
Brazil. It was the first Latin American investment for  Palo
Alto , California-based Essex Woodlands, according to the firm.
The value of the deal wasn’t disclosed.  Colombia received an investment-grade rating in 2011 for
the first time in a decade as improved security bolstered
economic growth.  Standard & Poor’s  raised its debt assessment
one step to BBB on April 24, citing increased tax revenue and
peace talks with rebels.  Private-equity investors looking to expand in Colombia and
Peru are increasing, according to Cate Ambrose, the venture-
capital association’s president.  The two countries accounted for 11 percent of private-
equity deals in Latin America last year, up from a combined 10
percent in 2011, according to  the venture-capital association .
Peru posted the biggest increase in transactions, with 12 deals
last year versus two in 2011. Brazil accounted for 62 percent of
the market in 2012, up from 52 percent in 2011, the
association’s data show.  Brazil Market  Because of its size, Brazil has more opportunities for
bigger deals, Ambrose said in a telephone interview from  New
York .  “Colombia and Peru are attractive markets for private
equity given their strong growth over the last few years,
prospects for continued expansion and friendly business
environment,” Victoria’s Garcia said in a telephone interview
from Buenos Aires. “The size of their economies are also
relevant,” Garcia said, adding that a local office helps in
finding opportunities and overseeing them more closely.  Focused on investments in  South America , Victoria manages
two private-equity funds and co-investment funds with capital
commitments of more than $1.5 billion. The buyout firm still has
about $850 million to invest in companies with revenue of at
least $75 million a year, according to Garcia.  Smaller Deals  Etlin at Advent said Latin American transactions outside
Brazil generally offer smaller deal sizes, between $10 million
and $100 million. Advent has a fund of $1.65 billion for Latin
America and still needs to invest half of it, he said.  Carlyle raised $308 million for Peru in January and may
invest in Colombia through its offices in Lima and Sao Paulo,
Borges said.  “Our focus in Latin America ex-Brazil is Peru, where we
have a team of four people that may increase until the end of
the year,” Borges said in an e-mail, adding that Carlyle may
open an office in Bogota, though not in the near term.  Carlyle teamed up with  Credicorp Ltd. (BAP) , Peru’s largest
financial-services firm, to find investments in health care,
retail and consumer businesses, as well as mining, construction,
infrastructure and education, according to a statement.  The firm, which hasn’t yet made an investment in Colombia
or Peru, sees less deal competition in both countries compared
with Brazil, where private-equity firms have been established
longer.  “Colombia has a dynamic economy, a stable regulatory
framework and a business-friendly environment,” said Pantheon’s
Londono, who will share the Colombia office with an associate,
Ana Maria Zarruk. He said the firm may expand the team should
investment opportunities continue to increase.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  