-- CBOE Preaches to Vegas Choir as ‘Glitch’ Crashes Exchange
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-04-26T14:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/cboe-preaches-to-vegas-choir-as-glitch-crashes-exchange.html
As Ed Provost took the stage at the
Green Valley Ranch Resort & Spa in  Las Vegas  to explain how a
software malfunction had shut the  Chicago Board Options Exchange 
for three-and-a-half hours, he was surrounded by people who were
victims of similar disruptions.  On the panel with him were Jeromee Johnson from Bats Global
Markets Inc., which canceled its initial public offering last
year after failing to get the shares to trade on its own
exchange, and Tom Wittman of Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., whose first-
quarter profit was cut in half because of costs related to its
mishandling of Facebook Inc.’s IPO in May. Six people on the
attendee list were from Knight Capital Group Inc., which almost
went bankrupt after a software error flooded the equity market
with bad trades.  “So you’re telling us computers break occasionally?” TD
Ameritrade Holding Corp.’s Paul Jiganti asked Provost during the
panel discussion, which started just as the CBOE was opening
after the delay.  “Every once in a while,” replied Provost, chief business
development officer at CBOE Holdings Inc.  The CBOE’s closure yesterday underscored how common errors
have become among the exchanges that dominate the world’s
largest financial market. It also showed how the fragmented
market can help cushion the blow when one venue shuts down, as
trades for most products were able to flow to the 10 other U.S.
options markets.  Technology Fails  “To paraphrase the bumper sticker, IT happens,” James J. Angel, a professor of finance at  Georgetown University  in
 Washington , said in an e-mail. “Our markets work pretty well
most of the time, but sometimes the technology fails. We need to
have containment in place to protect the rest of the market from
the inevitable glitches.”  The outage frustrated investors still shocked from a swoon
in the market on April 23 that briefly erased $136 billion from
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index stocks after a hacker sent a fake
post from an Associated Press Twitter account saying there had
been explosions at the White House that injured President  Barack
Obama . Traders and analysts at firms including Aite Group LLC
and Conifer Securities LLC said the dip may have been
exacerbated by computer algorithms that read news feeds.  The CBOE said that its software malfunction was not the
work of hackers, with both Provost and company spokeswoman Gail
Osten denying that outside forces were responsible even as they
said they didn’t know immediately what caused the issue.  Options Conference  Bill Brodsky, chairman and chief executive officer of CBOE
Holdings, and Provost were at the Las Vegas resort for the
annual Options Industry Conference, where Bermuda shorts and
golf shirts outnumbered business suits. The conference marked
the 40th anniversary of the CBOE, which was founded in 1973 when
exchange-listed options were first traded in the U.S.  About 450 people were in attendance with representatives
from firms such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and
Group One Trading, the primary market maker for  VIX options . The
three-day event mixes discussions on topics from fee structures
and a proposed tax on derivatives with hospitality cabanas,
trips to the Las Vegas strip and a tournament at Rio Secco Golf
Club outside the city.  While their exchange was shut in  Chicago , Brodsky and
Provost read from their smartphones in a huddle of  CBOE
executives (CBOE)  outside the resort. CBOE Chief Branding Officer Carol Kennedy blocked a Bloomberg News reporter from approaching the
two for comment, referring him to a press release.  Trading Volume  The CBOE traded 62 percent less yesterday than the prior
day because of the outage. The exchange accounted for 8.4
percent of U.S. options trading yesterday, compared with 23
percent on April 24, according to data compiled by Chicago-based
Options Clearing Corp. It gave up its position as the largest
exchange to the  International Securities Exchange , which had 21
percent of total volume, followed by  Nasdaq  OMX PHLX at 19
percent and NYSE Amex Options at 17 percent.  The CBOE published its first  notice  about the technical
breakdown experienced by users trying to download products at
8:18 a.m.  New York  time. The exchange initially planned to start
trading at 10:15 a.m., 45 minutes after it normally begins, and
delayed that by five minutes. At 10:21 a.m. it canceled that
plan.  “We are doing zero business,” Greg Richards, who trades
VIX and  S&P 500  options as an institutional broker at Chicago-
based PTR Inc. on the CBOE floor, said in an interview during
the shutdown. “It is not good for the CBOE in a competitive
atmosphere.”  Error Corrected  The CBOE said in a later statement that the malfunction
“affected validation of certain orders and the communication of
cancel/fill reports” and was corrected.  The CBOE Futures Exchange, C2 Options Exchange and CBOE
Stock Exchange were operational, the company said. The company
runs two options markets, a stock exchange and a futures bourse.  While most  equity-derivatives  contracts are traded on
multiple exchanges, which boosts competition for the quoted
prices, or bids and offers, the CBOE is the exclusive venue for
options based on the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  and the CBOE’s own  VIX (VIX)  gauge
of equity volatility.  VIX and S&P 500 options trading has surged to record
levels. Volume of options on the equity volatility measure
climbed to a daily average of more than 630,000 this year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s up 42 percent from 2012 and
is the most since the data started in 2006. Almost 820,000 S&P
500 options traded each day in 2013 on average, up 17 percent
from last year and more than in any year since 2000.  Other Products  The delayed open prompted investors to seek other products
to use in hedging, such as  options  on the  SPDR S&P 500 ETF
Trust (SPY) , according to Jeremy Wien, head of VIX trading at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in New York. About 1.9 million  options contracts  on
the ETF changed hands in the half-day’s worth of trading before
the CBOE reopened. That compared with a full-day average of 2.4
million this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The CBOE, which accounts for about 25 percent of options
volume, was able to start trading in S&P 500 products at 12:50
p.m. New York time and the rest of the exchange opened at 1 p.m.
rather than the usual 9:30 a.m.  The open of the exchange in Chicago was greeted with a
“sarcastic cheer” from floor traders, according to Jim
Phillips, who works at DSM Trading and trades futures and
options in the S&P 500 pit of the CBOE.  ‘Just Unbelievable’  “They razzed the guy giving the updates,” said Phillips,
28, in an interview outside the exchange. “I just couldn’t
believe it was happening. Just unbelievable that it could be
compromised so quickly.”  The Securities and Exchange Commission was monitoring the
situation  “as is our practice,” spokesman  John Nester  said.  Shares of CBOE finished yesterday’s session up 16 cents, or
0.4 percent, at $36.61 after losing 0.4 percent earlier. The
 stock  is up 24 percent this year.  Index contracts including the S&P 500, the most-active in
the U.S., generated more transaction fees than any other product
at the CBOE in the fourth  quarter .  Index contracts accounted for 64 percent of CBOE’s total
options transaction fees last year, compared with 55 percent in
2011, according to  regulatory filings . Transaction fees for
options on equities slid to $13.5 million in the fourth quarter
of last year, 25 percent less than in the same period in 2011.  Flash Crash  The CBOE’s breakdown is the latest in a series of computer
malfunctions that have rattled exchanges and trading firms in
the three years since a firm’s faulty algorithm triggered the
so-called flash crash that briefly wiped out $862 billion in
market value in less than 20 minutes.  In January, Bats acknowledged that computer issues allowed
about 12,000 trades that violated rules intended to ensure all
investors get the best prices for equities, 10 months after its
failed IPO. Knight almost went out of business in August as a
result of improperly installed software. Charges related to the
 Facebook IPO  cost Nasdaq $10 million it set aside for an SEC
probe as well as $62 million regulators cleared as compensation
to brokers who lost money in the stock’s debut.  A  power failure  shut the CBOE for 35 minutes in August 1999
and a computer malfunction halted trading for about two-and-a-
half hours in February 2000. The exchange’s systems
malfunctioned in November 2007 and disrupted trading for about
an hour.  “We expect all this backbone infrastructure to work
seamlessly,” said Behrak Shahriari, a U.S. equities fund
manager with Montrusco Bolton Investments Inc. in  Montreal . His
firm manages more than C$5 billion ($4.9 billion). “We’re not
delighted to see this happening. It kind of highlights that the
 stock exchanges  we use can at any given time just shut down. ”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  