-- Cemex Rallies as U.S. Prices Rise in Construction Rebound
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-04-26T20:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/cemex-loss-widens-amid-construction-slowdown-in-mexico.html
Cemex SAB (CEMEXCPO)  shares rallied after
executives said U.S. cement prices rose during the first quarter
and predicted the Mexican government’s spending on
infrastructure would grow in 2013.  The largest cement maker in the Americas is confident that
its recent price increases in  Texas  and  Southern California  will
stick, Chief Financial Officer  Fernando Gonzalez  said today on
an earnings call. Sales in the U.S. benefited from a rebound in
residential construction, with new housing starts climbing 5.5
percent in the first quarter.  South of the U.S. border, volumes in  Mexico  will probably
be up in 2013 as a new presidential administration boosts
infrastructure spending, Cemex said.  “Management comments about U.S. pricing and Mexican
infrastructure appear to have assuaged investor concerns”
spurred by first-quarter sales and profits missing analysts’
estimates, said Robert Wetenhall, an analyst with RBC Capital
Markets LLC in  New York  who rates the shares “sector perform.”  Cemex rose 2 percent to 14.06 pesos today in Mexico City.
Thos gains followed declines of as much as 2.6 percent after the
company said its first-quarter loss widened amid slower
 government spending  during the start of President Enrique Pena Nieto’s administration.  “The new government has hardly exercised the budget and
that’s why there is a decline during the first quarter in
infrastructure” in Mexico, Gonzalez said on the call.  Quarterly Sales  The net loss was $281 million, compared with $30 million a
year earlier, the Monterrey, Mexico-based company said today in
a statement. Operating earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization fell 8 percent to $521 million,
trailing the $594.6 million  estimated  by analysts.  Sales dropped 5 percent to $3.32 billion in the quarter,
also lagging behind analysts’ estimates, as volumes dropped in
Mexico, South America and northern Europe.  Cemex has reported 14 straight quarterly  losses , as the
U.S. construction market slumped after its $14.2 billion
acquisition in 2007 of Rinker Group Ltd., which got more than 80
percent of its sales in the U.S.  Companywide, adjusting for fewer selling days in the first
quarter compared with the same period a year ago, sales would
have declined 2 percent, Cemex said. Operating Ebitda, adjusted
for the change in sales days and excluding gains from a pension
plan change in  Europe  a year ago, would have advanced 9 percent.  U.S. Ebitda  Cemex has yet to see any “major negative consequences”
from the woes of publicly-traded Mexican homebuilders, Gonzalez
said on the call. The homebuilders have deteriorated as the
government delayed payment of housing subsidies and shifted
policy to promote more capital-intensive apartment construction
in urban areas over single-family homes in commuter towns.  Cemex’s U.S. unit posted a profit before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization for the fourth straight quarter in
a row as the company raised prices in several states. The unit’s
earnings on that basis were $19 million, compared with a  Comdty
loss of $24 million a year earlier, Cemex  said . U.S. cement
prices advanced 5 percent.  “The residential sector continues to be the main driver
for cement consumption, supported by record high affordability,
low  interest rates , and low levels of inventories,” Cemex said
in a report.  The company said total cement volume would rise 1 percent
this year, with a 2 percent gain in ready-mix concrete and a 1
percent increase in aggregates.  Sales volumes in the first quarter, though, indicate a
challenge, said Lilian Ochoa, an analyst with Corporativo GBM
SAB who has a buy recommendation on the company. A 2 percent
quarterly cement volume increase in the U.S. compares with a  14
percent  gain last year.  Cemex was “at much higher levels before,” she said in a
telephone interview from San Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico.
“Volumes also fell in  South America , Central America and the
Caribbean. Are they really going to be able to show a
consolidated expansion in volume? I’d worry about that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  