-- Chalco Posts Narrower First-Quarter Loss as Sales Increase
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-26T11:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/chalco-posts-narrower-first-quarter-loss-as-sales-increase.html
Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the
nation’s biggest producer of the lightweight metal, reported a
narrower first-quarter loss and sales increased.  Net loss was 975 million  yuan  ($158 million) in the three
months ended March 31, compared with a loss of 1.09 billion yuan
a year earlier, the Beijing-based company said in a statement to
the  Hong Kong  stock exchange. Chalco, as the company is known,
was expected to post a 1.81 billion yuan loss, according to the
average estimate of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales
rose 1.9 percent to 34.2 billion yuan in the quarter.  Chalco is unlikely to post an operational turnaround amid
weak metal prices and cost challenges, Barclays Plc analysts led
by Ephrem Ravi said in March.  Aluminum prices  in  London  dropped
8 percent on average in the quarter from a year earlier amid an
industry glut. The company has now posted losses for six
straight quarters, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chalco  slid  2.7 percent to close at HK$2.87 in Hong Kong
before the earnings announcement. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index 
gained 0.7 percent. Chalco has declined 24 percent in the past
12 months, compared with a 8.4 percent gain in the index.  Chief Executive Officer  Xiong Weiping  unveiled a plan in
August 2010 to diversify into rare earths, coal and  iron ore  to
reduce dependence on smelting. The approach should be “re-
defined to focus on fixing the aluminum business,” Vanessa Lau,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in an April 23
report.  “There is a way to turn around Chalco, but will take real
restructuring and change in management mindset,” Lau wrote.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  