-- Charter Hall Seeks A$1.3 Billion of Asset Purchases
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-04-29T00:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/charter-hall-seeks-a-1-3-billion-of-assets-as-it-mulls-new-reit.html
(Corrects building ownership in the first paragraph in
story published on April 26.)  Charter Hall Group (CHC) , owner of the
 office tower  above Sydney’s 125-year-old  General Post Office
building , plans to buy about A$1.3 billion ($1.3 billion) of
offices, shopping centers and warehouses in 2013.  The acquisitions will boost Australian assets under
management by 31 percent to about A$11 billion by the end of
this year from A$8.4 billion as of June 30, said David Harrison,
joint managing director of the Sydney-based  property trust . The
REIT may consider creating a listed industrial real estate trust
to meet investor demand, depending on the availability of such
properties, he said.  Australian commercial properties worth A$3.5 billion
changed hands in the first quarter, a 15 percent jump from a
year earlier, driven by demand from local investors including
REITs, according to broker CBRE Group Inc. The S&P/ASX 200 A-
REIT Index has an average dividend yield of 4.9 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a
3.4 percent yield on  10-year Australian government  bonds.  Asset prices haven’t yet reacted to the spread between
property income yields and cost of debt, “so we think there’ll
continue to be attractive buying,” Harrison said in an
interview April 23. “There’s no institutional, Australian-only
industrial REIT. We’ll monitor the market and keep tabs on
demand.”  Managed Funds  Charter Hall reported a 53 percent jump in  profit  in the
six months ended Dec. 31, driven by growing property investment
yields and funds under management. It said last week it’s in
exclusive due diligence to buy the Raine Square office tower in
Perth and in talks to purchase the Westfield Innaloo shopping
center, also in Perth.  The company manages the publicly traded  Charter Hall Retail
REIT (CQR) , as well as other private funds for institutional and
retail investors. Among them is the formerly listed  Charter Hall
Office Trust , which the Canadian Public Sector Pension
Investment Board and Reco Ambrosia Pte, an affiliate of the
Government of Singapore Investment Corp., acquired for A$1.2
billion last year.  Australian unlisted property funds had a post-fee return of
7.2 percent in the 12 months to March 31, according to London-
based researcher  Investment Property Databank .  Charter Hall is now seeking as much as A$110 million in
equity for its second unlisted industrial fund for individual
investors, David Southon, joint-managing director of the company,
said in the interview. It also sees potential for an unlisted
office fund targeting retail investors, Southon said.  In October, Charter Hall partnered with the Telstra Super
pension fund to buy retail properties worth A$207 million. In
February, it established another A$400 million industrial
partnership with two Australian institutional investors.  Warehouse Access  “One of the reasons why you don’t have a good quality
industrial REIT is getting access to the assets that are modern
in nature, long leases,” Harrison said. “We are looking at the
market, and depending on our ability to secure the assets and
match that with investment demand will determine whether we go
down that path.”  Demand is particularly strong from  Asia , with regional
buyers accounting for 71 percent of the A$1.4 billion of
industrial properties bought by foreign investors since the
global financial crisis in 2008, London-based broker Savills Plc
said in an e-mailed release on April 16.  Charter Hall  shares  fell 1.9 percent to A$4.17 at the close
of trading in Sydney, trimming their gain this year to 28
percent, compared with a 9.7 percent gain in the benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index in 2013. They closed at A$4.25 on April 24,
more than double the value of the trust’s assets. Charter Hall
Retail  shares  fell 0.5 percent to A$4.29, compared with net
tangible assets of A$3.31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  