-- NFL Draft’s First Round Is Led by Linemen as Jets Grab Milliner
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-26T05:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/chiefs-take-offensive-tackle-fisher-with-nfl-draft-s-top-pick.html
Offensive tackles were the top two
picks in the National Football League draft for the second time
in the Super Bowl era, the New York Jets picked up a potential
replacement for Darrelle Revis and no running backs were taken
in the opening round for the first time since 1963.  The Kansas City Chiefs selected Eric Fisher from Central
Michigan University to start last night’s draft and the
Jacksonville Jaguars followed by taking Luke Joeckel from Texas
A&M. Nine offensive linemen were among the first 32 picks -- one
short of the record 10 in 1968 -- with the New York Giants
getting Justin Pugh from Syracuse University as a protector for
quarterback Eli Manning with the 19th pick.  “That’s a lot of love for the big boys up front, which we
usually don’t get,” said Fisher, who was the fourth offensive
lineman in the past 45 years taken No. 1 overall, joining Jake Long (2008), Orlando Pace (1997) and Ron Yary (1968).  The Jets, with two first-round picks for the first time
since 2008, took University of Alabama cornerback Dee Milliner
at No. 9 overall. The selection, made four days after the Jets
traded All-Pro cornerback Revis to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, was
met with loud cheers from Jets fans at New York’s Radio City
Music Hall. The Jets also had the 13th pick and took University
of  Missouri  defensive tackle Sheldon Richardson, who was one of
nine defensive linemen drafted on day one.  Of the 32 first-round picks, 18 were offensive or defensive
linemen.  “It’s become a passing league and they need guys to
protect the quarterbacks and guys to get after them,” said
University of  Oregon  defensive end Dion  Jordan , who went third
overall to the Miami Dolphins.  First Quarterback  E.J. Manuel of Florida State was the only quarterback
drafted in the first round, taken 16th overall by the Buffalo
Bills. Quarterback Geno Smith of West Virginia University was
among four of the 23 prospects to accept invitations to attend
the draft and go undrafted in the first round.  Also undrafted were the University of  Alabama ’s Eddie Lacy,
as no running backs were taken in the first round for the first
time in 50 years, and University of Notre Dame linebacker Manti Te’o, the runner-up for last year’s Heisman Trophy.  The draft continues tonight with the second and third
rounds. Rounds 4-7 are scheduled for tomorrow.  Fisher joins a Chiefs team that tied the Jaguars with an
NFL-worst 2-14 record last season, leading to the firing of
coach Romeo Crennel and general manager Scott Pioli. This
offseason, Kansas City hired ex-Philadelphia Eagles coach Andy Reid and acquired quarterback Alex Smith, the No. 1 pick in
2005, in a trade with the San Francisco 49ers.  Top Two  Fisher and Joeckel are the first offensive linemen taken
with the first two picks since Yary and Bob Johnson were picked
consecutively by Minnesota and Cincinnati in 1968, less than two
years after the first Super Bowl. After the Dolphins traded up
to get Jordan -- Oregon’s first defensive player taken with a
top-10 draft pick -- the Philadelphia Eagles took University of
 Oklahoma  offensive tackle Lane Johnson fourth.  “It’s always nice when the O-line gets some respect,”
Joeckel said. “Teams are realizing how important the position
is because the guys, they look pretty scoring the touchdowns,
but they get space to score those touchdowns from us.”  Defensive ends went with consecutive picks at five and six
-- Brigham Young’s Ezekiel Ansah to the Detroit Lions and
Louisiana State’s Barkevious Mingo to the Cleveland Browns.  The  Arizona  Cardinals took North Carolina guard Jonathan
Cooper next before the St. Louis Rams made a trade with the
Buffalo Bills to take the draft’s first non-lineman, West
Virginia University wide receiver Tavon Austin, who had 114
catches for 1,289 yards and 12 touchdowns last season.  Crimson Tide  The Jets’ pick of Milliner was the first of three straight
from the national champion Alabama Crimson Tide. The Tennessee
Titans took guard Chance Warmack with the 10th pick and the
Chargers followed by selecting tackle D.J. Fluker.  The Minnesota Vikings were the first team to have three
first-round picks since the 2001 Rams and took Florida defensive
tackle Sharrif Floyd at No. 23,  Florida  State defensive back
Xavier Rhodes at No. 25 and University of Tennessee receiver
Cordarrelle Patterson at No. 29.  The Super Bowl-champion Baltimore Ravens closed the first
round after three hours, 33 minutes by taking Florida defensive
back Matt Elam. He was the last of 12 players from Southeastern
Conference schools taken in round one, the most of any college
football league.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  