-- Chile’s Statistics Head Resigns Amid Census Data Criticism
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-04-26T22:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/chile-s-statistics-head-resigns-amid-census-data-criticism.html
The Chilean government’s chief
statistician resigned today amid accusations of irregularities
in compiling the country’s last census and criticism of the
methodology for measuring consumer prices.  Francisco Labbe stepped down as head of the National
Statistics Institute, known as INE, Deputy Economy Minister
Tomas Flores told reporters in Santiago today in images
transmitted live on state television station TVN.  INE, which also publishes economic data including inflation
and unemployment, didn’t commit errors or manipulate data in the
latest census, Labbe said in an e-mailed response to an article
published today on the Ciper Chile website. Earlier this month
INE employees said in a letter that the methodology for
measuring consumer prices was outdated while analysts said
inflation may be underreported by as much as half.  “If there is a possibility of a manipulation of the
census, then that must be investigated,” Flores said. “We
can’t rule out” repeating the census, he said.  In a letter received by Bloomberg April 17, INE division
chiefs said Labbe had dismissed recommendations made to
modernize the inflation measuring methodology.  Institute employees have been studying ways to improve the
inflation methodology and consulted an international expert
after they raised questions in 2010 about clothing prices, which
have fallen faster than any other item, according to the letter.
Labbe’s refusal to accept their recommendations hurts the
institute’s credibility as analysts question their reports, the
officials said.  Analysts including Morgan Stanley’s Luis Arcentales and
Jorge Selaive, a chief economist at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA) , have questioned the institute’s methodology for
measuring prices, with the latter saying annual inflation would
be closer to 3 percent than the 1.5 percent reported in March.  While Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said today that the
government is open to improving statistics methodologies, he
called for “responsibility” in denouncing the agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 Ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  