-- China Telecom’s Profit Gains First Time Since IPhone Sales Start
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-26T18:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/china-telecom-profit-gains-first-time-since-iphone-introduction.html
China Telecom Corp. (728) , the country’s
third-biggest mobile-phone operator by users, posted a gain in
profit for the first time since it started selling  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone in March 2012 as the device helped boost data usage.  Net income  rose 10 percent to 4.7 billion yuan ($762
million) in the first quarter, the Beijing-based company said in
a statement yesterday. That matched the median  estimate  of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  China Telecom had reported a decline in quarterly profit
since Chairman Wang Xiaochu began selling the iPhone on March 9,
2012, in a bid to gain ground from larger wireless carriers
China Mobile Ltd. and China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. China
Telecom is beginning to benefit from the increase in users of
the third-generation service, said Eva Yip, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Sun Hung Kai Financial Ltd.  “The iPhone helped China Telecom to lure more high-revenue
users from competitors,” Yip said in an e-mail yesterday. “The
proliferation of smartphones, including the iPhone, is helping
stimulate data usage and data revenue.”  China Telecom said last year when it started sales of the
iPhone that the device would help it achieve long-term
sustainable growth even as it causes“short-term pressure” on
profitability.  Sales in the first quarter rose 15 percent to 77.8 billion
 yuan  from 67.9 billion yuan. That compares with the median
estimate of 77 billion yuan in the Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Robust Growth’  “Services like Internet access and data services continued
robust growth,” Wang said in yesterday’s earnings release.  In the first quarter, the company’s mobile unit added a
further 9 million 3G users, bringing its total to 78.1 million.
The total number of wireless subscribers rose to 168 million.  China Telecom closed unchanged at HK$3.91 in Hong Kong
trading yesterday, before the results were announced. The  stock 
has dropped 9.3 percent this year, compared with a 0.5 percent
decline in the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  The company ranks behind  China Mobile (941)  and China Unicom in
wireless users in the Asian nation.  China Telecom entered the wireless market in 2008 by
acquiring the smaller of China Unicom’s two mobile divisions in
a government-led revamp of the nation’s mobile-phone industry.  China Mobile this past week reported its weakest  profit 
growth in three quarters as higher costs eroded gains from an
increase in users of high-speed network services.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  