-- China Top Leaders Warn on Financial Risks as Rebound Falters
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-26T06:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/china-s-politburo-warns-on-financial-risks-as-recovery-falters.html
China ’s top leaders said the
country must guard against financial risks and boost consumption
amid signs that the recovery in the world’s second-biggest
economy is faltering.  “China needs to cement its domestic economic growth
momentum and guard against potential risks in financial
sectors,” the Politburo Standing Committee said in a statement
late yesterday published by the official  Xinhua News Agency .
Macro-economic policies should be stabilized and micro controls
in some sectors should be loosened, it said after what Xinhua
said was a “special session” on the economy.  Data this week showed China’s manufacturing is expanding at
a slower pace, adding to evidence a recovery is losing steam
after an unexpected slowdown in  growth  in the first quarter.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. last week cut
forecasts for 2013 expansion while Nomura Holdings Inc. said
this week that growth needs to moderate to avoid a systemic
financial crisis.  The Politburo Standing Committee’s comments “provide
support to the State Council’s decisions and don’t imply policy
changes,” said Ding Shuang, senior China economist at Citigroup
Inc. in Hong Kong. “While the leadership is saying China needs
to boost growth momentum, it’s also warning about financial
risks -- it isn’t going to pursue the old way of stimulus to
push up growth at the expense of long-term structural reform.”  Government Financing  Stocks in China fell, with the benchmark Shanghai Composite
Index down 0.4 percent at 1:54 p.m. local time. The gauge
slipped 0.9 percent yesterday, the third drop in four days, and
is heading for a third straight monthly decline.  The Politburo Standing Committee pledged to accelerate the
establishment of a standard local government financing mechanism
after “explosive” growth in local debt raised concerns about
the financial health of the economy, according to Xinhua’s
report which didn’t give more details.  Greater efforts are needed to bring out the potential of
domestic consumption, according to the statement. While focusing
on improving the quality and efficiency of economic development,
the country should maintain a proactive fiscal policy and
prudent monetary policy while making them more targeted, it said.  Indiscriminate Expansion  On housing, the Standing Committee said a “good job”
should be done on development of the real-estate industry and
building affordable housing. The government will remove or
delegate power to approve investment projects in some areas
while strictly limiting the “indiscriminate expansion” of
energy-inefficient and polluting industries, it said.  Xu Gao, chief economist at China Everbright Securities Co.
in Beijing, said this was the first time the Politburo Standing
Committee held an economy-focused meeting in April since 2004
when it decided to step up efforts to control overheating
investment. The meeting delivered a “strong message of
stabilizing growth,” he said in a note. Normally such meetings
are held in February, July and at the end of the year, Xu said.  The Standing Committee’s comments echo those made by the
State Council, China’s cabinet, after a government report last
week showed gross domestic product in the first quarter rose 7.7
percent from a year earlier, down from a 7.9 percent pace in the
previous three months and trailing the median estimate of 8
percent in a Bloomberg News survey.  “As growth slows, pressure on the government is building
to loosen policy further,” Zhang Zhiwei, Nomura’s chief China
economist in  Hong Kong , said in a note today. The Standing
Committee’s comments show “the senior leadership has reached a
consensus to tolerate slower growth” and indicate that policy
stimulus is unlikely, he said.  Weaker Growth  Nomura estimates economic growth will slow to 7.2 percent
in the fourth quarter year-on-year, and will be 7.5 percent for
the full year. Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan estimate a 7.8 percent
pace for 2013, the same rate as 2012 which was the weakest in 13
years.  In an April 24 report, Nomura said its China Stress Index,
which monitors the risk of a hard landing, recorded its highest
reading since it started in November 2011, driven by  credit  and
property market booms. The bank defines a hard landing as an
abrupt slowdown in real gross domestic product growth to an
average of 5 percent or less year-on-year over four consecutive
quarters, and estimates a one-in-three likelihood of such an
event starting before the end of 2014.  Less Progress  Fitch Ratings Ltd. cut China’s long-term local-currency
debt rating this month, citing risks to the country’s financial
stability. Moody’s Investors Service also lowered its outlook
for the country’s ranking to stable from positive, saying the
nation has made less progress than anticipated in reducing risks
from local-government debt and credit expansion.  China’s local governments may have more than 20 trillion
yuan of debt, former Finance Minister Xiang Huaicheng said this
month, almost double the figure given in a 2011 report by the
National Audit Office. Aggregate financing, a broad measure of
credit that includes non-bank lending and bond sales, was a
record 2.54 trillion  yuan  in March, central bank data show.  China’s policy makers are also grappling with renewed
inflows of capital from looser monetary policies in developed
economies and expectations of yuan gains. The nation’s financial
and capital account surplus surged to $101.8 billion in the
first quarter from $56.1 billion a year earlier, data from the
State Administration of Foreign Exchange showed yesterday.  --Nerys Avery. With assistance from Zhou Xin and Liu Li in
Beijing. Editors:  Nicholas Wadhams, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  