-- Churchill to Feature on Next U.K. Banknote, King Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-04-26T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/churchill-to-feature-on-next-u-k-banknote-king-says.html
Winston Churchill , Britain’s World
War II prime minister, will appear on the next U.K. banknote,
 Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said.  “Sir Winston Churchill was a truly great British leader,
orator and writer,” King said at an event today at  Chartwell ,
Churchill’s former country home near Westerham in southeast
England. “Above that, he remains a hero of the entire free
world. His energy, courage, eloquence, wit and public service
are an inspiration to us all.”  The current plan is for the new design to appear on the
five-pound ($7.72) note and to be introduced into circulation in
2016, though that has yet to be confirmed, the central bank said
in an e-mailed statement.  After an early career as a soldier and war correspondent,
Churchill, born in 1874, first became a member of Parliament in
1901. He replaced Neville Chamberlain as prime minister in 1940
and helped lead the allies to victory over  Nazi Germany . The
words from his first speech as premier, “I have nothing to
offer but blood, toil, tears and sweat,” will appear on the new
note.  Today’s event takes place at a property Churchill purchased
in 1922, where he pursued interests including painting and
bricklaying as well as writing works which later earned him the
 Nobel Prize  for literature in 1953. He was awarded honorary U.S.
citizenship in 1963.  Churchill died Jan. 24, 1965, and was given a state
funeral, the last non-royal to be so honored.  Queen Elizabeth II 
led the mourning, making her only appearance at a service for a
former prime minister until the funeral of  Margaret Thatcher  on
April 17.  Historical Figures  The former premier’s image may replace that of Elizabeth
Fry on the five-pound note. She was a social reformer who worked
to improve U.K. prison conditions in the early part of the 19th
century. The redesign is the  Bank of England’s latest , following
the introduction of steam-engine pioneers Matthew Boulton and
James Watt on the 50-pound note in 2011, and economist  Adam Smith  on the 20-pound note in 2007.  The 10-pound note that features naturalist  Charles Darwin ,
author of “On the Origin of Species,” was first issued in
2000. The Fry note was introduced in 2002.  The U.K. has taken steps to boost the circulation of
“fivers” to increase Britons’ confidence in their ability to
transact in cash. King said in 2007 a shortage of the bills left
existing notes looking increasingly “soiled” as banks were
reluctant to stock their cash machines with the lowest-
denomination paper money.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  