-- CIBC Outdoes Peers as Less Risk Adds Stability: Corporate Canada
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-04-26T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/cibc-outdoes-peers-as-less-risk-adds-stability-corporate-canada.html
Chief Executive Officer Gerald McCaughey’s mission to reduce risk at  Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce  is rewarding shareholders with a less-volatile stock.  CIBC generated the best risk-adjusted returns among
 Canada ’s six-largest lenders in the past 12 months, according to
a Bloomberg Riskless Return ranking. That compares to the five-
year period beginning with the financial crisis when the
Toronto-based lender was the worst performer and most-volatile
stock as debt writedowns caused investors to shun the shares.  CIBC has returned 1.18 percent in the past year after
accounting for price swings, ahead of  Bank of Montreal ’s 1.16
percent risk-adjusted return and six times that of Toronto-
Dominion Bank, according to data compiled by Bloomberg through
yesterday’s market close. CIBC also outperformed  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS)  and  Royal Bank of Canada , whose risk-adjusted returns
were both 0.72 percent, and the 0.2 percent gain by  National
Bank of Canada. (NA)   “Gerry McCaughey’s done a great job de-risking the bank,”
 Ian Nakamoto , director of research at MacDougall MacDougall &
MacTier Inc. in Toronto, which manages about C$4 billion ($3.92
billion) including bank stocks, said in an April 22 interview.
“He’s playing into the mantra of what bank investors want:
relatively low-risk situations.”  CIBC under McCaughey spent the past five years focusing on
Canadian banking and  wealth management . McCaughey has repeated a
refrain since at least December 2011 that CIBC’s first principle
is to be a lower-risk bank that delivers consistent and
sustainable earnings.  ‘First Principle’  “What we try to control is our operating framework, be it
normal operations, incremental investment, capital levels,”
McCaughey, 57, said yesterday in an interview in Ottawa after
the bank’s annual investor meeting. “We seek to adhere to our
first principle, to be a lower-risk bank. That is our policy now
and it will be our policy in the future.”  CIBC  earned  68 percent of its annual profit last year from
retail and business banking, according to financial statements.
Wealth management made up 10 percent of earnings, with wholesale
banking contributing 18 percent of profit.  “An unintended consequence of the de-risking effort is an
over-reliance on earnings generated by its Canadian personal and
commercial-banking business, generally, and to the Canadian
household specifically,”  Peter Routledge , a National Bank
Financial analyst who rates the stock the equivalent of hold,
said in an April 24 interview from Toronto. “CIBC risks
becoming a low-risk, low-growth bank.”  Bank Missteps  Nakamoto said he prefers the slower growth, lower risk
approach than the alternative strategy. “I always view banks as
an area where you don’t want anything too exciting to happen,”
he said. “Most of the exciting stocks have been killed.”  McCaughey’s low-risk directive follows years of missteps on
risky U.S. subprime mortgages, structured debt and Enron Corp.
CIBC had more than C$10.7 billion of pretax writedowns between
2007 and 2009, more than any other bank in the country during
the financial crisis. Before then, the bank agreed to pay Enron
shareholders $2.4 billion to settle claims from a class-action
lawsuit tied to the failed energy trader. The Enron settlement
was announced Aug. 2, 2005, the day after McCaughey took over as
CEO from John Hunkin, who retired.  McCaughey stepped up efforts to lower risks after taking
writedowns during the financial crisis, selling most of CIBC’s
New York-based investment bank, exiting businesses such as
European leveraged finance and scaling back on debt securities.  ‘No Surprises’  “From the first day he took the job, a key mandate for
Gerry has been to reduce the risk profile of CIBC,” Sumit Malhotra, an analyst at Macquarie Capital Markets in Toronto,
said in an April 24 interview. “It took a little while, but
from a financial perspective I think CIBC has become the new
bank of no surprises.”  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  “CIBC is basically a very simplified bank,” David Atkins,
a portfolio manager at Cardinal Capital in Winnipeg, Manitoba,
who manages C$1.7 billion including Canadian bank stocks, said
in an April 22 interview. “They’ve probably set out and
accomplished what they wanted to do.”  Steady Growth  CIBC has returned 12.7 percent in the past 12 months with
price swings, the best among Canada’s largest six lenders,
according to the data. In comparison,  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  had a
12.6 percent return, Royal Bank returned 10.8 percent,
Scotiabank 9.3 percent and Toronto-Dominion 2.2 percent.
National Bank returned 2.5 percent in the period.  The stock closed yesterday little changed at C$78.91 for a
market value of C$31.6 billion. CIBC advanced 7.4 percent in the
12 months through yesterday, the best performing stock along
with Bank of Montreal in the eight-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Commercial Banks Index.  “If you look at CIBC now, their  dividend  growth potential
is very good, their earnings growth is steady,” Atkins said.
“I’m not expecting them to really shoot the lights out, but if
you can get 8, 10 percent earnings growth and you’re still
getting 10 percent dividend growth, that’s going to be a very
good investment over the long term.”  Most Volatile  Canadian lenders have been ranked the world’s soundest for
the past five years by the Geneva-based  World Economic Forum .
The banks  index (VIX)  during the five-year period outperformed
Canada’s benchmark  S&P/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX) , which has been
almost unchanged in that span when accounting for volatility.  Canada’s commercial banks index returned 1.9 percent on a
risk-adjusted basis for the five years, compared with the 0.5
percent decline of the KBW Bank Index of 24 U.S. lenders.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, which
reflects an estimate of future volatility of the  S&P 500 Index ,
dropped to 13.62 yesterday from a November 2008 peak of 80.86.  McCaughey’s push for lower risk may come at a cost to
investors, according to National Bank’s Routledge.  “Over periods longer than a year, lower risk can translate
into slower growth and ultimately weaker shareholder returns,”
Routledge said. “Fortune favors the bold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  