-- Colombia Holds Rate at 3.25% as Santos Unveils Stimulus
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-04-26T19:27:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/colombia-holds-key-rate-at-3-25-as-santos-unveils-stimulus-plan.html
Colombia  kept borrowing costs
unchanged for the first time in six months as policy makers seek
to evaluate the combined effects of  Latin America ’s lowest
interest rate and the government’s fiscal stimulus.  Banco de la Republica, led by bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe, held its benchmark interest rate at 3.25 percent today in
line with the forecasts of 19 of 31 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Twelve analysts predicted a quarter-point cut. Uribe
said that the board’s decision was unanimous.  “The Colombian economy is currently growing below its
potential and inflation is below 3 percent,” policy makers said
in their statement following their announcement. “In this
context, the balance of  risk assessment  indicates the need to
maintain the policy  interest rate  at 3.25 percent, while waiting
for more information.”  The central bank has lowered borrowing costs at seven of
its last ten meetings as growth decelerated to the slowest pace
in the Andean region and the inflation rate fell to a six-decade
low. After unexpectedly quickening the pace of rate cuts with a
half-point reduction in March, policy makers will now probably
leave the benchmark unchanged through year-end, said  Camilo Perez , chief economist at Banco de Bogota, who correctly
forecast today’s decision.  Stimulus, Growth  Colombia has cut its policy rate by 2 percentage points
over the last year, the most among major Latin American
economies. As industry continued to weaken, the government of
President  Juan Manuel Santos  this month announced a 5 trillion-
peso ($2.7 billion) stimulus plan, of which $900 million will be
spent in 2013. The measures include an expansion of a housing
program for low-income families, subsidized mortgages and
cheaper energy costs.  Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said in an April 25
interview that the measures will boost 2013 growth by 0.7
percentage point, to 4.8 percent, from  4 percent last year .
Cardenas estimates that the economy can grow at 4.8 percent a
year without stoking inflation.  Consumer prices  rose 1.91 percent in March from a year
earlier, lagging the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey for a
fifth straight month. In February, the inflation rate fell to
its lowest level since 1955.  Inflation Target  Uribe said in an April 16 interview that he expects
inflation to return to the midpoint of its target range in 2014.
Colombia targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus one
percentage point.  Consumer prices will rise 3.02 percent over the next year,
according to an April central bank survey of economists, down
from a 3.04 percent forecast in March.  Industrial output  fell 4.5 percent in February from a year
earlier, the biggest decline since 2009 and the fourth straight
contraction.  Retail sales  grew 0.6 percent from a year earlier,
the slowest pace in four months, while  consumer confidence  fell
to a two-year low.  Yields on the government’s 10 percent peso debt due in 2024
The peso weakened 0.2 percent to 1834.44 per dollar. The rate
decision came after the close at 1 p.m. Bogota time of the local
bond and foreign-exchange market.  The currency has weakened 0.5 percent this month after the
price of oil, Colombia’s biggest export, fell, and the
government said it would create incentives for pension funds to
invest more outside the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Bristow at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net  