-- Cypriot Bailout Didn’t Cause Euro-Area Deposit Flight, Data Show
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-04-26T11:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/cypriot-bank-deposits-fell-in-march-amid-bailout-negotiations.html
The European Union’s bailout of
Cyprus, which involved taxing deposits at Cypriot banks, didn’t
prompt savers to withdraw funds in other euro-area nations last
month.  While Cypriot banks lost 1.8 billion euros ($2.4 billion)
in deposits in March, deposits rose in all other euro-area
countries except Belgium and  Finland , European Central Bank data
showed today. Cypriot deposits dropped 3.9 percent from February
to 44.6 billion euros, the 10th straight decline.  Cypriot officials, euro-area finance ministers and the ECB
agreed in mid-March on an unprecedented measure to impose a levy
on deposits of less than 100,000 euros as part of a 10 billion-
euro bailout. The plan was ditched after the country’s
parliament rejected it, and a new accord was reached imposing a
tax only on deposits above 100,000 euros.  “Interestingly, the bank deposit figures for March suggest
little contagion from the Cyprus bail-in of uninsured depositors
to other euro-zone countries, which will probably cause a sigh
of relief,” said Martin van Vliet, senior euro-area economist
at ING Bank NV in Amsterdam. “In fact, private-sector deposits
in most other peripheral euro-zone countries saw further signs
of recovery in March.”  Greek banks recorded an inflow of 1 percent, or 1.8 billion
euros, while deposits increased 1.1 percent in  Spain , 3.1
percent in  Italy  and 6.5 percent in Ireland, the ECB data show.  The Cyprus episode still damaged investor confidence across
the euro region. The Stoxx Europe 600 Banks Index dropped 6.8
percent between March 15 and March 27, the day before banks
reopened on the Mediterranean island with limits on withdrawals.  “We’re not seeing stress on  bank deposits  following the
Cyprus bailout,” ECB Executive Board member Benoit Coeure said
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  