-- Czech Push to Lure Hedge Funds Eyes Luxembourg Not Cyprus
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-04-26T12:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/czech-push-to-lure-hedge-funds-eyes-luxembourg-not-cyprus.html
Prague is joining Frankfurt and
London in a race to attract fund managers seeking European Union
offices in an industry dominated by Luxembourg.  EU laws taking effect in July will force tens of thousands
of  hedge funds  and private-equity firms from outside the bloc to
establish domicile in one of the 27  member states , and the Czech
Republic wants a portion of the business, Deputy Finance
Minister Radek Urban said in an interview at Bloomberg’s Prague
newsroom on April 24. Urban’s drawn up legislation aimed at
making the nation a player in an industry that he said could
bring hundreds of millions of dollars a year to the economy.  “There may be an issue of capacity backlog in Luxembourg
and Ireland if tens of thousands of funds want to domicile from
mid-July,” said the 48-year-old Urban, who’s politically
unaffiliated. “I would really like to be among the first to
have the legislation, in good quality, in place.”  The country, which joined the EU in 2004, is targeting
asset managers after Cyprus agreed to a 10 billion-euro ($13
billion) bailout last month, shattering its appeal as a center
for alternative-investment companies. Czech credit ratings are
the highest among the EU’s post-communist members and deposits
at local lenders exceed loans, making the nation’s banking
industry among the best-capitalized in  Europe .  The government credits its austerity policies with helping
reduce borrowing costs to record lows. The yield on the 10-year
government bond was 1.63 percent at 2:12 p.m. in Prague, lower
than high-rated  France  at 1.76 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed.  New Business  With Czechs’ traditional preference to keep money in banks,
investment funds represent a fraction of the country’s financial
industry. Domestic and foreign funds managed 235 billion koruna
($11.8 billion) of assets, according to data from the Prague-
based Capital Market  Association , or AKAT. That compares with
3.1 trillion koruna placed in banks, according to data from the
Czech Banking Association as of September 2012.  The Czech draft law would open the country to new types of
asset-management businesses, including trusts and investment
companies with variable capital, known as SICAV, Jana
Michalikova, who heads AKAT, said in an interview in Prague.  “Stability is crucial for this type of business, and the
cost of ancillary services is much lower here than in  London  or
Luxembourg,” Michalikova said yesterday. “We have a fairly
well-functioning economy, rising credit ratings, a stable legal
environment, a very strong banking sector, and the Czech
National Bank is a very well respected regulator.”  The EU’s fund-management industry is led by Luxembourg, the
world’s second-largest market for investment funds after the
U.S. It has about 3,849 registered funds holding 2.5 trillion
euros of assets as of February, data from the Association of the
Luxembourg Fund Industry show.  Cyprus, Malta  Cyprus, along with fellow Mediterranean island-nation
Malta, increased its market share after joining the EU in 2004
before its financial industry was shaken this year after
exposure to Greek bonds hurt the local banks.  According to Urban, the  Czech Republic  isn’t following the
model of Cyprus, whose importance as a financial hub dates to
the late 1980s and early 1990s, when it became the banking
center for the economies of  Russia  and its neighbors.  “The big difference is the quality of banks’ balance
sheets, which in the Czech Republic is superb,” said Urban, who
worked as an investment banker at the Czech unit of Erste Group
Bank AG after starting his career at the Czech central bank.
“The money under management is not our primary target, it’s the
service money that is the primary target.”  Political Risk  The main pitfall to his plan may be political risk.  The  Social Democrats , the leading opposition party that
dominates in opinion polls, will impose special taxes on large
companies and scrap a law allowing taxpayers to divert part of
pension taxes to private funds, shadow finance minister Jan Mladek said in an interview with Bloomberg on Jan. 23.  Mladek praised Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  for
taking over about 3 trillion forint ($13 billion) of privately-
managed pension assets in 2011 to help cut the public deficit.
“Orban’s solution was brilliant -- he didn’t nationalize any
funds, he only changed the conditions to transfer people back
into the state pillar,” Mladek said.  A similar move would be more difficult in the Czech
Republic where people contribute their own money to pension
accounts, Urban said. Insolvency legislation also prevents
assets managed by funds from being seized, he said.  “This is generally valid for pension funds, for mutual
funds, for alternative funds,” Urban said. “It cannot be
seized by the insolvency administrator if it’s not part of the
balance sheet of the management company, and that is a very
strong legal protection.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  