-- LDK Sells More Shares to Fulai as Founder Stake Shrinks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-26T20:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/debt-burdened-ldk-solar-agrees-to-sell-second-15-stake.html
LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , a Chinese solar
manufacturer burdened with $2.8 billion in  debt , agreed to sell
more shares to investor Cheng Kin Ming’s Fulai Investments Ltd.,
boosting his stake in LDK to 25 percent and diluting that of its
biggest holder, founder and chairman Peng Xiaofeng.  The company will issue 25 million new shares at $1.03 each
to Fulai, which also has the right to choose two non-executive
directors, Xinyu-based LDK said today in a  statement . That will
boost the solar company’s total outstanding shares to about 169
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  This is the third time in six months that LDK has issued
new shares to an investor, and the company has now sold or
agreed to sell about 40 percent of itself. The solar
manufacturer is trying to raise capital to pay down debts after
a global oversupply of photovoltaic panels drove down  prices  and
cut into margins.  Peng owned about 72.5 million shares as of May, a majority
stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. With the newly
issued shares, his stake will decline to about  43 percent .  LDK Chief Financial Officer Jack Lai didn’t reply to phone
and e-mail messages today.  LDK sold 17 million new shares to Fulai in two installments
in February and March, about 10 percent of the current
outstanding total, and 25.3 million to Heng Rui Xin Energy Co.
on Oct. 22, now about a 15 percent stake.  Fulai Ownership  Fulai, incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, is owned
by Chinese businessman Cheng. Cheng was a government researcher
who has been involved in real estate development since 1993,
according to a 2010 credit report from Huajie Rating on his
company Shanghai Qianjiang Industry (Group) Co. Two calls to the
company weren’t answered.  Cheng also owns a 30 percent stake in another solar
company,  Shunfeng Photovoltaic International Ltd. (1165) , through an
 investment company , according to a Dec. 13 Hong Kong Stock
Exchange  filing .  The LDK transaction will be 28 percent less than the
weighted average of $1.44 each that Fulai paid for LDK shares
under its earlier deal.  The solar-panel maker reported April 18 its seventh
straight quarter of losses, with a three-year low of $98.3
million in cash.  LDK’s American depositary receipts, each worth one ordinary
share, fell 1.6 percent to $1.26 at the close in  New York . They
have declined 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  