-- Dee Milliner Receives Rare Welcome From Jets Fans at NFL Draft
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-04-26T04:40:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/dee-milliner-receives-rare-welcome-from-jets-fans-at-nfl-draft.html
Dee Milliner experienced something
last night foreign to many recent New York Jets draft picks. He
was cheered as he entered the  National Football League .  Milliner, a cornerback from the  University of Alabama , was
taken by the Jets with the No. 9 pick in last night’s draft,
followed four spots later by the team’s second selection of the
first round, defensive tackle Sheldon Richardson from the
 University of Missouri .  “I was nervous,” Milliner, 21, said in a news conference.
“I was just glad they welcomed me here.”  Jets fans have  a long history  of booing their team’s
choices at the annual draft, held at  Manhattan ’s Radio City
Music Hall since 2006. A 90-second video called “NY Jets Draft
Blunders” has more than 1 million hits on YouTube and last
year’s first-round pick, defensive end Quinton Coples, was booed
by fans who wanted the Jets to take an offensive player.  Milliner has the opportunity to succeed four-time Pro Bowl
cornerback  Darrelle Revis , traded four days earlier to the  Tampa
Bay Buccaneers . The Jets received two picks in that deal,
including the one they used to draft Richardson.  Milliner said he looks up to his predecessor, who earned
the nickname “Revis Island” for his ability to blanket the
opponent’s best receiver without assistance from teammates.
Milliner said he’ll try to build his own legacy in New York, a
city he visited for the first time this week.  Island Life  “I can’t focus on replacing somebody, because if you focus
on that you’re going to mess up on other things,” Milliner
said. “Hopefully, I can turn into one of those guys who has
their own island, just like he did.”  Milliner won two national college titles with the Crimson
Tide following the 2011 and 2012 seasons. The draft’s top-rated
defensive back and fifth-rated overall player, according to
ESPN’s Scouts Inc., Milliner had six interceptions and 136
tackles in his three-year college career.  The 6-foot, 201-pound (1.83 meter, 91 kilogram)
cornerback’s health was questioned this week after ESPN  reported 
that he’d had five surgeries, including procedures to repair a
sports hernia, a right tibia stress fracture and operations on
both shoulders. He’s not expected to be ready to play until the
end of training camp, according to the report.  New York most recently had two first-round picks in 2008,
when the team took defensive end Vernon Gholston at No. 6 and
tight end  Dustin Keller  at No. 30. In 2006, the Jets used a pair
of first-round picks to draft offensive linemen  D’Brickashaw Ferguson  and  Nick Mangold , multiple Pro Bowl selections who have
been Jets starters since their rookie seasons.  Richardson’s Tackles  The 6-foot-2, 294-pound Richardson, also on his first trip
to New York, was rated the No. 14 overall player by Scouts Inc.
He notched 79 tackles last season, more than any other defensive
tackle in the  Southeastern Conference , with 10 1/2 tackles for a
loss and four sacks.  Richardson will play on the defensive line alongside Coples
and Muhammad Wilkerson, the team’s first-round pick in 2011. The
Jets have used their past five first-round selections on
defensive players.  “We’re going to be a young defensive line,” Richardson
said. “I’m ready to get after it. Put me in pads right now.”  New York’s first two picks are notable for what they
aren’t: a quarterback. Jets starter  Mark Sanchez  was benched
twice last season while accumulating an NFL-high 26 turnovers,
including 18 interceptions, and many New York fans have called
for a change.  Sanchez Backups  Tim Tebow , acquired prior to last season, attempted eight
passes in 2012, and this offseason the team signed veteran David Garrard to compete for the starting job with Sanchez, who is
guaranteed $8.25 million in 2013. Jets General Manager John Idzik said he was looking to bring in players to push Sanchez.  The Jets finished 6-10 last year, a season that team owner
 Woody Johnson  called “disappointing” on a conference call last
week. Milliner and Richardson will join a defense that allowed
23.4 points per game in 2012, the franchise’s highest average in
16 seasons.  Richardson said he was unfazed that his welcome from Jets
fans last night was not as smooth as Milliner’s.  “I had a little mixed crowd, boos and yays,” he said.
“They can change that in one game.”  The draft continues tonight at 6:30 p.m. Eastern time with
rounds two and three.  New York ’s next pick is No. 39, the eighth
pick of the second round.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  