-- Disney Settles Dispute With Theaters Over ‘Iron Man 3’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-04-26T14:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/disney-settles-dispute-with-exhibitors-over-iron-man-3-.html
The three largest U.S. cinema
chains reached agreements to show  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “ Iron Man 
3,” settling a revenue-sharing dispute that threatened the
first big film of the summer movie season.  Regal Entertainment Group (RGC) , the largest, and No. 2 AMC
Entertainment Holdings Inc. were accepting online orders for the
May 3 opening of “Iron Man 3,” the companies said yesterday.
The No. 3 chain,  Cinemark Holdings Inc. (CNK) , also agreed to sell
tickets, according to a Disney spokesman. Terms weren’t
disclosed.  With the accords, Disney’s Marvel unit and the exhibitors
avert a potentially costly dispute. The chains had resisted the
studio’s demand for a bigger share of ticket sales. “Iron Man
3” is projected to be one of the biggest movies of the year,
with opening weekend sales of $151 million in the U.S.,
according to Boxoffice.com. The summer season accounts for about
40 percent of annual domestic cinema sales.  “We thank our partners at Disney for working with us to
achieve economical terms so we can present our guests with one
of the biggest blockbusters of 2013 and solidly kick off the
summer movie season,” AMC said in a statement yesterday.  Disney Chief Executive Officer  Robert Iger  has focused on
franchise pictures like “Toy Story,” “Iron Man” and “ Star
Wars ,” and is using its most popular films to seek better terms
from theaters.  Negotiating Clout  The Burbank, California-based company, which also plans to
release “Monsters University,” “The Lone Ranger” and
“Planes” this summer, has spent $15 billion since 2006
purchasing the Pixar, Marvel and Lucasfilm film studios.  Big budget movies typically command a larger share of the
box-office take than the average for studios, which get about 52
percent of annual ticket revenue after cinema operators deduct a
small percentage for overhead, according to  Eric Wold , an
analyst at B. Riley & Co. in San Francisco.  Disney had asked for as much as 65 percent of the revenue,
the  Los Angeles  Times reported this week. Cinemark spokesman
James Meredith didn’t respond to requests for comment. The other
companies declined to discuss their negotiations in detail.  “‘Iron Man’ is going to be a hit no matter what, but you
don’t want this kind of tension going into the most lucrative
part of the year.” Phil Contrino, chief analyst for researcher
Boxoffice.com, said in a telephone interview. “It’s a relief.”  Movie’s Open  “Iron Man 2,” released in 2010, opened with $128.1
million in U.S. weekend sales, according to Box Office Mojo.
Last year’s top-grossing film, “Marvel’s The Avengers,”
generated $207.4 million. Contrino said the slate of movies
being released in May could lift results in the second quarter
above last year’s.  Disney, the world’s largest entertainment company, was
little changed at $61.95 at 10:18 a.m. in  New York . The shares
had climbed 25 percent this year through yesterday. Regal, based
in Knoxville,  Tennessee , slipped 0.1 percent to $17.64.
Cinemark, in Plano,  Texas , added less than 1 percent to $29.11.
AMC is owned by China’s Dalian Wanda Group Corp.  Summer accounted for $4.3 billion of last year’s record
$10.8 billion in ticket revenue in the U.S. and Canada,
according to the researcher Box Office Mojo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  