-- Dove’s Fake New ’Real Beauty’ Ads
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2013-04-26T15:26:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/dove-s-fake-new-real-beauty-ads.html
Dove, the  Unilever Plc (ULVR)  personal-
care brand, has another viral hit.  Its  “Real Beauty Sketches”  tops the latest Advertising Age
 viral-video chart . The film, which portrays women having their
likenesses drawn by a forensic artist, racked up 29.4 million
views and more than 660,000 Facebook shares in its first 10
days, according to Visible Measures Corp., which  compiles  the
chart. (The video comes in three-minute and six-minute versions,
and the campaign also includes separate short interviews with
the artist and three of the women.)  “Real Beauty Sketches” intrigues audiences, and in some
cases moves them to tears, with the clever way it portrays how
women imagine their own faces. First, each subject describes
herself to the sketch artist, who can’t see her. Later, he draws
her again, this time as described by a stranger who has just
chatted with her. The stranger’s version usually looks more
attractive.  “Our self-perceptions are generally kind of harsh, and
unbecoming, when really that’s not how the world sees us,”
concludes a young woman named Melinda, whose sketch shows dark
circles the stranger didn’t mention. “We spend a lot of time as
women analyzing and trying to fix the things that aren’t quite
right, and we should spend more time appreciating the things we
do like.”  Above Average  It’s an appealing and plausible message. But, as many
critics have pointed out, this inspirational little film is
highly selective. “I kept picturing all of the women I see on
the subway, at highway rest stops, in suburban malls. Yes, some
of them look like the women in the ad, but most of them don’t,”
 Slate’s David Zweig  writes.  He’s right: When you set out to portray beauty, rather
than, say, kindness or intelligence, you wind up showing people
who are better looking than average. And when you’re from the
affluent creative class, your idea of beauty is even narrower.  The women in the film aren’t just attractive. They skew
toward a trim, healthy, “natural” style that reflects the
shoot’s San Francisco location. They were “women that could
represent well Dove’s concept of ‘Real Beauty,’” Anselmo Ramos,
Ogilvy & Mather  Brazil ’s creative lead on the project,  told Fast
Company . None would fit easily into a hip-hop video or “Real
Housewives” show. Their looks, while diverse in some ways, are
culturally specific.  Such selective data wouldn’t matter, except that Dove is
invoking the aura of science. It calls the stunt “a social
experiment” -- relentlessly -- and encourages us to imagine that
the campaign proves something about how women in general think
and how women in general are perceived.  In fact, we have no idea whether the procedure would
produce similar results for women whose looks are below average.
Maybe there’s a tendency for people to see themselves as closer
to average than they are, or maybe strangers would exaggerate
unattractive women’s flaws.  We don’t even know how it would work with pretty women who
wear a lot of makeup. Would Dove have gotten the same results in
 Dallas ?  To ask that question is to fall for the “social experiment”
charade. Make no mistake: This venture has nothing to do with
science. It is a brilliantly crafted branding project and even
more selective than it initially appears. It wasn’t likely to
produce surprises.  Forensic Art  Gil Zamora , the forensic artist, is indeed a well-respected
professional who worked for many years doing composite sketches
for the San Jose,  California , Police Department. But, unlike his
interview subjects, he knew the point of the exercise going in.
The “experiment” wasn’t double-blind. Zamora’s knowledge matters
because a verbal description of any given feature allows a lot
of interpretative leeway, and he could have unconsciously biased
his drawings.  “This is a social experiment,” he said in an interview,
repeating the Dove mantra. “We were trying to show how women are
their own worst beauty critics and how they see themselves and
how others see them.” Right.  Exacerbating the potential for bias, Zamora deviated from
his standard procedure, which includes giving the witness a
chance to review the sketch and correct any misinterpretations.
There are two possible sources of error in a composite sketch:
the witness’s memory of what the person looked like and how that
memory gets translated from impression to words to drawing. One
witness’s “round face” is fat but oval, another’s is round and
not especially fleshy, while another’s is what an artist would
call square. Proportions mean different things to different
people. And some people simply have limited vocabularies.  Back-and-forth collaboration gets around this problem. It’s
crucial to making sure an interviewee’s verbal description
matches the picture in his or her mind. “Ultimately the
individual that describes gives you a thumbs up and says, ‘Yes,
that reminds me of that person,’” Zamora said. But, in the Dove
case, neither the women nor the strangers got that chance. So
even a woman with a 100 percent accurate mental self-image might
wind up with a misleading sketch, because her idea of a round
face or pointed chin wasn’t the same as the artist’s.  As a result, “it’s a tainted image, there’s no question
about it,” says  Stephen Mancusi , a forensic artist formerly with
the  New York  Police Department and the author of the textbook
“The Police Composite Sketch.” He continued: “For entertainment
value, that’s fine. It’s interesting. But it’s not what they’re
selling, because you’re not getting the subject’s own
perceptions.”  Selective Bias  Take Florence, the star of the shorter video. Her most
striking features are her long, light-blond hair and her long
face, both of which appear in the stranger’s sketch. In the
sketch based on her own description, however, Florence has a
wide face and medium-dark hair. The mole on her cheek and deep
lines around her mouth may reflect her greater awareness of her
flaws, but is she really deluded about the color of her hair? Or
did something simply get lost in the translation from word to
picture?  The strangers also didn’t have a chance to check the
sketches. And, least among those shown on the video, the
strangers’ sketches seem not only more flattering but also, on
the whole, closer to a viewer’s perception than the women’s.
That result supports the Dove message about self-perception. But
it, too, could reflect the selective use of data.  Zamora says he sketched about 20 women over two and a half
days. Only seven made it into the video, and only three of those
-- all of them white,  critics  are quick to note -- are shown
long enough for viewers to get a good sense of how their actual
appearance compares with the sketches. On its website, Dove
provides side-by-side comparisons of the sketches of the seven
women but no photos.  There are many reasons to choose some women and not others
for the video, ranging from how well they speak to whether they
were available for the big reveal. But it’s hard to imagine that
the director didn’t try to make the most compelling movie
possible, choosing the sketches that showed drastic contrasts.
Few, if any, viewers realize they’re seeing only about a third
of the subjects of the “social experiment.” (When I asked Dove,
before my interview with Zamora, how many participants there
were, I got the carefully worded reply: “Seven real women
participated in the creation of the film.”) However media-savvy
we may be, we tend to believe that a “documentary” reflects
reality -- even if it’s quite obviously an ad.  For all the scientific flimflam, the positive message of
“Real Beauty Sketches” isn’t actually that controversial. In the
mind’s eye, we don’t in fact notice the minor imperfections in
most of the faces we see every day. We pick up an impression
that includes facial features but also personality and demeanor.
As a reminder of how others most likely see us, the video serves
Dove’s sensible vision of “a world where beauty is a source of
confidence, not anxiety.”  Imperfection Obsessions  But the campaign also encourages the perception that it’s
normal, if undesirable, for grown women to obsess about their
imperfections. The most striking difference Zamora noticed
between the women and the strangers wasn’t in their attitudes
but in the depth of their knowledge. “The real women definitely
gave me more information about every feature,” he says. They
knew what their faces looked like in detail, and detail
inevitably reveals imperfections.  That’s where the faux science is worrisome. The exercise
conflates awareness of your flaws with misery and low self-
esteem. Dove laments that “only 4 percent of women around the
world consider themselves beautiful.” But “beautiful” means
something stronger than “above average,” and there’s a big
difference between not calling yourself “beautiful” and thinking
you’re a worthless human being.  (Virginia Postrel is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies,” “The Substance of Style”
and the forthcoming “The Power of Glamour.” Follow her on
Twitter  @vpostrel . The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 