-- Dutch Man Arrested in Spain in Probe of Spamhaus Attack
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-04-26T17:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/dutch-man-arrested-in-spain-in-probe-of-spamhaus-attack.html
A Dutch man was arrested in Spain
for possible involvement in one of the largest online attacks
ever, the Dutch public prosecutor’s office said.  The 35 year-old man, identified only as S.K., was arrested
after the Netherlands issued a European arrest warrant tied to
the Internet attack on anti-spam group Spamhaus, the
prosecutor’s office said today in a  statement . Several computers
and mobile phones were seized after a search of a house in
Barcelona where the suspect stayed, the office said.  “K. is suspected of unprecedentedly heavy attacks on not-
for-profit organization Spamhaus,” Dutch public prosecutors
said. “These so-called DDoS attacks also targeted Spamhaus
partners in the U.S., the Netherlands and U.K. last month.”  On March 15, a massive data stream flooded the websites of
Spamhaus and other victims at a pace that eventually peaked at
300 billion bits per second, several times the size of attacks
against websites of U.S. banks in late December and early
January. Millions of people may have been affected by
disruptions and a slowdown of the Internet that resulted,
Geneva-based Spamhaus said last month.  The attacks made networks unavailable to intended users by
overloading servers with coordinated requests to access it,
according to security firm Kaspersky Lab. The so-called
distributed denial of service, or DDoS, attacks were intended as
retribution for Spamhaus’s blacklisting of a handful of accused
spammers who were clients of a firm known as CyberBunker.  The suspected is expected to be handed over to Dutch
authorities soon, according to today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at   mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  