-- East Europe’s Bank Funding Shift Risks Credit Crunch: IMF
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-04-26T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/east-europe-s-bank-funding-shift-risks-credit-crunch-imf.html
Eastern European banks reducing
their reliance on volatile foreign funding may deepen a credit
crunch and thwart the economic recovery if done too fast, the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  Eastern European countries relied on foreign investment to
reshape their economies during the transition from communist to
free-market principles since 1989. While foreign ownership
brought benefits such as better banking practices and access to
credit, it also “extended economic booms only to be followed by
deep recessions,” Bas Bakker, chief of the IMF’s emerging
Europe division and his deputy, Christoph Klingen, wrote in a
report published today.  Foreign lenders such as  Italy ’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Austria ’s
 Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , which own about three-quarters of banks in
the continent’s east, are trimming financing and capital to
their units as stricter regulations require them to repair
balance sheets. While the shift to more local funding is
“appropriate,” policy makers should avoid “ring-fencing”
capital and liquidity, the IMF said in the report.  “The recent post-global crisis trend which is underway
toward less reliance on foreign funding and its associated
volatility is welcome,” Aasim Husain, deputy director of the
IMF’s European Department, said yesterday during a conference
call. “However, the process should neither go too fast nor too
far, otherwise it risks crimping credit provision and economic
recovery. One would also lose the benefits from financial
integration.”  Western Funding  Financing from western banks to the region grew to about $1
trillion in 2008, from about $200 billion in 2002, representing
a quarter of the area’s gross domestic product, the IMF said.
About half was funding for lenders, mostly as loans, with the
rest being cross-border credit to non-banking subjects,
according to the Washington-based lender.  About a third of the boom-time inflows were withdrawn
between 2008 and 2012, reflecting strains on western banks and
sluggish credit demand amid an economic slowdown, the IMF said.  Policy makers should facilitate “an orderly” transition
toward a more stable funding model by pushing ahead with the
creation of a European banking union, improving the
implementation of tougher regulations in the west and the east
and removing obstacles to credit expansion, Bakker and Klingen
wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  