-- ECB’s Provopoulos Says the Worst of Europe’s Debt Crisis Is Over
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s
-- 2013-04-26T09:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/ecb-s-provopoulos-says-the-worst-of-europe-s-debt-crisis-is-over.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member George Provopoulos comments on the debt crisis,
the ECB’s bond-buying plan, Cyprus and the Greek economy.  Provopoulos, who also heads Greece’s central bank, made the
remarks in an interview in  Athens  yesterday.  On the debt crisis:  “I think the worst of the debt crisis is behind us. This
does not mean that all weaknesses have been dealt with or that
the road ahead will be without bumps. But I think the worst is
over.  “We need to continue to improve the architecture. A number
of things were decided last year regarding governance, but also
in other fields such as banking union which in my view have been
a quite positive step forward. How soon growth will return will
depend entirely on how soon  Europe , especially the peripheral
countries, are able to rebalance their economies. And we have
made good progress in that area, with  Greece  being a prime
example.  “The decision which we have taken regarding OMT has helped
enormously, even though it has not been used. Given that in the
last few months we have had a kind of stabilization,
normalization of financial markets, perhaps it will never be
used. It is a good thing that we have decided to go ahead with
that, just in case it would be needed.”  On Cyprus:  “Last month, there were concerns of a potentially systemic
problem coming from Cyprus. Especially in Greece, there was
quite a lot of concern, given that there are close economic and
financial links between the countries. Nevertheless, things are
calm now in Greece.  “At the  Bank of Greece (TELL) , we have been able to protect the
deposits of branches of Cypriot banks in Greece, after the
decision about ring-fencing that was taken by the Eurogroup. We
have moved in a very swift way to make sure that the transfer of
the operations of the businesses of the Cypriot branches to a
Greek systemic bank was done in a smooth and fast way, so that
we averted the potential of adverse results.  “The trade flows between the two countries are such that,
on the basis of certain assumptions about what will happen in
Cyprus in terms of growth, one could have envisaged that the
effect on Greek GDP would be around 0.35 percentage point. But
the total influence is shaped not just by trade flows but by
what happens in the banking sector, on the  stock exchanges , etc.
If something bad had happened in the banking sector, if we were
unable to ring-fence for instance, the total effect could have
been much larger.  “The original idea of taxing all deposits in Cyprus had
two weaknesses. First, all depositors, regardless of the amount
of deposit, would have been affected. This idea would have been
contrary to the established principle under which small
depositors were fully protected. Thus, the idea violated this
principle. The second reason had to do with the fact that while
there were two weak banks in Cyprus, all banks would have been
affected. These two elements, which fortunately did not remain
in the final agreement, I considered negative.  “It was a political decision to use the bail-in tool in
the case of Cyprus. The European bail-in directive was almost
finalized at that point, according to which bail-in is one of
the instruments that could be used in the future in case there
was a possibility of individual banking failures. There are
useful elements in the principle of a bail-in, especially from
the point of view of fairness. But this is something that
refers, if at all, to the future. It certainly has nothing to do
with Greece.  “We don’t have final data, but April was a difficult
month, because we had two major incidents. First, the Cypriot
crisis, which affected psychology, and, second, we had the
discussion about bail-ins.  “This was unfortunate because this debate followed within
days after the Cypriot crisis, a fact which made them appear
inter-related; this created problems.  “There was some concern about Greek deposits in April.
There may have been outflows. But I’m expecting a resumption of
the steady improvement that we have seen since June. Given that
there is an overall climate of improved psychology, with the
government delivering, deposits will continue coming back.  “There’s no reversal in the general trend, although, as I
mentioned, April appears to have been a difficult month which
was affected by these two factors. Let me also remind you in
this connection that since the June elections we had deposit
inflows of some 20 billion, while the pace of credit contraction
has been kept moderate, at 4 percent. In fact, we have recently
seen some improvement in credit flows.”  On Austerity:  “Given that the sovereign was out of the market, there was
no alternative but to follow a very strong fiscal consolidation
effort. If you are cut off from the markets, there is no other
way. A theoretical discussion about milder austerity in a
country like Greece was not on the agenda. If at the time when
the first adjustment programme was agreed upon in May 2010, the
Greeks had followed a milder path, that would have meant that
other European countries would have had to put much more money
on the table. I doubt whether they would have been willing to
pay more, in order for us to have a milder, smoother path.  “Within Greece, the fast pace of fiscal consolidation is
having painful costs, because it means higher unemployment,
lower incomes, lower salaries, higher taxes. But, given our deep
initial fiscal imbalances, there was no other alternative.  “I think the discussion about the fiscal multiplier misses
the main point. Let’s assume for a moment that the fiscal
multiplier was double than what the Troika calculated. What
would that mean? It would mean that we should go more slowly. It
would also mean that the other Europeans would have to increase
the amount of financial support, and again, I doubt whether such
a willingness would have been there.  On the  Greek economy :  “I expect to see a return to positive growth in the near
future. The growth rate next year will be influenced by this
year’s outcome, as there will be the usual carry-over effect.  “But what is important is that at some point in the near
future, certainly by mid-2014 and probably sooner, we will see
the economy picking up. I expect to see definite signs of a
turn-around by that time. We could expect some positive signs
even earlier, as the government continues to implement reforms.
The government is determined to carry out the needed structural
reforms that will lead the Greek economy to a sustainable growth
path.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Athens at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  