-- ECB Says Private Lending Contracted for 11th Month in March
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-04-26T08:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/ecb-says-private-lending-contracted-for-11th-month-in-march.html
Lending to households and companies
in the euro area contracted for an 11th month in March as the
region struggled to emerge from recession.  Loans to the private sector fell 0.8 percent from a year
earlier after also dropping an annual 0.8 percent in February,
the Frankfurt-based  European Central Bank  said today.  Demand for loans declined in the first quarter and euro-
area banks tightened credit standards amid economic uncertainty,
the ECB’s quarterly Bank Lending Survey showed this week. ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said this month that funding conditions
for small- and medium-sized firms are “tight” and policy
makers are looking at options to support an economic recovery.  “There’s a high spread between the so-called core and the
euro-area periphery,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at
UniCredit Group in Munich. “It’s very easy for a German company
to get a loan while businesses in southern Europe struggle to
get capital.”  The rate of growth in M3  money supply , which the ECB uses
as a gauge of future inflation, fell to 2.6 percent in March
from 3.1 percent in February.  M3 grew 3 percent in the three months through March from
the same period a year earlier. M3 is the broadest gauge of
 money supply  and includes cash in circulation, some forms of
savings and money-market holdings.  Banks including UBS AG, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
and Nomura International Plc forecast that the ECB will cut its
 benchmark rate  to a record low of 0.5 percent next week.  Still, ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said
yesterday that a rate reduction may have only a limited effect
on countries in the periphery.  “The pass-through of rate cuts to the periphery would be
limited, and this is where they are most needed,” Asmussen
said. “At the same time, rate cuts would further relax already
unprecedentedly easy financing conditions in the core.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  