-- ECB’s Asmussen Says Very Low Interest Rates Come With Costs
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-04-26T09:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/ecb-s-asmussen-says-very-low-interest-rates-come-with-costs.html
European Central Bank board member
Joerg Asmussen said there are risks in keeping  interest rates 
low for a long time.  “If interest rates stay too low for too long this would
reduce the incentives for governments, corporates and banks to
adjust,” Asmussen said today in a speech in Frankfurt. “So the
costs of very low interest rates are real.” He also said the
effect of any further rate reductions may only be “limited”
because they are not being passed on in the economies that need
them most.  With doubts growing about the ECB’s projection for an
economic recovery later this year, policy makers have signaled
they are looking at a range of measures, including cutting
interest rates further. Banks including Nomura International
Plc, UBS AG and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  forecast the
ECB will reduce its  benchmark rate  when officials convene for
their monthly meeting on May 2.  “Rate cuts would further relax the already unprecedented
easy financing conditions in the core” of the euro area,
Asmussen said. “This is not per se a problem, but interest
rates that are too low for too long can eventually lead to
distortions, could lead to misallocation of resources, which
ultimately leads to lower growth potential.”  Asmussen said the ECB can’t emulate the policies of the
Bank of England,  Bank of Japan  and  Federal Reserve .  “Many people ask why doesn’t the ECB do more, why doesn’t
it copy the measures of the  Bank of England , the Fed or the  Bank
of Japan ,” he said. “We have to respect our mandate, which is
 price stability . That means that there are certain ideas, like
higher inflation, target the rate of unemployment, these are
ideas that we simply cannot entertain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  