-- Telenor First-Quarter Sales Miss Estimates on Stronger Krone
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-04-26T07:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/telenor-first-quarter-profit-tops-estimates-as-costs-decline.html
Telenor ASA (TEL) , the Nordic region’s
largest phone operator, reported sales that missed analyst
estimates as the Easter holiday reduced customers’ phone and
data use and the Norwegian krone strengthened.  Sales during the first quarter slipped 1.6 percent from a
year earlier to 24.7 billion kroner ($4.21 billion), the company
said in a statement. Analysts  predicted revenue  of 25.2 billion
kroner, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Telenor cited
the krone’s appreciation and the effects of an earlier Easter in
2013 in its home market as reasons for lower revenue. The stock
fell as much as 3.1 percent, the biggest intraday drop in almost
5 months.  Chief Executive Officer Jon Fredrik Baksaas is expanding
the Fornebu, Norway-based company’s wireless network in its home
markets to fend off rivals and boost revenue. As competition
weighs on prices at home, the phone operator is adding users in
 Asia  while seeking to reduce costs by 5 billion kroner by 2015.  “Telenor is still one of the few operators that is seeing
growth, even though they lowered their guidance a bit,” said
Sven Skold, an analyst at Stockholm-based  Swedbank AB. (SWEDA)  “Norway
was slightly lower than many expected, but Telenor attributes
that to the Easter holiday and the leap day, which makes sense.
For those holding Telenor for  the long story , that’s intact.”  Telenor shares were trading down 2.7 percent to 127.1
kroner at 9:38 a.m. in Oslo, giving the company a market value
of 198 billion kroner. The state-controlled carrier has seen its
 shares  rise 14 percent so far this year, extending last year’s
14 percent gain.  Forecast Cut  Telenor reiterated its expectation of a margin on earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of about
34 percent. The measure was 34.1 percent in the first quarter.
The company forecast revenue growth, excluding the effect of
currency swings, acquisitions or sales, of 2 percent to 4
percent this year from an earlier prediction of 3 percent to 5
percent.  Sales in  Norway , its largest market with 26 percent of
revenue last year, fell 0.9 percent to 6.16 billion kroner as
the carrier’s mobile revenue declined. DTAC in  Thailand  boosted
revenue 7.4 percent, while Telenor’s Malaysian division DiGi saw
its sales gain 1.2 percent.  Net income rose to 3.6 billion kroner after the company
reported a 3.9 billion-krone impairment charge in  India  a year
earlier, Telenor said. Analysts predicted 3.55 billion kroner,
the average of 12 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  