-- Emerging Stocks Trim Gain as Commodity Drop Sinks Brazil
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-26T22:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/emerging-stocks-head-for-the-biggest-weekly-advance-in-a-month.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, paring
a weekly advance in the benchmark index, as declines in
commodity producers overshadowed gains in Chinese banks.  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , Russia’s biggest oil producer, slumped as
crude dropped. Bank of Communications Co. rose to a two-month
high in  Hong Kong  after the Chinese lender reported earnings
that beat analysts’ estimates. The rand weakened for the first
time in four days after South Africa’s central bank said more
borrowing and higher inflation risked sending bond yields
higher. Steelmaker Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA sank
in  Sao Paulo  after its first-quarter net loss more than doubled.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slid 0.5 percent to
1,022.36, trimming its gain for the week to 1.1 percent. Stocks
joined commodities lower as a data showed the  U.S. economy  grew
less than forecast, while confidence among American consumers
declined to a three-month low. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index
of 24 commodities pared its biggest weekly rally since February.  The U.S. growth number “was a mild disappointment,”
Christopher Orndorff, who helps oversee $450 billion as a senior
portfolio manager at Western Asset Management Co. in  Pasadena ,
 California , said by phone. Commodities were affected by concern
about  Europe  and demand coming from region, he said.  About 55 percent of companies in the MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index that posted quarterly profits have  trailed  estimates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The index lost 3.1
percent this year, trailing an 8.9 percent increase in the MSCI
World Index of developed-country stocks. The emerging-markets
measure trades at 10.7 times 12-month  projected  profit, compared
with the MSCI World’s valuation of 14.2.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, dropped 1
percent to $42.24, snapping its longest stretch of gains since
December. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets
ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund
and expectations of price swings, rose 1.5 percent to 18.88.  Brazil’s Ibovespa slipped 1.3 percent as Usiminas sank 5.3
percent. Fibria Celulose SA, the world’s largest pulp producer,
dropped 6.6 percent.  The Mexican IPC index declined 1.5 percent as Corp. Geo
SAB, Mexico’s second-biggest homebuilder by revenue, plunged 28
percent as the company said it would miss an interest payment
and that cash tumbled by 84 percent during the first quarter.  Rosneft dropped 1.1 percent in Moscow, while United Co.
Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer, slid 1.6 percent.
Moscow’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF) , which was little changed today, surged 2.5
percent this week. Benchmark stock gauges in Poland and Turkey
advanced, while Hungarian stocks fell. Stocks in the  Czech
Republic  dropped a second day.  Chinese Stocks  The Shanghai Composite Index lost 1 percent to the lowest
level since December, while the Hang Seng  China  Enterprises
Index of mainland companies listed in Hong Kong capped a third
straight day of gains. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  fell 0.4
percent. India’s S&P BSE Sensex slid for the first time in five
days, losing 0.6 percent.  Bank of Communications, China’s fifth-largest lender, rose
0.8 percent and  Bank of China Ltd.  added 1.4 percent in Hong
Kong after posting record quarterly profits as they boosted
income from loans and fee-based services.  BYD Co., the Chinese automaker partially owned by  Warren
Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., soared 12 percent in Hong
Kong after saying first-half profit may surge 31-fold.  Baidu Inc., owner of China’s largest Internet search
engine, sank 7.9 percent in  New York , the most since Feb. 5,
after net income trailed estimates.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 297 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  