-- Merkel Takes on Anti-Bailout Group in Defense of Euro Area
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-04-26T15:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/merkel-takes-on-anti-bailout-group-in-defense-of-euro-area.html
German Chancellor Angela Merkel
took aim at critics of the euro and her debt-crisis policies,
rejecting the suggestion that bailouts of countries in the
single currency area breached European treaties.  “I do make an effort to observe the treaties, and that’s
probably what you thought anyway,” Merkel told a conference of
family entrepreneurs in Berlin today after the group’s head
criticized her backing for financial rescues of euro countries.  Germany ’s  constitutional court  ruled in the 1990s that
 Europe ’s biggest economy can take part in the joint currency
“as long as it’s stable,” Merkel said in a speech. “That
means that when this stability is in question, it’s incumbent
upon us to do something for the stability of the euro area.”  Merkel’s rebuff also sends a signal to the anti-euro
Alternative for Germany, the first party founded on an explicit
platform of getting Germany out of the euro area. While the
party said it has attracted more than 10,000 members in seven
weeks, three polls this week put voter support at 2-3 percent,
short of the 5 percent needed to enter parliament in Sept. 22
federal elections.  Merkel bristled after Lutz Goebel, head of the family
business group Die Familienunternehmer, questioned the legality
of her support for the rescues of  Greece , Ireland,  Portugal ,
 Spain  and Cyprus. “No bailout means no bailout,” he said in
his introductory speech.  “If you say that what happened in the last few years isn’t
within the treaties, you’re saying nothing less than that our
Federal Constitutional Court hasn’t interpreted them
correctly,” Merkel said. “I’d be careful about that.”  European Union leaders were in uncharted territory after
Greece touched off the debt crisis, she said. “None of us
expected to find ourselves in such a situation. I might add that
the markets also didn’t predict it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  