-- Letta Makes Progress on Italy Deal With Berlusconi Encouragement
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-04-26T11:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/letta-makes-progress-on-italy-deal-with-berlusconi-encouragement.html
Italy’s prime minister-designate,
Enrico Letta, made progress in his bid to form a government as
 Silvio Berlusconi  signaled he’ll back the effort.  Letta, 46, is stitching together a broad coalition to join
his  Democratic Party , the largest force in parliament, with
Berlusconi, a three-time former prime minister who heads the
second-biggest group. Letta met with representatives from
various political parties yesterday, and Berlusconi said his
lawmakers were encouraged by the discussions.  “It didn’t seem to me that there were real problems on the
program,” Berlusconi said in an interview posted on the website
of his  Mediaset SpA. (MS)  “On the things that need to be done, the
prime minister in waiting demonstrated a very positive
approach.”  Letta is seeking to build consensus around a policy program
and Cabinet to replace Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s caretaker
administration. On April 24, Letta was selected by President
Giorgio Napolitano and given a mandate to lead the next
government. If he wins over a majority of lawmakers, he will
return to Napolitano for his appointment as premier and present
his government to parliament for a confidence vote.  Letta won the endorsement of Florence Mayor Matteo Renzi,
one of the most popular leaders in the Democratic Party, or PD.
Renzi’s backing may help Letta ease tension in the PD on the so-
called political left as some lawmakers resist an alliance with
Berlusconi, their traditional rival.  ‘Strong Words’  “Letta has all the elements to overcome all of the
difficulties,” Renzi, 38, said in an interview televised on
SkyTG24 today. “It won’t be easy, because naturally there is
anti-Berlusconi-ism, there have been strong words from the
center-right about the left. But I think good sense will
prevail.”  Italian politicians have struggled since inconclusive
elections Feb. 24-25 to patch together the parliamentary
majority needed to support new government. The next
administration will be charged with passing economic stimulus
measures and guarding against a return of default speculation on
the sovereign bond markets.  Renzi had the trust of 55 percent of voters in a March 29
SWG Institute opinion poll, ranking first ahead of national
leaders including the PD’s then-chief, Pier Luigi Bersani, with
30 percent, Berlusconi’s 26 percent and Monti with 19 percent.  Letta became head of the PD this week after the resignation
of Bersani, who failed for eight-weeks to resolve the political
impasse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  