-- Letta Draws Closer to Deal to Form Government With Berlusconi
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-04-26T22:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/letta-draws-closer-to-deal-to-form-government-with-berlusconi.html
Enrico Letta is closing in on a
deal that would install him as Italian prime minister, ending a
two-month political impasse and bringing forces loyal to  Silvio Berlusconi  back to power.  Letta, 46, may report to President Giorgio Napolitano as
soon as today to accept the mandate as premier and announce a
Cabinet, said a person familiar with Letta’s reasoning who
requested anonymity because the decision hasn’t been made. A
confidence vote in parliament could come as soon as Monday, the
person said.  Consensus has been building around Letta since Napolitano
turned to him April 24 to break the gridlock that descended
after inconclusive elections Feb. 24 and Feb. 25. Berlusconi, a
three-time former premier, said he was pleased with alliance
talks, while leaders within Letta’s own  Democratic Party , or PD,
have endorsed the effort. Even so, the list of Cabinet ministers
and policy priorities are still under negotiation.  “Letta’s efforts to form a Cabinet may lead to political
frictions,” Peter Ceretti, an analyst with Eurasia Group in  New
York , said yesterday in a report. “While the distances between
the main political parties appear surmountable under pressure
from Napolitano, coming to a final arrangement may still require
some negotiating.”  Former Prime Minister Giuliano Amato may be given the
position of economy minister, and deputy premier may go to
Angelino Alfano, general secretary of Berlusconi’s People of
Liberty Party, or former Senate Speaker Renato Schifani,
 Corriere Della Sera  reported yesterday. The Foreign Ministry may
be given to former Premier  Massimo D’Alema  or  Mario Monti , the
outgoing prime minister, La Repubblica newspaper reported.  Berlusconi’s Future  Berlusconi, the 76-year-old billionaire who was forced out
in November 2011 as the European financial crisis roiled Italian
markets, said that he probably won’t serve as a minister. In an
interview posted on the website of  Mediaset SpA (MS) , the broadcaster
he controls, Berlusconi said negotiations have been
constructive.  “It didn’t seem to me that there were real problems on the
program,” Berlusconi said.  Investors took the impasse in stride, sending Italian
borrowing costs down the past two months. The two-year note
yield reached a record low this week and closed yesterday at
1.29 percent, down from 1.67 percent when voters went to the
polls.  The gulf between the PD and People of Liberty, or PDL, has
narrowed as  Italy  sinks deeper into recession and the country’s
traditional political rivalries are upended by the emergence of
Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement. Policy positions converged
after Grillo won a quarter of the votes in the February voting;
both the PD and PDL call for fiscal stimulus in bids to recover
their constituencies after the austerity imposed during Monti’s
tenure as premier.  Tax Promises  Berlusconi has promised to abolish a levy on primary
residences, while the PD has pushed for easing the burden on
lower-income families.  Letta needs an alliance to gain control of the Senate,
which is split into three blocs represented by the PD, PDL and
Five Star. The strategy to engage PDL marked a reversal for the
PD, which initially shunned Berlusconi and pursued a deal with
Grillo. That approach, under the PD’s former leader Pier Luigi Bersani, failed and nearly caused the party to breakup.  Florence Mayor Matteo Renzi, who lost to Bersani in last
year’s PD primary, said Letta is the right person to oversee a
partnership with Berlusconi. An eventual PD-PDL government will
probably include Monti’s Civic Choice party, parliament’s fourth
biggest force.  “Letta has all the elements to overcome all of the
difficulties,” Renzi, 38, said in an interview televised on
SkyTG24 yesterday. “It won’t be easy, because naturally there
is anti-Berlusconi-ism, there have been strong words from the
center-right about the left. But I think good sense will
prevail.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  