-- EU Seeks to Improve Labor Mobility Amid Record Unemployment
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2013-04-26T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/eu-seeks-to-improve-labor-mobility-amid-record-unemployment.html
The European Union proposed
measures to improve the free movement of workers in the 27-
nation bloc as policy makers search for ways to boost economic
growth and fight record unemployment.  The proposal comes a day after  Spain  said that nation’s
 jobless rate  topped 27 percent in the first quarter, reaching
the highest in more than three decades. Unemployment in the 17-
nation euro area stood at a record 12 percent in February and is
forecast to rise further, according to a Bloomberg News survey
of economists.  “With much higher levels of unemployment in some  member
states  than others at the moment, it is all the more important
to make it easier for those that want to work in another EU
country to be able to do so,” EU Employment Commissioner Laszlo Andor said in a statement.  The number of jobless in Spain increased to more than 6
million for the first time in the first quarter, the National
Statistics Institute in  Madrid  said yesterday. Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is set today to unveil measures aimed at
halting a six-year economic slump in the country, which has more
than one-fifth of all unemployed people in the EU.  Jobless rates are “unbearably high” in some European
nations, EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said yesterday in Brussels. Spain’s “very high unemployment and
excessively tight financing conditions have exposed the
vulnerabilities represented by” the country’s macroeconomic
imbalances, he said.  Labor Mobility  About 9.5 million Europeans, or 3 percent of the EU labor
force, live and work in another EU nation, according to EU data.
An additional 1.2 million people reside in one EU country but
work in another. The planned measures announced today aim “to
enhance labor mobility in the EU by preventing discrimination
and reducing the incidence of unfair practices migrant workers
face in  Europe ,” the EU said.  Under the proposal, EU governments would be required to
establish “national contact points” for migrant workers and to
provide redress mechanisms at national level. The proposal needs
approval by EU governments and the European Parliament.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jones Hayden at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net  