-- Dollar Slides as U.S. Growth Falls Short of Forecast; Yen Climbs
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-04-26T21:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/euro-poised-for-second-weekly-drop-on-ecb-yen-falls-before-boj.html
The dollar fell versus the majority
of its 16 most-traded peers after U.S. gross domestic product
increased less than forecast in the first quarter, adding to
concern the world’s biggest economy is struggling to grow.  The yen climbed against the greenback, gaining for the
first week since March, as investors sought safety and the  Bank
of Japan  failed to outline additional stimulus efforts. The GDP
report damped bets the  Federal Reserve  will slow the pace of its
bond buying under quantitative easing. Sweden’s krona rose for a
third day against the euro.  “The softness in the U.S. numbers is leading to further
discussion of how the Fed is going to manage its QE policy
moving forward,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank, said by phone from Toronto. “It has led
to expectations that there may be less talk of Fed tapering and
more focus on how to continue to support the economy.”  The greenback dropped 1.2 percent to 98.05 yen at 5 p.m.
 New York  time and touched 97.56, the lowest level since April
17. It lost 1.5 percent this week against the Japanese currency,
the most since June. The yen rallied 1.1 percent to 127.73 per
euro. The dollar declined 0.2 percent against the euro to
$1.3030.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $26 billion, compared with total turnover yesterday of
$33 billion, according to data reported by U.S. banks to the
Depository Trust Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume
in options on the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $10.7
billion, the largest share of trades at 41 percent. Options on
the euro-dollar were the second most actively traded, at $2.9
billion, or 11 percent.  Below Average  Dollar-yen options trading was about 5 percent below the
average for the past five Fridays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Turnover in euro-dollar options
fell short of average readings by 50 percent.  Futures traders decreased their bets that the yen will
decline against the  U.S. dollar , figures from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference
in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large
speculators on a decline in the yen compared with those on an
increase -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 79,730 on April 23,
compared with net shorts of 93,411 a week earlier.  Traders reversed bets that the Swiss franc will decline
against the greenback. Net-long  bets  that the franc will rise
against the dollar totaled 1,179 on April 23, compared with net
shorts of 3,253 a week earlier.  The Swiss currency gained 0.2 percent today to 94.29
centimes per dollar, paring a weekly loss to 1 percent.  U.S. GDP  The greenback extended losses versus the yen as Commerce
Department data showed U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 2.5
percent annual rate, after a 0.4 percent fourth-quarter advance.
The median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a 3 percent gain.  Consumer spending , the biggest part of the
economy, climbed by the most since the fourth quarter of 2010.  U.S. growth will slow to a 1.6 percent pace this quarter, a
Bloomberg survey forecast. The lagged effect of a jump in the
 payroll tax  at the start of 2013, and $85 billion in automatic
budget cuts that began March 1, may take more of a toll.  “Investors have been concentrating a lot on headline
numbers, which are confirming that the government sector is
being a drag on the economy,” Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-
exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, said of
the GDP data in a telephone interview. “But we haven’t reached
that threshold where it’s extremely weak, which would cause a
flight to safer assets.”  Bond Buying  The Fed, which opens a two-day meeting April 30, is buying
$85 billion of bonds a month to put downward pressure on
borrowing costs. Minutes of the central bank’s March meeting
showed policy makers discussed slowing purchases this year.  The dollar increased 2.5 percent over the past three months
against nine developed-nation peers tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Indexes, the second-best performance. The
yen fell 5.7 percent.  The krona advanced today versus all of its major
counterparts except the yen after Sweden’s National Institute of
 Economic Research  said its  consumer confidence  index climbed to
5.2 in April, from 2.8 the prior month.  The Swedish currency strengthened 0.3 percent to 8.5652 per
euro and appreciated 0.5 percent to 6.5732 per dollar.  Rand Falls  South Africa ’s rand fell versus most major peers after the
country’s central bank warned of increased borrowing and
accelerating inflation risk. The currency lost as much as 0.8
percent to 9.1662 to the greenback before trading up 0.1 percent
to 9.1019.  The yen strengthened after the Bank of  Japan  maintained its
pledge to double its monetary base in two years and didn’t offer
additional measures. BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said no policy
maker judged additional easing was needed now, and that
adjustments would be made if necessary.  Kuroda announced the program of increased purchases mainly
of  government bonds  after the BOJ’s  previous meeting  on April 4.  “They haven’t done anything new here,” Dan Dorrow, the
head of research at Faros Trading LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
said in a phone interview. “The BOJ just reaffirmed the big
bang in terms of the quantity of the monetary base. It seems
like there’s a little bit less intensity around reaching the 2
percent inflation target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  