-- European Power Trading Falls a Second Year as Banks Drop Out
-- B y   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-04-26T13:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/european-power-trading-slides-for-second-year-as-banks-drop-out.html
Power trading in western  Europe ’s
seven biggest markets shrank for a second year in 2012 as banks
and utilities, including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and EON SE, reduced
trading activities.  Volumes of electricity bought and sold in Germany, the
Nordic region, the U.K., France, the Netherlands,  Italy  and
 Spain  fell 12 percent to 8,534 terawatt-hours in 2012 from a
year earlier, London-based consultant  Prospex Research Ltd.  said
in a report to be published April 29. That’s 22 percent lower
than a peak of 10,925 terawatt-hours in 2010.  “A number of banks reduced their trading activity as part
of their retrenchment in difficult times for the financial
industry,” Prospex said. “This hit the market hard as banks
had become important players in European power trading.”  Banks from  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in  London  to Deutsche Bank in
 Frankfurt  have shrunk their energy trading or shuttered units
because of tighter regulation in Europe and the U.S. after the
financial crisis. Lower volatility made trading for hedging and
speculation less attractive for utilities as rising output of
renewable energy erased price spikes, Prospex said.  The amount of power bought and sold in Germany, Europe’s
biggest power market, fell 17 percent last year, or to 7.1 times
annual consumption. The so-called churn-rate was 5 in the Nordic
region and averaged 3.4 in the seven markets, according to
Prospex.  Short-Term Trade  Over-the-counter volumes slid 18 percent last year, the
biggest decline on record, to 5,825 terawatt-hours. That’s 68
percent of the region’s trading. Contracts bought and sold on
exchanges fell 6 percent to 1,542 terawatt-hours.  “I don’t see how this trend is going to be reversed,”
Konstantin Lenz, managing director at Lenz Energy in Berlin and
a power market analyst for more than 10 years, said by phone
from Berlin today. “Due to the expansion of intermittent
renewable energies, the market’s focus has moved to short-term
trading where smaller volumes are moved compared with trade in
quarterly or yearly contracts.”  Short-term contracts rose 14 percent to a record as the
share of renewables capacity connected to the grid rose, Prospex
said.  Germany ’s renewable power output rose 10 percent to 136.2
terawatt-hours last year, according to AG Energiebilanzen e.V.,
an association of German energy lobbies and economic research
institutes.  EON’s power trading volume slid 23 percent last year to
1,402 terawatt-hours, the Dusseldorf, Germany-based company said
March 13 in its earnings report.  “In early 2013 there have been some high volume periods
which suggest the year as a whole may be better than 2012,”
Prospex said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  