-- Ex-Diamondback Manager Should Get 6 1/2 Years, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-04-26T23:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/ex-diamondback-manager-should-get-up-to-78-months-u-s-says.html
Former Diamondback Capital
Management LLC fund manager  Todd Newman  deserves a prison term
of as long as 6 1/2 years for his role in a $72 million insider-
trading scheme, prosecutors said.  Newman, 48, was convicted by a federal jury in  Manhattan  in
December of one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud
and four counts of securities fraud for a scheme to trade on
 Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  using illicit tips provided by their
analysts. His sentencing is scheduled for May 2.  Prosecutors said Newman should get the recommended term of
63 months to 78 months under U.S. sentencing guidelines, arguing
he was an integral member of a group of as many as 10 portfolio
managers, analysts and insiders at technology companies who
swapped inside information.  “Newman was a central and active participant in a large-
scale conspiracy to exchange and trade on inside information
about multiple stocks,” assistant U.S. attorneys Antonia M. Apps, Richard C. Tarlowe and John T. Zach said in the filing.  Diamondback, which was raided by the FBI in November 2010
as part of the federal investigation of  insider trading  at  hedge
funds , is seeking a total of $39 million from Newman under the
federal Mandatory Victims Restitution Act, saying it’s a victim
of his crimes.  ‘Massive Wave’  The fund said after the raid that there was a “massive
wave” of investor redemption of about $1.3 billion and that it
lost at least $26 million, or the 2 percent management fees it
would have earned on those funds during the next year.  “These redemptions were a direct and foreseeable result of
the negative publicity faced by Diamondback due to Newman’s
actions,” Peter Neiman, a partner at Wilmer Hale LLP who is
representing the  Stamford , Connecticut-based fund, said in a
letter to prosecutors.  Diamondback avoided prosecution and agreed to pay
$9 million to settle a related suit brought by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission stemming from Newman’s case.
The fund announced it would close in December after clients
pulled money as a result of publicity from Newman’s case.  The restitution sought by Diamondback includes the $10.2
million in legal fees tied to the government’s criminal
investigation, the $2.5 million it paid Newman in compensation
and the $2.3 million spent to collect at least 2 million
documents the U.S. sought as part of the insider-trading probe.
The fund said it also spent more than $746,000 to pay for
lawyers for employees and witnesses as part of Newman’s case.  Management Fees  Prosecutors said that Diamondback hasn’t established that
it’s entitled to restitution for loss of its management fees.
Judge Richard Sullivan will have to make a final determination.  Like Diamondback, other firms have sought such restitution
from their former employees after insider-trading prosecutions.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. obtained a $6.2 million restitution
payment from former director  Rajat Gupta . Morgan Stanley won a
$10.2 million judgment for insider trading by ex-FrontPoint
Partners LLC fund manager Joseph F. “Chip” Skowron. Both
Skowron and Gupta were convicted at trial and are appealing
their cases and the restitution.  Newman’s lawyers have asked for an unspecified lesser term
for their client, arguing that he was at least four steps
removed from those who gathered the illegal tips. Newman
contends the two stocks at issue were among the hundreds of
securities he traded during this time period. Newman’s analyst,
Jesse Tortora, pleaded guilty and testified against him at the
trial.  John Nathanson, a lawyer for Newman, declined to comment on
the government’s memo.  Chiasson, Steinberg  Prosecutors said the evidence shows Newman knew that the
information was illicit and that other fund managers were
receiving the tips, including Level Global Investors LP co-
founder Anthony Chiasson and SAC Capital Partners LP’s Michael Steinberg.  Newman authorized the fund to pay one source, Sandy Goyal,
$175,000 to funnel nonpublic information he received from a Dell
insider and earned more than $4 million from his insider
trading, prosecutors said.  “The fraudulent scheme was far more extensive than simply
illicit trading in two stocks,” prosecutors said. “The
sophistication of the insider trading scheme in this case lay in
the fact that the portfolio managers could obtain the benefit of
having access to a network of company insiders without having to
communicate directly.”  Chiasson was convicted along with Newman in December, after
a trial in federal court in Manhattan. Steinberg was charged by
the U.S. last month with conspiracy and  securities fraud . He
pleaded not guilty to the charges.  Two Stocks  While Newman argued that he traded hundreds of stocks each
year and the government only proved at trial insider trading in
two just stocks, prosecutors said the evidence shows information
on at least a dozen stocks was funneled to Newman and others in
the scheme and that at least 10 people were part of the insider
trading.  Six of those charged in the case have pleaded guilty and
agreed to cooperate with the U.S.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 1:12-cr-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in  New York  at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  