-- Ex-Drexel’s Spurge Heads Firm to Back Women-Run Companies
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-04-26T22:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/ex-drexel-s-spurge-heads-firm-to-back-women-run-companies.html
Lorraine Spurge, a former executive
at  Michael Milken ’s junk-bond firm Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.,
will lead a venture backed by private-equity firm APCO Capital
LLC to invest as much as $200 million a year in companies that
are owned or run by women.  APCO , based in  Salt Lake City , started APCO Capital
Strategic Growth Alliance LLC to advise and invest in mid-sized
companies with female leadership, according to an e-mailed
statement today. The new venture will put about $30 million to
$40 million into each investment and is targeting about five
deals a year, Spurge said in a telephone interview.  “I felt there’s a real opportunity to put together capital
with great women business leaders, and it seemed like the timing
was perfect in light of all the discussion that’s out there,”
said Spurge, who runs investment firm Maple Stone Capital
Advisors LLC. “Sheryl Sandberg has really accelerated the
discussion. I’ve spent the last year and a half doing research
and I really think there’s a tremendous under-served population
of women-led businesses out there.”  Sandberg, the chief operating officer at  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,
ignited a discussion on women in leadership earlier this year
with her book “Lean In” (Knopf, 240 pages, $24.95), which
examines why their progress in gaining key positions has
stalled. Women own about 30 percent of U.S. companies, according
to APCO’s statement.  Potential Returns  The new firm is in talks on two potential deals and would
like to do at least six a year once the venture grows, according
to Spurge. She said she’s speaking with high-net-worth
investors, family offices, endowments and foundations to raise
money, and the firm may offer separate accounts or start raising
a dedicated fund by the end of the year.  “I’m not about accumulating assets,” she said. “I want
to do it right and do it well. My investors are going to be
looking for 15 to 20 percent returns and we want to make sure we
do everything to achieve that level.”  The firm will invest in companies with at least $5 million 
in free  cash flow  or at least $25 million in annual sales, 
Spurge said.  Spurge sold bonds at Drexel from 1983 to 1989 and was the
head of  capital markets , overseeing high-yield syndicate
trading. Drexel filed for  bankruptcy protection  in 1990 after
Milken was indicted for securities violations as part of the
biggest insider-trading scandal at the time.  Prior to starting Maple Stone Capital with her husband,
Spurge was a senior managing director at Guggenheim Partners
LLC, the asset manager that oversees more than $180 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  