-- Ex-FIFA Executive Warner Vows Parliament Return After Fraud Case
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s   a n d   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2013-04-26T14:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/ex-fifa-executive-warner-vows-parliament-return-after-fraud-case.html
Former FIFA Vice President Jack Warner rejected corruption charges stemming from his term as
president of CONCACAF, the soccer federation overseeing the
Caribbean and North and Central America, and said he’ll probably
seek a return to Trinidad & Tobago’s parliament.  “My hands are clean,” Warner said at a town hall meeting
last night in Charlieville, Trinidad, where he announced plans
to resign his parliament seat effective today. “I have said
that I would never use politics to enrich my wealth or fatten my
bank account. I tell you tonight that I have kept my word.”  A CONCACAF ethics committee accused Warner and American
Chuck Blazer, a former general secretary for the group, of
enriching themselves through their work. Having served on
soccer’s governing boards for three decades, Warner was said to
have registered a $22.5 million soccer center in his own name,
according to the April 19 ethics committee report.  Warner, who resigned as Trinidad’s security minister and
stepped down from his seat in the ruling People’s Partnership
Party on April 22, said he’ll likely seek to win back his
parliamentary position in an election that must take place
within 90 days. In the interim, he said he’ll start a weekly
publication, called Sunshine Newspaper, “to bring a new hope
into your lives.”  Bribery Charges  “Come July 24, 2013, who knows, with your love, your
support and your understanding, I shall be your MP again,” he
said.  Warner stepped down from CONCACAF in June 2011 following
accusations that he bribed members during presidential elections
at FIFA, soccer’s global governing body, charges he rejected.  “When I became president of CONCACAF I was given a table,
two chairs and $40,000 to work with,” Warner said. “When I
resigned from CONCACAF there was some $37 million in the bank,
three offices and unmeasured goodwill.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Williams in San Jose, Costa Rica at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  