-- Mexico Likely to Keep 4% Rate on Expectations Inflation to Slow
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-04-26T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/mexico-likely-to-keep-4-rate-on-expectations-inflation-to-slow.html
Mexico’s central bank will probably
keep borrowing costs at a record low after policy makers said
they expect inflation to start slowing back to their target
range following a brief surge.  Banco de Mexico  will keep the  overnight rate  at 4 percent
today, according to all 19 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.
Annual inflation quickened to 4.72 percent in the first half of
April, the fastest pace since September, after a frost drove up
farm prices. Policy makers target inflation of 3 percent, plus
or minus one percentage point.  The central bank, led by Governor Agustin Carstens, lowered
its key rate by half a percentage point March 8. The rate cut
ended Mexico’s status as the only Group of 20 nation to leave
borrowing costs unchanged and refrain from buying bonds to ease
monetary conditions since July 2009. The bank said the rate
reduction wasn’t the start of an easing cycle, and that it
expected inflation to rise in the short-term before reverting
toward its target of 3 percent.  “They told us that it was one and done, so there’s no
reason to expect they’re going to change their view, especially
since headline inflation is only worsening,”  Siobhan Morden ,
the head of  Latin America  fixed income at Jefferies Group Inc.
in  New York , said in a telephone interview.  The vote to lower the benchmark rate was the five-member
board’s first split decision since it began publishing minutes
from monetary policy meetings in February 2011. One board member
dissented, saying lower  interest rates  could threaten the
inflation target.  ‘Supply Shocks’  Speaking to the Mexican Senate on April 10 in Mexico City,
Carstens highlighted policy makers’ success in containing core
inflation, which excludes more volatile energy and agricultural
prices.  Core inflation  fell within the central bank’s target range
three months after Carstens became governor in January 2010 and
reached 2.88 percent in January, the lowest annual pace in at
least 30 years. At an event in  Acapulco  last night, Carstens
said that Mexico shouldn’t underestimate the problem of a
potential reversal in capital flows, which could affect
financial stability and economic activity.  Annual inflation probably peaked in April and will slow to
3.7 percent in December, and  core inflation  is likely to remain
near 3 percent in coming months, economists including Arturo Vieyra at Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit said in an April 24
research note. Banco de Mexico is unlikely to adjust rates, said
Marco Oviedo, an economist at Barclays Plc.  “In terms of monetary policy, we do not expect a reaction
from the central bank, as the source of the deviation from the
target is supply shocks, which are very difficult to control
with monetary policy,” Oviedo said in an April 24 note to
clients.  ‘Compatible’ View  The central bank’s board said in the  minutes  of its March 8
meeting that the rate reduction “is compatible with an
expansion of spending in the economy in keeping with its
potential growth and with a convergence of inflation on the 3
percent target.”  Mexico ’s economy has continued to show signs of slowing,
with  retail sales  surprising analysts in February by contracting
for the second time in three months. Mexico’s gross domestic
product will expand 3.5 percent this year, down from 3.9 percent
in 2012, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. U.S. GDP growth this year will ease to 2 percent
from 2.2 percent last year, according to a separate Bloomberg
survey.  Mexico’s peso has strengthened since the rate cut and has
gained 5.6 percent against the dollar this year, the most among
16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, extending last year’s
8.4 percent rally. The peso was little changed at 12.1677 per
dollar yesterday.  Rate Forecasts  Yields on government peso debt due 2024 have tumbled 85
basis points, or 0.85 percentage points, this year to a record
low 4.57 percent. Mexico’s local-currency notes have returned
16.1 percent in dollars this year, the world’s best performance
for  government bonds , according to data from Credit Suisse AG.  Mexican economists raised their estimates for year-end
inflation to 3.89 percent on April 22 from 3.85 percent two
weeks earlier, according to the median estimate in a survey by
Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit.  Banco de Mexico will keep the 4 percent rate unchanged
until January 2015, according to the median estimate in the
poll, and their next move is seen as a quarter-point increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  