-- Facebook Says Director Jim Breyer Won’t Seek Re-Election
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-04-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/facebook-says-director-jim-breyer-won-t-seek-re-election-in-june.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , operator of the
largest social-networking service, said  Accel Partners ’ James Breyer, an early investor in the company, won’t stand for re-
election to the board.  Breyer’s departure, disclosed in a filing yesterday, will
be the first by a director since Facebook’s initial public
offering in May. Accel Partners, a venture-capital firm based in
Palo Alto, California, was an early Facebook backer, and led a
$12.7 million investment in 2005.  Facebook has added two board members since the IPO,
including Susan Desmond-Hellmann, chancellor of the University
of California at San Francisco, in March, and  Sheryl Sandberg ,
chief operating officer, in June. Breyer said he’s stepping down
to focus on other responsibilities. Earlier this week, retailer
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. said Breyer won’t stand for re-election to
its board.  “After over eight years of board service, it’s time to
step aside in light of my other responsibilities, including my
recent election to the Harvard University Corporation Board,”
Breyer said in an e-mailed statement sent by Accel.  Breyer remains a director at  News Corp . and  Dell Inc. (DELL) 
Facebook didn’t say in the filing whether it would replace
Breyer, who will step down at the company’s annual meeting on
June 11.  Facebook, based in Menlo Park, California, has grown to
more than 1 billion users and has a market valuation of more
than $60 billion.  Prior to selling shares in the IPO, Accel owned 201.4
million shares valued at $7.65 billion, based on the offering
price of $38. Accel currently  holds  3.04 million shares, while
Breyer indivudally owns 9.17 million shares, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares in Facebook rose 2.7 percent to $26.85 at
yesterday’s close in New York, leaving the stock down 29 percent
since the IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  