-- FDA Gains Authority Over Drug Compounders in Senate Plan
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-04-26T15:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/fda-gains-authority-over-drug-compounders-in-senate-plan.html
Compounding pharmacies would have
to register with the  Food and Drug Administration  and list the
products they’ve made under legislation being considered by U.S.
senators in response to last year’s meningitis outbreak.  The draft legislation sets federal, uniform rules for drug
compounders while preserving the states’ role in traditional
pharmacy regulation,  Tom Harkin , the Iowa Democrat who leads the
Senate health committee, said in a statement today. The
proposal, which has yet to be formally submitted, would help
improve safety by making clear the oversight responsibilities of
state and federal authorities, the senator said.  The FDA has cited conflicting legal decisions on its
authority over compounders to deflect criticism that the agency
didn’t act quickly to close New England Compounding Pharmacy
Inc., the company at the center of the meningitis outbreak that
killed more than 50 people. FDA Commissioner Margaret A. Hamburg
has called for legislation to clarify the agency’s role.  “This legislation is a significant step forward in
protecting the public from unsafe compounded products,” Harkin
said in the statement. “By clarifying FDA authority over high-risk compounding practices, this bill will enhance protections
for patients taking compounded drugs and help prevent crises
like last year’s tragic meningitis outbreak.”  Compounding pharmacies traditionally prepare personalized
prescriptions and are regulated by state health authorities. The
meningitis outbreak revealed some companies go beyond that task
to produce larger amounts of medicines without or in advance of
a prescription, acting more like a drug manufacturer that would
be overseen by the FDA.  The draft legislative proposal distinguishes between
traditional compounders and compounding manufacturers. Other
senators that helped to craft the proposal include:  Lamar Alexander , a Tennessee Republican;  Pat Roberts , a Kansas
Republican, and  Al Franken , a Minnesota Democrat.  To contact the reporter on this story: Stephanie Armour in
Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  