-- Fenwick & West, MoFo, Dechert: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-04-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/fenwick-west-mofo-dechert-business-of-law.html
Technology and life sciences  law
firm  Fenwick & West LLP elected Richard L. Dickson as chairman
effective Jan. 1. He succeeds Gordon Davidson, who has held the
post for 18 years and will continue his corporate practice.  “Richard is an extraordinary and universally respected
leader in the firm, having spent the past 10 years in executive
management roles,” Davidson said in a statement.  Dickson is chairman of the firm’s corporate group and has
held leadership positions since heading Fenwick’s startup and
venture capital practice group in 2002. He has been a member of
Fenwick’s executive committee since 2008.  Dickson and Davidson have spent their entire careers at
Fenwick and worked together for 20 years, Dickson said.  “We’re coming off of three consecutive years of record
revenue,” Dickson said in a telephone interview. “Our mission
and our strategies will remain the same.”  Under Davidson, Fenwick has expanded to more than 325
attorneys from about 150 in the 1990s, while revenue has more
than doubled to exceed $260 million last year, the firm said.
Fenwick, at the request of its clients, also came up with new
fee arrangements and structures based on detailed data analysis.  “We know what it costs to do a deal. We know what it costs
us to do a patent trial,” Dickson said. “It enables us to
predict and work to a budget and work to a fixed fee.”  The transition to new leadership was prompted partly by
 term limits  implemented by the firm several years ago. Davidson
also said the demands of his practice-- including work on six
different public offerings in the last year -- played a role in
his return to focus full-time on his work.  “I’m not slowing down,” he said. “This frees me up to
work with clients and I’ll be here for a long time to support
Richard.”  One of the firm’s clients, which include technology
companies DropBox Inc. and Google Inc., expressed support for
the change.  “The smooth leadership transition is a sign of the firm’s
maturity and stability,”  Mark Chandler ,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ’s
general counsel, said in a statement. “We anticipate this can
only strengthen our ties.”  Moves  Private-Equity Lawyer Ellis Rejoins Morrison & Foerster  Morrison & Foerster LLP  said Marcia Ellis, a mergers and
acquisitions and private-equity lawyer, rejoined the firm as a
corporate partner in its Hong Kong office. She advises clients
on debt financing, private-equity transactions and complex
cross-border mergers and acquisitions.  Ellis left the firm in 2008 to become the chief legal
officer for  Asia  at D.E. Shaw & Co., where she assisted in
making, restructuring and exiting investments in Asia,
particularly China and  India , the firm said in a statement. She
also has represented funds in buying and selling of real estate,
investing in real estate developers and establishing real estate
joint ventures.  “Her experience in both inbound and outbound China deals,
in particular leveraged investments and buyouts, coupled with
her Chinese language skills, make her a rare talent,” Ven Tan,
managing partner of Morrison & Foerster’s Hong Kong office, said
in a statement about Ellis’s hire.  Morrison & Foerster has more than 1,000 lawyers at 16
offices in the U.S.,  Europe  and Asia.  Rimon Hires IP Transactional Attorney in Los Angeles, Washington  Holly Logue, a former  Capitol Hill  staffer most recently at
Logue PLLC, joined Rimon PC as a partner in its  Los Angeles  and
Washington offices.  Logue counsels companies on IP transactional issues and has
worked with biotechnology and medical device companies on their
intellectual property and patent prosecution strategy, patent
portfolio management and other transactional matters.  Following her work on Capitol Hill, Logue founded 17th
Street Legal PLLC.  Rimon was formed five years ago and has lawyers at 11
offices in the U.S and  Israel .  Video  Legal Consultant Zimmermann: Up to 20% of AmLaw 200 “Weakened”  A substantial percentage of the nation’s largest law firms
enter the sixth year of the Great Recession “badly weakened,”
and more firms are expected to fail, according to law firm
consultant Kent Zimmermann of the Zeughauser Group.  Their problems boil down to “too many attorneys for too
little work,” Zimmermann told Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia.
Zimmermann says firms should be concerned when average billable
hours fall below 1,600 for two consecutive years and when
realization rates -- the percent of bills the firm collects --
drop below 90 percent.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  News  ENRC Faces Formal Bribery Investigation by U.K Prosecutors  U.K. prosecutors opened a formal investigation into
allegations that  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC)  paid bribes to
win business in  Kazakhstan  and  Africa .  The Serious Fraud Office probe is focusing on “allegations
of fraud, bribery and corruption relating to the activities of
the company or its subsidiaries” in those regions,  David Jones ,
a spokesman for the SFO, said in an e-mail.  ENRC Chairman Mehmet Dalman resigned two days ago as the
mining company’s three founding shareholders and the Kazakh
government consider making an offer to buy the company, which
produces iron ore, copper and power. Dalman was replaced by
director Gerhard Ammann, former chief executive officer of
Deloitte & Touche LLP’s Swiss practice.  ENRC traces its roots to its founders’ participation in the
1990s privatizations of Kazakh state assets, which were
gradually combined into a single group of companies and listed
in  London  in 2007.  ENRC is “assisting and cooperating fully with the SFO”
and “is committed to a full and transparent investigation of
its procedures and conduct,” the company said in a statement.  ENRC’s assets include  iron ore , ferroalloy and power
production operations in Kazakhstan, copper and cobalt
businesses in Africa and a Brazilian iron ore project.  On April 11, the London-based company said it replaced
Dechert LLP, a U.S. law firm hired to investigate corruption
allegations. It has hired Fulcrum Chambers LLP to work with the
SFO.  After Dechert was replaced, the SFO sent the law firm a so-
called Section 2a notice seeking documents from its
investigation, a person familiar with the report said. Dechert
spokesman Will Salomone declined to comment on the SFO order or
the Dechert report.  Dechert’s report on the company’s business practices in
Kazakhstan, which the person said was handed to the SFO in July
last year, raised concerns over “potentially fraudulent”
payments totaling at least $100 million over four years,
according to a copy of the report.  In the report, Dechert also alleged that the company
granted a scholarship to the son of a local police chief in a
region of Kazakhstan to attend the  University of Michigan . The
arrangement, which included two payments totaling around $38,000
in 2010, was discovered in February 2011 by ENRC’s internal
audit, according to Dechert.  The Dechert report cited difficulties in conducting the
investigation. In it, the law firm alleged that some ENRC
employees were misleading Dechert’s staff, some contractors
refused to cooperate, documents had been forged and
investigators were given the wrong computer in one instance.  “An SFO investigation is currently being undertaken and
therefore ENRC is unable to comment on ongoing investigations,”
the company said in a statement in response to a request for
comment on the Dechert report.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  New York  at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  