-- Flaherty’s Budget Cuts Presses Carney Successor on Growth
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-04-26T14:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/flaherty-s-budget-cuts-presses-carney-successor-on-growth.html
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s
determination to balance  Canada ’s budget in two years increases
the likelihood the government will lean on  Mark Carney ’s
replacement at the head of the Bank of Canada to boost growth in
the nation’s economy.  Flaherty’s plan to eliminate the deficit in time for
elections in 2015 limits scope for further fiscal stimulus and
increases the responsibility for the country’s next central
banker to take the lead in responding to any economic slowdown.  “If you are going to be wedded to tighter fiscal policy,
then you are sort of left with the need for weaker monetary
policy” if the economy slows, said  Mark Chandler , head of
fixed-income strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto.  The additional pressure comes as the Bank of Canada has
been resisting joining Group of Seven peers such as the  Federal
Reserve  in taking extraordinary measures to stimulate demand,
even as the nation sees the  slowest six months  of growth since
the 2009 recession. Canada’s central bank has been the only one
in the Group of Seven signaling the potential for higher
borrowing costs, in part because of concern that easing monetary
policy would fuel household debt levels already at records.  Flaherty has said he would like to name a replacement in
April, before Carney, 48, departs June 1 to take over the  Bank
of England  a month later. Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem,
the most likely choice according to 10 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, said this week he’d accept the post if asked. The
second-most likely candidate is Export Development Canada Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Poloz, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a
March 19 report, while the Globe and Mail newspaper said this
week Stanford University finance professor  Darrell Duffie  is
also a candidate.  ‘Nothing New’  Dan Miles, a spokesman for Flaherty, said by e-mail there
is “nothing new to report” on the search process. Spokesman
 Jeremy Harrison  also said the Bank of Canada had no comment.  At 1.5 percent, Canada’s growth this year will be the
slowest among Group of 20 countries outside  Europe , according to
International Monetary Fund forecasts released April 16. The IMF
also said Canadian policy makers should be prepared to take
growth-supporting measures if the world’s 11th-largest economy
continues to weaken.  Those measures probably wouldn’t come from fiscal policy.
Flaherty, 63, has repeatedly said he plans to eliminate the
country’s C$25.9 billion ($25.4 billion) deficit in the fiscal
year that begins April 2015. Doing so would allow Prime Minister
 Stephen Harper ’s Conservative government to implement previously
promised tax cuts, which are contingent on the budget being
balanced, before elections scheduled that year.  Borrowing Costs  The Bank of Canada has also been clear that it’s not
currently planning to loosen policy. The bank reiterated last
week that higher borrowing costs “will likely be required” in
the future as a strengthening U.S. lifts Canada’s outlook,
bringing the country’s  inflation rate  to the 2 percent target
and the economy back to full output in 2015. Policy makers also
said their bias toward higher interest rates has helped cool a
housing market they say has shown signs of overheating.  Fiscal policy may be a more efficient way to fuel growth
than the “blunt” tool of monetary policy, because the
government wants to spur companies to invest while keeping
 consumer debt  in check, Chandler said.  “It seems to me the easiest way to unleash that may be
through fiscal policy” such as investment tax credits, Chandler
said.  Swap Rates  Investors aren’t betting on higher interest rates. Trading
in overnight index swaps shows no chance of tighter policy this
year. The  yield  on Canada’s benchmark 2 year bond was 0.94
percent at 10:11 a.m. in Toronto, below the central bank’s 1
percent target for the overnight rate.  Still, the bank’s insistence that its next move will be to
tighten policy has also probably prevented a depreciation of the
Canadian dollar that would fuel growth and help exporters by
lowering the cost of their goods abroad, said Andrew Spence, a
managing director at the Ontario Municipal Employees Retirement
System in Toronto.  Canada’s dollar has gained 28 percent from its lows during
the 2009 recession and is up 57 percent since 2002. Exports,
meanwhile, have yet to return to their pre-recession highs.  “I struggle to see where we are going to get sufficiently
above trend growth to absorb spare capacity to meet the
inflation target at this  interest rate  and at this setting of
the  exchange rate ,” Spence, who worked as a special adviser at
the bank in 2002 and 2003, said in a telephone interview.  Slower Growth  Slower growth before the 2015 elections could undermine
Harper’s message that he is a better manager of the nation’s
economy, said  Nik Nanos , president of Ottawa-based polling firm
Nanos Research, in a telephone interview.  “Harper’s electoral success has largely been built on a
brand related to economic stewardship,” Nanos said. “He hasn’t
necessarily won because of his charisma or personal popularity.
This will be crucial in the next election.”  One question the government may be asking the candidates is
how long they are willing to tolerate inflation away from the
central bank’s target, RBC’s Chandler said. Under Carney, the
bank has stressed the flexibility of its  monetary policy , which
gives it extra time to bring inflation to target if it sees the
need to counter an economic shock or deal with threats to
financial stability.  Inflation has hovered near the bottom of the bank’s 1
percent to 3 percent target range over much of the past year.  ‘Legitimate Question’  “It’s probably a legitimate question to ask of an incoming
governor: ‘How flexible will flexible inflation targeting be?,”
Chandler said. “You could stretch that to say, ‘Does that mean
in the current environment that we’re going to end up with
something easier?’.”  Because management of the economy is the government’s
strongest suit with voters, Flaherty and Harper will seek a
candidate with whom they will feel comfortable working, Nanos
said. “The last thing any government needs when the economy is
fragile is a disagreement between the governor of the  Bank of
Canada  and the government of the day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  