-- Flaherty Spokesman Says Nothing to Report on Central Bank
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-04-26T18:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/flaherty-spokesman-says-nothing-to-report-on-central-bank.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s spokesman said there are no new developments today in
the process of appointing a replacement for Bank of Canada
Governor Mark Carney.  “There is plenty of speculation out there but our office
has nothing new to report,” Dan Miles, a spokesman for
Flaherty, said in a telephone interview from Ottawa. Flaherty
didn’t address the question in Parliament today and he declined
to comment to  Bloomberg News  as he was leaving the legislature.  Flaherty said April 12 he may not meet his goal of naming a
replacement this month for Carney, 48, who leaves June 1 before
taking over the  Bank of England . Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem said April 23 he would accept the job and is the most
likely choice among economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Export Development Canada Chief Executive Officer Stephen Poloz
and Stanford University finance professor  Darrell Duffie  have
been named as possibilities by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and the
Globe and Mail newspaper.  “A clone of  Mark Carney  somewhere, when you read the
comments from Flaherty, it seems that’s what he wants,” said
Charles St-Arnaud, Canadian economist and foreign exchange
strategist at Nomura Securities International in New York who
has worked as an economist at both the country’s finance
department and  central bank . “Tiff would represent continuity
to what they have done at the bank.”  Policy Rate  Under the Bank of Canada Act, the governor must be a
Canadian citizen.  Macklem, 51, started at the central bank in 1984 and joined
its rate-setting panel in 2004 before being promoted to senior
deputy in July 2010. The bank’s key  interest rate  has been 1
percent since September 2010 in the longest pause since the
1950s. At a January lecture Macklem said the bank’s monetary
policy has been “effective” and keeping it unchanged has been
“the right thing to do.”  Poloz, 57, is chief executive officer of Export Development
Canada, a government trade financing agency. He joined EDC in
1999 as chief economist after three years with Bank Credit
Analyst Research in Montreal and 14 years at the Bank of Canada
in roles that included head of the research department.  Duffie, 58, is a finance professor at California’s  Stanford
University , and most of his research is related to securities
markets and the prices of assets such as derivatives. Duffie
earned a doctorate in engineering economic systems from Stanford
in 1984, a master’s degree in economic statistics from
Australia’s University of New England and a bachelor degree in
civil engineering from the University of  New Brunswick  in 1975.  Currency Negative  The last two governor appointments have bypassed the senior
deputy, with  David Dodge  moving from the finance department to
take the helm in 2001, and again in 2008 with Carney, a former
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. banker.  The announcement of an external candidate would probably be
negative for the Canadian dollar.  “An external candidate might be seen as a break with
current thinking and perhaps a different view on fundamental
prospects,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank, said by e-mail. “It may increase
speculation that the policy outlook might turn more neutral.”  The Canadian dollar gained 0.3 percent to 1.0169 per  U.S.
dollar  at 2:51 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys 98.34
U.S. cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  