-- Forint Heads for Second Week of Declines on Jobs: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-04-26T10:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/forint-heads-for-second-week-of-declines-on-jobs-budapest-mover.html
The forint headed for a second week
of declines on anticipation a higher-than-expected increase in
 Hungary ’s unemployment may lead to the central bank stepping up
efforts to stimulate the economy.  The jobless rate rose to 11.8 percent for January through
March, matching the level in the February-April period in 2010,
according to data from the statistics office in Budapest. The
median estimate of eight economists in a Bloomberg survey was
11.7 percent. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank reduced its benchmark rate
by 25 basis points to a record 4.75 percent on April 23, saying
weak demand exerted a “strong” pressure on prices, helping to
keep inflation below the 3 percent target.  “The worse-than-expected jobless data and the gloomy
 market sentiment  isn’t helping the forint,” Imre Kerekgyarto
and Karoly Bamli, Budapest-based traders at Commerzbank AG,
wrote in an e-mail today.  The forint weakened 0.4 percent to 301.64 against the euro
at 11:45 a.m. in Budapest, extending its loss in the past five
days to 1 percent. The currency is still up 0.9 percent in the
past month, the most among 31 major peers tracked by Bloomberg.  Further rate reductions are possible if the inflation
outlook and financial markets allow, the central bank said on
April 23. It has cut borrowing costs by a total of 225 basis
points since August to help Hungary emerge from recession.  Yields on the government’s benchmark 10-year forint bonds
rose for a third day, adding 13 basis points to 5.56 percent,
after hitting the lowest in eight years on April 23. The
additional yield investors demand to hold Hungary’s dollar-
denominated bonds rather than  U.S. Treasuries  was little changed
at 354 basis points, according to indexes compiled by JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  The cost of insuring against non-payment on Hungary’s debt
with credit-default swaps fell one basis point to 298 in a
fourth day of declines, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  