-- Froman Said to Be Front-Runner for Trade Representative
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-04-26T22:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/froman-said-to-be-front-runner-for-trade-representative.html
President Barack Obama is close to
choosing Mike Froman, currently the deputy national security
adviser for international economics, as U.S. Trade
Representative, according to two people familiar with the
matter.  Froman, a Harvard Law School classmate of Obama’s and
former executive at  Citigroup Inc. (C) , is in the final vetting
process for the position, according to the people, who asked not
to be identified in discussing personnel matters. He would
succeed  Ron Kirk , who left in March, as the president seeks
free-trade accords with Pacific nations and the European Union.  Obama is rounding out his economic team for his second
term. Froman’s nomination along with that of Chicago
businesswoman and Obama fundraiser  Penny Pritzker  as commerce
secretary may come as soon as next week, another person familiar
with the matter confirmed. The person asked not to be identified
because the deliberations are private.  The trade representative position carries the rank of
ambassador and is a member of the president’s cabinet. The
nominee is subject to Senate confirmation.  Amy Brundage , a White House spokeswoman, declined to
comment. Froman didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Trade Pacts  In his State of the Union speech Feb. 12, Obama announced
plans to pursue a free-trade agreement with the 27-nation EU
that would expand the world’s largest economic relationship.  “Trade that is fair and free across the Atlantic supports
millions of good-paying American jobs,” Obama said in the
address. The president has set a goal of doubling U.S. exports
by the end of 2014.  While the U.S. works to complete trade talks with the EU in
two years, administration officials are also negotiating the
Trans-Pacific Partnership with 11 nations, which is meant to
increase America’s role as a manufacturing center.  “USTR is the bridge between domestic economic priorities
and global economic connections and growth,” said Mickey Kantor, who served as trade representative and commerce
secretary in President  Bill Clinton ’s administration.  As the assistant to the president for international
economics and a longtime confidant, Froman has been by Obama’s
side at every international economic summit. Helping to wrap up
trade deals has been part of his White House portfolio.  Revived Negotiations  In December 2010, he revived negotiations on a free-trade
agreement with South Korea that was at risk of collapse over
disagreements on auto and agriculture imports.  Working with  Ford Motor Co. (F)  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally , United Auto Workers President  Bob King  and
congressional leaders, Froman worked out the details.  Those negotiations helped Obama win congressional support
in 2011 for the accord with South Korea, as well as separate
deals with Colombia and Panama. All three were originally
negotiated by President  George W. Bush ’s administration.  Froman holds a doctorate in international relations from
Oxford University and a law degree from Harvard University,
where he worked on the law review with Obama. In the Clinton
administration, he served as chief of staff to Treasury
Secretary  Robert Rubin .  For most of the Bush administration, Froman worked at
Citigroup, where he helped recruit  Jacob Lew , the current
Treasury secretary, to work at the bank.  The Wall Street Journal reported earlier that the
nominations of Pritzker and Froman may be made next week.  Commerce Job  Pritzker, whose family built the Chicago-based  Hyatt Hotels
Corp. (H)  chain, has been a longtime Obama ally and served as
finance chairman for his 2008 campaign. Her name was circulated
for the commerce job shortly after Obama was first elected that
year and she issued a statement saying she wasn’t interested in
the position.  Pritzker’s finances -- she has a net worth estimated at
$1.8 billion, according to Forbes magazine’s list of the 400
richest Americans -- have complicated the screening process.  Obama has yet to fill the posts of transportation secretary
and the head of the  Small Business Administration .  He is considering Charlotte, North Carolina, Mayor Anthony Foxx, a Democrat, to lead the Transportation Department, people
familiar with the matter have said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  