-- Geo Falls as Mexican Homebuilder Misses Interest Payment
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-04-26T19:27:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/geo-falls-as-mexican-homebuilder-misses-interest-payment.html
Corp. Geo SAB (GEOB) , Mexico’s second-
biggest homebuilder by revenue, plunged the most in 14 years
after the company said it would miss an interest payment and
that cash tumbled by 84 percent during the first quarter.  The shares fell 22 percent to 4.68 pesos at 2:05 p.m. in
Mexico City trading, the biggest drop on a closing basis since
September 1998. The company’s dollar-denominated bonds due in
2022 lost 9.09 cents to a record low of 45.13 cents on the
dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Geo said today in a filing that it will miss an interest
payment on bonds denominated in pesos. An earnings report
released late yesterday showed that the  Mexico  City-based
homebuilder’s cash and cash equivalents dropped by 84 percent to
371.4 million pesos as of March 31 from the end of 2012. The
company had negative free cash flow to equity of 1.7 billion
pesos during the quarter.  The missed bond payment “makes sense within this whole
process, but we weren’t expecting it,” Carlos Hermosillo, an
analyst with Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB, said in a telephone
interview from Mexico City. “We’re all waiting to see what
happens with the restructuring.”  Geo said on April 12 it hired Fians Capital to advise it on
a possible restructuring.  The company on a conference call didn’t allow questions
from analysts and investors, as it had in prior quarters.  The company’s finances have deteriorated this year along
with those of the country’s other largest publicly-traded
homebuilders as the government delayed payment of housing
subsidies and shifted policy to promote more capital-intensive
apartment construction in urban areas over single-family homes
in commuter towns. The Mexico Habita Index of six publicly-
traded builders is down 57 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  