-- Italian Bonds Decline as Lawmakers Struggle to Form Government
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-04-26T13:46:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/german-government-bonds-rise-before-italy-sells-six-month-bills.html
Italian 10-year bonds fell for a
third day as Prime Minister-designate Enrico Letta consults with
other political leaders as he struggles to form a new government
to end a political impasse.  The nation’s securities declined even as the country
auctioned 8 billion euros ($10.4 billion) of six-month bills at
a record-low yield. Benchmark German bunds extended a second
weekly gain as the Bundesbank criticized the  European Central
Bank ’s bond-buying program in an opinion for the nation’s
constitutional court. The ECB will lower its key interest  rate 
to 0.5 percent next month, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News  survey  of analysts.  “We have really had an extremely strong rally and it was
obvious there was going to be some profit taking,” said  Michael Markovich , head of global  interest-rate  research at Credit
Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “We have to see how the political
process in  Italy  will evolve. If the current prime minister
isn’t successful in forming a government we will need new
elections so some uncertainty remains. If the ECB don’t deliver
anything there will be negative price action in the periphery.”  Italy’s  10-year yield  rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 4.09 percent at 2:41 p.m. London time. The
rate dropped to 3.89 percent on April 23, the lowest since
October 2010. The 5.5 percent security due in November 2022 fell
0.28, or 2.80 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 111.33.  The nation’s two-year yield increased one basis point to
1.32 percent, up from 1.125 percent on April 23, the least since
Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1993.  Italian Auction  The Italian Treasury sold six-month bills at an average
yield of 0.503 percent, the  Bank of Italy  said. That’s down from
a rate of 0.83 percent at a previous auction of similar-maturity
debt on March 26.  Spain’s bonds erased an advance after Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  said he would seek two more years to tackle
 Europe ’s widest budget deficit.  The Cabinet today approved a plan to cut the shortfall of
10.6 percent of gross domestic product back within the European
Union limit of 3 percent by 2016 instead of 2014 as demanded by
the European Commission, according to an e-mailed statement.  Spain’s 10-year yield was little changed at 4.28 percent,
after earlier tumbling to 4.25 percent. It still headed for its
biggest weekly slide since the period ended March 2.  German Bunds  The rate on similar-maturity  German bunds  dropped three
basis points to 1.21 percent, extending  this week ’s decline to
four basis points.  Germany ’s top court has scheduled hearings for June 11 and
12 to look into cases challenging the nation’s participation in
the European Stability Mechanism and ECB policies. Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  last year announced a so-far unused plan
of unlimited bond purchases for countries that request a bailout
and commit to an overhaul of their economies.  “Our view is that this story is very important and can see
notable spread widening and flight to bunds,” wrote Michael Michaelides and  Harvinder Sian , rates strategists at  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , in an e-mailed note. “Just how far we
sell-off depends on news flow in the next couple of days; we
watch in particular for political comments from Germany but
words from Draghi should also be expected to soothe markets.”  The ECB published data showing how much money savers
withdrew from the euro region’s banks after a botched attempt to
tax Cypriot savers as part of a European Union-led bailout. Bank
deposits fell 3.9 percent in March, the data showed.  Volatility Gauge  Volatility on Finnish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by those of Germany and the Netherlands,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Norway’s sovereign wealth fund, the world’s largest,
reduced its holdings in Austrian, French and Japanese  government
bonds  in the first quarter.  Norway increased its investments in government bonds from
the U.S., the Netherlands and Germany in its $728 billion
Government Pension Fund Global, the Oslo-based investor said
today.  Government securities  made up 59.7 percent of the fund’s
fixed-income investments at the end of the quarter and were the
worst-performing fixed-income assets, returning 0.6 percent, it
said.  Italian securities gained 3.6 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bonds returned 0.9 percent, and Spanish debt earned 7.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  