-- Ghana Said to Boost Planned Dollar Debt Sale to $1 Billion
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-04-26T16:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/ghana-said-to-boost-planned-dollar-debt-sale-to-1-billion.html
Ghana , the first sub-Saharan
African country outside of South Africa to sell Eurobonds, plans
to seek at least $1 billion in a second offer this year,
according to two people with knowledge of the plans.  The West African nation is inviting bids for advisers on
the transaction, the people said, who asked not to be identified
because the information isn’t public yet.  Ghana sold its debut $750 million Eurobond in September
2007 at 8.5 percent. Finance Minister Seth Terkper said on Dec.
15 Ghana was planning to seek the same amount in the second sale
to replace existing debt. “We are getting advice on it,” he
said by phone from  Washington  today, declining to give details.  The government plans to use the money for infrastructure
projects, Albert Kofi Asamoa-Baah, financial sector adviser at
the ministry, said by phone today, declining to confirm the
amount.  “We expect the pricing on this one to be more competitive
than the first,” he said “The one on the market is doing well
so we expect the yield on this one to be lower.”  The yields on the debt that matures in October 2017 fell
for a third day, declining less than one basis point to 4.71
percent by 3:39 p.m. in the capital, Accra.  Ghana’s $35 billion economy is forecast by the Finance
Ministry to grow 8 percent this year, faster than the sub-
Saharan African average of 5.6 percent, according to the
International Monetary Fund. The country, which began producing
oil for export in December 2010, has a budget deficit forecast
to narrow to 9 percent of gross domestic product this year from
12.1 percent in 2012, according to the ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  