-- Google to Microsoft’s New Import May Be Cyber Standards
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-04-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/google-to-microsoft-s-new-import-may-be-cyber-standards.html
Efforts by  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Microsoft
Corp. and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  to be excluded from U.S. cybersecurity
rules may become moot under a European Commission proposal that
could force them to report attacks and make their products more
secure.  E-mail providers,  search engines , social networking
websites and companies specializing in electronic commerce would
have to comply with cybersecurity requirements to sell products
and services within the 27 countries of the European Union under
a directive proposed  Feb. 7 .  President  Barack Obama ’s administration exempted products
like Google’s Gmail,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone software and
Microsoft’s Windows operating system from a February executive
order aimed at improving cybersecurity in the U.S.  “Some EU member states may enact stricter standards than
what the EU as a whole requires,” said Sanford Reback, director
of global business for Bloomberg Government, which released a
study today on the topic.  “Some U.S. companies may decide to comply with the
strictest EU standard adopted rather than have the operational
headache of trying to fine-tune their cybersecurity measures for
different markets.”  Internet companies that successfully fought to be excluded
from Obama’s cybersecurity order aren’t giving in without a
fight in  Europe . The European directive is “very challenging,”
Paul Nicholas, a senior director for  Microsoft (MSFT) , said in a phone
interview.  Microsoft is lobbying European governments and plans to
convene a cybersecurity summit in June to discuss the issue, he
said.  Company Lobbying  “When you create these types of specific requirements
country by country it tends to discourage people from building
global products and services,” Nicholas said. “Over time, that
can erode innovation and it also limits economic opportunities.
It reduces the number of markets that you can participate in.”  The U.S. and European governments are advancing
cybersecurity policies to prevent electronic attacks from
disrupting banks, utilities, telecommunications networks and
financial services.  Internet companies lobbied the White House to carve out an
exception for them when developing the executive order. The
Internet Association, a trade group whose members include
Google, Facebook Inc. and Amazon urged the White House and
Congress to “ensure that all Internet services are not subject
to regulation,” the group’s president, Michael Beckerman, said
in an e-mailed statement.  Competing Approaches  The European Commission’s approach “seems overly
proscriptive,” said David LeDuc, senior director for public
policy at the Software & Information Industry Association in
Washington, which represents major companies like  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)   “These types of policies would be exactly what you would
implement if you were trying to stifle innovation,” LeDuc said
in a phone interview. “It makes tons of sense in theory but
it’s a lot harder than it actually sounds.”  The threat of cyberattacks has become a greater concern
than terrorism,  James Clapper , the top U.S. intelligence
official, told the House Intelligence Committee during an April
11 hearing. An April 23 hacking attack on the  Associated Press ’
Twitter Inc. account that erroneously said there were explosions
at the White House caused the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to
briefly lose $136 billion in market value before recovering.  Improving Security  Europe has had its share of cyber crime, too. The Czech
Republic’s central bank said its website was temporarily knocked
offline March 6, and the European Commission cited a report that
the London Stock Exchange experienced a serious cyber attack in
2010.  The European Commission proposal includes Internet
companies “because it is absurd to work to protect critical
Internet infrastructure without obliging such companies to take
responsibility for their wider role in this ecosystem,” the
commission said in a Feb. 7 statement.  Internet and technology companies would face security
requirements under the proposed directive because they provide
services and products vital to governments and the economy, and
are often targeted by hackers, the commission said.  LeDuc said companies believe the security standards will
constantly change, leading to uncertainty. “It takes quite
awhile to go through a process and identify what those standards
are,” he said.  Negotiations Continue  Google is watching the process in the European Commission
and hasn’t taken a formal position on its proposed directive, a
spokeswoman,  Samantha Smith , said in an e-mail. Calls to Amazon
weren’t returned. Steve Dowling, an Apple spokesman, declined to
comment.  The directive will be vetted by European governments in the
coming months,  James Lewis , technology program director at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington,
said in a phone interview.  “The chance for these things to fall off the rails is
always high,” Lewis said.  Debate over how to improve cybersecurity also continues in
the U.S. Telecommunication companies like  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ)  have questioned why the Obama administration didn’t include
information technology products and consumer information
services as critical U.S. infrastructure.  Obama’s order “is not about Netflix, Twitter, Facebook,
and Snapchat,” White House spokeswoman Caitlin Hayden said in
an e-mail at the time. It’s aimed at power grids,
telecommunications, pipelines and other vital infrastructure
whose incapacitation from a cyber attack would have national
security and economic implications, she said.  “If e-mail went away this afternoon, we would all come to
a stop,” said Marcus Sachs, vice president of national security
policy at Verizon, the second-largest U.S. phone company. “Hell
yeah, e-mail is critical.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in  Washington  at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  