-- Green Bay Quarterback Aaron Rodgers Signs NFL Contract Extension
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S i l l u p
-- 2013-04-27T04:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/green-bay-packers-quarterback-rodgers-signs-contract-extension.html
Green Bay Packers quarterback  Aaron Rodgers  signed a contract extension that ESPN said would give
the 2011  Super Bowl  Most Valuable Player the highest salary in
National Football League history.  While terms of the deal weren’t disclosed in a statement
from the team, ESPN quoted an unidentified person as saying it
was a five-year, $110 million extension that includes a $40
million salary in 2013.  Rodgers, 29, was the MVP of the Super Bowl after the 2010
season when the Packers beat the Pittsburgh Steelers for the
championship. He was the team’s first draft pick in 2005.  “I’m excited to know that my future is here, and I’ll be
here for a lot longer,” Rodgers told reporters yesterday
outside the Packers’ locker room.  ESPN said Rodgers’s salary would surpass the $120.6 million
for six years that the Baltimore Ravens gave quarterback  Joe Flacco  after he led his team to a Super Bowl win this February
against the  San Francisco 49ers .  The network said Rodgers’s deal will add five years in
addition to the two years Rodgers had remaining on his contract,
keeping the quarterback in Green Bay through the 2019 season.  The extension comes nine days after  Clay Matthews  signed a
contract extension with the Packers that the Milwaukee Journal
Sentinel said makes him the NFL’s highest-paid linebacker.  Details of the extension for Matthews, 26, the only player
in Green Bay history selected for the  Pro Bowl  in each of his
first four seasons in the league, were not released by the team.
The Journal Sentinel, quoting a person it did not identify, said
Matthews will receive $66 million over five years through the
2018 season.  Future Flexibility  “There’s an expectation that guys like myself and Clay are
going to continue to take advantage of the leadership
opportunities that we have,” Rodgers said yesterday. “This
seems to be the Packer way, where you draft a guy, you raise him
up in your system, and you pay him.”  Mark Murphy , president and chief executive officer of the
Packers, said the deals keep two key players in Green Bay
without hurting the team’s future flexibility.  “To be able to structure it in a way where we’re able to
pay them the market rate and still be able to compete
financially I think was key,” Murphy told reporters. “I think
(we) were able to do it in a way that’s good for both of those
players and the organization.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Sillup in  New York  at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  