-- Gun Control Advocates to Continue Push for Tougher Laws
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-04-26T18:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/gun-control-advocates-to-continue-push-for-tougher-laws.html
A U.S. senator is trying to revive
his proposal to expand background checks for gun  purchasers 
after the Senate defeated the measure earlier this month.  Democratic Senator  Joe Manchin  of West Virginia is seeking
to persuade a group of Democrats and Republicans who voted
against the measure to change their votes or accept revisions to
the amendment to win them over.  “Are there people who would be comfortable if there is a
change in a definition? Is there an area that needs to be
tightened up?” Manchin told reporters on April 23. He and
Republican Senator  Pat Toomey  of Pennsylvania had negotiated the
compromise plan.  The Senate defeated the plan for expanded gun background
checks April 17 on a 54-46 vote, with 60 needed. Five Democrats
joined Republicans in opposition. The vote scuttled a watered-
down version of President  Barack Obama ’s gun-control plan he
proposed after the December massacre of 20 children and six
school employees in Newtown, Connecticut.  A Democratic aide, who spoke on condition of anonymity,
said the fresh effort is focused on senators including
Republican Kelly Ayotte of  New Hampshire , the only Northeastern
senator to oppose the background check measure;  Mark Pryor , an
Arkansas Democrat; and  Mark Begich , a Democrat, and  Lisa Murkowski , a Republican, both of Alaska.  Manchin sent a letter today to senators who voted against
the bill, asking for changes he should consider to win their
future support.  “You don’t just not continue working,” he said.  Advocates want to gain enough support for a new vote before
legislation to rewrite immigration laws and raise the federal
debt ceiling dominate the congressional agenda in the next
several months, the aide said. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
probably won’t bring up the proposal until Democrats have the 60
votes needed to advance legislation, the aide said.  Internet Purchases  Federal law requires a background check to buy a gun from a
licensed dealer. The Manchin-Toomey amendment would require
background checks for gun purchases over the Internet and
between private parties at gun shows. Polls have shown 90
percent of the U.S. public supports expanding background checks.  Manchin said one possible change he is discussing with
senators is ensuring that people who sell guns to relatives are
exempted from background checks, even if the sale takes place
over the Internet.  The  National Rifle Association , the nation’s largest pro-
gun lobby, said the expanded background checks would lead to a
national gun registry. Federal law bars such a registry, and
licensed gun dealers have kept sales records since 1968.  Manchin and Toomey had sought to include their amendment in
a broader measure that also would increase funding for school
safety and set new penalties for gun trafficking.  Pressuring Senators  Manchin’s effort may depend on gun-control activists’
attempts to pressure senators who voted against the measure
through television and newspaper ads and protests at their
offices.  A group called the Progressive Change Campaign Committee
bought newspaper ads targeting Pryor, Begich and Senators Max Baucus of Montana and Heidi Heitkamp of  North Dakota , all
Democrats. It also plans television spots. In addition to
Ayotte, Republicans the group is targeting include  Dean Heller 
of Nevada and  Bob Corker  of Tennessee.  Senator  Mary Landrieu  of Louisiana said it may take time
before lawmakers are willing to vote for the broader
legislation. She is one of two Democrats from pro-gun states who
face re-election in 2014 and who voted for the Manchin-Toomey
amendment.  ‘Get Re-Elected’  “There are a lot of things that have to happen,” Landrieu
said. “People have to get re-elected.” Even so, she said she
doesn’t view her vote as a political liability.  “The majority of people in my state and around the country
genuinely believe that criminals and people that are mentally
unstable should not have easy access to guns,” said Landrieu.
“While it was a tough vote, it is a rational vote in my view
and mostly I’ve gotten mostly positive comments.”  Toomey’s approval rating has climbed in his home state
after working with Democrat Manchin on the background check
measure. An April 19-24  Quinnipiac University  poll released
today said Toomey’s approval rating was 48 percent, higher than
the 43 percent rating he received in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  