-- Gundlach Raises $2.3 Billion for New Closed-End Bond Fund
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-04-26T16:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/gundlach-raises-2-3-billion-for-new-closed-end-bond-fund.html
Jeffrey Gundlach , manager of the
top-performing DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund, raised $2.3
billion for a closed-end bond fund in an initial public offering
that ranks among the five biggest in the industry.  DoubleLine Income Solutions Fund, which started trading
today under the ticker symbol DSL, ranks fifth among all closed-
end funds, compared with the  Eaton Vance Tax-Managed Global
Diversified Equity Income Fund (EXG) , which raised $5.5 billion for
the No. 1 spot in 2007, according to Cecilia Gondor, chief
investment officer at Miami-based Thomas J. Herzfeld Advisors
Inc. The DoubleLine fund seeks high current income and will
invest at least 80 percent of net assets in debt securities
globally, according to a statement today from Los Angeles-based
DoubleLine.  DoubleLine Income Solutions Fund will be managed by
Gundlach, corporate-bond manager Bonnie Baha and Luz Padilla,
who oversees emerging-market debt. It intends to use leverage,
or the use of borrowed money to amplify returns, through reverse
repurchase agreements, loans or lines of credit from banks.
Leverage may represent about one third of the fund’s total
assets, according to the statement.  “The interesting thing about the DoubleLine fund is the
broad flexibility built into the investment strategy,” Gondor
said in a telephone interview. “That’s going to be key going
forward in a changing future market environment and gives them
an edge in having that flexibility to go where they feel the
opportunities are.”  Gundlach manages the $40.7 billion  DoubleLine Total Return
Bond Fund (DBLTX) , which has advanced 11.4 percent in the past three
years to beat 99 percent of peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Pimco Fund  In January, Pacific Investment Management Co. started a
closed-end bond fund called  Pimco Dynamic Credit Income Fund (PCI) ,
which had the third-highest amount of money raised in a closed-
end fund IPO with $3.3 billion, Gondor said. The fund offers a
dividend yield of 7.6 percent, according to Pimco’s website.  Closed-end funds sell a fixed amount of shares to raise
money for investments and then trade on an exchange like stocks.
They can trade at a price that’s higher or lower than the value
of their underlying holdings. Many closed-end funds use leverage
to boost payouts. Leverage allows the funds to take advantage of
low  interest rates  and borrow relatively cheaply while investing
at long-term rates that are higher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  