-- Ibovespa Falls as Fibria Sinks on Weaker-Than-Forecast U.S. GDP
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-04-26T21:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/ibovespa-falls-as-u-s-growth-dims-outlook-for-brazil-exporters.html
The Ibovespa fell, trimming a
weekly gain, as pulp maker  Fibria Celulose SA (FIBR3)  led commodities
producers lower after a report that showed slower-than-forecast
U.S. growth dimmed the outlook for Brazilian exports.  Vale SA, the world’s biggest iron-ore mining company,
contributed the most to the benchmark’s decline. Steelmaker
 Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA  dropped after profit
trailed analysts’ estimates.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes (OGXP3) ,
billionaire  Eike Batista ’s oil company, surged as investors
bought shares to cover short positions.  The Ibovespa dropped 1.3 percent to 54,252.04 at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo, paring a weekly gain to 0.6 percent.
Fifty-eight of the measure’s 69 stocks retreated today. The real
gained 0.1 percent to 1.9986 per dollar. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI index of 24 raw materials sank 0.5 percent after a report
showed U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 2.5 percent annual
rate, lower than the median analyst forecast of 3 percent.  “Investors have been very focused this week on numbers
that may help to adjust expectations about global growth in
2013,” Felipe Rocha, an analyst at brokerage Omar Camargo, said
by phone from Curitiba,  Brazil . “There are signs of a slowdown
all over the world, which means bad news for Brazilian
companies.”  The U.S. is Brazil’s second-biggest trading partner,
accounting for 13 percent of the Latin American country’s total
international commerce, according to data compiled by the
government.  Fibria, Usiminas  Fibria tumbled 6.6 percent to 21.02 reais. Vale fell 2.7
percent to 31.68 reais. Commodities producers account for about
38 percent of the Ibovespa’s weighting, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Usiminas, as Usinas Siderurgicas is also known, fell 5.3
percent to 10.06 reais. The company’s first-quarter adjusted net
loss more than doubled to 153.6 million reais from the same
period a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The average estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was
for a loss of 49.3 million reais.  Steelmaker Metalurgica Gerdau SA slumped 2.1 percent to
19.10 reais after  Grupo BTG Pactual (BBTG11)  cut its recommendation on
the stock to the equivalent of hold from buy.  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOL) , Brazil’s second-biggest
air carrier by market share, slumped 3.3 percent to 13.35 reais
after pricing shares near the bottom of expected range in the
initial public offering of its Smiles SA frequent-flier unit.
The company and its shareholders priced shares at 21.70 reais
each. The projected range was of 20.70 to 25.80 reais a share.  ‘A Bit Uncomfortable’  Banco do Brasil SA  fell 2.1 percent to 25.19 reais after
selling shares in its insurance unit  BB Seguridade Participacoes
SA (BBSE3)  at 17 reais apiece, within an expected range of 15 reais to
18 reais.  “The fact that shares were priced near the bottom of the
expected range is a bit uncomfortable, but we’ve got to keep in
mind that the parent companies’ shares had already risen a lot
and now they’re out of positive news to trigger additional
rallies,” Sandro Fernandes, a trader at brokerage Omar Camargo,
said by phone from  Belo Horizonte , Brazil.  OGX rose 8.9 percent to 1.83 reais. Short interest on the
oil producer’s shares reached a record 267.8 million shares
yesterday, which accounts for 21.3 of free float, data compiled
by Bloomberg  shows . Short positions for the company increased
five-fold in past 12 months.  Relative Value  The Ibovespa has retreated 14 percent from this year’s peak
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The MSCI BRIC Index of shares in Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and  China 
has lost 7.4 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge trades at 11.1 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.5 for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in  Sao Paulo  was 6.66 billion
reais today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with
a daily average of 7.67 billion reais this year, according to
data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  