-- Ibovespa Futures Fall as Commodities Drop Before U.S. Growth Dat
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-04-26T12:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/ibovespa-futures-fall-as-commodities-drop-before-u-s-growth-dat.html
Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  futures fell,
signaling the gauge may trim a weekly gain, as commodities
declined before a report on the pace of the recovery in the
U.S., Brazil’s second-biggest trading partner.  Lender  Banco do Brasil SA  may be active after selling
shares of  BB Seguridade Participacoes SA (BBSE3) , its insurance unit, in
the world’s biggest initial public offering this year. Air
carrier  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOL)  may move after raising
as much as 1.13 billion reais ($564 million) in an IPO of Smiles
SA, its frequent-flier subsidiary.  Ibovespa  futures contracts  expiring in June dropped 0.2
percent to 54,870 at 9:03 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real weakened
0.2 percent to 2.0043 per dollar. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
index of 24 raw materials retreated 0.4 percent.  The  U.S. economy  probably grew 3 percent in the first
quarter after expanding 0.4 percent in the final three months of
2012, economists in a Bloomberg survey said before a Commerce
Department report today. Imports and exports with the U.S.
account for 13 percent of Brazil’s total international commerce,
according to data compiled by the government.  The Ibovespa has retreated 13 percent from this year’s peak
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The MSCI BRIC Index of shares in Brazil, Russia,  India  and  China 
has lost 7 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11.2 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.5 for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in  Sao Paulo  was 7.32 billion
reais yesterday, compared with a daily average of 7.67 billion
reais this year, according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  