-- ICBC 1Q Profit Rises 12% on Fee Income, Beats Estimates
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-26T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/icbc-profit-grows-12-on-fee-income-beats-analyst-estimates-1-.html
China’s four largest  banks , among
the world’s 10 biggest by market value, defied a sluggish
economy to report record quarterly profits in the first three
months after boosting lending and fee-based services.  Combined net income at  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. , the world’s most profitable lender, and its three
closest domestic rivals rose 11 percent to 215 billion yuan ($35
billion), according to their earnings statements. Earnings
exceeded analysts’ estimates at all four Beijing-based banks.  The biggest lenders are taking advantage of their
nationwide branch networks and customer base and maintaining
pricing power for loans, even as the  economy  slowed below 8
percent for the longest streak in at least 20 years. Profit may
grow by less than 10 percent this year for the first time since
the lenders sold shares to the public in the last decade as
 China  deregulates interest rates and  defaults  rise, according to
analysts’ forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  “As long as loan growth remains at robust but not too
aggressive levels, the banks will have further earnings
upgrades,” said Sandy Mehta, chief executive officer of Value
Investment Principals Ltd., which doesn’t hold shares of
mainland banks. “Investor sentiment on the Chinese banks is
overly cautious.”  Shares of nine Hong Kong-listed Chinese banks have gained
an average 0.2 percent this year, outperforming a 0.5 percent
decline in the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  Lending Growth  China’s banks advanced 2.76 trillion yuan of  new loans  in
the first three months, 12 percent more than a year earlier, the
second highest level on record, government data show. ICBC
extended 461 billion  yuan  of new loans in the first quarter, 25
percent more than the same period a year ago.  ICBC, the world’s largest lender by market value, yesterday
reported a 12 percent increase in first-quarter earnings to 68.7
billion yuan, while China Construction Bank Corp., the second-
largest, posted a 16 percent increase. Net income rose a better-
than-expected 8.2 percent at both  Agricultural Bank of China
Ltd.  and Bank of China Ltd.  “Chinese banks this year will need to rely on expanding
the scale of lending to bolster income growth as there are
pressures on loan profitability,” said Wilson Li, a Shenzhen-
based analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Co. “Chinese banks are
in an economic cycle where bad loans are climbing. As long as
the increase is slow and gradual, that shouldn’t be a concern.”  ICBC’s non-performing loans rose to 80.2 billion yuan as of
March 31 from 74.6 billion yuan at the beginning of the year as
smaller borrowers struggled for repayment. Bad loans also rose
at Construction Bank and  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , according to their
statements. At Agricultural Bank, the balance decreased by 165
million yuan in the first quarter to 85.7 billion yuan, or 1.27
percent of total advances, according to yesterday’s statement.
All four are majority-owned by the government.  Solar Bankruptcy  Suntech Power Holdings Co. said March 20 it wouldn’t oppose
a bankruptcy petition filed by eight Chinese banks, including
ICBC, Bank of China and Agricultural Bank, against the solar
manufacturer’s main unit. The Wuxi-based company had more than
$2.2 billion of debt at the end of March 2012.  China’s economy grew 7.7 percent in the first quarter,
trailing the median forecast of 8 percent in a Bloomberg survey,
as gains in factory output and consumption weakened, jolting
stocks and commodities markets worldwide.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission last month told
banks to limit investments of client funds in credit assets that
aren’t publicly traded and to isolate the risks from their
operations. Wealth management products increased 56 percent to
7.1 trillion yuan last year, equivalent to 7.6 percent of total
deposits, according to official data.  Chinese banks rely on such products, which pay higher rates
than regulated deposit accounts, to retain savers as interest
rate deregulation accelerates and clients divert savings to
other types of investment.  Deposit Premium  The People’s Bank of China in June allowed banks to pay a
premium of as much as 10 percent over the central bank’s
benchmark rate on standard deposits. Unlike many of their
competitors, the five biggest state-owned lenders aren’t
offering the maximum rate allowed.  “Big banks with a strong deposit franchise and customer
base may fare better” than the rest of the industry this year.
said Tan Hui, a Beijing-based analyst at Founder Securities Co.  The net interest margin narrowed to 2.78 percent at
Agricultural Bank in the first quarter from 2.97 percent a year
earlier, while it widened at Bank of China and  Construction
Bank (939) , according to their statements.  The State Council said last month it will take further
steps this year to loosen state control over interest rates and
the yuan as new Premier Li Keqiang seeks to open up the economy
to sustain growth.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  