-- IGT Profit Tops Analysts’ Estimates as Social-Games Soar
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-04-26T04:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/igt-profit-tops-analysts-estimates-as-social-gaming-sales-soar.html
International Game Technology (IGT) , the
world’s largest slot-machine maker, posted a 26 percent increase
in second-quarter profit, exceeding analysts’ estimates as
orders picked up and social-gaming revenue grew.  Net income rose to $78.2 million, or 29 cents a share, from
$61.9 million, or 21 cents, a year earlier, the Las Vegas-based
company said yesterday in a statement. Excluding items, profit
of 36 cents beat the 30-cent average of 17 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  IGT benefited as Canadian casinos began replacing machines
after as much as seven years, Chief Financial Officer John Vandemore said in a telephone interview. Sales of replacement
slots in  North America  climbed 68 percent to 8,400, the company
said. New slots, such as a Dolly Parton game that lets players
choose songs while gambling, also boosted results, he said.  “We had some really excellent games hitting the floor,”
Vandemore said. “On interactive, we couldn’t ask for better
results.”  Sales increased 11 percent to $600 million in the quarter
ended March 31, the company said, exceeding analysts’ estimates
for $572.5 million.  IGT rose as much as 5.7 percent to $18.28 in extended
trading after results were announced. The stock gained 3.5
percent to $17.30 at the close yesterday in  New York  and has
advanced 22 percent this year,  compared  with an 11 percent rise
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index.  IGT’s interactive unit, which includes slot machine-style
games on Facebook.com, as well as real online wagering outside
the U.S., increased revenue 94 percent to $66.7 million.  Online Bets  The company has begun taking real online bets in Mexico and
 Canada , Chief Executive Officer Patti Hart said in an interview.
IGT is also talking to New Jersey casino operators about
offering its online betting technology there. Hart said she
doesn’t expect to offer online gambling in  Nevada  because
current law only permits poker, not IGT’s strength.  The company’s online wagering revenue, a subset of
interactive, fell 4.6 percent to $12.4 million after the company
quit some unprofitable markets in  Europe  in the past year.
Excluding those, revenue climbed 7 percent, Vandemore said.  IGT’s biggest business, sales of  slot machines , grew 16
percent to $279 million, the company said.  Revenue from gaming operations, where IGT operates networks
of machines at casinos, fell 4.4 percent to $254.3 million,
reflecting less play at machines in the U.S., Vandemore said.  The company fought a proxy battle earlier this year led by
New York money manager Jason Ader, who proposed three nominees
to the board. Daniel Silvers, who works for Ader Investment
Management, was the only one elected.  Hart said she had received e-mails congratulating her on
the company’s earnings yesterday, including some from people
critical during the proxy battle.  “People move to the side of the table where the winners
are in this world,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  