-- Tim Leiweke Named Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment CEO
-- B y   E r i c   L a m   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-04-26T19:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/tim-leiweke-hired-as-ceo-of-maple-leaf-sports-entertainment.html
Tim Leiweke  has been hired as
president and chief executive officer of Maple Leaf Sports &
Entertainment Ltd., the sports and real estate group that owns
the Toronto Maple Leafs of the National Hockey League and the
Raptors professional basketball club.  Leiweke was previously CEO of Anschutz Entertainment Group
Inc., a Los Angeles-based entertainment company that owns the
NHL’s Los Angeles Kings, Los Angeles Galaxy of MLS, and a stake
in the NBA’s Los Angeles Lakers.  “He’s a strong leader and leaders create something new,”
Richard Peddie, the previous chief executive officer of MLSE
until retiring in 2011, said in a phone interview today. “Looks
like MLSE is going back into growth mode. Tim has strong
connections to the NFL, and there’s still some interest in the
NFL for MLSE.”  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) , one of the co-owners of MLSE,
has hosted regular season games with the Buffalo Bills of the
 National Football League  at its Rogers Centre venue in Toronto
since 2008.  “Tim Leiweke is one of the top sports executives in the
world, renowned for his ability to build championship teams,
premier entertainment events, and innovative brand and marketing
opportunities,” Larry Tanenbaum, chairman of MLSE, said in a
statement. Leiweke starts June 30.  MLSE is owned by Rogers and  BCE Inc. (BCE) , Canada’s two largest
telecommunications companies. Rogers rose 0.3 percent to C$50
and Bell fell 0.5 percent to C$46.53 at 2:54 p.m. in Toronto.  MLSE, based in Toronto, also owns Toronto FC of  Major
League Soccer . Rogers separately owns the Toronto Blue Jays
Major League Baseball team.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  