-- Imran Khan Vows No Fear for Pakistan Vote as Violence Builds
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   D a v i d   M e r r i t t
-- 2013-04-26T03:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/imran-khan-vows-no-fear-for-pakistan-vote-as-violence-builds-1-.html
Watched over by armed elite police,
Imran Khan told thousands of flag-waving supporters in the town
of Okara in  Pakistan  that together they would end the rule of
parties that had pushed the nation to the brink of ruin.  Khan, a cricket idol who spent more than 15 years as a
political nobody before gaining appeal among young Pakistanis
fed up with slow growth and violence, finished his speech and
clambered down from the top of the converted truck he uses as a
campaign vehicle. Opinion polls ahead of the May 11 parliament
election that put his party behind rivals underestimate his
support, he said in an interview.  “Whenever there has been a movement, analysts have never
been able to predict it,” Khan, 60, said April 23 as his convoy
rumbled past harvested wheat fields in Punjab province,
accompanied by the sirens of security forces clearing the way.
If “there is an idea that catches fire, people vote across
family lines, ethnic lines.”  Pakistanis vote next month in elections that are being seen
as the most important in at least four decades. Whichever party
emerges victorious will face a raft of unprecedented security
and economic challenges: Two of the country’s four provinces
wracked with deadly Taliban and separatist insurgencies, a power
crunch that has crippled factories and deepening anger at the
incompetence of lawmakers.  Chronic Insecurity  Pakistan’s chronic insecurity is dictating the electoral
campaigns: Bilawal Bhutto Zardari, the son of Pakistan’s
President Asif Ali Zardari and assassinated ex-premier  Benazir Bhutto , cited threats to his life as he launched the  Pakistan
Peoples Party ’s bid for re-election this week in pre-recorded
video, and former Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif  is addressing
crowds from behind protective glass shields. Even so, Khan
greeted his fans in  Okara  by smashing an imaginary ball with a
cut-out cardboard cricket bat from the open top of his bus.  “I am the only one who is going out in public, they all
are behind bullet-proof screens,” Khan said, sitting in a
plastic chair and dressed in a traditional flowing white tunic
and trousers. Sharif “is too scared to die,” Khan said in
comments that reflect the grim nature of fighting elections in
Pakistan. “He’s made so much money and now he wants to enjoy
it.”  Amnesty International  asked Pakistani authorities in an
April 24 statement to investigate attacks on political
candidates that have killed at least 37 people and left 183
injured nationwide. At least six people were killed last night
in the second bombing this week to target an office of the
Muttahida Qaumi Movement, Karachi’s biggest party.  Intense Fight  Sharif’s Pakistan Muslim League faction was preferred by 37
percent in a Gallup analysis of two opinion polls last month.
That’s more than double the 16 percent garnered by the Peoples
Party and Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf.  Punjab , where the
fight between Khan and Sharif is most intense, sends more than
half of 272 directly elected lower-house lawmakers to parliament.  Khan, who led Pakistan to victory in the 1992 cricket world
cup, managed to win just a single seat, his own, in the last
election his party contested in 2002 as he struggled to
translate his sporting renown into poll success since founding
his party in 1996. His playboy image during his early cricket
career and a failed marriage to  Jemima Khan , the daughter of the
late financier James Goldsmith, impeded his political journey in
the Islamic nation of 196 million people.  Automatic Weapons  Protected by officers from the Punjab elite police force --
“No Fear” emblazoned across the back of their black T-shirts
as they brandished automatic weapons -- Khan said he supports
pulling back forces from the country’s war with the Pakistani
Taliban. He’d seek to rewrite relations with the U.S., which
targets Islamic militants in the region with missiles fired from
drone aircraft.  “We have to settle this war on terror” in Pakistan’s
northwestern tribal areas, he said. “If you don’t settle that
the country is gone anyway. This radicalization is growing more
and more terrorism because every collateral damage creates more
militants.”  Pakistan must “distance itself from the U.S. war by saying
no more drone attacks,” he said, adding that he was the only
Pakistani politician who had visited the seven tribal regions
along the Afghan border. “There are about 800,000 to 1 million
armed men in the tribal area. The number of militants is only
20,000 to 30,000. The moment the jihad narrative is taken away
from the militants, you empower your tribal people.”  Retired Pakistani General Talat Masood says Khan’s strategy
to deal with militants by disengaging from the U.S. war or
dealing with them through negotiations would not work.  ‘Highly Simplistic’  “It is highly simplistic to just think that everything
will be hunky-dory in Pakistan, once the Americans go away,”
Masood said in phone interview April 24. “Militants say they
don’t accept Pakistan’s constitution, they don’t accept
democracy; they want to impose their brand of Islam. These
demands are nothing to do with Pakistan’s association with
Americans.”  Wiping the sweat from his face as early summer temperatures
outside rose above 35 degrees Celsius (95 degrees Fahrenheit),
Khan said his party wasn’t interested in forming a coalition
government in which his party would be held to ransom by what he
called the feudal, corrupt politics of established parties
responsible for landing Pakistan in “a quagmire.”  “If you go for a coalition, you can’t do anything,” Khan
said. “So what’s the point of getting into power? Given the
situation in Pakistan, which is so volatile, you will only have
one chance. In the first 90 days, you have to make an impact.”  Corruption Crusader  Rashid Rehman, a Lahore-based political analyst, said Khan
is unlikely to join forces with either the PPP or PML-N. “In
terms of the position he has taken -- a crusader against
corruption, against mis-governance, his slogan of change -- his
stance of not making alliances makes sense,” Rehman said April
24, adding he doesn’t expect any party to secure a clear victory.  A social-media driven campaign -- Khan has over half a
million Twitter followers -- has found many supporters among the
Pakistani youth. Faiyaz Ahmed, a 26-year-old Khan supporter in
Okara, said the country needed Khan as he is “an honest leader
who can give us electricity, education and jobs,” his voice
almost drowned out by Punjabi pop music and chants in the local
Urdu language of “Let’s go, let’s go, we are with Imran.”  Galvanized Youth  Students interviewed at the prestigious  Lahore
University of Management Sciences  a three-hour drive north of
Okara echoed Ahmed.  “We are all for  Imran Khan ,” said Omar Malik, 20, a
student of law, standing in a group of six students on the
manicured lawns of the university campus, which is seen as
Pakistan’s version of Harvard. “He is the best choice we have
got to break this two-party monopoly. He has a solid plan to
move this country forward and he is clean. People trust him.”  Khan “has galvanized that idea that youth can bring about
a change,” Adil Najam, the university’s vice chancellor, said
in an interview on April 23. “There is a sense of empowerment
among the youth.” Whatever the result, the elections will be
“truly historic,” and the most significant since 1971, he said.  In order to deliver, Khan said, the corrupt have to be
removed from office and tax evasion curbed. For that, he needs a
parliamentary majority, free from interfering partners.  “If you try to expose corruption and cut off the loopholes
which people use to evade taxes, if you step in that direction,
they will pull the plug. We are the only party that has not been
tried. That’s why you see that groundswell, that’s why, God
willing, we will win. People are sick of them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
David Merritt in London at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  