-- Indian Investigator’s Coal Report Stirs Up Political Protests
-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k
-- 2013-04-26T09:27:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/indian-investigator-s-coal-report-stirs-up-political-protests.html
India ’s federal investigation
 agency  said today that government officials vetted its report on
alleged graft in the allocation of coal blocks, kicking off
opposition protests and demands for the resignation of Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh .  The  Central Bureau of Investigation , which is probing
allegations of corruption in the award of mining rights, told
the  Supreme Court  that the status of the investigation was
shared with the federal law minister and two officials of the
prime minister’s office and coal ministry. The CBI filed an
affidavit today in compliance with an order of the top court,
which is monitoring the probe.  The CBI’s disclosure is the latest in a string of
embarrassments Singh is facing after a cabinet colleague
resigned in 2010 to face trial for the 2008 sale of spectrum
that the nation’s auditor said was “arbitrary” and may have
cost the exchequer $31 billion. Singh was in charge of the coal
ministry for part of the period under the probe and has been
personally blamed by opposition parties for the irregularities.  The main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party  “stands by its
demand for the resignation of the most dishonest prime minister
since independence,” as he was using the law ministry to save
himself from the probe, Rajiv Pratap Rudy, a BJP leader told
reporters in New Delhi today. Parliament was adjourned for a
fourth day amid protests over the alleged interference.  Parliamentary Affairs Minister Kamal Nath ruled out the
resignation of Singh and law minister Ashwani Kumar. The BJP has
said the continuation of Kumar as the law minister has become
untenable because the government has unduly influenced the
agency’s report.  India’s Comptroller & Auditor General told lawmakers in
August that the government’s policy of allocating coal mines
without auction favored some private companies and may have cost
as much as 1.86 trillion rupees ($34 billion) in potential
revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  