-- Titanic Entrepreneur Palmer to Run for Australian Parliament
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-04-26T02:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/titanic-entrepreneur-palmer-to-run-for-australian-parliament.html
Clive Palmer , the Australian
entrepreneur planning to build a replica of the Titanic, will
set up a new political party and run for parliament, pledging to
boost employment as a strong currency curbs the economy.  The owner of mining company Mineralogy Pty is restarting
the United  Australia  Party, the precursor of the main
conservative Liberal Party, to contest 150 seats in the federal
election in September, he said today at a news conference
broadcast on Sky TV. Palmer said he’ll run in the Liberal-held
seat of  Fairfax  in the Sunshine Coast of Queensland state.  “I can offer better service to the community than anyone
else,” Palmer said. “I have no personal interest. I’ve made
enough money in my life. I’m not seeking any enrichment or
wealth for myself, I’m seeking it for Australian people.”  Palmer, 59, and mining billionaires  Gina Rinehart  and
 Andrew Forrest  drew criticism last year from Treasurer  Wayne Swan  for threatening the nation’s democratic process by using
their wealth to seek to shape policy. Palmer last year dropped
plans to contest Swan’s seat in the federal election.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , whose  Labor party  is trailing
 Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition in polls ahead of Sept.
14 elections, is trying to woo voters with pledges to increase
spending on education and disability payments.  ‘Serious People’  “As far as Julia Gillard and Tony Abbott go, there really
is no difference,” Palmer said today. “They are all controlled
by the same lobbyist consultancies.”  Australia’s dollar has averaged about $1 in the past three
years, the strongest performance since the early 1980s.  General
Motors Co. (GM) ’s Holden unit said this month it will cut about 500
jobs in Australia, citing the local dollar’s strength, and
currency devaluations in competing markets.  The nation’s unemployment rate climbed to 5.6 percent in
March from 5.4 percent the previous month, marking the highest
level since November 2009.  “I’m very confident the people of Australia are very savvy
and are going to vote for the people who are serious, who have
done the work, and can deliver stable, competent and trustworthy
government,” Abbott said today at a separate news conference
broadcast on Sky TV.  Palmer, who owns a nickel refinery and plans an $8 billion
gas project, said he wants to become prime minister.  Robert Menzies resigned after 28 months as prime minister
in 1941, having lost the support of his United Australia Party.
He went on to form the  Liberal party  from the remnants of the
UAP and spent 16 years as prime minister.  Titanic Plans  The original UAP was formed in 1931, gaining an absolute
majority in elections that year under Joseph Lyons, according to
 Oxford University Press ’s Oxford  Index  website.  Palmer has an agreement with Nanjing-based CSC Jinling
Shipyard to build a 21st-century replica of the Titanic. CSC
Jinling is also building four 64,000 deadweight tonne bulk
carriers for the Australian entrepreneur, whose investments also
include golf courses, hotels, a soccer team and a horse stud.  The Titanic II, scheduled to sail from England to New York
on its maiden voyage by the end of 2016, will likely cost at
least $500 million,  Greg Johnson , an analyst with Shore Capital
Group in London, said last year. The original RMS Titanic, whose
popularity was underscored by the 1997 James Cameron movie that
won 11 Academy Awards, sank on its maiden voyage in 1912 after
colliding with an iceberg. The sinking caused the deaths of
1,502 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  