-- Liverpool’s Suarez Accepts 10-Match Ban for Biting Ivanovic
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-26T14:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/liverpool-s-luis-suarez-accepts-10-match-ban-for-biting-opponent.html
Liverpool striker  Luis Suarez 
accepted a 10-match ban for biting Chelsea’s Branislav Ivanovic
in a game,  England ’s Football Association said on its website.  Suarez received the suspension two days ago after biting
Ivanovic on the arm during a 2-2 draw between the teams last
weekend at Anfield. An independent regulatory commission upheld
the F.A.’s claim that the normal three-game suspension was
insufficient and a further seven were added, with Suarez having
until today to file an appeal of the extra matches.  “Liverpool forward Luis Suarez has not appealed the
suspension issued to him by an independent regulatory commission
this week,” English soccer’s  ruling body said . “The suspension
begins with immediate effect and applies to Liverpool F.C.’s
next 10 domestic first-team fixtures.”  Suarez, who will miss the final four games of this Premier
League season and Liverpool’s first six games in league or cup
play next season, said today he was sorry for the incident and
also repeated an earlier apology to Ivanovic.  “I acknowledge that my actions were not acceptable on the
football pitch so I do not want to give the wrong impression to
people by making an appeal,” he said in a statement posted on
his  Twitter  account.  Liverpool, which fined Suarez an undisclosed amount over
the incident, said it supported the player’s decision today.
Manager Brendan Rodgers yesterday questioned the panel’s
decision, saying it was prejudiced and bowed to the F.A.’s
original ruling.  Differing Standards  “We are all disappointed at the severity of the punishment
and in particular the differing standards that have been applied
across various previous incidents,” Liverpool Managing Director
 Ian Ayre  said in today’s statement on the club’s website. “Luis
is an important member of our team and nothing has changed in
that regard. We are committed to helping him improve his conduct
and he will be given our full support.”  Suarez, the Premier League’s second-leading scorer with 23
goals, was suspended seven games for biting an opponent while
playing in the Netherlands and the controversy has cast doubt on
the 26-year-old’s future in English soccer.  Suarez has been Liverpool’s standout player since joining
from Amsterdam club Ajax in January 2011, though he’s faced
criticism and punishment for his actions on the field. He served
an eight-game suspension last season after being found to have
racially abused Manchester United defender  Patrice Evra .  “I really want to learn from what has happened in the last
2 1/2 years, many things have been said and written about me,”
he said. “I just tried to do my best on the field. I hope to
come back early to play.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  