-- Ivy League Gets NFL’s Eye as Princeton Aims to End Draft Drought
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-04-26T04:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/ivy-league-gets-nfl-s-eye-as-princeton-aims-to-end-draft-drought.html
Most  Ivy League  psychology majors
move on to a suit and tie after graduation. Mike Catapano’s
attire after he leaves  Princeton University  includes a helmet
and shoulder pads.  The 6-foot-4, 270-pound defensive end is seen becoming the
first Tigers player taken in the National Football League draft
in 12 years, dating back to offensive lineman Dennis Norman’s
selection by the  Seattle Seahawks  in the seventh round of the
2001 draft.  If Catapano makes it, he’ll be among a small group of Ivy
Leaguers in the NFL -- six players from the conference appeared
in an NFL game last season. Five, including Catapano and Harvard
fullback  Kyle Juszczyk , are projected to be selected today or
tomorrow in rounds two through seven in the  NFL Draft . Only
seven have been taken since 2004.  “No question it’s a good year for the Ivy League,” said
Ross Tucker, a former Princeton and NFL offensive lineman who
provides analysis of Ivy League football games for the NBC
Sports Network.  Catapano is ranked as the 18th-best defensive end in the
draft and projected as a sixth or seventh-round draft pick,
according to the CBSSports.com  draft prospectus . The Minnesota
Vikings worked him out as a linebacker during a private workout
in March, said  Gil Brandt , former Dallas Cowboys vice president
of player personnel and now a senior analyst for NFL.com.  ‘Real Athlete’  “He’s a great player; a real athlete with very good
speed,” said Brandt. “He’ll get drafted. Teams are trying to
figure out if he can play with his hand on the ground and also
in space.”  Catapano , 22, a third-team All-American, won the 2012
Bushnell Cup as the Ivy League defensive player of the year last
season after leading the league with 12 quarterback sacks and
ranking second with 15.5 tackles for a loss.  Scouts from 12 NFL teams attended a private workout at
Princeton this spring, where Catapano’s 4.75-second 40-yard dash
and 37.5-inch vertical jump compared favorably with players
projected higher in the draft, Brandt said.  The Ivy League hasn’t had a player selected in the top
three rounds of the NFL draft in more than a decade, though
Brown University linebacker Zak DeOssie was taken in the fourth
round of the 2007 draft by the Giants.  Harvard’s Juszczyk, rated the top fullback by  CBS Sports ,
might go as high as the third round, according to the network.
At 6-foot-3, 245 pounds, he caught 52 passes last season for 706
yards and eight touchdowns. Some scouts say he could play tight
end. The others who may be drafted, according to NFL
DraftZone.com are Cornell University guard  J.C. Tretter ; Cornell
receiver  Luke Tasker , the son of former seven-time Pro Bowl
special teams player Steve Tasker of the  Buffalo Bills , and
 University of Pennsylvania  defensive lineman  Brandon Copeland .  No Scholarships  The eight Ivy League schools play in college football’s
second level. No athletic scholarships are given and they don’t
participate in the national championship tournament.  Tucker said Ivy Leaguers are getting more respect in the
NFL thanks to players including former Baltimore Ravens center
Matt Birk, a Harvard graduate who retired after his team won the
 Super Bowl ; Cleveland Browns defensive lineman Desmond Bryant
(Harvard),  New York Giants  guard Kevin Boothe (Cornell) and
Tennessee Titans quarterback Ryan Fitzpatrick (Harvard).  “There are enough Ivy League guys who have proven they can
start in the NFL that it’s given more credence to the league as
a whole and they are starting to get more looks from the
scouts,” Tucker said in an interview.  NFL Invitations  Much of Catapano’s size came in the past two years. The
former high school fullback weighed 210 when he started at
Princeton.  “I’m really excited to see what is going to happen,”
Catapano said in an interview. “I sleep well at night knowing
that I work hard every day, and I’ve tried to make the most of
every opportunity to this point.”  Several teams invited the native of Bayville,  New York , to
private workouts at their team facilities to give their coaches
a better look. They include the  Minnesota Vikings ,  New York Jets ,
New York Giants,  New Orleans Saints ,  Green Bay Packers  and
 Cincinnati Bengals , according to Catapano.  Princeton coach  Bob Surace , a former All-Ivy center for the
Tigers, spent eight seasons as an assistant with the Cincinnati
Bengals and said Catapano has the talent and intelligence to
make it in the NFL.  “Relentless, unbelievable motor, extremely physical and
tough,” Surace said in an interview on the Princeton campus.
“He’s a low-maintenance guy who understands the game. He could
be a guy who makes it and sticks.”  Catapano had plans for law school until NFL scouts started
arriving at Princeton last season, changing his primary goal to
playing in the NFL. If that doesn’t work out, he said, he’ll
pursue a coaching job at the high school or college level.  Asked if he’s nervous about the draft and the pressures of
making it in the NFL, Catapano was emphatic.  “I don’t think nervous,” he said. “Confident, prepared
and excited is more the word.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  