-- J.C. Penney’s Johnson Cleanup Includes Unpaid Contractors
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-04-26T20:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/j-c-penney-s-johnson-cleanup-includes-unpaid-contractors.html
Myron Ullman has another item on
his to-do list as he tries to revive J.C. Penney Co.: dealing
with litigation alleging the department-store chain didn’t pay
for store upgrades ordered by predecessor  Ron Johnson .  EMJ Corp., a general contractor based in Chattanooga,
Tennessee, has filed liens totaling $2.3 million and lawsuits
against the retailer in three states, saying it refused to pay
for work completed in September. R&R Packaging Inc. of Gravette,
 Arkansas , has a pending action claiming it’s owed $4 million for
installing wireless Internet networks in J.C. Penney stores
across the country last year.  The lawsuits and liens may add to the challenges facing
Ullman as he seeks to return J.C. Penney to profitability after
the chain lost $985 million last year. The opening of some of
its renovated home departments will be delayed and a media event
to unveil them will be pushed back three weeks to June 6, the
company said today.  Since Ullman replaced Johnson as chief executive officer on
April 8 he has shaken up the real estate and construction
division. At least four senior executives, including three who
worked with Johnson when he was running Apple Inc.’s retail
operations, have left.  Building brand-focused shops in about 680 J.C. Penney
stores was at the heart of Johnson’s strategy when he joined the
department store chain in November 2011. Johnson also agreed to
sell Martha Stewart-branded home goods, which prompted  Macy’s
Inc. (M)  to sue both  Martha Stewart  Living Omnimedia Inc. and J.C.
Penney, alleging sales of Stewart-branded products violates an
exclusivity deal between Martha Stewart and Macy’s.  Caused Delays  The R&R complaint, filed Sept. 21 in federal court in
Fayetteville, Arkansas, describes a company struggling to meet
deadlines on the store remodels. R&R representatives often
showed up at scheduled times to perform work at a store, and
J.C. Penney wasn’t ready, which in turn caused delays and pushed
up costs, according to the complaint.  “This was evidence of their inability to execute an
aggressive plan that was pushed down under this Ron Johnson re-
branding,” John Scott, a lawyer for R&R, said in an interview.
“They have no defense for not paying for legitimate charges.”  Daphne Avila, a spokeswoman for Plano, Texas-based J.C.
Penney, declined to comment on the litigation in an e-mail.  Penney Counterclaim  J.C. Penney filed a counterclaim on April 4 in the lawsuit,
alleging that R&R breached the contract by failing to finish
work on time. R&R informed the retailer before the deadline that
it was unable to complete the work, forcing J.C. Penney to pay
other contractors. J.C. Penney is asking R&R to reimburse it
$736,642 for that work and $1.3 million for materials.  John Scott, a lawyer for R&R, didn’t immediately respond to
e-mail and phone messages seeking comment on the J.C. Penney
counterclaim.  In a complaint filed by EMJ on April 4 in Chancery Court of
Shelby County,  Tennessee , a picture emerges of the costs
associated with implementing Johnson’s plan. Renovating sections
dedicated to the Izod and Liz Claiborne brands cost an average
of about $92,000 at two stores in Tennessee, according to the
complaint.  $63 Million  That means work for those two brands at 680 stores could
cost about $63 million. Johnson’s original vision was to cut the
brands sold in J.C. Penney to 100 from 400 and give each its own
distinct, renovated space.  “We are parties to several actions pending against J.C.
Penney for non-payment,” Jay Jolley, CEO of closely held EMJ,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Those amounts we are alleging
due include payments we owe to subcontractors and suppliers for
the jobs. We’re continuing to work with J.C. Penney in hopes
that this can be amicably resolved.”  After the retailer’s  balance sheet  deteriorated during
Johnson’s 17-month tenure, Ullman drew $850 million from the
company’s credit facility, J.C. Penney said in a Feb. 15
statement. He’s also seeking to raise an additional $1 billion
with the help of financial advisers, people familiar with the
situation said earlier this month.  Several of Johnson’s hires have left the company since he
stepped down, including Chief Operating Officer Michael Kramer.
The upheaval spread to the construction department this week.
Ben Fay, executive vice president of real estate, store design
and development, has departed after joining J.C. Penney a year
ago from a similar role at Apple. Michael Koch, vice president
of construction, Robert Laughrea and Todd York, directors in the
same unit, are also gone.  Michael Graves  To help right the ship, Ullman brought back Tom Clerkin, a
former senior vice president of property development, to advise
on the renovations. J.C. Penney still needs to finish the home
sections Johnson designed for 500 stores. Scheduled to start
opening in the next month, they’ll have areas dedicated to such
brands as  Michael Graves  and account for about 15 percent of
selling square footage.  J.C. Penney rose 12 percent to $17 at the close in  New York 
after billionaire  George Soros  disclosed a stake in the company
that made him its fourth-largest shareholder and CNBC reported
the department-store chain had a $1.75 billion loan commitment
from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The shares had declined 23 percent
this year through yesterday compared with an 11 percent gain for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The cases are R&R Packaging Inc. v. J.C. Penney Co. 12-
cv-05215, U.S. District Court, Western District of Arkansas
(Fayetteville); EMJ Corp. v. J.C. Penney Properties Inc.,
Chancery Court of Shelby County, Tennessee; EMJ Corp. v. J.C.
Properties Inc., 13-18868, District Court of Harris County,
 Texas ; EMJ Corp. v J.C. Penney Properties Inc., 13-00101,
Circuit Court of DeSoto County,  Mississippi .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  