-- Japan Regulator Said to Probe U.S. Firm MRI on Missing Assets
-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2013-04-26T04:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/japan-regulator-said-to-probe-u-s-firm-mri-on-missing-assets.html
Japan ’s financial watchdog is
investigating U.S. asset-management company MRI International
Inc. on suspicion that it lost clients’ money, a person with
knowledge of the matter said.  The Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission plans
to unveil the result of the probe as early as today, said the
person, who asked not to be named before the announcement. The
Financial Services Agency may order Las Vegas-based MRI to
suspend operations in Japan, the Nikkei newspaper reported
earlier, without citing anyone. Hiroshi Okada, a Tokyo-based
spokesman for the agency, declined to comment.  The probe comes a year after Japan’s financial watchdog
conducted the biggest investigation of the country’s assets
managers amid allegations of fraud at AIJ Investment Advisors
Co. AIJ, a Tokyo-based investment company, was found to have
concealed losing more than 100 billion yen ($1 billion) of
clients’ money.  Calls to MRI’s Tokyo office were transferred to an
answering machine saying it will “deliver letters to clients in
due course.” The office had a notice posted on its entrance
saying business is closed today. Nobody answered the door this
morning.  Regulators haven’t been able to confirm the amount of
potential client losses, the person said. As much as 130 billion
yen may be missing, the Nikkei reported.  MRI, founded in 1998, sells investment products that are
related to the rights to collect medical service fees, according
to its website. The  products  offer an annual return of as high
as 8.5 percent, according to its Japanese website.  The SESC, the investigative arm of the FSA, suspects the
company may have falsified performance reports, the Nikkei
reported. MRI has collected 136.5 billion yen of assets from
about 8,700 retail investors in Japan, according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  