-- Japan Tobacco Forecast Record Net as Sales Rise; Shares Jump
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-04-26T09:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/japan-tobacco-forecast-record-net-as-sales-rise-shares-jump-3-.html
Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914) , the world’s
best-performing cigarette maker this year, raised its projected
annual dividend by 35 percent after forecasting record profit on
increasing overseas sales and a weaker yen. The shares climbed
to a record.  Net income  will probably be 415 billion yen ($4.2 billion)
for the year ending March 2014, company said in a statement
yesterday. The company jumped 2.7 percent to 3,595 yen, the
highest since listing in 1994, in Tokyo trading.  Japan Tobacco, which said it aims to make its Mevius the
No. 1 global premium brand, is benefiting as a weaker yen boosts
the value of  overseas revenue , which accounted for about 48
percent of the company’s total in the last fiscal year. Asia’s
biggest listed cigarette maker also said it would raise its
payout ratio to 50 percent by fiscal 2015, one year earlier than
previously planned, to support shareholders.  “We increased share in almost all major overseas market in
the January to March period,” President Mitsuomi Koizumi told
reporters yesterday in  Tokyo . “We also expect to increase
domestic share for the Mevius brand.”  The company’s annual profit forecast is higher than the 412
billion yen average of 18 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  A weaker Japanese currency will probably add about 70
billion yen to Japan Tobacco’s operating profit this year,
Koizumi said yesterday. The yen has declined about 20 percent
against the dollar in the past six months on Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s vow to boost monetary and economic stimulus.  Dividend Increase  The company said it expects to pay dividends of 92 yen a
share this fiscal year, compared with 68 yen in the previous 12
months. The company has gained 43 percent this year in Tokyo
trading, the best performance among the 16 members of the
Bloomberg GL Tobacco PB Index.  Net income fell 10 percent to 79.9 billion yen in the three
months ended March in the absence of a one-time benefit a year
earlier, the company said yesterday. Sales rose 5 percent to
511.8 billion yen in the period.  Japan ’s government, which had owned 50 percent of the
company, cut its stake to 33 percent in March to raise funds for
reconstruction from the March 11, 2011 earthquake and tsunami.
The cigarette maker bought back some of the stock and yesterday
said it would not cancel the treasury shares.  Japan Tobacco also said its board opposed all four
proposals made by The Children’s Investment Master Fund, which
called for an increase in dividends and share buybacks.  Shareholder Return  “The significantly high amount of the proposed return far
exceeds the amount of cash flow generated by the business and
would require the company to make additional financial borrowing
from a third party,” the company said in a statement yesterday.  The Children’s Fund has said the cigarette maker should
match the higher payout levels made by global rivals. The fund
made similar proposals last year that were also rejected.  Sales will probably jump about 12 percent this fiscal year
to 2.37 trillion yen, according to the statement. The sales
growth would be the fastest since 2008.  Cigarette sales in Russia and  Turkey  rose last year,
driving up overseas sales 5.4 percent, the company said earlier
this year. Domestic revenue jumped 7.2 percent in the year ended
March as the company regained its market share, the company said
April 12.  Japan Tobacco changed its top brand’s name to Mevius from
Mild Seven in February and reiterated yesterday that it expects
it to become the world’s best-selling premium brand, without
giving a timeframe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  