-- Japan-China Defense Officials to Meet Amid Island Tensions
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-04-26T10:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/japan-china-defense-officials-to-meet-as-island-tensions-flare.html
Defense officials from  Japan  and
 China  will meet today in Beijing, signaling  Asia ’s two biggest
economies are trying to soothe rising tensions over East China
Sea islands claimed by both.  The officials are scheduled to meet this evening, Japanese
Defense Minister Itsunori Onodera told reporters in Tokyo. The
two sides will discuss ways to improve contacts over territorial
issues and exchange opinions on “the maritime communication
mechanism,” he said.  “We particularly want to exchange opinions at a working
level on the marine communication mechanism and the regional
situation,” Onodera said.  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe vowed this week to
protect the islands by force if necessary as marine patrols from
both sides circled each other. Visits by lawmakers to a  Tokyo 
shrine viewed as a symbol of wartime aggression have compounded
the strain, further threatening ties that may be at their lowest
level since bilateral relations were established in 1972.  The islands, called Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China,
lie in Japanese administered waters rich in fish, oil and
natural gas. The Japanese government purchased them in
September, sparking protests across China and harming a $340
billion trade relationship that has yet to recover for companies
such as  Core Interest  “The Diaoyu Islands problem is an issue of sovereignty and
territorial integrity,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua
Chunying said at a briefing today. “Of course it constitutes a
core interest.”  China uses the “core interest” label for issues it
considers non-negotiable, such as its sovereignty over Taiwan
and  Tibet . Hua said she had no information about today’s defense
talks.  “It’s a tougher way of them sending a signal to the
international community that they are not going to relent,”
said Stephanie Kleine-Ahlbrandt, the Beijing-based North East
Asia project director for the  International Crisis Group .  Three Chinese ships entered Japanese-administered waters
near the islands today,  Kyodo News  reported, citing Japan’s
Coast Guard. China’s official Xinhua News Agency also reported
Chinese ships were in the area.  Planes and vessels from both countries have tailed one
another for months, prompting concern from U.S. officials that
the feud will escalate. Japan accused China of using weapons-
targeting radar in January on a Japanese destroyer and
helicopter in the waters, something the Chinese government
denied.  Yasukuni Visits  Almost 170 legislators visited Yasukuni Shrine on April 23,
two days after Finance Minister Taro Aso paid his respects there
as part of a spring festival, causing China and  South Korea  to
file protests. The  shrine  memorializes Japan’s war dead,
including World War II leaders convicted of  war crimes , and is
viewed in Asia as a symbol of atrocities during Japan’s
occupation of the region in the first half of the 20th century.  Bilateral trade has failed to recover since Chinese
demonstrators attacked Japanese businesses and boycotted their
products. Japanese exports to China fell in nine of 10 months
through March, and Toyota, Japan’s largest automaker, this week
said it doesn’t expect China sales to fully recover before
autumn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  