-- Jordan Says Cap on Franc Still Needed Given Euro Risks
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-04-26T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/jordan-says-cap-on-franc-still-needed-given-euro-risks.html
The Swiss franc is still strong and
the central bank’s currency cap remains necessary to insulate
the economy, Swiss National Bank President Thomas Jordan said.  “It is clearly too early to relax our guard,” Jordan said
according to the text of a  speech  at the central bank’s annual
general meeting today in Bern. “The global economic situation
is still fragile and the way out of the crisis in  Europe  is long
and arduous.”  The SNB set the cap of 1.20 per euro on the franc in
September 2011 to prevent deflation and a recession. It took the
step in response to a surge in haven flows from the euro area’s
debt crisis. There are still big “downside risks” for
 Switzerland , given that the euro area, the top destination for
its exports, is in recession, Jordan said.  “The threat that the franc could suddenly come under
upward pressure again has not been averted,” he said. The SNB
is prepared to buy unlimited amounts of foreign exchange to
defend the cap and “stands ready to take further measures at
any time,” he said.  Jordan’s remarks to shareholders echo comments he made in
 Washington  last week, when he termed the franc ceiling
“indispensable.” Last year the SNB spent 188 billion francs
($199 billion) to protect the cap, 10 times the 2011 amount.  “These foreign currency purchases were necessary,” he
said. “Given the circumstances, there was no alternative to the
minimum  exchange rate .”  At its most recent policy review in March, the SNB forecast
economic growth of as much as 1.5 percent for this year. Jordan
affirmed that view today, also repeating that there is no risk
of inflation or deflation for Switzerland for the foreseeable
future.  The central bank is structured as a joint-stock company, in
which public shareholders including cantons and regional banks
have a stake of about 55 percent. Private individuals hold the
remainder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  