-- JPMorgan Sees Spanish Bond Gains as Liquidity Fuels Rally
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-04-26T15:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/jpmorgan-sees-spanish-bond-gains-as-liquidity-fuels-rally-1-.html
Spanish and Italian bonds are
poised to extend gains as a recovery in liquidity lures
international investors back to the markets they fled during
 Europe ’s debt crisis, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  “The periphery’s performance has been very strong this
year and we still expect to see more,” said Carl Norrey, the
head of European rates securities at JPMorgan Chase and Co. in
 London  in an interview on April 22. “Lower yields, less
volatility, tighter bid-offer spreads and more turnover breed
confidence.”  Spanish bonds have returned 21 percent since European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged on July 26 to do
“whatever it takes” to safeguard the monetary union, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Italy’s bonds gained 16 percent.
The nation’s two-year note  yield  dropped to a record low on
April 23 as it moved closer to appointing a new government after
inconclusive elections two months ago.  The gap between the yield at which traders say they will
buy and sell Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond narrowed to less
than two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, this week from
more than 12 basis points in June 2012, according to closing-
market data compiled by Bloomberg.  Average daily trading of Spanish government bonds increased
to 44 billion euros ($57 billion) in February from 36 billion
euros in December, according to  data  from  Spain ’s Treasury. The
share of securities held by overseas investors rose to 37.9
percent, from 33.5 percent in August. In 2011 it was more than
50 percent.  Conviction Trade  Spain’s 10-year  bond yield  is headed for an eighth-straight
monthly decline, falling to 4.28 percent at 4:12 p.m. London
time today from 6.86 percent at the end of August. Italy’s 10-
year yield was at 4.07 percent today, from 5.85 percent on Aug.
31.  “It feels like the market is caught between respecting
that performance and not having huge conviction to necessarily
go long Italy or Spain,” said Norrey, referring to a bet that
the price of the securities will rise. “If you have a
resolution to a grand coalition in Italy in coming days, I see
no reason why we can’t end up having Italian yields at 3.50
percent to 3.75 percent in the next two-to-three weeks.”  Italy’s prime minister-designate Enrico Letta met
representatives from various political parties yesterday in a
bid to form a government. The country is still without a new
government after elections in February failed to produce a
conclusive result.  Italian  government bonds  fell for a third day today after a
rally that took the 10-year yield below 4 percent for the first
time since November 2010.  “The market has a lot of momentum and every time this year
when there’s been a selloff in peripheral bonds, losses have
been reversed within a week,” Norrey said. “Over the last few
years, a lot of people have tried to have a maximum short
position in the periphery because they thought the  euro zone 
would fall apart,” he said, referring to bets the bonds would
drop. “It hasn’t happened and investors got hurt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  