-- Junk Bond Yields Fall to Record as Schaeffler Leads Weekly Sales
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-04-26T15:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/junk-bond-yields-fall-to-record-as-schaeffler-leads-weekly-sales.html
Schaeffler AG, the privately-owned
German bearing maker, led 805 million euros ($1.1 billion) of
high-yield bond sales in  Europe  this week as borrowing costs
fell to a record.  The biggest investor in car-parts producer Continental AG,
sold 600 million euros of five-year bonds to yield 4.25 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance was below the
1.4 billion-euro weekly average for the year for the fifth
consecutive week, the data show.  Non-financial companies have issued a record 24.7 billion
euros of  junk bonds  in Europe this year, as average yields on
the debt fell to a low of 5.24 percent, according to Bloomberg
data and Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Investors poured
$597 million into high-yield bond portfolios in the week ending
April 17 while pulling $825 million from equity funds, Bank of
America reported, citing EPFR data.  “The cash market rally has continued this week with
ongoing demand for high-yield products even at these tighter
levels,” said Peter Din, a London-based credit strategist at
Mizuho International Plc. “I would expect to see steady supply
of new issues from now until the summer.”  British car retailer  Pendragon Plc (PDG) , the only other non-
financial company that sold high-yield debt this week, raised
175 million pounds ($270 million) in its first sale. It issued
seven-year senior secured bonds, Bloomberg data show.  High-yield, or speculative-grade, bonds are rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at
 Standard & Poor’s .  New Look  Average yields on junk-rated pound-denominated bonds
dropped to a low of 6.15 percent yesterday, Bank of America
index data show. Nottingham, U.K.-based Pendragon priced the
bonds to yield 6.875 percent, lower than its initially marketed
range of 7 percent to 7.25 percent, according to people familiar
with the deal.  Schaeffler, which also sold $850 million of eight-year
notes, increased the size of its two-part bond sale from an
expected equivalent of 1 billion euros to 1.25 billion euros due
to “extraordinary demand,” the Herzogenaurach, Germany-based
company said in an April 23 statement. Investors offered
“several times” more than the amount of bonds available,
according to the statement.  New Look Group Retail Ltd., a U.K. fashion retailer, is
among companies planning to sell bonds in coming weeks,
according to a company statement today. The issuer is meeting
European and U.S. investors from April 29 to May 2 to sell the
equivalent of 800 million pounds ($1.2 billion) of notes in
euros, pounds and dollars, according to people familiar with the
plan, who asked not to be identified because the details are
private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  