-- Keb’ Mo’ Brings Blues, Larry Carlton to Suburbia: Review
-- B y   S a r a h   G r a n t
-- 2013-04-26T16:25:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/keb-mo-brings-blues-larry-carlton-to-suburbia-review.html
Grammy Award-winning blues
guitarist Keb’ Mo’ brought the sound of the Mississippi Delta to
the Hudson River Valley last night.  At the Tarrytown  Music Hall  25 miles north of Manhattan,
the man born Kevin Moore in  Los Angeles  played rootsy material
with a twist.  If Lead Belly had been forced to eat cold pizza at his
son’s wild arcade birthday party, he might have sounded
something like “Perpetual Blues Machine,” which had the
audience laughing with its overdue bills and marital boredom.  “Suitcase” was the evening’s highlight. It’s an endearing
love story in the vein of Rupert Holmes’s “Escape (The Pina
Colada Song)”: “I met a girl, fell in love/Ooh our love was
true/Well and I found out, Lord,/She had a big old suitcase
too.”  Moore joked that his songs come from marrying 16 times. In
reality, it was three times. That was still too many for the
musician.  “Nothing challenges you more,” said Moore, 61, in a phone
interview earlier yesterday; he uses his real name in
conversation. Marriage “is just so interconnected. You begin to
lose your identity, and then the whole relationship becomes the
struggle of getting yourself back.”  Moore’s recording and performance collaborations go back to
Jefferson Airplane in the 1970s and continue through  Eric Clapton , Bonnie Raitt and many others.  Martin Scorsese  selected
him to play on his 2003 PBS documentary “The Blues.”  Carlton Harmonies  In Tarrytown, Moore was joined onstage by guitarist Larry
Carlton, bringing the total number of Grammys represented to
seven. Their first duet was “Closer,” a charming song replete
with elegant guitar weaving and harmonies.  Carlton also sat in for “The Whole Enchilada,” a soulful
tune with a culinary metaphor for a husband who vows to
recommit.  The first two encores were crowd-clapping singalongs: “She
Just Wants to Dance” and a slow, stripped-down version of the
Don Henley hit “Gimme What You Got.”  The true closer was his take on  Robert Johnson ’s 1937
classic “Love in Vain.”  Keb’ Mo’ has two more New York-area  dates : tonight in
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, and tomorrow in Westhampton Beach,  New
York . Then he moves south for mainly shows in  Tennessee  in May
and June.  (Sarah Grant works for  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Zinta Lundorg  on weekend events.  To contact the writer of this column:
Sarah Grant in New York at 
 Sgrant43@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 