-- Korean Bond Sales Set for Five-Month High as Economy Accelerates
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2013-04-26T01:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/korean-bond-sales-set-for-five-month-high-as-economy-accelerates.html
South Korean companies are poised
to sell the most won-denominated bonds in five months as they
scramble to lock in near-record-low borrowing costs after the
economy expanded at its fastest pace since 2011.  SK Networks Co. (001740) , the trading arm of  South Korea ’s third-
largest industrial group, led offerings this week, bringing
expected sales in April to 4.51 trillion won ($4.07 billion),
the most since November, preliminary figures compiled by
Bloomberg show. Expected issuance of 1 trillion won this week
comes after 1.33 trillion won last week, which was the busiest
in six weeks, the data show.  South Korea’s economy grew the most in two years in the
first quarter, fueling speculation that  Bank of Korea  Governor
Kim Choong Soo may resist political pressure for an interest-
rate cut after borrowing costs were left unchanged on April 11.
The extra yield investors demand to own Korean company notes
over similar-maturity government debt has narrowed to 35 basis
points from 47 at the end of last year. Three-year  sovereign
notes  were yielding 2.56 percent, near an all-time low of 2.44
percent on April 5.  “Borrowers are trying to secure funds through longer-term
notes while  interest rates  stay low,” Chung Yeon Hong, an
analyst at NH Investment & Securities Co., said by telephone
yesterday. “From investors’ point of view, there’s no big yield
merits in sovereign notes so I believe demand for corporate
notes will continue to be solid in May.”  SK Networks  SK Networks sold 250 billion won of notes in a two-part
sale on April 24. The money will be used for refinancing, the
company said in a regulatory filing on April 24. Two other
companies plan to price offerings this week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Our bond sale was successful as we actively took
advantage of longer-term notes amid the recent trend of low
interest rates,” SK Networks wrote in an e-mailed response to
questions. “The sale helped further boost the stability of our
finances.”  Posco (005490)  Energy Co., the power generating unit of  Asia ’s
third-biggest steelmaker, raised 200 billion won in five-year
and seven-year bonds, Bloomberg-compiled data show. Proceeds
will be used to repay debts and to invest in power plant
projects, the company said in an e-mail.  Asiana Airlines Inc. (020560) , the nation’s second-largest carrier,
raised 150 billion won in three-year and five-year bonds to fund
operating capital, according to an April 23 company filing.  South Korea’s  gross domestic product  gained 0.9 percent in
the first quarter from the previous three months, up from a 0.3
percent increase in the fourth quarter, the Bank of Korea said
yesterday. Before the report, concerns had mounted that Asia’s
fourth-largest economy would be hurt by record  household debt 
and a stagnant housing market, prompting President Park Geun Hye
to unveil a $15 billion extra budget and property stimulus
package this month.  The central bank is likely to hold the rate in the coming
months based on the stronger-than-expected growth last quarter
and expectations of better growth in the second half, Citigroup
Inc. analysts led by Jaechul Chang wrote in a report yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  