-- Korn/Ferry, Shire, Google: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-04-26T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/korn-ferry-shire-google-intellectual-property.html
David Nosal, former regional
managing director at  Korn/Ferry International (KFY) , was convicted of
trade-secret theft and hacking for gaining access to the job-
search firm’s proprietary database of executives.  Nosal, who worked for the Los Angeles-based executive
recruitment  firm  in Silicon Valley and other locations from 1996
to 2004, obtained reports and data from Korn/Ferry’s
“Searcher” database after he left the firm to start his own
executive search business, prosecutors said in court filings.
Searcher is a highly confidential computer system about
companies, executives, salaries and personal information.  Nosal, 55, of Danville,  California , agreed to work with
Korn/Ferry on some executive search assignments for about a year
after his departure and was barred from competing with
Korn/Ferry or using its business secrets under the terms of a
separation agreement he signed. Two other Korn/Ferry executives
who left the firm after Nosal did set up their own companies
that could be used as vehicles for Nosal to conduct executive
recruitment until the agreement expired, prosecutors said in
court filings.  The two used Nosal’s ex-secretary’s log-in credentials to
get “Searcher” reports for him. The secretary and the other
two former executives pleaded guilty to conspiracy charges and
cooperated with prosecutors, according to the filings.  A federal jury in San Francisco deliberated for two days
after a two-week trial in which Nosal’s ex-secretary and a
former coworker testified for prosecutors, court filings show.  Nosal was first indicted in 2008. The maximum penalty for
the most serious charges is 10 years in prison and a $250,000
fine or twice the gain or loss caused by the conduct. Sentencing
is scheduled for Sept. 4.  Steven Gruel, a lawyer for Nosal, and Michael Distefano, a
Korn/Ferry spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to e-mail
messages seeking comment on the verdict.  The case is U.S. v. Nosal, 08-cr-00237, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  California Plan to Regulate Fracking Stirs Trade Secrets Battle  A California proposal to regulate the chemicals used by oil
companies in hydraulic fracturing is stirring a battle over
industry assertions of trade secrets protection and
environmentalist calls for disclosure to shield public health.  State officials developing rules for fracking say they have
to walk a fine line to avoid lawsuits by both the public and the
industry, circumscribing their proposal.  “What we’re doing with the regulation is limiting how
often we would get sued,” said Jason Marshall, chief deputy
director of California’s Conservation Department, which oversees
oil and natural gas production.  California, the fourth-largest oil-producing state, is
wrestling with the potential hazards of fracking to unlock an
estimated 15.4 billion barrels of oil in a deposit known as the
Monterey shale. The state is the latest attempting to regulate
the fluids used in fracking, which shoots a mixture of water,
sand and chemicals underground to access dense rock formations.  Texas ,  Louisiana ,  Montana , New Mexico and North Dakota are
among those requiring the chemicals to be disclosed, while
leaving it to energy companies to decide what they label secret.  The industry “is attempting to exempt itself from the
basic regulation of its activities by virtue of arguing that its
commercial interests will be damaged if secrets are revealed,”
said David Levine, a law professor at Elon University in
Greensboro, North Carolina, who specializes in intellectual
property.  Dealing with trade secrets is nothing new for states,
Levine said, citing regulations that require voting-system
vendors to reveal the source code in their machines to election
officials, even if it’s privileged information, to assure the
integrity of balloting.  California’s initial proposal on fracking, released in
December, would call for companies to disclose a trade secret to
a public agency if it’s needed to investigate or respond to a
spill. It would also require disclosure to a physician to
diagnose or treat a patient or respond to a medical emergency.  “We would be having it available when we need it,”
Marshall said. “The operators are required to maintain that
information, they just don’t have to tell it to us until we need
it as regulators.”  California’s constitution requires public access to
government records unless exempted by law. The agency could face
a lawsuit from the public if it withheld requested data, or a
lawsuit from an oil company for violating trade-secret
protections if it released the information.  Patents  Shire Settles Actavis Suit to Delay Intuniv Copy Until 2014  Shire Plc (SHP)  agreed to a legal settlement preventing  Actavis
Inc. (ACT)  from introducing a low-cost copy of Shire’s Intuniv drug
for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder until December
2014.  Actavis will get a license from Shire to sell the copy
beginning Dec. 1, 2014, or earlier in certain circumstances,
Dublin-based Shire said in a statement yesterday. In return,
Actavis will pay a royalty of 25 percent of gross profit for the
first 180 days that the generic is on the market, London-based
Shire said. Shire is the largest maker of drugs for attention-
deficit hyperactivity disorder.  Actavis, based in Parsippany, New Jersey, in October won
U.S. approval for a generic version of the pill, which generated
revenue of $287.8 million last year for Shire. Shire sued,
saying it has valid patents on the drug. As part of their
agreement, Actavis conceded that its products infringed two
valid Shire patents that expire in 2020 and 2022.  The agreement “removes some near-term forecast risk” for
Shire, said Savvas Neophytou, an analyst at Panmure Gordon in
 London .  The agreement must be submitted to the U.S. Justice
Department and Federal Trade Commission for review.  Nestle Loses U.K. Bid to Block Nespresso Rival Capsule Sales  A  Nestle SA (NESN)  unit lost a patent infringement lawsuit that
sought to block a U.K. company from making capsules for the
Nespresso coffee-making machines.  Dualit Ltd.’s products don’t infringe Nestle patents for
the refill packs, Judge Richard Arnold said in a ruling on April
22. Nespresso customers “would assume that they were entitled
to obtain capsules to use with the machine from whatever source
they pleased,” he said.  While Nestle sold about 4 billion Swiss francs ($4.2
billion) worth of Nespresso products last year, that revenue is
under threat from companies making cheaper versions of the
coffee pods used in its machines. Nestle, the maker of Kit Kat
chocolate bars and Shredded Wheat cereal, lost legal bids in
 Germany  and Switzerland to restrict the sale of rival capsules.  The U.K. judgment “is inconsistent with the ruling by the
European Patent Office in April 2012, confirming the validity of
a key patent for the Nespresso system,” Nestle spokeswoman
Diane Duperret said in an e-mail.  Dualit said in a statement its capsules could now be sold  Nestle, based in Vevey, Switzerland, stopped reporting
sales details for Nespresso midway through last year due to
“the competitive environment,” Chief Financial Officer Wan
Ling Martello said at the time.  In 2010, Sara Lee Corp. and Ethical Coffee Co. both
introduced refills compatible with Nespresso machines. Swiss
retailer Migros sells five flavors of capsules from 556 stores
in the country.  Nestle is also involved in a legal dispute with Ethical
Coffee in Paris over alleged unfair competition practices.  throughout the U.K.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Google Plans to Overhaul Search to Settle EU Antitrust Probe  Google Inc. (GOOG)  offered to change the way it operates its
search page by “clearly” distinguishing its own search
services from those of rivals for five years in a bid to settle
an antitrust investigation by the European Union.  The owner of the world’s largest search engine  offered  to
label Google-branded search services and show links “to three
rival specialized search services close to its own” ones as
part of a series of commitments to end the almost three-year-old
probe, the EU said in a statement.  EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia has sought a
deal with Google to end the antitrust case without imposing
fines, while competitors such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  TripAdvisor
Inc. (TRIP)  have urged regulators to force Google to change its
practices. The European Commission has said Google is dominant
in Web search and search advertising in Europe and that the
Mountain View, California-based company may harm competition.  “Google’s proposed commitments appear to fall short of
ending the preferential treatment at the heart of the
commission’s case based on formal complaints from 17
companies,” said Thomas Vinje, a Brussels lawyer for the
FairSearch Coalition, which represents technology companies
including Microsoft,  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)  “Google’s own
screen shots” in its proposal show “it seeks approval to
continue preferential treatment for its own products.”  Rivals, users and companies in the same market will have a
month to give feedback to the Brussels-based antitrust regulator
on Google’s planned changes. Almunia has said a settlement may
be clinched “after the summer vacations” if the company’s
offer is deemed acceptable.  “We continue to work cooperatively with the European
Commission,” Al Verney, a Brussels based spokesman for Google,
said in an e-mail.  Google offered to “clearly separate” promoted links from
other Web search results by “clear graphical features,” the
commission said. The remedies would also allow specialized
search websites “to mark certain categories of information in
such a way that such information is not indexed or used by
Google.”  Google said nothing in its plans, dated April 3 and
published today, “should be construed as establishing a
violation of EU competition.”  The commission said it will study the feedback to assess
“whether the commitments may need to be improved to
adequately” address competition concerns.  Testimony Over in Macy’s, Martha Stewart, J.C. Penney Suits  Testimony in the trial of  Macy’s Inc.’s (M)  lawsuits against
 J.C. Penney (JCP)  Co. and  Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. (MSO)  has
concluded, according to a clerk in New York state court.  J.C. Penney in December 2011 acquired a 17 percent stake in
Martha Stewart Living for $38.5 million. Macy’s, which has sold
Martha Stewart-branded home goods since 2007, sued her company
the following month, saying it had the exclusive right to sell
items in certain categories including bedding and cookware.
Macy’s sued J.C. Penney about three months later.  The two suits were combined for a non-jury trial before
state Supreme Court Justice Jeffrey K. Oing that began Feb. 20
and featured testimony from Martha Stewart, Macy’s Chairman
Terry Lundgren and former J.C. Penney Chief Executive Officer
Ron Johnson, who was ousted April 8.  The parties returned to court on April 8 to resume the
trial after a monthlong break during which mediation efforts
ordered by Oing failed to produce a settlement. Macy’s rested
its case on April 10, and J.C. Penney called its last witnesses
on April 23.  Macy’s is awaiting a ruling in its appeal of Oing’s ruling
from last week denying a preliminary injunction preventing J.C.
Penney from selling Martha Stewart Living-designed goods under
the label “JCP Everyday.”  Oing said Macy’s hadn’t shown that it would suffer
irreparable harm if J.C. Penney was allowed to sell the “JCP
Everyday” goods. The judge said an earlier injunction he issued
in July against Martha Stewart Living applied only to goods sold
at J.C. Penney branded with Martha Stewart’s name in the
categories exclusive to Macy’s.  The next step in the case will be for the judge to set a
schedule for submission of post-trial briefs and closing
arguments,  Jim Sluzewski , a spokesman for Macy’s, said in an e-
mail. A clerk for Oing said a schedule hadn’t been set yet and
that closing arguments may come in June or July.  Joey Thomas, a spokesman for Plano, Texas-based J.C.
Penney, declined to comment on the end of testimony in the case
in an e-mail. Martha Stewart Living didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment.  The cases are Macy’s Inc. v. Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012; Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney Corp.,
652861/2012, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Gagosian, Richard Prince Win Challenge to Infringement Ruling  A federal appeals court overturned a copyright-infringement
finding against New York’s  Gagosian Gallery Inc . and artist
 Richard Prince .  Patrick Cariou , a Paris-based photographer, sued the
gallery, its owner Larry Gagosian, Prince and Rizzoli Publishing
Italia Srl for copyright infringement in December 2008. The
photographer accused the defendants of unauthorized use of the
photos in his book “Yes Rasta,” which contains a series of
photos of Rastafarians.  Prince used the photos from the book in a variety of ways,
including scanning them into a computer and incorporating them
into his paintings, Cariou said in his pleadings.  “Canal Zone,” a show of the Prince paintings, was held at
the gallery, and Rizzoli published a book of the same name and
based on the show.  According to court papers, the show of the infringing art
was so successful that eight of the paintings were sold for a
total of $10.48 million, with 60 percent of the proceeds going
to the artist and the other 40 percent to the gallery.  In March 2011 a federal judge in Manhattan found that the
gallery and the artist did infringe, saying “it has been a
matter of settled law for well over 100 years that creative
photographs are worthy of copyright protection even when they
depict real people and natural environments.”  She gave the artist, the gallery and the book publisher 10
days to deliver of all infringing art and unsold copies of the
catalog for destruction. She also required them to notify any
present or future owners of the Price paintings that the work
infringes the photographer’s copyright and because of this they
“cannot be lawfully displayed.”  Gagosian and Prince then appealed. The federal appeals
court yesterday said that the lower court ruling reached too far
to find infringement, and that most of the accused works fell
into copyright law’s area of “fair use” because they were
sufficiently transformative.  Five of the paintings were less altered from the originals,
the appeals court said, and those must be reconsidered by the
lower court.  The lower court case is Patrick Cariou v. Richard Price,
1:08-cv-11327-DAB, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The appeal is Patrick Cariou v. Richard Price,
11-1197, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  