-- N.Y. Bomb Plan Revelation Spurs Criticism of Questioning
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h ,   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-04-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/n-y-bomb-plan-revelation-spurs-criticism-of-questioning.html
Law enforcement claims that two
brothers suspected in the deadly Boston bombings planned to
drive to  New York  and set off explosives in Times Square
triggered Republican criticism of a decision to inform the
surviving one of his right to counsel and remain silent.  The FBI told New York City officials of the brothers’
alleged plans April 24, Mayor  Michael R. Bloomberg  said the
following day. The information came from a second interrogation
of suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. Initially, he allegedly told
investigators they were coming to New York just to “party.”  Following the April 15 bombing of the Boston Marathon,
Bloomberg said he “mobilized the  New York City Police
Department ’s counterterrorism operations because we thought
there was a possibility that they could attempt a related attack
here. We now know that possibility was, in fact, all too real.”  New York Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said the
brothers “spontaneously” decided to travel to New York and
detonate five pipe bombs and a pressure cooker device like the
two they allegedly exploded in Boston. Their plan “fell apart”
when they realized the car they had stolen was low on gasoline.  When they stopped for fuel, Kelly said, the carjacked
driver they were holding hostage escaped and called police.  Times Square  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev traveled to New York in April and
November of last year, said Kelly. Two years earlier, Faisal Shahzad bungled an attempt to detonate a car bomb in Times
Square. He pleaded guilty to packing explosives into his Nissan
Pathfinder and abandoning it. The bomb was discovered before it
went off, and Shahzad was sentenced to life in prison.  “We don’t know if we would have been able to stop the
terrorists had they arrived here from Boston, we’re just
thankful that we didn’t have to find out,” said Bloomberg, 71,
majority owner of Bloomberg LP, parent of  Bloomberg News .  Yesterday in  Washington , Michigan Representative Mike Rogers, the top Republican on the House Intelligence Committee,
and Representative Mike McCaul, the Texas Republican who leads
the Homeland Security Committee, assailed the length of time
Tsarnaev was questioned under the so-called public safety
exception, citing the New York attack allegations.  The exception allows investigators to withhold
constitutionally mandated warnings if they believe there is an
imminent threat, or in some cases to gain information on other
suspected terrorists or plots.  ‘Valuable Intelligence’  U.S. investigators lost “valuable intelligence” in
deconstructing the Boston bombing and identifying other possible
plots, McCaul said.  “Before he’s Mirandized, he does discuss the fact that
they were going to Times Square,” he said, referring to the
U.S. Supreme Court decision Miranda v.  Arizona , which delineates
rights that must be declared to custodial suspects if their
statements are to be used in court. “I don’t understand why
there was this rush to Mirandize.”  The  Justice Department  instructed law enforcement officers
not to advise Tsarnaev of his constitutional rights after his
April 19 arrest, based on the exception. Tsarnaev, unable to
speak due to injuries suffered in a four-day manhunt, had
communicated through nods and written answers to questions,
according to federal law enforcement officials. He indicated
that he and his older brother Tamerlan acted alone.  Unsealed Complaint  After the criminal complaint against him was unsealed April
22, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev had an initial appearance before a
magistrate judge in his Boston hospital room.  The judge informed him of his Miranda rights, according to
a court transcript.  “The rules of criminal procedure require that the
defendant be taken before a magistrate judge without unnecessary
delay and that the court advise the defendant of his right to
silence and his right to counsel,” Dean Boyd, a spokesman for
the Justice Department, said in a statement.  The U.S. Marshals Service, which took Tsarnaev into custody
from the FBI after his initial appearance, said yesterday he had
been moved to the Federal Medical Center Devens.  The  Massachusetts  U.S. prison facility is home to convicted
hedge fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam , who is serving an 11-year
sentence for  insider trading .  Preventing Attack  As the U.S. probes how the bombs were built and detonated,
lawmakers are asking whether the FBI and CIA did all they could
to prevent the attack. The agencies were queried in 2011 by an
overseas government about Dzhokhar’s older brother. A  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  review at the time turned up nothing
incriminating, while the Central Intelligence Agency put his
name into an interagency database.  “It’s way too soon to criticize or to start making
political arguments of who failed,” Maryland Representative
C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger, the top Democrat on the House
Intelligence Committee, said April 24 after a closed briefing
with U.S. intelligence and law enforcement officials.  Last week’s bombings killed three people and wounded more
than 260. In its aftermath, U.S. lawmakers said they’re learning
from investigators that Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, and Dzhokhar, 19,
were schooled in radical Islam and terrorist bomb-making online,
said Ruppersberger.  “Everything that I see right now seems like they were
radicalized through the Internet,” he said.  The elder brother died in a shootout with police while the
younger one was later captured a few blocks away in the same
 Boston  suburb. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev faces possible execution if
convicted on either of the two capital counts he faces.  Toy Cars  On April 24, federal law-enforcement officials and members
of Congress briefed on the matter revealed that the brothers
used toy car-remote controls to set off the Boston blasts.  The device that detonated the bombs was described by McCaul
as the type used to control a toy car. The electronics were
placed in pressure cookers along with ball bearings, nails,
gunpowder and other components, he said, showing the
perpetrators “had some level of training.”  The FBI has concluded that the bombs contained explosives
from fireworks, possibly along with additional explosive
material still being analyzed, according to a U.S. official who
asked not to be identified discussing an active probe.  Tsarnaev has told investigators the brothers found bomb-
making information in the pages of Inspire, an online magazine
affiliated with the al-Qaeda terror organization, Ruppersberger
said.  Motivations, Funding  Investigators are examining whether the brothers, ethnic
Chechens, were prompted by people or organizations outside the
U.S. A federal official briefed on the interrogation said the
wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan  were cited as a motivating factor
behind the Boston attack.  The older brother traveled for six months in  Russia  last
year and visited the republics of Dagestan and Chechnya, where
there are Islamic separatist movements. U.S. investigators
traveled to the region this week.  In late September 2011, the CIA received information from
another government on Tamerlan Tsarnaev almost identical to that
which the FBI had received in March 2011, according to a U.S.
intelligence official who asked not to be identified.  The CIA nominated Tsarnaev for a list that provides
information to various government agencies about people who may
be of interest to them -- the so-called TIDE database, for
Terrorist Identities Datamart Environment.  Russian Intelligence  The Russian intelligence service provided information
including two possible dates of birth, Tamerlan’s name and a
possible spelling variation in late September 2011, according to
the official. It was substantially the same as what Russia’s
Federal Security Service had given the FBI about six months
earlier.  The FBI, which interviewed the older Tsarnaev brother as
part of its investigation, found nothing incriminating, the
official said.  Investigators are now looking into money the Tsarnaev
brothers may have received from relatives, friends, people
overseas or other sources, according to a person familiar with
the matter who asked not to be identified because the probe is
continuing.  McCaul, the Texas Republican, said yesterday that the FBI
is focusing on financing for the alleged bombers.  “The funding here is very important,” he said. “The old
saying ‘follow the money’ is true here.”  The case is U.S. v. Tsarnaev, 13-mj-02106, U.S. District
court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State  Supreme Court  in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  