-- New Flaherty Rules Threaten Mortgage-Backed ABCP: Canada Credit
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-04-26T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/new-flaherty-rules-threaten-mortgage-backed-abcp-canada-credit.html
A Canadian government move to limit
housing risk may eliminate the C$6.8 billion ($6.7 billion)
market for commercial paper backed by insured residential
mortgages, according to DBRS Ltd.  The new policy, laid out in Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s
March 21  federal budget , will prevent mortgage-finance companies
that don’t take deposits from funding home loans through asset-
backed commercial paper, DBRS said in a research note this week.
Sales in that part of the ABCP market rose from C$6 billion in
December and now make up more than a quarter of the total C$25.6
billion outstanding, the Toronto-based rating company said.  Flaherty and Bank of  Canada  Governor  Mark Carney  have
warned that mounting household debt poses a risk to the
country’s financial system and economy. Financial institutions
will be banned from using insured mortgages as collateral on
securities not sponsored by Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp., the
federal housing agency, the government said in the budget.  Lenders such as  First National Financial Corp. (FN)  and  MCAP ,
both based in Toronto, are examples of companies that don’t take
deposits, relying instead partly on asset-backed commercial
paper to finance mortgage lending.  Such companies may not be able to offer as many mortgage
products as commercial banks, curbing competition, DBRS analysts
Kevin Chiang and Jamie Feehely wrote, and potentially leading to
higher rates.  ‘Too Much’  “Their balance sheets are quite small,” Chiang said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “If they can’t find an
outlet to fund these mortgages and they have to put them on
their balance sheet, it’s just going to be way too much.”  Companies that offer ABCP may be unable to fill the gap
with other assets, reducing the amount of debt outstanding,
Chiang said.  First National has other ways of funding its mortgages,
such as selling debt directly to institutional investors, Chief
Financial Officer Robert Inglis said in an e-mail. Still, the
alternatives may not be as “economical” as ABCP.  Less than 5 percent of the company’s C$67 billion of
mortgages under management are funded through ABCP, he said.  A spokesman for MCAP didn’t return a call seeking comment.  The ratio of Canadian  household debt  to disposable income
rose to a record 165 percent at the end of last year,  Statistics
Canada  said last month.  Mortgage Rules  Flaherty tightened mortgage rules for the fourth time in
four years in July on concern some regional housing markets were
overheating. He reduced the maximum amortization period on
mortgages the government insures to 25 years, from 30 years.  Canada requires that mortgages with down payments of less
than 20 percent be insured. Most mortgages in the country are
insured by CMHC and fully guaranteed by the government.  “The Government is making these changes to increase market
discipline in residential lending and reduce taxpayer exposure
to the housing sector,” said Stephanie Rubec, a finance
department spokeswoman, by e-mail. “Financial institutions will
continue to have access to a broad array of financing options.”  “The government will be consulting with industry
stakeholders on implementation details and the timing of these
measures,” Rubec said.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Calgary-based  Pembina Pipeline
Corp. (PPL)  sold C$200 million in 4.75 percent 30-year securities
priced to yield 235 basis points over comparable federal-
government debt.  Corporate Bonds  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of
Canadian investment-grade corporations rather than the federal
government debt held steady yesterday from a day earlier at 124
basis points, or 1.24 percentage points, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Canada Corporate Index. Yields increased
to 2.72 percent, from 2.70 percent on April 24.  Spreads on provincial bonds were unchanged at 78 basis
points yesterday from April 24, while yields rose to 2.48
percent, from 2.45 percent, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Canadian Provincial & Municipal Index.  Corporate bonds have returned 2.2 percent this year, while
provincial bonds have gained 1.1 percent and federal-government
securities have added 0.9 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show.  Two-year  government bonds  rose, sending the yield down one
basis point to 0.93 percent. The price of the 1 percent bond due
May 2015 added 2 cents to C$100.14.  ‘Onerous’ Requirements  Flaherty last year prohibited insured mortgages from
serving as collateral for covered bonds, another form of debt
used by some banks to finance home loans. CMHC released detailed
rules for issuers in December.  Lenders other than the country’s biggest banks are unlikely
to issue covered bonds under the new system, because of
“onerous” disclosure and compliance requirements, DBRS said.  The Canadian government is “wise” to limit its exposure
to housing market losses, said William Aston-Reese, vice
president of money-market sales at Tradition North America Inc.
in  New York .  “What happened here is the mortgages stopped performing,
so the  cash flow  into the securities ended, and the commercial
paper couldn’t be paid off,” Aston-Reese said by phone from New
York. “Your exposure is to the entire housing market going
belly up.”  Canadian existing home sales rose 2.4 percent in March from
the previous month, the  Canadian Real Estate Association  said
April 15. Sales were down 15.3 percent from a year earlier.  A segment of Canada’s commercial-paper market collapsed in
August 2007 on concern that part of the debt was backed by risky
U.S. subprime mortgages. More than 100 companies and 1,765
individuals were saddled with paper that couldn’t trade until a
court-ordered plan to convert the short-term debt into longer-
term notes was completed 17 months later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  