-- New Look Private-Equity Owners May Exit After Bond Offering
-- B y   J u l i e   M i e c a m p   a n d   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-04-26T18:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/new-look-seeks-to-raise-1-2-billion-of-bonds-to-refinance-debt.html
New Look Retail Group Ltd.’s
private-equity owners will want to exit the U.K. fashion chain
in the next few years, Chief Financial Officer Alistair Miller
said, as the company seeks to raise 800 million pounds ($1.2
billion) of bonds.  The retailer has received “a lot of support” from
shareholders Permira Advisers LLP and Apax Partners LLP, as well
as from holders of its so-called payment-in-kind notes, Miller
said in a telephone interview. The sale of bonds is possible now
because of “much better” trading and more receptive debt
markets, he said.  The Weymouth, England-based company will use the bond
proceeds to repay all of its senior and mezzanine debt and part
of its PIK notes, the company said in an e-mailed statement. The
refinancing plan also includes new PIK debt paying an interest
rate of 12%, Miller said.  The company’s existing PIK, where borrowers can pay
interest with more debt, totaled 717 million pounds in March
2012, up from 359 million pounds when first offered to
investors, according to a  statement  on its website.  The retailer postponed plans for an initial public offering
in 2010 citing an unfavorable market backdrop. Proceeds from the
share sale would have been used to reduce the company’s debt and
fund growth plans, it said at the time. New Look was acquired by
company founder Tom Singh, Permira and Apax Partners in 2004 for
669 million pounds.  A spokeswoman for Permira, who asked not to be named citing
company policy, declined to comment on the exit plan. Officials
from Apax didn’t respond to an e-mail and calls seeking comment.  Senior Secured  The closely-held U.K. fashion chain is offering the senior
secured notes in two parts, according to a person familiar with
the deal. It is selling five-year fixed-rate notes in pounds and
dollars that can be called back after two years, and five-year
floating-rate notes in euros and pounds callable after one year,
the person said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are joint
global coordinators on the deal, the person said. Deutsche Bank
AG, HSBC Holdings Plc, Lloyds Banking Group Plc and Royal Bank
of Scotland Plc are joint bookrunners. The banks will meet
investors in  Europe  and the U.S. from April 29 until May 2.  The company generated revenues of 1.5 billion pounds and
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of 198 million pounds in the year to Dec. 22, 2012, it said in
the statement. It reported Ebitda of 147 million pounds in the
year to March 2012, according to a  statement  on its website.  The retailer, which has 1,141 stores, received approval
last year to extend the maturity of senior loans in exchange for
higher interest rates on the debt, people said at the time. Its
net debt is about 1.1 billion pounds, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Miecamp in London at 
 jmiecamp@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  