-- Nigerian Battle Kills 25 After Boko Haram Bank Heist and Ambush
-- B y   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-04-26T13:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/nigerian-battle-kills-25-after-boko-haram-bank-heist-and-ambush.html
Suspected Boko Haram militants in
Nigeria robbed a bank and attacked a police station, setting off
a gun battle with security forces that killed 25 people, Yobe
state Police Commissioner Sanusi Rufai said.  Five policemen were among those gunned down during the
fighting yesterday in the northeastern town of Gashua, he said
today by phone from the state capital of Damaturu. The attackers
forced the bank manager to open the vault and stole 9 million
naira ($56,500), he said.  The joint task force in the state yesterday said the clash
killed five Boko Haram suspects and two policemen. A suspected
Boko Haram ambush in neighboring Borno state, site of a weekend
battle that led to as many as 185 deaths, killed two police
officers, state Police Commissioner Yuguda Abdullahi said.  Authorities in Nigeria,  Africa ’s largest oil producer, have
been battling an insurgency by Boko Haram that’s killed hundreds
of people since 2009 in bomb and gun attacks in the largely
Muslim north and the capital, Abuja. The group says it wants to
impose strict Islamic rule in Nigeria, Africa’s most populous
nation, with more than 160 million people almost evenly split
between the north and a mainly Christian south.  The U.S. criticized Boko Haram’s “heartless attacks”
while urging Nigerian authorities to use appropriate force in
the “asymmetrical battle” against “a determined foe,”
Ambassador Terence McCulley said yesterday in an  op-ed  on the
embassy’s website.  “We remain deeply concerned about reports of extra-
judicial killings, illegal detention, and destruction of
property by security forces,” he said. “Such acts create a
deadly cycle of mistrust, harming the very citizens the security
forces pledge to protect.”  Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan’s office on April 22
said authorities will investigate whether the military complied
with the rules of conduct in the Baga clash.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gbenga Akingbule in Maiduguri at 
 gakingbule@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  