-- Nomura Profit Triples to Seven-Year High on Investment Banking
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-04-26T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/nomura-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-on-investment-banking.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ’s quarterly
profit more than tripled to the highest in seven years, beating
analysts’ estimates as  investment banking  fees and brokerage
commissions surged.  Net income rose to 82.4 billion yen ($835 million) for the
three months ended March 31 from 22.1 billion a year earlier,
 Japan ’s biggest brokerage said yesterday. The result exceeded
the 56 billion yen average estimate of nine  analysts .  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s push to end deflation and
stimulate the economy has spurred Japanese equities and weakened
the yen, improving prospects for domestic securities firms.
Stock trading volume has boosted brokerage fee income and
investment banking is picking up, with Japanese stock offerings
tripling to 1.7 trillion yen so far this year.  “The headlines show just how positive the impact of the
market rally has been,” said Mac Salman, an analyst at
Jefferies Group LLC in Tokyo, keeping his buy rating on the
stock. “We see earnings improving in line with our positive
market view.”  Shares of Tokyo-based Nomura closed 0.7 percent lower at
762 yen before the announcement and have climbed 51 percent this
year. The Topix Index dropped 1 percent as the  Bank of Japan 
refrained from expanding monetary easing, paring its gain in
2013 to 35 percent, still the best among major global markets.  Raises Dividend  The Japanese bank said it will buy back as much as 1.1
percent of its shares for 35 billion yen next month to allow
 stock options  to be exercised. It tripled its dividend for the
fiscal second half to 6 yen from 2 yen.  Chief Executive Officer Koji Nagai, 54, last month named
Shigesuke Kashiwagi as chief financial officer to implement a $1
billion cost-reduction plan and sustain a profit recovery as
markets rally. Nagai became CEO in August after predecessor
Kenichi Watanabe resigned following revelations that staff
leaked non-public information on share sales the firm managed.  Revenue climbed 27 percent last quarter from a year earlier
to 720.1 billion yen, yesterday’s report showed. Brokerage
commissions jumped 39 percent to 125.7 billion yen. Investment
banking fees rose 47 percent to 21.8 billion yen. Trading profit
increased 7.7 percent to 106.5 billion yen.  “The market advance has improved Nomura’s retail
businesses on stock broking and mutual fund sales,” Azuma Ohno,
a Tokyo-based analyst at Barclays Plc, said before the results.
“The question now is whether the pickup will last, given that
trading volume has already neared a 10-year peak.”  Daiwa Profit  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601) , the country’s second-biggest
brokerage, may report 25 billion yen quarterly profit on May 1,
the most in three years, according to the average of analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. banks earlier this month also reported improved
earnings, helped by cost reductions.  Bank of America Corp.  and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. led the country’s six largest banks in
boosting combined first-quarter profit 45 percent.  Credit Suisse Group AG,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank,
said on April 24 it almost tripled quarterly profit on lower
costs and improved earnings at its investment bank.  Former CFO Junko Nakagawa said in January that she expects
investment banking to recover this year as the stock rally lures
companies to  capital markets . The business had weighed on a
revival in profit growth at Nomura after it lost some bond and
equity deals following last year’s insider-trading scandal.  Top Underwriter  Nomura regained the top spot in Japan’s bond underwriter
rankings in the quarter, after mobilizing its 177-branch retail
network to help Softbank Corp. sell 210 billion yen of debt. It
won 29 percent of the market, the most since 2008, including
self-led issues, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The brokerage slipped to second in Japanese equity sales
from a year earlier, trailing Daiwa. It was No. 2 in mergers and
acquisitions advisory, the data show.  Nomura continued to struggle  abroad  last quarter. Its
pretax loss from overseas widened to 42 billion yen from 24.6
billion yen a year earlier. In  Europe , it lost 36.5 billion yen
before taxes, while the U.S. made a 2.3 billion yen profit.
 Asia , the region abroad where Nomura is seeking to concentrate,
lost 7.9 billion yen.  “Competition in Asia is very hard as there are many
rivals, and it takes time to create a franchise,” CFO Kashiwagi
said at a news briefing in Tokyo. “We see some cross-border
deals and got some IPO mandates in the region. We will keep
working with a long-term outlook.”  Europe Cuts  Nomura will continue to cut costs and improve profitability
in Europe, Kashiwagi said later on a call with analysts. The
region has borne the brunt of Nagai’s expense reductions,
reducing headcount by 129 over the three months. Jeremy Bennett
was named CEO for Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa  this month,
replacing John Phizackerley.  Kashiwagi also spoke about Nomura’s involvement in a probe
into whether derivatives it arranged for Banca Monte dei Paschi
di Siena SpA were intended to hide losses at the Italian bank.
Italian prosecutors have attempted to seize more than 1.8
billion euros ($2.3 billion) of assets pledged by Monte Paschi
from Nomura accounts in  Germany ,  Italy  and the U.K.  None of the assets in Germany or at Nomura’s Milan branch
have been seized, while Italian prosecutors ordered a freeze on
a small amount of cash and some receivables in Italy, Kashiwagi
said. Nomura takes the matter “very seriously” and will take
“all appropriate steps” to protect stakeholders, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  