-- Normal India Monsoon Poised to Bolster Farm Output, Curb Prices
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-04-26T11:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/normal-india-monsoon-poised-to-bolster-farm-output-curb-prices.html
India, the world’s second-biggest
rice, wheat and sugar cane grower, may get above-average monsoon
rainfall for the third time in four years in 2013, boosting crop
harvests and curbing retail food prices.  Rain will be 98 percent of a 50-year average of 89
centimeters (35 inches) in the four months through September,
Earth Sciences Minister S. Jaipal Reddy told reporters in New
Delhi today. The bureau, which defines normal precipitation as
96 percent to 104 percent of the long-term average, will issue a
detailed forecast in June, Reddy said.  A normal monsoon is critical to Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s efforts to ease water shortages, control food prices and
spur growth after the weakest rainfall in three years in 2012
cut production of rice, cotton, oilseeds and sugar. Increased
farm output may boost rural incomes, lifting sales of everything
from gold to tractors and mobile phones. Agriculture accounts
for about a fifth of the economy, while 55 percent of the farm
land does not have access to irrigation.  “Good rain will lead to good production of agricultural
commodities, which will lead to lower prices and inflation,”
said Faiyaz Hudani, a senior analyst at Mumbai-based Kotak
Commodity Services Ltd. “This may help the  Reserve Bank  of
India to ease  interest rates . Farmers will have more money to
spend as they will have a good crop.”  Consumer prices rose 10.39 percent in March, while
 wholesale price -based inflation slowed to a 40-month low of 5.96
percent last month, according to official data.  India ’s economic
growth was 5 percent in the fiscal year ended March 2013, the
slowest pace since 2003, partly because of a decline in farm
output caused by a below-average monsoon last year and a
moderation in investment, the statistics agency estimates.  Boosting Growth  Food grain production, including rice and wheat, will fall
3.5 percent to 250.1 million tons in the year ending June 30
from a year earlier, according to the farm ministry. The drought
will also cut sugar output for a second year, according to the
Indian Sugar Mills Association. The growth in  agriculture sector 
is estimated at 1.8 percent in 2012-2013, the least in three
years, according to the government.  “A good monsoon will boost growth,”  Madan Sabnavis , chief
economist at  Credit Analysis & Research Ltd. (CARE) , said in a phone
interview from Mumbai. “Even though agriculture contributes
just about 14 percent of the economy, the sector provides a lot
of important purchasing power for industrial goods and  consumer
goods  in particular.”  Borrowing Costs  India’s central bank has lowered  borrowing costs  twice in
2013, limiting each rate cut to 25 basis points, to spur
investment. The government estimates growth has slowed to a
decade low as foreign direct investment slid 20 percent to $30.8
billion in the April-to-January period, set for the biggest 12-
month drop since the fiscal year through March 2002. The next
policy decision on interest rates is due May 3.  More than 235 million farmers depend on rain for irrigating
crops such as rice and cotton. The monsoon, which brings more
than 70 percent of the annual rain, usually makes landfall in
the south in June and covers the whole country by July 15.
Sowing of crops begins in June and harvesting in September.  A normal monsoon may ensure India sustains exports of  rice ,
wheat, cotton and other farm commodities, said Hudani.  A ban on exports of sugar, rice and wheat was extended in
2009 following the weakest monsoon since 1972. Record harvests
of rice, wheat and cotton in 2011-2012, following two normal
monsoons, led to the bans being scrapped. State stockpiles of
rice and wheat rose to 59.8 million tons at the start of this
month from 53.4 million tons a year earlier, according to the
Food Corp. of India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  