-- North Korea Threatens South After Rejecting Joint Factory Talks
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-04-26T07:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/north-korea-ignores-south-s-deadline-for-talks-on-joint-factory.html
North Korea  threatened retaliation
against South Korea for demanding talks aimed at re-opening a
jointly-run industrial park that has been shuttered for more
than two weeks.  The North will take “final, decisive and serious
measures” if President Park Geun Hye’s government continues to
issue ultimatums, the National Defense Commission said in a
statement on the official Korean Central News Agency. Kim Jong Un’s regime today ignored a noon deadline to accept an offer for
talks on the Gaeseong industrial zone or face what the South’s
Unification Ministry said would be “serious measures.”  The Korean peninsula has been on edge since February, when
Kim Jong Un’s regime detonated an atomic bomb in defiance of
 United Nations  sanctions then threatened preemptive nuclear
strikes against its enemies. The North on April 8 recalled its
workers from Gaeseong, the last point of inter-Korean exchange
and an important cash source for its impoverished nation.  The complex, about 10 kilometers (6 miles) north of the
demilitarized zone between the two countries, employs more than
53,000 North Koreans at 123 South Korean companies. North Korea
generates $100 million in annual profits there, while South
Korea makes quadruple that amount, according to Yang Moo Jin, a
professor at the University of North Korean Studies in Seoul.  The South should withdraw all remaining citizens if
concerned about their well-being, KCNA said, adding that
relevant North Korean organizations will “responsibly provide
all assistance” to guarantee their safety.  Entry Ban  Park said at meeting of national security officials that it
is unclear whether  South Korea  “must wait indefinitely” for
the Gaeseong situation to normalize, according to a statement on
her website.  North Korea on April 3 blocked South Korean access to the
complex only allowing them to leave. Currently 176 South Korean
executives and managers voluntarily remain in Gaeseong, and none
plan to return to Seoul today, Unification Ministry spokesman
Kim Hyung Suk said.  Since all traffic from the South into Gaeseong was banned,
remaining South Koreans have been suffering from a shortage of
food and medical resources. One citizen returned to Seoul
yesterday after suddenly falling ill, the Unification Ministry
said.  With the U.S. and South Korea calling on North Korea to
return to negotiations, Park’s options in pressuring Kim over
Gaeseong “are very limited,” said Kim Young Yoon, a research
fellow at the Korea Institute for National Unification in  Seoul .  Jeopardizing Efforts  “Removing South Korean workers, assets and companies from
Gaeseong or taking some military action against the North for
not responding to calls for dialogue will jeopardize all
diplomatic efforts and what little that’s left to salvage
deteriorated ties,” said Kim.  South Korean companies operating there have urged the
government to break the impasse and address damages from the
loss of operations. The association representing them yesterday
issued a statement calling for talks between the two countries
“as soon as possible.”  The warning from Park’s government is probably “in
response to domestic public opinion, which is souring over the
concerns for the losses being incurred,” analyst Kim said.  Kim Jong Un, who took over as leader in December 2011
following the death of father  Kim Jong Il , has rebuffed
international inducements to abandon nuclear weapons
development. The Obama administration has rejected claims North
Korea possesses the ability to launch nuclear-armed ballistic
missiles while warning Kim’s inexperience raises the possibility
of errors.  Miscalculation Risk  The risk of a miscalculation in the dispute over North
Korea’s nuclear and missile programs has increased, the chairman
of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff said April 24 in Beijing.
 China , North Korea’s biggest ally, regards the situation “very
seriously,” General Martin Dempsey told reporters after meeting
officials including President Xi Jinping.  China regards its neighbor as a strategic buffer with U.S.-
backed South Korea. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said ahead of
meetings this month in Beijing that Xi’s government needs to
“put some teeth” into restraining Kim’s regime.  In a sign of greater cooperation, China’s North Korea
envoy,  Wu Dawei , visited  Washington  and discussed North Korea
with Undersecretary of State Wendy Sherman, Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman Hua Chunying said yesterday. U.S. Deputy Secretary
of State  William Burns  is visiting Beijing and Seoul this week.  The North is ready to conduct another nuclear test “at any
moment,” South Korean Defense Ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok
said April 23. North Korea vowed to strengthen its nuclear
program after a U.S. State Department report found the country
guilty of “egregious and pervasive” human rights abuses.  South Korean Foreign Minister Yun Byung Se met Chinese
counterpart Wang Yi April 24 in Beijing. The talks paving the
way for the start of a three-way “strategic dialogue” with the
U.S. over issues including North Korea, Foreign Ministry
spokesman Cho Tai Young told reporters yesterday in Seoul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  