-- Novartis Treated Doctors to Fishing, Hooters Outings, U.S. Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/novartis-paid-for-doctor-fishing-hooters-outings-u-s-says-1-.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  was sued by the U.S.,
for the second time this week, for allegedly paying kickbacks to
increase prescription-drug sales.  Novartis plied physicians with expensive dinners, speaker
fees, fishing trips and outings at Hooters restaurants to get
them to increase prescriptions of the company’s drugs, the U.S.
said in a complaint filed yesterday in Manhattan federal court.
Federal health care programs were forced to pay millions of
dollars for kickback-tainted claims as a result, the U.S. said.  The government intervened in a private False Claims Act
suit filed in 2011, alleging that the Basel, Switzerland-based
drug maker violated the Anti-Kickback Statute to increase sales
of two of its hypertension drugs, Lotrel and Valturna, and its
diabetes drug Starlix. The suit seeks triple damages and civil
penalties.  “Novartis corrupted the prescription drug dispensing
process with multimillion-dollar ‘incentive programs’ that
targeted doctors who, in exchange for illegal kickbacks, steered
patients toward its drugs,”  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement yesterday. “Novartis reaped
dramatically increased profits on these drugs, and Medicare,
Medicaid and other federal health-care programs were left
holding the bag.”  Novartis was also ordered by a jury this week to pay 
more than $2.1 million in a trial over its Aredia and Zometa 
bone-strengthening drugs.  Rebates, Discounts  On April 23, Bharara’s office sued Novartis for allegedly
paying kickbacks, disguised as rebates and discounts, to at
least 20 pharmacies for switching patients to its
immunosuppressant drug Myfortic.  Julie Masow, a Novartis spokeswoman, said the company
disputes both U.S. suits and will defend itself.  “As a leading healthcare company, NPC is committed to high
standards of ethical business conduct and regulatory compliance
in the sale and marketing of our products,” she said yesterday
in an e-mail. The physician speaker programs targeted in
yesterday’s lawsuit are an accepted practice in the industry,
she said.  The rebates and discounts cited by the government in the
Myfortic case are “a customary, appropriate and legal
practice” and the kickback lawsuit is “inconsistent with law
and policy in this area,” Masow said.  2010 Settlement  In September 2010, Novartis agreed to pay $422.5 million to
resolve criminal and civil charges that it paid kickbacks and
illegally promoted drugs for unapproved uses. As part of the
settlement, the company signed a five-year corporate integrity
agreement with the  Department of Health  and Human Services,
which required reforms including a compliance program relating
to promotional activities.  The 80-page agreement provides that Novartis may be barred
from participation in federal health care programs, including
Medicare and Medicaid, for a “material breach.”  On April 24, Novartis was told by a jury in federal court
in  Los Angeles  to pay more than $2.1 million to a cancer
survivor who blamed the drugmaker’s Aredia and Zometa for 
damaging her jaw.  Jurors found that Novartis officials failed to properly
warn Adriann Georges and her doctors about the drugs’ health
risks and ordered the company to pay compensatory damages,
according to court filings. Georges contends the drugs ate away
her jaw as she struggled through breast-cancer treatments.  “We are disappointed and disagree with the jury’s verdict,
and we are reviewing our appellate options in this case,” Masow
said in a phone interview yesterday.  The case filed yesterday is U.S. v. Novartis
Pharmaceuticals Corp., 11-cv-00071, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  The Los Angeles case is Georges v. Novartis, 06-cv-05207,
U.S. District Court, Central District of  California  (Los
Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  