-- Obama Says U.S. Seeks to Confirm Syria Chemical Arms Use
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-04-26T20:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/obama-s-syria-red-line-tested-by-chemical-weapons-report.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
U.S. is seeking corroboration of intelligence that Bashar al- Assad’s regime in Syria used chemical weapons in that country’s
civil war, reiterating that confirmation would be a “game-
changer” for the U.S. response.  Speaking before a private White House meeting with Jordan’s
King Abdullah II, Obama repeated the language the administration
used yesterday that intelligence agencies have “varying degrees
of confidence” in evidence that chemical munitions were used
against Assad’s opponents.  “There are a range of questions around how, when, where
these weapons may have been used,” Obama said today. “We have
to make these assessments deliberately, but I think all of us --
not just in the United States, but around the world -- recognize
how we cannot stand by and permit the systematic use of weapons
like chemical weapons on civilian populations.”  In his first public remarks since the U.S. disclosed it has
evidence that chemical weapons were used in  Syria , Obama didn’t
specify how the U.S. might respond.  The president is under pressure from from American
lawmakers to take stronger action in Syria following U.S.
intelligence assessments that sarin nerve gas may have been used
in the conflict. The administration has resisted providing arms
to the rebels or taking direct military action.  ‘Varying’ Confidence  The White House informed lawmakers yesterday that U.S.
intelligence agencies have concluded “with varying degrees of
confidence” that Assad’s regime has used small amounts of sarin
nerve gas. That marked a change from previous administration
statements that questioned whether evidence have been found to
support allegations of chemical attacks.  “The president wants the facts,” White House press
secretary Jay Carney said earlier today at a White House
briefing. “We have some evidence, and we need to build on
that.”  While the U.S. intelligence community has differing levels
of confidence that Assad’s regime has used poison gas, the new
assessment draws Obama closer to his previously declared “red
line” over such use and fueled calls for action by lawmakers
already advocating deeper involvement.  “The Syrians crossed the line the president had said would
be a game changer,” Republican Senator John McCain of  Arizona 
told reporters yesterday.  Classified Briefing  At a classified briefing today for members of the U.S.
House, Secretary of State John Kerry gave no indication about
when or if the U.S. will act, said Representative John Mica, a
Florida Republican.  Representative Brad Sherman, a California Democrat, said
Kerry described a range of potential steps.  “It’s everything from diplomatic opposition to Assad, to
supporting refugees, to cash for groups, to weapons for groups,
to a no-fly zone,” Sherman said. “All of those are on the
table. The secretary laid out what some of those actions would
be.”  Lawmakers were told that “all of the military options are
being presented to the president, along with the risks,”
Illinois Democratic Representative Jan Schakowsky said.  The risks include Syria’s anti-missile and anti-aircraft
defenses, which are more sophisticated than those allied forces
confronted in  Iraq  and Libya, Sherman said. “A no-fly zone is
not a no-casualty option,” he said.  Ground Troops  House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat,
said a response shouldn’t include intervention by U.S. ground
troops in Syria.  “We have to take it to the next step -- that does not mean
troops on the ground,” Pelosi said. “It should be very clear
to President Assad that his behavior, killing his own people, is
outside the circle of civilized human behavior -- that this has
to stop.”  While he has repeatedly used the words “red line” and
“game changer,” Obama hasn’t defined what would trigger more
muscular U.S. action or how his administration might respond to
conclusive evidence that Assad has used chemical or biological
weapons.  In the Syrian government’s first response to the U.S.
findings, Information Minister Omran al-Zoubi said that “the
fabricated and false” allegations “do not have any
credibility,” according to the official Sana news agency. The
regime has said that chemical weapons have been used by
terrorists, its blanket description for the opposition.  U.S. Aid  Kerry announced last week that the U.S. is providing an
additional $123 million to the Syrian opposition, doubling so-
called nonlethal aid, while some Persian Gulf nations send arms
and money. As the administration has pressed at the United
Nations for diplomatic efforts to remove Assad, Obama has
discouraged talk of U.S. military intervention.  In a letter to lawmakers yesterday, the Obama
administration said that there’s evidence of use of sarin nerve
gas that needs to be corroborated. The current intelligence
shows there’s “not sufficient” evidence to take action, it
said.  Speaking with reporters in Brussels today, Michael Mann,
the spokesman for European Union foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton, said that while “any use of chemical weapons in any
circumstances is completely unacceptable,” the U.S.
intelligence assessment “wasn’t completely definitive.”  Faulty Intelligence  Anthony Cordesman, a military analyst at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies, a Washington policy
research group, said “two small uses, if we can’t tie it to
Assad and to the regime, isn’t really a red line.” Kerry told
reporters yesterday there was evidence of “two instances” of
chemical weapons use.  Particularly after the George W. Bush administration’s
embrace of faulty intelligence on weapons of mass destruction in
Iraq, it’s important not to overreact, Cordesman said.  “You need to wait long enough to have a clear context for
action,” he said. “Then the American political debate has to
suddenly realize: If you’re telling the president it’s a red
line and it’s been crossed, you’d better be in the position to
agree to the use of force.”  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron, who described the
“limited but growing evidence” as “extremely serious,” said
today that Britain and its allies are being careful not to
repeat the mistakes over Iraq. Support for the Syrian opposition
should be stepped up, Cameron said, though he said British
troops are unlikely to be sent to Syria.  Insufficient Intelligence  The Obama administration already is under pressure -- from
U.S. lawmakers,  Israel ,  France , the U.K., the Syrian opposition
and Persian Gulf nations seeking Assad’s removal -- to start
providing weapons to the rebels. Some, such as McCain, are
urging creation of a no-fly zone or sending troops to seize
Assad’s chemical and biological weapons before they fall into
terrorists’ hands.  The administration remains reluctant to get involved
militarily in part because it has insufficient intelligence on
the Syrian regime and opposition groups, which include Islamic
extremists allied with al-Qaeda, two U.S. officials said
yesterday. Both spoke on the condition of not being identified
because they have access to classified information on Syria.  The officials said there is no consensus in the U.S.
intelligence community about whether Syria has used small
amounts of nerve gas, with different agencies expressing widely
varied confidence in the assessment. Some agencies had only low
to moderate confidence in the intelligence.  Mass Casualties  One of the officials said there is no evidence of mass
casualties, which suggests that if the Assad regime did use such
weapons, it did so only in small quantities that are very
difficult to trace.  It’s possible, that official said, that a local military
commander may have used small amounts of the odorless nerve gas
to terrorize people, rather than as a weapon of mass
destruction, and it isn’t clear whether any use might have been
authorized by Assad or other top regime officials.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has designated a team of
specialists to look into reports of chemical-weapons use if the
Syrian government grants it “full and unfettered” access,
according to a statement from a spokesman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  