-- Obama Says Women Risk Losing Health Choices in State Battles
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-04-26T15:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/obama-says-women-risk-losing-health-choices-in-state-battles.html
President  Barack Obama  said women
are at risk of losing access to health-care services because of
attacks on Planned Parenthood and efforts to restrict abortion
rights in U.S. states.  Speaking to the annual meeting of Planned Parenthood
Federation of America, Obama said he would fight to keep federal
backing for the organization and maintain abortion rights,
upheld 40 years ago in the U.S. Supreme Court’s landmark Roe v.
Wade decision.  “For many, Planned Parenthood is their primary source of
health care,” Obama said today at the gathering in  Washington .
“No politician should decide what’s best for you.”  Obama’s speech to the group, delayed by a day so the
president could attend a memorial service for the victims of a
Texas fertilizer plant explosion, comes as Republican lawmakers
in more than 40 states have succeeded in passing restrictions on
abortion and at the federal level they are pressing to cut
funding for  Planned Parenthood .  While reaffirming his support for abortion rights and
highlighting the benefits for women in the health-care law he
pushed through Congress, Obama’s address also was an opportunity
to thank Planned Parenthood for its support for his re-election.  “It made all the difference,” Obama said.  Planned Parenthood spent $10 million to help re-elect
Obama, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington-based research group that tracks campaign spending.
The group also backed the Democratic nominee in nine Senate
races. Eight of them won.  In October 2012, a month before the elections, a Washington
Post-ABC News poll showed 52 percent of likely voters trusted
Obama to do a better job addressing women’s issues against 39
percent who thought Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney 
would do a better job, the Washington Post reported.  Among women, the difference was wider, with 55 percent
trusting Obama more than 37 percent of women who picked Romney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  