-- Obama Says U.S. Seeks Confirmation on Syria Chemical Weapons Use
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-04-26T18:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/obama-says-u-s-seeks-confirmation-on-syria-chemical-weapons-use.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
U.S. will seek confirmation along with the  United Nations  that
Bashar al-Assad’s regime in Syria used chemical weapons in that
country’s civil war, reiterating that confirmation would be a
“game-changer” for the U.S. response.  Speaking before a private White House meeting with Jordan’s
King Abdullah II, Obama repeated the language the administration
used yesterday that intelligence agencies have “varying degrees
of confidence” in evidence that chemical munitions were used
against Assad’s opposition.  “The use of chemical weapons, and the dangers that poses
to the international community, to neighbors of Syria, the
potential for chemical weapons to get in the hands of terrorists
-- all of those things add increased urgency to what is already
a significant security problem,” he said.  In his first public remarks since the U.S. disclosed it has
evidence that chemical weapons were used in  Syria , Obama didn’t
specify what action the U.S. might take.  The president is under pressure from from American
lawmakers to take stronger action in Syria following U.S.
intelligence assessments that sarin nerve gas may have been used
in the conflict. The administration has resisted providing arms
to the rebels or taking direct military action.  Abdullah also is pressing Obama to speed resolution of the
two-year-old civil war in Syria, which has pushed more than a
half-million refugees into Jordan. Obama said the crush of
refugees is putting an “enormous strain” on Jordan.  In a letter to lawmakers yesterday, the Obama
administration said that there is evidence of use of sarin nerve
gas that needs to be corroborated. The current intelligence
shows there’s “not sufficient” evidence to take action, it
said.  The U.K.,  Israel  and  France  also have cited evidence of
chemical weapons use. Syrian officials deny that its government
forces used chemical weapons against rebels.  More than 70,000 Syrians have died in the uprising against
Assad that began in March 2011, and an additional 1.3 million
have fled their homes and country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  