-- Ocado Slides as Takeover by Morrison Is Ruled Out: London Mover
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-04-26T16:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/ocado-slides-as-takeover-by-morrison-is-ruled-out-london-mover.html
Ocado Group Plc, (OCDO)  the U.K.’s largest
online-only grocer, fell in London trading after repeating that
any partnership with  William Morrison Supermarkets Plc (MRW)  won’t
involve a takeover or Morrison acquiring a stake.  Ocado slid 1.8 percent to 165 pence after gaining 12
percent yesterday on speculation that Bradford, England-based
Morrison may buy into the business as part of a deal that would
mark its entry into the online grocery market.  The speculation was “very questionable,” said Clive Black, an analyst at Shore Capital in Liverpool, England. “It
wouldn’t be in Morrison shareholders’ interests anyway.”  The  Daily Mail  said April 24 that Morrison was considering
a bid of more than 1 billion pounds ($1.55 billion) for Ocado
Discussions between the two parties that were first disclosed on
March 14 are continuing, London-based Ocado said yesterday in a
statement after markets closed, adding that there is no
certainty that an agreement will be reached.  The basis for the discussions is how Morrison could use
spare capacity at Ocado’s recently-opened second warehouse in
Dordon, central  England , to break into the online grocery
market, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Ocado said last month that the Dordon facility was handling
10,000 to 15,000 orders a week, a tenth of what its main
facility in Hatfield, southern England, handles at peak times.   Ocado’s decline today reduced the company’s market value
to 954 million pounds. Morrison rose 0.4 percent to 286.30
pence.  Lost Time  Morrison is the only one of the four main U.K. supermarket
companies not to offer groceries online and an alliance with
Ocado would represent a way of quickly making up for lost time.  The retailer said last month it would spend 1.1 billion
pounds to start an online groceries business next year, add more
 convenience stores  and revamp existing shops. The online service
will commence in January 2014, regardless of an agreement with
Ocado, it said at the time.  Morrison favors Ocado’s method of delivering food from a
central distribution center, rather than using local stores to
fulfil orders like  Tesco Plc, (TSCO)  J Sainsbury Plc and Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.’s Asda, according to the people, who declined to be
identified because no agreement has yet been reached.  Using a central hub would lead to fewer substitutions of
products, one of the main online shoppers’ irritants, they said.  Morrison has been influenced in its planning by Fresh
Direct, the New York-based online grocer in which it bought a
stake two years ago, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  