-- NFL Jets Draft Quarterback Geno Smith; Manti Te’o Ends Long Wait
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-04-27T04:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/long-nfl-draft-wait-ends-for-manti-te-o-geno-smith-goes-to-jets.html
Geno Smith was taken by the  New
York Jets  with the 39th overall choice in the National Football
League draft, joining a team that has five other quarterbacks on
its roster.  Smith’s selection came one pick after linebacker Manti Te’o
was chosen by the  San Diego Chargers . Smith, from  West Virginia
University , and Te’o, from the  University of Notre Dame , were
passed over in the first round before being taken with
consecutive picks early in yesterday’s second round at Radio
City Music Hall in New York.  Smith was left waiting in the green room adjacent to the
stage for three hours and 33 minutes on the first day of the
draft, one of four players who accepted an invitation to the
first round and was not selected.  “I think it was a test of patience, a test of character,”
Smith told reporters in a conference call.  Smith, who joins a Jets team that already includes
quarterbacks  Mark Sanchez ,  Tim Tebow , David Garrard,  Greg McElroy  and Matt Simms, was a four-year starter at West
Virginia, passing for 11,662 yards and 98 touchdowns in his
college career. He threw for more than 300 yards in a game 17
times.  New Jets General Manager John Idzik said last month that
he wanted to bring in competition to push Sanchez, the team’s
starter for most of the past four seasons who committed an
NFL-high 26 turnovers, including 18 interceptions, last year.  ``I think Geno Smith will be the starter Week 1 versus
Tampa Bay,'' former NFL quarterback  Kurt Warner  said last night
on the NFL Network. ``Mark Sanchez will be there and he will
be holding the clipboard.''  The Jets added guard Brian Winters from Kent State in the
third round.  The  New York Giants  used their second-round pick, the 49th
overall, on defensive tackle Johnathan Hankins of Ohio State. In
the third round, they selected defensive end Damontre Moore of
 Texas A&M .  Huskies Chosen  Connecticut had three players chosen in a seven-pick span
of the third round -- cornerback Dwayne Gratz went to
Jacksonville, linebacker Sio Moore to Oakland and cornerback
Blidi Wreh-Wilson to  Tennessee . Rutgers defensive backfield
teammates Logan Ryan and Duron Harmon both were taken by New
England in the third round.  The three-day draft concludes today with rounds four
through seven.  Te’o, 22, the Heisman Trophy runner-up as college
football’s best player last season, was selected by the Chargers
with the sixth selection of the second round, the 38th pick
overall.  “We thought he was the most instinctive and productive
linebacker in the draft,” said San Diego General Manager Tom Telesco, who traded up to pick Te’o. “We thought in order to
get him we had to be aggressive and go up and do it.”  Heisman Runner-Up  As a senior, Te’o finished second to Johnny Manziel in the
Heisman voting after spearheading a  Notre Dame  defense that
allowed the fewest points of any team at college football’s top
level. Te’o had a team-leading 103 tackles and seven
interceptions as the Fighting Irish went 12-0 and earned the No.
1 national ranking and a spot in the national championship game.  Nagurski Award  Te’o, who received the Nagurski Award as college football’s
best defensive player and the Butkus Award as the nation’s top
linebacker, began facing criticism after Notre Dame was routed
42-14 by the University of Alabama in January’s Bowl
Championship Series title game.  About a week later, it was revealed that Te’o had been
caught in a hoax involving a fake online girlfriend and lied
about it in media interviews during the lead-up to the national
title game. Te’o said he was fooled into believing his fake
girlfriend had died of leukemia in September and didn’t lie
about the situation until December, when he became aware she
didn’t actually exist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  