-- CEO Bans Politics in Review of Australia’s Climate Ambitions
-- B y   M i k e   A n d e r s o n
-- 2013-04-26T02:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/top-climate-adviser-seeks-apolitical-debate-on-australia-targets.html
Australia ’s first review of its
emission-reduction targets will try to sidestep the political
questions surrounding carbon markets, according to the head of
the newly formed Climate Change Authority.  “It’s been a long time since we’ve had a national
discussion on what Australia’s target should be,” Anthea Harris,
chief executive officer of the climate authority, said in an
interview from  Melbourne . “We’ve lost sight of what is most
important. It’s time to refocus the national debate.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s legislation to make emitters
pay for their  greenhouse gases  has been disrupted by opposition 
leader  Tony Abbott ’s pledge to repeal her 2011 Clean Energy Act.
Plunging prices for carbon allowances in the European Union,
which were linked to Australia’s planned cap-and-trade system in
2012, will force Gillard’s Labour government to cut estimated
revenue from the sale of carbon permits, Climate Change Minister
 Greg Combet  said April 17.  Harris, head of the climate authority since its start in
July 2012, has until Feb. 28, 2014, to deliver a final report on
the implications and tradeoffs of achieving longer-term climate
objectives. A separate review of the Carbon Price Mechanism,
which imposes a fixed price on about 350 of Australia’s
largest emitters and shifts to market-based trading in 2015,
is scheduled for 2016, Harris said.  Climate Science  Harris must present preliminary recommendations by October
on whether Australia’s 2020 target of cutting emissions by at
least 5 percent from 2000 levels is sufficient. She will delve
into the science of global  climate change , how Australia can
share its emission-reduction burden with other nations, the role
of imported carbon credits and the economic and social
implications for Australia’s climate approach.  The timing of the first draft, following a general election
in September, is coincidental, she said. The election and politics 
of carbon pricing in Australia can’t stand in the way, Harris said.
The latest Newspoll shows Abbott with a 10 percentage-point lead
over Gillard.  “We are definitely proceeding, regardless of the
election,” she said. “We have a legal obligation. We don’t
have a choice. We are obliged to keep going.”  Abbott said he will introduce a so-called Direct Action
Plan that would commit as much as A$750 million ($772 million) a
year to reward entities that demonstrate the most cost-effective
spending to cut emissions. Harris’s draft report won’t address
Abbott’s proposals, she said.  ‘Highly Unusual’  “It’s highly unusual, and indeed, inappropriate, for any
government agency to model in an alternative government’s policy
while they are still in office,” Harris said.  “Regardless of
who is in government, the whole point of the Climate Change
Authority is to provide policy advice on these essential, large
issues.”  The low price of EU carbon allowances may come up, Harris
said. If Australia moves to a cap-and-trade system as planned in
2015, the price of permits is forecast to track the EU price,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The contract fell to
a record low of 2.46 euros ($3.20) on April 17 after European
lawmakers failed to win support for a plan to reduce an
oversupply of allowances. It closed yesterday at 2.97 euros on
the ICE Europe Futures Exchange in  London .  Australia’s previous modeling has been based on higher
carbon prices, Harris said. The nation began charging a fixed
rate of A$23 a ton in July 2012, and the Treasury had estimated
that prices would be A$29 in 2015. Those assumptions will be
revised in next months’ budget, according to Climate Change
Minister Combet.  Foolish Assumptions  “The lower the price, the lower the impact” of charging
for emissions, Harris said. “We might take that into account.”  Low carbon prices may not last, she said. “2015/2016 is a
long way away. It’s very foolish to assume that today’s low
prices will necessarily apply in the future. It’s just
uncertain.”  Australia’s emission reduction target can’t be raised
unless “the level of global ambition becomes sufficiently clear,
including both the specific targets of advanced economies, and
the verifiable emission reduction action of China and  India ,”
according to the Climate Change Authority reported released
yesterday.  Raising the target to 15 percent would require, among other
things, “an international agreement where major developing
economies commit to restraining emissions substantially,”
according to the report.  It also raises the possibility of a 25 percent cut by 2020,
as well as what Australia should do to curb emissions in
subsequent decades. The nation has a goal of reducing greenhouse
gases by 80 percent as of 2050.  While Abbott has promised to dismantle the Climate Change
Authority, Australia’s 2011 climate law established that if
Parliament vetoes emissions cap legislation,  a “default
limit” may take effect, according to New Energy Finance.  Harris said the default provision would ensure “the show
will go on,” regardless of political disagreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Anderson  in Singapore at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  