-- TOP Oil Market News: WTI Retreats to Pare Biggest Weekly Advance
-- B y   R a j   R a j e n d r a n
-- 2013-04-26T11:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/top-oil-market-news-wti-retreats-to-pare-biggest-weekly-advance.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Crude Retreats to Pare Biggest Weekly Advance Since June  West Texas Intermediate fell for the first time in seven
days amid speculation the biggest weekly advance since June was
excessive.  TOP OIL MARKET NEWS  Bonny Oil Sabotage to Cut Nigeria June Exports to Three-Year Low  Nigeria will ship no cargoes of Bonny Light crude in June
leaving a gap in its loading plans that will curb the country’s
exports to the lowest in three years, people with knowledge of
the matter said.  Oil May Gain Next Week on Projected ECB Rate Cut, Survey Shows  Oil may advance in New York next week on speculation that
the  European Central Bank  will cut its key  interest rate  to a
record low, a Bloomberg survey showed.  OPEC  OPEC to Bolster Exports on Asian Demand, Oil Movements Reports  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
increase shipments by 60,000 barrels a day through to the middle
of May because of rising demand in Asia, according to tanker
tracker Oil Movements.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  JX Shuts Mizushima B No. 2 Crude Unit From March 27-June 8  JX Nippon Oil & Energy plans to conduct maintenance at its
Mizushima B No. 2 crude distillation unit with capacity of
95,000 barrels a day from March 27 to June 8, Akitsugu
Takahashi, senior vice president, says at a news conference in
Tokyo.  Singapore Refining Said to Start Crude Unit After Maintenance  Singapore Refining Co., operator of one of three oil-
processing facilities in the city state, started a crude
distillation unit at its plant on Jurong Island after about a
month of maintenance, said two people with knowledge of
operations.  Shell Scotford Flares Due to Maintenance at Facility  Royal Dutch Shell Plc expects 48 hours of flaring at its
Scotford, Alberta, plant because of maintenance, according to a
message on a community hotline  Suncor Edmonton Refinery Reports Excess Flaring Due to Work  Suncor Energy Inc.’s Edmonton, Alberta, refinery expects
flaring and loud noise due to maintenance at its facility,
according to a message on a community hotline  Neste Oil to Invest EU42 Mln at Porvoo Refinery in Finland  Neste Oil to improve  energy efficiency , operational
reliability by replacing fired heaters with new-generation
heaters at the Porvoo refinery’s crude distillation unit.  Citgo Says Two Cracking Units at Corpus Christi Back Online  Two fluid catalytic cracking units at the Citgo Corpus
Christi refinery are back online, a Citgo official said in an e-
mail.  Consumers’ Co-Op Regina Refinery Delays Coker Restart to May 23  Consumers’ Co-Operative Refineries Ltd.’s Regina refinery
will delay the restart of its 46,000 barrel-a-day coker to May
23, a company spokesman said.  Chevron Richmond Crude Unit Seen Restarting in 3 Days at Soonest  Chevron Corp. will need at least three more days to return
the crude unit at its Richmond refinery to service, a person
with direct knowledge of operations at the plant said.  Exxon Torrance Refinery Operations Normal After Power Failure  Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Torrance refinery was restoring
operations after  power failure  April 21, Gesuina Paras, Co.
spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  Alon Krotz Spring Refinery Shuts Reformer After Fire  Alon USA Energy Inc.’s Krotz Spring, Louisiana, refinery
shut a reformer after a fire broke out in the unit, according to
Blake Lewis, an outside spokesman for the company.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Japan Imports of Iran Oil Drop as Sanctions Are Waived Again (1)  Japan’s crude imports from Iran fell 51 percent in March
from a year ago, as the U.S. waived sanctions barring business
with the Middle Eastern nation citing the declining purchases.  China Refiners Improve Margins as Pricing Driven by Market (1)  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., Asia’s biggest refiner,
profited from crude-processing for the first time since 2011
while PetroChina Co. cut refining losses as China moved to
market-driven pricing of its energy needs.  Asia’s Fuel Oil Losses Widen; Shell Sells  Jet Fuel : Oil Products  Asia fuel oil’s discount to crude is set to widen for the
first week this month, signaling bigger losses for refiners
making residual products. Shell sells jet fuel cargoes at
discounts in Singapore.  Ras Tanura Oil-Tanker Capacity Seen Falling 13% in Latest Week  The combined carrying capacity of  oil tankers  calling at
Saudi Arabia’s Ras Tanura fell 13 percent in the week ended
April 20, vessel-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Pertamina Reissues Tender Seeking Crude From July to September  PT Pertamina, Indonesia’s state- owned  oil company , issued
a third tender to buy low-sulfur, or sweet, crudes for delivery
during July, August and September for its Balikpapan and Cilacap
refineries, a company official said.  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Are Unchanged  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline, jet fuel or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the  Middle East  to
Japan was unchanged at 9.71 U.S. cents yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Barclays’s Redshaw Said to Resign as Head of Carbon, Coal (1)  Louis Redshaw, Barclays Plc’s head of carbon, coal and iron
ore trading, resigned from the London- based bank, two people
with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Norwegian Wealth Fund Gains $37 Billion as Stocks Rally (1)  Norway’s sovereign wealth fund, the world’s largest, gained
219 billion kroner ($37 billion) in the first quarter as stocks
surged amid unprecedented stimulus from central banks to boost
economic growth.  Exxon Profit Rises as Chemical Gains Offset Crude Price Drop (2)  Exxon Mobil Corp., the world’s largest company by market
value, posted an unexpected profit increase that exceeded
analysts’ estimates as widening chemical margins made up for
lower crude production and prices.  Coal Slump Seen Ending on Deal at Four-Year Low: Energy Markets  A deal to sell Australian thermal coal at the cheapest
level since 2009 is raising the prospect of production cuts in
the world’s second-biggest exporter and an end to a slide in
prices.  European Power Trading Falls a Second Year as Banks Drop Out (1)  Power trading in western Europe’s seven biggest markets
shrank for a second year in 2012 as banks and utilities,
including Deutsche Bank AG and EON SE, reduced trading
activities.  Barclays Natural Gas Trader Lally Said to Leave Bank in London  Aaron Lally left his job as a natural gas and power trader
for Barclays Plc in London, according to five people with direct
knowledge of the matter.  OTHER MARKETS  Stocks Fall Before U.S. GDP as Yen Gains on BOJ; Oil Declines  Stocks fell, with European shares trimming the biggest
weekly gain in five months, before a report on the pace of the
U.S. recovery. The yen strengthened as the  Bank of Japan 
maintained its stimulus pledge, while oil dropped.  Canada Bears Arise as Non-Commodity Exports Plummet: Currencies  Within the past five years, General Motors Co. moved the
production of its trucks and Buick LaCrosse sedan in Oshawa,
Ontario, to the U.S. While the 323-horsepower Camaro is still
made in Canada, GM said the next generation of its top-selling
sports car will be built in Lansing, Michigan.  Goldman’s Next 11 Stock Funds Overtake BRICs: Chart of the Day  Jim O’Neill ’s BRICs are getting upstaged by his grouping of
smaller  emerging markets  as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. clients
pour money into the so-called Next 11 countries.  Gold Buyers Throng Indian Stores for Second Week on Rally (3)  Gold consumers in India, the world’s biggest importer,
thronged jewelry stores across the country for a second week on
speculation that bullion may extend a rally after the biggest
plunge in three decades.  China Gold Imports Seen Jumping as Price Slump Lures Buyers (1)  Gold imports by China from  Hong Kong  probably surged this
month as mainland buyers increased purchases after domestic
prices sank to the cheapest in more than 2 1/2 years.  North Korea Threatens South After Rejecting Joint Factory Talks  North Korea threatened retaliation against  South Korea  for
demanding talks aimed at re-opening a jointly-run industrial
park that has been shuttered for more than two weeks.  SPORTS  NFL Draft’s First Round Is Led by Linemen as Jets Grab Milliner  Offensive tackles were the top two picks in the  National
Football League  draft for the second time in the Super Bowl era,
the  New York Jets  picked up a potential replacement for Darrelle
Revis and no running backs were taken in the opening round for
the first time since 1963.  Heat Take 3-0 Lead in Playoffs Over Bucks; Bulls, Grizzlies Win  Ray Allen  scored 23 points and  LeBron James  added 22 to
lead the  Miami Heat  to a 104-91 win at the  Milwaukee Bucks  that
gave the defending champions a three- games-to-none playoff
series lead.  Dee Milliner Receives Rare Welcome From Jets Fans at NFL Draft  Dee Milliner experienced something last night foreign to
many recent New York Jets draft picks. He was cheered as he
entered the National Football League.  Manti Te’o Fails to Get Picked in First Round of NFL’s Draft  The  Minnesota Vikings  passed on Manti Te’o even though they
had a need at linebacker and were the first team in 12 years to
have three picks in the opening round of the National Football
League draft.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       92.98  -0.66  -0.7  Nymex     June
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    102.80  -0.61  -0.6    ICE     June
Gasoil ($/Ton)         861.50  +0.75  +0.1    ICE     June
Gasoline (c/Gal)       279.41  -1.77  -0.6  Nymex      May
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    4.15  -0.01  -0.3  Nymex      May
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    102.41  -0.28  -0.3    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            289.72  -0.45  -0.2  Nymex      May
Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            82.69  -0.1
Gold ($/Oz)          1,462.00  +2.7
MSCI World Index     1,456.74  -0.2
Prices as of 12 p.m. London time  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raj Rajendran in London at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  