-- Horace Mann Abuse Claims Too Old to Prosecute, D.A. Says
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-26T19:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/horace-mann-abuse-claims-too-old-to-prosecute-d-a-says.html
The alleged sexual abuse of
students at  New York  prep school  Horace Mann  took place too long
ago to be prosecuted, Bronx prosecutors said.  Bronx District Attorney Robert T. Johnson, whose county
includes the Horace Mann campus, said in a statement today that
all instances of sexual abuse alleged at the school from 1962 to
1996 fall outside the statute of limitations,  Before August 1996, the cutoff had been five years for all
felonies other than homicides and two years for misdemeanors.
The statute was expanded that month to allow child sex crimes to
be prosecuted within five years after the victim’s 18th birthday
or the case was reported to authorities. The deadline was
eliminated for all class B felonies classified as sex offenses,
Johnson’s office said.  “Neither of these legislative changes provides any
recourse for a prosecution of any act of past sexual abuse at
 Horace Mann  which has currently been reported,” Johnson said.
Reviving a claim after the deadline has passed would violate the
U.S. Constitution, Johnson said, citing  Supreme Court  precedent.  Johnson’s office began a probe of the allegations after
they were reported in the New York Times magazine in June 2012,
setting up a hotline for victims and others, communicating with
Horace Mann administrators and reviewing the school’s abuse
reporting policies and procedures.  Thirty Calls  The office received about 30 calls and conducted more than
60 separate interviews, more than 25 with alleged victims, and
traveled to states including California,  Colorado  and Vermont to
speak with people, Johnson said.  The interviews “reveal a systemic pattern of alleged abuse
beyond what was outlined in the original New York Times magazine
article,” Johnson said. “We received direct information
regarding at least 12 separate alleged abusers. The reported
abuse ranges from what may be characterized as inappropriate
behavior to child endangerment, actual instances of sexual
conduct, sexual intercourse and criminal sexual acts.”  The earliest abuse reported at Horace Mann was said to
occur in 1962 and while the majority of the acts allegedly
happened in the 1970s, there were additional instances reported
from the 1980s and 1990s, Johnson’s office said.  Horace Mann officials and  Paul Browne , a spokesman for the
 New York City Police Department , didn’t immediately respond to
messages seeking comment on the district attorney’s statement.
Thomas R. Kelly, the head of school, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment.  ‘Developmental Unit’  With more than 1,800 students today, the school, located
just east of the  Hudson River , was founded as a coeducational
“experimental and developmental unit” of the Teachers College
of  Columbia University  and became an independent day school for
boys in grades 7-12 in 1947, according to its website. It became
coed again in 1968.  The school is named after Horace Mann, a former U.S.
representative from Massachusetts who played a “leading role in
establishing the elementary school system in the  United
States ,” according to its website. Alumni include former New
York Governor  Eliot Spitzer .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  