-- Morgan Stanley Settles Washington, Abu Dhabi Lawuits
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-26T23:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/morgan-stanley-settles-washington-abu-dhabi-lawuits.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  said it settled
suits brought by investors in two structured investment vehicles
called Cheyne and Rhinebridge,  The investors, led by  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank (ADCB)  and King
County, Washington, also agreed to drop their claims against
Moody’s Investors Service Inc. and Standard & Poor’s, the
world’s largest provider of credit ratings owned by New York-
based  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) , the investors said in a notice filed in
U.S. District Court in Manhattan today.  The plaintiffs claimed the defendants gave the vehicles
inflated ratings in two separate suits filed in federal court in
Manhattan in 2008 and 2009. The rating companies worked with
Morgan Stanley to structure the notes, and their compensation
was based on the notes receiving the desired ratings, the
plaintiffs claimed.  The investors claimed Morgan Stanley was negligent in
conveying ratings that it should have known were inaccurate.  A trial in the  Abu Dhabi  case had been scheduled to begin
before U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin on May 6, court
records show.  “We’re pleased to have settled these cases,” said Mark Lake, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley. Lake declined to provide
any details of the settlements.  “McGraw-Hill has settled the Abu Dhabi and King County
cases without any admission of liability or wrongdoing,” Jason Feuchtwanger, a spokesman for McGraw Hill said. “The terms of
the settlement are confidential.”  Michael Adler , a Moody’s spokesman, didn’t immediately
comment on the settlement.  Samuel Rudman , who represents the investors in both suits,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on the
settlement.  The cases are King County, Washington v. Morgan Stanley,
09-cv-08387; Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank v. Morgan Stanley & Co.,
08-cv-07508, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Blumberg at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net  