-- Moroccan Immigrant Gets Five Years in N.Y. Synagogue Plot
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-04-26T18:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/moroccan-immigrant-gets-five-years-in-n-y-synagogue-plot.html
A Moroccan immigrant was sentenced
to five years in prison for plotting to bomb synagogues in  New
York  City, becoming the second person convicted under state
terrorism laws passed shortly after the Sept. 11 attacks.  Mohammed Mamdouh, 22, was sentenced today before New York
state Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus in  Manhattan . The judge
also ordered three years’ post-release supervision. Mamdouh
pleaded guilty in February 2012 to conspiracy as a crime of
terrorism, criminal possession of a weapon and attempted
possession of a weapon as a crime of terrorism, according to
court records.  Mamdouh and fellow Queens, New York, resident Ahmed
Ferhani, a native of  Algeria , were arrested in May 2011 and
accused of conspiring to bomb synagogues and churches. They were
apprehended following an eight-month undercover operation after
buying two Browning semi-automatic pistols, a Smith & Wesson
revolver, ammunition and an inert grenade, police said.  “Their intent was to create chaos and to intimidate and
coerce Jews living in  New York City , and thereby send a message
far beyond New York,” Assistant Manhattan District Attorney
Gary J. Galperin said. “It would be a warning to stop the
mistreatment of Muslims. This was their cause.”  Terrorism Laws  Ferhani, 28, pleaded guilty in December to 10 counts
against him, marking the first conviction under New York state
terrorism laws passed shortly after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.
He was sentenced to 10 years in prison and five years of post-
release supervision on March 15.  “Today’s sentencing marks the successful conclusion of New
York’s first state-level terror prosecution,” Manhattan
District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr. said in a statement. “Two
convicted terrorists are now serving appropriate state prison
sentences for their unique roles in a failed conspiracy to set
off explosives in New York.”  Prosecutors had recommended Mamdouh serve a five-year
prison sentence on each charge, to run concurrent with each
other along with a 3 1/2-year sentence he is serving for
burglary in Queens. He had faced as much as 25 years in prison
for the most serious count he was charged with at his arrest.  The recommendation was made to acknowledge Mamdouh’s
“lesser role” in the conspiracy, his “diminished
dangerousness” and his expression of remorse, Galperin said.
Ferhani conducted himself as the “mastermind” and moved the
conspiracy forward, and Mamdouh was often not present when
Ferhani spoke with undercover detectives, Galperin said.  ‘Deadly Weapons’  “The evidence shows that Ferhani would have purchased the
deadly weapons that he did, and more, without defendant
Mamdouh,” Galperin said. “There is no evidence to suggest that
defendant Mamdouh on his own would have done so without Ferhani.
Unfortunately, with criminal intent and penal consequences,
defendant Mamdouh joined in the plot and knowingly aided
Ferhani.”  Mamdouh didn’t speak during today’s sentencing. His
attorney, Aaron Mysliwiec, said his client made no financial
contribution to the conspiracy and no arrangements to buy the
weapons. Mamdouh has “genuine remorse” for his crimes and
“doesn’t have hatred in his heart for any race, creed or
religion,” Mysliwiec said.  “At a low point in his life, he made a terrible mistake,”
Mysliwiec said. “He recognizes that and is genuinely remorseful
for that mistake.”  ‘Undisputed Seriousness’  Obus accepted the prosecutor’s sentencing recommendation,
while noting the “undisputed seriousness” of the crimes.  The federal government generally takes the lead in terror
probes and had declined to participate in this and one other
case brought under the same state law, a person familiar with
the matter said.  In 2011, in an unrelated case, New York prosecutors charged
a Manhattan man and alleged al-Qaeda sympathizer with plotting
to bomb government offices and police vehicles in the
metropolitan area as part of an effort to kill federal employees
and military personnel.  Jose Pimentel, who was later indicted, was under police
surveillance for more than a year. He was allegedly motivated in
part by the federal government’s assassination of a U.S.
citizen, Anwar al-Awlaki, who was affiliated with al-Qaeda, and
whose online magazine, “Inspire,” published bomb-making
instructions. Pimentel is scheduled to return to court on June
12.  ‘Stark Reminder’  Mamdouh’s sentencing came the day after New York City Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  said that the two brothers suspected in the
deadly  Boston Marathon bombings  on April 15 planned to drive to
New York and set off explosives in Times Square.  “It is at once fitting and frightening that we are here on
this New York City case only 11 days after the Boston marathon
bombings, a stark reminder that we live in a changed world where
the threat of terrorism is ever real and sometimes carried out
with catastrophic consequences,” Galperin said. “New York
City, prime target that we are, will not cower. Terrorists will
be caught, prosecuted and convicted under due process and the
rule of law.”  The case is New York v. Ferhani, 2461/2011, New York state
 Supreme Court , New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  