-- Stocks, Commodities Slump After U.S. GDP Report
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-04-26T20:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/most-asian-stocks-fall-as-boj-meets-gold-rises-as-won-advances.html
U.S. stocks snapped a five-day
streak of gains, commodities fell and the dollar slid as data
showed the American economy grew less than forecast. Treasuries
rose, pushing 10-year yields down the most in two weeks.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.2 percent to
1,582.24, paring a loss that earlier reached 0.5 percent. Losses
in oil and copper helped lead the S&P GSCI gauge of 24
commodities to a 0.5 percent decline. The greenback retreated
against most of its 16 most-traded peers, losing 1.2 percent to
98.05 yen. Treasuries advanced, sending 10-year yields four
basis points lower to 1.66 percent.  The  U.S. economy  expanded 2.5 percent in the first quarter,
less than the 3 percent forecast in a Bloomberg survey, after
growing 0.4 percent in the final three months of 2012, Commerce
Department data showed. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan final April index of consumer sentiment fell to a
three-month low as Americans grew more pessimistic about the
economy. The BOJ kept its vow to double the monetary base
without outlining any additional measures to reach its inflation
target.  “The GDP number does show that the U.S. economy is still
in a slow growth mode, albeit slightly below expectations,”
Terry Sandven, chief equity strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth
Management in  Minneapolis , said by telephone. His firm manages
$110 billion. “I still like the risk reward for equities but
it’s a ride the highs, buy the dips market. The market’s a
little ahead of itself and frankly we’re due for a pause.”  Earnings Season  The  S&P 500  gained 1.7 percent for the week. Sixteen
companies in the index released results today. Of those that
have reported so far this season, 74 percent topped  profit
projections  while 54 percent missed sales estimates, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Analyst are turning more bullish on corporate earnings.
Profit at S&P 500 companies gained 1.1 percent in the first
three months of the year, according to analysts’ projections
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with last week’s projection
for a decline of 1.1 percent.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  fell 7.2 percent as a second-quarter
earnings forecast from the world’s largest online retailer
missed analyst projections. J.C. Penney Co. jumped 12 percent
after billionaire investor  George Soros  disclosed a passive
stake in the retailer.  Economic Growth  The S&P 500 has  surged  134 percent from a 12-year low in
2009 as corporate earnings beat analyst estimates and the
 Federal Reserve  embarked on three rounds of bond purchases to
spur economic growth. The benchmark gauge is up 0.8 percent in
April. Both the S&P 500 and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
reached record highs on April 11.  Fed policy makers have said they will maintain stimulus
until the labor market improves “significantly.” The economy’s
inability to sustain faster growth means central bankers will
probably affirm a pledge to keep buying bonds when they meet
next week. The Labor Department releases its monthly jobs report
on May 3.  Global stocks rallied this week as speculation mounted the
 European Central Bank  will cut rates when it meets on May 2.
Thirty six of 61 economists in a Bloomberg News survey have
predicted that the central bank will lower its benchmark rate to
0.5 percent from 0.75 percent.  “If you were to pick one thing people are worried about
right now, it’s will or won’t the ECB cut rates,” John Canally,
investment strategist at Boston-based LPL Financial Corp., which
has $373 billion in advisory and brokerage assets, said by
telephone. “Most people think yes, but if the ECB disappoints,
it could be difficult.”  Copper, Oil  The S&P GSCI gauge rose 2.4 percent this week, the biggest
advance since February. Copper declined 1.7 percent to $3.186 a
pound on the Comex. West Texas Intermediate crude fell 0.7
percent to $93 a barrel today.  Gold tumbled from the highest in more than week as the GDP
report crimped demand for the precious metal as a hedge against
inflation. Gold futures lost 0.6 percent to $1,453.60,
retreating for the first time in three days and reversing an
earlier advance of as much as 1.6 percent.  Mining and energy companies led losses in the Stoxx
600, paring the gauge’s weekly  rally  to 3.7 percent. PPR SA, the
luxury-goods company that plans to change its name to Kering in
June, sank 6.7 percent for the biggest drop since 2009 after
revenue trailed analysts’ projections. YIT Oyj slid 8 percent,
its biggest loss in 18 months, as the Finnish construction
company reported earnings that missed estimates.  Possible Cut  “On the one hand, the market got excited about a possible
rate cut by the ECB,” Mark Andersen, who helps oversee $1.7
trillion as co-head of  asset allocation  at UBS AG in Zurich,
said in a telephone interview. “On the other hand, quarterly
results have reminded us that the European economy is not in a
great spot.”  The yen rose at least 0.8 percent against all 16 of its
major counterparts as BOJ Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda and his
fellow board members concluded their second policy meeting this
month. The Japanese currency has strengthened 1.6 percent this
week against the dollar.  The euro weakened 1.1 percent to 127.67 per yen and gained
0.2 percent to $1.303. Sweden’s krona climbed versus all its
major peers except the yen after a report showed  consumer
confidence  exceeded analyst estimates.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slipped 0.4 percent,
trimming this week’s gain to 1.2 percent.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex
slid 0.6 percent and  South Korea ’s Kospi index lost 0.4 percent.
The Shanghai Composite Index sank 1 percent, capping a 2.6
percent retreat in April. China’s financial markets will be shut
from April 29 through May 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  