-- Total Profit Drops 7% on Lower Oil Price as Production Falls
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-04-26T16:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/total-profit-drops-7-on-oil-sands-loss-as-production-falls.html
Total SA (FP) , Europe’s third-largest
oil producer, reported a 7 percent decline in earnings as output
fell and weakening fuel demand pushed down the price of crude.  Profit excluding changes in inventories retreated to 2.9
billion euros ($3.8 billion) in the first quarter from 3.1
billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said today
in a statement. That met the 2.92 billion-euro average estimate
of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Production slipped 2 percent to 2.32 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day as Total suffered the shutdown of a platform in
the North Sea. The effect of lower volumes was compounded by
sliding Brent-crude prices, which averaged $112.61 a barrel in
the quarter, down 4.9 percent as economic stagnation cut demand.  The results were “below our expectations with
disappointing production,” said Alexandre Andlauer, an analyst
at Alphavalue SAS in Paris.  Total retreated 1.4 percent to close at 37.55 euros. The
company will pay a quarterly  dividend  of 59 cents a share,
unchanged from the previous quarter.  Net income slumped 58 percent following a $1.65 billion
writedown for canceling the Voyageur Upgrader project in
 Alberta , which was beset by rising labor costs and a discount on
the price of Canadian heavy crude.  Growth Target  Total has failed to raise quarterly output, when compared
with year-earlier figures, since the last three months of 2010.
Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie has pledged to
boost volumes, targeting production growth of an average 3
percent a year through 2015. Output may reach about 3 million
barrels of oil equivalent a day in 2017.  “We remain confident Total can hit guidance of 3 percent
production growth this year,”  Oswald Clint , a London-based
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote today in a report.
Total has the best exploration assets of any of the big  oil
companies , he said.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  BP Plc (BP/) , Europe’s largest oil
producers, will post lower quarterly profit when they announce
results next week, analysts’ estimates show.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,
the world’s largest oil company by value, yesterday reported
earnings that were little changed as widening profit margins in
its chemicals business made up for lower oil output and prices.  Total’s refining and petrochemicals division posted
adjusted operating income of 410 million euros in the quarter,
compared with a loss of 43 million euros the previous year.
European refining and petrochemicals margins have been
“trending favorably” in the second quarter, the company said.  Elgin Halt  Total’s Elgin platform in the  North Sea  was shut for most
of the reporting period following a natural-gas leak in March
2012. Production resumed on March 9 this year, and is now about
half its level before the incident.  The company’s targeted increase in output is dependent on
the timely startup of new projects, including the Sulige gas
deposit in China and Kazakhstan’s Kashagan field. Total expects
these new ventures to add 160,000 barrels a day. It’s also
investing in shale drilling in the U.S., a refinery in the
 Middle East  and offshore gas in Australia and the North Sea.  The company, which has pledged to explore more aggressively
for reserves, said yesterday it found oil in the Ivoire-1X
exploration well in the western portion of Block CI-100 in  Ivory
Coast .  “We haven’t yet found the elephant we are looking for,”
Chief Financial Officer Patrick de la Chevardiere said today on
a conference call. Explorers use the term “elephant” for giant
discoveries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  