-- Total’s $13 Billion Asset Sales Could Boost Dividend, CFO Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-04-26T16:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/total-s-13-billion-asset-sales-could-boost-dividend-cfo-says.html
Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-biggest
oil company, said the $13 billion of asset sales it’s carried
out to date as part of a divestment plan could translate into
higher dividends.  “The asset sale program is going better than expected and
this will give us additional flexibility to increase the return
to shareholders and fund an intensive capex phase,” Chief
Financial Officer Patrick de la Chevardiere said today on a
conference call after the company reported earnings.  Total has pledged to sell $15 billion to $20 billion of
assets from 2012 to 2014 to raise cash for exploration and
production. The French company is following BP Plc and others in
stepping up sales to bolster its balance sheet while shifting
investment focus.  “Proceeds from asset sales could leave room to increase
the dividend,” de la Chevardiere said. Total still has to close
the sale of the Usan field in  Nigeria  and the southwestern
French gas network TIGF.  Total studied a possible bid for a stake in a Mozambique
 gas field  and decided not to make an offer, the CFO said.  “We see no interest in bidding for these assets,” he
said, citing the risks of cost overruns and project delays.  “As you know Total is not very active on the acquisition
front these days,” he said. “Some time ago we looked at it as
we do most assets for sale in the oil and gas industry. Without
contesting the quality of the resource base we consider there is
too much risk of delay and cost overrun.”  The Rovuma-1 offshore block is being sold by Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. and Videocon Industries Ltd. Fields off
Mozambique’s Indian Ocean coast are estimated to hold enough gas
to meet global demand for two years, attracting investment from
energy companies in  Asia , Europe and  North America .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  