-- Peru Sol Posts Biggest Weekly Drop Since ’09 as Commodities Fall
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-04-26T20:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/peru-sol-heads-for-biggest-weekly-drop-since-2009-on-commodities.html
Peru’s sol tumbled, extending its
weekly decline to the biggest in almost four years, as commodity
prices fell on concern growth in the world’s largest economies
is slowing.  The sol depreciated 0.8 percent to 2.6380 per U.S. dollar
at the close in  Lima , according to prices from Datatec. The sol
slid 1.7 percent this week, the most since October 2009.  “It’s a delayed reaction to the decline in commodity
prices,” Felipe Hernandez, an economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, said in a telephone interview from  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  Commodities extended a three-month drop as the U.S.
Commerce Department reported that the world’s largest economy
expanded in the first quarter less than economists had forecast.
The 14-day relative strength of the exchange rate was higher
than 70, indicating the sol’s decline may be hard to sustain.  The currency’s drop boosts the chance that the central bank
may intervene to strengthen the sol, economists Benito Berber at
Nomura Holdings Inc. and Alejandro Cuadrado at Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA said this week.  “The government has taken a lot of measures to create a
scarcity of dollars,” said Sebastian Brown, a strategist at
Barclays Plc in New York. “Growth was disappointing in
February, and that has left them particularly vulnerable to a
change in global sentiment.”  Peru’s economic activity rose 5 percent in February from a
year earlier after a 6.2 percent increase in January, the
national statistics agency reported this month. The median
forecast of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 5.9 percent.  The yield on the sol bond maturing in August 2020 was
little changed at 3.74 percent today and was up seven basis
points for the week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  