-- Petrobras Quarterly Profit Beats Estimates on Price Gains
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-04-26T23:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/petrobras-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-on-price-gains.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the world’s
sixth-largest oil company by market value, said first-quarter
profit fell 17 percent, less than analysts expected after it
increased fuel production and curbed imports.  Net income  fell to 7.69 billion reais ($3.9 billion), or
0.59 reais a share, from 9.2 billion reais, or 71 centavos, a
year earlier, the Brazilian state-run producer said today in a
statement. Per-share profit topped the 57-centavo average of 11
 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Fuel imports fell 7 percent on year to 376,000 barrels a
day after refinery output rose 10 percent to 2.1 million barrels
a day, the company said. Sales rose 10 percent to 72.5 billion
reais on strong demand for gasoline and diesel. The company has
sold imported gasoline and diesel at a discount since the start
of 2011 as part of a policy to keep inflation in check. The
government controls Petrobras’s board with a majority of voting
shares.  Domestic fuel price increases combined with a drop in
international prices reduced Petrobras’s losses from importing
gasoline and diesel, Oswaldo Telles, an analyst at Banco
Espirito Santo SA, said in a research report before the report
was released. Petrobras increased prices for gasoline and diesel
by 6.6 percent and 5.4 percent, respectively, on Jan. 30, and
raised diesel prices by 6 percent on March 5.  “If oil and oil product prices were to remain at current
levels, we think price gaps would be low enough to be irrelevant
for Petrobras and imports would cease to be a source of
concern,” Telles said. “We forecast a full margin recovery due
to the recent price increases.”  Output Falls  Petrobras sold imported gasoline at a 20 percent loss in
the first quarter, down from 28 percent in the fourth quarter,
Telles said. The discount will narrow in the second quarter
because Petrobras sold at higher prices for part of the first
quarter, he said.  Output fell five percent in the first quarter to 2.55
million barrels a day from a year earlier after the company shut
production platforms for maintenance. Last year Petrobras posted
its first annual output decline since 2004 after new wells in
the so-called pre-salt region failed to offset declines at aging
Campos Basin fields. Production dipped to 2.6 million barrels a
day of oil and natural gas from 2.62 million in 2011.  Capital Investments  Petrobras expects average production this year to match the
2.6 million barrels a day it produced in 2012 after output
recovers in the second half, Chief Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Foster said in the report. The company will start
production on May 28 at a platform at the Lula oil field,
 Brazil ’s biggest field, and add four more units in the remainder
of the year, she said.  Petrobras is investing $236.7 billion over five years to
build refineries, develop deepwater fields and ramp up output
deepwater fields including Lula. Petrobras produces more oil
than any other company in waters deeper than 1,000 feet (305
meters) and is building dozens of platforms and drillships to
expand output.  Brent crude futures, the benchmark for two-thirds of the
world’s oil, averaged $112.61 a barrel during the quarter, down
4.9 percent from $118.45 a year earlier, on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  