-- Peugeot’s French Restructuring Plan Cleared by Court
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-04-26T13:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/peugeot-s-french-restructuring-plan-cleared-by-court.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ,  Europe ’s
second-largest automaker, can move forward with the elimination
of 11,200 jobs and a factory closing after a French court threw
out a legal challenge from two unions to the plan.  “The plaintiffs don’t formulate any precise criticism of
the planned measures and thus don’t prove there is any lacking
element,” Judge Anne Lacquemant said in her ruling today in
Paris rejecting the suits.  Peugeot, which reported a 576 million-euro ($750 million)
operating loss last year, said this week that first-quarter
revenue fell 6.5 percent to 13 billion euros. The European car
market may drop 5 percent in 2013, the automaker forecast.  Peugeot aims to shrink its French  automotive workforce  by
17 percent over the next two years in response to the downward
spiral in European auto sales, which are set to decline in 2013
for the sixth straight year. The automaker is also closing a
factory on the outskirts of Paris, selling assets and building a
strategic alliance with  General Motors Co. (GM)   The CGT and SUD unions sought to block the carmaker’s
restructuring plan on the basis that the severance packages
accompanying the job cuts were insufficient for employees and
that the legal framework for such measures hadn’t been respected
by the carmaker.  “The court decided to only take into account the arguments
of Peugeot,” Marie-Laure Dufresne-Castets, a lawyer for the
CGT, said. “But we will appeal.”  Shares Drop  The shares  declined  as much as 24 cents, or 3.8 percent, to
5.91 euros and were down 1.1 percent as of 3:14 p.m. in Paris
trading. The stock has gained 11 percent this year, valuing the
automaker at 2.15 billion euros.  A meeting to set the financial terms for the reductions is
now set for April 29. Five other unions representing about 75
percent of employees have signed off on the reorganization.  “This decision will allow the pursuit of the project of
industrial reorganization of the group and its implementation
after the next meeting of the works council,” Pierre-Olivier Salmon, a Peugeot spokesman, said by telephone.  Car producers in Europe are planning more than 30,000 job
cuts and five plant shutdowns as the region’s auto demand heads
for a 20-year low. That won’t likely be enough to reduce chronic
excess capacity in the region that  Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive
Officer  Sergio Marchionne  has estimated caused an industrywide
loss of about $7 billion a year.  Aulnay Closing  Chief Financial Officer Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon said
this week that the Aulnay site, scheduled to be shut next year,
may be closed as early as 2013 as strikes disrupt production. A
further contraction in Europe’s automotive market in 2014 may
also make new savings measures necessary, he said.  Manufacturing at Aulnay has been hampered since January
because of a strike by the CGT labor union. The plant is now
making 40 to 50 vehicles a day, Anne-Laure Desclesves, a Peugeot
spokeswoman at the site, said last week. The factory’s daily
capacity is 250 cars.  “The fight goes on,” said Jean-Pierre Mercier, deputy
head of the CGT at Peugeot. “The strike will continue and
intensify at Aulnay and we will multiply actions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  