-- Philippine Bonds Drop This Week as Recent Rally Seen Excessive
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-04-26T03:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/philippine-bonds-drop-this-week-as-recent-rally-seen-excessive.html
Philippine  government bonds  were
set for a weekly decline on speculation a rally that drove the
25-year yield to a six-month low was overdone. The peso fell.  Sovereign bonds, which had advanced in anticipation of a
third cut this year in the rate the central bank pays on its
 special deposit accounts , slumped after Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas lowered it to 2 percent from 2.5 percent yesterday.
The decision was predicted by 12 of 16 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . The  benchmark overnight  borrowing rate was left
at 3.5 percent.  “Some people took profit after the rally in bonds, spurred
by expectations of the SDA rate cut,” said Ryanna Berza-Talan,
a Manila-based  fund manager  at BDO Unibank Inc.’s trust group
that oversees almost $20 billion in assets. “It’s the classic
sell-on-news. At some point yields will become attractive again
to a very liquid market in search of investments.”  The yield on the 6.125 percent notes due October 2037 rose
34 basis points this week, or 0.34 percentage point, and 23
basis points today to 4.13 percent as of 11:38 a.m. in  Manila ,
the highest level since April 11, according to prices from
Tradition Financial Services. It reached 3.7 percent on April
22, the least since the securities were sold in October.  The peso rose 0.2 percent today to 41.182 per dollar,
paring its weekly decline to 0.3 percent, according to Tullett
Prebon Plc. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose seven
basis points to 4.71 percent.  ‘All Data Points’  The reductions in the SDA rate and last year’s decision to
ban foreign funds from the deposit facility haven’t led to
significant outflows, Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo told
reporters yesterday. Bangko Sentral needs to see “all data
points” to determine if more cuts can be made, he said.  Bangko Sentral lowered the rate on $46 billion in the
special deposit accounts by about half-a-percentage point each
in January and March, while holding its benchmark measure at a
record low. The central bank announced on April 18 that it’s
doubling the amount of dollars residents can freely buy and
broadened the range of approved outward investments to spur
capital outflows and slow the peso’s gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  