-- Phone Call Admitteed at Trial of Ex-Goldman Executive
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-26T21:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/phone-call-admitteed-at-trial-of-ex-goldman-executive.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
executive  Fabrice Tourre  lost a bid to bar a recorded 2007 phone
call from a July 15 trial of U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission claims that he misled investors in a collateralized
debt obligation.  U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest in  Manhattan  today
rejected Tourre’s request to punish the SEC for its delay in
turning over the Jan. 17, 2007, recording of a call between
Goldman Sachs saleswoman Gail Kreitman and an employee of ACA
Management LLC by keeping it out of the trial. The SEC claimed
that Tourre tricked ACA into becoming the portfolio selection
agent for the CDO.  The SEC said Kreitman falsely told ACA, after talking with
Tourre, that the hedge fund Paulson & Co. planned to take a long
equity position in the CDO after helping select the assets
underlying the investment. Tourre knew that Paulson really
planned to take a short position, betting the value of the CDO
would drop, the SEC claims.  “This is a mistake in my mind, and we are going to move
beyond it,” Forrest told lawyers for Tourre and the SEC in a
three-hour hearing. “The Jan. 17 call is going to come in.”  The SEC sued Goldman Sachs and Tourre in April 2010. The
investment bank agreed in July 2010 to pay
$550 million to settle the allegations against it. Tourre, 34,
who is studying for a doctorate in economics at the  University
of Chicago , was present in the courtroom today.  Tiffany Galvin, a spokeswoman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, had no comment on today’s hearing.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-03229, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  