-- Debris From 9/11 Plane Found Between Buildings, NYPD Says
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-27T19:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/piece-of-landing-gear-from-9-11-plane-discovered-nypd-says.html
Police said a piece of what
appeared to be landing gear from one of the planes used in the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the World Trade Center was found
behind two buildings in  Lower Manhattan .  The piece of gear, which contains a “clearly visible
Boeing identification number,” was discovered wedged between
the rear of 51 Park Place and the rear of a neighboring
building, 50 Murray Street, the NYPD said in a statement.  The police department is “securing the location as it
would a crime scene” and photographing the piece, according to
the statement. Access to the area is restricted until the city’s
chief medical examiner completes a “health and safety
protocol,” and makes a decision about sifting the soil for
possible human remains, the police said.  The part won’t be removed until the process is complete,
when it will be secured by the NYPD’s property clerk, police
said.  The  Office of the Chief Medical Examiner  is conducting a
health and safety inspection of the area and once that’s
finished, they’ll begin sifting the area for human remains at 8
a.m. on April 30, said spokeswoman Ellen Borakove.  Surveyors for the property owner of 51 Park Place were
inspecting the rear of the building on the morning of April 24
when they found what they thought was damaged machinery and
called police, the NYPD said.  Terrorists hijacked airliners and flew them into the two
towers and the Pentagon and crashed a fourth in a field in
 Pennsylvania , killing 2,996 people. World Trade Center
Properties is an affiliate of Silverstein Properties, which is
developing towers at the site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  State  Supreme Court  at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  