-- Portugal Reaches Agreement With Some Banks on ‘Toxic’ Contracts
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2013-04-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/portugal-reaches-agreement-with-some-banks-on-toxic-contracts.html
Portugal  reached an agreement with
some banks to reduce an approximately 3 billion-euro ($3.9
billion) “toxic” bill from derivative contracts that the
lenders signed with state-owned companies, said Maria Luis Albuquerque, the secretary of state for treasury and finance.  “These agreements will enable the Portuguese state to save
170 million euros in interest payments in coming years and
immediately reduces about 20 percent of potential
responsibilities,” Albuquerque said at a press conference in
Lisbon last night.  The government failed to reach an agreement with  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Banco Santander Totta SA on some of these
contracts and will “proceed to defend its interests by
resorting to the competent courts,” Albuquerque said.
Information about the contracts, which were signed before the
current government took office in 2011, was submitted today to
the Prosecutor General’s Office, she said.  Portugal is preparing new measures to meet the budget-
deficit targets in its 78 billion-euro international aid program
after the country’s  Constitutional Court  on April 5 blocked a
plan to suspend some payments to pensioners and state workers.
The negotiations with the banks about the derivative contracts
started two months ago as the government sought reparation for
financial losses.  ‘Elevated Risks’  “These instruments represent potential financial
responsibilities for the state budget that reach about 3 billion
euros,” Albuquerque said. The contracts typically had positive
short-term effects and “elevated risks” later, she added.
“There were contracts with  interest rates  well above 20 percent
that even in a scenario of higher rates would not have favorable
results for the public companies that signed them.”  Santander Totta, the Portuguese unit of  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,
said in a statement that it’s “sure of its position,” and that
its agreements were signed from 2005 to 2007, when interest
rates were expected to rise. The lender said it made proposals
in negotiations with Albuquerque that were “very favorable” to
the state and were rejected.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman
for JPMorgan in  New York , declined to comment.  The debt of non-financial public companies reached about 30
billion euros in June 2011, up from 14.6 billion euros at the
end of 2004, according to Albuquerque. The government is also
facing a “heavy burden” from contracts signed with public-
private partnership contracts and is re-negotiating these
contracts, she said.  Deficit Goals  The government on March 15 announced less ambitious
deficit-reduction goals as it forecast the economy will shrink
twice as much as previously estimated this year. The government
now targets a deficit equivalent to 5.5 percent of GDP in 2013,
4 percent in 2014 and below the EU’s 3 percent limit in 2015,
when it aims for a 2.5 percent gap. It forecasts debt will peak
at 123.7 percent of GDP in 2014.  Before the court ruling, the government had planned to cut
spending by about 4 billion euros in the three years through
2015. About 80 percent of the 5.3 billion-euro deficit-trimming
effort in the 2013 budget comes from revenue gains, including
3.7 billion euros of tax increases.  Albuquerque ’s statement didn’t name the banks that reached
agreements with the government. She said three other banks are
taking a few more days to decide whether to accept the
government’s terms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  