-- Profit on European Corporate Bonds Over U.S. in Swaps, BofA Says
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-04-26T09:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/profit-on-european-corporate-bonds-over-u-s-in-swaps-bofa-says.html
Investors may profit from a rally
in investment-grade European corporate bonds by selling default
protection while buying insurance on U.S. company debt,
according to Bank of America Corp. credit strategists.  “Euro zone credit benefits in the short term from the
tailwind of declining peripheral yields as  Italy  moves toward
forming a new government and other European countries are able
to kick the can down the road,” Barnaby Martin and Hans Mikkelsen wrote in a note to clients dated April 24. Meanwhile,
“despite superior longer term fundamentals, the U.S. faces near
term challenges as economists appear to systematically
underestimate the growth impact of fiscal tightening during the
first half of this year.”  Italian bonds advanced, pushing two-year note yields to a
record low this week, as data showing European output contracted
more than economists forecast in April boosted speculation the
 European Central Bank  will lower  interest rates . The  U.S.
economy  probably accelerated in the first quarter as  consumer
spending  grew by the most in two years and U.S. businesses
rebuilt inventories, economists said before a report today.  Investors should sell protection on the Markit iTraxx
Europe Index of credit-default swaps linked to 125 investment-
grade companies, and buy protection on the Markit CDX North
American Investment Grade Index, according to the strategists.
The European gauge ended April 25 at 105.5 basis points,
compared with the U.S. benchmark’s 79.1 basis points.  ‘Attractive Valuations’  The strategists estimate that the difference between the
two indexes should narrow to about 15 basis points, a spread
last seen in January. The trade works because credit-default
swaps in  Europe  are more attractive on a spread basis than cash
bonds, “but less attractive valuations in the U.S.,” they
wrote.  The extra yield investors demand to hold U.S. corporate
bonds instead of similar-maturity government debt has fallen 7
basis points to 147 basis points this year through yesterday,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. That
compares with a decline of 17 basis points to 128 basis points
for the BofA Merrill Lynch Euro Corporate Index, the data show.  Additionally, supply of investment-grade debt in Europe is
depressed and retail money flows into high-grade bond funds
recently turned positive, while issuance has picked up in the
U.S. after corporate earnings and inflows have weakened,
according to the strategists.  Europe bond funds had their biggest weekly inflow since
early December for the week ended April 10, and for the
following week “were able to eke out modest inflows,”
according to EPFR Global.  The main risk to the trade is an “escalation of the
European sovereign crisis,” which the strategists dismiss as
less likely in the near term due to increased stability in Italy
and longer time horizons for  Portugal  and  Spain ’s adjustment
programs. The time horizon on their so-called compression trade
is “a few weeks to a month or two” before the U.S. economy and
housing market rebound in the second half of the year, they
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
To contact the editors responsible for this s
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 