-- Provopoulos Says ECB May Never Need to Use Bond-Buying Program
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s
-- 2013-04-26T08:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/provopoulos-says-ecb-may-never-need-to-use-bond-buying-program.html
European Central Bank (EURR002W)  Governing
Council member  George Provopoulos  said a “normalization” on
financial markets suggests the ECB might never need to activate
its Outright Monetary Transactions bond-buying plan.  “Given that in the last few months we have had a kind of
stabilization, normalization, maybe it will never be used,”
Provopoulos said in an interview in Athens yesterday. “OMT has
helped enormously. It is a good thing that we have decided to go
ahead with that, just in case it would be needed.”  Provopoulos’s comments reflect growing confidence among
officials that a market lull inspired by the ECB’s unlimited-
purchase backstop, announced last year, can endure. Despite
political turmoil in  Italy  and a chaotic bailout in Cyprus this
year, Italian 10-year bond yields fell to the lowest since
October 2010 this week.  “I think the worst of the debt crisis is behind us,” said
Provopoulos, who heads  Greece ’s central bank. “This does not
mean that all weaknesses have been dealt with or that the road
ahead will be without bumps. But I think the worst is over.”  Provopoulos declined to comment on current monetary policy
because he is in the so-called “purdah period” of verbal
discipline in the week before an ECB rate decision. Officials
convene in Bratislava on May 2.  Greek Progress  On Greece, Provopoulos said that more stable conditions are
helping his country make “good progress” toward re-balancing
its economy after six years of recession and two international
bailouts.  “What is important is that at some point in the near
future, certainly by mid-2014 and probably sooner, we will see
the economy picking up,” he said. “We could expect some
positive signs even earlier, as the government continues to
implement reforms.”  The  Bank of Greece (TELL)  predicts that the economy will contract
by as much as 4.5 percent this year before achieving moderate
growth in 2014. Provopoulos said that picture hasn’t been
endangered by last month’s bailout of Cyprus, which saw the
country’s parliament reject an initial European Union-backed
plan before an amended version was tabled about a week later.  A precedent-setting tax on  bank deposits  still raised
concerns of contagion in Greece through the banking system,
Provopoulos said.  Cyprus Concern  “In Greece, there was quite a lot of concern, given that
there are close economic and financial links between the
countries,” he said.  As a result, there may have been a net outflow of deposits
from Greek banks in April, as investors worried similar steps
could be applied there, Provopoulos added.  “But I’m expecting a resumption of the steady improvement
that we have seen since June,” he said. “Given that there is
an overall climate of improved psychology, with the government
delivering, deposits will continue coming back.”  Since elections in June 2012 briefly raised the prospect of
a party coming to power that might have pushed Greece out of the
euro, confidence has returned, bringing deposit flows back to
the domestic banking system, Provopoulos said.  “Since the June elections we had deposit inflows of some
20 billion, while the pace of credit contraction has been kept
moderate, at 4 percent,” he said.  No Alternative  Debate over the appropriateness of so-called austerity,
which policy makers across  Europe  have backed since the outbreak
of the financial crisis, has been rekindled as economies from
the U.K. to Spain struggle to grow. Provopoulos said Greece had
no choice.  “Within Greece, the fast pace of fiscal consolidation is
having painful costs, because it means higher unemployment,
lower incomes, lower salaries, higher taxes,” he said. “But,
given our deep initial fiscal imbalances, there was no other
alternative.”  Greece’s austerity measures are part of a wider effort to
put the euro area back on a sounder footing, as are the region’s
decisions to set up a banking union with the ECB’s OMT plan as a
safety net, Provopoulos said.  “How soon growth will return will depend entirely on how
soon Europe, especially the peripheral countries, are able to
re-balance their economies,” he said. “We have made good
progress in that area.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Christos Ziotis in  Athens  at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  