-- Trafigura Said to Hire Former TNK-BP Oil Trader Kollek
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-04-26T13:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/trafigura-said-to-hire-former-tnk-bp-oil-trader-kollek.html
Trafigura Beheer BV hired former
TNK-BP Vice President Jonathan Kollek in Moscow as the company
expands its commodity-trading operations in  Russia , according to
two people with direct knowledge of the appointment.  Kollek will take up a high-ranking position, the people
said, declining to be identified because the information hasn’t
been made public. He will be joined by Elena Lobodina, who
replaced him at TNK-BP in  October  and joins as chief executive
officer of the office of the Russia and Commonwealth of
Independent States, according to one of the people.  OAO Rosneft, the world’s largest publicly traded crude
producer by volume, bought TNK-BP from  BP Plc (BP/)  and a group of
billionaires in March for $55 billion and helped to pay for the
deal with advance payments on long-term contracts with  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN) , Vitol Group and  China . Vitol CEO  Ian Taylor 
said at a conference in Lausanne,  Switzerland , on April 16 that
Rosneft’s expansion may challenge other oil-trading companies.  Trafigura has selected a team of senior managers to develop
its business in the region, the company said in an e-mailed
statement today, without identifying individual hires.  “The potential in Russia is enormous and if we are able to
marry Trafigura’s international expertise with Russia’s
substantial resources and talents, we will create great value
for all involved and substantially contribute to the economic
growth of the local economy,” Mike Wainwright, chief operating
officer of Trafigura, said in the statement.  Rosneft Deals  Rosneft produces about 40 percent of Russia’s oil and is
selling more volumes directly to end-users. The state-owned
company signed supply contracts this year with  Poland ’s PKN
Orlen SA and shareholders in  Germany ’s Schwedt refinery at the
expense of middlemen, Vice President Didier Casimiro said April
23 at a London meeting with investors.  “We can increase the performance and the effectiveness of
these sales by going direct,” Casimiro said.  Gunvor Group Ltd., which until last year was a major buyer
of crude from Rosneft, isn’t a dominant buyer of Urals now for
“good commercial reasons,” CEO Torbjorn Tornqvist said April
17 at the Lausanne conference.  Kollek joined TNK-BP in 2003 and was a senior vice
president responsible for trading and logistics, where he
steered the company’s domestic and international trading
strategy. He declined to comment when contacted by e-mail.  Lobodina worked at BP’s Moscow office as a trading leader
prior to joining TNK-BP. She didn’t respond to an e-mail sent to
her by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  