-- Rand Drops First Day in Four as Central Bank Cautions on Bonds
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-04-26T14:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/rand-drops-first-day-in-4-as-bonds-slide-on-central-bank-caution.html
The rand fell for the first time in
four days after  South Africa ’s central bank said increased
borrowing and accelerating inflation risk sending bond yields
higher.  Rising prices fueled by the currency’s weakness and the
need to finance a widening budget deficit may weigh on
government debt, the  Reserve Bank  said in its Financial
Stability Review yesterday. The nation’s bonds remain vulnerable
to changes in global investor appetite, according to the report.  The central bank’s warning “sparked continued local
selling interest across the spectrum,” Mohammed Nalla, head of
strategic research at  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  in Johannesburg, said
in e-mailed comments today.  The rand depreciated 0.3 percent to 9.1235 per dollar by
4:02 p.m. in Johannesburg, paring this week’s advance to 1.1
percent. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December
2026 dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 6.85
percent following a seven-point jump in the previous two days.
The yield is down three basis points this week.  Foreign investors  sold  846 million rand ($93 million) of
South African bonds yesterday, bringing net sales in the first
four days of the week to 560 million rand and paring this year’s
26.6 billion rand of net purchases, according to data compiled
by JSE Ltd. South  Africa  relies mainly on foreign investment in
stocks and bonds to fund the deficit.  Inflation Target  “The rand outlook is a battle between the strong bond
inflows and the large net current account outflows,”  John Cairns , a currency strategist at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. Though bond inflows are
close to a record for the year, “data for the past few sessions
has been a little disappointing, certainly not supportive of
very strong gains in the short term.”  The rand and higher fuel prices remain the biggest risks to
inflation and will probably push the rate temporarily above the
central bank’s target range of 3 percent to 6 percent, Governor
Gill Marcus said April 19. The  consumer price index  was
unchanged at 5.9 percent in March. The nation posted a current-
account deficit of 6.5 percent of gross domestic product in the
fourth quarter, close to a four-year high.  “Potential rising inflationary pressures stemming from the
weaker rand, the wide current-account deficit and continued
relatively high funding needs could, over time, weigh on
domestic government bond yields,” the Reserve Bank said in the
stability report. “The long end of the curve is also at risk
from weaker global investor appetite for emerging-market debt,
for example, if improving global growth fundamentals entice a
shift from bonds to equity investments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  