-- Treasury Volatility Slump Raises Concern Rally Fading
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-04-26T06:22:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/treasury-volatility-slump-raises-concern-rally-fading.html
Treasury volatility dropped to a
record low and prices were little changed for a third week,
raising concern a rally is losing momentum as analysts forecast
a report today will show economic growth picked up.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index  measuring price
swings fell to 49.39 basis points yesterday in the U.S.,
extending its decline to all-time lows. Gross domestic product
expanded at a 3 percent rate in the first quarter, after growing
0.4 percent in the final three months of 2012, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  “Yields are too low,” said Roger Bridges, who helps
oversee the equivalent of $23.7 billion as head of fixed income
in Sydney at Tyndall Investment Management Ltd., a unit of
Japan’s Nikko Asset Management Co. “The U.S. is in a lot better
shape.” Bridges said he sold Treasury futures contracts earlier
in April as bonds rallied.  Benchmark 10-year  rates  declined one basis point to 1.69
percent as of 7:21 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The price of the 2 percent note due in February
2023 rose 1/8, or $1.25 per $1,000 face amount, to 102 3/4. The
rate was little changed from three weeks ago on April 5.  Treasuries eked out a gain late in Asia trading as Japanese
stocks fell after the nation’s central bank maintained its plan
to double the monetary base in two years, while stopping short
of announcing new measures. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average slid
0.3 percent.  Treasury Returns  Treasury returns are little changed since April 5, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show. U.S. government securities
gained 1.8 percent in the preceding two-month period.  Japan ’s 10-year rate advanced 1 basis point to 0.59 percent
today. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. The nation’s
government bond market has fallen 0.5 percent this month.  While there are signs of a slowdown in growth, including
employment and manufacturing that expanded less in March than
analysts predicted, the economy is still stronger than a year
ago.  GDP growth of 3 percent would compare to 2 percent in the
first three months of 2012. The jobless rate fell to 7.6 percent
in March from 8.2 percent 12 months earlier.  Applications for U.S. unemployment benefits fell to a six-
week low, a sign the labor market is improving after a setback
last month. First-time  jobless claims  decreased a larger-than-
forecast 16,000 in the week ended April 20 to 339,000, Labor
Department data showed yesterday.  Damped Volatility  The  Federal Reserve  is buying $45 billion of Treasuries and
$40 billion of mortgage-backed securities a month to spur the
economy by putting downward pressure on borrowing costs. The
purchases have damped volatility, Thomas Simons, a government-
debt economist in  New York  at Jefferies LLC, one of the 21
primary dealers that are obligated to bid U.S. debt sales, said
yesterday in New York.  Nomura Holdings Inc., another primary dealer, is betting
the difference between 5- and 10-year yields will increase. The
so-called  spread  was 1 percentage point, shrinking from this
year’s high of 1.16 percentage points in March.  The difference may widen as investors demand higher 10-year
rates before the government holds an auction of the securities
on May 8,  George Goncalves  and Jeffrey Young, strategists for
Nomura in New York, wrote in a report yesterday. The U.S. is
also scheduled to sell 3-year notes May 7 and 30-year bonds May
9. It plans to announce the auction sizes May 1.  Curbed Demand  The decline in yields this month curbed demand from
Japanese investors, according to Nomura. The Bank of Japan’s
decision April 4 to expand monetary easing will encourage the
nation’s money managers to seek overseas bonds, Goncalves said
earlier in April.  “There are still no concrete signs of Japanese flows” in
large amounts, the report yesterday said.  Ten-year yields dropped to 1.64 percent this week,
approaching the record low of 1.38 percent.  Mizuho Asset Management Co. trimmed its Treasury holdings
in April as bonds rallied, said Akira Takei, the head of the
company’s international fixed-income department in  Tokyo .  “The respite in the  bond market  might persist for another
month,” said Takei, who helps invest the equivalent of $32
billion at the unit of Japan’s third-biggest publicly traded
bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  