-- Reinhart-Rogoff Rebuttal Says UMass Critics Politicized Debt
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-04-26T12:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/reinhart-rogoff-dispute-umass-criticism-of-debt-study-findings.html
Harvard University economists
 Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff  have defended the technical
aspects of a 2010 paper that’s been cited in the U.S. and Europe
to bolster arguments to drive down budget deficits, saying their
critics have “politicized the issue.”  “Our critics seem to suggest that they can ignore
everything else we have done because we are somehow going around
placing great emphasis on one outlier estimate for growth,”
Reinhart and Rogoff  wrote  in a  New York  Times Op-Ed piece today.
“This is wrong. We have never used anything but the
conservative median estimate in our public discussions.”  The economists acknowledged on April 17 that they had
inadvertently left some data out of their calculations in the
study, in response to a paper released on April 15 by three
researchers from the  University of Massachusetts  at Amherst.
Still, the error didn’t change the basic findings of their
research, they said.  Reinhart and Rogoff today addressed the technical issues
raised by their critics -- Ph.D. candidate Thomas Herndon and
professors Michael Ash and Robert Pollin -- in particular that
they had committed serious errors of  “selective exclusion of
available data” and “unconventional weighting of summary
statistics.”  ‘Significant Weight’  “Growth in a Time of Debt” concluded that countries with
public debt in excess of 90 percent of gross domestic product
suffered measurably slower economic growth. It has been cited by
U.S. House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  and European
Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  in
defense of their arguments against high budget deficits.  The study “included both median and average estimates for
growth, at various levels of debt in relation to economic
output, going back to 1800,” Reinhart and Rogoff said today.
“The paper gave significant weight to the median estimates,
precisely because they reduce the problem posed by data
outliers.”  The risk in the current focus on deficit reduction, say
exponents of more stimulus, is not only that Congress squanders
the chance to borrow at record-low costs to bolster the economy
and make lasting investments for the future.  A  study  by University of California at Berkeley economist
Bradford DeLong and and former Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers  concluded that stimulus could generate so much growth
that it would pay for itself.  Little Influence  The economists’ message has so far had little influence on
the debate in Washington, where lawmakers clash in standoff
after standoff over how to reduce, not expand, the  federal
budget . As much as $85 billion of spending cuts this year
started on March 1 after Congress and President  Barack Obama 
failed to agree on a deal to postpone the reductions or come up
with a like amount of deficit reduction.  Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman  argued that the economy needed
a bigger jolt as Obama, advised by Summers, was putting together
a spending proposal in early 2009, and has continued to be one
of the most vocal critics of fiscal cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  