-- Renault to Make Nissan Micra Compact at French Car Plant
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2013-07-06T16:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/renault-to-make-nissan-micra-compact-at-french-car-plant.html
Carlos Ghosn , Chief Executive Officer
of  Renault SA (RNO) , Europe’s third-biggest carmaker, predicted that
the European car market will probably shrink further in 2014 and
2015 as rising unemployment continues to sap consumer demand.  “I think that 2014, 2015 are going to be at best stable in
Europe,” Ghosn, who also runs Yokohama-based  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  -
- 43 percent-owned by Renault -- said in an interview today in
Aix-en-Provence, southern France.  “More realistically, we may see another decrease, maybe
not as violent, as deep as the ones we have seen for the last
years, but I’m not very optimistic about the situation in Europe
because I don’t see what is going to trigger, to really start
the growth, particularly for the  auto industry ,” the CEO said.
The global auto market will go “from record to record” on
demand in  emerging markets , where the number of car per
inhabitants is much lower than in Europe and the U.S., he said.  European car sales fell to a 20-year low in May as rising
joblessness caused by a recession in the euro region reduced
demand at PSA Peugeot Citroen, Renault, Fiat SpA and General
Motors Co. European political leaders are seeking ways to revive
a shrinking economy weighed down by sovereign-debt crises, with
unemployment in the 17 countries using the euro reaching a
record 12.2 percent in April.  “As long as there is a discussion about deficits, I think
it’s going to be a big weight on the shoulders of the
consumers,” Ghosn said, adding that they will remain skeptical
about the economy growing anytime soon.  Reorganizing Production  Like French rival Peugeot, the carmaker is reorganizing
production as sales plummet in Europe amid a recession. Renault
said in April it will build the next version of Japanese partner
Nissan’s Micra compact car from 2016 in its home country of
 France  in an effort to use excess capacity.  The decision is partly the result of a labor-efficiency
agreement that Renault, based in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-Billancourt, reached in March with unions, it said. The deal
with unions includes cutting the workforce in France by 17
percent and freezing pay this year in exchange for a pledge not
to close any plants in the country for three years.  “We’re trying to be very creative” and we’re “hoping to
cross the crisis without too much damage,” the Renault CEO
said. He expressed confidence that economic slowdowns in
economies like Brazil,  Russia , India and  China , known as the
BRICs, are only temporary, and said the ratio of cars per
inhabitants will continue to rise there.  “The BRICs are here to stay for a very long time,” he
said. There’s one car for two people in Europe, twice as many as
in Brazil and Russia, and just one car per 20 people in China,
he said.  “On the top of that, you have new countries emerging,
 Indonesia , Southeast Asia,” other Latin American countries,
 Africa  and the  Middle East , Ghosn said. “That’s what makes me
optimistic overall for the car industry that we’re going to go
from record to record in terms of global sales, even though the
contributions are going to change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Aix-en-Provence at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in Aix-en-Provence at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  