-- Retail Brokerages Must Seek Revenue From Customer Fees, FCA Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-26T09:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/retail-brokerages-must-seek-revenue-from-customer-fees-fca-says.html
Websites that offer investment
advice should finance themselves by charging customers, rather
than through fees from fund managers whose products are sold
there, the U.K. finance regulator said.  The business model of online retail brokerages must be
regulated so that investors can make “fully informed choices,”
the Financial Conduct Authority said today in a statement on its
 website . Allowing websites to be financed primarily by fees from
the companies whose products they sell risks limiting consumers’
choices because they won’t be offered products from providers
who don’t pay, the regulator said.  “It can be difficult for investors to compare prices and
products available on different platforms,” the FCA said.
“These changes will allow both investors and advisers to
compare the costs of investing through different platforms and
make an informed decision on whether using a platform represents
good value for money.”  The FCA’s predecessor, the Financial Services Authority,
said last year that changes were needed to payment practices
even though they would have a “significant impact” on
platforms’ business models.  The new rules will come into force on April 6, 2014.
Platforms will have an additional two years to move existing
customers to the new charging model.  Hargreaves Lansdown Plc (HL/) , the U.K.’s largest retail broker,
is “pleased to have confirmation of these rules, bringing the
clarity we have awaited for some time,” Ian Gorham, the firm’s
chief executive officer, said in a statement.  “We remain confident in our ability to provide clients
with compelling services and competitive pricing in future,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  