-- Ringgit Strengthens for Third Day on Bets Inflows to Increase
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-04-26T08:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/ringgit-set-for-longest-rally-since-2010-on-bets-inflows-to-rise.html
Malaysia’s ringgit advanced for a
third day, the longest rally in three weeks, on speculation
further monetary easing in Japan and  Europe  will boost demand
for emerging-market assets.  The European Central Bank will cut its benchmark  interest
rate  next week, according to 32 of 54 economists in a Bloomberg
survey before a May 2 review. The Bank of Japan maintained its
unprecedented plan to boost money supply at a policy meeting
today. Jobless claims in the U.S. fell to a six-week low, a
report showed yesterday. Malaysian government bonds were steady.  “Expectations of monetary easing have boosted Asian
currencies,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , an economist at Oversea-
Chinese Banking Corp. in  Singapore . “The U.S. jobless claims
numbers lifted sentiment.  The ringgit advanced 0.1 percent to 3.0314 per dollar as of
4:51 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It has strengthened 0.7 percent in three days and is
little changed for the week. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in exchange rates used to price
options, fell 43 basis points today to 7.98 percent.  Foreign holdings  of Malaysian government bonds climbed 0.7
percent to 130.6 billion ringgit ($43 billion) in the first two
months of this year, according to central bank data.  Bonds Steady  Monetary policy should remain accommodative to boost growth
in advanced economies, the International Monetary Fund said in a
report yesterday. Bank of  Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda
unveiled a plan on April 4 to double holdings of government
bonds in the next two years targeting 2 percent annual inflation.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.26 percent sovereign notes due
March 2018 was steady today and rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, this week to 3.17 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan will use foreign-exchange reserves to buy the bonds
of Southeast Asian countries, the Nikkei newspaper reported
today, without saying where it got the information. The 10-
member Association of Southeast Asian nations comprises Brunei,
Cambodia, Indonesia,  Laos , Malaysia, Myanmar, the  Philippines ,
Singapore, Thailand and  Vietnam .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 