-- Roche’s Skin-Cancer Drug Erivedge Wins EU Agency Backing
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-04-26T11:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/roche-s-skin-cancer-drug-erivedge-wins-eu-agency-backing.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  won the backing of
a European advisory panel for its skin-cancer medicine Erivedge,
a step forward in the Swiss drugmaker’s plan to market the non-
surgical, non-radiation treatment for people with advanced forms
of the most common type of skin cancer.  Roche should be given conditional approval to sell the drug
as a treatment for basal cell carcinoma that has spread or can’t
be treated with surgery or radiotherapy, the London-based
 European Medicines Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for
Human Use  said in a statement on its website today. The European
Commission usually follows the panel’s advice.  European approval will open up a market in which patients
may be easier to reach than in the U.S., said Iris Roth, who is
in charge of sales and development strategies for Erivedge.
That’s because they’re treated by one group of doctors, so-
called  dermato-oncologists , while U.S. patients get treatment
from both dermatologists and surgeons, Roth said in an interview
before the announcement.  “The patients are much more concentrated,” she said.
“It’s really hard for us to project patient numbers. This is a
disease that has been really unrecognized, very little published
about it.”  A pregnancy-prevention plan will be included in the
marketing authorization, the EMA said. U.S. regulators required
a warning to patients of the risk of death or severe birth
defects. Roche, based in  Basel , Switzerland, and partner  Curis
Inc. (CRIS) , based in Lexington,  Massachusetts , won U.S. approval for
Erivedge in January 2012.  The drug had 13 million Swiss francs ($13.8 million) in
U.S. sales in the first quarter this year. Erivedge’s wholesale
price in the U.S. is $7,900 a month, Roth said, declining to
comment on probable European pricing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  