-- Rossi in Talks to Sell Stake in Unit to Private Equity
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-04-26T18:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/rossi-in-talks-to-sell-stake-in-unit-to-private-equity.html
Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3) , Brazil’s most
indebted homebuilder, is in talks with private-equity funds to
sell a minority stake in its Rossi Urbanizadora unit, Chief
Executive Officer Leonardo Diniz said.  The subsidiary, which builds gated communities, has a land
portfolio valued at 6.8 billion reais ($3.4 billion) and expects
to generate 1.8 billion reais in profit over the next 8 to 10
years, Diniz said today in an interview at Bloomberg’s Sao Paulo
office. The shares rallied after he spoke.  The stake sale is part of a plan to reduce net  debt  that
totaled 123 percent of shareholder equity in 2012 to as low as
85 percent by year-end, Diniz said. He didn’t identify any
suitors, beyond saying that the funds were in  Brazil  and abroad,
or elaborate on the status of the discussions. Sao Paulo-based
Rossi created the unit in August as it focuses more on middle-
and high-income home buyers.  “This year we expect to generate profits,” Diniz said.
“Over the next few years, we have a projection that we will
improve the return on equity, and net and gross margins.”  The  shares  rose 2.1 percent to 3.34 reais at 3:06 p.m. in
Sao Paulo, after climbing as much as 3.4 percent and reversing
an earlier decline. Rossi tumbled 28 percent  this year  through
yesterday, almost three times the 9.8 percent drop in Brazil’s
benchmark Bovespa index.  Rossi is carrying debts of 4.5 billion reais, of which 1.5
billion reais is due in the short term, Chief Financial Officer
Rodrigo Medeiros said. The company posted a loss of 206 million
reais in its last fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in  Sao Paulo  at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  