-- Rubber Inventory in Qingdao Rises to Record on Surging Imports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-26T08:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/rubber-inventory-in-qingdao-rises-to-record-on-surging-imports.html
Rubber inventory in Qingdao,
 China ’s main hub for the commodity, rose to a record this month,
as imports gained while demand remained tepid amid slowing
economic growth.  Stockpiles in the bonded zone, where traders store
deliveries before paying duties, climbed to 371,100 metric tons
at the end of this month from 366,900 tons on April 15, Cai
Zhiwei, general manager at the Qingdao International Rubber
Exchange Market, said in an interview. China accounts for 33
percent of global demand and tires represent 70 percent of
natural-rubber consumption in the country, he said.  Rubber slumped into a  bear market  on April 1 as expanding
stockpiles in China signaled easing demand from the world’s
largest consumer. The country’s weaker-than-estimated
 manufacturing  and gross economic product prompted banks
including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to cut full-year forecasts.  “Inventory keeps rising, increasing supply pressure, which
is particularly painful at a time when data showed economic
recovery has been less robust than we expected,” Yan Xinbing,
analyst at Orient Futures Co., said by phone from Beijing.
“Inventory is set to remain at a historic high as production
from  Southeast Asia  and China’s southwest will pick up.”  Qingdao is in Shandong province, where about half of
China’s tire output is from, according to data compiled by Sri
Trang Agro-Industry Pcl,  Thailand ’s largest publicly traded
rubber exporter.  Rubber for delivery in October traded on Tokyo Commodity
Exchange closed at 257.1 yen a kilogram ($2,604 a ton). The
contract for September delivery traded on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange ended at 19,080  yuan  ($3,094) a ton.  Global inventories are set to climb to 2.17 million tons in
2014, the highest in 13 years, as production exceeds consumption
through next year, London-based industry adviser The Rubber
Economist said earlier this month.  Deliverable stocks  of natural rubber jumped 24 percent this
year to 121,936 tons on the Shanghai exchange, the highest level
since February 2010, bourse data showed.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  