-- Trucker JSL Driven to Port Contract for Growth: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-04-26T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/trucker-jsl-driven-to-port-contract-for-growth-corporate-brazil.html
JSL SA (JSLG3) , Brazil’s biggest trucking
company, is considering bidding on government port contracts to
accelerate growth, boost profits and cut costs on cargo from
Volkswagen AG car parts to  Vale SA (VALE5)  iron ore.  The company is seeking port projects where complementary
investments such as industrial facilities and productivity gains
can generate a return of 15 percent, Chief Executive Officer
Fernando Antonio Simoes said. JSL, based in Mogi das Cruzes,
Brazil, can augment government-mandated returns by leasing
infrastructure and land around ports and by handling the
seaborne shipments of cargo it already trucks from factories to
the harbor, he said.  An overhaul of port rules and new railways in the world’s
largest coffee, sugar and ethanol exporter may provide JSL with
investment opportunities as the government raises the estimated
returns on infrastructure projects to lure companies. JSL
expects that the higher return targets and the opportunity to
expand its services will boost growth beyond the company’s
forecast of 18 percent annually.  “We see clear synergies with existing concessions,”
Simoes, 45, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s Sao Paulo
office. “It’s a great opportunity for a service provider.”  Share Surge  JSL, the biggest logistics provider in  Brazil  by revenue,
has almost doubled in Sao Paulo trading since its April 2010
initial public offering. The company  trades  at 28 times
estimated earnings for 2013, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with ratios of 19 and 18 for freight
operators Log-in Logistica Intermodal SA and All America Latina
Logistica SA, respectively.  Shares of JSL have  rallied  13 percent this year, compared
with a 4.6 percent drop for the Bovespa Small Cap Index. Seven
analysts rate the stock a buy, while six say hold and one
recommends selling, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  JSL is capable of reaching 15 percent returns on port
projects because it also has long-term contracts with
automobile, food, pulp and steel exporters, saidMario Bernardes Jr., an equity analyst at Banco do Brasil SA.  “They can get exactly that because of the portfolio they
have in logistics,” Bernardes, who rates the stock the
equivalent of neutral, said in a telephone interview from Sao
Paulo. “The company ends up being able to cross-sell for
various solutions.”  JSL said in a regulatory statement last night that first-
quarter gross revenue rose 22 percent from a year earlier to
1.18 billion reais.  $65 Billion  President Dilma Rousseff’s ports bill, part of a plan to
lure $65 billion of investments to expand harbors, roads and
railways, will allow companies such as JSL to offer shipping
services from their own terminals.  Under the measures scheduled for a final congressional vote
next week, logistics companies operating their own ports will be
able to secure returns of as much as 18 percent after
investments in the hub’s surroundings and cost cuts are
considered, said Marcos Vendramini, Brazil transportation
director at Los Angeles-based  Aecom Technology Corp. (ACM)  That
compares with a government target of 8.3 percent returns for
port licenses.  “The sector will definitely improve with these measures,”
Vendramini said in a telephone interview from Rio de Janeiro.
“It will open the sector up to companies from other industries
like JSL.”  The biggest risk for JSL in running a port would be its
lack of experience, Vendramini said.  “The operation of a port is another culture,” he said.
“It has its own rites and is not a well-oiled machine.”  Road Contracts  Failure to sell road contracts in January because of return
targets that investors considered too low is leading the
government to set higher goals, saidBernardo Figueiredo, head
of the government’s logistics company, known as EPL. In the case
of a road concession that the government failed to sell in
January, the return target is being raised to 15 percent from
5.5 percent, he said.  “The government is conscious of the fact that it’s limited
operationally,” Figueiredo said at an event in Sao Paulo on
April 16. “All of the programs launched since August, including
roads, railways, airports and ports, will be done in
partnerships with the private sector.”  Brazil is also sweetening the projects by increasing
funding from the national development bank, known as BNDES, to
as much as 80 percent in some cases, Figueiredo said.  The plan to use its experience in logistics to get into
ports will help JSL maximize profits as it seeks to continue
growing, Banco do Brasil’s Bernardes said.  “The company has many more positive points to be explored
than risky points,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  