-- Russia Considers $5 Billion Rostelecom Stake Sale, Shuvalov Says
-- B y   I r i n a   R e z n i k   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-04-26T11:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/russia-considers-5-billion-rostelecom-stake-sale-shuvalov-says.html
Russia  may sell a controlling stake
in telecommunications operator OAO Rostelecom for at least $5
billion as early as this year, said First Deputy Prime Minister
 Igor Shuvalov .  “I think it would be right for the government to sell its
entire stake this year, to sell it as a whole,” Shuvalov, who
oversees Russia’s privatization program, said in an interview in
Moscow this week. “The company has a lot of accumulated
problems, but we think a controlling stake could be sold for a
minimum of $5 billion.”  A decision will be made “by or during autumn,” he said.  The government plans to raise 427 billion rubles ($13.6
billion) through state asset sales this year to reduce its role
in the economy. Most of the proceeds will go to the companies
for investment. Stakes in diamond miner OAO Alrosa, airline OAO
Aeroflot and VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest bank, may be
among the year’s biggest sales.  Rostelecom’s addition to the 2013 privatization plan was
proposed by the Federal Property Management Agency earlier this
month, as state-run VTB acquired Russian wireless assets from
 Tele2 AB. (TEL2B)   VTB may resell Tele2 Russia to Rostelecom in six to eight
months once the state-run operator completes a merger with its
parent, OAO Svyazinvest, according to a note from  Renaissance
Capital , a Moscow-based investment bank, at the time of the
deal. Their networks combined would form Russia’s fourth-biggest
nationwide mobile operator.  The antitrust watchdog would welcome Rostelecom’s
acquisition of Tele2 Russia to create a new national mobile
operator, Interfax reported yesterday, citing  Igor Artemyev , the
head of the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service. The government holds
about 55 percent of Rostelecom and will hold about the same
amount after the Svyazinvest merger.  Rostelecom gained 0.7 percent to 112.19 rubles as of 3:39
p.m. in Moscow, giving it a market value of $10.5 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Reznik in Moscow at 
 ireznik@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  