-- Rutgers Coaching Abuse Scandal Fails to Deter Rally: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-04-26T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/rutgers-coaching-abuse-scandal-fails-to-deter-rally-muni-credit.html
Debt of Rutgers University is
gaining the most since May even after a coaching abuse scandal
roiled New Jersey’s largest public college and added to its risk
of a credit downgrade.  Securities of the eighth-oldest U.S. college are benefiting
from the longest rally in 20 years in similarly rated municipal
bonds. The school fired its men’s basketball coach this month
after video showed him kicking players and hurling epithets.
Moody’s Investors Service called the issue a “credit negative”
that may curb donations. It put Rutgers on review for a rating
cut in November because of debt it may take on as it acquires a
health-sciences university.  Still, the extra yield on Rutgers bonds over AAA munis has
shrunk about 25 percent since November, and is close to an 11-
month low, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Investors want New
Jersey debt apart from the state’s general obligations as well
as the higher relative yields, said Michael Pietronico, chief
executive officer of Miller Tabak Asset Management in New York.  Benchmark local issues offer “yields so painfully low that
investors are going to overlook those and try and get a little
extra yield by going down a notch or two on the credit
spectrum,” said Pietronico, who oversees $910 million of munis.  Merge Ahead  Founded in 1766 and based in New Brunswick, about 42 miles
(68 kilometers) southwest of  Manhattan , Rutgers has more than
58,000 students on three campuses. It’s set to merge with the
University of Medicine & Dentistry of New Jersey July 1. Moody’s
rates Rutgers’s $1.2 billion of debt Aa2, third-highest.  Munis graded AA, the same as Rutgers, have earned 1.3
percent this year, compared with 1 percent for AAA benchmarks,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. AA bonds also beat top-
rated munis in 2012 and 2011, for the longest winning streak
since 1992.  “Typically a state university, a flagship university, is a
good credit story,” said Phil Condon, who manages $26 billion
of munis at Boston-based DWS Investments. “It’s supported by
the state government, has a brand and has strong
matriculation.”  School Investigation  The school is investigating how the basketball program
managed claims of abusive behavior by the coach, Mike Rice,
after Rutgers suspended and fined him four months ago instead of
firing him, Moody’s said in a report this month. Rutgers fired
Rice April 3. Athletic Director Tim Pernetti resigned two days
later. University President Robert Barchi has stayed on.  Pietronico said Rutgers will emerge more quickly from its
coaching scandal than Pennsylvania State University, where
former President Graham Spanier was ousted over the Jerry Sandusky child sex-abuse scandal. The school has the same
Moody’s rating as Rutgers.  “This is not Penn State,” Pietronico said. “This is not
a situation where the credit will be weakened because of
potential law suits.”  Rutgers faces the threat of a credit downgrade because of
how the university handled the abuse claims, which may cause
donor support to “wane” as the school investigates the issue,
Edith Behr, a Moody’s analyst in New York, said in the report.  ‘Credit Negative’  “These events are a credit negative for Rutgers because
they draw criticism from national media and public officials,
raise questions about governance and management practices at the
university, and strengthen the possibility of government
investigations and possible legal actions,” Behr wrote.  “We are optimistic that we will preserve our credit
rating,” Steve Manas, a Rutgers spokesman, said in an e-mail.
“We are confident that the university will move beyond these
transitory matters without any long-term negative effects on our
financial position.”  Even with a potential rating cut, investors are demanding
less additional yield on Rutgers debt, using BVAL pricing
analysis.  Rutgers bonds callable in May 2020 and due four years later
are valued at a yield spread of about 0.8 percentage point above
benchmark debt, compared with about 1.1 percentage points Nov.
20, the day before Moody’s placed the school under review for
downgrade.  The difference was as low as 0.73 percentage point last
month, the narrowest since May.  Internal Grade  Investors are looking to pad returns with 20-year general-
obligations yielding  3.89 percent , below the 52-year average of
about 5.9 percent, a Bond Buyer index shows.  Miller Tabak has an internal grade on Rutgers two levels
below what the rating companies assign, Pietronico said.  While the school’s yield spreads have narrowed, Rutgers
debt gives investors an alternative to New Jersey’s general-
obligation credit or debt repaid with state revenue that’s
allocated annually by the legislature, he said.  “If we’re getting compensated for that A1 rating that we
have internally, we’ll go ahead and buy the bonds,” Pietronico
said. “Rutgers is a name we own and we’re comfortable owning
it.”  Issuers led by the Iowa Finance Authority, which is
offering $1.2 billion of tax-exempt revenue debt, plan to sell
about $3.6 billion of long-term munis next week, the slowest
period since March, Bloomberg data show. Proceeds of the Iowa
sale will finance a fertilizer facility.  Ten-year benchmark munis yield  1.77 percent , close to a
three-month low. Still, the tax-exempt bonds are cheaper than
comparable-maturity Treasuries, which yield  1.71 percent .  The yield ratio between the two securities, a measure of
relative value, is about  104 percent , compared with the five-
year average of about 100 percent. The higher the ratio, the
less expensive munis are compared with federal debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  