-- SAC Capital Said to Give Clients More Time on Withdrawals
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2013-04-26T16:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/sac-capital-said-to-give-clients-more-time-on-withdrawals.html
Steven Cohen’s SAC Capital Advisors
LP is giving investors more time to decide whether to pull money
from its hedge funds, as they await approval of the firm’s
record insider-trading settlement with regulators.  Clients will have until mid-August to tell SAC Capital if
they want to withdraw, three months later than previously
required, according to a person with knowledge of the plan. They
will be able to get 50 percent of their money in each of the
third and fourth quarters, said the person, who asked not to be
named because the information is private.  “We are hopeful that the next few months will bring
greater clarity surrounding the resolution of pending regulatory
matters,” Tom Conheeney, president of  Stamford , Connecticut-
based SAC Capital, said today in a statement. He didn’t provide
details on the fund redemption terms.  The firm oversees $15 billion, with more than 60 percent
belonging to Cohen and other employees. SAC last month reached a
$602 million settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission of claims the firm and one of its units profited from
illegal tips about a drugmaker received by former portfolio
manager Mathew Martoma. A federal judge has signed off on the
accord, pending approval of a separate case unrelated to SAC.  Two Options  SAC in February said investors could delay submitting
redemption notices until May and redeem a third of their money
in the second, third and fourth quarters. That offer still
stands, though they now have the option to wait until August.  Before the changes in February, clients could redeem 25
percent of their assets from the firm each quarter.  Even with the eased redemption terms, SAC clients pulled
$1.68 billion from the hedge-fund firm in the first quarter.  SAC’s settlement is conditional on a pending appeals court
ruling in an SEC settlement with Citigroup Inc. In the Citigroup
case, the court will decide whether the  New York  bank can
resolve the agency’s allegations without admitting wrongdoing.
As part of its settlement with the SEC, SAC and its affiliates
neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  