-- Samsung Starts Galaxy S4 Sales in Latest Challenge to Apple
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-04-26T04:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/samsung-starts-galaxy-s4-sales-in-latest-challenge-to-apple.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  began
selling the Galaxy S4 smartphone today, releasing its new
flagship model in the company’s home market of South Korea
before a global rollout to challenge  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  The handset, which faces limited supply as Samsung
struggles to keep up with early orders, also starts sales in
Hong Kong today, while outlets in  Australia  and the U.S. will
begin selling it tomorrow.  The S4, with a 5-inch screen and 13-megapixel camera, is
thinner and lighter than its predecessor and also includes new
software that responds to gestures and facial movements. Kim
Sang Soo, 35, bought the S4 at an SK Telecom Co. store in Seoul,
opting for the device over Apple’s handset released last year.  “The biggest issue for me with the iPhone was a short
battery life and slow Internet,” said Kim. “Why Galaxy S4 over
the previous one? Because it’s the newest.”  Samsung, which reported record profit today, is counting on
the Galaxy S4 to help it extend a lead in the global smartphone
market.  The Suwon, South Korea-based company captured a third of
the market in the first quarter, with shipments of smartphones
surging 56 percent to 69.4 million units in the three months
ended March 31, according to data released by Strategy
Analytics.  Apple iPhone shipments rose 6.6 percent to 37.4 million
units in the period, the slowest pace ever.  Samsung’s sales have been so strong that the company, which
supplies more than half the mobile dynamic random access memory
chips used to run smartphones, may buy the semiconductors from
rival  SK Hynix Inc. (000660)  to keep up with demand.  High Demand  “With the flagship Galaxy S4 model likely to be in high
demand, provided there are no major component shortages, Samsung
should continue to deliver strong smartphone volumes,” Neil Mawston, executive director of Strategy Analytics, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Limited supplies and delays in getting inventory into
stores led two top U.S. wireless carriers to push back their
release dates.  “Some countries are seeing supply shortage in the initial
launching stage because of stronger-than-expected global
orders,” Kim Hyun Joon, vice president of Samsung’s mobile
communications business, said today. “The situation will ease
soon.”  U.S. Delays  The restricted supply kept the device from going on sale as
planned on T-Mobile USA Inc.’s website.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  also
pushed back its on-sale date, with sales online starting today,
while retail stores will offer the handset when inventory
becomes available, the carrier said.  Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S. carrier, doesn’t plan to
make the Galaxy S4 available until May 30. The staggered rollout
differs from Apple’s tightly controlled iPhone releases.  The phone is getting a  mixed reception  from reviewers,
which may hinder Samsung’s ability to build a buzz around it.
AllThingsDigital’s Walt Mossberg said the Galaxy S4 software is
“especially weak,” while Bloomberg News’s  Rich Jaroslovsky 
called the Galaxy S4 “soulless.”  David Pogue at the  New York  Times said Samsung was
“playing it safe” while Mashable’s Christina Warren called the
S4 the  best smartphone  based on Google Inc.’s Android software.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  