-- Sanofi Halts Vial’s Consulting Role Amid Probe of Cahuzac
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2013-04-26T08:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/sanofi-halts-vial-s-consulting-role-amid-probe-of-cahuzac.html
Sanofi (SAN)  said a consultant to Chief
Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  is no longer advising the
company after authorities searched his office at the drugmaker
as part of a tax probe of a former French minister.  Investigators probing former Budget Minister Jerome Cahuzac
are looking into his dealings with Daniel Vial, a lobbyist and
consultant to the pharmaceutical industry, the Le Parisien
newspaper said today. Authorities are looking into whether an
offshore bank account held by Cahuzac contained money he
received from drug companies, the newspaper said.  “Under a mutual agreement, the consulting mission of Mr.
Vial was suspended, so that he can dedicate himself to his
matters,” Jean-Marc Podvin, a spokesman for Paris-based Sanofi,
said in an e-mailed statement to  Bloomberg News  today.  Vial, reached by telephone, also confirmed that the
agreement had been suspended for a limited period and said he
would spend his time defending his position.  Cahuzac resigned as budget minister March 19 over
allegations that he held an secret offshore bank account. After
denying before parliament that he held the account, he said
April 2 the denials were untrue. Judges charged him with  tax
fraud . After the resignation, President  Francois Hollande 
required ministers to divulge their assets and income sources.  Prosecutors are looking into whether the money in Cahuzac’s
account in the 1990s came from drug companies as payment for his
influence with public officials, Le Parisien said.  Cahuzac and Vial met at the end of the 1980s, when Cahuzac
worked for the Health Ministry on pharmaceutical policy, the
Journal du Dimanche newspaper reported April 21. After leaving
the government, Cahuzac set up a consulting firm, and Vial
directed work his way from drug companies, the newspaper said.  Vial’s home and office at Sanofi were searched to see if
the two men continue to do business together, Le Parisien said.  Gilles August, a lawyer for Cahuzac, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  