-- Schaeuble Says Germany to Help Spain With Joint Investment Plan
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-04-26T22:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/schaeuble-says-germany-to-help-spain-with-joint-investment-plan.html
German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said he plans to set up a joint program with Spain to
spur investment in Spanish companies, helping Prime Minister
Mariano Rajoy’s government to overcome recession and record
unemployment.  Schaeuble, addressing members of his Christian Democratic
Union party in Berlin late yesterday, said that he’ll use a
meeting in Spain on Monday with Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos to push for a program that sidesteps the European
Commission. If it works, Schaeuble said he was “pretty sure”
it could serve as a model for other countries scarred by the
crisis in the euro area.  “I’ll suggest, after having spoken with businesses and the
banks, let’s not wait for the commission,” he said. “Let’s
have a bilateral program right away. How can we in  Germany 
promote investment and financing of small and medium enterprises
in Spain in a partnership to advance more quickly?”  The plan, announced on the same day that Rajoy said he was
seeking a two-year extension to meet European Union deficit
rules, is further evidence that  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
government is adapting its crisis stance as the 17-nation euro
area confronts a second year of recession. While not disavowing
austerity, Merkel’s government is showing a greater degree of
flexibility.  “Of course, you have to react to economic developments, we
do so in Germany,” Schaeuble said. “We are not bureaucratic,
we are not stupid.”  Economic Reality  Schaeuble signaled understanding for Spain’s call for more
budget leeway, suggesting that Germany will support Rajoy’s
push. The commission has already done so. “If the economy
deteriorates, you don’t reinforce the economic downturn through
deeper cuts,” Schaeuble said.  Germany has shifted fiscal policy in accordance with
changing economic reality before, and doing so now “is not all
that new,” he said. All the same, the decision to grant more
time to meet targets is a matter for the commission, he said.
The euro’s guiding rules as laid out in the European Stability
and Growth Pact “provides this flexibility,” he said.  “If a member country needs more time to fulfil the
objectives, the commission must consider: does this country do
what it needs to do?” Schaeuble said. “And if it does, it can
say: ‘well, then you need a bit more time if that’s what the
economy is like.’ This is a matter for the commission.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  