-- Schneiderman Won’t Seek Damages From Ex-AIG CEO Greenberg
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-04-26T23:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/schneiderman-won-t-seek-damages-from-ex-aig-ceo-greenberg.html
New York  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman told a court he won’t pursue damages against ex-
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  Chief Executive Officer
Maurice “Hank” Greenberg in a lawsuit dating back to 2005.  The state will still seek a court ruling banning Greenberg
from participating in the securities industry or serving as an
officer or director of a public company, according to a letter
New York Solicitor General Barbara Underwood sent yesterday to
the clerk of the New York State Court of Appeals.  Greenberg in the appellate court case is challenging the
attorney general’s legal standing to seek damages for allegedly
fraudulent reinsurance transactions. Underwood’s letter said it
was sent in response to an inquiry by the court as to how
Greenberg’s settlement of a federal shareholder lawsuit would
affect the appellate case.  “Attorney General Schneiderman feels strongly that
individuals in the financial services industry who perpetrate
fraud, no matter how wealthy or powerful, must be held publicly
accountable, and that is why we believe justice will best be
served by proceeding to a long overdue trial of Mr. Greenberg as
quickly as possible,”  Damien LaVera , a spokesman for the
attorney general, said in an e-mailed statement.  2005 Lawsuit  In the 2005 suit, the state accused Greenberg and former
AIG Chief Financial Officer Howard Smith of using sham
transactions to distort New York-based AIG’s reported financial
condition.  David Boies , Greenberg’s lawyer, said in an e-mail
yesterday he was pleased with the attorney general’s decision to
drop the damages claims. Boies said in a letter to the appeals
court today that the case should be dismissed entirely, arguing
that the claims Schneiderman is now pursuing were long ago
abandoned.  “NYAG has had eight years, millions of pages of documents,
and unlimited depositions to try to develop evidence of
appellants’ alleged wrongdoing,” he wrote. “Nothing is served
by further prolonging this case.”  This month, a federal judge in New York approved a $115
million settlement between  AIG shareholders  and former AIG
executives, including Greenberg and Smith.  The plaintiffs, led by a group of Ohio public pension
funds, sued in 2004 and 2005, claiming the defendants misstated
their involvement in alleged market-division and bid-rigging
schemes and also misled investors about an alleged accounting
fraud at AIG that resulted in the company’s restating $3.9
billion of  earnings . A later restatement reduced the amount to
$3.4 billion.  The lower-court case is State of New York v. Greenberg,
401720-2005, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal court house at +1-
   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 