-- SEC’s White Said to Push for Lifting Ban on Hedge-Fund Ads
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-04-26T22:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/sec-s-white-said-to-push-to-lift-ban-on-hedge-fund-advertising.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission chairman Mary Jo White is pushing to adopt a rule
allowing hedge funds to advertise in a move consumer advocates
say could fail to protect unsophisticated investors, according
to two people familiar with the matter.  White, who became SEC chairman on April 10, has suggested
the commission pass the  existing plan  without major changes and
add additional protections later, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the deliberations are private. The
approach would placate congressional Republicans who have
complained the SEC has slow-walked the rule, which was required
to be completed by July 2012.  Approving the regulation would allow White to make good on
a promise she made in her Senate confirmation hearing to
prioritize rules mandated by the Jumpstart Our Business Startups
Act, which was designed to boost capital-raising and job
creation. At the same time, it could anger advocates for small
investors and at least one Democratic commissioner.  “It would be a very bad sign -- a cause for grave concern
about the substance of the issue and process of how investor
protection concerns are addressed,”  Barbara Roper , director
investor protection at the Washington-based  Consumer Federation
of America , said in a phone interview. Roper said she discussed
the rule with White and other SEC officials on April 23.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment on
White’s plans.  “Aggressive Effort”  The SEC’s five-member commission has been divided on the
rule since last year. The two Republican commissioners have said
the proposed rule should be completed as written. Democratic
Commissioner Luis A. Aguilar said this month that a rewrite is
needed because the proposal was an “aggressive effort to
exclude pro-investor initiatives.”  The rule would lift the ban on “general solicitation,” or
using advertising to market investments in  hedge funds , startups
and other firms. The ban dates to the passage of the first
federal securities laws in 1933, said Brian J. Lane, a partner
at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher and former director of the SEC’s
corporation finance division.  Inappropriate Risks  The prohibition was designed to protect small investors
from taking inappropriate risks. Only more sophisticated
investors, or people with annual income greater than $200,000
and net worth greater than $1 million excluding their home
value, can make such investments.  These types of investments are exempt from the requirement
to file financial results with the SEC. They raised $905 billion
in 2010, surpassing the amount of capital raised by any other
type of offering, including public debt, according to a February
 paper  by SEC economists. Sixteen percent were done by hedge
funds, 15.3 percent by technology companies and 9.8 percent by
health care firms, according to the SEC.  State securities regulators say such offerings were the
most common product leading to enforcement  actions  in 2011.  White’s plan would allow the commission to dispatch with a
rule she has described as a first priority. “The SEC needs to
get the rules right, but it also needs to get them done,” she
told the Senate Banking Committee last month.  Taking a final vote also would alleviate congressional
pressure. In August, the SEC approved an initial plan 4-1, with
Aguilar voting against it. The full commission has to vote again
on the final proposal for it to take effect.  House Republicans  have pressed the SEC to finish the rule,
using a hearing last week to ask Commissioner Elisse B. Walter,
63, why it wasn’t done yet.  Last year, the SEC’s proposal sparked internal conflict
because staff had recommended adopting the rule immediately
without seeking public comment. Doing so would have allowed the
SEC to finish the rule on the time frame prescribed by Congress.  Anti-Investor Legacy  Former Chairman  Mary Schapiro  backed away from that
approach after receiving complaints from Roper and others, and
worrying she would be “tagged with an anti-investor legacy,”
according to internal SEC e-mails published by the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee. The switch angered
Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher, a Republican appointee, who
said he was “furious” about the change.  An SEC advisory committee composed of investors unanimously
 recommended  in October that conditions be added to the proposal.
For example, the committee said the rule should outline how
companies verify an investor is wealthy enough to participate in
these types of less regulated investments. Those steps could
include relying on information from brokers, banks or
accountants, the committee said.  ‘Reasonable Steps’  The JOBS Act gave the SEC the authority to include in the
rule “reasonable steps” to verify an investor is qualified.
The SEC’s August proposal would give companies flexibility to
determine those steps and didn’t prescribe a uniform method for
complying with the regulation.  The  American Bar Association  supports that approach. The
Managed Funds Association, which lobbies for hedge funds, has
urged the SEC to consider a person qualified to participate if
he or she invests a minimum of $500,000.  Aguilar, 59, who voted against the SEC’s August proposal,
has called for the SEC to start over and include more
protections for small investors.  “A re-proposal that allows for a real discussion of
reasonable alternatives is the only path forward that will
adequately address investor protection issues,” Aguilar said on
April 16.  Bolstering Protections  White has said internally that rewriting the rule would
take too long, according to one of the people. One compromise
she has offered would involve asking the commission to pass a
“concept release” seeking outside views on how to bolster
protections without obligating the SEC to implement them.  Gallagher and Commissioner Troy A. Paredes support passage
of the current proposal. It’s unclear how Walter, who said last
week that the rule could lead to more fraud, will vote on it.  “The important thing to do here is to analyze the investor
protection issues that are present and see if some of them can
be addressed,” Walter told the House committee last week.
“They really do revolve mostly around who the investors are,
rather than how they are solicited.”  In a letter posted this week on the SEC’s website, Roper
and two other investor advocates cautioned White against moving
ahead with the current rule proposal. The letter was signed by
Roper, Lisa Donner of Americans for Financial Reform and Brandon Rees of the AFL-CIO’s Office of Investment.  “Some have suggested that the commission could implement
the general solicitation rule based on the current proposal and
pursue comment on the appropriate investor protections
separately,” the letter states. “Think of the precedent that
would set -- rushing forward with the aspects of the rule
supported by industry while offering the faint possibility that
the commission might one day get around to addressing the
concerns raised by investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  