-- SEC Foreign Payment Rule Challenge Declined by Court
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-04-26T18:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/sec-foreign-payment-rule-challenge-declined-by-court.html
A challenge to a  U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission  rule requiring oil and mining companies
to disclose payments to foreign governments must first be
handled by a lower court, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
 Washington  said.  The SEC disclosure regulation comes under a section of law
requiring review by the  U.S. District Court , not the appeals
court, which has jurisdiction over many commission rules, the
court said in a ruling today. The regulation, issued under the
2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform law, covers about 1,100 public
companies engaged in oil, natural gas or mineral extraction.  Anticipating the dispute over venue, the  American Petroleum
Institute , the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  and two other trade
groups that sued in the appeals court lodged a similar, pending
complaint in district court in Washington.  “Their caution proved prescient,” U.S. Circuit Judge
David Tatel wrote for the three-judge panel.  “This may not be the most efficient way to resolve such
cases,” Tatel said. “But it is Congress’s job, not ours, to
determine ‘the court in which review of agency decisions may
occur.’”  The contested regulation implements a provision of Dodd-
Frank aimed at increasing transparency and thwarting corruption
by giving citizens of resource-rich countries information about
their governments’ oil and mineral revenue.  Eugene Scalia, of Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP, an attorney
for the plaintiffs, didn’t immediately reply to a phone message
and e-mail requesting comment on the decision.  Free Speech  The oil industry group and the other plaintiffs argued the
regulation will hobble companies’ competetiveness and violate
their free speech rights by forcing them to publicly disclose
information that can be used to influence political events in
other countries.  The ruling is important for supporters of the disclosure
rule because it ensures that “the case will be heard in the
court that Congress intended,” said Ian Gary, senior policy
manager for extractive industries for Boston-based  Oxfam
America , which intervened in the case in support of the SEC and
raised the issue of jurisdiction in its filings.  The district court “has more flexibility to review the
copius administrative record,” than the appeals court, Gary
said in an e-mailed statement.  The SEC is “ready to present our case to the district
court,”  John Nester , a commission spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement.  The case is  American Petroleum Institute  v. U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, 12-1398, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  The district court case is American Petroleum Institute v.
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 12-cv-01668, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  