-- Serb Central Bank Bought 15 Million Euros to Temper Dinar Gains
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-04-26T15:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/serb-central-bank-bought-15-million-euros-to-temper-dinar-gains.html
Serbia ’s central bank bought euros
for the second consecutive day to slow gains in the dinar as the
currency traded at its highest levels in 13 months.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije purchased 15
million euros ($19.5 million) from commercial banks to “smooth
the dinar’s intraday swings,” the bank said on its website
without disclosing any further details.  Four currency traders in Belgrade, who asked to remain
unidentified in line with the policies of their banks, said the
central bank was buying euros at levels of about 110.75 and
110.85 to the euro, after the unit gained 0.41 percent on the
day. The dinar traded at around 110.50 to the euro before the
central bank began buying, they said.  The dinar traded at 110.6910 at 5:16 p.m. in Belgrade,
rising for a fifth session. It has gained 3.2 percent against
the euro over the past six months, making it  Europe ’s top
performer during the period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  It was the fourth intervention this year, with the National
Bank of Serbia purchasing a total of 30 million euros to slow
the gains in the dinar. The currency’s strengthening was
triggered by the European Commission’s decision to recommend
that European Union member states begin membership talks.  The central bank said today it has no intention of changing
the  exchange-rate  regime for the dinar as the managed float
allows it to “maintain” the independence of monetary policy
and “adequately respond to” economic troubles, allowing a
more-efficient adjustment through changes in the dinar exchange
rate avoiding any significant cuts in pensions and wages,
according to an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  