-- Serbian Date for Talks at Hand If Kosovo Deal Applied, Fule Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-04-26T11:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/serbian-date-for-talks-at-hand-if-kosovo-deal-applied-fule-says.html
A date for  Serbia  to begin talks on
joining the European Union is “within reach” if it starts
implementing an accord with Kosovo, improves the judiciary and
increases the fight against corruption, Enlargement Commissioner
Stefan Fule said.  Serbia must retain its “degree of commitment,
determination and vision shown” as it moves toward getting a
date to begin talks to join the bloc, Fule said at a conference
in Belgrade today. “The possibility of opening talks has come
within your reach.”  The government needs to implement the Kosovo deal “so that
member states can feel comfortable enough to decide in June on
unconditional opening of negotiations,” said Fule, who
recommended on April 22 that Serbia be given a date.  Serbia and  Kosovo  initialed an EU-mediated agreement in
principle on improving ties and have until June 15 to work out
power sharing in telecommunications and energy and make progress
in clarifying the fate of people missing on both sides since the
1998-99 war during the breakup of  Yugoslavia .  Under the accord, Serbs in Kosovo have until April 30 to
agree to implement the deal and in turn, the government will
consider calling a referendum in Serbia if Kosovo Serbs agree to
accept the outcome of the ballot.  Opposition Protests  The deal with Kosovo, which Serbs consider the cradle of
their nation and culture, has met with pockets of opposition
inside parts of Serbia.  Aleksandar Vulin, the head of the government’s Office for
Kosovo, stepped down this week in protest over the agreement,
while hundreds of opposition activists protested in central
Belgrade in front of parliament today as lawmakers discussed the
document.  “Even if the government falls, we won’t change the
decision on the accord because that was the only possible
decision,” Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic said at a
news conference in Belgrade yesterday.  The ruling coalition dominated by Vucic’s former
nationalists and Dacic’s Socialists has a sufficient majority in
parliament to endorse the Kosovo accord.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  