-- South Korean Citizens Begin Leaving Gaeseong Zone for Seoul
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-04-27T12:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/south-korea-pulls-out-of-joint-factory-after-north-rejects-talks.html
South Korean workers began to
return to  Seoul  today from an industrial park jointly run with
North  Korea .  About 11 of the 175 South Koreans at the Gaeseong
industrial zone had come back, while 115 more were expected to
follow, after an agreement was reached with North Korean
officials on the logistics of the pullout, according to a text
message from the South’s Unification Ministry today. The
remainder are expected to return by April 29.  South Korea’s President Park Geun Hye made the
“inevitable” decision to pull her citizens from Gaeseong,
which shut down more than two weeks ago, Unification Minister
Ryoo Kihl Jae told reporters yesterday in Seoul. North Korea
ignored a deadline to accept an offer for talks on reopening the
facility.  The Korean peninsula has been on edge since February, when
Kim Jong Un’s regime detonated an atomic bomb in defiance of
United Nations sanctions and then threatened preemptive nuclear
strikes against its enemies. The North on April 8 recalled its
workers from Gaeseong, the last point of inter-Korean exchange
and an important cash source for the impoverished nation.  North Korea  said late today that the South has
“responsibility for the total closure” of Gaeseong, saying it
would damage the southern nation, according to the official
Korean Central News Agency, which cited a spokesman for the
General Bureau for Central Guidance.  ‘Serious Measures’  North Korea’s National Defense Commission had threatened
“final, decisive and serious measures” against the South’s
“ultimatums,” according to a statement on KCNA. The South
should withdraw its citizens from Gaeseong if it’s concerned
about their wellbeing, KCNA said.  The complex, about 10 kilometers (6 miles) north of the
demilitarized zone between the two countries, employs more than
53,000 North Koreans at 123 South Korean companies. North Korea
generates $100 million in annual profits there, while  South
Korea  makes quadruple that amount, according to Yang Moo Jin, a
professor at the University of North Korean Studies in Seoul.  North Korea on April 3 blocked South Koreans’ access to the
complex, only allowing them to leave. With all traffic from the
South into Gaeseong banned, the South Koreans have had to endure
a shortage of food and medical resources. One citizen returned
to Seoul April 25 after suddenly falling ill, the Unification
Ministry said.  ‘Limited’ Options  With the U.S. and South Korea calling on North Korea to
return to negotiations, Park’s options to pressure Kim are
“very limited,” said Kim Young Yoon, a research fellow at the
Korea Institute for National Unification in Seoul.  South Korean companies operating in Gaeseong have urged the
government to break the impasse and seek damages from the loss
of operations. The association representing them today called
for talks between the two sides.  The South Korean government should provide compensation to
help the companies revive their businesses and allow workers to
revisit the complex on April 30, the association said in an e-
mailed statement.  The Export-Import Bank of Korea revived its pledge to
expand financial aid to companies running plants in the complex,
the state-run lender said in an e-mailed statement today,
without giving details. The bank has provided 300 billion won
($270 million) of aid, including lower lending rates and higher
ceilings on loans, it said.  Inexperienced Leader  Kim, who took over as leader in December 2011 following the
death of his father,  Kim Jong Il , has rebuffed international
inducements to abandon nuclear weapons development. The Obama
administration has rejected claims North Korea possesses the
ability to launch nuclear-armed ballistic missiles, while
warning that Kim’s inexperience raises the possibility of
errors.  The North is ready to conduct another nuclear test “at any
moment,” South Korean Defense Ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok
said April 23. North Korea vowed to strengthen its nuclear
program after a U.S. State Department report found the country
guilty of “egregious and pervasive” human rights abuses.  North Korea said it will hand down a verdict on a detained
American citizen accused of crimes against the state, the
official Korean Central News Agency reported today.  Pae Jun Ho, who entered North Korea’s Rason City on Nov. 3
as a tourist, will face judgment in the  Supreme Court  after
admitting to the charges, KCNA said, without citing a source for
the information. The U.S. had no immediate comment on the KCNA
report, Beth Gosselin, a spokeswoman at the State Department in
 Washington , said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  