-- Bunds Advance on U.S. Growth Report, Bets ECB Will Lower Rates
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-04-26T16:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/spanish-bonds-advance-on-bets-ecb-will-lower-rates-bunds-rise.html
German bunds rose, pushing down
yields toward the lowest in nine months, as data showing the
U.S. economy grew less than forecast in the first quarter
boosted demand for the safest assets.  Spanish 10-year yields extended the biggest weekly decline
since September on speculation the European Central Bank will
cut its key interest rate at next month’s policy meeting. Bunds
also gained after a U.S. government report showed the world’s
biggest economy expanded less than economists forecast in the
first quarter, boosting demand for safer assets.  Italy ’s bonds
advanced for a fourth week after the nation auctioned 8 billion
euros ($10.4 billion) of six-month bills at a record-low yield.  “It’s helped by the ECB, it’s helped by the U.S. data,
there’s no doubt about that,” said Marc Ostwald, a London-based
rates strategist at Monument Securities Ltd.  German 10-year bund  yields fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.21 percent at the 5 p.m. market close in
 London . The rate slid to 1.19 percent on April 23, the lowest
since July 24. The 1.5 percent securities due February 2023 rose
0.29, or 2.90 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 102.69.  Spain’s  10-year yield  slid one basis point to 4.28 percent,
extending this week’s decline to 34 basis points. Italian 10-
year yields were little changed at 4.06 percent, having dropped
16 basis points since April 19.  U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 2.5 percent annual
rate, lower than forecast, after a 0.4 percent fourth-quarter
advance, Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington .
The median estimate of 86 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a 3 percent gain.  European Rates  The ECB will reduce its  main refinancing rate  by 25 basis
points to 0.5 percent at its meeting on May 2, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Italian Treasury sold six-month bills at an average
yield of 0.503 percent, the Bank of Italy said. That’s down from
a rate of 0.83 percent at a previous auction of similar-maturity
debt on March 26.  “If the ECB don’t deliver anything there will be negative
price action in the periphery,” said  Michael Markovich , head of
global interest-rate research at Credit Suisse Group AG in
Zurich.  Spain’s bonds pared their advance after Prime Minister
Mariano Rajoy said he would seek two more years to tackle
 Europe ’s widest budget deficit.  Spanish Cabinet  Spanish securities gained 7.3 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bonds returned 0.9 percent, and Italian debt earned 3.6 percent.  The cabinet in  Madrid  today approved a plan to cut the
shortfall of 10.6 percent of gross domestic product back to
within the European Union limit of 3 percent by 2016 instead of
2014 as demanded by the European Commission, according to an e-
mailed statement.  Volatility on Finnish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by those of Germany and Ireland,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Norway’s sovereign-wealth fund, the world’s largest,
reduced its holdings in Austrian, French and Japanese government
bonds in the first quarter.  Norway increased its investments in government bonds from
the U.S., the Netherlands and  Germany  in its $728 billion
Government Pension Fund Global, the Oslo-based investor said
today. Government securities made up 59.7 percent of the fund’s
fixed-income investments at the end of the quarter and were the
worst-performing fixed-income assets, returning 0.6 percent, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  