-- Stanford Joins University of Chicago Selling Into Tax-Free Rally
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-04-26T14:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/stanford-joins-university-of-chicago-selling-into-tax-free-rally.html
Stanford University and the
University of Chicago, among the 10 highest-ranked U.S. schools,
plan to offer tax-exempt revenue bonds amid the biggest rally
this year in the $3.7 trillion municipal-debt market.  The California Educational Facilities Authority will issue
about $240 million of new tax-free debt on behalf of Stanford,
according to offering documents released today. The Bay Area
university, near the headquarters of  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , will also issue $150 million of taxable securities itself.  In a similar deal, the University of Chicago plans to offer
$200 million of taxable bonds and borrow another $150 million
via the tax-exempt market through the Illinois Finance
Authority, according to preliminary official statements.  Munis have gained about 0.9 percent this month, the most
since November, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.
Education bonds sold through the municipal market have earned
even more, returning about 1 percent in April, the data show.  Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings are all expected to give Stanford their top grades,
according to the offering documents.  The school is among a dwindling breed. Amherst College in
 Massachusetts , one of the wealthiest U.S. liberal-arts
institutions, and Williams College, another elite private school
in the state, both lost their AAA ratings from S&P over the past
year.  Endowment Gains  The value of Stanford’s endowment increased 3.2 percent to
$17 billion in the fiscal year ended Aug. 31, according to the
school. The proceeds from the sale will pay for capital projects
or refinance debt used for previous initiatives.  A Stanford bond sold by the California agency in April 2010
and maturing in April 2040 traded this week at an average yield
of 3.08 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
about 0.15 percentage point more than benchmark AAA munis due in
27 years, the data show.  The University of Chicago has the second-best rating from
Moody’s and Fitch, and the third-highest from S&P. In the latest
U.S. News & World Report National University  rankings , the
Chicago school, founded in 1890 by John D. Rockefeller, is tied
for fourth with Columbia University in New York. Stanford is
tied for sixth with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  