-- Statoil Offers Oseberg Crude; Nigeria Exports Drop to 3-Year Low
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-04-26T16:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/statoil-offers-oseberg-crude-nigeria-exports-drop-to-3-year-low.html
Statoil ASA failed to sell North
Sea Oseberg crude for a second day. There were no bids or offers
for Forties and Russian Urals blend.  Nigeria will ship no cargoes of Bonny Light crude in June,
leaving a gap in its loading plans that will reduce the
country’s exports to the lowest in three years, people with
knowledge of the matter said, asking not to be identified as the
information is confidential.  North Sea  Statoil offered Oseberg for loading May 17 to May 19 at a
premium of $1.10 a barrel to Dated Brent, the same level as
yesterday, without finding a buyer, a Bloomberg survey of
traders and brokers monitoring the Platts pricing window showed.  There were no bids or offers for Forties for the first time
since April 17, according to the survey. It traded yesterday at
40 cents less than the benchmark.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. Forties loading in
10 to 25 days widened by 12 cents to a discount of 40 cents a
barrel to Dated Brent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brent for June settlement traded at $103.11 a barrel on the
ICE Futures  Europe  exchange at the close of the window, compared
with $102.51 in the previous session. The July contract was at
$102.88 at the same time today, a discount of 23 cents to June.  Mediterranean/Urals  There were no bids or offers for Urals crude for a fifth
day, the Platts survey showed. The grade traded at a discount of
40 cents to the benchmark in the Mediterranean and minus $1.20
in northwest Europe on April 19.  The Urals discount to Dated Brent in the Mediterranean was
unchanged at 28 cents a barrel, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
In northwest Europe, the  discount  was at $1.13 a barrel compared
with $1.18 at yesterday’s close. That’s the narrowest since Feb.
1, the data show.  Russia’s seaborne Urals exports are set to fall by 12
percent in May, according to a final loading program obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Loadings from Primorsk will be 4.806 million metric tons
and 2.2 million tons from Ust-Luga, the plan showed. Urals
exports from Novorossiysk are set to be 2.96 million tons as
well as 320,000 tons of Siberian Light, according to the plan.  West Africa  Benchmark Nigerian Qua Iboe blend rose 5 cents to $3.21 a
barrel more than Dated Brent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Nigeria will export 61 cargoes in June totaling 54.7
million barrels, or 1.82 million a day, according to loading
plans obtained by Bloomberg News. That compares with 76
shipments, or 2.1 million barrels a day, scheduled to be
exported next month and is the lowest since March 2010, when
daily exports were 1.81 million barrels, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Equatorial Guinea plans to keep exports of its Ceiba crude
in June unchanged from May at two cargoes, a loading program
obtained by Bloomberg News shows.  The country will ship three consignments of its Zafiro
blend, a schedule on April 17 showed. The plan for Aseng, the
nation’s third export grade, wasn’t yet available.  Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. bought about
600,000 barrels from BP Plc of Nigeria’s Okono crude for loading
in the first half of June via tender, according to three people
with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be identified as
the information is confidential.  PT Pertamina,  Indonesia ’s state-owned oil company, issued a
third tender to buy low-sulfur, or sweet, crudes for delivery in
July, August and September for its Balikpapan and Cilacap
refineries, a company official said, asking not to be identified
because he isn’t authorized to speak to the media.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  