-- Stripping Dimon of Chairman Title Is ‘Nuts,’ Langone Says
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-04-26T19:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/stripping-dimon-of-chairman-title-is-nuts-langone-says.html
Kenneth Langone, the billionaire
co-founder of  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , said  Jamie Dimon  is one of the
best U.S. business leaders and should keep his dual role as
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s chairman and chief executive officer.  “He should be both,” Langone, 77, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television, calling it “nuts” to consider splitting
Dimon’s  titles . “He’s probably the finest CEO across any
business in America.”  Dimon, 57, has come under increasing pressure to give up
the chairman’s job since New York-based JPMorgan lost more than
$6.2 billion on a derivatives bet last year. The board of
directors has stood by him, urging  investors  to vote against a
shareholder proposal to name a separate chairman at next month’s
annual meeting.  “I love Jamie, I know him well personally, I love him,”
said Langone. The so-called London Whale episode and the bank’s
subsequent  record annual profit  proved that JPMorgan was a great
bank, he said. “Go to  Europe  where they split them up. Where
are the results? Where are the economic results?”  Directors of JPMorgan have said that Dimon’s dual role
remains the “most effective leadership model” for the company.
A similar proposal last year failed with 40 percent of the vote.  Best Management  “Who’s the best-run bank in America today?” Langone said.
“Certainly you’d have to say JPMorgan and  Wells Fargo. (WFC) ”  JPMorgan is the biggest U.S. bank by assets, and San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo & Co. is the nation’s largest home
lender. Langone said he owns JPMorgan warrants.  The bank’s trading loss was tied to  credit derivatives 
amassed by Bruno Iksil, a U.K. trader in the chief investment
office who was dubbed the London Whale because his positions
were so big.  A CEO who doubles as chairman doesn’t need to hold himself
accountable because the rest of the board’s directors will do
that, Langone said.  “I’ve got nine people in a room or seven or five or
whatever the number is,” Langone said. “They’ll fire me if I
do the wrong thing.” Directors who don’t have the courage to do
that shouldn’t be on the board, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  