-- Swiss Bank Considers Selling Cross-Border Business of Hyposwiss
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-04-26T13:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/swiss-bank-considers-selling-cross-border-business-of-hyposwiss.html
St. Galler Kantonalbank AG (SGKN) , which
is majority-owned by the Swiss canton of  St. Gallen , said it may
sell part of its Hyposwiss private bank after reviewing its
cross-border business.  “St. Galler Kantonalbank is reviewing the future strategy
of its cross-border wealth-management business,” the bank said
in an e-mailed statement. “This includes the possible sale of
individual units of Hyposwiss subsidiaries.”  Switzerland, the world’s largest center for cross-border
wealth, is trying to shed its image as a haven for undeclared
funds amid a crackdown on tax evasion by the U.S. and European
governments. Switzerland is in talks with the U.S. to resolve a
Department of Justice probe of at least 11 Swiss financial
firms, including Zuercher Kantonalbank, suspected of helping
Americans hide money from the  Internal Revenue Service .  Neither St. Galler Kantonalbank nor Hyposwiss have been
cited by the  Justice Department  as part of its investigation.
Swiss cantonal banks are mainly owned by regional governments
and are backed by state guarantees.  Hyposwiss, established in 1889, had 7.2 billion Swiss
francs ($7.6 billion) under management at the end of December,
down from 9.1 billion francs two years earlier, according to a
 2012 report , and has offices in Zurich, Geneva and Lisbon.
Hyposwiss, which reported a net outflow of almost 1 billion
francs last year, plans to focus growth on its onshore Swiss
business and on Russia, according to the report.  Swiss prosecutors opened an investigation in January last
year after they were alerted by a  law firm  that was offered data
stolen from Hyposwiss. A former “external” bank employee was
arrested, the office of the federal public prosecutor said in
February last year. The stolen data related to a dispute between
Russian billionaires Oleg Deripaska and  Vladimir Potanin ,
according to a report in Handelszeitung newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  