-- U.K. Stocks Retreat as Rio Leads Mining Companies Lower
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-04-26T16:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/u-k-stocks-retreat-as-rio-leads-mining-companies-lower.html
U.K. stocks  fell for the first time
in four days, led by a selloff in mining companies, as base
metals declined and U.S. economic growth trailed forecasts.  Rio Tinto Group and  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  retreated more than
2.5 percent as copper and lead declined.  Eurasian Natural
Resources Corp. (ENRC)  sank 6.8 percent as analysts downgraded the
shares. Standard Life Plc slipped 1.2 percent as Chief Financial
Officer Jackie Hunt resigned to move to a rival insurer.  Ocado
Group Plc (OCDO)  fell for the first day this week as the online grocer
ruled out a takeover by William Morrison Supermarkets Plc.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index lost 16.17 points, or 0.3 percent, to
6,426.42 at the close in London. The benchmark gauge is still up
2.2 percent this week, the biggest advance since Jan. 4, amid
speculation the European Central Bank will cut interest rates
next week. The broader FTSE All-Share Index fell 0.3 percent
today, and Ireland’s ISEQ Index slid 1 percent.  “I am a little bit cautious in the short term,” said Ian Williams, a market strategist at Peel Hunt LLP in  London . “I am
not surprised we have see a bit of a flattening out in the
market. Next week, the macro calender is packed. There are quite
a few banana skins, so I would be pulling back on some of the
more bullish positions.”  Commerce Department figures today showed the U.S. economy,
the world’s largest, grew at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the
first quarter. The median estimate of 86 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg had called for a 3 percent gain. Consumer spending,
the biggest part of the economy, climbed by the most since the
fourth quarter of 2010.  ECB Rates  Reports in the U.S. next week may show the pace of
construction spending slowed and manufacturing growth cooled,
according to Bloomberg surveys of economists. The ECB will
announce its decision on  interest rates  on May 2.  The volume of shares changing hands in FTSE 100-listed
companies today was 30 percent lower than the 30-day average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A gauge of U.K. mining companies dropped 2.4 percent today,
paring its weekly advance to 1.9 percent, as copper led base
metals lower on the London Metal Exchange.  China ’s top leaders said the country must guard against
financial risks and boost consumption amid signs that the
recovery in the world’s second-biggest economy is faltering,
according to a Politburo Central Committee statement released
through the official Xinhua News Agency yesterday.  Rio Tinto, the world’s second-largest mining company, fell
2.7 percent to 2,959.5 pence. Anglo American dropped 2.6 percent
to 1,606 pence and  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO) , which mines for copper in
 Chile , retreated 3.9 percent to 916 pence.  ENRC Downgrade  ENRC, the producer of iron ore in Kazakhstan facing an
investigation from the U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office, tumbled 6.8
percent to 269.3 pence as Royal Bank of Canada downgraded the
stock to underperform from sector perform. The SFO said
yesterday it has opened a formal probe into allegations that
ENRC paid bribes to win business in Kazakhstan and  Africa .  Standard Life (SL/)  declined 1.2 percent to 387.3 pence as Hunt
left to join  Prudential Plc. (PRU)  She will run U.K. and European
operations at Britain’s biggest insurer. Standard Life,
 Scotland ’s largest insurer, is yet to appoint a replacement.  Ocado dropped 1.8 percent to 165 pence as the company
repeated that any joint venture with Morrison won’t involve a
takeover or the purchasing of shares. The stock jumped 12
percent yesterday on speculation that Morrison may buy into the
business as part of a deal that would mark its entry into the
online grocery market.  Talks between the two parties that were first disclosed on
March 14 are continuing, Ocado said yesterday in a statement
after markets closed, adding that there can be no certainty that
an agreement will be reached.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  