-- U.S. First Quarter Advance Gross Domestic Product (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2013-04-26T12:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/u-s-first-quarter-advance-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of
the Gross Domestic Product report from the Commerce
Department.  GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT:  FIRST QUARTER 2013 (ADVANCE
ESTIMATE)  Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods
and services produced by labor and property located in
the  United States  -- increased at an annual rate of 2.5
percent in the first quarter of 2013 (that is, from the
fourth quarter to the first quarter), according to the
“advance” estimate released by the  Bureau of Economic
Analysis .  In the fourth quarter, real GDP increased 0.4
percent.  The Bureau emphasized that the first-quarter
advance estimate released today is based on source data
that are incomplete or subject to further revision by
the source agency (see the box on page 3 and
“Comparisons of Revisions to GDP” on page 5).  The
“second” estimate for the first quarter, based on more
complete data, will be released on May 30, 2013.  The increase in real GDP in the first quarter
primarily reflected positive contributions from personal
consumption expenditures (PCE), private inventory
investment, exports, residential investment, and
nonresidential fixed investment that were partly offset
by negative contributions from federal government
spending and state and local  government spending .
Imports, which are a subtraction in the calculation of
GDP, increased.  Comprehensive Revision of the National Income and
Product Accounts  BEA plans to release the results of the 14th
comprehensive (or benchmark) revision of the national
income and product accounts (NIPAs) in conjunction with
the second quarter 2013 “advance” estimate on July 31,
2013.  More information on the revision is available on
BEA痴 Web site at www.bea.gov/gdp-revisions, including a
link to an article in the March 2013 issue of the Survey
of Current Business that discusses the upcoming changes
in definitions and presentations, including capitalizing
spending on research and development and on
entertainment originals and measuring transactions of
defined benefit pension plans on an accrual accounting
basis.  An article in the May Survey will describe
changes in statistical methods, and an article in the
September Survey will describe the estimates in detail.
Revised NIPA table stubs and news release stubs will be
available in June.  FOOTNOTE___________________  Quarterly estimates are expressed at seasonally
adjusted annual rates, unless otherwise specified.
Quarter-to-quarter dollar changes are differences
between these published estimates.  Percent changes are
calculated from unrounded data and are annualized.
“Real” estimates are in chained (2005) dollars.  Price
indexes are chain-type measures.  This news release is available on www.bea.gov
along with the Technical Note
(www.bea.gov/newsreleases/national/gdp/2013/tech1q13_adv
.htm) and highlights
(www.bea.gov/newsreleases/national/gdp/2013/pdf/gdp1q13_
adv_fax.pdf) related to this release.
___________________________  The acceleration in real GDP in the first quarter
primarily reflected an upturn in private inventory
investment, an acceleration in PCE, an upturn in exports,
and a smaller decrease in federal government spending
that were partly offset by an upturn in imports and a
deceleration in nonresidential fixed investment.  Motor vehicle output added 0.24 percentage point
to the first-quarter change in real GDP after adding
0.18 percentage point to the fourth-quarter change.
Final sales of computers subtracted 0.01 percentage
point from the first-quarter change in real GDP after
adding 0.10 percentage point to the fourth-quarter
change.  The price index for gross domestic purchases,
which measures prices paid by U.S. residents, increased
1.1 percent in the first quarter, compared with an
increase of 1.6 percent in the fourth. Excluding food
and energy prices, the price index for gross domestic
purchases increased 1.3 percent in the first quarter,
compared with an increase of 1.2 percent in the fourth.  Real personal consumption expenditures increased
3.2 percent in the first quarter, compared with an
increase of 1.8 percent in the fourth.  Durable goods
increased 8.1 percent, compared with an increase of 13.6
percent.  Nondurable goods increased 1.0 percent,
compared with an increase of 0.1 percent. Services
increased 3.1 percent, compared with an increase of 0.6
percent.  Real nonresidential fixed investment increased 2.1
percent in the first quarter, compared with an increase
of 13.2 percent in the fourth.  Nonresidential
structures decreased 0.3 percent, in contrast to an
increase of 16.7 percent.  Equipment and software
increased 3.0 percent, compared with an increase of 11.8
percent.  Real residential fixed investment increased
12.6 percent, compared with an increase of 17.6 percent.  Real exports of goods and services increased 2.9
percent in the first quarter, in contrast to a decrease
of 2.8 percent in the fourth.  Real imports of goods and
services increased 5.4 percent, in contrast to a
decrease of 4.2 percent.  Real federal government consumption expenditures
and gross investment decreased 8.4 percent in the first
quarter, compared with a decrease of 14.8 percent in the
fourth.  National defense decreased 11.5 percent,
compared with a decrease of 22.1 percent.  Nondefense
decreased 2.0 percent, in contrast to an increase of 1.7
percent.  Real state and local government consumption
expenditures and gross investment decreased 1.2 percent,
compared with a decrease of 1.5 percent.  The change in real private inventories added 1.03
percentage points to the first-quarter change in real
GDP after subtracting 1.52 percentage points from the
fourth-quarter change.  Private businesses increased
inventories $50.3 billion in the first quarter,
following increases of $13.3 billion in the fourth
quarter and $60.3 billion in the third.  Real final sales of domestic product -- GDP less
change in private inventories -- increased 1.5 percent
in the first quarter, compared with an increase of 1.9
percent in the fourth.  Gross domestic purchases  Real gross domestic purchases -- purchases by U.S.
residents of goods and services wherever produced --
increased 2.9 percent in the first quarter; it was
unchanged in the fourth quarter.  Disposition of personal income  Current-dollar personal income decreased $109.1
billion (3.2 percent) in the first quarter, in contrast
to an increase of $262.3 billion (8.1 percent) in the
fourth.  The downturn in personal income primarily
reflected a sharp downturn in personal dividend income
and a sharp acceleration in contributions for government
social insurance -- a subtraction in the calculation of
personal income. Fourth-quarter personal dividend income
was boosted by the payment of accelerated and special
dividends. The acceleration in contributions for
government social insurance in the first quarter
resulted from the expiration of the “payroll tax
holiday.”  Personal current taxes increased $27.2 billion in
the first quarter, compared with an increase of $34.3
billion in the fourth.  Disposable personal income decreased $136.3
billion (4.4 percent) in the first quarter, in contrast
to an increase of $228.0 billion (7.9 percent) in the
fourth.  Real disposable personal income decreased 5.3
percent, in contrast to an increase of 6.2 percent.  Personal outlays increased $116.3 billion (4.1
percent) in the first quarter, compared with an increase
of $97.0 billion (3.4 percent) in the fourth.  Personal
saving -- disposable personal income less personal
outlays -- was $313.3 billion in the first quarter,
compared with $566.0 billion in the fourth.  The personal saving rate -- personal saving as a
percentage of disposable personal income -- was 2.6
percent in the first quarter, compared with 4.7 percent
in the fourth.  For a comparison of personal saving in
BEA痴 national income and product accounts with personal
saving in the Federal Reserve Board痴 flow of funds
accounts and data on changes in net worth, go to
www.bea.gov/national/nipaweb/Nipa-Frb.asp.  Current-dollar GDP  Current-dollar GDP -- the market value of the
nation’s output of goods and services -- increased 3.7
percent, or $146.1 billion, in the first quarter to a
level of $16,010.2 billion.  In the fourth quarter,
current-dollar GDP increased 1.3 percent, or $53.1
billion.  BOX_____________________  Information on the assumptions used for
unavailable source data is provided in a technical note
that is posted with the news release on BEA’s Web site.
Within a few days after the release, a detailed “Key
Source Data and Assumptions” file is posted on the Web
site.  In the middle of each month, an analysis of the
current quarterly estimate of GDP and related series is
made available on the Web site; click on Survey of
Current Business, “GDP and the Economy.”  For
information on revisions, see “Revisions to GDP, GDI,
and Their Major Components.” ________________________  BEA’s national, international, regional, and
industry estimates; the Survey of Current Business; and
BEA news releases are available without charge on BEA’s
Web site at www.bea.gov. By visiting the site, you can
also subscribe to receive free e-mail summaries of BEA
releases and announcements.  *          *
*  Next release -- May 30,
2013, at 8:30 A.M. EDT for:  Gross Domestic Product:
First Quarter 2013 (Second Estimate)  Corporate Profits:  First
Quarter 2013 (Preliminary Estimate)  Comparisons
of Revisions to GDP  Quarterly estimates of GDP are released on the
following schedule:  the “advance” estimate, based on
source data that are incomplete or subject to further
revision by the source agency, is released near the end
of the first month after the end of the quarter; as more
detailed and more comprehensive data become available,
the “second” and “third” estimates are released near the
end of the second and third months, respectively. The
“latest“・estimate reflects the results of both annual
and comprehensive revisions.  Annual revisions, which generally cover the
quarters of the 3 most recent calendar years, are
usually carried out each summer and incorporate newly
available major annual source data.  Comprehensive (or
benchmark) revisions are carried out at about 5-year
intervals and incorporate major periodic source data, as
well as improvements in concepts and methods that update
the accounts to portray more accurately the evolving U.S.
economy.  The table below shows comparisons of the revisions
between quarterly percent changes of current-dollar and
of real GDP for the different vintages of the estimates.
From the advance estimate to the second estimate (one
month later), the average revision to real GDP without
regard to sign is 0.5 percentage point, while from the
advance estimate to the third estimate (two months
later), it is 0.6 percentage point.  From the advance
estimate to the latest estimate, the average revision
without regard to sign is 1.3 percentage points.  The
average revision (with regard to sign) from the advance
estimate to the latest estimate is 0.2 percentage point,
which is larger than the average revisions from the
advance estimate to the second or to the third estimates.
The larger average revisions to the latest estimate
reflect the fact that comprehensive revisions include
major improvements, such as the incorporation of BEA痴
latest benchmark input-output accounts.  The quarterly
estimates correctly indicate the direction of change of
real GDP 97 percent of the time, correctly indicate
whether GDP is accelerating or decelerating 72 percent
of the time, and correctly indicate whether real GDP
growth is above, near, or below trend growth more than
four-fifths of the time.  Explanatory Note: NIPA Measures of Quantities and Prices  Current-dollar GDP is a measure of the market
value of goods, services, and structures produced in
the economy in a particular period.  Changes in current-
dollar GDP can be decomposed into quantity and
price components.  Quantities, or 途eal・measures, and
prices are expressed as index numbers with the
reference year -- at present, the year 2005 -- equal to
100.  Annual changes in quantities and prices are
calculated using a Fisher formula that incorporates
weights from two adjacent years.  (Quarterly changes in
quantities and prices are calculated using a Fisher
formula that incorporates weights from two adjacent
quarters; quarterly indexes are adjusted for
consistency to the annual indexes before percent changes
are calculated.)  For example, the 2007-08
annual percent change in real GDP uses prices for 2007
and 2008 as weights, and the 2007-08 annual
percent change in GDP prices uses quantities for 2007
and 2008 as weights.  These annual changes are
田hained・(multiplied) together to form time series of
quantity and price indexes.  Percent changes in
Fisher indexes are not affected by the choice of
reference year.  (BEA also publishes a measure of the
price
level known as the implicit price deflator (IPD), which
is calculated as the ratio of the current-dollar value
to the corresponding chained-dollar value, multiplied by
100.  The values of the IPD are very close to the
values of the corresponding “chain-type” price index.)  Index numbers of quantity and price indexes for
GDP and its major components are presented in
this release in tables 5 and 6.  Percent changes from
the preceding period are presented in tables 1, 4, 7, 8,
and appendix table A.  Contributions by major components
to the percent change in real GDP are
presented in table 2.  Measures of real GDP and its major components are
also presented in dollar-denominated form,
designated “chained (2005) dollar estimates.”  For most
series, these estimates, which are presented in
table 3, are computed by multiplying the current-dollar
value in 2005 by a corresponding quantity index
number and then dividing by 100.  For example, if a
current-dollar GDP component equaled $100 in 2005
and if real output for this component increased 10
percent in 2006, then the chained (2005) dollar value of
this component in 2006 would be $110 (= $100 x 110 /
100).  Percent changes calculated from
chained-dollar estimates and from chain-type quantity
indexes are the same; any differences will be small
and due to rounding.  Chained-dollar values for the detailed GDP
components will not necessarily sum to the chained-
dollar estimate of GDP (or to any intermediate
aggregate).  This is because the relative prices used as
weights for any period other than the reference year
differ from those of the reference year.  A measure of
the extent of such differences is provided by a 途
esidual・line, which indicates the difference between GDP
(or other major aggregate) and the sum of the most
detailed components in the table.  For periods close to
the reference year, when there usually has not been much
change in the relative prices that are used as weights,
the residuals tend to be small, and the chained-dollar
estimates can be used to approximate the contributions
to growth and to aggregate the detailed estimates.  For
periods further from the reference year, the residuals
tend to be larger, and the chained-dollar estimates are
less useful for analyses of contributions to growth.
Thus, the contributions to percent change shown in table
2 provide a better measure of the composition of GDP
growth.  In particular, for components for which
relative prices are changing rapidly, calculation of
contributions using chained-dollar estimates may be
misleading even just a few years from the reference year.
SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department,  http://www.bea.gov .  To contact the reporter on this story: Ainhoa Goyeneche
in Washington at 
 agoyenechecu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Marco
Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  