-- UBS Recommends Buying Japanese Stocks, U.S. and Canadian Dollars
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-04-26T14:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/ubs-recommends-buying-japanese-stocks-u-s-and-canadian-dollars.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , the second-biggest manager
of money for the wealthy, added overweight ratings on Japanese
equities, the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar, according to
the latest monthly letter from Chief Investment Officer
Alexander Friedman.  UBS is recommending Japanese equities while reducing its
view on emerging market stocks to neutral, Friedman said in the
letter to client advisers dated yesterday. Japanese stocks will
probably rise, supported by the Bank of  Japan ’s plan to boost
money supply by purchasing assets equal to about 13 percent of
gross domestic product annually, or almost twice the rate of
purchases by the U.S. Federal Reserve, he said.  “This is the equivalent of the BOJ turning the tap on full
and then calling in the fire trucks to use their hoses as
well,” Friedman wrote. “It is no surprise the water is
rising.”  Friedman kept his overweight recommendation on U.S. stocks,
forecasting that the Fed may start reducing monthly asset
purchases by $10 billion per month from around October, leaving
the rate of asset purchases at $65 billion by year-end. This
will probably not have a “major negative impact on risk
assets,” while at the same time could support the U.S. dollar,
especially relative to the euro, he wrote.  Instead of adding to UBS’s current euro short, the Zurich-
based bank is recommending a dollar position versus the Swiss
franc, which is capped against the euro by the Swiss National
Bank. UBS is also recommending the Canadian dollar over the
Australian dollar. UBS kept its preference for the British pound
versus the euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  