-- Ukraine Asks Lawmakers to Allow Naftogaz Sale, Pipeline Lease
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2013-04-26T17:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/ukraine-asks-lawmakers-to-allow-naftogaz-sale-pipeline-lease.html
Ukraine’s government submitted a
bill to permit the sale of state-owned NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy and
lease its natural gas pipelines and storage facilities as part
of an overhaul of the loss-making energy company.  The draft law, which would annul a ban on selling Naftogaz
and leasing its infrastructure, was submitted to parliament in
the capital, Kiev, yesterday and released today on the
legislature’s website.  Opposition politicians instigated the ban on the company’s
sale in 2007 after Russian President  Vladimir Putin  said the
Ukrainian government had made “some offers to Russia on the
issue,” an assertion that was denied by then-Prime Minister
 Viktor Yanukovych , who’s now president.  Ukraine is seeking to trim the price it pays Russia for gas
imports as it grapples with its second recession in four years.
Attempts to secure aid from the  International Monetary Fund  have
failed because of the government’s refusal to raise household
fuel costs, a move the Washington-based lender has demanded to
narrow the  budget deficit .  Yanukovych said Feb. 22 that the country will probably
lease its Soviet-era gas pipelines to secure funds for their
maintenance. Russia is prepared to finance pipe upgrades and may
reduce gas-import prices to its neighbor, he said.  The European Union has also pledged funds to improve
pipelines, provided Ukraine splits Naftogaz into separate units
for extraction, transportation and fuel deliveries. Ukraine had
planned to set up a consortium with the EU and  Russia  to manage
its pipeline network.  Naftogaz posted a net loss of 10.27 billion hryvnia ($1.26
billion) in 2012 as the cost of importing Russian gas exceeded
the government-regulated price paid by households by about four
times. The company’s losses are financed by the state budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  