-- Turquoise Seeks Buyer for U.K. Marine Developer Oceanflow
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-04-26T14:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/turquoise-seeks-buyer-for-u-k-marine-developer-oceanflow.html
Turquoise International Ltd., a
London-based investor and adviser to the clean energy industry,
said it’s looking for a suitor for Oceanflow Energy Ltd., a U.K.
developer of tidal power technology.  Turquoise is helping Oceanflow to find a buyer for the
business or its technology, Frederik Mowinckel, a director at
the investor, said in an interview in  London . It’s aiming to
complete a sale by year-end unless it can raise money for
Oceanflow to further develop its technology, he said.  “The problem is that the more money you invest, the higher
is the price needed at exit,” Mowinckel said. “At the moment,
not much money has gone in, so we can sell the company for a
moderate sum” of about one million pounds ($1.5 million) to 2
million pounds, he said. Potential buyers include industrial
companies that want to move into the marine energy industry, or
an existing company in Europe or Asia, he said.  Oceanflow’s financial needs are “best addressed by an
engineering major,” said Managing Director Graeme Mackie. “An
awful lot of capital” is needed to move the technology to the
next stage, he said.  Energy from the waves and tides has the potential to meet
as much as 20 percent of the U.K.’s electricity demand,
according to the government. Oceanflow has developed a floating
tidal energy generation system, specifically targeted to operate
in exposed deep water sites. It differs from the majority of
marine power technologies that are mounted to the seabed.  Funding Gap  Wave and tidal energy companies face an “enormous”
funding gap as they scale up their technologies and require
larger sums of money, the director said. To survive, small
businesses could focus on one part of their device that can be
integrated into existing infrastructure. “We know that the big
players are looking at some of the small companies to see if
they could pick up bits and pieces,” Mowinckel said.  Marine energy businesses are increasingly being picked up
by large industrial companies with balance sheets large enough
to support the commercialization of their systems.  Siemens AG (SIE) ,
Europe’s largest engineering company, owns Marine Current
Turbines Ltd., Alstom bought Tidal Generation Ltd. from Rolls-
Royce Holdings Plc last year and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , owns a stake in
Aquamarine Power Ltd.  The U.K. government needs to do more to encourage domestic
industrial companies to invest in marine energy developers
through tax incentives or other mechanisms, the director said.
There are currently no U.K. industrial investors involved in the
industry, he said, and it costs 30 million to 50 million pounds
to build a device and develop it to a commercial utility-scale
product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  