-- Verizon Said to Take Vodafone Pursuit to Analysts to Spur Talks
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-04-26T23:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/verizon-said-to-take-vodafone-pursuit-to-analysts-to-spur-talks.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  has
been briefing analysts on how much it would be willing to pay
for  Vodafone Plc (VOD) ’s stake in their wireless venture, increasing
pressure on the U.K. company to return to the negotiating table,
people familiar with the matter said.  Verizon has communicated with some analysts that it
believes the fair value for Vodafone’s 45 percent stake in
Verizon Wireless is about $100 billion, said the people, who
asked not to be named because the discussions were private.
Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo’s comments on an April 18
conference call about the tax implications of a potential deal
were also meant to send a signal, they said.  Numerous private talks between executives of both companies
about settling the stake sale never amounted to much, in part
because Vodafone is dismissive of the $100 billion offer and
doesn’t see it as a reasonable opening bid, the people said.  By using analysts as a conduit, New York-based Verizon can
send a message to Vodafone’s shareholders about its intentions
after failing to reach a deal in talks with executives as
recently as December. After a 13-year partnership, Verizon is
pushing harder for a deal now because of a rare convergence of
low-interest loans, a high  stock price  and the prospect that
regulators may close tax loopholes.  “It seems like the right time for Verizon to use its
highly valued stock and the low interest rates in the market to
acquire Vodafone’s stake,” said Walt Piecyk, an analyst with
BTIC LLC in New York. “Verizon might regret not taking
advantage and getting a deal done this year.”  Piecyk estimated it would take more than $120 billion to
buy out Vodafone’s stake.  No Response  Thus far, Verizon’s strategy has failed to garner a
response from Newbury, England-based Vodafone, the people
familiar with the matter said.  Verizon is trading at its highest price in 13 years. The
shares climbed 0.8 percent to $53.63  yesterday  in New York, the
highest closing price since April 28, 2000.  Bob Varettoni , a spokesman for Verizon, declined to comment
on any Vodafone discussions. A Vodafone press representative
didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail and call seeking comment
after normal business hours in the U.K.  The U.S. and U.K. mobile-phone operators discussed a full
combination as recently as December, people familiar with the
matter said last month. Those talks stumbled over disagreements
on leadership and the location of the new headquarters, making a
 buyout  or partial sale of Vodafone’s stake in Verizon Wireless a
likelier outcome, the people said then.  Tighter Control  Such a deal would tighten Verizon’s control over its fast-
growing wireless business, which is outpacing U.S. rivals.
Vodafone Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao  has been selling
stakes in operators that the company doesn’t fully control,
including holdings in SFR, the second-biggest French mobile-
phone operator, and Asian and Polish investments.  A Verizon buyout of the U.S. wireless business would mark
the end of a venture that began more than a dozen years ago,
when Bell Atlantic Corp. -- the U.S. telephone company that
would later become Verizon Communications -- agreed to merge its
mobile unit with Vodafone’s in 1999. Verizon Wireless debuted
the next year.  ‘Difficult’ Funding  In the case of a stake purchase, Verizon would need to
raise about $50 billion in debt through bonds and loans, “but
it would be difficult,” said  Jennifer Fritzsche , an analyst at
Wells Fargo & Co. in  Chicago .  “To facilitate the placement of this large an amount of
debt, there likely would have to be a strong commitment from
Verizon to de-lever post deal,” Fritzsche said in a research
note.  Raising that much capital would probably push down
Verizon’s credit  rating  by two levels to BBB, or two levels
above junk on the Standard & Poor’s scale, she said.  While Verizon hasn’t hired advisers or tapped banks for a
loan, its treasury office is confident it can raise as much as
$60 billion in debt markets for a deal, said one of the people
familiar with the matter.  “It’s a perfect market to raise a benchmark size debt issue
since the high yield markets are wide open and demand for loans 
is bolstered by the surge of CLOs,” or collateralized loan 
obligations, said Matthew Duch, lead portfolio manager at
Calvert Investments Inc., which owns Verizon’s existing debt.
“The key to its debt package comes down to the structure. Given 
the size, I would expect it to have a broad range of maturities
and structures in order to tap different investing mandates.”  Borrowing Costs  Still, Verizon faces pressure to make a move before it
becomes more expensive to take on more debt. Because of  near-
zero Treasury rates, borrowing costs are low right now.  Verizon is emphasizing to analysts that Vodafone can sell
its stake without subjecting itself to a heavy tax burden, the
people said. In Verizon’s earnings conference call last week,
Shammo brought up the tax implications in response to a question
about Vodafone.  “There has been a lot of speculation about the tax
consequences of a purchase of this 45 percent,” he said. “And
we are extremely confident that such a transaction  could be
accomplished in a manner that is very tax efficient and would
not result in a tax on the gain in that stake.”  Loopholes Closing?  A workaround may only be available so long, as government
officials seek ways to crack down on tax loopholes. U.K.
Business Secretary Vince Cable said in December that governments
should coordinate across borders to make companies pay more tax.
Cable’s recommendation came after members of Parliament
lambasted  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , Amazon.com Inc. and Google Inc. for
using complex accounting methods to reduce tax liabilities in
the country.  Verizon also has to consider how long it can maintain its
status as the most expensive of the world’s largest
telecommunications stocks. It trades at almost 18 times its
estimated earnings for the next 12 months, compared with a ratio
of 14 for U.S. rival AT&T Inc. and 12 for Vodafone.  “This is gamesmanship,” Fritzsche said in an interview.
“They want a low starting point for negotiation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  