-- Vietnam to Approve Plan to Form Asset Management Company
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-26T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/vietnam-to-approve-plan-to-form-asset-management-company.html
Vietnam  will approve a detailed
plan in the next few days to form a debt-management company,
boosting the government’s efforts to revive a struggling economy.  “There is no model in the world for forming this kind of
company that we can completely copy,” Vu Duc Dam, chairman of
the Government Office, told reporters in Hanoi yesterday.
“During the company’s operations, we will constructively listen
to comments to adjust it if necessary.”  The government is trying to spur  expansion  that last year
was the least since 1999 after rising levels of bad debt crimped
lending. Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung has approved a master
plan to revamp the economy and set up a steering committee to
restructure banks by 2015, even as the debt-management company
was previously delayed until at least the end of April from an
earlier end-March deadline.  “This is an important step,” said Alan Pham, who helps
oversee about $1.5 billion as the Ho Chi Minh City-based chief
economist at VinaCapital Group. “But it’s just the beginning.
We are looking for a clear roadmap on how the non-performing
loans problem will be tackled, with definite milestones along
the way, and criteria to judge the progress.”  The central bank has submitted a detailed plan on the debt-
management company for the prime minister to review, Dam said.
He did not specify when the company would be established.  Bank Lending  The central bank may consider capping commercial lending
 interest rates  to help spur loan demand, according to a
government statement released in Hanoi yesterday. The government
plans to step up measures to boost lending while controlling
 money supply  to keep inflation under control, it said.  Bank lending growth slowed to 0.03 percent this year
through March 21, the government said on April 3, after
expanding 9 percent in 2012, the slowest pace in at least two
decades. The central bank targets 12 percent growth this year.  The economy expanded 4.89 percent in the first quarter from
a year earlier. The trade  deficit  widened to a worse-than-
estimated $1 billion in April, according to government data.  Vietnam’s credit channel is “impaired” even as lending
rates have responded to lower interest rates, International
Monetary Fund economists Ashvin Ahuja and Nombulelo Duma said in
a note this month. The monetary authority lowered borrowing
costs in March, the seventh reduction since the start of 2012.  The Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange’s benchmark VN Index
fell 0.4 percent to close near a seven-week low before Dam’s
comments. The dong declined 0.1 percent to 20,930 per dollar.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  