-- Will This Be Bangladesh’s Triangle Fire Moment?
-- B y   R i c h a r d   G r e e n w a l d
-- 2013-04-26T19:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/will-this-be-bangladesh-s-triangle-fire-moment-.html
This week, more than 300 people
were killed in the  collapse  of a building that housed clothing
manufacturers in the Dhaka region of Bangladesh. Many dozens
more may be buried in the rubble.  Just five months earlier, 112 workers died in another
factory fire, bringing the death toll there in recent years to
at least 1,000. These buildings often lacked permits, weren’t
built to code, had major structural issues and housed an
industry that put profits before people.  Such conditions recall the infamous 1911 Triangle fire in
New York City that killed 146 workers. The  Triangle Waist
Company  made “shirtwaists,” or women’s blouses. It forced
employees to work six days a week on the ninth and 10th floors of
a building in the heart of Greenwich Village. At closing time on
Saturday, March 25, a fire -- most likely ignited by a lit
cigarette -- started in a bin of waste cloth or rags on the
eighth floor. Workers rushed for the stairs and elevators. They
notified management on the 10th floor, but no one alerted the
workers on nine.  By the time the trapped workers realized what was
happening, there was no escape. Oil canisters stored in a
stairwell quickly fed the fire. A door was chained shut, the
elevator cable seized in the heat and fire escapes separated
from the building, sending workers to their death.  ‘Thud-dead!’  With little choice but to burn, many of those trapped on
the ninth floor choose to jump to their deaths.  W.G. Shepherd , a
UPI reporter, wrote at the time: “I learned a new sound -- a
horrible sound. It was the thud made by a speeding, living body
on a stone walk. Thud-dead! Thud-dead! Thud-dead! Thud-dead!
Sixty-two thud-deads! I call them that, because the sound and
the thought of death came to me, each time, at the same instant.
There was plenty of chance to watch them as they came down; the
height was 80 feet.”  Huge strikes in 1909 and 1910 had shut down the garment
industry in New York, bringing tens of thousands of workers into
the streets to demand better conditions. This didn’t help the
workers at Triangle, which remained nonunion. The 1911 fire
changed everything.  First, the tragedy occurred in a middle-class neighborhood,
Greenwich Village, not the immigrant slums of the Lower East
Side or Little  Italy . It was visible. Middle-class women
strolling the fashionable streets witnessed a horrible scene.  The fire also sparked a political awakening that united
struggling workers and morally responsible consumers. Many
middle-class women recognized that they had a connection to the
workers who made their clothes, resulting in a coalition of
shoppers and factory workers.  This movement soon forced the state to take action. In
1911, New York State’s government wasn’t known for purity or
humanitarianism. Tammany Hall, the corrupt wing of the
Democratic Party, was run by Al Smith and Robert Wagner, the so-called Tammany Twins. They were hacks, but they recognized a
winning political issue.  Tammany created the Factory Investigating Committee, co-chaired by the twins. Smith was speaker of the assembly and
Wagner led the state Senate. They saw the issue as a way to
gather votes.  From 1911 to 1915, they passed dozens of laws that
transformed manufacturing and provided a baseline for safety and
health. They empowered the fire and building departments to
conduct inspections and require fire escapes, sprinklers and
drills. Many modern workplaces feature occupancy limits, floor
fire marshals and fire-proof stairwells.  Safety Improvements  Today, we take these safety precautions for granted, but it
took the death of 146 mainly young immigrant women to reach this
point. And, rather than crush the economy or destroy industry,
the regulation propelled economic growth and social stability
for generations.  Bangladesh  today, like New York 100 years ago, is a leading
producer of U.S. clothing. Most of the major labels we wear pass
through factories such as the one where tragedy struck this
week, thanks to an elaborate global network of outsourcing,
middlemen and suppliers.  And while these factories may seem immune to change, the
Triangle fire is a powerful lesson from our economic past that
might point to a better future.  ( Richard Greenwald  is a professor and dean at St. Joseph’s
College in New York. He is the author of “The Triangle Fire, the
Protocols of Peace and Industrial Democracy in Progressive Era
New York” and “Labor Rising: The Past and Future of American
Working People.” The views expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Richard Greenwald at  richard@richardgreenwald.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  