-- WPP Revenue Beat Forecast on Digital, Fast-Growing Markets
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-04-26T08:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/wpp-first-quarter-sales-rise-on-digital-high-growth-markets.html
WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s largest
advertising company, said first-quarter revenue rose 5.9
percent, lifted by digital operations and business in fast-
growing markets and surpassing company expectations.  Sales for the period were 2.53 billion pounds ($3.91
billion), the London-based company said today. That beat the
2.52 billion-pound average estimate of four analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Like-for-like revenue, which strips out effects from
currency fluctuations and acquisitions, gained 2.1 percent.  WPP, which owns the Young & Rubicam and Grey Group
agencies, has been buying digital advertising assets and
companies in fast-expanding markets such as China and  Brazil  in
recent years to counter slower growth in Europe and North
America. Chief Executive Officer  Martin Sorrell  called “2-3
percent revenue growth something to be proud of” and said the
first-quarter 2.1 percent sales increase was “better than
budgeted.”  WPP forecast revenue growth of about 3 percent and targets
an operating margin improvement of 0.5 points for 2013.  “We started to look at revised forecasts and that
indicated revenue was growing above 3 percent and, all in all,
our margins are in line with an increased target of 50 basis
points,” he said in a telephone interview today. In that case,
“we’ll have another record year.”  The shares slipped 0.6 percent to 1,069 pence at 9:05 a.m.
in London.  Acquisition Plans  WPP plans to spend 300 million pounds to 400 million pounds
on acquisitions this year, mostly on small and medium-sized
companies, Sorrell said yesterday.  Net new business during the first quarter was $1.5 billion,
compared with $1.86 billion in the first quarter last year.
WPP’s Young & Rubicam was named the lead creative agency this
week for department-store chain J.C. Penney Co. More high-
profile accounts would be named in coming weeks, Sorrell said.  The U.S. is WPP’s largest market, followed by the U.K. and
China, while  Argentina , Brazil,  South Africa  and  Thailand  are
among the fastest-growing countries, Sorrell said. A third of
WPP’s revenue comes from high-growth markets, and digital
activities account for 34 percent, he said.  The company expects additional boosts next year with the
soccer  World Cup  in Brazil, Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia,
and U.S. congressional elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  