-- WTI Crude Retreats to Pare Biggest Weekly Gain Since June
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-04-26T12:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/wti-crude-declines-to-pare-biggest-weekly-advance-since-june.html
West Texas Intermediate fell for
the first time in seven days amid speculation the biggest weekly
advance since June was excessive.  Futures slid as much as 0.9 percent after failing to settle
above a technical-resistance level, paring this week’s advance
to 5.9 percent. Prices may rise next week on speculation that
the  European Central Bank  will cut its key  interest rate  to a
record low, a  Bloomberg News  survey showed. Brent crude’s
 premium  to WTI shrank to its narrowest since January.  “Market sentiment is still bearish,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in  London . “Crude
markets tend to overshoot and we do not expect deep and
sustained losses here.”  WTI for June delivery declined as much as 81 cents to
$92.83 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange and was at $93.18 as of 1:36 p.m. London time. The
contract climbed $2.21 to $93.64 a barrel yesterday to its
highest close since April 10, capping the longest rising streak
since July.  Brent for June settlement on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange fell as much as 85 cents, or 0.8 percent, to
$102.56 a barrel. The European benchmark grade’s premium to WTI
shrank to as little as $9.51 today, the least since Jan. 19,
2012. The spread slipped to less than $10 yesterday for the
first time in 15 months. It closed at a record $27.88 in October
2011.  Brent-WTI  The Brent-WTI spread, the most widely traded commodity
futures differential, has narrowed amid the restoration of North
Sea crude output, lower global demand estimates and waning
concern that Middle East tension will disrupt supplies. WTI has
risen this year as expanded pipeline capacity helps relieve a
glut at the storage hub in Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for New York-traded contracts.  Prices were little changed by weaker-than-forecast economic
growth in the U.S. The world’s largest economy grew at a 2.5
percent annual rate in the first quarter, Commerce Department
figures showed today in  Washington . The median estimate of 86
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 3 percent gain.  Oil slipped even as  Nigeria ’s loading program for June
showed that  Africa ’s biggest producer won’t ship any cargoes of
its benchmark Bonny Light grade. The country’s exports of other
crudes will total 61 cargoes, the least since March 2010,
according to plans obtained by Bloomberg News.  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  shut the Nembe Creek pipeline for repairs on April 15 and
invoked force majeure, a legal clause to suspend deliveries, for
Bonny Light.  Moving Average  WTI’s rally this week has stalled as futures approach
technical resistance along their 100-week moving average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The front-month
contract yesterday traded higher than this indicator, about
$93.50 a barrel today, without settling above it. Sell orders
tend to be clustered near chart-resistance levels.  CME Group Inc., which owns the Nymex, reduced the  initial
margin  for speculators on front-month WTI futures by 8.8 percent
to $4,510 per contract. The change takes effect after the close
of business on April 30 and follows a review of market
volatility to “ensure adequate collateral coverage,” it said
yesterday in a notice to customers.  WTI will increase through May 3, according to 16 of 40
analysts and traders, or 40 percent, surveyed by Bloomberg.
Fifteen respondents, or 38 percent, predicted there will be
little change and nine projected a decline. Last week, 48
percent of survey respondents projected prices will fall.  Banks including Nomura International Plc, UBS AG and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  are forecasting that the ECB will cut
its main refinancing rate to 0.5 percent at a meeting on May 2
after gauges of European manufacturing and services for April
showed weakness. The European Union accounted for 16 percent of
the world’s oil consumption in 2011, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  