-- Yudhoyono Still Weighing Single Price to Reduce Fuel Subsidies
-- B y   A g u s   S u h a n a   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-04-26T10:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/yudhoyono-still-weighing-single-price-to-reduce-fuel-subsidies.html
Indonesia is still considering a
plan to raise fuel prices across all categories to curb
subsidies, instead of just revising them by vehicle types,
President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  said today.  An across-the-board increase of 1,000 rupiah ($0.10) a
liter may add about 1.6 percentage points to inflation, while a
policy that is differentiated by vehicles will cut the impact by
half,  Bank Indonesia  Deputy Governor Perry Warjiyo told
reporters in Jakarta separately today.  Yudhoyono has sought to cut fuel subsidies and allocate
more funds to infrastructure to spur expansion. The government
limited the use of partially subsidized diesel in January after
protests derailed plans to raise prices in 2012. Subsidies must
be reduced for those who can afford paying for fuel at full
market price and maintained for those who can’t, Yudhoyono said.  “That’s the reason for having two different prices, even
though there’s still a single price option,” Yudhoyono said.
“The reports coming to me are on whether this is technically
possible on the ground; if the risk is too high then it’s not
possible for the government to choose that.”  Yudhoyono, who can’t run for president next year after
serving two terms, struggled to win support from within his own
coalition for last year’s proposed fuel-price increase. He has
said that Indonesia should review its subsidy bill and use the
savings to boost infrastructure, calling for fiscal prudence.  Standard & Poor’s  said this month that a delay in
structural reforms, especially rationalization of energy
subsidies, is a constraint in Indonesia’s credit quality.  Energy Subsidies  In his annual budget announced in August, the president
allocated 274.7 trillion rupiah for energy subsidies, compared
with 184.4 trillion rupiah for  capital spending . The country
spent 211.9 trillion rupiah on fuel subsidies in 2012.  Consumer price gains quickened to 5.9 percent last month
from a year earlier and Bank Indonesia has held  borrowing costs 
for 14 meetings. While gross domestic product has risen above 6
percent for the past nine quarters, the economy expanded in the
three months through December at the slowest pace in more than
two years as exports fell amid a decline in commodity prices.  PT Pertamina,  Indonesia ’s state-owned oil company, will
group its gas stations into four categories to anticipate the
government’s plan to sell subsidized fuel at two prices, Hanung
Budya, the company’s marketing director, said today.  Some will only sell fuel at current prices, while others
will be a mix of revised and current rates and the rest at the
new levels, he said. Of its 5,569 fuel stations, 54 percent will
sell gasoline at current costs and the rest at new prices, the
company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agus Suhana in Jakarta at 
 asuhana1@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  