-- Hyundai Apologizes for Promotion Video Depicting Suicide
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2013-04-26T08:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-26/hyundai-apologizes-for-promotion-video-depicting-suicide.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  South Korea ’s
largest automaker, and its advertising affiliate Innocean
Worldwide Inc. apologized for posting a promotional video
depicting a man trying to kill himself in his vehicle.  The spot, created by Innocean Worldwide  Europe  and posted
on Google Inc.’s YouTube, shows a driver of a Hyundai ix35 fuel
cell SUV trying and failing to kill himself by running the
engine in a closed garage because the vehicle doesn’t emit
fumes. The video, which has been pulled from YouTube after
triggering online criticism, wasn’t created for commercial
purposes, according to an e-mail from Innocean.  “Hyundai Motor deeply and sincerely apologizes for the
offensive viral film,” the Seoul-based company said in an e-
mailed response. “The film runs counter to our values as a
company and as members of the community. We are very sorry for
any offense or distress the video caused.”  Hyundai, which reported a 15 percent drop in first-quarter
profit yesterday, said it didn’t request the film to be made,
nor was it asked to approve the video. The lapse comes one month
after the South Korean automaker apologized for a posting on
Chinese social media touting the child-safety features of its
 Santa Fe  SUV while alluding to an outcry over the murder of a
two-month baby.  Hyundai said then that the posting was unauthorized and the
company will be more vigilant in monitoring its social media
accounts. An independently owned Chinese car dealer at the 
time also apologized after a posting that alluded to the murder
and touted the safety features of Buick vehicles.  ‘More Vigilant’  “Automakers need to be more vigilant, but they have become
less conservative and more risk-taking when it comes to
advertising even though aggressive use of social network can
sometimes backfire,” said Gregory Kim, a U.K.-based director at
Mirae Asset Securities Co., by phone today. “Even if it
backfires, it usually won’t have a lasting effect, and most of
the time it plays a positive factor for the company in the long
run by building brand awareness.”  Ford Motor Co. became embroiled in controversy last month
after  WPP Plc (WPP) ’s JWT India unit published unauthorized
advertisements, including a version depicting former Italian
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  with three tied-up and gagged
young women in the back of a Ford Figo vehicle. The  advertising
agency  subsequently fired an undisclosed number of employees for
their involvement in the “distasteful” ads, which were never
requested by Ford and weren’t intended for paid publication, JWT
said last month.  Innocean is 40 percent owned by Hyundai Chairman  Chung Mong Koo ’s eldest daughter Sung Yi, according to a regulatory filing
on April 4.  “We at Hyundai Motor America are shocked and saddened by
the depiction of a suicide attempt in an inappropriate European
video featuring a Hyundai,”  John Krafcik , chief executive
officer of Hyundai in U.S. said in a message posted on Twitter.
“Suicide merits thoughtful discussion, not this type of
treatment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  