-- ‘Evil Dead’ Leads U.S. Cinema Sales With $25.8 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-04-08T22:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/-evil-dead-leads-u-s-cinema-sales-with-25-8-million.html
“Evil Dead,” a remake of director
Sam Raimi’s demonic possession tale, was the top weekend film in
U.S. and Canadian theaters, opening with $25.8 million in ticket
sales for distributor  Sony Corp. (6758)   A 3-D reissue of  Steven Spielberg ’s “Jurassic Park” was
fourth in its debut, taking in $18.6 million for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
 Universal Pictures , researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said
today in an e-mailed statement.  Both pictures, the weekend’s only new releases, tested
moviegoers’ interests in revisiting ground-breaking classics.
Raimi, director of three “Spider-Man” films, kickstarted his
career with 1981’s “The Evil Dead” by giving audiences an
overload of gore and campy humor. In “Jurassic Park,” released
in 1993, Spielberg’s computer-generated dinosaurs set new
standards for life-like special effects.  “This new ‘Evil Dead’ has only a $17 million reported
budget, so not a bad profit margin for the update,” said  Paul Dergarabedian , president of Hollywood.com’s box-office unit.  Dergarabedian said it was a “solid” weekend overall,
noting sales rose from a year ago. The top 12 films grossed
$126.8 million, an 8.8 percent increase, figures show.  “Evil Dead,” was expected to take in $25.2 million over
the weekend, according to Box Office Mojo. Outside the U.S. and
 Canada , the film had $4.5 million in receipts.  Conjuring Evil  “Evil Dead” follows a group of young adults who gather in
a remote cabin to help a friend through a cold-turkey bid to
kick heroin. Early in the process, one of the gang reads from a
book of magic, inadvertently inviting a demon to join the
gathering. The malevolent spirit wreaks havoc and mayhem as it
possesses several of them in turn.  The film, produced by Raimi and directed by Fede Alvarez,
stars Jane Levy and Shiloh Fernandez. The script, based on
Raimi’s original, was written by Alvarez and “Juno” writer
Diablo Cody.  “Jurassic Park” is the latest film from Hollywood’s
archives to be released in the three-dimensional format. In
Spielberg’s action classic, the technology provides a fresh
perspective on velociraptors’ relentless hunt for two hiding
children and the terror after a tyrannosaurus breaks loose.  ‘The Croods’  The first film spawned two sequels, creating a trilogy with
$1.9 billion in worldwide ticket sales, including almost half
from the original, according to Box Office Mojo. The website
forecast $16.3 million in receipts for the weekend.  “ G.I. Joe : Retaliation,” a sequel to the 2009 film from
 Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s  Paramount Pictures  about elite U.S. commandos, was
second with $20.9 million and “The Croods,” from  DreamWorks
Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , was third with $20.7 million. “G.I. Joe”
opened in first place last week.  In the new “G.I. Joe,” the troops battle a government
plot to destroy their team, while fending off mortal enemy
Cobra.  Dwayne Johnson  stars as Joe team member Roadblock.
Adrianne Palicki plays trooper Lady Jaye, and Channing Tatum
returns as Duke.  “The Croods,” which was released on April 4, follows a
prehistoric family of cave dwellers as they seek a new life
after a shift in earth’s crust destroys their home. The movie
features the voices of Nicolas Cage,  Emma Stone  and  Ryan Reynolds .  “Olympus Has Fallen,” a thriller about terrorism from the
independent distributor FilmDistrict, fell to fifth from fourth,
taking in $10.2 million. Directed by Antoine Fuqua, the movie
features  Gerard Butler  as a Secret Service agent saving America
from a band of North Koreans who capture the White House, shoot
up  Washington  and threaten the president.  Year-to-date year sales are down 11 percent to $2.7
billion, Hollywood.com said. Attendance is down 12 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
April 5 to April 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  