-- Labrador Iron Ore Rises After Saying Company May Be Sold
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-04-08T16:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/labrador-iron-ore-rises-after-saying-company-may-be-sold.html
Labrador Iron Ore Royalty Corp. (LIF) , the
Canadian mining company under pressure from an activist
shareholder, rose the most in five weeks after saying it’s
considering strategic alternatives, including a potential sale
of the company.  Labrador Iron Ore Royalty rose 1.8 percent to C$33.65 at
12:29 p.m. in Toronto. The shares earlier  rose  as much as 4.1
percent, the biggest intraday gain since March 1.  The company hired advisers including Bank of  Nova Scotia ,
to consider its alternatives, Toronto-based Iron Ore Royalty
said in a statement after the close of regular trading April 5.  The move comes in response to Rio Tinto Group’s potential
sale of its controlling interest in Iron Ore Co. of  Canada , the
country’s largest producer of the commodity used in steelmaking.
Labrador Iron Ore Royalty owns 15 percent of Iron Ore Co. and
collects a royalty of 7 cents on every dollar of revenue
generated by the iron ore producer.  “We think Royalty’s statement is very constructive in that
it is now considering all alternatives to enhance value,” Blair Levinsky, a Toronto-based co-founder of Waratah Advisors, said
today in a telephone interview. “This company is a world-class
asset.”  Waratah is pressuring Labrador Iron Ore Royalty to consider
putting itself up for sale or dividing the company into separate
units and retain its stake in Iron Ore Co.  Rio Tinto Group (POT)  hired Credit Suisse Group AG and Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce to sell all or part of its 59 percent
stake in Iron Ore Co., a person close to the matter said on
March 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  