-- Macy’s, Martha Stewart Return to Trial If No Settlement Reached
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-04-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/macy-s-martha-stewart-return-to-trial-if-no-settlement-reached.html
Macy’s Inc.,  Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc. (MSO)  and  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  return to court today to
resume a trial that began Feb. 20 over the right to sell some
Martha Stewart merchandise unless a settlement is reached.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Jeffrey K. Oing in
Manhattan ordered the two retailers and home merchandise company
into mediation on March 7 after about two weeks of proceedings.  Unless the three parties tell Oing that they’ve reached a
resolution or need more time for mediation, the trial will
continue.  “If they had reached an agreement we’d know about it,”
Steven R. Gursky, an attorney with Olshan Frome Wolosky LLP in
New York who focuses on contract negotiations and intellectual
property, said in a telephone interview. It’s more likely they
haven’t reached a settlement because they didn’t have to wait
for the judge to take a break in the trial just to talk to each
other, Gursky said.  J.C. Penney in December 2011 acquired a 17 percent stake in
New York-based Martha Stewart Living for $38.5 million as the
department-store chain seeks to revive sales with new mini-
stores dedicated to Martha Stewart and other brands.  Macy’s, which has sold Martha Stewart-branded home goods
since 2007, sued her company in January 2012, saying it had the
exclusive right to sell items in certain categories including
bedding and cookware. Macy’s sued Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney
about three months later.  Mediation Program  Mediation is part of a program in the  Manhattan  branch of
the commercial division of the New York State Supreme Court that
allows for the resolution of legal disputes outside of
litigation, according to the court’s website.  Cases may be referred to the program by a commercial
division justice, the administrative judge or an authorized non-
commercial division justice, and is mandatory, according to the
website. The parties may also agree to mediation.  Parties who take part in the alternative dispute resolution
program, or ADR, can choose mediation, a neutral evaluation or
arbitration, although “almost all cases in the program have
been mediations,” according to the website.  “The experience of those who have taken part in the
program confirms that cases that are perceived by the parties to
be incapable of settlement and which might not be brought into
ADR on a voluntary basis in fact often do settle,” according to
the website. The parties have the option to send the dispute to
binding arbitration if mediation doesn’t produce a resolution.  ‘Reap Rewards’  Jim Sluzewski , a spokesman for Cincinnati-based Macy’s, and
Katherine Nash, a spokeswoman for New York-based Martha Stewart
Living, declined to comment on progress of the mediation. J.C.
Penney didn’t immediately return a telephone message left with
media relations seeking comment.  Lawyers for Macy’s, the second-biggest U.S. department
store chain, have argued that J.C. Penney is trying to “reap
the rewards” of its work with the Martha Stewart brand, which
the chain says it rebuilt after Stewart’s release from prison in
2005, when her products were sold at Kmart.  Martha Stewart Living has defended its agreement with J.C.
Penney, accusing Macy’s of breach of contract and saying the
retailer stocked and priced Martha Stewart products in a manner
that favors private-label brands. Martha Stewart Living also
said Cincinnati-based Macy’s couldn’t have exercised a five-year
renewal option in January 2012 because of the breach.  Unbranded Goods  Oing said on March 7 that he will listen to arguments on
Macy’s request for a preliminary injunction blocking J.C. Penney
from carrying unbranded goods designed by Martha Stewart Living
in the exclusive categories if the three sides haven’t come to a
resolution. J.C. Penney agreed not to stock the items until the
trial resumed.  Ordering the three sides to mediation was a “message”
from Oing “to get the Macy’s people to move,” as Martha
Stewart Living “hadn’t done anything to advance their cause,”
Gursky said.  “The Martha Stewart people had very good indication that
they should change their position,” Gursky said. “The Macy’s
people really could have said, ‘We might as well just wait
because it’s all going well.’ So I think those comments from the
judge were just a way of saying, ‘This can’t just be a one-sided
discussion so don’t be so sure of what I’m going to say, go the
table and negotiate in earnest.’”  Anthony Michael Sabino, law professor at Peter J. Tobin
School of Business at St. John’s University in Queens, New York,
said that “it would not surprise me if, when this is all said
and done, that these parties will go the rest of the way and
just say let the judge decide. They both have a lot invested,
not just in terms of the money, but in terms of their public
perception.”  The cases are  Macy’s Inc. (M)  v. Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012; Macy’s Inc. v. J.C. Penney Corp.,
652861/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  