-- Hagel Seeks to Bar Overturning of Sex Assault Convictions
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-04-08T22:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/hagel-seeks-to-bar-overturning-of-sex-assault-convictions.html
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel
proposed barring U.S. military commanders from overturning
court-martial convictions in cases of sexual assault and other
major crimes.  The proposal, which requires legislation from Congress,
follows lawmakers’ protests over a case at Aviano Air Base in
 Italy , where an aggravated sexual-assault conviction in a court-
martial last year was overturned by Air Force Lieutenant General
Craig Franklin, the so-called convening authority who oversaw
the case.  The reversal added to debate about whether the military
does enough to protect personnel from sexual assaults and acts
forcefully enough when it prosecutes wrongdoing.  “These changes would increase the confidence of service
members and the public that the military justice system will do
justice in every case,” Hagel said in a  statement  announcing
the decision.  Under the proposal, commanders would maintain the power to
reduce court-martial sentences, although they would have to
justify in writing the reason for a reduction.  Nancy Parrish, president of Protect Our Defenders, a
victims’ support group, said Hagel’s proposal doesn’t go far
enough.  ‘Insidious Problem’  “We have always contended that the more insidious problem
is that convening authorities can unilaterally lessen sentences,
and today’s announcement does not change this,” Parrish said in
a statement. “This still constitutes an extraordinary power
resting in the hands of one person with no equivalent in the
civilian criminal justice system.”  In the Aviano case, Lieutenant Colonel James Wilkerson was
convicted by a military jury of allegations he groped a
physician’s assistant as she slept in a guest bedroom at his
home. Wilkerson, a former inspector general of the 31st Fighter
Wing at Aviano, was sentenced to a year in jail, forfeiture of
pay and dismissal from the  Air Force .  Franklin, who convened the court-martial as commander of
the Third Air Force at Ramstein Air Base in  Germany , dismissed
the case in February.  While Franklin provided no public explanation at the time,
Hagel said last month that Franklin “concluded that the entire
body of evidence was insufficient to meet the burden of proof
beyond a reasonable doubt.”  ‘Big Win’  The case prompted Hagel to call for a review of Article 60
of the Uniform Code of Military Justice, which gives convening
authorities the power to overturn guilty findings of a court-
martial.  “This is a big win for survivors of sexual assault in the
military and for the causes of justice and accountability,”
said Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri Democrat and member of
the Senate Armed Services Committee.  Changes to the code require an act of Congress, according
to two defense officials who briefed reporters today on
condition that they weren’t named.  The officials said they didn’t know how many times
commanders overturn verdicts in military criminal cases, though
they said the occurrence is rare. One official estimated that
verdicts are overturned in about 1 percent of all criminal
cases.  The Pentagon must still draft legislation to enact the
change, which would be incorporated in next year’s defense-
authorization bill, they said.  The change would apply to all criminal cases, not just
sexual assaults.  Ending Assaults  Senator Jeanne Shaheen, a New Hampshire Democrat who had
urged the Pentagon to review the Aviano case, said she was
“encouraged Secretary Hagel has acknowledged the need to reform
the military justice system and has reaffirmed his commitment to
ending sexual assault in the military.”  Some lawmakers, such as Representative Jackie Speier, a
California Democrat and a member of the House Armed Services
Committee, are pushing legislation to strip military commanders
of the power to overturn verdicts or sentences.  “Generals are not above the law,” Speier said in a
statement last month.  The Defense Department has estimated there are about 19,000
sexual assaults a year in the military, based on anonymous
surveys of the active-duty force, although the number of
reported cases is smaller. There were 3,192 reported assaults in
2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  