-- Agrium Fight With Jana on Strategy Hurts Stock
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-04-08T14:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/agrium-fight-with-jana-on-strategy-hurts-stock.html
The battle  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  is waging
with activist investor Jana Partners LLC over the fertilizer
producer’s strategy is weighing on its shares just as the
outlook for commodities fades.  Agrium dropped 14 percent from a record Jan. 25 close in
Toronto, compared with a 4 percent dip for the benchmark
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index, as concern over global
economic growth caused commodity prices to decline. Jana, the
largest  shareholder  of Calgary-based Agrium, has been pushing
for changes since May and proposed five nominees for 12
positions on the board of directors. The results of a
shareholder vote were scheduled to be disclosed tomorrow.  “The worst case emerging is where there is no winner and
no loser,” Alexander Roose, a Brussels-based portfolio manager
who oversees about $300 million including Agrium shares at
Petercam SA, said in an April 4 telephone interview. “I don’t
think that’s something investors want.”  The election of even one of New York-based Jana’s nominees
would potentially hurt the company by eroding the cohesiveness
of Agrium’s board, Roose said.  Agrium has been publicly feuding with the hedge fund since
mid-August, when Agrium Chief Executive Officer Mike Wilson said
in a statement he had evaluated and rejected Jana’s proposal
that Agrium split off its retail farm-products businesses from
its wholesale fertilizer unit.  ‘The Mud’          Since then, Agrium has put out at least 15 statements about
Jana, and the hedge fund has responded with at least 20 of its
own, including one in February entitled “Jana Declines Agrium’s
Invitation to Join It in the Mud.” Among other things, Jana has
accused Agrium of mismanagement and said the board lacks
appropriate experience, while Wilson, 61, has called Jana’s
analysis “deeply flawed.”  Jana accused Agrium last week of “vote buying” by
offering to pay a fee to investment advisers and brokers for
shares voted in favor of Agrium’s directors, according to a Jana
statement on April 1.  “Between the two parties a lot of bad blood has been
happening and I don’t think that’s something you can make up in
a couple of months,” Roose said. In the absence of a clear
winner or loser in tomorrow’s election, Agrium’s shares will be
“dead money, at best,” he said.  ‘Like Babies’  Charlie Penner, a Jana spokesman, said no matter how many
Jana-sponsored directors are elected, they would be a minority
and would have no choice but to work collaboratively with the
full board.  “You will have 12 people in that boardroom with long and
successful careers in various fields who got to where they are
not because they fight like babies over disagreements, but
because they can all work well with others in the pursuit of a
common goal,” Penner said April 5 in an e-mail.  Agrium declined to comment on how the results of the
shareholder vote will affect the company’s prospects, Joel Shaffer, an external spokesman at Longview Communications Inc.,
said April 5 by telephone.  Jana faces “a steep challenge” in getting even one of its
nominees onto Agrium’s board, Matthew Korn, a New York-based
analyst at Barclays Plc, said in a March 28 note to clients.
It’s unclear how much influence Jana’s nominees would have on
the board even if they managed to get substantial
representation, Korn said.  ‘The Uncertainty’  “The uncertainty is what impact would a subset of
directors have on how Agrium would function,” Korn said in a
telephone interview April 4.  Jana’s nominees to Agrium’s board are the fund’s co-founder
and managing partner  Barry Rosenstein ; David Bullock, a former
chief financial officer of Graham Packaging Inc.; Stephen Clark,
the former CEO of German chemicals distributor  Brenntag AG (BNR) ; MSC
Industrial Direct Co. Chairman Mitchell Jacobson; and Lyle Vanclief, a former Canadian minister of agriculture.  Bullock didn’t return requests for comment on behalf of the
nominees on the vote and strategy made on April 5.  Jana said today in a statement it believed that both
Rosenstein and Bullock appear to have enough votes to be elected
to the board.  The $4.9 billion event-driven hedge fund, founded in 2001,
invests in companies undergoing changes such as mergers,
spinoffs and bankruptcies.  Agrium has a network of more than 1,200 agricultural retail
outlets in the U.S.,  Australia , Canada,  Chile  and  Argentina  that
market seeds, fertilizer and crop-protection chemicals to
farmers. The company also produces fertilizer products
containing nitrogen, potash and phosphates.  Retail Business  Agrium generated 66 percent of  sales  from its retail
operations last year, while the wholesale fertilizer business
accounted for 31 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Jana contends the full value of the retail unit is lost
within Agrium, while Agrium has argued it provides a useful
offset to downturns in commodity markets.  Agrium, which rose 0.9 percent to C$98.62 at 9:49 a.m.
today, has declined 9.3 percent in the past month as prices for
crops have tumbled, potentially leaving less money in farmers’
pockets to buy ammonia and other crop nutrients. Corn, soybeans
and wheat, the biggest U.S. crops along with hay, have slid into
bear markets with drops of more than 20 percent from 2012 highs,
amid forecasts for a  bumper crop  and slowing growth.  Assuming normal weather patterns, global corn production
will climb 15 percent to a record 975.65 million metric tons in
the year beginning July 1, from a year earlier, Informa
Economics Inc. said last week in a report to clients.  ‘Not Picked Sides’  The  International Monetary Fund  in January cut its global
growth forecast for this year to 3.5 percent from the 3.6
percent forecast by the agency in October, citing a lack of
progress in solving the euro region’s debt crisis.  The eroding commodity market is a bigger issue for Agrium,
and its “fine” management team may be distracted by a Jana
victory, said Robert Winslow, a Toronto-based analyst at
National Bank Financial.  “We have not ‘picked sides’ in the current proxy battle
since we believe this event is largely immaterial to the
downside agricultural cycle risks facing Agrium in 2013,”
Winslow said in an April 3 note. Winslow, who rates the stock
underperform, the equivalent of a sell, said his C$91.50
($89.74) target has “material” downside should grain prices
continue to slide.  ‘Very Limited’  While Agrium dismissed many of Jana’s proposals and
concerns, the company has moved to improve transparency, added
directors with experience in bulk agricultural commodities,
raised its dividend and bought back shares. After the battle
with Jana became public in August, Agrium’s shares rose as much
as 20 percent before starting to decline after Jan. 25.  The activist fund also has urged Agrium to boost capital
returns, improve disclosure and reduce costs and working
capital.  “The only movement that Agrium has been making as a
company has been very limited and only as a result of the
pressure exerted by Jana,” Steve Tabb, a New York-based
portfolio manager at Tocqueville Asset Management LP, said in an
April 4 telephone interview.  Agrium will earn per-share profit, excluding one-time
items, of $10.09 this year, according to the average of 25
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 6.8 percent
more than the $9.45 the company earned in 2012.  Some investors say a win by Jana would be positive for
Agrium.  Jana Backers  “If all five Jana nominees are elected, they surely will
change the board dynamic, and for the better,”  Horst Hueniken ,
a Toronto-based portfolio manager at  Dundee Corp. (DC/A)  who exited his
position in Agrium shares earlier this year, said April 4 in an
e-mail. It “will make Agrium stronger, rather than
dysfunctional.”  Tabb said investors shouldn’t underestimate the ability of
Jana’s nominees to effect change at Agrium. He said he cast all
of his votes in favor of the dissident slate.  “If they get two people on the board, they would be in a
position to seek and get a lot of information,” Tabb said. “It
may not be as effective as having five, but they could be
effective.”  Korn sees Agrium shares returning to highs no matter what
happens tomorrow.  “We continue to favor Agrium shares through the volatility
brought about by the current proxy contest and the market’s
current seasonal bearish speculation on crop prices,” Korn said
in a March 28 note to clients.  ‘Opportunities’ Exist  Agrium management got a boost for their side on April 5
when  Canada  Pension Plan Investment Board said it would vote in
favor of existing directors.  Jana “failed to make a compelling case for change at
Agrium,” CPPIB  said  on its website. “While we agree that
opportunities for improvement exist, we are of the view that the
dissident’s nominees do not represent the best alternative for
optimizing long-term value creation.”  The Toronto-based board managed C$173 billion of Canadians’
pension savings as of the end of 2012 and owned 1.2 million
shares as Agrium as of March, Linda Sims, a CPPIB spokeswoman
said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  