-- Maids Winning Rights Squeezes Brazilian Families’ Wallets
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-04-08T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/maids-winning-rights-squeezes-brazilian-families-wallets.html
For millions of maids, the law is a
milestone being compared to  Brazil ’s 19th-century abolition of
slavery. For the families that rely on domestics, it’s a budget
squeeze that could force them to cook and clean for themselves.  Congress last week approved a constitutional amendment
granting domestic servants an 8-hour work day, overtime pay and
other rights enjoyed by the rest of the workforce. While hailed
by lawmakers as historic, the law is spreading concern among
middle and upper-class families that the cost of employing a
maid or nanny will spike after almost doubling since 2006.  Daniela Batista, a working mom in Sao Paulo, says she may
fire the nanny who has cared for her children for two years to
avoid paying the additional 800 reais ($400) a month she says it
will now cost her in overtime pay alone. Currently she pays
1,800 reais for 12 hours of service, five days a week, and she
may have to hunt for someone who’ll work for less.  “For me, working fewer hours isn’t an option, nor for
anyone else I know,” says Batista, who is chief financial
officer of Simpress, a printing services provider.  Batista isn’t the only one worried about being priced out
of the market.  Legal Domestics , a group that promotes rights for
maids, estimates that 815,000 mostly poor, black women could
lose their jobs as a result of the stricter rules. That’s 40
percent of the current 2 million documented domestic workers.  “A family isn’t a business -- they’re not going to hire an
accountant to calculate overtime, vacation pay, and so on,”
Mario Avelino, head of the Rio de Janeiro-based group, which
based its findings on an online survey of employers, said in a
phone interview.  Rising Costs  While firings can be contained if the government grants tax
benefits for families, there’s no doubt the law will accelerate
a trend of rising costs for help, Avelino said.  Average salaries for domestic employees jumped 13 percent
last year, twice the pace of  inflation , and have risen faster
than any other profession in the past decade, according to the
national statistics agency.  One reason is that the number of maids is shrinking, to 6.7
million in 2011 from 7.2 million in 2009, as close to  record-low
unemployment  encourages the poor, who for decades formed a pool
of cheap labor, to pursue better-paying, higher-skilled jobs.  “We’re moving toward an American-styled system where soon
only the rich will be able to afford a maid,” Avelino said.  That’s a break from tradition in Brazil, whose population
of domestic workers is  almost double  the total of 3.6 million in
all developed nations, according to the Geneva-based
International Labor Organization. A sign of the entrenched
habits: even two-bedroom apartments are equipped with closet-
sized maid’s quarters, and babies frequently sleep in the same
room as their nannies.  Class Conflict  The law has raised awareness of longstanding mistreatment
of maids, bringing to the surface class tensions that were
partially smoothed over by an economic boom during Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva’s presidency, when both rich and poor prospered.  More than 40 million people climbed out of poverty during
the former metal worker’s 2003-2011 administration as an
increase in anti-poverty spending and price stability led to 4.1
percent average annual  growth . By contrast,  inflation  this year
is quickening --it stood at 6.43 percent in mid-March -- even as
the economy struggles to regain its footing after growing 0.9
percent in 2012, less than Japan and the U.S.  Washing Dishes  A recent issue of Veja, a newsmagazine read by Brazil’s
middle and upper classes, carried on its cover a photo of a sad-
faced man in a shirt and tie washing dishes under the headline
“You Tomorrow.” In contrast, the country’s most popular
weekend television news show, “Fantastico,” highlighted maids’
newfound empowerment.  In one tongue-and-cheek  skit  illustrating the newly
acquired rights, including up to a two-hour break for lunch, a
maid is asked by her employer to take away the dishes after
having served a sumptuous midday meal.  “I don’t think there’s time,” says the fictitious Maria,
bursting into laughter as she whips out from behind her apron a
giant alarm clock. “Now it’s my lunch hour!”  Even if dismissals are avoided, the law will spur legal
actions against employers and push more household staff into the
informal sector because Brazil’s rigid labor code, which dates
from the 1940s, favors workers, said Paulo Perrotti, a lawyer.  “Within the retrograde system that exists, the right thing
was done,” said Perrotti, whose  Sao Paulo  practice Perrotti &
Barrueco Associates has defended families in disputes with
domestic employees. “The question is whether the law will reach
the intended beneficiaries or drive more people off the books.”  Emotional Bond  Batista, 36, says she has discussed with other moms the
possibility of rewriting their employees’ contracts and
underreporting hours to absorb the extra costs. Even though it
pains her to break her kids’ emotional bond with their
baba, as nannies are affectionately known, she says she’s likely
to replace her with someone at a lower base salary. Brazil’s
national minimum wage is 678 reais.  “I don’t feel comfortable making a deal with her because
I’d be violating the law,” said Batista, adding that she might
forgo replacing the baba by asking a maid whom she and her
husband also employ to pitch in with child-rearing.  Pricier child care could also tempt some of the 9 million
women who’ve joined the workforce since 2001 to return home,
said Fernando de Holanda Barbosa Jr., an economist at Rio’s
Getulio Vargas Foundation, a university.  Family Time  “If at the end of the month they’re not earning much, some
may prefer to spend more time with their children,” said
Barbosa, who specializes in labor market trends.  The risk is real, he says, because of a lack of child care
options in Brazil. When parents are lucky enough to enroll their
kids in a day care center -- waiting lists of up to a year are
not uncommon -- they rarely provide the flexible hours working
moms and dads require.  President  Dilma Rousseff  has vowed to address the shortage,
repeating this month a campaign pledge to add  6,000 nursery
schools  -- nine a day -- before her current term ends in 2014.
In the first half of her four-year term, 612 were completed.  The government is also working on new legislation to avoid
mass firings and ensure maids are documented by granting tax
breaks to families and making it easier for them to meet the
tougher obligations.  “We have to act quickly because the legal uncertainty is
huge,” Senator Romero Juca, leader of the government’s effort,
told reporters April 3.  Historic Nature  What’s not in doubt is the legislation’s historic nature,
almost 125 years after Brazil became the last country in the
Western hemisphere to end slavery. The ILO  said  it will help
narrow “the historical divide between the richest and whiter
stratum of society and the poorest and darker lower end.”  Even with recent strides reducing poverty, Brazil  ranks 
14th worst in income equality, below Nigeria and  Russia , among
154 countries in a 2012 study by the  World Bank .  “We’re shutting down the last of the slave quarters and
throwing away the key,” Senate President Renan Calheiros said
in an April 2 legislative session attended by several maids. The
constitutional amendment was approved by a unanimous vote.  While maids are concerned about the law possibly
backfiring, they say the benefits are overdue. Under the
amendment, households for the first time will be required, as
companies already are, to contribute 8 percent of employees’
gross pay to a state-managed severance fund.  “Domestic servants work, work, work all our lives and have
nothing at the end,” Lorainy Cintra Pereira, a 24-year-old
nanny, said as she kept an eye on two toddlers at a park in
Rio’s beachside Ipanema neighborhood. “Now, with this new law,
you can build up a little savings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Goodman in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ; 