-- Alabama Pardons Scottsboro Boys 82 Years After Injustice
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2013-04-08T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/alabama-pardons-scottsboro-boys-82-years-after-injustice.html
Eighty-two years ago, all-white
juries in Alabama imposed the death sentence on eight black
teens falsely accused of raping two white women, setting the
stage for a landmark U.S. Supreme Court ruling.  Now, the  Scottsboro Boys  are poised to be pardoned.  Jeremy King , a spokesman for Alabama Governor Robert Bentley, said he expects the bill to be signed this week
allowing the posthumous pardons, reversing convictions that
became a symbol of racial injustice in a case that led to the
end of black exclusion from juries in the South.  The Republican governor “is supportive of clearing the
names of the Scottsboro Boys,” King said by e-mail.  Lawmakers unanimously approved the measure last week in a
vote that will put a new ending on a dark chapter in Alabama’s
history, said state Senator Arthur Orr, a Republican co-sponsor
of the legislation whose district includes Scottsboro.  “It shows Alabama is a different place than it was in the
1930s or even in the 1960s,” Orr said in a telephone interview.  The case originated during the Depression, in 1931, after
an altercation between two groups of teens -- one black, one
white -- riding illegally on a train in northern  Alabama . The
white riders complained to police, who searched the train and
found nine black boys and two white women, both of whom said
they had been raped.  Eight of the nine teenagers were convicted and sentenced to
death by all-white juries.  Both of the women were discredited during a series of
appeals, and one later recanted her claim. The Communist Party
represented the Scottsboro boys in the appeals, winning reduced
sentences for some of the convicted.  Surprise Action  The unanimous embrace of the Scottsboro pardons surprised
Susan Glisson, executive director of the William Winter
Institute for Racial Reconciliation at the  University of
Mississippi  in Oxford. She said lawmakers might have been
motivated by Alabama’s leading role in a challenge to the Voting
Rights Act, now pending before the  Supreme Court .  “The timing is at the very least ironic,” Glisson said in
a phone interview.  The 1965 Voting Rights Act requires states with a history
of racial discrimination to get approval from the U.S. Justice
Department before making changes in election laws.  ‘Historic Miscarriage’  Benjamin Todd Jealous, president of the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People, also
mentioned the voting rights case, while calling the pardons a
correction of “an historic miscarriage of justice.”  “Unfortunately, Alabama still needs to confront its
present,” Jealous said in a statement. “Its law targeting
undocumented workers is a human-rights catastrophe. Its lawsuit
against the Voting Rights Act threatens to create many more. It
needs to realize the error of its ways now, not 80 years from
now.”  The pardon legislation was pushed by a Scottsboro woman,
Sheila  Washington , who opened the Scottsboro Boys Museum there
in 2010.  She said she wished the pardons had happened while the men
were still alive. She also said the show of support from state
leaders surprised her.  “There are still people in Alabama that think the
Scottsboro Boys were guilty,” Washington said in a telephone
interview. “They come into the museum and say so.”  To date, only one of the men has received a pardon. Former
Alabama Governor George Wallace pardoned Clarence Norris in
1976.  Norris was the last surviving Scottsboro Boy when he died
in 1989, after spending most of his remaining life in  New York 
City, said his step-niece, Peggy Parks Miller, 60.  Miller said she telephoned Orr and Washington in tears last
week after learning that all of the men would be pardoned.  For years, Miller said in an interview, her family had
“talked about the situation in whispers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  