-- Talvivaara Slumps to Record Low on Further Leak: London Mover
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-04-08T10:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/talvivaara-slumps-to-record-low-on-further-leak-london-mover.html
Talvivaara Mining Co. (TALV) , the Finnish
nickel miner, plunged to a record in  London  trading after
another wastewater leak was detected at its only mining site.  Talvivaara dropped 18 percent to 13.50 pence at 10:19 a.m.
in London, the lowest since it first sold shares to the public
in May 2007. Trading volume exceeded 3.6 million shares, almost
three times the three-month daily average.  The company detected a leak yesterday at the gypsum pond of
its Sotkamo mine in eastern  Finland , according to a statement
today. Safety capacity is “sufficient” to manage the leak, it
said.  “This string of problems must end,” Jari Raeisaenen, an
analyst at Pohjola Bank Oyj, said by phone from Helsinki. “In
about a year a turnaround in production would need to be visible
to prevent financial troubles recurring.”  The latest events add to the plight of the troubled miner,
which cut its production forecast three times last year to about
13,000 metric tons from an initial estimate of as much as 30,000
tons. Excess water at its open-pit mine site, an 11-day leak of
waste water in November and low nickel prices have hurt the
Espoo, Finland-based mine owner.  The company said today it will increase purified water
discharge to regain water capacity in advance of the spring
melt. About 250,000 cubic meters of water have leaked from the
pond section adjacent to where the previous leak happened in
November.  Last month, Talvivaara shareholders approved a 261 million-
euro rights ($340 million) offer to help the company stave off
default and bankruptcy.  “Getting production on track is the most pressing issue,
that’s the way to get  cash flow  positive and ultimately generate
profit,” Raeisaenen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  