-- Man. City’s Mancini to Face End-of-Season Review: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-08T07:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/man-city-s-mancini-to-face-end-of-season-review-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Mancini Review  Manchester City will review manager  Roberto Mancini ’s
position at the end of the season, the  Guardian reported .  Mancini, who was given a five-year contract in July after
guiding the club to its first English league title in 44 years,
will face a review in  Abu Dhabi  led by City Chairman Khaldoon al Mubarak and including Chief Executive Officer Ferran Soriano,
the newspaper added.  ‘Play With Fear’  Mancini, whose team visits  Manchester United  in the Premier
League today, said lower-ranked clubs try harder when playing
against City than they do when facing its crosstown rival, the
 Independent reported .  “No one plays well against United because they only play
with fear,” the newspaper cited Mancini as saying. “Their
mentality is poor in that game.”  Fitness Failure  Sunderland manager Paolo Di Canio said the team’s players
aren’t fit enough after the Black Cats lost 2-1 to Chelsea
yesterday in his first game since replacing  Martin O’Neill , the
 Daily Mail  reported.  “It’s not the fittest team in the world,” the Mail cited
Di Canio as saying. “But we are going to work and give them
more energy in the next few days and weeks.”  Swansea Signing  Swansea City will make Real Betis’s Jose Canas its first
acquisition of the offseason after reaching a pre-contract
agreement to sign the midfielder on a free transfer, the  Daily
Mirror reported .  Canas, 25, will join Swansea on a three-year contract from
July 1 after rejecting an offer from West Bromwich Albion, the
newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  