-- Manchester City Checks United’s Title Surge by Beating Rival 2-1
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-08T23:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/manchester-city-wins-2-1-at-manchester-united-in-premier-league.html
Manchester City  stalled Manchester
United’s Premier League title bid with a 2-1 win against its
rival that cut the gap at the top of the standings to 12 points
with seven games remaining.  Substitute  Sergio Aguero ’s solo goal with 12 minutes left
last night gave City back-to-back league wins at United’s Old
Trafford stadium for the first time since 1972.  James Milner ’s
deflected strike had put the visiting team ahead in the 51st
minute before United tied it through a Vincent Kompany own goal.  United’s first loss in 19 league games leaves it on 77
points as it seeks a record-extending 20th English title.
Defending champion City is second on 65 points, seven ahead of
Chelsea, whom it meets in the F.A. Cup semifinals on April 14.  “It was a great result and the aim is to keep that
momentum going until the end of the season,” Milner told  Sky
Sports . “Regardless of where we are in the table, a derby is a
derby and you massively want to beat your rivals.”  City manager  Roberto Mancini  said the victory showed that
his team didn’t deserve to have been 15 points behind United in
the title race. It was only the second time the Red Devils
failed to secure all three points at home in the league this
season. Their only other loss at Old Trafford in the competition
was to Tottenham on Sept. 29.  “It was a very intense game with the two best teams in the
country,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  said. “We were unlucky
to lose it. If you look at the whole thing, it’s not a bad day
for us in terms of the performance level. You don’t want to a
lose a derby game, but we’re OK.”  10 Points  With 21 points available from the remaining seven matches,
United needs another 10 points to regain the trophy City won on
the final day of last season on goal difference after the
Manchester rivals both finished with 89 points.  “This win changes nothing because the title race is
finished now, but it was vital that we won for the second
position,” Mancini said.  City took the lead six minutes after half time last night.
 Ryan Giggs  lost possession to  Gareth Barry  near the halfway
line. Barry drove forward and sent a low ball to Samir Nasri,
who then teed up Milner to fire a low shot that deflected off
United defender  Phil Jones  and past goalkeeper David de Gea into
the corner of the net.  United tied it eight minutes later after  Yaya Toure  fouled
Rafael da Silva. Robin van Persie ’s driven free kick wasn’t
collected by City goalkeeper  Joe Hart  and Jones’s header, which
was directed across the goal, went into the net off the back of
City defender Kompany.  Aguero got City’s winning goal seven minutes after coming
on as a substitute. Toure fed a pass to the Argentine forward,
who outpaced three United defenders as he weaved into the
penalty area before firing an angled drive past De Gea into the
roof of the net.  “The derby is always a special game and for us to be able
to win is massive,” City captain Kompany said. “I do believe
that the way we finish this season is going to have an impact on
next season when we will start from the beginning. This is a
really good game for us to have under our belts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  