-- Annette Funicello, TV’s Beloved Disney Mouseketeer, Dies at 70
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d   a n d   W i l l i a m   E .   A h e a r n
-- 2013-04-08T17:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/annette-funicello-tv-s-beloved-disney-mouseketeer-dies-at-70.html
Annette Funicello, whose youthful
charm made her the most popular of the original Mouseketeers on
 Walt Disney ’s “ The Mickey Mouse Club ” television show, has
died. She was 70.  She died today at Mercy Southwest Hospital in Bakersfield,
California, according to a statement from  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , based
in  Burbank , California. The cause was complications from
multiple sclerosis, a degenerative neurological disease. In 1992
she said she had been diagnosed with the ailment since 1987.  On one of the most popular children’s TV shows of the
1950s, Funicello established herself as the  most beloved  of the
two dozen young performers known as Mouseketeers. Her Italian-
American ancestry gave her, at 12, dark brunette curls to go
along with a dimpled smile that was at once shy and enticing.  Picked personally by Walt Disney for the cast, Funicello
became the only Mouseketeer kept on contract after the show’s
four-season run. She went on to a career in music and film,
including a series of popular beach movies that paired her with
 Frankie Avalon .  She never was scantily clad in those movies, keeping a
promise to Disney that she wouldn’t show her navel on screen.  “She’s the perfect girl next door,” Avalon once said.
“She doesn’t have a mean bone in her body. She’s the sweetest
girl I know, and nothing’s ever changed.”  In her 1994  memoir , “A Dream Is a Wish Your Heart Makes,”
Funicello wrote that the carefully scrubbed innocence of “The
Mickey Mouse Club” was “an honest if exaggerated reflection of
an America that, sadly, has faded into history.”  Accidental Stardom  An accidental celebrity, Funicello pronounced her last name
“Fun-is-sello” to downplay her heritage, she said, and once
proposed changing it to Turner. Disney instead urged her to
start using the correct pronunciation -- “Foon-i-chello” -- in
public.  Annette Joanne Funicello was born on Oct. 22, 1942, in
Utica,  New York , the first child of first-generation Italian-
Americans. Her father, Joe, was a master auto mechanic who met
his future wife, Virginia Albano, at her brother’s diner, where
she worked as a secretary and hostess.  At 2, Funicello could sing the words to every top popular
song, with a special affection for  Johnny Mercer ’s “Accentuate
the Positive,” she recalled in her memoir. Still, when her
parents packed up for California in 1946, when she was 4 and her
brother Joey was nine months, it was to chase not stardom but
warmer weather, she said. Another brother, Michael, was born
after the family settled in  Los Angeles .  Disney Auditions  Funicello took drum and dance lessons and, at 12, had the
lead role in her dance school’s performance of “ Swan Lake .”
Among those in the audience was Disney, who was looking for
child performers for his new show.  She was invited to audition, then called back twice to try
out for what was, she later learned, the final spot in the cast.  The two dozen Mouseketeers were divided into three groups.
Funicello was among the eight who performed the show’s opening
and closing numbers. Other original cast members included  Johnny
Crawford , later a bandleader and a star of the TV series “The
Rifleman;”  Paul Petersen , who would appear on “The Donna Reed
Show;” and two sons of actor Mickey Rooney, Tim and Mickey Jr.  The Mouseketeers debuted in a national TV special on July
17, 1955, the day Disneyland opened. The series aired on ABC
from 1955 to 1958.  When the show ceased production in 1959, the studio moved
Funicello into singing and film acting.  Her first recording, “How Will I Know My Love?” sold
several hundred thousand copies, and she broke the Top 10 in
1959 with “Tall Paul,” which she performed on Dick Clark’s
“American Bandstand.”  Celebrating Innocence  Her first film was “The Shaggy Dog” (1959), with Fred
MacMurray, followed by “Babes in Toyland” (1961).  “ Beach Party ” (1963) paired Funicello with her longtime
friend, Avalon, in a celebration of youth, sun, surfing and
innocent flirtation. Its success led to sequels including
“Muscle Beach Party” (1964) and “Beach Blanket Bingo”
(1965).  “I knew it would be a lot of fun,” Funicello wrote of her
first movie. “But never in a million years did I or anyone else
associated with the film dream it would evolve into such a
timeless gem of pop-culture Americana.”  She and Avalon co-hosted a failed TV music-variety show in
1976 called “Easy Does It.”  In one of her final performances, she and Avalon returned
to the screen in “Back to the Beach” (1987), playing parents
visiting their surf-loving daughter in  California . She was
diagnosed with MS while making the film.  “I think you only have two choices in this kind of
situation,” she said in making her diagnosis public in 1992.
“Either you give in to it or you fight it. I intend to fight.”  She made few public appearances in subsequent years. To
help in the fight against the disease, she created the  Annette
Funicello Research Fund for Neurological Diseases .  Funicello was married to Jack Gilardi, her manager, from
1965 until their divorce in 1981. They had a daughter, Gina, and
two sons, Jack Jr. and Jason. She married horse trainer Glen
Holt in 1986.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  