-- Apple, Ford, Chilling Effects: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-04-08T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/apple-ford-chilling-effects-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the maker of the iPhone
and iPad, is seeking a patent on a technology that will make it
possible to present street-level imaging in a mobile device.  Application  20130083055 , published in the database of the
U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office  April 4, is for position-
tracking subsystems and onboard sensors that enable a mobile
device’s virtual navigation of a location in panoramic imagery.  When the device is moved through space, translation data
can be used to move up or down a street, or even into a
commercial establishment, or navigate a turn at an intersection.  Cupertino, California-based Apple filed its patent
application in September 2011.  Google Seeks U.S. Probe of Patent Privateering Defended by Nokia  Google Inc. (GOOG) , joined by BlackBerry, urged U.S. regulators to
investigate whether some competitors violate antitrust laws by
hiring companies to file patent-infringement suits for them.  There’s been a rise of so-called privateers, which obtain
patents from technology companies and then file infringement
lawsuits against the sellers’ competitors, Google and BlackBerry
said in an April 5 filing with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission
and  Department of Justice . Internet service provider  EarthLink
Inc. (ELNK)  and  Red Hat Inc. (RHT) , the largest seller of Linux operating-
system software, also joined the submission.  The filing was part of broader comments by the companies on
so-called patent assertion entities, which obtain patents for
the sole purpose of extracting royalties. Such companies
“impose an ever-rising tax on innovative industries,” Google,
owner of the most widely used search engine, said in the filing.  “We are also concerned with, and suggest that the agencies
should seriously examine, the outsourcing of patent enforcement
by operating companies -- companies that develop technology and
sell products -- to PAEs and the competitive implications of
such activities,” Google and  BlackBerry (BBRY)  wrote. “So-called
privateering amplifies the threat to innovation and competition
already posed by PAEs.”  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , Microsoft Corp.,  BT Group Plc (BT/A) ’s British Telecom
and Alcatel-Lucent are among companies connected with these
licensing firms. Companies that would, in the past, assert their
patents in lawsuits to protect their property now say they work
with privateers to make money from past research.  In a typical lawsuit, competing companies accuse each other
of infringing patents and then reach a cross-licensing
agreement, which lowers the amount of money that has to change
hands. That type of resolution isn’t possible when one side
doesn’t make any products, and therefore doesn’t have to fear a
retaliatory lawsuit.  By transferring patents to such a firm, for a cut of any
revenue from a settlement or fees, a manufacturer can get a
financial reward while insulating itself and its products from
infringement claims and limiting its legal costs, Google and
BlackBerry said.  Google said assertion entities can increase the cost of
licensing because a portfolio can be split among multiple
privateers, each demanding a royalty. That’s especially true
when the larger company has patents that relate to technology
used across the industry.  “These arrangements (and others) between operating
companies and PAEs can, depending on the facts, transgress the
antitrust laws,” Google and BlackBerry wrote.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Ford Seeks to Register ‘Inflatable Light Urban Vehicle’ Mark  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the 110-year-old U.S. automaker, has filed
an application to register the term “inflatable light urban
vehicle (iLuv)” as a trademark, according to the database of
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  There is also a separate “iLuv” application filed on the
same date in mid-March. The company said both will be used with
autos.  Ford, based in Dearborn,  Michigan , may be considering
making a foldable car or a small three-wheeled electric vehicle
for crowded cities, the Ford Inside News blog suggested.  Harare Dynamos Soccer Team’s Trademark Awarded to Creditor  A  soccer club  in Zimbabwe lost its trademark name and logo
to a Cypriot financial company to which it owes money, the
Harare Herald  reported .  A civil court in Zimbabwe granted  Qotho Finance  a default
judgment against the  Harare Dynamos , according to the newspaper.  The debt is only $4,900, and club officials told the
newspaper that the debt issue “is being attended to” and
should be resolved within a week.  The order giving Qotho the trademark was handed down in
mid-March, according to the Herald.  Bar Owner Drops ‘Husker’ Moniker After Complaint From University  The owner of  Barry ’s, a sports bar in the  University of
Nebraska ’s home town of Lincoln, was told he had to drop the use
of the university’s “Husker” nickname in the bar’s name, the
Lincoln JournalStar  reported .  Kevin Fitzpatrick told the JournalStar that while he is
removing all references to “Husker,” he wonders why other
businesses in the state -- including a crematorium, a steakhouse
and a  law firm  -- are permitted the use of the term.  Michael Drucker of Atlanta-based Collegiate Licensing Co.,
which licenses the school’s trademark, told the newspaper the
issue with permitted use is whether customers might mistakenly
think a ‘Husker’ business has a relationship to the university.  Because the bar is two blocks from campus, its use of the
school colors and the “Husker” mark were more likely to give
people the impression the school endorsed the bar, the
JournalStar reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Chilling Effects Clearinghouse Targeted in Takedown Requests  The  Chilling Effects Clearinghouse , a project of  San
Francisco ’s  Electronic Frontier Foundation  and several law
schools, is the target of a number of takedown requests filed by
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and other content owners.  Function of Chilling Effects is the reporting of takedown
requests made under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. Those
who have received cease-and-desist requests from content owners
have been forwarding those notices for posting on the Chilling
Effects blog.  According to Google Inc.’s  Transparency Report , the search-
engine company receives an average of two requests per week to
take down content from the Chilling Effects website.  Google statistics indicate that Chilling-Effects takedown
request have been received from Microsoft Corp., NBCUniversal,
Warner Brothers Entertainment Inc., and the brand-protection
company Marketly LLC.  Prometheus, Penske Media Settle Source-Code Copyright Dispute  Prometheus Global Media LLC, a content company operated by
Guggenheim Partners LLC, has settled a copyright-infringement
suit brought by Penske Media Corp., according to a court filing.  The case was filed in federal court in  Los Angeles  in
September 2011. Penske, which does business as PMC and is the
published of Variety, accused Prometheus of copying the computer
source code used on PMV’s TVLine.com website.  In the complaint, PMC alleged that Prometheus -- publisher
of the  Hollywood Reporter  -- not only misappropriated the source
code. The company also filed to remove the “digital
fingerprints that identified the content as PMC’s.  In settlement of the case, Prometheus agreed to pay Penske
$162,5000. Additionally, Prometheus was given the option of
releasing a statement acknowledging that it had copied the
source code, apologized, compensated PMC, and the dispute has
been resolved. Each party was to pay its own attorney fees and
litigation costs.  The case is Penske Media Corp. v. Prometheus Global Media
LLC, 2:11-cv-07560-FMO-MRW, U.S. District Court, Central
District of  California  (Los Angeles).  Vkontakte to Appeal Infringement Damages Award to Singer Maksim  Vkontakte,  Russia ’s largest social network, said it will
appeal an order requiring it to pay damages to the Russian
singer Maksim for unauthorized use of her music on the Vkontakte
website, the Russia Beyond the Headlines news website  reported.   Vkontakte has been the target of copyright-enforcement
activities by  Recording Industry Association of America , a
music-industry trade group that has called the social media site
one of the world’s worst pirates, according to the news website  The social media site blocks unauthorized file-sharing only
after receiving a complaint from the owner of the content,
Beyond the Headlines reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  -- With assistance from Susan Decker in  Washington . Editors:
Mary Romano, Glenn Holdcraft  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 