-- Mariner Hires BlackRock’s Pellicciaro for New Hedge Fund
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-04-08T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/mariner-hires-blackrock-s-pellicciaro-for-new-hedge-fund.html
Mariner Investment Group LLC, the
$10 billion hedge-fund firm founded by William Michaelcheck,
hired Eric Pellicciaro from  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  to manage a global
macro portfolio of a new  multistrategy  hedge fund.  Mariner plans to hire several managers to run various
strategies for the Mariner Incubation Fund and will invest an
initial $50 million to $100 million in each portfolio, according
to a statement today from the New York-based firm.  The firm seeks to attract investment personnel who have
left banks because of the so-called Volcker Rule, according to
Bracebridge Young, Mariner’s chief executive officer. The
provision, part of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act named for former
Federal Reserve Chairman Paul A. Volcker, set limits on risk-
taking and caused some U.S. banks to shut down or spin off
proprietary-trading units.  “There is currently a great deal of senior talent
available in the market as a result of recent changes to the
industry, specifically the effects of implementation of the
Volcker Rule,” Young said in an e-mail.  Pellicciaro, 38, will manage Alarium Mariner Global  Macro (BBHFUNDS) ,
a portfolio within the Mariner Incubation Fund that will invest
in assets based on macroeconomic themes, the firm said in the
statement. Mariner may later start a standalone Alarium Global
Macro Fund managed by Pellicciaro, it said.  Pellicciaro was formerly head of global rates investments
at New York-based BlackRock, where he was responsible for macro
and global interest rate strategy for the more than $600 billion
fundamental fixed-income portfolios, Mariner said in the
statement. He also co-managed fixed-income mutual funds and ran
alternative investment and mortgage portfolios.  Mariner was started in 1992 and has 230 people working in
offices from New York to  Seoul .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  