-- Larsen Seeks Partners for Asia Airports Debut: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-04-09T11:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/larsen-seeks-partners-for-asia-airports-debut-corporate-india.html
Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , India’s
biggest engineering company, is seeking partners to bid for
airport and power projects in Asia and  Africa  after a slowdown
at home cut sales growth to the least in 10 quarters.  The Mumbai-based company needs local tie-ups as it has
negligible presence and expertise in the regions, S.N. Subrahmanyan, director at Larsen, said in a telephone interview,
without elaborating. Singapore and  Indonesia  have announced
plans to expand their airports, while  San Miguel Corp. (SMC) , the
largest conglomerate in the  Philippines , said in September it
may build a $6 billion airport near  Manila .  “We are looking at all opportunities and we are talking to
people,” Subrahmanyan said. These regions are “not our areas
of strength. If we get a good partner and do value addition, we
will definitely and seriously look at it.”  Larsen needs to win more projects abroad to counter a slump
in  India , where the pace of growth in the $1.8 trillion economy
has dropped to the slowest in a decade. Overseas revenue as a
percentage of total sales shrank in the three years to March
2012, defeating the company’s goal of doubling the share in the
same period. Larsen’s  stock  has slid 17.9 percent in 2013,
versus a 6.2 percent decline in the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex.  Abu Dhabi  The firm is the fifth-worst performer on the 90-member
 Bloomberg Asia Pacific Engineering and Construction Index  this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Earnings from
abroad accounted for 12 percent of total sales last fiscal year,
down from 19 percent in 2009.  The company is currently bidding across the spectrum of
projects in the  Middle East , Subrahmanyan said. It won a $257
million contract this month to build a new terminal from  Abu
Dhabi  Airports Co. PJSC. One of its divisions is also building
Salalah airport at Oman.  Turnkey airport projects have helped enhance the company’s
experience in terms of technology, international sourcing and
logistics, Subrahmanyan said.  “Larsen is going in the right direction,” said Jinal Joshi, a Mumbai-based analyst with BOB Capital Markets Ltd. who
 recommends  buying the stock. “Larsen’s credibility is high in
India, but they may face tough competition from domestic players
in new markets. Just like foreign companies have ventures here,
it’ll help the company to get a breakthrough if they form
partnerships outside.”  Capital Goods  Revenue at Asia’s second-biggest engineering and
construction firm by market value rose 10.2 percent in the three
months ended December, the smallest since the quarter ended June
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, mirroring a slump
in  capital spending  in its home market.  India’s capital-goods production, a  gauge  of corporate
expenditure on factories and machinery, has shrunk in 16 out of
the 19 months through January, according to the latest available
data. The government estimates gross domestic product probably
rose 5 percent in the year ended March 31, the least since 2003.  India’s Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said April
6 a new cabinet panel on investment will meet this month for the
fourth time to speed up approval of oil and gas, road, rail and
other infrastructure works to boost GDP growth. GMR
Infrastructure Ltd. threatened to walk out of a highway project
in January, citing delays. Larsen was one of the sub-
contractors.  Hurt Margins  As local projects remain stalled, competition overseas may
erode margins, said Anik Das, a Kolkata-based analyst at
Microsec Capital Ltd.  “Everyone everywhere is looking at new markets,” said
Das, who has a buy rating on the stock. “There’s a definite
element of margins getting compressed.”  Larsen shares fell 0.4 percent to 1,320.30 rupees in Mumbai
today, reversing earlier gains of as much as 2.9 percent.  The company reported an 11.6 percent operating margin in
the year ended March 31, 2012. That compares with  Hyundai
Engineering & Construction Co. (000720) ’s 4 percent and China State
Construction Engineering Corp.’s 5.7 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Indian builder may report a profit of 48.2 billion
rupees for the year ended March 31, from 44.6 billion rupees a
year earlier, according to the median of 39 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. In the current year, that may increase to
52.8 billion rupees, the median of 41 analysts’ estimates shows.  Local Airports  Subrahmanyan said Larsen will look at bidding for
infrastructure projects in Africa too. The company has already
built factories, roads, power transmission lines and generation
plants in Kenya, Mozambique, Suriname and Tanzania, according to
the company’s  website .  Larsen will separately bid for local airport construction
work from state-owned Airports Authority of India, he said.  India is building airports that can handle 370 million
passengers by 2017, from 240 million last year.  Asia ’s third-
largest economy needs about $12 billion investments in airport
infrastructure in the five years to 2017, according to the
Planning Commission, a government body that designs five-year
economic and social programs.  The company built the  airports  in Bangalore, Hyderabad,
Mumbai and  New Delhi . It’s currently constructing a facility at
Chandigarh for Airports Authority, Subrahmanyan said.  Larsen won contracts worth 195 billion rupees ($3.6
billion) in the third quarter, taking the total order book to
1.62 trillion rupees. The builder was last month barred from
World Bank-financed contracts for six months through Sept. 6
under the lender’s fraud and corruption policy.  “In the short term, the strategy to look overseas makes
sense, but in the longer term they’ll have to get back home,”
Microsec’s Das said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at   anandk@bloomberg.net  