-- Martifer Opens Five Projects in Record Quarter for U.K. Solar
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2013-04-08T16:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/martifer-opens-five-projects-in-record-quarter-for-u-k-solar.html
Martifer SGPS SA (MAR) ,  Portugal ’s second-
largest renewable energy developer, plans to build more U.K.
solar parks after completing its first five and after a record
quarter for the industry in the island nation.  The company opened photovoltaic plants in southwestern
 England  with a combined 28.1 megawatts and plans to develop a
similar amount this year, said Joao Cunha, U.K. country manager.
The plants, completed in the last week of March, were sold to
 Lightsource Renewable Energy Ltd.  for an average 1.2 million
pounds ($1.8 million) a megawatt, he said.  “The U.K. solar market is quite attractive, even with the
lower banding” since April 1, Cunha said in an interview today.
“It’s reliable and predictable.” About 1,000 to 1,100
megawatts in new capacity is expected here this year, he said.  Developers in the U.K. rushed to complete solar parks
before subsidy cuts started in April. Plants totaling at least
350 megawatts were built in the first quarter, including a
record number of large ground-based projects, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. About 800 megawatts were built in
the whole of 2012, mostly on residential rooftops.  So-called renewable obligation certificates, or green
certificates, that ground-mounted solar projects earn for each
megawatt of power generated were cut to 1.6 from 2 on April 1,
reducing earnings for investors.  Martifer’s solar parks, located in Cornwall, Hampshire,
Devon and Wiltshire, have 4.4 megawatts to 6.6 megawatts of
capacity each and use  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. Ltd. (YGE) 
panels, according to Cunha. Martifer plans to choose further
sites for projects by the end of the month, he said.  The company, which builds solar parks on four continents,
began working on the U.K. projects in early 2011. Martifer,
based in Oliveira de Frades, will operate the facilities for
Lightsource, a London-based solar energy generator.  Portugal’s biggest developer of clean-energy projects is
 EDP Renovaveis SA. (EDPR)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  