-- Asian Stocks Rise on BOJ; China, Taiwan Fall on Bird Flu
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-04-08T11:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/asian-stocks-gain-led-by-japan-shares-on-boj-stimulus.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the Nikkei
225 Stock Average climbing to a 4 1/2-year high after the  Bank
of Japan (8301) ’s unprecedented stimulus. Chinese and Taiwanese shares
fell after more infections from a deadly new strain of bird flu.  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s biggest carmaker, gained
4.1 percent as the yen weakened to its lowest level since June
2009 and all but seven of the companies on the Japanese gauge
advanced. EVA Airways Corp.,  Taiwan ’s second-largest carrier,
slumped the most in 21 months in Taipei, dragging the nation’s
equities benchmark to the biggest slump since June.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index gained 0.5 percent to 134.15 as
of 8:18 p.m. in  Tokyo . The yen’s weakness muted the impact on
the dollar-denominated regional benchmark index of a surge in
Tokyo-listed companies. The measure has advanced the last five
months as Japanese shares increased on speculation the nation
will deploy more stimulus and amid signs the  U.S. economy  is
recovering.  “With the currency weakening to the 98 yen per dollar
range, it’s almost 10 yen weaker than manufacturer estimates, so
exporters earnings may come in above expectations this earnings
season,” said  Norihiro Fujito , a senior investment strategist
at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The
speed at which the Japanese currency weakens is getting harder
to control by the government. That’s something that may be a
concern in the mid-term.”  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 added 2.8 percent in local currency
terms and rose 1.4 percent when priced in U.S. dollars, after
unprecedented stimulus from the  Bank of Japan ’s new leadership
sparked a surge in Japanese shares. Trading volume was about 36
percent higher than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Bond Purchases  BOJ officials said April 4 the central bank will increase
its monthly bond purchases to 7.5 trillion yen ($76 billion),
exceeding the 5.2 trillion yen forecast by economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. They also suspended a cap on some bond holdings
and dropped a limit on debt maturities. They set a two-year
horizon for their goal of 2 percent inflation. Officials are
working to end 15 years of deflation.  Japanese exporters advanced. Toyota gained 4.1 percent to
5,300 yen, increasing for a fourth day.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , which
gets about 80 percent of its sales outside of Japan, rose 3.7
percent to 3,805 yen. The yen fell to 99.01 per dollar. A
decline in the currency boosts the value of Japanese export
earnings when repatriated.  ‘Strong Leadership’  What was “surprising was that the BOJ board voted almost
unanimously for these significant moves in such a short time
after the leadership change -- indicating strong leadership by
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda,” said  Michael Kurtz , Hong-Kong based
head of global equity strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s
largest brokerage. “These developments should all lend strong
support to Japanese equities. Even though monetary policy may
now remain unchanged for a while, the BOJ stands ready to take
further action in the case of any loss of economic momentum,
financial-market  volatility  or yen strengthening.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.2
percent. The gauge dropped 0.4 percent April 5 after data showed
the U.S. economy added less than half the number of jobs
economists forecast in March.  Taiwan’s  Taiex Index  retreated 2.4 percent as the market
reopened after a holiday on April 4 and April 5 as stocks
reacted to the bird-flu outbreak. That’s the biggest drop in 10
months. EVA Airways slumped 6.8 percent to NT$16.45.  More Infections  China  tried to ease concerns that a new strain of bird
influenza will spark an epidemic as authorities reported three
more infections of the deadly H7N9 virus that’s killed six
people since March. The outbreak of the virus caused soybean
futures and shares of Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong to
fall April 5 amid concern the disease will hurt demand in the
world’s second-largest economy.  “There’s going to be near-term pressure no matter how you
cut it,” said Marco Li, Hong Kong-based portfolio manager at
Manulife Asset Management, which oversees $238 billion. “You
have this overhang now, and until you get clarity, people will
see that as a potential risk for further exacerbation.”  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index was little changed. China’s
Shanghai Composite dropped 0.6 percent, paring a drop of as much
as 2 percent as it reopened after a holiday. The Shanghai
measure has slumped in the past two months amid concern steps to
cool property prices will drag on economic growth.  Airlines Rebound  Airlines listed in Hong Kong rebounded after slumping April
5. Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., Asia’s largest international
carrier, rose 4.1 percent to HK$12.78.  China Southern Airlines
Co. (1055)  increased 3.4 percent to HK$4 and Air China Ltd., the
nation’s biggest carrier by market value, jumped 4.5 percent to
HK$6.32.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.3 percent and  South
Korea ’s  Kospi index  slid 0.4 percent.  New Zealand ’s NZX 50 Index
retreated 0.8 percent and  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index lost
0.4 percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP) ’s 3.2 percent advance his year
through April 5 left the measure trading at 13.6 times  estimated
earnings , compared with a multiple of 14 for the S&P 500 and
12.3 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  