-- Asian Soccer-Head Candidate Pledges to Clean Up Body’s Image
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-04-08T11:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/asian-soccer-head-candidate-pledges-to-clean-up-body-s-image.html
Yousuf Al Serkal, a candidate to
replace the banned head of Asian soccer, today promised to
introduce new transparency measures such as publishing his
financial benefits if he’s voted into office.  He said he’d also set up a whistle-blower helpline to
encourage the exposure of wrongdoing.  Al Serkal, who heads the United Arab Emirates’ federation,
is competing with soccer heads of  Thailand , Saudi Arabia and
Bahrain for the Asian Football Confederation post. It will be
decided at the 47-member AFC’s extraordinary congress in Kuala
Lumpur on May 2.  The election follows the resignation of former AFC
President Mohamed  Bin Hammam  in December. Bin Hammam will never
work in soccer again, world global body FIFA said, after an
ethics investigation found the Qatari violated its ethics code
with alleged conflicts of interest during his time as AFC
president and as a member of the FIFA executive committee in
2008-2011. Bin Hammam denied wrongdoing.  “If I am successful, I will lead the way to make the AFC
much more transparent with improved governance, in order that we
regain the integrity of the game in Asia,” said Al Serkal, who
launched his campaign manifesto today. “It is important that I
lead by example, and so I will publicly declare all allowances
and benefits given to me by the confederation, and expenditure
incurred by my office.”  Soccer’s governance has come under scrutiny worldwide in
recent times following corruption scandals at global and
regional levels.  World Cups  FIFA members will in May vote on whether to adopt a raft of
reform programs following allegations of malfeasance against
several members of its executive board during the selection
process for the 2018 and 2022 World Cups and also for the
organization’s presidency in 2011. Bin Hammam, the sole
challenger to President Sepp Blatter, pulled out a day before
FIFA started an investigation into claims he attempted to bribe
voters in the Caribbean.  Asia has also been the center of match-fixing rings that
have attempted to corrupt officials across the world, according
to Interpol and Europol. Last week three Lebanese match
officials were charged by authorities in  Singapore  with
accepting sexual favors as an inducement to fix a game.  At a meeting with reporters in Dubai following his campaign
launch, Al Serkal said if elected he’d make all the AFC’s
commercial contracts available for its members to scrutinize and
hire auditors to look at current agreements. Last July the AFC
said it found irregularities in its finances after accounting
firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP carried out a forensic audit of
its books.  Report Irregularities  Al Serkal said among the measures he’ll propose would be a
whistle-blower helpline to allow “players and officials to
report in absolute confidence any irregularities -- whether in
match-fixing or any issue relating to football.”  He also pledged to distribute more funds to smaller members
of the confederation, a tactic employed by Blatter when he was
first elected as FIFA head in 1998. Al Serkal met with Blatter
at FIFA’s headquarters in Zurich last month, and feels he has
the Swiss administrator’s “blessing.”  “I firmly believe that we are at our strongest when all 47
members stand as one,” he said. “So I will appeal to the more
economically and technically mature associations to work in
solidarity, to ensure greater benefits to the majority of
associations.”  Bin Hammam was the most important figure in Asian soccer
for almost a decade after being elected AFC president for the
first time in 2002. Al Serkal said the two remain friends, and
Bin Hammam said in a text message to Bloomberg News that Al
Serkal would be his favored candidate.  FIFA Executive  “That friendship had nothing to do with the work that we
used to do,” the AFC presidential hopeful said. I always had
different ideas and opinions and had conflict with him and
raised issues in meeting. I keep friendship separate from
work.”  The AFC presidency doesn’t guarantee a position on FIFA’s
decision-making executive board, and if Al Serkal wins he’ll be
the only head of soccer’s six continental governing bodies not
represented on that body.  Bin Hammam’s FIFA seat is being contested in a separate
election featuring Qatar World Cup head Hassan Al Thawadi and
Bahrain’s Sheikh Salman bin Ibrahim Al Khalifa, who is also
standing for the AFC presidency along with FIFA executive member
Worawi Makudi of Thailand. Hafez Al Medlej, the Saudi candidate
for the AFC post, has hinted he may withdraw before the vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at  zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 