-- AT&T Joins Boeing Backing Cyber Bill Facing Privacy Fight
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m   a n d   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2013-04-09T13:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/at-t-joins-boeing-backing-cyber-bill-facing-privacy-fight.html
(Corrects Senate bill in ninth paragraph of April 8
story.)  The House Intelligence Committee
will add privacy safeguards to a cybersecurity proposal in an
effort to win support of President  Barack Obama  and other
lawmakers, the panel’s top Republican and Democrat said.  Committee Chairman Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican, and
the panel’s top Democrat, C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger of
Maryland, told reporters today they will support at least five
amendments to the bill, which provides lawsuit immunity sought
by companies including  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Boeing Co. (BA)   The changes include requiring the government to minimize
collection of information that could identify citizens in the
process of sharing cyber threat data with the private sector,
Rogers and Ruppersberger said on a phone call. The lawmakers
said they also want a provision saying companies only can use
cybersecurity data to protect their networks, not for marketing
purposes.  “The improvements that we plan to make to the bill at the
markup will address several of the administration’s concerns,”
Rogers said. “And we plan to keep talking and moving toward a
consensus that will allow us to get the bill signed into law.”  The Intelligence Committee has scheduled an April 10
closed-door meeting to vote on the amendments and the measure.
Obama threatened to veto the bill last year partly over privacy
concerns.  The White House hasn’t said whether it supports the bill
with revisions, Ruppersberger said.  Privacy Protections  Other changes include denying firms legal protections if
they use cyber threat information to hack each other; dropping
language allowing agencies to use information for national
security purposes; and creating roles for the government’s
privacy and civil liberties board and federal privacy officers
to review how information is shared and used, Rogers and
Ruppersberger said.  Congress is renewing its push to improve U.S. digital
defenses as warnings increase about computer attacks. A Feb. 19
report from security firm Mandiant Corp. concluded the Chinese
army may be behind a hacking group that has hit at least 141
companies worldwide since 2006.  The  legislation , called the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and
Protection Act, passed the House 248 to 168 last April. A
different cybersecurity bill didn’t advance in the Senate, where
it was blocked by Republicans who said it would lead to
regulation.  Rogers has said Obama’s cybersecurity executive order in
February, which sets up a system of voluntary computer-defense
standards for critical industries, created an opening to pass an
information-sharing bill.  Corporate Support  Many of the House bill’s corporate supporters are among the
top 20 contributors to Rogers’ 2011-2012 campaign committee,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-
based research group. They include AT&T,  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ) , Boeing and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  employees and their
families.  Ruppersberger’s top contributors in the same period also
include Boeing and Lockheed employees and their families,
according to the center.  “Boeing supports candidates with whom we have alignment on
issues of importance to the company,” Gayla Keller, a Boeing
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  “With 82 percent of our company’s sales derived from U.S.
government customers, we naturally have interactions with
virtually every standing committee in the United States
Congress” that has agency oversight, Rob Fuller, a Lockheed
Martin spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Michael Balmoris, an AT&T spokesman, didn’t respond to a
request for comment. Edward McFadden, a Verizon spokesman,
declined to comment.  Personal Data  The  American Civil Liberties Union  and other advocacy
groups have stoked online opposition to the House bill, saying
it would allow Americans’ personal data to be shared with the
National Security Agency and the military. The ACLU also
objected to allowing the government to use data for undefined
“national security” purposes.  Michelle Richardson, ACLU legislative counsel, called the
bill a “privacy disaster.” Congress should focus on “smarter
alternatives,” she said in an interview before Rogers and
Ruppersberger announced the amendments.  The proposed changes don’t include putting a civilian
agency such as the Homeland Security Department in charge of
information sharing, a priority of privacy advocates.  Representative Adam Schiff, a California Democrat on the
committee, said he would introduce an amendment requiring
companies to try to remove personal data before sharing.  Senate Action  Caitlin Hayden, a White House spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the House bill, referring to previous statements that
cyber legislation should guard privacy, reinforce the
appropriate roles of civilian and intelligence agencies, and
include “targeted” liability protections for companies.  A Feb. 13  petition  on the White House website protesting
the Rogers bill’s lax privacy protections has gathered 100,000
signatures, the threshold to trigger a White House response.
Hayden declined to say how or when the White House would
respond.  The House bill’s chances of passage depend on what action
the Senate takes, and Senate committee leaders haven’t yet
decided on their cybersecurity strategy.  “The bill doesn’t really go very far until the Senate has
something that can match it, and they’re not close to that,”
said  James Lewis , technology program director at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in Washington.  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and some technology trade
groups that endorsed the original House legislation have been
more tepid this year.  Facebook ‘Encouraged’  Facebook, owner of the world’s largest social network, said
in a letter last year the legislation “helps provide a more
established structure for sharing within the cyber community
while still respecting the privacy rights and expectations of
our users.”  Asked for Facebook’s current position, spokeswoman Jodi Seth said in an e-mailed statement the company is “encouraged”
by the House interest and seeks a “legislative balance” that
promotes information sharing and ensures the privacy of its
users.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in  Washington  at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  