-- Bank of Canada Poll Shows Sales Optimism and Investment Curbs
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-04-08T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/bank-of-canada-poll-shows-sales-optimism-and-investment-curbs.html
Canadian businesses showed more
optimism about sales growth in the first quarter while curbing
plans to invest, a central bank survey showed.  The  balance  of opinion for sales over the next 12 months
rose to 24 percentage points in the Bank of Canada’s survey of
about 100 executives, from readings of 16 and zero in the last
two reports. Investment intentions declined to a balance of 12
from 20, the Bank of Canada said today.  “Given ongoing concerns about domestic and global demand,
firms generally expect any improvement in sales growth to be
only modest,” the Ottawa-based bank said in the Business
Outlook Survey taken Feb. 19 to March 14. “Many firms indicated
that uncertainty is having some influence on their investment
plans, leading them to postpone some projects.”  Governor Mark Carney is relying on investment and exports
to lead an expansion through next year as record consumer debts
curb the housing market. Policy makers who have kept their key
 interest rate  at 1 percent since September 2010 will do so again
at an April 17 policy meeting and probably into next year,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The bank’s main goal is keeping inflation at the midpoint
of a 1 percent to 3 percent target band, and “expectations have
been gradually shifting into the lower portion of that range,”
today’s report said. Sixty-one percent of those asked said
inflation will advance at a rate of between 1 percent and 2
percent over the next two years, up from 54 percent in the last
survey and from 28 percent in the first quarter of 2012.  Meeting Demand  The consumer price  index  rose 1.2 percent in February from
a year earlier and has lagged the central bank’s 2 percent
target since May.  The percentage of companies saying they would have “some”
or “significant” difficulty meeting an unexpected increase in
demand was 37 percent in the first quarter, little changed from
the prior reading of 34 percent, the central bank said.  On employment, the balance of opinion increased to 32
percent from 28 percent.  Executives said that credit conditions tightened in the
first quarter, with a balance of opinion of 6 percentage points.
The balance of opinion subtracts the share of executives
predicting easier conditions from those calling for tightening.  A separate survey of  senior lending officers  had a balance
of opinion of negative 5.8 percentage points, suggesting easier
credit conditions. That measure has shown easing in each quarter
since the end of 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  