-- Bank of Israel Buys Dollars as Shekel Jumps to 18-Month High
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r   a n d   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-04-08T15:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/bank-of-israel-buys-dollars-as-shekel-climbs-to-18-month-high.html
The Bank of  Israel  bought U.S.
dollars for the first time in almost two years in a bid to
weaken the shekel after the currency rallied to an almost 18-
month high, traders said. The shekel pared gains.  The central bank bought at least $100 million, said Moshe Nir, a trader at Mercantile Discount Bank Ltd. in Tel Aviv. Rony Gitlin, head of spot trading at Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. in Tel
Aviv, confirmed the purchases while declining to give an
estimate on the amount. The Bank of Israel, which last
intervened in July 2011, confirmed in a  statement  on its website
that it had “acted” in the currency market today.  “With the shekel at these levels the central bank felt
that it had to step in,” Nir said. “It’s pretty significant
given the bank’s absence from the market for so long.”  The shekel climbed as much as 1.1 percent to 3.5898 a
dollar before trading 0.2 percent higher at 3.6213 per dollar by
11:07 a.m. in New York. The currency was the best performer over
the past six months among 31 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, as gas production began on March 30, improving the
current-account balance by as much as $3 billion this year,
according to the central bank.  Governor Stanley Fischer, who will step down at the end of
June, is credited by some economists with helping the nation
weather the world financial crisis by buying foreign currency to
curb shekel strength and support exports. Reserves, which stood
at $77.3 billion at the end of February, more than  doubled as a
result of the purchases, which ended in July 2011.  Export Effect  The Israel Export Institute this month urged the central
bank to resume currency buying as exports, making up about 40
percent of the economy, fell by an annualized 6.5 percent in the
fourth quarter. Economic growth eased to 2.4 percent, the
slowest pace in more than three years.  The shekel’s gain has also been partly driven by the Bank
of Israel’s decision to hold its key borrowing rate at 1.75
percent for a third month in March, giving the nation’s
relatively higher rates than its main trading partners, the U.S.
and  Europe .  One-year interest-rate swaps , an indicator of
investor expectations for rates over the period, increased three
basis points to 1.61 percent.  U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry today arrived in Israel
to revive Middle East peace negotiations by floating a 2002
Saudi-inspired plan to Israeli and Palestinian leaders.
President  Barack Obama  has charged Kerry with restarting talks
between the Palestinians and Israel. In Istanbul, Kerry
yesterday publicly urged  Turkey  to mend ties quickly with
Israel.  Foreign Interest  “The efforts to bring stability to the region and to lower
geopolitical risk is another positive driving gains in the
shekel,” Eytan Admoni, head of the international department at
 Bank of Jerusalem (JBNK)  Ltd., said today by phone before the central
bank intervention. “We are seeing interest in the currency from
foreign banks.”  The yield on the country’s 4.25 percent benchmark notes due
March 2023 fell seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to
3.8 percent after demand rose at a state debt auction. Investors
sought 6.7 times the 250 million shekels ($69 million) of the
benchmark bonds sold at the auction, up from 3.8 times the same
amount offered last week, ministry data posted on Bloomberg
show. The Finance Ministry sold a combined 1.3 billion shekels
of bonds at the auction.  Annual inflation, which was steady at 1.5 percent in
February, may average 2.39 percent in the next year, according
to the one-year break-even rate. The rate, which reflects the
yield difference between inflation-linked bonds and fixed-rate
government debt of similar maturity, fell four basis points to
237. The government’s target range is between 1 percent and 3
percent.  Israel posted a deficit of 4.6 billion shekels in the first
quarter of this year compared with 1.6 billion shekels during
the same period last year, the Finance Ministry said today. The
Tel-Bond 40 Index of corporate bonds declined 0.1 percent to
286.31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  