-- BlackRock’s Hayes Says to Shun Riskier Munis on Rising Rates
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-04-08T22:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/blackrock-s-hayes-says-to-shun-riskier-munis-on-rising-rates.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
asset manager, suggests scaling back on lower-rated municipal
debt even as the bonds rally the most in almost five years.  Investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal market are buying
riskier issues for their higher yields as  interest rates  on 20-
year bonds remain below their five-decade average. The extra
yield investors demand to buy 10-year tax-exempt munis rated
BBB, or eight steps below top-grade debt, has shrunk to  0.97
percentage point , close to the least since September 2008, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The rising demand presents an opportunity to reduce
holdings as signs of a strengthening economy raise the prospect
that interest rates will rise this year, said  Peter Hayes ,
BlackRock’s head of munis. The New York-based firm oversees
about $109 billion in local securities.  “If you’ve taken too much risk in high-yield, it’s a good
time to take some risk off the table there because you have to
take advantage of liquidity while it’s good,” Hayes said at a
media briefing at the firm’s Manhattan office. “And liquidity
is still very good in that market.”  The securities are delivering earnings that are more than
double the broader muni market. High-yield munis earned 14.6
percent in the past 12 months, compared with about 6 percent for
all munis, according to Barclays Plc data.  Gains Erode  Higher interest rates will erode those gains, Hayes said.  He anticipates 10-year Treasury yields will increase to
about 2.2 percent by year-end from 1.75 percent today.  Yields on 20-year general obligations were  3.96 percent 
last week, below the 5.86 percent average since January 1961,
according to a Bond Buyer index.  Hayes suggests buying munis with a higher credit grade,
from four to six levels below top-rated securities, which still
carry loftier yields yet have lower  default risk  than munis
rated junk.  From 1970 to 2011, an average of 7.9 percent of munis that
were sold a decade or more earlier and had a junk rating from
Moody’s Investors Service defaulted, compared with 0.08 percent
for investment grade.  When interest rates climb, investors will move back to
higher-rated securities and away from speculative-grade munis,
Hayes said. Yields on junk debt would then need to increase to
bring in other investors, Hayes said.  “Once rates go up, high-yield rates will have to adjust to
attract  hedge funds  and other type of non-traditional muni
buyers,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  