-- BMC Software to Cut Jobs, Sees Pretax Costs of Up to $38 Million
-- B y   J i l l i a n   W a r d
-- 2013-04-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/bmc-software-to-cut-jobs-sees-pretax-costs-of-up-to-38-million.html
BMC Software Inc. (BMC) , a maker of
software that manages corporate  computer networks , said it plans
to cut jobs after a review of its operations, resulting in
pretax charges of $33 million to $38 million.  The costs for severance and termination will be recorded
mostly in the quarter that ended in March and the current
period, the Houston-based company said in a regulatory filing
yesterday. BMC didn’t specify the number of jobs it is
eliminating.  The cuts will come from business units and corporate
functions across geographies, the company said. BMC had 6,900
full-time employees as of March 31, 2012, filings show. The
company sells software that lets information-technology
departments better manage fleets of servers and mainframes,
configuring new machines and applying updates to older ones.  In a separate filing, activist investor Elliott Associates
LP said its standstill agreement with BMC ended on April 6, and
the firm reserves the right to further talks with the software
company. BMC faced pressure from Elliott last year to consider a
sale, and in July added two directors chosen by Elliott. Elliott
is BMC’s second-largest  shareholder , with a 9.6 percent stake,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BMC has attracted renewed buyout interest from private-
equity funds, people with knowledge of the matter said last
month. The renewed interest stemmed from the pending expiration
of Elliott’s standstill agreement, allowing the investor to
continue to push its agenda, one of the people said.  Shares of BMC rose as high as $44.75 in extended trading.
The stock had fallen 1.5 percent to $44.45 at yesterday’s close,
and has gained 12 percent in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jillian Ward in  San Francisco  at 
 jward56@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  