-- BMW Partners With India’s TVS to Build New Motorcycle Series
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n
-- 2013-04-08T11:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/bmw-partners-with-india-s-tvs-to-build-new-motorcycle-series.html
BMW Motorrad, the motorcycle arm of
the world’s biggest luxury carmaker, agreed to partner with
 India ’s  TVS Motor Co. (TVSL)  to develop a series of bikes with engine
sizes below 500 cubic centimeters.  In the deal with the  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  unit both
companies will sell the motorcycles through their own channels,
TVS said in a statement to India’s National Stock Exchange
today.  “In view of changing motorcycle markets, demographic
developments and increasing environmental demands we are
expanding our product range so as to tap into fresh growth
potential,” Stephan Schaller, head of BMW Motorrad, said in the
statement. “This means that in future we will be able to offer
vehicles in smaller capacity classes in addition to the BMW
Motorrad core segments.”  TVS, whose biggest motorcycle is the 180cc Apache, will
gain access to bigger-engine technology to help stem market
share losses to  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s local unit and  Yamaha Motor
Co. (7272)  in India. The country’s fourth-largest bike maker lost the
third rank to Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India Ltd. in the
year ended March 31, 2012, according to data from the  Society of
Indian Automobile Manufacturers .  TVS will invest 20 million euros ($26 million) in the
partnership, Chairman Venu Srinivasan said at a news conference
in Chennai, India today, and the first product will be ready in
2015, he said. The project will entail two TVS models,
Srinivasan said.  Shares of TVS Motor rose 10 percent to 39.75 rupees at the
close in Mumbai, climbing for a fourth day. The shares have lost
5 percent this year, valuing the Chennai-based manufacturer at
18.9 billion rupees ($346 million).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Ganesh Nagarajan in  Chennai  at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  