-- Boeing’s Final 787 Test Sets Stage for FAA Battery Review
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-04-08T07:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/boeing-s-final-787-test-sets-stage-for-faa-battery-review.html
ANA Holdings Inc. (9202) , the biggest
Boeing Co. 787 operator, rose in  Tokyo  trading after test
flights of the grounded aircraft were completed, bringing the
jet closer to returning to service.  ANA advanced 1.6 percent to 194 yen as of the 3 p.m. close
of trading in Tokyo today.  GS Yuasa Corp. (6674) , the Japanese maker of
batteries that overheated and led to the grounding of the
planes, known as Dreamliners, rose 1.1 percent.  Boeing completed the test on April 5 and said it will
analyze flight data and submit the required materials to the
U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  “in the coming days.” The
FAA must decide whether the redesigned lithium-ion batteries are
safe after electrical failures on a  Japan Airlines Co. (9201)  plane in
Boston and during an ANA flight in  Japan .  “The company most sensitive to news about Boeing’s 787 is
the biggest operator of the planes, ANA,” said  Ryota Himeno , an
analyst at Barclays Securities Japan Ltd. “The completion of
the test flight is being taken as a good sign and leading to
buying of the stock.”  ANA, whose All Nippon Airways Co. unit has 17 Dreamliners,
said in January the groundings would cut that month’s sales by
1.4 billion yen ($14 million). The carrier has canceled a total
of 3,601 flights through May 31 because of the grounding.  The Tokyo-based company is targeting a restart of flights
in June, President Shinichiro Ito told reporters last week.  Restart Decision  U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood on April 5
declined to say when he will decide whether to end the
grounding.  “I know you wanted something more definitive,” LaHood
said after speaking at a conference in  Washington  sponsored by
the Export-Import Bank of the U.S. “So does  Boeing. (BA) ”  Boeing must convince regulators the Dreamliner and its
battery upgrade are safe before flights can resume, LaHood said.
The planemaker’s proposed fix, on which the FAA signed off in
March, “was a good plan,” and regulators are now waiting to
see the results, he said.  The Dreamliner flight lasted 1 hour, 49 minutes after
takeoff from Paine Field in Everett, Washington. Two FAA
officials were aboard the 787, a LOT Polish Airlines SA plane
that has made three unrelated check flights with the new system
since March 25, according to Boeing.  “The purpose of the flight was to demonstrate that the new
battery system performs as intended during normal and non-normal
flight conditions,” Chicago-based Boeing said in a statement on
April 5.  Overheating Batteries  On Jan. 7 a fire was discovered outside a lithium-ion
battery on a JAL 787 parked at  Boston ’s airport. A week later a
smoking cell prompted an emergency landing by an ANA flight in
Japan.  Boeing’s ground tests included overheating the system to
evaluate a stainless-steel enclosure designed to eliminate the
possibility of fire and a tube that would vent any liquid or
vapors outside the plane. The design also increases the spacing
and insulation for the power cells to prevent the spread of any
overheating and includes new circuitry for the battery chargers.  The batteries are made by GS Yuasa Corp., based in Kyoto,
Japan. Boeing has sent engineers to the country, home to the
biggest 787 fleets, to get ready to install the upgraded units,
according to  Marc Birtel , a Boeing spokesman. That work takes
four to five days to complete on each plane.  If the FAA approves the changes and returns the 787 to
commercial duty, Boeing has said it will make the battery
upgrades to aircraft in roughly the order that they were
delivered to customers. All Nippon and Japan Airlines were the
first two customers and operate 24 of the 49 jets in service.  While a cause for the Dreamliner battery malfunctions
hasn’t been determined, Boeing said during a March 15
presentation that the changes to the design will ensure safe
operations. The company has halted deliveries until commercial
service resumes and may face financial penalties from customers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  