-- Bonds Cheapest in 7 Months Propel Treasury Sales: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-04-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/bonds-cheapest-in-7-months-propel-treasury-sales-muni-credit.html
U.S municipal debt is the cheapest
in seven months relative to Treasuries, luring buyers such as
Deutsche Bank AG and signaling demand for local bonds as states
and cities are poised for their biggest issuance week of 2013.  At  1.93 percent , yields on 10-year benchmark munis compare
with the  1.71 percent  interest rate on Treasuries with a similar
maturity, data compiled by Bloomberg show. A rally in federal
debt following a weaker-than-projected U.S. labor report pushed
the ratio between the two yields to  113 percent , the highest
since August.  That figure is a measure of relative value between the two
asset classes, and it has climbed high enough to lure Deutsche
Bank’s private-wealth unit in New York, which manages $12
billion of bonds. Last week, the group sold five- and 10-year
Treasuries and bought tax-exempts, said Gary Pollack, head of
fixed-income trading at the group, an affiliate of  Europe ’s
second-largest bank.  “It’s attractive enough given the supply and demand
dynamics to warrant a crossover trade,” he said in an
interview.  Calendar Crush  California ’s $2 billion tax-exempt deal and a $2 billion
taxable Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund Finance Corp. sale
lead about $10 billion of planned offers this week, the biggest
 wave  since December in the $3.7 trillion municipal market,
Bloomberg data show.  States and cities are borrowing as  interest rates  on 20-
year general-obligations were  3.96 percent  last week, below the
52-year average of 5.88 percent, according to a Bond Buyer
index.  Treasuries gained April 5, pushing 10-year yields to the
lowest level in almost four months, after a Labor Department
report showed payrolls grew by 88,000 workers in March, the
least in nine months. The median forecast of 87 economists in a
Bloomberg survey was for an increase of 190,000.  Munis didn’t keep up in the rally and are trailing
Treasuries this month, earning 0.3 percent while federal debt
gained 0.6 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Investors are typically willing to accept lower yields on
local debt than on Treasuries because of munis’ tax-exempt
status. For 10-year maturities, muni yields have averaged about
93 percent of Treasury yields since 2001, highlighting the
appeal of the latest leap in the ratio.  Buyer Draw  “It brings in pension funds and other types of
institutional investors that don’t need tax-exempt income, so
that’s good for munis,” Pollack said.  The yield difference is even greater between munis rated
AA, two steps below the top, and federal debt. At 2.32 percent,
yields on 10-year munis rated AA are 126 percent of those on
benchmark Treasuries, Bloomberg data show.  “There are people out there who see munis as pretty
attractive,” said Clark Wagner, fixed-income director at First
Investors Management Co. in  New York , which manages $1.6 billion
of the obligations.  In the five-year trade, Pollack sold Treasuries and bought
a U.S. state rated AAA. He plans to reverse the deal when the
ratio falls back toward its historical average, “in the low
90s,” he said.  Tax Pattern  While the relative cheapness of tax-exempt debt may help
states and cities borrow this week, portfolio managers are still
dealing with falling demand from individuals as tax season winds
down.  Investors have pulled about $791 million from U.S. muni
mutual funds during the past five weeks, the most since year-
end, according to Lipper US Fund Flows data.  Outflows tend to occur as investors sell munis to make tax
payments before the April 15 filing deadline, Pollack said.  “Once you get past April 15, we get inflows,” Pollack
said.  The bulk of the withdrawals are coming from longer-dated
funds. Investors pulled about $1.1 billion in the five weeks
ending April 3 from funds with maturities greater than 10 years,
according to Lipper data. In the same period, funds focusing on
maturities from three to 10 years had about $3 million of
withdrawals.  As more muni investors avoid longer-dated debt, yields on
shorter maturities are falling faster.  Top-rated munis due in 30 years yield about  1.3 percentage
points  more than 10-year benchmarks, near the widest difference
since August, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  