-- Bovespa Advances as Batista’s MMX Rises Most in a Month
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-08T22:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/bovespa-index-drops-as-manufacturing-forecasts-are-cut.html
The Bovespa index advanced as  Eike
Batista ’s mining unit MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA surged after
Valor Economico reported the government is planning to help the
Brazilian billionaire’s struggling companies.  MMX gained the most in a month after reversing a decline of
6.3 percent. Oil producer OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA
ended the session 1.8 percent lower after plunging as much as 13
percent. LLX Logistica SA, his port company, ended down 5.4
percent after earlier sinking the most since August 2011. Gol
Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA advanced after the airline said
private equity firm General Atlantic LLC planned to invest in
the initial public offering of its mileage unit.  The Bovespa gained 0.1 percent to 55,092.31 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo, after falling as much as 1.3 percent.
Thirty-seven stocks rose on the measure while 29 declined. The
real fell 0.3 percent to 1.9918 per U.S. dollar. Brazil may help
Batista’s EBX Group through state-run Petroleo Brasileiro SA,
Valor reported without saying where it got the information.  “There’s news the government is in talks with Eike for
Petrobras to help in the Acu Port,” Luciano Rostagno, Banco
WestLB do Brasil’s chief strategist, said in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo. “The fact that the government might
help, I think that’s what caused the  Bovespa (IBOV)  to flip.”  MMX rose 7.3 percent to 2.06 reais. OGX closed at 1.68
reais. LLX fell ended the session at 1.93 reais. EBX’s press
office declined to comment on the Valor report when contacted by
phone. Press officials for the presidency, the energy and trade
ministries did not respond to requests for comment.  Gol gained 3.5 percent to 11.54 reais, the biggest one-day
gain since March 12.  ‘Good Time’  JBS SA (JBSS3) , the world’s biggest beef producer, rallied 4.4
percent to 6.69 reais, the most in three weeks, after JPMorgan
Chase & Co. raised its recommendation to the equivalent of buy.  “This may be a good time for investors with a six- to 12-
month time horizon to take a deeper look at the Brazilian meat
sector as valuations are starting to look more attractive,”
JPMorgan’s analysts including  New-York  based Alan Alanis wrote
in a note to clients.  JBS trades at 10.5 times its 2013 forecast earnings,
according to JPMorgan analysts. That compares with an average
ratio of 16.9 for global meat producers covered by the firm.  The Bovespa has retreated 13 percent from this year’s high
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The MSCI BRIC Index of shares in Brazil, Russia, India and China
has lost 8.9 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.3 for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 6.47 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.45 billion reais this year
through April 4, according to data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  