-- BP-Backed Skyonic Poised for Carbon Capture Funds on Shale Boom
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-04-08T11:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/bp-backed-skyonic-poised-for-carbon-capture-funds-on-shale-boom.html
Skyonic Corp., a carbon-capture
technology developer with investors including  BP Plc (BP/)  and
 ConocoPhillips (COP) , is about to obtain about $119 million to fund
its first commercial project, at a Texas cement plant.  The sum, $80 million in loans and $39 million in equity,
will support construction of Skyonic’s $125 million venture to
gather 75,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions a year
from Capitol Aggregates Inc.’s cement plant in  San Antonio ,
Skyonic Chief Executive Officer Joe Jones said in an interview
in  London . The Austin-based company declined to give further
details ahead of a signing for the funds.  Skyonic plans to profit from global efforts to curb CO2
emissions using technology to trap and “mineralize” the gas
into chemical byproducts to sell. Countries such as the U.K. and
U.S. are promoting methods of capturing pollution from factories
and power plants for underground storage or refining into
products. Carbon capture and storage is yet to operate with
power generation on a commercial scale.  “Our process produces hydrochloric acid, which is very
important because it feeds the shale rush,” Jones said.  The acid is pumped into the ground in so-called hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, to break apart shale formations and
unlock gas deposits. The fracking boom in the U.S. and  Canada 
has increased demand for the acid, doubling prices, Jones said.  Skyonic’s process also produces sodium bicarbonate or
baking soda that it will initially sell to the animal-feed
market. Skyonic has 10-year offtake agreements in place for its
products, Jones said.  Curb Emissions  Skyonic’s SkyMine technology will curb CO2 emissions from
the Capitol plant by about 15 percent by treating a portion of
the facility’s flue gas, he said. The process can remove more
than 90 percent of emissions from the gas it treats and Skyonic
has tested it at three pilot facilities.  The company already received $9 million from investors
including Northwater Capital Management Inc., ConocoPhillips and
BP for the plant, as well as $28 million in grants from the U.S.
Department of Energy. The facility will be in full production by
the end of 2014.  The company is in discussions with groups in Canada,  Russia 
and a Chinese steel company over potential partnerships for the
technology, which also eliminates sulfur dioxide and nitrogen
oxide, causes of acid rain, from burning fossil fuels.  Skyonic is developing a further version of the process
called SkyCycle that reduces the energy expended to carry out
the process, known as the energy penalty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  