-- BP’s Macondo Well Drilling Proper, Defense Witness Says
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-04-08T22:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/bp-drilled-safely-expert-says-as-spill-defense-begins.html
BP Plc (BP/)  followed proper safety
procedures in drilling the well that ultimately exploded in 2010
and sent millions of barrels of oil spewing into the  Gulf of
Mexico , an expert hired by the company testified.  The crew and managers of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig
followed “standard industry practices” in drilling the Macondo
oil well and performing safety tests on it,  Adam Bourgoyne , a
retired petroleum engineering professor, told a judge as the
opening witness in BP’s defense to claims it was grossly
negligent in its handling of the well.  A review of the rig’s operations found supervisors and crew
members took “extreme care to follow all the safety
procedures,” Bourgoyne told U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in
New Orleans today.  The testimony comes as BP starts its seventh week of a
trial over a push by  oil spill  victims and the U.S. for Barbier
to decide liability for the Deepwater Horizon explosion, which
led to the worst offshore spill in U.S. history.  The blast killed 11 workers and sent waves of oil into the
Gulf, killing fish and waterfowl. The accident sparked hundreds
of lawsuits against well owner BP; Houston-based  Halliburton
Co. (HAL) ; and Vernier, Switzerland-based  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the
Deepwater Horizon’s owner.  The liability trial began Feb. 25. Barbier must determine
whether one or more of the companies acted with willful or
wanton misconduct or reckless indifference -- the legal
requirement for establishing gross negligence.  Punitive Damages  For BP, a finding of gross negligence would mean the
company might be liable to the U.S. for more than $17 billion in
Clean Water Act fines, as well as unspecified punitive damages
to claimants who weren’t part of the $8.5 billion settlement the
company reached with most private-party plaintiffs last year.  Transocean and Halliburton could be held liable for
punitive damages for all plaintiffs if the companies are found
to have handled their duties on the rig in a grossly negligent
manner.  Lawyers for the U.S. and spill victims have argued BP was
over budget and behind schedule on the deep-water Macondo well
off the  Louisiana  coast, prompting the  oil company  to cut
corners and ignore safety tests showing the well was unstable.  They also allege Halliburton’s cement job was defective and
that Transocean employees made a series of missteps on the rig,
including disabling safety systems, failing to properly maintain
the installation and not adequately training its crew to handle
crisis situations.  Drilling Margins  Lawyers for the government and spill victims produced
witnesses earlier in the trial to testify BP officials misled
federal regulators about conditions at the Macondo well and
forged ahead with “unsafe and dangerous” drilling operations
before the fatal explosion.  Alan Huffman , a a Houston-based petroleum geophysicist
hired by the government to review the disaster, testified BP
officials misreported well pressures at the Macondo site to
government regulators and misled them about the safety of the
project. He also found the company didn’t keep safe “drilling
margins” and that contributed to the fatal blast.  Bourgoyne was hired by BP to do an internal probe of the
Macondo drilling operations and his findings countered those of
Huffman and other experts hired by the government and spill
victims.  ‘Appropriate Tests’  BP’s expert said the company conducted “appropriate
tests” as it drilled farther into the Gulf floor and reported
the results to the government. He added that questions about the
drilling margins BP employed played no role in the explosion.  “I don’t think that it’s related at all,” Burgoyne told
the judge.  Still, Bourgoyne acknowledged BP supervisors and Transocean
employees who staffed the Deepwater Horizon botched safety tests
on the well just hours before the fatal blast.  Richard Heenan , a Canadian engineer who has supervised off-
shore drilling projects, testified on behalf of the government
and spill victims the rig’s crew misinterpreted a negative-
pressure test that showed the well was unstable.  Heenan told Barbier his investigation of the disaster
showed Transocean’s second-highest ranking crewman convinced the
rest of the installation’s staff that the irregular test results
could have been the result of extreme pressure on valves rather
than an indication of leaks.  ‘Group Decision’  “They called it a pass when it was a fail,” Bourgoyne
said. The former engineering professor added he was surprised
that a group of such experienced oil-rig workers and supervisors
“bought into” the crewman’s explanation for the anomalous
pressure readings.  “I think it was a group decision,’ he said. ‘‘They had a
lot of confidence in one another, and once they made the
decision, they were convinced they were right.’’  The misinterpreted safety test played a role in criminal
guilty pleas entered by both BP and Transocean, as well as in
criminal charges pending against two BP well-site leaders who
were on the rig.  BP agreed in November to pay $4 billion and plead guilty to
14 criminal counts, including 11 for felony seaman’s
manslaughter, to resolve a federal criminal probe of its role in
the spill. The company also paid $525 million to settle the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission’s claim that the company
misled investors about the rate of oil flowing into the Gulf.  Transocean agreed in January to pay $1.4 billion and plead
guilty to one misdemeanor water-pollution charge to end the U.S.
investigation into its actions regarding the spill.  ‘Off Guard’  James Roy, an attorney for spill victims in the case, asked
Bourgoyne during cross examination if Transocean’s crew
maintained adequate training for ‘‘dangerous but very rare
events” that could only be averted by automatic reactions to
the threat.  “They didn’t get it done so it implies they either were
not trained or were disregarding their training,” Bourgoyne
replied. “This unusual situation caught them off guard.”  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New
Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at  allenmct@gmail.com ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  