-- BP Sued by Vantage for $265 Million Jump in Costs
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-04-08T22:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/bp-sued-by-vantage-for-265-million-jump-in-costs.html
Vantage Drilling Co. (VTG)  sued a BP Plc
unit over what it claims was a $265.5 million increase in
financing costs stemming from the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  Vantage, a Houston-based offshore drilling contractor, said
it was forced to find last-minute replacement funding for its
Platinum Explorer deep-water drilling rig, then nearing
completion at a South Korean shipyard, after the blowout of BP’s
Macondo well and the subsequent massive oil spill shut down much
of the Gulf in April 2010.  “Vantage’s pre-spill financing window slammed shut, bond
yields for ultra-deepwater drillship contracting companies such
as Vantage spiked, and the post-spill financing terms available
to Vantage substantially worsened,’’ Richard Mithoff, Vantage’s
lawyer, said in an April 3 filing in New Orleans federal court.  Vantage’s claim is one of hundreds not covered by London-
based  BP’s (BP/)  $8.5 billion settlement of most private-party claims
for economic and medical damages resulting from the worst
offshore oil spill in U.S. history.  Shortly after the spill began, President  Barack Obama 
issued a deep-water drilling moratorium that shut down
exploration activity in much of the Gulf for months. In numerous
court filings, BP has denied responsibility for business losses
tied to that ban.  Scott Dean, a BP spokesman, declined to comment on
Vantage’s lawsuit.  Installment Payments  Vantage owed the Korean shipyard $64.2 million in
installment payments by July 30, 2010, and about $608 million
more on delivery of its deep-water rig in November of that year,
or it risked losing the Platinum Explorer, according to the
filing. The company had to find replacement financing in the
bond market, which it said demanded more expensive terms.  Vantage presented its claim to BP’s oil-spill settlement
administrator in September and the claim was denied, according
to the suit.  The Deepwater Horizon Claims Center, which administers BP’s
settlement program, has denied 193 spill-related damage claims
by companies in the oil and gas industry, according to a March
11 report submitted to the judge overseeing all litigation for
economic and medical injuries resulting from the spill. The
center has not tracked an estimated value for these denied
energy-industry claims.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  is in the seventh week of
a non-jury trial to apportion liability for the spill between BP
and its contractors on the Macondo well. Vernier, Switzerland-
based Transocean Ltd., which owned the Deepwater Horizon rig,
and Halliburton Co., which provided cementing services to the
well, are also involved in that trial, which is expected to last
several more weeks.  The case is Vantage Drilling Co. v BP Exploration &
Production Inc., 2:13-cv-00610, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  