-- Brasil Foods Expansion Abroad Seen Under Diniz: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-04-08T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/brasil-foods-expansion-abroad-seen-under-diniz-corporate-brazil.html
Billionaire Abilio Diniz, poised to
become chairman of BRF- Brasil Foods (BRFS3)  SA, has investors betting
he’ll steer the country’s top foodmaker toward an overseas
expansion and boost profit margins.  Diniz, who as chairman of Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao
Grupo  Pao de Acucar  used acquisitions to turn the retailer into
the country’s largest, is set to be elected head of Brasil
Foods’ board tomorrow after winning support from two of the top
three shareholders, according to investors and analysts.  Brasil Foods investors are tapping Diniz, 76, to help the
company resume growth after the $3.8 billion takeover of Sadia
SA in 2009 led antitrust authorities to demand asset sales. The
tycoon will probably help the Sao Paulo-based maker of TV
dinners and yogurt cut costs and improve efficiency, according
to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst Luca Cipiccia.  “I see the presence of Mr. Diniz favorably,” said
Frederico de Castro, an analyst at Sao Paulo-based Perfin
Investimentos, which manages 2.6 billion reais ($1.3 billion)
including Brasil Foods shares. “He will help develop a more
ambitious growth agenda.”  Brasil Foods  reported  net income of 562.8 million reais in
the fourth quarter, beating the 428.1 million-real average of
seven analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 13
percent from the previous quarter. Earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, have fallen to
8.2 percent of sales in 2012 from 11 percent the previous year.  Outperformance  Brasil Foods is up 5.5 percent this year in Sao Paulo and
trades at 21 times  estimated earnings , compared with a 6.6
percent decline and a ratio of 12 for  Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3) , the
country’s second-biggest processed foods maker. It has buy
 recommendations  from 11 of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, up
from eight before Diniz was nominated to the board on Feb. 21.
Four analysts have a hold rating and five recommend selling.  Brasil Foods declined to comment on changes to its board
and its growth plans in an e-mailed response to questions.  Diniz’s nomination has led Pao de Acucar’s controlling
shareholder Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA to ask him to leave the
supermarket chain’s board to avoid conflicts of interest. Diniz
said he plans to keep both jobs, adding he has the right to
remain as part of a 2005 accord with the Saint-Etienne,
France-based retailer.  Corporate governance advisers Glass Lewis & Co. recommended 
 Brasil Foods  shareholders vote against Diniz's appointment
because the foodmaker is Pao de Acucar's largest supplier and 
the retailer is its biggest client.  ‘Different Perspective’  Brasil Foods Chief Executive Officer Jose Antonio Fay, who
has said since 2009 that the foodmaker would seek an
international expansion, so far hasn’t made any major
acquisition abroad as the company focused on reducing debt from
the purchase of Sadia.  “At this point the company needs someone with a different
perspective,” Perfin’s Castro said. “Diniz seems like a good
choice.”  Under Diniz, Pao de Acucar increased sales 25-fold in two
decades and tripled profit margins after 13 takeovers including
Extra hypermarkets, Casas Bahia furniture stores and the Ponto
Frio consumer electronics chain. The son of founder Valentim Diniz, he has been the chairman of Pao de Acucar since 2003
after eight years as chief executive officer.  The challenge of being chairman of two of  Brazil ’s largest
companies at the same time and the difficulties involved in big
acquisitions means Diniz may not be able to execute as much as
shareholders expect, said  Nick Robinson , a portfolio manager who
helps manage $15 billion of Latin American shares at Aberdeen
Asset Management Plc, including Brasil Foods.  Conflict of Interest  “It’s going to be quite tough to execute,” Robinson said
in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “There’s a bit of a
question over a potential conflict of interest with Diniz
becoming chairman of both companies and over how he’s going to
be able to do those two jobs at the same time.”  Diniz won support from two of Brasil Foods’ three biggest
 shareholders  --  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3)  employees’ Previ pension
fund, which holds a 12.19 percent stake, and private-equity fund
 Tarpon Investimentos SA (TRPN3) , three people who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private, said in February.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  workers’ Petros pension fund, the
foodmaker’s largest shareholder with a 12.22 percent stake as of
Dec. 31, sees no need for major changes at Brasil Foods and will
decide on its stance on the nomination at the meeting tomorrow,
Carlos Fernando Costa, the fund’s investor director, told
newspaper Valor Economico in an interview last week.  Officials at Tarpon and Petros didn’t return calls and e-
mails seeking comment. Previ and a firm representing Diniz
declined to comment in e-mailed responses to questions. A
spokeswoman for Casino declined to comment.  Stake Purchase  Diniz is said to have spent about 1 billion reais buying
Brasil Foods shares, a person with direct knowledge of the
matter, who asked not to be named because the numbers aren’t
public, said in February.  Diniz’s  net worth  was $3.7 billion as of last month,
according to Forbes.  At Brasil Foods, a supplier of processed food products to
Pao de Acucar, Diniz will probably seek to increase capacity use
and reduce maintenance spending at 61 plants in Brazil, five in
 Argentina  and two in  Europe  to improve  margins , Castro said.
He’s also likely to use Brasil Foods’ Sadia and Perdigao meat
and dairy brands for other products to boost sales, Castro said.  “Abilio Diniz, who has vast experience in food retailing,
may in our view accelerate” profitability gains at Brasil
Foods, Goldman Sachs’s Cippicia, who has a buy recommendation
for the stock, said in an April 1 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  