-- Cameron and Merkel are Failing the Thatcher Test
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-08T19:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/cameron-and-merkel-are-failing-the-thatcher-test.html
Margaret Thatcher was hated --
widely and passionately -- when she was U.K. prime minister, a
fact that has gone largely unsaid in the encomiums that followed
her death. Her polarizing nature needs to be remembered, because
it defines what set her apart as a leader.  Thatcher was unusual among politicians because she wasn’t
first of all tactical. She didn’t shape her policies to secure
the next election or to keep people happy. She didn’t
triangulate. Voters accepted her not because they liked her, but
because they believed she was necessary.  Sometimes Thatcher’s policies were bad and she failed. Her
attempt to crush the Irish Republican Army by isolating it and
supressing free speech was counterproductive. Her insistence on
a poll tax -- which crucially was not necessary -- triggered her
downfall. Yet her all-or-nothing approach saved the British
economy; her steadfastness in this realm carries lessons for
 Europe ’s leaders as they struggle to address the financial
crisis.  The Britain that Thatcher took over in 1979 seemed an
impossible challenge -- it looked surprisingly like Europe’s
peripheral economies, such as Spain and  Greece , today. As
recently as 1976, the U.K. had been  forced  to go to the
International Monetary Fund for help. Mass strikes and power
cuts became so bad that 1978-1979 became known as “the winter of
discontent.” Garbage went uncollected and bodies unburied.
Growth stagnated and inflation was 13 percent and rising.  At the time, the U.K. economy wasn’t recognizable as the
hybrid U.S.-European, financial sector-dominated affair that it
is today. Post-World War II Britain was solidly social-market
European. The public sector in 1979  accounted  for almost 30
percent of the work force, compared with 20 percent  today . The
top income-tax rate was 83 percent, compared with 45 percent
now. The state-owned steelmakers, coal mines and most of the car
industry, and ran them badly. Much of it was heavily subsidized
by the taxpayer, because it was fundamentally unprofitable.  Thatcher remade the U.K.’s business model. She crushed the
labor unions that had held her predecessors to ransom, in a
carefully planned, almost military-style campaign. She shuttered
subsidized mines and steel plants, leaving whole towns with no
source of jobs. Unemployment  soared  to 3 million, or about 12
percent of the workforce. People had to move and retrain.  All of this caused real pain and made Thatcher despised by
large segments of the population. So dire were the effects of
the creative destruction she unleashed that many in her own
party wanted her to turn back. Had she lost the 1982 Falklands
War, she would not have secured a second term.  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron has been invoking the
memory of the Thatcher of the early 1980s. He echoed her “there
is no alternative” response to critics in countering opponents
of his own economic austerity program. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  might say the same as she sticks to her austerity guns in
the euro-area crisis. Yet there is a critical difference.  Cameron’s fiscal policies were designed for a set of
forecasts that were woefully wrong. They have proved inadequate,
either to shrink the deficit down through sufficiently deep cuts
in spending or through stimulating growth and thus tax revenues.
For Cameron and his government, sticking to these policies seems
less like steel than tactical concern over the political fallout
from changing course. Similarly, Merkel’s approach to the euro
crisis has been to do just enough to keep the currency area from
imploding, without putting in place the policies (such as a true
banking union, or common euro-area bonds) that could, if carried
through, fix the problem. Merkel’s eyes are on German elections
in September, and Germans don’t like those policies.  There is no guarantee that Thatcher would be picking the
right policies for Europe’s troubles today. Given her extreme
views on Europe in her later years, she probably wouldn’t. Yet
the steel that the Iron Lady showed in identifying policies bold
enough for the challenge and driving them through is sorely
missed.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 