-- Canada Light Oil Prices Retreat From Six-Month High, Heavy Gains
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-04-08T17:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/canada-light-oil-prices-retreat-from-six-month-high-heavy-gains.html
Canadian light  oil prices  retreated
from a six-month high on the  spot market  reached last week as
production slipped and refineries prepared for maintenance.  Syncrude, a light oil produced from oil-sands upgraders,
weakened 25 cents for May delivery to a $9 premium to U.S. West
Texas Intermediate, according to Calgary broker Net Energy Inc.  Syncrude’s premium reached a six-month high of $10.80 last
week.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  said it will perform a seven-week
turnaround at its 350,000-barrel-a-day Fort McMurray, Alberta,
upgrader in April and May, and Canadian Natural Resources Ltd.
said it plans to shut down its 110,000-barrel-a-day Horizon
upgrader for 18 days in May.  Canadian heavy oil prices kept strengthening amid a
seasonal decline in production from Alberta and delays in new
production from  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO) ’s Kearl oil-sands project.  Western Canada Select, a heavy blend of diluted oil-sands
bitumen, strengthened by 35 cents to a $12-a-barrel discount to
WTI, according to Net Energy data. It was the smallest gap since
Oct. 4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. WCS prices also
surged last spring, narrowing their discount to $12.75 on May 1.  Canadian  oil rig  counts dropped by 30 to 117 last week,
down from this year’s high of 509 during the week ended March 1,
Houston oil field-services company Baker Hughes Inc. said April
5. Canadian energy activity typically dips in April during the
so-called spring breakup, when warmer weather turns roads and
drilling sites in remote areas to mud, slowing production.  Kearl Delays  Delays in the startup of the 110,000-barrel-a-day Kearl
project in northern  Alberta  also supported heavy oil, as the
expected increase in supply in Alberta is put off.  “We expect production of diluted bitumen to commence in
the coming days,” Pius Rolheiser, a spokesman for Exxon Mobil
Corp.’s Calgary subsidiary Imperial Oil, said in an e-mail
today.  The project, scheduled to start earlier this year, was
hampered by unusually cold winter weather. Rolheiser said in an
e-mail on April 1 the company expected production “to commence
in the next few days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  