-- Ex-Obama Aide Duels Ex-Kerry Staffers Over Keystone
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-04-09T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/canadian-province-hires-company-with-ties-to-kerry.html
Supporters and opponents of the
proposed Keystone XL pipeline have recruited former aides to
Secretary of State  John Kerry  and President  Barack Obama  in
dueling efforts to influence the White House.  Alberta -- the source of the oil sands that would be sent
though  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s pipeline -- hired Boston-based public
relations firm Rasky Baerlein Strategic Communications Inc. to
promote the project, according to disclosure reports. Rasky
Baerlein’s chairman, Larry Rasky, worked for Kerry’s first
campaign for the  U.S. Senate  from  Massachusetts  in 1984,
according to his biography on the firm’s website. Rasky also
served as communications director for Vice President  Joe Biden ’s
unsuccessful campaign for the 2008 Democratic presidential
nomination.  Meanwhile, former White House aide  Bill Burton  is part of a
new coalition of environmental groups opposing the pipeline.
Burton, whose outside group raised $65 million in support of
Obama’s re-election last year, said the “All Risk, No Reward
Coalition” group is spending hundreds of thousands of dollars
to prod Democratic supporters of the president to push him to
reject the pipeline.  “We have an electorate of one: President Obama,” Jane
Kleeb, the head of BOLD Nebraska, a group fighting the pipeline,
said on a conference call with Burton yesterday.  Increased Lobbying  The increased lobbying efforts reflect a growing urgency as
the president’s decision on Keystone looms. Environmentalists
view Keystone as a test of Obama’s sincerity about making
climate change a priority in his second term after failing to
advance legislation to cap carbon dioxide in his first.
Republicans and some Democrats in Congress argue Keystone will
create jobs and improve U.S. energy security.  The State Department and Obama must approve TransCanada’s
petition before it can build the pipeline to carry  oil sands 
from Alberta to refineries on the Gulf Coast. The State
Department is collecting comments on its environmental
assessment of the project, released last month.  “The groups in this ‘new coalition’ or the same old groups
and professional activists who have been opposing Keystone XL
for some time,” Shawn Howard, a spokesman for TransCanada, said
in an e-mail responding to the Burton group’s announcement.  The pipeline is designed to carry about 830,000 barrels a
day from Alberta and oil from shale rock formations in the U.S.
along a route that would traverse six Great Plains states. The
administration has previously given approval for the pipeline’s
southern leg to relieve an oil glut in Cushing,  Oklahoma .  Senate Resolution  The Senate on March 22 approved 62-37 a non-binding
resolution encouraging the project’s development. A panel of the
 House of Representatives  is considering its own pro-Keystone
legislation tomorrow.  Also, this week, Alberta Premier Alison Redford, is
scheduled to visit  Washington  to give a speech and to “meet
with several legislators and administration officials on both
sides of the Keystone debate,” her office said in a press
release announcing the trip. It’s her fourth to Washington in 18
months.  In remarks at the  Brookings Institution , a public-policy
research center, Redford plans to describe the economic benefits
to both nations if the U.S. permits construction of the Alberta-
to-Texas pipeline, according to the press release.  Alberta is running advertisements in Washington-area
newspapers over the next four days, as it seeks to emphasize its
“strong environmental policy” and efforts to curb greenhouse-
gas emissions, spokeswoman Neala Barton said.  Bypass Obama  Obama rejected TransCanada’s initial permit application in
January 2012, inviting the company to re-apply with a route that
didn’t cross an ecologically sensitive area of  Nebraska . He told
Republican senators last month that he plans to make a decision
on the company’s revised application, which is opposed by
environmentalists, by the end of this year.  In addition to Rasky, Alberta hired Mehlman Vogel
Castagnetti to engage in “direct lobbying of U.S. government
officials” on the Keystone project, according to a disclosure
report. It will be paid $72,563 (C$74,000), with the contract
running from March 15 to June 1, according to the filing.  The hiring of the Mehlman firm was filed with the U.S.
Justice Department under the Foreign Agents Registration Act on
March 20, and the Rasky Baerlein hiring was filed on April 3.  Two of the Mehlman firm’s principals have Republican ties:
Bruce Mehlman was an assistant secretary of Commerce under
President  George W. Bush  and general counsel to the House
Republican Conference, and Alex Vogel was chief counsel to
Tennessee Republican  Bill Frist  when he was Senate majority
leader.  The Mehlman firm also has ties to Kerry. David Castagnetti
is a Democratic strategist who was the main liaison to
congressional leaders for Kerry’s 2004 presidential campaign.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  