-- Canada Stocks Little Changed as Energy Gains Offset Banks
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-04-08T16:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/canada-stocks-little-changed-as-energy-gains-offset-banks.html
Canadian  stocks  were little changed,
after the benchmark index declined for five straight days, as
banks and gold companies slumped.  Royal Bank of  Canada  fell 0.5 percent after the government
said it is examining whether the nation’s largest lender broke
immigration rules by hiring foreign workers to replace domestic
employees.  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  rose 1.5 percent after activist investor
Jana Partners LLC said two of its nominees likely received
enough votes to be elected to the company’s board. Barrick Gold
Corp. and Goldcorp Inc. slid at least 0.9 percent as the metal
slumped for the fourth time in five sessions.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  fell 2.87 points,
or less than 0.1 percent, to 12,328.98 at 12:41 p.m. in Toronto.
The benchmark Canadian equity gauge fell 3.3 percent last week
and is down 0.9 percent for the year. Trading volume was 14
percent higher than the 30-day average at this time of the day.  “All the banks in Canada have been relatively weak,”  Ian Nakamoto , director of research with MacDougall MacDougall &
MacTier Inc., said on the phone from Toronto. He helps manage
about C$4 billion ($4 billion). “People are uncertain about
Canadian housing and loan growth.”  Canada’s unemployment rate rose for the first time in five
months and employment unexpectedly fell in March, data from
 Statistics Canada  showed April 5, raising concern economic
growth would slow.  Agrium, the Calgary-based fertilizer producer, added 1.5
percent to C$99.20. Jana Partners, the largest shareholder of
Agrium, has been pushing for changes since May and proposed five
nominees for 12 positions on the company board. Voting results
are expected to be disclosed tomorrow.  Banks Fall  Financial firms fell for a fourth straight day as a group.
 Royal Bank (RY)  dropped 0.5 percent to C$59.31, headed for its lowest
close since December. The bank fired “dozens” of staff in its
investors services group and replaced them with temporary
foreign staff, the CBC television network  reported  on its
website. One of the employees being replaced said the new
workers were from  India .  Diane Finley, Human Resources Minister, said it would be
“unacceptable” to replace domestic employees with foreign
workers.  Barrick Gold retreated 1 percent to C$26.86 and Goldcorp
lost 0.9 percent to C$32.04. The metal’s price slid 0.2 percent
to $1,572.40 as a stronger dollar reduced the appeal of gold as
an alternative investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  