-- Canada Brokerages Risk Closure Amid Slump, Russell Says
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-04-08T04:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/canada-brokerages-risk-closure-amid-slump-russell-says.html
Canada ’s small brokerage firms will
be forced to shut down or combine if the country’s lackluster
capital markets don’t improve, said Ian Russell, chief executive
officer of the Investment Industry Association of Canada.  More than a third of Canada’s 185 so-called boutique firms
have been losing money in the past two years, estimates the
association, which represents the nation’s securities firms.  “That can’t go on for a long period of time,” Russell
said in an April 5 interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New
York . “Many firms are reaching the end of the tether and we’re
going to see an accelerated pace of acquisitions or firms just
turning out the lights.”  Canada’s smaller firms have seen revenue shrink by about a
third to C$4 billion ($3.93 billion) in 2012, down C$1.7 billion
from levels in 2006-2007, according to an IIAC report from
March. Retail revenue among boutiques has fallen about 20
percent from the 2006-2007 highs, mainly from falling brokerage
commissions.  “Financings have fallen off, M&A activity has fallen off,
IPOs, and the retail investors retrenched,” Russell said.
“It’s really a reflection of what’s going on in the commodity
market.”  Canadian initial public offerings and secondary stock sales
fell 32 percent in the first quarter from the year-earlier
period, the slowest start since 2008, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The decline comes after stock sales slumped to
their lowest level in four years in 2012, slipping 9.4 percent
to $26.3 billion from 2011.  Deals Slump  Takeovers are also down, challenging firms relying on
advising companies on deals. Canadian companies were involved in
announced acquisitions valued at $31.2 billion that were pending
or completed in the first three months of this year, down about
38 percent from the year-earlier period, Bloomberg data show. It
was the slowest quarter for takeovers since the fourth quarter
of 2009.  “Both the retail boutiques and the institutional boutiques
have really taken it on the chin,” Russell said.  Costs from regulation have eroded revenue across the
industry, according to the Toronto-based association, which
represents securities firms.  Smaller brokerages in the U.S. are also struggling as money
managers trade less and execute more transactions
electronically. Money managers pay about 7.3 cents to trade $100
of stock, down from 10.6 cents three years ago, according to
 Investment Technology Group Inc. (ITG)   Broker Deals  ThinkEquity LLC, the San Francisco-based investment bank,
Rodman & Renshaw LLC and Avian Securities LLC are among the
firms that closed last year. Gleacher & Co., a 220-person
investment bank in New York focused on debt trading, has been
struggling to stem defections to larger firms as clients
question its strategic direction.  Even Jefferies Group Inc., an investment bank which
employed more than 3,800, agreed last year to sell itself to
 Leucadia National Corp. (LUK)  to strengthen its balance sheet and
guard against market turmoil.  Russell says it’s “critical” for Canada to create a
single securities regulator instead of the patchwork of 13
provincial and territorial agencies that oversee the industry.  “It will improve the cost efficiencies of regulation,
it’ll improve the accountability, it’ll improve the
responsiveness of the rule-making process,” he said.  Securities Regulator  Canada is the only member of the Group of Seven nations
without a national securities watchdog. The lack of a single,
national regulator is hampering Canada’s ability to exert
influence on global regulatory reforms, Russell said.  “We have a  capital market  that has evolved to be fully
national, both for small businesses and large businesses and
investors, and international in its dimension, and yet we’re
stuck with this relic of a regulatory framework that’s local,”
Russell said.  The IIAC has about 200 members, including bank-owned
investment banks, independent securities firms and boutiques
employing almost 40,000 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  