-- Cardenas Says Colombia Should Grow at Potential After March Cut
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-04-08T23:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/cardenas-says-colombia-should-grow-at-potential-after-march-cut.html
Colombian policy makers’ half-point
interest rate cut last month should enable the economy to
recover its maximum sustainable growth rate of 4.8 percent per
year, Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas said.  “With current conditions, the economy should be able to
recover its growth path of 4.8 percent, but this evaluation
could change. One can never say never,” Finance Minister
Mauricio Cardenas told reporters in Bogota. “We’re in a
situation where, with last month’s cut, and with conditions as
they stand, everything ought to lead to the potential growth
rate.”  The central bank has cut its policy rate two percentage
points to 3.25 percent since June, the lowest among major Latin
American economies, as growth cooled and the inflation rate fell
below the lower end of its target range. Traders have stepped up
bets on interest rate cuts over the last week, after central
bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe said interest rate decisions will
depend how far inflation strays from its target, and consumer
prices rose less than expected.  Inflation accelerated to 1.91 percent last month, lower
than the 1.99 percent median forecast of 24 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, from a six decade-low of 1.83 percent in February.
Colombia targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus one
percentage point.  “Any level between 2 percent and 4 percent is OK,”
Cardenas said today.  Yields on Colombia’s peso bonds maturing in May 2014 have
fallen 6 basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, this month to
3.55 percent. The peso has weakened 2.8 percent this year, the
biggest drop among major Latin American currencies after the
Venezuelan bolivar and the Argentine peso.  “The economy will tell us how low to cut interest rates,”
Uribe told bankers in Medellin last week. “The interest rate
decision depends how far inflation deviates from its target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Bristow at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net  