-- Cemig Rates Rise 3% as Government Fights Surging Thermal Costs
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2013-04-08T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/cemig-rates-rise-3-as-government-fights-surging-thermal-costs.html
Cia Energetica de Minas Gerais ,
Brazil’s third-largest power company by market value, will have
its rates increased 2.99 percent for the next four years, less
than initially suggested by the country’s regulator.  The regulator, known as Aneel, in January made a
preliminary suggestion to raise rates for Cemig, as the  Belo
Horizonte , Brazil-based utility is known, by 6.36 percent,
before yesterday announcing a 2.99 percent increase. Cemig
forecast a 20 percent decline in earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, Chief Financial Officer
Luiz Rolla said April 6,
before the announcement of the rate increase.  The rate review is part of a quadrennial revision that all
companies go through. The current four-year revision cycle
started July 3 when Eletropaulo Metropolitana Eletricidade de
Sao Paulo SA had its rates slashed by 9.3. While rate reviews
take into account depreciation and amortization of assets as
well as investments, Cemig’s also took into account the higher
cost of thermal energy being used in Brazil since the fourth
quarter to compensate for lower than average hydro-power
production due to a drought in parts of the country.  Brazil 
consumes mostly hydro-electricity, which is cheaper to produce
than thermal power.  Eletropaulo’s revision was perceived by analysts at the
time as a first step in President Dilma Rousseff’s attempt to
lower power tariffs. In September, the government announced a
package to cut prices for consumers by as much as 32 percent,
which became effective in January.  Cemig is already working to increase its Ebitda, given the
impact the new rates will have on profit, and to take it back to
its current level, Rolla said April 6. Reviews are rules of the
game, he said.  Tractebel Energia SA (TBLE3)  and  CPFL Energia SA (CPFE3)  are Brazil’s
largest and second-largest power utilities by market value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  