-- CEZ Rises 1st Day in 4 as CEO Calls for Improved Project Bids
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-04-08T10:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/cez-rises-1st-day-in-4-as-ceo-calls-for-improved-project-bids.html
CEZ AS (CEZ) , the biggest Czech utility,
climbed for the first time in four days as Chief Executive
Officer Daniel Benes told Euro magazine bidders for its Temelin
nuclear plant needed to make better offers.  The stock, the most-heavily  weighted  in the  PX (PX)  index, rose
1.4 percent to 574 koruna at 12:06 p.m. in Prague. The benchmark
gauge added 0.1 percent.  CEZ asked Westinghouse Electric Co. and a Russian-Czech
group led by Rosatom Corp. last month to improve their proposals
to build two new reactors in a deal valued at $10 billion. Both
bids must be boosted “significantly” in terms of price and
technical aspects, Benes said in an interview published today.  “In the current situation, when the prices of megawatt-
hour of electricity is moving slightly above 40 euros, it is
completely relevant to consider the economic side of the
project,” Benes said in the interview. “Such thinking is our
duty toward shareholders.”  Choosing between a U.S. and a Russian supplier is seen as a
politically strategic decision in the ex-communist country,
which depends on Russian imports for most of its energy. The
Czechs currently buy 60 percent of their oil, 70 percent of
natural gas and all of their nuclear fuel from  Russia . Their six
nuclear reactors are of Soviet-era design.  It’s not clear that enlarging the Temelin plant makes
sense, Foreign Minister Karel Schwarzenberg was cited as saying
by Pravo newspaper on April 6.  “Cancelling the project, in our opinion, would be
certainly positive for investors’ sentiment to CEZ shares,”
Petr Bartek, an analyst as Ceska Sporitelna AS, said in a report
to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  