-- Chile Exhumes Nobel Prize Winner Neruda in Pinochet-Era Probe
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-04-08T19:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/chile-exhumes-nobel-prize-winner-neruda-in-pinochet-era-probe.html
Chilean authorities exhumed the body
of Pablo Neruda as part of a probe into whether the Nobel Prize-
winning poet was murdered in the bloody aftermath of the
country’s 1973 military coup.  Doubts have long surrounded the death of Neruda, who passed
away just 12 days after military forces led by Augusto Pinochet
overthrew the administration of the poet’s friend, socialist
President Salvador Allende. While Neruda was suffering from
prostate cancer at the time, his then-driver believes he may
have been poisoned while undergoing treatment at a Santiago
clinic because of his allegiance to the toppled government.  Authorities, acting on a court order, today removed
Neruda’s corpse from the poet’s Isla Negra home, on the rocky
shores of the Pacific Ocean, and transported it to the capital,
Santiago, a two-hour drive inland. There, forensic experts will
try to determine the cause of death.  Neruda is the latest South American luminary whose remains
have been dug up as authorities probe the region’s past, looking
mainly to uncover crimes committed by the military dictatorships
that ruled much of the region during the Cold War. In addition
to Neruda, two other opponents of Pinochet, Allende and former
President Eduardo Frei Montalva, have had their remains
disinterred. Pinochet’s 17-year regime killed about 3,000
opponents and tortured thousands more.  In the case of Allende, a Santiago court confirmed last
year that he committed suicide while Pinochet’s forces stormed
the presidential palace, dispelling suggestions that he may have
been murdered. Meanwhile, traces of mustard gas were found in
2007 in the corpse of Frei, upending accounts that he died in
1982 from an infection contracted during a surgery.  Brazil, Venezuela  In  Brazil , the family of former President Joao Goulart, who
was overthrown in a 1964 military coup, last month authorized
his exhumation from a grave in  Argentina  to investigate their
suspicion that he was poisoned in 1976.  In  Venezuela  the conspiracy theories go back even further.  Former President Hugo Chavez in 2010 exhumed the corpse of
Simon Bolivar to determine whether the independence hero had
been poisoned by Colombian oligarchs in 1830. While Spanish
experts found no evidence of foul play, Chavez up until his
death last month from cancer continued to insist his idol had
been murdered. Allies of Chavez, including acting President
Nicolas Maduro, have also suggested Chavez himself was infected
with cancer for his anti-American political views.  Neruda was elected to Chile’s Senate in 1945 on a Communist
party ticket and cited his political leanings in his 1971 Nobel
Prize  acceptance speech .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 