-- China Five-Year Swap Drops to Four-Month Low on Bird Flu Concern
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-08T02:55:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/china-five-year-swap-drops-to-four-month-low-on-bird-flu-concern.html
China ’s five-year  interest-rate
swaps  dropped to a four-month low on speculation a bird flu
outbreak and property market curbs will slow the economy.  Authorities tried to ease concern that a new strain of
avian influenza will spark an epidemic as authorities reported
three more infections of the deadly H7N9 virus that’s killed six
people. The nation’s largest cities, including Beijing and
 Shanghai , restricted multiple home purchases this month after
policy makers asked local governments to step up efforts to cool
the housing market.  “There have been worries that the bird flu and the
property curbs will hurt the economy,” said Liu Junyu, a
Shenzhen-based bond analyst at China Merchants Bank Co., the
nation’s sixth-biggest lender.  The offshore five-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed
to receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, declined
three basis points to 3.48 percent as of 10:33 a.m. in Shanghai,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 3.47 percent
earlier, the lowest level since Nov. 26.  The central bank gauged demand today for seven- and 14-day
reverse-repurchase contracts to be offered this week and asked
banks to submit orders for 28-day  repurchase agreements ,
according to a trader required to bid at the auctions.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 3.29 percent from yesterday’s close,
according to a weighted average rate compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. China’s bond market opened yesterday
following public holidays on April 4 and April 5.  The yield on the 3.52 percent government notes due February
2023 was unchanged at 3.48 percent from yesterday, according to
the Interbank Funding Center.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Andrew Janes, Amit Prakash  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 