-- China Failed Mining Deals Top $45 Billion on Hanlong Bungle
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-09T07:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/china-failed-mining-deals-top-45-billion-on-hanlong-bungle.html
Sichuan Hanlong Group’s botched $1.2
billion bid for Australia’s  Sundance Resources Ltd. (SDL)  brings the
value of China’s recent failed mining deals to $45 billion, a
record that’s prompted stricter Chinese scrutiny of
acquisitions.  Chinese companies attempted $107 billion worth of mining
takeovers over the past five years, with about $45 billion, or
42 percent by value, of deals ending in failure. Of $562 billion
of deals proposed globally in the same period, $180 billion, or
32 percent, didn’t proceed, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The collapse yesterday of the bid for Sundance, seeking to
develop a $4.7 billion iron ore project in  Africa , comes after a
string of failed investments by Chinese companies, including the
demise of a $19.5 billion investment in Rio Tinto Group in 2009.
Regulators under  China ’s new leadership team of Xi Jinping and
Li Keqiang have told state-owned companies that overseas
takeovers will face a more stringent approval process.  “Chinese regulators are probably going to allow fewer
deals to go through as they become more discerning,” Jonathan Li, a corporate partner at Clayton Utz, said in a phone
interview from  Melbourne . “The market will come to expect that
when a deal involving a Chinese acquirer is announced, all the
internal Chinese approvals will already have been obtained.”  Biggest Failure  The termination of Hanlong’s bid for Sundance is China’s
biggest overseas acquisition failure since April 2011 when
Minmetals Resources Ltd., the Hong Kong unit of China’s biggest
metals trader, abandoned its C$6.04 billion ($5.9 billion) offer
for Equinox Minerals Ltd.  China’s largest failed deal was the $19.5 billion proposed
investment in Rio, the world’s second-biggest mining company, by
Aluminum Corp. of China that would have given Chinalco, as the
state-controlled company is known, stakes in assets including
iron ore mines in  Australia .  Sundance shares fell a record 48 percent to 11 Australian
cents at the close of trade in Sydney.  Closely held Hanlong, whose billionaire chairman Liu Han is
reportedly in police custody in China after being detained last
month, didn’t meet a second funding deadline last month for the
deal, prompting further talks that failed. It had been told by
Chinese government agencies to study partnerships with state-
owned enterprises to get financing for its proposal to buy the
shares in Sundance that it didn’t already own.  Sundance ended the accord because the funding condition
wasn’t met and after being told by the Chinese company that it
was unlikely to meet other required conditions, the Perth-based
company said yesterday in a statement. It’s in talks with other
Chinese and non-Chinese groups on the Mbalam-Nabeba iron ore
project, Sundance said, without naming them.  ‘Cool Down’  China’s top planning bodies including the National
Development and Reform Commission in a January statement told
key industries to increase their risk prevention analysis and
controls when studying overseas acquisitions. State-owned
Chinese companies will be under stricter controls on the scale
and direction of investments in 2013, the Assets Supervision and
Administration Commission (SASAC) said last month, according to
the official Xinhua News Agency, citing the China Daily.  “It would be great news to cool down the mania for rushing
for overseas deals,” said Xu Zhongbo, chief executive officer
of Beijing Metal Consulting Ltd., who has worked in the steel
and mining industry for more than three decades. “We don’t have
the ability yet to create a globally powerful mining company.”  Sinosteel Corp.’s acquisition of Australia’s Midwest Corp.
for A$1.4 billion ($1.5 billion) in 2008 was an example of a
poor investment, Xu said. Sinosteel President Huang Tianwen was
removed from his post by SASAC in 2011. He also cited  Citic
Pacific Ltd. (267) ’s $8 billion Sino Iron project in Australia, which
has had a more than four-fold budget blowout.  ‘Princelings’  The pressure on China to acquire foreign supplies of metals
and minerals is being driven by economic growth that’s forecast
to continue to outstrip the developed world. China will expand
8.1 percent this year and 8 percent in 2014 after the weakest
annual growth in 13 years in 2012, according to the median
estimate of analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Xi, who was named general secretary of China’s Communist
Party in November and president last month, has stepped up a
crackdown on corruption, which together with efforts to weaken
the clout of some state-owned enterprises, are likely to run up
against well-entrenched interests. These include the so-called
princelings, the offspring of senior leaders.  “At one time the princelings would have had a much bigger
latitude to do what they wanted to without question,” Vic Edwards, visiting fellow at the University of New South Wales’
Australian School of Business, said in a phone interview. “The
central government has a much better understanding of what is
happening” with approvals for overseas deals, he said.  Other unsuccessful deals include a bid by Chinese
billionaire Yu Yong’s Cathay Fortune Corp. for Australia’s
Discovery Metals Ltd., which collapsed last month, and Zijin
Mining Group Co.’s bid for Indophil Resources NL in 2010.  Biggest Deal  China National Gold Group Corp. and  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the
world’s biggest producer, ended talks in January over the sale
of the Toronto-based company’s 1.44 billion-pound ($2.2 billion)
African unit without reaching an agreement. The deal would have
been the largest gold-company takeover involving a Chinese
company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China, which faces obstacles in foreign transactions
including cultural gaps and environmental barriers, has
“attached greater importance to the possible risks that lie in
overseas deals,” Sun Zhaoxue, president of China National Gold,
said last month at the National People’s Congress in Beijing.  The government was asking for risk-assessment reports for
overseas projects, Sun said. SASAC which hadn’t previously
studied those reports, is now asking to review them, he said.  Slower Growth  Slower growth in China and lower commodity prices may drive
stricter guidelines for deals to ensure economic returns,
according to Jason Teh, who helps manage about $4 billion at
Investors Mutual Ltd. The benchmark  LMEX index  of the six main
metals on the London Metal Exchange has fallen 28 percent in the
past two years.  “The fact is the commodity market has slowed,” Teh said
from Sydney. “You’d want to have stricter guidelines.”  Chinese companies continue to make and seek acquisitions
under the new regulatory regime as the government doesn’t want
to stop foreign takeovers rather it wants to reduce the failure
rate. Citic Group Corp., China’s largest state-owned investment
company and parent of Citic Pacific, in February agreed to pay
about A$452 million for a 13 percent stake in Australia’s
Alumina Ltd., partner in the world’s biggest alumina business.  China Minmetals Corp. and Aluminum Corp. of China are
possible robust overseas buyers, according to Deloitte & Touche
LLP. Zhaojin Mining Industry Co., China’s fourth-biggest gold
producer, is studying takeovers in South America and other
regions, while Chinalco Mining Corporation International said in
January it may seek assets in South America, Africa and Asia.  “No doubt there has been a learning curve, if you look at
the series of transactions and the assets they’ve acquired,”
said Clayton Utz’s Li, who added that Chinese regulators had
conducted a review last year of investments in Australia. “In
recent years, the investments have become less speculative.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  