-- China’s Guan, 14, Studies Augusta’s Greens as Masters Approaches
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-04-08T19:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/china-s-guan-14-studies-augusta-s-greens-as-masters-approaches.html
The youngest competitor in the
history of the  Masters Tournament  quickly figured out the key to
success at Augusta National Golf Club.  “These greens are pretty tough and not the same as in
 China ,” Tianlang Guan, 14, said in a press conference today at
the Augusta,  Georgia , club, site of golf’s first annual major
tournament. “I need to spend more time on them.”  Guan earned a spot in this week’s field by winning the
 Asia-Pacific Amateur Championship  in November.  Winners of the U.S., British and Asia-Pacific amateur
events are invited to the  Masters  each year. The youngest player
previously to take part in the Masters was  Italy ’s Matteo
Manassero, 11 days before his 17th birthday in 2010.  Guan, a student from  Guangzhou  and China’s first Asia-
Pacific amateur champion, will be 14 years, 5 months, 17 days
old when the Masters begins on April 11. In June, 14-year-old
Andy Zhang of China became the youngest player to take part in
the  U.S. Open .  “I knew he was young, I didn’t know he was the same age as
my daughter,” 46-year-old  Steve Stricker  said at a news
conference that followed Guan’s. “That’s remarkable. I just
can’t imagine being that young and competing at that level. I’ll
be interested to see how he handles it and how he does.”  Guan, who conducted his press conference in English, said
he has spent the past three weeks in the Augusta area, playing
the course 2-3 times each week. In total, he said, he has played
it six or seven times.  Long Course  Along with trying to figure out how to putt on the course’s
sloping greens, Guan said, his biggest challenge this week would
be navigating Augusta’s 7,435-yard layout.  “I’m not long enough,” he said. “But I think I’m still
all right on this golf course. Hopefully, I can play well.”  Guan played a practice round today with Ben Crenshaw, the
tournament’s 1984 and 1995 winner, and will meet up with five-
time British Open winner  Tom Watson  tomorrow. He will play the
annual Par-3 tournament in a group with three-time Masters
winner  Nick Faldo  in two days.  While he won’t play with four-time winner  Tiger Woods , Guan
said he wants to talk with the world’s No. 1-ranked player at
some point this week.  “I played with him twice in the past couple years,” Guan
said. “He gives me advice. Every time I play with him, I feel a
lot better and it gives myself some confidence.”  Guan listened to advice today from Crenshaw, 61, known as
one of golf’s best putters. The two talked at length about the
sloping green on the par-5 13th hole, which ends the “Amen
Corner” section of the course.  “He told me a lot,” Guan said. “The slope is pretty big
and you have to have a pretty good understanding of the green.”  Guan also demonstrated he’s a quick study of Augusta
National’s ever-changing course conditions.  “It will be different during the real tournament,” he
said. “The greens will probably go firmer and probably
tougher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  