-- Christie Says Barchi’s Rutgers Mistake Not Fireable Offense
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2013-04-08T19:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/christie-says-mistake-by-rutgers-s-barchi-not-fireable-offense.html
Rutgers University President Robert Barchi should have looked at video of a basketball coach abusing
his players much sooner than he did, though he shouldn’t be
fired for the error, New Jersey Governor Chris Christie said.  Barchi apologized to the Rutgers community last week and
said he regrets not viewing the tape sooner that showed former
men’s basketball coach Mike Rice kicking players and throwing
basketballs at them while using gay slurs. Athletic Director Tim Pernetti, Rice’s supervisor, resigned.  Christie, in his first press conference since the scandal
broke last week, said he learned about it during a vacation when
his communications director forwarded him the video. Christie
said that college presidents cannot micromanage every issue and
must delegate. He said if Barchi were to leave, it would be a
setback in efforts to restructure the state’s higher education
system.  “He made a mistake,” said Christie, 50, a first-term
Republican seeking re-election in November. “It’s not a
fireable offense.”  The governor said that as soon as he saw the video, he knew
Rice should no longer be a coach, calling him an “animal” who
should get help for his anger.  “Anyone who saw that video tape in November should have
come to the same conclusion,” Christie said.  Rice’s Supervisor  Christie also reiterated that Pernetti’s resignation was
“appropriate and necessary.”  “He was the main person charged with supervision of Coach
Rice,” Christie said. He said he called Pernetti once, after
seeing the video, and spoke to him “as a friend,” not as
governor.  “My advice to you is to get rid of him and get rid of him
right away,” Christie said he told Pernetti, referring to Rice,
who was initially suspended in December by New Brunswick, New
Jersey-based Rutgers.  Pernetti said in his resignation letter April 5 that his
instinct when he saw the video in November was to fire Rice,
rather than suspend him. He said Rutgers got lawyers, human
resources and outside counsel involved, and following a review,
it was decided that school policy “would not justify dismissal.  Yet, the outside law firm’s Nov. 26 investigative report,
released Friday, concluded that Rice’s action could have
violated his contract.  Pernetti’s Severance  Pernetti and Rutgers agreed on a severance package giving
him $1.2 million in salary, two years of health insurance, a
$12,000-a-year car allowance and possession of a school-issued
laptop and iPad, according to the Associated Press.  Pernetti gets to keep the money even if he takes another
job and the school won’t make any derogatory statements about
him to the news media or potential employers, AP reported,
citing details of the settlement obtained through an open-
records request.  “I don’t think it was unreasonable,” Christie said at the
news conference of Pernetti’s $1.2 million payout.  The governor also said the university would be hurt
“drastically” if Barchi were to leave amid plans to reorganize
Rutgers, including merging with the state’s medical schools,
which Christie supports.  “Not only would it be a setback to the merger, it would be
a setback to the strategic plan for Rutgers,” said Christie,
who shot down calls for state legislative hearings on the
scandal, saying it would continue “reputational damage” to the
school.  ‘Extremely Disingenuous’  State Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, a Democrat who
proposed last week holding the hearings, said Christie’s remark
was “extremely disingenuous,” and that the legislature has an
obligation to “explore the process by which an unhealthy
environment was allowed to exist” at Rutgers.  Barchi held a town hall meeting today with members of the
 Rutgers Newark campus , where faculty had been especially
critical of the reorganization.  Barchi said that athletic administrators will review all
teams’ practice tapes for instances of bullying.  “I will not tolerate that,” Barchi said, referring to
anti-gay behavior. “I never have in my public life and I never
will.”  Five students punctuated the meeting with calls for his
resignation. The protestors were upset over the basketball
scandal and disputes over university funding, said Christian
McFarland, who held up a sign saying “Give Barchi the Boot.”  “Barchi needs to go the same way Coach Rice and the
athletic director did,” said McFarland, who will complete a
master’s degree in jazz history next month. “The way we see it,
it’s two down and one to go. He covered up for it.”  Help Offered  Steven Goldstein, a Rutgers administrator and gay-rights
activist, offered last week to help Barchi and two other
administrators handle the crisis over Rice’s abuse and
homophobic slurs. Goldstein said he never heard back.  An April 4 letter from Goldstein, who founded  Garden State
Equality , a civil-rights group that successfully pushed for
anti-bullying laws, cited Rutgers’s “astonishing lack of
sensitivity” to gay, bisexual and transgender students,
according to a copy obtained by Bloomberg. Most notable was the
2010 suicide of Rutgers freshman Tyler Clementi after a video of
him kissing a man was streamed on the Internet by his roommate.  “It’s just astounding,” said Goldstein, who was hired
from Garden State in January as an associate chancellor on
Rutgers’s Newark campus. “One would think the administration
would drag me kicking and screaming to help them with damage
control and to help make Rutgers the better place it needs to
be” for gay students and the entire community.  Independent Review  Barchi and Ralph Izzo, chairman of the school’s  Board of
Governors  said in a statement today they plan to commission an
independent review of the handling of the allegations against
Rice.  Izzo also said that he found out April 6 that the head of
the board’s committee on Intercollegiate Athletics had viewed a
video in December showing Rice’s abuse of players. The
committee’s chairman is Mark P. Hershhorn. Neither the full
committee nor any other member of the Board of Governors had
seen the video, Izzo said.  New Jersey Senate President Steve Sweeney, a Democrat, said
today that the only way for Rutgers to move on is for full
disclosure on who knew what and when.  “Any trustee or member of the Board of Governors who
witnessed the tape at any point before it was publicly aired,
and took no action, should be removed or resign immediately,”
Sweeney said in a statement. “The standard for them, or anyone
in a position of authority at Rutgers, should be no different
than for Mike Rice or Tim Pernetti.”  A voicemail left at Hershhorn’s office wasn’t returned.  Big Ten  The decision in December by Barchi and Athletic Director
Tim Pernetti to suspend and fine Rice $50,000 rather than
fire him may have been taken partly because of the politics of
intercollegiate sports, according to Scott Minto, director of
the sports MBA program at San Diego State University. Rice’s
suspension came three weeks after Rutgers was invited to join
the Big Ten Conference.  “While we remain interested in the outcome of Rutgers’
review, and will continue to monitor the situation as
appropriate, it will have no impact on Rutgers’ transition to,
or membership in, the Big Ten Conference,” Jim Delany, the Big
Ten’s commissioner, said in a statement last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
 John Hechinger  in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net ;
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  