-- CMBS Lifts Landlord Across the Pacific Ocean as Issuance Booms
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-04-08T17:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/cmbs-lifts-landlord-across-the-pacific-ocean-as-issuance-booms.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s effort to
stimulate economic growth is aiding property owners as far
afield as the Pacific islands as commercial-mortgage bond
issuance surges.  A $60 million loan on a shopping mall in Guam contained in
a $1.3 billion transaction from  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  is a
rare instance of a U.S. territorial property in a domestic deal,
according to Bank of America Corp.  Wall Street banks are boosting sales of securities tied to
shopping malls, office buildings, hotels and apartment complexes
as investors seek out riskier assets with the central bank
holding its benchmark borrowing rate close to zero into a fifth
year. Lenders are stretching to find property debt to sell off
as bonds as issuance booms, Bank of America analysts led by  Alan Todd  said in an April 5 report. Though the Guam mortgage is
relatively conservative, it illustrates the trend, the analysts
said.  “Including non-U.S. domiciled properties is yet another
instance of originators being forced to look to potentially non-
traditional places,” for loans, according to the New York-based
analysts.  The mortgage for the Bayview Plaza in Guam, the U.S.
territory  located  5,800 miles west of  San Francisco , is the
seventh-largest in the offering from UBS and Barclays, according
to Bank of America. The loan may be the first in a U.S. CMBS
deal not located in one of the  United States , Mexico or the
Caribbean, according to Bank of America.  Tourist Center  The mortgage from UBS, with an interest rate of 5.19
percent, was used to refinance $34.1 million of maturing debt,
according to deal documents. The property, located in the
tourist center of Tumon, was valued at $94 million as of Dec.
19, the documents show.  Issuance of commercial-mortgage bonds is poised to climb 50
percent to $70 billion in 2013, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. Banks have arranged about $22 billion in deals this year,
with as much as $9 billion in sales forecast this month,
JPMorgan analysts led by Ed Reardon said in a report last week.  Deutsche Bank AG and Cantor Fitzgerald LP today announced a
$505 million deal linked to 87 properties across the U.S.,
according to person familiar with the offering who asked not be
identified because they aren’t authorized to speak publicly.
California accounts for 36 percent of the deal, followed by
Florida, Illinois and  North Carolina , deal documents show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  