-- CME Plans to Introduce Ethanol RINs Contract by End of May
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-04-08T16:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/cme-plans-to-introduce-ethanol-rins-contract-by-end-of-may.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , owner of the world’s
largest futures exchange, plans to start a contract for ethanol
Renewable Identification Numbers by the end of May amid concern
that higher RINs costs will boost gasoline prices.  The exchange is introducing the contract as the
certificates have attracted more attention, Damon Leavell, a CME
spokesman in New York, said in a telephone interview today.
Prices rose to a record last month.  Lawmakers have called for investigations into the
volatility of the RINs, certificates attached to each gallon of
biofuel that refiners need to show compliance with federal
mandates. Petroleum and ethanol industry representatives have
argued over the effect of RINs on retail gasoline prices.  “The recent volatility in RIN prices has introduced a
whole new set of risk management challenges that the market will
need to address,” said Michael Breitenbach, an analyst and
trader at Blue Ocean Brokerage LLC in  New York .  Corn-based ethanol RINs , or D6, rose 6.3 percent to 75.5
cents on April 5, the highest price since March 15, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Advanced RINs, or D5, which cover
biodiesel and Brazilian sugarcane-based ethanol, jumped 5.1
percent to 82 cents, the most since March 18.  Gasoline at the  pump , averaged nationwide, has risen 9.1
percent this year to $3.593 a gallon, AAA, the nation’s largest
motoring organization, said today on its website.  Renewable Standard  A 2007 energy law, known as the Renewable Fuels Standard,
requires the U.S. to use 13.8 billion gallons of ethanol this
year and 14.4 billion in 2014.  There are about 2.1 billion RINs that were carried over
from 2012 that can be used for compliance this year, short of
the Environmental Protection Agency’s forecast of 2.6 billion,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report today.  Higher prices for the certificates may affect prices for
reformulated  gasoline , or RBOB, and crack spreads, the premium
of the fuel over crude, Goldman said.  “We expect this downward revision to RIN supplies will
support D6 RIN prices and, given the likely pass through to
gasoline blendstock prices, will support RBOB prices as well as
gasoline cracks,” Goldman analysts Damien Courvalin and  Jeffrey Currie , wrote in the report.  Congressional Inquiries  Senators  David Vitter , a Louisiana Republican, and  Lisa
Murkowski , an Alaska Republican, sent a March 20  letter  asking
EPA director nominee Gina McCarthy how she will address the
ethanol mandate and the surging RINs prices.  U.S. Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat and chairman of
the Senate’s Energy and Natural Resources Committee, sent a
letter to the EPA on March 22 seeking data to explain the recent
volatility in the RIN market.  Ethanol is made mostly from corn in the U.S. One bushel of
the grain makes at least 2.75 gallons of the renewable fuel.
Production in the week ended March 29 averaged 807,000 barrels a
day, or 12.4 billion gallons on an annualized basis, data from
the Energy Information Administration show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  