-- Congress’ Tax Chiefs Pledge Bipartisan Path to Rewrite
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-04-08T14:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/congress-tax-chiefs-pledge-bipartisan-path-to-rewrite.html
The top two tax writers in Congress
pledged to continue work on a rewrite of the U.S. tax code that
would lower rates and subject more income to taxation.  Senator Max Baucus, a Montana Democrat, and Representative
Dave Camp, a Michigan Republican, wrote that they will produce
bills and work together in an “open and transparent fashion”
that allows for public input.  “People from across the spectrum are trying to turn tax
reform into a political weapon, which could end up killing any
chance at success,” they wrote today in the Wall Street
Journal. “We can’t let that happen.”  Camp, 59, is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee
and was first elected to Congress in 1990. He has released three
discussion drafts of pieces of his tax plan and has said his
committee will approve a bill this year.  Baucus, 71, is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee and
has been in the Senate since 1978. He has moved more slowly than
Camp and hasn’t set a time frame for action. His panel has
started closed-door meetings on the tax system.  As an example of a break they will seek to curb, Baucus and
Camp cited the ability of some lawyers and celebrities to avoid
payroll taxes on their income. That’s a strategy that gained
attention because of its use by two former presidential
candidates: Republican  Newt Gingrich  and Democrat John Edwards.  Professionals who own businesses, as Gingrich and Edwards
did, can direct their compensation to be paid as profits and not
as wages subject to the payroll tax for Medicare, which has a
top rate of 3.8 percent.  Baucus and Camp also wrote that the tax code would remain
as progressive as it is now and said they would “ensure that
low-income and middle-income Americans will pay no more taxes
than they do under current law.”  The House Republican budget, which includes instructions to
Camp’s committee, doesn’t set a progressivity target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  