-- Convincing Chinese Bird Flu Is Unrelated to Dead Pigs
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-04-08T22:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/convincing-chinese-bird-flu-is-unrelated-to-dead-pigs.html
How does the Chinese Communist Party
manage to calm a public convinced that -- on matters of public
health, at least -- officials are probably lying to them?  It’s a critical question as  infections and fatalities
related to the H7N9 bird flu  slowly tick upward, unnerving
Chinese disinclined to trust their government. The crisis of
confidence has its roots in the fatal consequences of the  high-level coverup  of SARS in 2003, and, more recently, in the  still
unexplained  dead-pig tide that polluted Shanghai waterways. With
this sorry history as a precursor and widely assumed precedent,
Chinese seem ready to believe anything that doesn’t come from a
government mouthpiece -- especially if it contradicts the
official story or fills a knowledge gap that the government
hasn’t addressed.  Consider this  sarcastic tweet  to Sina Weibo, China’s most
popular Twitter-like microblog, on Monday morning by Wu Yan, a
popular Internet commentator and writer. In addition to bird flu
and SARS, it invokes  China ’s crackdowns  on corrupt officials  and
the country’s long-standing problems with  contaminated dairy
products : “From SARS to H7N9, the most horrible Chinese virus
has never been cured: a regime that doesn’t want to tell the
truth. The root of bird flu is not an animal but those nasty
lies from lunatic officials, including: Dead pigs don’t
influence the water quality, and domestic milk powder is the
safest. And there is a very small ratio of greedy officials or
even none! --- Human flu is much worse than bird flu.”  Wu’s tweet was re-posted about 2,000 times in the 12 hours
after he posted it and has generated more than 300 comments,
most of them supportive. Though harsh for a popular Chinese
Internet commentator (such sentiments are most common on
anonymous accounts), Wu’s tweet resides in the mainstream of
recent Chinese Internet commentary on government transparency --
especially regarding the dead-pig tide.  In March, shortly after the dead pigs became a major
public-relations crisis,  Shanghai officials insisted  that water
drawn from the river in which the pigs resided was safe to
drink. It would have been a preposterous claim to make about
dirty  Shanghai  water even before thousands of dead pigs floated
down it. Coming afterward, it only served to impugn the
credibility of officials who just weeks later would be pressured
by a restless public to explain whether the newly emerged H7N9
bird flu -- which started its run with two Shanghai infections -
- had  anything to do  with those same pigs. And so, when Shanghai
officials  announced on April 1  that tests on pig corpses didn’t
turn up the H7N9 virus, few believed them.  On China’s microblogs, dead pig and H7N9 bird flu
connections  are rife  -- and have become even more popular since
the government denied them. Some tweets read like the  ravings of
conspiracy theorists . Others sound like  the armchair
investigations  of sincerely concerned citizens. Several are just
funny: “Shanghai is a magical place,”  tweeted  an engineer on
Monday night in China. “Toss a dead pig into the water and H7N9
comes out. Take care of yourself, brother official.”  These skeptical, sometimes hostile, posts continue to
surface despite the fact that microblogging accounts associated
with  Party-owned news sites are repeatedly re-posting accounts 
of the week-old denial of an H7N9-pig connection. This leaves
officials charged with figuring out a way to cool the public’s
nerves about a bird flu nobody really understands, and a dead-pig tide the government appears determined to keep to itself,
with a thorny problem: If the public seems resolved to doubt you
-- even when you believe you’re telling the truth -- what can
you do?  One approach is to pretend everything is OK, while ignoring
the  apocalyptic overtones to much of the recent news out of
Shanghai . That’s the approach that CCTV -- China’s Communist
Party-owned television juggernaut -- attempted on the  April 5
edition  of the network’s signature prime-time news broadcast,
Xinwen Lianbo. It provided viewers with several entertaining,
soft-news stories, including features on the  Amazon River tidal
bore  and the  annual migration of East African wildlife  across
the Serengeti -- and absolutely nothing about the killer flu in
the country’s commercial capital.  That did not go over well,  particularly with members  of the
Chinese news media. Feng Xincheng, the respected editor of  New
Weekly  magazine, summarized the feelings of many of his
colleagues when  he tweeted  to his 2.8 million Sina Weibo
followers on April 5: “There are dead pigs floating in the
 Yangtze River , but you point your camera at the Amazon; your
people fear bird flu, and you live broadcast the great migration
across the Serengeti. In the end, which country’s station are
you?”  Feng’s tweet has been re-posted more than 108,000 times and
generated more than 29,000 almost universally positive comments.
CCTV seems to have gotten the message (and it wasn’t just Feng
sending it): Since April 6, H7N9 -- but not dead pigs -- has
featured prominently featured in CCTV’s prime-time newscasts.  Another approach that China’s authorities have tried with
more success is to impress upon the public that the government
cares about health in times of crisis. At a  government press
conference  in Shanghai on April 5,  the only materials provided
to reporters  described the benefits of traditional Chinese
medicine in treating the disease. Since then, newspapers and
microblogs have been packed with  H7N9-related health tips ,
including the need to  wash hands regularly , keep homes well-ventilated, and avoid contact with live and dead (uncooked)
birds.  Even this  well-intentioned lunge at credibility  runs into
problems with a skeptical Chinese public. And the criticism
sometimes comes from unexpected quarters; on April 7, Youth
Times, a Communist Youth League-owned paper in Zhengzhou,  ran an
editorial  that invoked Beijing’s recent air-quality woes, and
the government’s credibility on that issue, when it asked: “If
there’s heavy haze, experts say close the windows; H7N9 comes,
and experts say the window should remain open. I would like to
know, should the windows be open or closed? Many people see this
question and can’t help but stifle a laugh. But it’s a painful
laugh.”  The pain, the editorial notes, comes from a lack of trust
in China’s public-health system. Clearly, this extends far
beyond health to the government authorities who are -- or are
not -- providing information to unnerved officials in Shanghai
and elsewhere in China.  Perhaps the most remarkable characteristic of the public-opinion management over the first week of the bird-flu crisis is
the hands-off approach to the Internet. So far, there’s been
almost no censorship of posts, including those that are critical
of the government and even spread  rumors of infections in
Beijing  (even after such rumors have been denied officially).
Rumor-mongering has been  aggressively censored  in the past.
Still, it’s probably best not to read too much into this moment
of apparent freedom. It’s likely that Chinese officials have
recognized that censoring panic will only result in more panic.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 