-- Copper Futures Climb as Chilean Miners to Stage National Strike
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-04-08T18:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/copper-climbs-before-chilean-miners-give-start-date-for-strike.html
Copper rose the most in more than
two weeks as miners prepared to strike in  Chile , the world’s
biggest producer.  Copper-mine workers in Chile will hold their first
nationwide strike tomorrow to push for greater  job security ,
with unions vowing to halt all mining activity. Employees from
mines operated by  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and
state-owned Codelco will put down tools for 24 hours, Raimundo
Espinoza, who heads Codelco’s union and represents workers on
the company’s board, told reporters in Santiago today.  “The firmer tone was due in part to news that Chilean
unions representing Codelco will announce a planned nationwide
strike date,”  Edward Meir , an analyst at INTL FCStone in  New
York , said in a report. “Copper production over the past year
has been rather trouble-free.”  Copper futures for delivery in May added 0.8 percent to
settle at $3.371 a pound at 1:15 p.m. the Comex in New York, the
biggest gain since March 22. The metal has posted three straight
weekly losses.  The union announcement comes after a three-week strike by
Chilean port workers that restricted copper shipments.  Money managers increased their net-short  position , or
wagers on falling copper prices, to a record 38,951 Comex
futures and options contracts as of April 2, according to the
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. That’s the most
bearish for government data that goes back to 2006.  Some investors bought to close out bets on lower prices,
 Andrew Silver , a broker at Triland Metals Ltd. in London, said
by e-mail today.  The number of London Metal Exchange copper futures
outstanding rose 3.2 percent in the week ended April 4 as prices
fell 1.3 percent, indicating new short positions. The fee to
borrow copper for a day on the LME jumped today to $3 a metric
ton, the highest this year.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months climbed 0.6
percent to $7,450 a ton ($3.38 a pound).  Tin, lead, aluminum, nickel and zinc gained in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  