-- Cotton Planting in India Seen Dropping on Water Shortage
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-04-08T05:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/cotton-planting-in-india-to-fall-as-water-shortage-worsens-2-.html
Cotton planting in India, the
world’s largest grower after China, may drop for a second year
after the weakest monsoon rains in three years deepened a water
shortage in the main growing regions. Futures in Mumbai climbed.  The acreage may fall 6.5 percent to 11 million hectares
(27.2 million acres) in the 2013-2014 season, planting of which
began this month, according to the median of estimates from five
exporters, analysts and industry groups compiled by Bloomberg.
Sowing fell to 11.77 million hectares in 2012-2013 from 12.18
million hectares a year earlier with the harvest dropping 7
percent to 33 million bales of 170 kilograms (375 pounds), data
from the nation’s  Cotton Advisory Board  showed.  A smaller crop may reduce exports for a second year,
boosting prices in New York and increasing costs for companies
such as Levi Strauss & Co. and Gap Inc. Global production will
drop 9.8 percent in the year starting Aug. 1 as farmers from the
U.S. to India cut planting, the International Cotton Advisory
Committee said on April 2. Cotton has rallied 15 percent this
year and is the second-best performer on Standard & Poor’s GSCI
gauge of 24 commodities.  “Prolonged drought conditions will tighten the supply of
cotton available for exports,” Terry Townsend, executive
director of the ICAC, said in an e-mailed interview. “Impact on
yield will be determined by the extent of the drought.”  India ’s exports will probably slump 38 percent to 8 million
bales in the year that began on Oct. 1 from a record 12.96
million bales a year earlier, board data showed. More than 50
percent of shipments were to China, the biggest importer.  Water Shortage  The May-delivery contract advanced as much as 0.4 percent
to 87.14 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York and was
at 86.83 cents at 10:49 a.m. in Mumbai. Futures plunged 60
percent from a record in 2011 as farmers expanded output. The
April-delivery contract rose as much 0.6 percent to 18,990
rupees ($347) per bale on the Multi Commodity Exchange of India
Ltd., the first gain in three days.  The monsoon, which brings more than 70 percent of India’s
rain, was 8 percent below average last year, according to the
 India Meteorological Department . That’s reduced water available
to irrigate crops in Maharashtra, Gujarat and Karnataka states,
which cut output by 7 percent in 2012-2013.  “In the main growing belt of Saurashtra, yields may drop
because of less water,” said Hasmukhbhai Raval, chairman of the
 Gujarat State Co-operative Cotton Federation Ltd. . The area in
the western state of Gujarat, the biggest producer, may drop by
5 percent to 7 percent in 2013-2014, he said.  Shifting Crops  Some farmers may shift to guar as it fetches better
returns, Raval said. Guar gum, a thickening agent used for oil
and gas extraction and also in food and drugs, beat rice and
cotton to become India’s top farm export in the April-June
period amid demand from the U.S., the Times of India reported on
March 10. In Karnataka, some cotton areas may be diverted to
corn, said Shirish Shah, partner at Bhaidas Cursondas & Co, a
Mumbai-based exporter.  “Farmers will keep in mind the drought-like conditions in
the main growing states, and will see if the rains are timely,”
said A. Ramani, secretary of the Indian Cotton Federation, which
represents 350 spinners, ginners and traders. “Indian mills
will consume more and we will have a small exportable surplus.”  Raw cotton exports from India will be unchanged in
2013-2014, while yarn exports will increase on rising demand
from  China , Tracey Allen, an analyst with Rabobank Group, said
in an e-mailed interview. “Domestic consumption is expected to
increase 5 percent on year to 22 million bales, mainly driven by
the growing demand for Indian cotton yarn,” she said.  Monsoon Onset  Planting begins this month in Punjab and Haryana, regions
with irrigation, while sowing in the rest of the country will
begin with the onset of the next monsoon rains in June.  India’s monsoon rains may be normal this year as it is an
El Nino-neutral year, Jatin Singh, chief executive of Skymet
Weather Services Pvt., said on March 13. The chances of a
drought are only 4 percent, said Singh, who correctly predicted
a drought in 2009.  A rally in prices in India may still spur farmers to stick
with cotton, said Dhiren Sheth, chairman of the Cotton
Association of India. Futures have rallied for six straight
months through March, advancing 20 percent, on the Multi
Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. in Mumbai.  “Cotton doesn’t require much water, so the crop should be
fine even if there is less water,” Sheth said. “Planting may
be similar to last season’s because prices have been good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  