-- Covington, Morgan Lewis, Shearman: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-04-08T11:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/covington-morgan-lewis-shearman-business-of-law.html
Covington & Burling LLP sought to
overturn a judge’s ruling disqualifying the firm from working
for  Minnesota  on a lawsuit alleging 3M Co. polluted state
waters.  In oral arguments April 4 before a state appeals court
panel, the parties faced off over whether Covington’s previous
work for 3M on perfluorinated (PFC) compounds was substantially
related to its work for Minnesota.  “Disqualification of Covington would be a devastating and
quite possible fatal blow to the state’s case,” Minnesota’s
lawyers wrote in court filings.  Covington lawyer William Greaney is representing Minnesota
in the environmental suit. Peter Hutt, former chief counsel of
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and a senior counsel at
Covington, advised 3M on matters involving PFC’s in microwave
food packaging beginning in 1992.  “Mr. Hutt largely ended his work for 3M in 2000, when he
transitioned his files to another Covington partner, Marialuisa Gallozzi,” Washington-based Covington said in court papers.
“Like Mr. Hutt, Ms. Gallozzi provided no environmental advice
to 3M nor was she asked to do.”  3M, based in Maplewood, Minnesota, said in court papers
that Covington’s representation was in conflict with a prior
agreement that the firm not undertake representation on
“substantially related matters.” 3M claims Covington misled
them about conflicts, which was why the firm didn’t object to
Covington’s counsel until 16 months into the case, when the
pretrial exchange of evidence was almost complete.  While the state and Covington have argued that the two
matters were separate, 3M said that in taking on the Minnesota
environmental matter, Covington had to change its claims about
the chemical’s safety.  “In representing the state, Covington was required to
attack positions it had espoused a few years earlier on 3M’s
behalf,” 3M said in its court filings.  A district court judge sided with 3M, finding a conflict
and disqualifying Covington in an October ruling.  The law firm, which has worked on behalf of Minnesota on
environmental matters over the past 17 years, has already spent
20,000 hours in the 22 months since the case was first filed and
has developed the factual legal and scientific basis for the
case, according to court papers. Disqualifying Covington could
derail the proceedings because the firm took the case on a
contingency basis, allowing the state to afford to bring the
suit.  Covington referred calls for comment to Benjamin Wogsland
in the Minnesota Attorney General’s Office. Wogsland didn’t
return a phone call seeking comment on the dispute. A 3M
spokeswoman, Jacqueline Berry, also didn’t return a phone call
seeking comment.  The appeals panel included judges Randolph Peterson, Edward
Cleary and  John Smith , according to Lissa Finne, a spokeswoman
for the court. The court has 90 days to issue an opinion.  The lower-court case is Minnesota v. 3M Co., 27-CV-10-28862, Hennepin County District Court ( Minneapolis ).  Law Firms  ResCap Investigation Costs Expected to Rise to $82.75 Million  A court-ordered investigation in Residential Capital LLC’s
bankruptcy case is estimated to cost $82.75 million, more than
double an earlier calculation by the ex-judge leading the probe.  Arthur Gonzalez , a former Manhattan bankruptcy judge who
was appointed as examiner last year to run the investigation,
estimated the fees for advisers in a filing April 5 in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  “The investigation has proven to be an enormous
undertaking,” lawyers for Gonzalez said.  Gonzalez is represented by Chadbourne & Parke LLP. His
conflicts counsel is Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz LLP.  He was appointed in July in the mortgage company’s
bankruptcy to investigate transactions between ResCap and parent
 Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  as well as Cerberus Capital Management,
claims ResCap proposes to release, and claims against officers
and directors.  Gonzalez estimated in August that the report would cost $29
million to $36 million.  In the April 5 filing, Gonzalez said his lawyers will cost
$44 million, with financial professionals making $38.2 million
in fees. His own fee would be $550,000. He said the report
should be completed in early May.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-bk-12020,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  News  Admiral Plans Legal Venture After Government Bans Referral Fees  Admiral Group Plc (ADM) , the U.K. auto insurer that owns
confused.com, started joint ventures with two law firms after
the government banned the practice of selling details of
customers who have been in accidents.  Admiral will form the partnerships with Lyons Davidson and
Cordner Lewis Solicitors beginning May 1, the Cardiff, Wales-based company said April 5 in a statement. The government on
April 1 banned so-called referral fees paid to insurers.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  outlawed the fees as part of
an attempt to bring down the cost of motor insurance, which has
climbed by more than a third over the past four years as claims
soared due to the success of lawyers working on contingency fees
and spurious injuries. By bringing the legal services in-house,
Admiral gets to maintain revenue from successful legal claims
against other insurers.  “This is about protecting a revenue stream from law firms
that has just become outlawed,” said  Kevin Ryan , a London-based
analyst at  Investec Plc (INVP)  with a sell rating on the stock. “The
challenge will now be to charge the customer for using the
service.”  The ventures won’t make a “material contribution” to
Admiral’s profit in the foreseeable future, the insurer said.  Lehman Brokerage Trustee Seeks $25 Million in Fees, Expenses  Lehman Brothers Inc. brokerage trustee James Giddens asked
a judge to approve almost $25 million in fees and expenses for
the period from March to June 30, according to a filing in
federal court in Manhattan.  Giddens and his law firm, Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP, have
so far received $212.7 million in fees and expenses for work on
liquidating the brokerage since September 2008.  After 4 1/2 years, the defunct firm’s hedge fund and bank
creditors are still awaiting their first payment. This month,
Giddens will ask a bankruptcy judge to let him put $15.7 billion
into a fund for customers, out of the $25.7 billion he is
holding. He has said that customers will be paid in full.  NYU School of Law Picks Columbia’s Trevor Morrison as New Dean  New York University School of Law  named constitutional law
expert and Columbia Law School professor Trevor Morrison as its
new dean. He succeeds Richard Revesz, who will step down from
the position on May 31, according to a statement.  “I am very pleased that Trevor Morrison will be NYU Law’s
next dean,” NYU President John Sexton said in the statement.
Sexton, who was dean of the law school from 1988 to 2002, picked
Morrison from a slate of candidates prepared by a search
committee.  Revesz, who held the post for 11 years, will remain on the
law school faculty and direct NYU’s newly formed Marron
Institute on Cities and the Urban Environment, according to the
statement.  “It gives me great comfort and confidence to know that
leadership of the Law School is passing into Trevor’s very
capable hands. He has the talent, energy, and vision to take an
already exceptional institution to new levels of excellence,”
Revesz said in a statement.  Virginia Lawyer Pleads Guilty in $100 Million SBA Loan Fraud  A Virginia lawyer pleaded guilty in a fraud scheme that
prosecutors said resulted in more than $100 million in losses in
loans guaranteed by the  U.S. Small Business Administration .  Seung E. Oh, 44, of Great Falls, entered her plea to  money
laundering  and conspiracy to commit bank fraud April 5 in
federal court in Baltimore.  Oh used her law firm and a settlement company she owned to
“facilitate loan closings for deals that would otherwise fail
to meet the lending parameters of the banks making the loans,”
according to her plea agreement.  Oh and other conspirators misrepresented to banks and to
the SBA the true amount of money involved in loan closings,
“and/or the true names of the parties taking part in the
transactions,” the plea agreement says.  Taxpayers, through the SBA, guaranteed 75 percent to 90
percent of each loan, leaving the lenders on the hook for the
rest, according to an e-mailed statement from U.S Attorney Rod Rosenstein’s office.  Oh collaborated with Joon Park and Loren Park, brothers who
owned Jade Capital, a Virginia loan brokerage, in arranging for
the fraudulent loans, according to Rosenstein’s statement.  Oh faces a maximum penalty of 30 years in prison for the
bank fraud conspiracy charge and as many as 20 years for money
laundering.  Joon Park pleaded guilty to bank fraud conspiracy and is
scheduled for sentencing on May 28. Four other participants in
the scheme already have been sentenced.  The case is U.S. v. Park, 11-cr-00600, U.S. District Court,
District of Maryland (Baltimore).  Deals  Morgan Lewis Advises MetLife on Sale to Cetera Financial Group  Cetera Financial Group Inc., the brokerage backed by
private-equity firm Lightyear Capital LLC, agreed to buy two of
 MetLife Inc. (MET) ’s broker-dealer affiliates with $25 billion under
management.  Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP was MetLife’s legal counsel.
Law firm Sutherland Asbill & Brennan LLP advised Cetera.  The  Morgan Lewis  team was led by business and finance
partner R. Alec Dawson and included business and finance partner
Sheryl Orr and investment management and securities industry
partner John Ayanian.  Sutherland’s attorneys on the deal include partners B.
Scott Burton and Douglas Leary.  MetLife agreed to sell Tower Square Securities and Walnut
Street Securities, which have about 850 advisers, the New York-based insurer said April 5 in a statement. After the deal is
completed, El Segundo, California-based Cetera will have more
than $130 billion in client assets, the firm said in a
statement. The companies didn’t disclose the price.  Lightyear Capital, founded by former Paine Webber Group
Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Donald Marron , 78, is among firms
building brokerage businesses as they seek stable revenues from
advising individual investors on their portfolios. The New York-based private-equity firm started Cetera about three years ago
when it bought the ING Advisor Network.  The deal allows MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, to
focus on its “core distribution relationships, including its
affiliated broker-dealer organization,” Eric Steigerwalt, the
company’s executive vice president, said in the statement. The
insurer still owns the New England Securities Corp. and MetLife
Securities broker-dealers.  For more, click here.  Moves  Lateral Moves Round-Up: Shearman, Lowenstein, Nelson Mullins  Shearman & Sterling LLP expanded its financial regulatory
practice with the addition of David L. Portilla, who recently
served as a senior policy adviser to the U.S. Treasury
Department’s Financial Stability Oversight Council office. He
will join as counsel in the firm’s New York office on April 8,
Shearman said in a statement.  Christopher C. Loeber has joined law firm Lowenstein
Sandler LLP as partner in the firm’s insurance coverage practice
in Roseland,  New Jersey . Previously, he was a partner at Morgan,
Lewis & Bockius LLP.  Barnes & Thornburg LLP announced that Peter M. Reyes Jr.
has joined the firm’s Minneapolis office as a partner in the
intellectual property department. He was previously at Cargill,
Inc., the firm said.  In  Washington , Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough LLP
announced that Dwight Smith joined the firm as a partner to
counsel clients on financial and regulatory issues. A former
deputy chief counsel for business transactions at the Office of
Thrift Supervision, he was previously senior of counsel at
 Morrison & Foerster LLP , the firm said.  Banking and mergers and acquisitions lawyer Annette L. Tripp joined Thompson & Knight LLP as a partner in the finance
practice group of the firm’s Houston office. Prior to joining
Thompson & Knight, she was a partner at Sutherland Asbill &
Brennan LLP in Houston.  In  Boston , Saul Ewing LLP added Peter Lauro and Melissa
Hunter-Ensor as partners in the business and finance, life
sciences and intellectual property and technology practices.
Lauro and Hunter-Ensor are registered patent attorneys. Both
lawyers were previously at Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  