-- Credit Suisse, Julius Baer May Close Undeclared German Accounts
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-04-08T18:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/credit-suisse-julius-baer-may-close-undeclared-german-accounts.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Julius
Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  are ready to close the accounts of German
clients who can’t prove they comply with their tax requirements,
officials at both companies said.  “We’re advising German customers to check their personal
situation and if necessary to clean it up,” Marc Dosch, a
spokesman for Zurich-based Credit Suisse, said today by phone.
“If that doesn’t happen we will have to terminate the client
relationship at some point.”  Switzerland, the world’s largest center for offshore
wealth, is trying to shed its image as a haven for undeclared
funds amid scrutiny from U.S. and European governments. The
banks are also under pressure to crack down on tax dodgers as
the Swiss government pursues a domestic “white-money” strategy
for the financial center.  Credit Suisse is asking some German customers to provide
documents proving they are tax compliant. German clients should
check their compliance and clear it up if necessary, Chief
Executive Officer Brady Dougan said in an interview with
Handelsblatt newspaper last month. The move follows a rejection
in December by Germany’s parliament of a proposed tax accord
between Germany and Switzerland.  Zurich-based Julius Baer, which opened offices in Germany
to try to retain customers who might repatriate funds, has said
it no longer accepts any undeclared assets.  “We are encouraging our clients to carefully assess their
fiscal duties and advising them to seek professional advice,”
Jan Vonder Muehll, a spokesman for Julius Baer, said by phone
today. While no accounts have been closed so far, “ultimately
this could lead to the end of a relationship,” he said.  Tax Deal  The comments follow an April 6 report in Switzerland’s
Tages-Anzeiger newspaper that Credit Suisse, Julius Baer and  UBS
AG (UBSN) , the nation’s largest wealth manager, may close accounts of
German account holders who fail to provide documentation they’ve
paid their taxes.  “We support clients in regularizing their assets,”
Christoph Meier, a Zurich-based spokesman for UBS, said by e-
mail on April 6.  Germany’s Parliament rejected a bilateral solution over
undeclared accounts in Switzerland in November after opposition
parties said the agreement contained too many loopholes for tax
evaders. The accord proposed by the Swiss would have enabled
customers to keep their identities secret while paying a
withholding tax.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  