-- Danish Mortgage Banks Welcome Central Bank Shift on IO Loans
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-04-08T13:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/danish-mortgage-banks-welcome-central-bank-shift-on-amortization.html
Denmark’s mortgage bankers welcomed
a shift in stance from the central bank that removes pressure on
the industry to phase out interest-only loans.  Central bank Governor Lars Rohdesaid he doesn’t see the
need to abandon interest-only loans, arguing it’s good for
Denmark’s home-loan industry to have a broad range of products
to offer borrowers. Instead, banks should exercise more
restraint in handing out the loans, Rohde said in an interview
published today.  “Rohde still wants something done about interest-only
loans but he wants the mortgage banks to take the initiative
themselves, and we think that is the right way to do it,”
Karsten Beltoft, the head of the Danish Mortgage Bankers’
Federation, said in a telephone interview today. “And we have
taken the initiative. Let’s see now how it will change the
situation.”  Rohde’s defense of interest-only loans marks a departure
from the line adopted by his predecessor, Nils Bernstein, who
argued the products were inherently risky and should be phased
out. Since their introduction in 2003, the mortgages have grown
to make up 56 percent of Denmark’s home-loan market, industry
figures show.  `Totally Disappear'  “Bernstein wanted them to totally disappear from the
market but it’s impossible to say you can’t have interest-only
loans. Customers will just go to the banks,” Beltoft said.
“You can’t make them disappear. You can only make them
disappear from the mortgage banks. That would make them more
expensive, if that’s what you want.”  Rohde did say loan-to-value ratios on interest-only loans
should probably be “significantly” lower than the 80 percent
regulatory cap that applies to most of the rest of Denmark’s
residential mortgage market, a change the industry opposes.  “We don’t agree that the LTV limit for interest-only loans
should be lower,” Ane Arnth Jensen, director of the Association
of Danish Mortgage Banks, said by phone. The loans are “to some
extent more risky” but banks are handling that risk by making
sure borrowers can afford to pay both interest and principal
when taking out a loan, she said.  “Mortgage banks also have increased the margins on
interest-only loans,” Arnth Jensen said. “So yes, there is a
higher risk but the higher risk has been handled by these steps
that the mortgage banks have taken.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  