-- Deloitte Revenue Boosted by Emerging Markets, CEO Salzberg Says
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-04-08T11:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/deloitte-revenue-boosted-by-emerging-markets-ceo-salzberg-says.html
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd.’s
 emerging markets  business is leading revenue growth as faster
economic expansion in countries including India, China and the
Middle East region boosts demand for financial advice.  Deloitte, whose services include audit, consulting and
corporate restructuring advice, will post “about the same
growth” in revenue this year as last year’s 8.6 percent rise
supported by emerging markets, Chief Executive Officer Barry
Salzberg said in an interview in Dubai April 4. Revenue from
advisory services was growing at double-digit rates, he said.  Deloitte’s revenue rose to $31.3 billion in the fiscal year
ending May 31, increasing at the fastest pace in four years, its
 results  show. The firm has committed to investing about $750
million over the next three fiscal years in 11 priority markets,
mostly on people. That will boost headcount to 250,000 by the
middle of 2016 from about 200,000, Salzberg said.  “The fastest growing markets for us are the emerging
markets, and we are seeing strength in markets like  India , China
and Brazil” Salzberg said. Deloitte is very “bullish” on the
Middle East as well and is investing in the region, he said.  Gulf Arab countries from  Saudi Arabia  to Qatar and the
 United Arab Emirates  are spending billions of dollars to build
houses,  power plants  and refineries to diversify their
economies, boosting demand for financial advisory services.
Economic growth in most countries in the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council will be 4 percent or higher this year,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a report today.  Deloitte expects its business in Saudi Arabia and Libya to
grow as governments boost investments, Salzberg said.  The company, which trails Ernst & Young in the  Middle East ,
expects to increase the number of employees in the region by as
much as 10 percent this year from about 2,700, said Omar Fahoum,
CEO of Deloitte Middle East. A shortage of talent, enhancing
operational efficiency and public sector transformation were
some of the region’s key issues, Fahoum said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  