-- Deposit Insurance Goals Limited by Politics, Rohde Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-04-08T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/deposit-insurance-goals-limited-by-politics-rohde-says.html
Danish central bank Governor Lars Rohde said political hurdles are forcing the European Union to
stop short of adopting a cross-border  deposit insurance  system
and instead rely on national guarantees.  “It’s not ideal, but you have to remember that this is a
political question,” Rohde said of the EU strategy, which calls
on nations to adopt common standards for deposit insurance while
maintaining their own funds. The EU already requires nations to
guarantee deposits for account holders up to 100,000 euros
($130,000) per bank.  In an April 5 interview, Rohde supported the strategy to
begin with common bank supervision, followed by a push toward a
common approach for shutting down or restructuring failing
banks. Common deposit insurance isn’t part of the plan because
 Germany  and other like-minded nations fear they’d bear too many
costs on behalf of other countries.  “As things stand, there might be some concerns and
suspicions surrounding some corners of the bank system and in
some countries,” Rohde said. “There’s a certain logic in
starting with a common supervision, which should ensure that we
have a more unified quality.”  EU leaders last year decided to press for banking union to
contain a debt crisis that’s now been raging for three years and
has left five of the euro area’s 17 members relying on bailouts.
European Commission data show the bloc’s governments have
injected 1.7 trillion euros into their banking systems since
2008 as the fates of nations depended on the survival of their
financial industries.  Test Case  Cyprus last month became a test case for investor losses as
euro-area authorities required that the nation’s two biggest
banks be restructured as a condition of a 10 billion-euro
rescue. The model unleashed anxiety across  Europe  that creditors
elsewhere might be required to accept similar losses. Luxembourg
said a lack of clear rules risked spurring chaos. Dutch Finance
Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said that countries need to rein in
their bank systems or face EU consequences.  Uninsured depositors and all categories of bank bondholders
have been in the crosshairs as the EU rethinks how to break the
bank-sovereign link.  Denmark , whose banks hold assets about four
times the size of the $300 billion economy, led the way in
shutting down banks and tapping creditors to protect taxpayers.  State Resolution  The 2011 failure of Amagerbanken A/S -- the first in the EU
to trigger senior creditor losses within a state resolution
framework -- pushed up funding costs across Denmark’s entire
financial industry.  The nation’s reluctance to bail out its troubled banks has
spared taxpayers losses. The government said in January it made
a profit of 11.2 billion kroner ($1.95 billion) on its banking
crisis containment efforts, after sponsoring hybrid instruments
and backing senior funding instead of buying equity.  European leaders are working toward a June timetable to set
minimum standards for individual deposit guarantee plans at the
27  member states . The deposit-insurance standards are on hold
while the EU concentrates on parallel proposals to spell out
which investors will absorb losses when a bank fails, also due
in June, to be followed by plans for an EU-wide bank resolution
authority.  Future efforts to achieve common deposit insurance look set
to require more extensive cross-border bank supervision than the
current national patchwork. Policy makers are also considering
whether banks offering higher deposit rates should pay higher
insurance premiums to back their savers.  Common Financing?  “The question is should we have common financing backing
deposit guarantees,” Rohde said. “The answer is probably that
it requires more sophisticated premium calculations that reflect
the higher risk with certain institutions.”  EU lawmakers and national governments agreed on March 19 to
a provisional deal to turn the  European Central Bank  into a
supervisor for banks in the  euro zone  and other willing nations.
The ECB has maintained that if depositors are protected
consistently across the euro zone, including guarantees for
small accounts and preference for uninsured depositors over
other types of unsecured creditors, further measures aren’t
needed.  The current EU deposit-guarantee proposal “provides a
harmonized framework and should help shore up confidence in
national schemes,” said ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  in
a  March speech . “This means that a single European scheme is
not an essential component of banking union in the short term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  