-- Dimon Exit Seen Hastened If JPMorgan Names Separate Chairman
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-04-08T16:22:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/dimon-exit-seen-hastened-if-jpmorgan-splits-ceo-chairman-roles.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  investors risk
shortening  Jamie Dimon ’s tenure as chief executive officer if
they appoint a separate chairman to help lead the bank,
according to Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners.  “If the board is forced by a shareholder vote to strip
Jamie Dimon of his chairman’s role, then shareholders may find
that Jamie Dimon decides to move on, maybe not immediately but
within the year,” Peabody wrote in a note to clients today.
“If that were to occur, is there someone with Mr. Dimon’s
talents capable of stepping into the breach?”  Calls for Dimon, 57, to give up the chairmanship have been
building since the bank disclosed risk-control lapses on
derivatives bets last year that fueled more than $6.2 billion in
losses. In March, the New York-based firm’s board urged
investors to vote against naming a separate chairman at the next
shareholder meeting, saying that Dimon’s dual role remains the
“most effective leadership model.”  Dimon told investors in February that he wouldn’t have
agreed to take a previous job, leading Bank One Corp., if the
board hadn’t given him both roles, Peabody recalled. JPMorgan
acquired Bank One in 2004 to create the company it is today.  “Troubled company, big turnaround, divided board,” Dimon
said in February. “Not me. Life is too short.”  If Dimon leaves, “shareholders may just find that the
stock loses its premium valuation,” wrote Peabody, whose firm
predicts JPMorgan will underperform the Standard and Poor’s 500
Financials Index in the coming 12 months.  Share Performance  Since Dimon added the chairman title at the end of 2006,
JPMorgan’s stock has slid less than 1 percent through last week.
That compares with a 51 percent drop in the index. The firm
trades at 0.93 times book value, a measure of assets minus
liabilities. That’s still more than  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s 0.7 ratio
and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s 0.59, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Joe Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment
on Peabody’s note. A shareholder proposal to appoint an
independent chairman failed with 40 percent of the vote last
year.  The Federal Reserve and Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency censured JPMorgan in January over failures in risk
controls for the so-called London Whale trades as well as for
lapses in anti-money laundering controls. Last month, Senate
investigators said in a report that the bank and its leaders
dodged regulators and then misled investors as losses escalated
on the bets.  Pay Cut  The board cut Dimon’s pay in half for 2012 after concluding
that he bore some responsibility for the debacle. It also
credited his leadership for the lender’s performance. JPMorgan,
the largest bank in the U.S. with $2.4 trillion in assets,
reported a third straight year of record profits in 2012 with
$21.3 billion in net income.  A coalition of  retirement plans , including the AFSCME
pension fund, is pressing to separate Dimon’s roles.  The fund said in February that its views reflect “mounting
investor concerns with the board’s oversight in the wake of the
London Whale losses, recent regulatory sanctions and its failure
to fully demonstrate that it can manage the size and complexity
of its balance sheet.”  JPMorgan would probably wait to split the roles because
doing so now “would look like a rebuke to Jamie,” said former
Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Arthur Levitt .  ‘Yes Man’  “That title will be divided,” Levitt said today in an
interview with  Tom Keene  on  Bloomberg Radio . “Not now, a year
from now.”  Levitt is a board member of Bloomberg LP, the parent of
 Bloomberg News , and an adviser to firms including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)   Having an independent chairman doesn’t necessarily improve
results for shareholders, Peabody said. Investors should look to
Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank, where Chairman  Michael O’Neill  led a “political assassination” of then-CEO Vikram Pandit in October, Peabody wrote. O’Neill used shareholder
dissatisfaction to install a “yes man,”  Michael Corbat , as CEO
and to consolidate his power, Peabody said.  O’Neill’s ouster of Pandit hasn’t led to any significant
change in strategy, Peabody said. There was probably a greater
separation of powers between O’Neill and Pandit than there is
now, the analyst said in a phone interview.  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup,
declined to comment on Peabody’s views.  “In either case, political desires, more than good
corporate governance, are at work,” Peabody wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  