-- Draghi Rebound Doubt Pushing Belka Back to Easing: Poland Credit
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-04-08T09:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/draghi-rebound-doubt-pushing-belka-back-to-easing-poland-credit.html
Poland’s interest-rate setters may
just be postponing the inevitable.  Central bank Governor Marek Belka signaled in March that
policy makers will put a “full stop” on cuts to borrowing
costs after reducing them to a record because the economy is
poised for a “very gradual” recovery. That scenario may need
revising after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
on April 4 that risks to the outlook remain on the downside for
the euro region, Poland’s biggest trading partner.  “Some weakness is resurfacing in the euro area and the ECB
is signaling its unease,”  Rafal Benecki , chief economist for
Poland at ING Groep NV, said by phone from Warsaw on April 5.
“That’s one of the factors that may convince the Polish central
bank to cut rates again in the second quarter.”  Derivative traders are betting on rates falling by 37 basis
points in three months’ time, the most since Feb. 5, according
to the difference between forward-rate agreements, or FRAs, and
the Warsaw interbank offered rate. The yield on two-year zloty
notes fell to a record low today, narrowing the premium over
similar German bonds to 297 basis points, the least in two
months.  Rate Forecast  All 34 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect no change to
 Poland ’s main rate, currently at 3.25 percent, when policy
makers conclude a two-day meeting on April 10. Borrowing costs
won’t change through the end of the year after a total of 150
basis points of reductions since November, according to a median
estimate in a separate survey of 20 economists.  Still, traders of FRAs are increasingly convinced an easing
of policy will resume after reports showed a contraction in
manufacturing deepened last month, while retail sales fell and
unemployment rose to a six-year high in February.  The FRAs suggest a quarter-point cut through June, a month
before the central bank publishes its next inflation forecast.
The Monetary Policy Council can wait for the report before
deciding on more rate changes, Anna Zielinska-Glebocka, one of
the panel’s 10 members, told Reuters on March 19.  “Markets will continue pricing much lower rates,” Dmitri Barinov, who helps manage about $2.6 billion in emerging-
European debt at Union Investment Privatfonds in  Frankfurt , said
by e-mail on April 5. “Even if they don’t cut now, the
prolonged weak set of data over months and quarters will make
them lose their nerve. They will even overreact.”  Magyar Measures  While Polish monetary-policy makers are hoping for an
economic rebound in the second half of the year, the Hungarian
central bank last week announced steps to spur lending and tap
currency reserves in a bid to end the country’s second recession
in four years. Poland isn’t working on similar measures, Belka
told reporters on April 4.  Belka and his fellow rate-setters were so confident that
the economy would weather the euro region’s debt crisis that
they unexpectedly raised borrowing costs in May 2012 to curb
 rises  in consumer prices. Nine months later, the rate of
inflation fell to 1.3 percent, below the central bank’s
tolerance range of 1.5 percent to 3.5 percent.  The  Finance Ministry  has blamed the central bank for
exacerbating the current slowdown by cutting “too little, too
late,”  Ludwik Kotecki , the ministry’s chief economist, told
 Gazeta Wyborcza  in an interview last week.  The  budget deficit  reached 70 percent of this year’s target
in the first quarter as  tax revenue  waned.  Stifled Growth  Poland is poised for its weakest growth in 12 years after
being the only European Union economy to avoid a recession since
2009, when the government cut taxes to boost  consumer spending .
The moves widened the budget  deficit  to 7.9 percent of gross
domestic product, the biggest gap since at least 1996.  Prime Minister Donald Tusk pledged to narrow the deficit as
required by the EU, limiting options to stimulate the economy.
The shortfall reached 3.5 percent of GDP last year.  Belka blamed the government’s spending cuts on stifling
growth rather than his central bank’s policy. Fiscal cuts were
“the most important factor behind the slowing of growth in
2012,” Belka said at a seminar in Warsaw last week.  The zloty strengthened 0.2 percent to 4.1492 per euro at
11:17 a.m. in Warsaw. The extra yield investors demand to hold
Polish dollar-denominated bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries fell
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 131, according to
indexes compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co. The additional yield on
10-year zloty bonds over German bunds fell 10 basis points to a
two-month low of 232 today.  The cost of insuring Polish debt using credit-default swaps
rose less than one basis point to 86, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The swaps, which rise as perceptions of
creditworthiness deteriorate, pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower renege.  “An interest-rate cut now won’t have a meaningful impact
on the economy this year as there is normally some lag before it
feeds through,”  Neil Shearing , an economist at Capital
Economics Ltd., said by phone from  London  on April 5. “It’s all
baked in the cake now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  