-- Druckenmiller Donation Helps Masters Charity Reach $6.8 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-04-08T15:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/druckenmiller-donation-helps-masters-charity-reach-6-8-million.html
Stanley Druckenmiller , one of the
best-performing hedge-fund managers of the past three decades
and an avid golfer, is among those who gave a total of $6.8
million to the  Masters Tournament  Foundation in 2011.  Druckenmiller, who shut down his hedge fund, Duquesne
Capital Management LLC, in 2010 after averaging annual returns
of 30 percent since 1986, gave $100,000 to the foundation, which
was created two years ago to fund global golf initiatives by the
private Augusta,  Georgia , club where the Masters Tournament, the
first major championship of the golf season, begins on April 11.  The first tax records filed for the foundation show 58
people or organizations donated to the private foundation, which
in turn gave $1.7 million to eight golf groups, including $1
million to the World Golf Foundation.  “That’s a lot of checks,” Andrew Morton, a Chicago-based
philanthropy attorney and chairman of the Sports & Entertainment
Law Group at Handler Thayer LLP, said in a telephone interview.
“Let’s face it, members of Augusta have a fairly well-known
allegiance to the club, so it’s not surprising that they would
have that broad base of support, but it’s still impressive. It
will be interesting to see what happens in Year 2. I would
suspect that they will attract even more donors.”  The 80-year-old club also gave $200,000 to the Augusta
chapter of the First Tee, a national organization that uses golf
to promote leadership and education among children.  This year’s Masters will be the first held with women among
the membership of Augusta National, after former U.S. Secretary
of State  Condoleezza Rice  and philanthropist Darla Moore were
added in August.  Female Donors  No women gave individually to the foundation. Several made
joint donations with their husbands or family institutions,
including Kelly and Lee Styslinger. Lee Styslinger, chairman of
Altec Inc., an electrical utility equipment leasing company and
a club member, played a round at Augusta National yesterday with
Rice and three-time champion  Phil Mickelson .  Among the recipients, $100,000 went to the LPGA Foundation,
the charity arm of the world’s leading women’s golf tour. It was
the same amount as the Masters Tournament Foundation gave to the
PGA Foundation, the U.S. Golf Association and PGA Tour
Charities.  Since 2007, Augusta National has forged new sponsorships
and broadcast deals, licensed a video game and built $13 million
worth of corporate hospitality facilities under the guidance of
club Chairman  Billy Payne .  Payne’s Money  Payne, who donated $100,000 through his Beard-Payne Family
Foundation, is among the many known club members who donated to
the foundation.  Payne, 65, declined to comment on the foundation’s finances
through tournament spokesman Steve Ethun.  Morton, who helps professional athletes set up public
charities, praised the club for establishing the non-profit arm
as a private foundation instead of a public charity. Private
foundations are subject to more detailed scrutiny of finances
under philanthropy laws, Morton said.  “They have taken the more transparent, more regulatory
approach,” Morton said. “I give them a lot of credit. It’s a
pretty safe bet that they opted for that route to alleviate any
concern about it being shady or self-dealing.”  Augusta National, co-founded in 1933 by Clifford Roberts, a
Wall Street investment banker, and  Bobby Jones , the only player
to sweep golf’s Grand Slam of major championships in one year,
gave the largest amount, with a $2.9 million contribution.  Revenue Sources  The funds were generated through sales of  Electronic Arts
Inc. (EA) ’s Tiger Woods PGA Tour 12 video game and tournament-related
proceeds.  Along with Druckenmiller, individual members who donated
included former  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  Chief
Executive Officer  Sam Palmisano  ($50,000);  John Harris , a North
Carolina real-estate developer and president of  Charlotte ’s
Quail Hollow Club ($100,000); Craig Heatley, founder of  New
Zealand ’s  Sky Network Television (SKT)  ($100,000); Rob Johnston, an
Atlanta apartment developer and operator ($100,000), and Thomas
Blanchard, an Augusta realtor ($20,0000).  Jim Armstrong, who will retire in September after 34 years
as the club’s executive director, gave $25,000, the same amount
given by Fred Ridley, an Augusta club member and former U.S.
Golf Association president who won the 1975 U.S. Amateur title.  Morris Communications Co., the closely held media company
founded by Augusta member Billy Morris, gave $10,000. The gift
from the publisher of the Augusta Chronicle matches the
foundation’s second-smallest donation.  Club Roster  Druckenmiller, a golfing regular at U.S. clubs including
Pittsburgh’s Oakmont,  California ’s Cypress Point, and  New York ’s
Shinnecock Hills and National Golf Links of America, joined
Augusta National within the past 10 years. He was not listed on
a published membership list in 2004.  Druckenmiller, 59, has a 7.1 golfing handicap index,
according to the U.S. Golf Association’s website. Through a
spokesman, he declined to comment on his donation to the
foundation.  James Dunne III, senior managing principal at Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP, also gave $100,000 to the Masters
foundation through his New York-based Cypress Foundation Inc.  Dunne gave a total of $623,180 to charities in 2011,
including $10,000 to the Nicklaus Children’s Health Care
Foundation, founded by six-time Masters champion  Jack Nicklaus .
Dunne has 4.1 handicap index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  