-- Lead in Kids’ Foods Draws Lawsuit Over Warning Labels
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-04-08T19:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/lead-in-kids-foods-draws-lawsuit-over-warning-labels.html
Dole Food Co. (DOLE)  and  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s Gerber
unit are among food makers facing a trial in  California  today
over accusations they violated a state law requiring them to
warn consumers of unsafe levels of lead in baby food, fruit and
juices.  Dole, Gerber and Del Monte Foods Co. all make children’s
foods that contain lead and should change their business
practices to bring the levels down or provide a warning under
California’s Proposition 65, a toxins-warning law, the
Environmental Law Foundation said in its 2011 suit.  Judge Stephen Brick in California Superior Court in Oakland
heard testimony today, the first day of a four-week trial, from
an expert for the food makers who said the foundation’s analysis
overestimates children’s exposure to lead in the products.  “Obviously this number greatly overestimates, because it
assumes you eat” the foods “every single day,” said Barbara
Petersen, principal scientist at Exponent, a scientific and
engineering consulting company.  The products include grape juice, packaged pears and
peaches along with baby foods containing those fruits, carrots
and sweet potatoes.  The stakes for the companies, food stores and consumers are
huge, said attorney Carol Brophy of Sedgwick LLP, who has
defended companies in Proposition 65 lawsuits. If Dole and the
others lose, the effects will go far beyond baby food, she said.  ‘Every Food”  “It’s going to require that in California every food will
have warnings, and it will be on everything,” Brophy, who’s not
involved in the case, said last week in a phone interview. “You
are going to scare mothers of children, and that’s a whole lot
of confusion in California. For California consumers, this isn’t
free. A jar of baby food is going to pay for that.”  Dole, based in  Westlake Village , California, is the world’s
biggest producer of fresh fruit. Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle
is the world’s biggest food company. Del Monte Foods, based in
San Francisco, is controlled by  KKR & Co. (KKR)   California is the only U.S. state with a right-to-know law
requiring businesses to warn consumers about products or
materials containing chemicals known to cause cancer or
reproductive toxicity. Proposition 65 warning signs and labels
are posted in stores, gas stations, office buildings and
restaurants. The law carries fines of $2,500 a day for each
violation.  The food companies say their products contain trace levels
of lead below the warning threshold of Proposition 65, according
to court filings.  FDA Positions  Even if the measure applied, the warnings wouldn’t be
allowed because they conflict with U.S. Food and Drug
Administration positions on lead in the foods in question,
Michele Corash of  Morrison & Foerster LLP , an attorney
representing the companies, said in a March 15 trial brief.  The FDA said in a February letter to the head of Washington
state’s agriculture department that Proposition 65 warnings for
lead are “unnecessary and would inaccurately portray the foods
as a health risk,” according to the brief.  Corash said the environmental group’s positions are based
on “unprecedented interpretations of the Proposition 65
regulations for which there is no legal or policy support.”  “The warning remedy plaintiff seeks, no matter how it is
framed, will mislead consumers, conflict with federal goals of
encouraging increased fruit and vegetable consumption, and make
it impossible for producers to comply with both the state and
federal requirements,” she said in the brief.  Nestle Comment  Wendy Johnson-Askew, a spokeswoman for Nestle in  Florham
Park ,  New Jersey , said the company will fight the allegations.
Marty Ordman, a Dole spokesman, didn’t return a voice-mail
message last week seeking a comment on the case.  Laura Baughman, an attorney at Baron & Budd PC who is
working with the Oakland-based Environmental Law Foundation on
the case, said companies can comply with both federal and state
laws regarding toxin warnings.  “That the FDA wants children to eat their vegetables does
not conflict with a Proposition 65 disclosure informing parents
which food products contain lead,” she said in a court filing.  The FDA letter to Washington State is inadmissible in court
and doesn’t provide the companies with a pre-emption defense
because it doesn’t prohibit them from complying with Proposition
65, she said.  Proposition 65 is enforced primarily through private
lawsuits against businesses. The lead-warning complaint also
targets grocery store companies for their house-brand foods.  On Hold  Those claims were put on hold and the grocery companies are
bound by the decisions of the Oakland judge, James Wheaton,
legal director at the  Environmental Law Foundation , said in a
phone interview.  Tuna companies won a Proposition 65 lawsuit in 2006 after
the state sued Bumble Bee Seafoods LLC and other tuna makers to
determine whether consumers should be warned about mercury in
the fish. A San Francisco judge ruled that federal law pre-empts
Proposition 65, that the amount of mercury was below the warning
threshold and that the mercury was “naturally occurring” and
thus exempt from the labeling requirement.  A state appeals court upheld the judge’s determination that
a warning wasn’t necessary because of evidence that mercury was
naturally occurring and declined to review the judge’s other two
reasons.  The case is Environmental Law Foundation v. Beech-Nut
Nutrition Corp., RG11597384, Alameda County, California,
Superior Court (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco 
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 