-- Echo Says Casino Business at Risk From Packer, Gold Coast Plans
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-04-08T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/echo-says-casino-business-at-risk-from-packer-gold-coast-plans.html
Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP) ’s two
largest casinos will be put at risk if a resort that billionaire
 James Packer  wants to build in Sydney and another in  Australia ’s
Gold Coast go ahead, the company said.  The long-term business of the Star and Jupiters depends on
holding monopolies in their areas, and Echo would have to cut
investment if competitors are allowed, John Redmond, chief
executive officer, said in an interview yesterday in Sydney.  Packer’s  Crown Ltd. (CWN)  wants to build a A$1 billion ($1
billion) hotel and casino targeting high-rolling Asian gamblers
on the shores of Sydney Harbour, while Queensland state’s
government has shortlisted bidders for a resort and cruise ship
terminal to bring  A$750 million  of annual tourism revenue to the
Gold Coast.  “Let’s get a significant amount of investment in one
facility and make sure it’s capitalised property, so it can
stand the test of time,” Redmond said. “To just come in and
say, ‘Let ten more operate’ -- people would start going down.”  Competing Bets  The Star and Jupiters casino groups accounted for about 84
percent of the A$1.69 billion in sales Echo got from its casinos
in the 12 months ended last June, according to the company’s
annual report. That includes revenue from Sydney, the  Gold
Coast , and the smaller Jupiters casino in the tropical
Queensland port of Townsville.  Echo shares  rose 3.4 percent yesterday to A$3.61 at the
close in Sydney, their biggest gain since Feb. 22. The stock has
fallen 15 percent over the past year as Crown has advanced plans
to build a rival casino in Sydney.  Echo didn’t put in a bid on the Gold Coast project because
the market is too small to support two casinos and cruise ships
would leach away gambling revenue from resorts on dry land,
Redmond said.  “It clearly doesn’t make sense to have more than one
casino in that market,” he said. “If there’s a second casino
there you can’t invest anywhere near the level you would have if
there was only one.”  China ’s biggest builder by market value, China State
Construction Engineering Corp., Auckland-based Skycity
Entertainment Group Ltd., and a unit of property company
Brookfield Asset Management, are involved in four bid
consortiums  shortlisted  by Queensland’s state government March
5.  One of the proposals for the development didn’t include a
casino, the government said, without saying which.  Sydney Harbour  Crown, which  Packer controls  through a 50 percent
shareholding, bought 10 percent of Echo last year and is
awaiting regulatory approval to lift its stake to 25 percent.
Cruise ship operator Genting Hong Kong Ltd. has a 5.2 percent
stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, which it’s
seeking to lift to the same level.  There also isn’t room for another casino in Sydney, Redmond
said, where Crown is seeking government backing for a resort
targeting high-rollers at the Barangaroo development site across
Sydney Harbour from Echo’s Star complex.  “This should be a one casino market,” he said. “Let’s
try to make sure that these properties are viable for a long
period of time.”  The Barangaroo project won’t be completed until 2018, a
year before a license expires granting Echo the right to operate
the city’s only casino, Larry Gandler, a Melbourne-based analyst
for Credit Suisse AG, said in an Aug. 13 note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  