-- Ecolab Settlement With U.S. Opens Way for Champion Deal
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-04-08T22:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/ecolab-settlement-with-u-s-opens-way-for-champion-deal.html
Ecolab Inc. reached a proposed
settlement with antitrust regulators that will allow it to
acquire Permian Mud Service Inc.’s Champion Technologies Inc.,
the  U.S. Justice Department  said.  The agreement would require the divestiture of Champion’s
chemical-management services for deep-water oil and gas wells in
the U.S. Gulf of  Mexico , according to a statement by the
department.  Without the transfer of Gulf assets, “the transaction
would lead to higher prices, reduced quality service and
diminished innovation,” according to the  statement .  As a result of the proposed agreement, the transaction is
expected to be completed “within the next several days,”
Ecolab said in a statement.  “We are pleased to have reached an agreement with DOJ on
this matter,” Douglas M. Baker, Ecolab’s chairman and chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  The deal would bolster Ecolab’s oilfield chemicals
business. The company placed the value of the transaction at
about $2.3 billion, including assumed debt.  The settlement, if approved by the U.S. District Court in
 Washington , would resolve a lawsuit filed today by the
department’s antitrust division to block the transaction by St.
Paul, Minnesota-based Ecolab.  Complaint Allegations  The proposed acquisition would eliminate significant
competition between Ecolab’s Nalco Company subsidiary and
Houston-based Champion, “the two leading providers of
production chemical management services for deepwater oil and
gas wells” in the Gulf and “would likely substantially lessen
competition,” according to the complaint.  The settlement would require Ecolab to divest to Muttenz,
Switzerland-based  Clariant Corp. (CLN)  specified Gulf assets of
Champion, including a patent and licenses for technology and an
option to buy a  chemical blending facility.  Michael Monahan, a spokesman for Ecolab, declined to
disclose the value assets Clariant is acquiring.  He said the divestiture agreement affects only about
3 percent of Champion’s business.  The case is U.S v.  Ecolab Inc. (ECL) , 13-cv-00444, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington
at   azajac@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 