-- Hedge Funds Wagering on Fannie Reincarnation: Mortgages
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n ,   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-04-08T21:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/hedge-funds-wagering-on-fannie-reincarnation-mortgages.html
Investors including hedge funds are
buying the preferred stock of government-controlled mortgage
firms  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac in a long-shot bet they will
have a future as private companies.  Fannie Mae (FNMA) ’s 8.25 percent of preferred shares have more
than doubled this year after the company reported record
earnings. Some investors see the odds rising the two loan
guarantors may somehow return to private ownership without
cutting out existing investors, according to Bose George, an
analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods in  New York . The securities
have a par value of $25, meaning investors could recoup more
than five times the current price of $4.26.  “The idea is eventually, as these companies have paid back
their debt to the government, they could potentially be turned
back on,” George said. “From our perspective, you can only
make an argument for this if you think the government’s going to
change the rules somehow to benefit the preferred
shareholders.”  The gains come after the U.S. Treasury Department changed
the terms of the enterprises’ bailout last year to force them to
turn over profits to the government. The agreement provides no
mechanism for them to repay the $187.5 billion they owe the
government from their 2008 bailout, a prerequisite to a change
in their status.  Millstein Plan  Jim Millstein , the U.S. Treasury Department’s former chief
restructuring officer, who’s been putting forward a plan to
privatize Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, said his firm Millstein &
Co. has been receiving more calls about the overhaul from
investment managers and policy groups in the past month after
the mortgage companies reported improved earnings and a Senate
proposal limiting outside use of their increased income.  “It’s premised on a turnaround in Fannie and Freddie’s
results and a financial restructuring that enables” them to
fully pay back the government, Millstein said. “That now looks
like less of a long shot after record earnings at Fannie Mae,”
said Millstein, who owns preferred shares in the firms.  “The real question is whether policy makers will use the
opportunity of these improved results to restructure Fannie and
Freddie, reform the government’s role as a guarantor of housing
finance and end the conservatorships,” he said. “Our plan is
at least one way to get that done without wrecking the recovery
underway in the  housing market .”  Bass Wagers  The recent jump in the preferred shares is a long overdue
boost for some investors who first started dabbling in the
investment several years ago. Kyle Bass, whose Dallas-based
hedge fund Hayman Advisors LP made $500 million in 2007 betting
against U.S. subprime mortgages, said at a conference in  Las
Vegas  in May 2011 that buying the preferred shares “could be an
eight to 10-bagger from here.” At the time, the securities were
trading at $2.40. A little more than a year later he told
website TheStreet.com that he’d exited the trade because
Republicans and Democrats wanted to kill Fannie Mae and  Freddie
Mac . Bass didn’t return calls for comment.  Jeffrey Bernardo, chief executive officer of Augustine
Asset Management, said his firm started buying Fannie Mae
preferred securities a few years ago, when they were trading for
less than a dollar and were priced like an option.  “The turn in the housing market has helped Fannie generate
profits again,” said Bernardo, whose Jacksonville, Florida-
based firm oversees $275 million. “One might think there is a
future profit stream.”  Washington-based Fannie Mae and McLean, Virginia-based
Freddie Mac buy mortgages from lenders and package them into
securities on which they guarantee payments of principal and
interest. Since they were taken into conservatorship in 2008,
the two companies have drawn $187.5 billion from Treasury and
have sent back $65.2 billion in dividends, which count as a
return on the government’s investment and not as a repayment.  Congressional Approval  A group of lawmakers including Massachusetts Democrat
 Elizabeth Warren , and Senator  David Vitter , a Louisiana
Republican, on March 14 introduced a bill that would ensure
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac couldn’t emerge from government
control even if they end up paying more to the Treasury than
they took in aid. The measure would ban sales of senior-ranking
U.S. Treasury-owned preferred shares without Congressional
approval and includes a provision blocking the use of fee
increases at the enterprises to fund other  government spending ,
moves some investors view as protecting the preferred shares.  The securities jumped last week after Fannie Mae said April
2 it had net income of $17.2 billion for 2012, compared with a
loss of $16.9 billion in 2011. Freddie Mac reported in February
that it earned $11 billion in 2012, compared with a loss of $5.3
billion in 2011. They fell 1.2 percent as of 3:59 p.m. in New
York to $4.26. They’re up from $1.67 since the end of 2012.  ‘Total Casino’  Holders of Fannie Mae’s common stock, who would be last in
line to recover money in a bankruptcy or so-called receivership,
have seen the shares more than triple this year to 90 cents,
giving the company a market capitalization of about $5 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Freddie Mac shares have
more than tripled to 86 cents since December.  Users on  Investors Hub , an Internet message board popular
with  day traders , have been talking up the Fannie Mae shares
since the earnings release.  “On the common stock side, I think it’s a total casino,”
George said. “It’s not very rational.”  Raise Capital  Before any privatization, the companies would need to raise
“a great deal” of capital along with repaying the government,
Ralph Axel, a Bank of America Corp. analyst, wrote in a March 15
report. New shares would dilute existing holders and the
Treasury sweeps of their profits will keep their net worth at no
more than $3 billion, a figure that will fall to zero over time.
Fannie Mae said in its annual report it owns or guarantees $3.1
trillion of debt.  Regulators who took Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into
conservatorship in 2008 didn’t create an avenue for them to
regain independence. President  Barack Obama  and Democrats and
Republicans in Congress have pledged to wind down and replace
the two companies instead.  About half of small and regional banks who held Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac preferred shares when they were taken into
conservatorships still own them, said  Paul Merski , chief
economist at the  Independent Community Bankers of America . More
than 600 U.S. depository institutions suffered at least $8
billion of investment losses, after the lenders ended up as
large holders in the stock because of its favorable regulatory
treatment, according to a  paper  last year by Federal Reserve
researchers.  Their advocacy for the assets to retain value in any
restructuring of the U.S. mortgage-finance system may help  hedge
funds  in  Washington . “The community banks have good standing
and reputation with policy makers,” Merski said. “They didn’t
contribute to the financial meltdown.”  ‘Zero Support’  Ed Mills, an analyst at FBR Capital Markets said there’s
“zero support” among politicians to have the government-
sponsored enterprises come back to life and that the firms’
profitability will face further challenges as they’re forced to
shrink. Investors have still been calling him more often about
the trade over the past few weeks.  “There’s a lot of momentum behind this,” said Mills,
adding he’s spent about 20 hours on the phone discussing it.
“Ultimately, as GSE reform is completed, in that bill, the
chance that nothing is given to the shareholders is high.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  