-- Edison Backs Clean Power Finance’s Online Marketplace for Solar
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-04-08T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/edison-backs-clean-power-finance-s-online-marketplace-for-solar.html
Edison International (EIX) , the owner of
 California ’s second-largest utility, bought a stake in Clean
Power Finance Inc. to help the company expand its online
financing service for residential solar energy systems.  Two additional power companies “that look a lot like
Edison” also invested for the first time in Clean Power Finance
as part of its $37 million Series C funding round, Chief
Executive Officer Nat Kreamer said in a phone interview. He
wouldn’t say how much each provided.  Closely held Clean Power Finance, based in San Francisco,
has a software platform that connects investors with solar
energy installers that are seeking funding to complete projects.
Power companies have invested in the business model because it
allows them to own part of the rooftop solar industry, Kreamer
said.  “They recognize that distributed solar is a fast-growing
segment of power generation and that there’s real money to be
made there,” he said. “The power company of the future will
own both centralized wholesale generation as well as distributed
generation,” he said.  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  has said it may expand into rooftop
solar.  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) , the biggest power provider to U.S.
utilities, last month said it’s started installing rooftop solar
panels on homes.  “This strategic round for us, with large power companies,
is demonstrative of that,” Kreamer said. “You’re starting to
see people really taking an interest.”  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  have funded projects through
Clean Power Finance’s service, which is currently managing about
$500 million in project financing transactions, Kreamer said.  More Products  The company will use the investments to expand its services
into new markets and “come up with more innovative products,”
possibly a form of debt for “lending against the value of the
solar system,” Kreamer said.  Clean Power Finance’s revenue increased by 325 percent in
2012, and most of that came from transaction fees earned through
its online financing marketplace, Kreamer said.  The Series C round also included new investor Hennessey
Capital Management and existing backers Kleiner Perkins Caufield
& Byers, Claremont Creek Ventures and Google Ventures
participated, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  