-- EFG-Hermes Says QInvest Deal at Risk on Egypt Approval Delay
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2013-04-08T09:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/efg-hermes-says-qinvest-deal-at-risk-on-egypt-approval-delay-1-.html
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE (HRHO)  said an
agreement to create a joint venture with Qatar’s QInvest LLC is
at risk unless  Egypt ’s markets regulator approves the
transaction before the accord is set to expire next month.  The Cairo-based investment bank, whose co-chief executive
officers are standing trial, is awaiting the Egyptian Financial
Supervisory Authority after obtaining approval from regulators
in various countries, EFG-Hermes said in a statement to the
Egyptian Exchange yesterday. The deal would bring $300 million
of foreign direct investment to Egypt, according to the bank.  QInvest, a unit of  Qatar Islamic Bank (QIBK) , and EFG-Hermes plan
to create an investment bank with operations in the  Middle East ,
Africa and  Turkey , as well as southern and southeastern  Asia .
The transaction would include EFG Hermes’ main investment
banking, asset management and brokerage businesses, and exclude
its private equity business and Credit Libanais SAL unit.  If EFG-Hermes doesn’t get the authority’s approval “in the
coming days, the implementation of the partnership agreement
will become difficult,” the company said. The accord was signed
May 3 and is valid for 12 months, it said.  “This clarifies that the real problem is driven by Egypt
at this stage,” said Hany Genena, head of research at Cairo-
based Pharos Securities Brokerage. “It has to do with the
problem of the two CEOs, so we’ll have to wait and see what
happens.”  CEOs on Trial  Co-CEOs, Yasser Al Mallawany and Hassan Heikal, are
defendants alongside former Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak ’s
two sons, Alaa and Gamal, and five others on charges of illicit
gains related to the 2007 sale of  El Watany Bank of Egypt . The
trial began in July 2012. EFG-Hermes’ investor-relations
manager, Hanzada Nessim, said last month there is “no
relation” between the trial and delays to the sale.  EFG-Hermes’  stock  declined 0.1 percent to 9.7 pounds at
11:17 a.m. in Cairo. They gained 3.3 percent yesterday.  “Investors are betting on an announcement by EFSA before
the offer expires,” said Wafik Dawood, director of
institutional sales at Cairo-based Mega Investments Securities.
“EFSA’s approval will pave the way for a 4 pound dividend,
which is more than 40 percent at current share price.”  Ashraf El Sharkawy, chairman of the Egyptian Financial
Supervisory Authority, couldn’t be reached for comment. A
spokesman for QInvest in Doha, who asked not to be named under
corporate policy, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  or
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ; 