-- Melbourne Office Vacancies to Surge on Glut, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-04-08T03:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/melbourne-office-vacancies-to-surge-on-glut-morgan-stanley-says.html
Melbourne ’s office vacancy rate will
jump to about 11 percent this year from about 8 percent now, as
supply outpaces demand, Morgan Stanley said.  About 327,000 square meters (3.5 million square feet) of
space is expected to come on the market between now and 2015 in
 Australia ’s second-biggest city, analysts led by Lou Pirenc
wrote in an e-mailed report today. Major projects under
construction include 107,500 square meters in the  North  and
 South Tower s on Bourke Street in the Docklands, an extension of
Melbourne’s traditional business district; and 30,000 square
meters in an office and retail building in the city’s central
business district, he said.  “A lot of this supply is in fact pre-committed,” Pirenc
wrote. “However, without a pick up in office demand, this new
supply is likely to result in a higher level of backfill and
sublease space re-entering the market.”  Victoria state, of which Melbourne is the capital, had a
seasonally adjusted unemployment rate of 5.5 percent in
February, compared with 5.2 percent in New South Wales state and
4.5 percent in  Western Australia , and a national rate of 5.4
percent, government figures show. Tenants in Melbourne’s central
business district, mainly in the finance industry and
government, are consolidating space and relocating to higher-
quality buildings in the Docklands, broker CBRE Group Inc. said
in a  report  last month.  “This is an environment where tenants typically have the
upper hand in rental negotiations,” Morgan Stanley’s Pirenc
said in his report. “With weaker relative demand, and a
relatively large development pipeline, we expect landlords will
favor filling space and offering incentives, rather than waiting
for a better deal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  