-- Telefonica Czech Stock Hurt by Developments in Auction, CFO Says
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-04-08T11:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/telefonica-czech-stock-hurt-by-developments-in-auction-cfo-says.html
Telefonica Czech Republic AS shares
are being hurt by a failed license auction and speculation of
another round of asset sales by its Spanish parent, Chief
Financial Officer David Melcon said.  The Czech telecoms regulator canceled a radio-frequency
auction last month creating uncertainty over the process for
awarding pushing the stock  down 23.7 percent  since Nov. 12. The
shares traded at 283 koruna as of 1:52 p.m. The consensus of 20
analysts recommendation tracked by Bloomberg for the price in 12
months is 329.77 koruna.  “We monitor very closely the value of our shares and they
clearly have been impacted mainly by the auction, rumors of a
possible sale and regional sentiment -- all of which are beyond
our control,” Melcon said in an April 5 interview in Prague.  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Europe ’s most-indebted telephone company,
may sell assets to slash net debt by more than 4 billion euros
($5.2 billion) this year, according to people with knowledge of
the matter. The Irish and Czech divisions are high on a list of
potential businesses for sale, the people, asking not to be
identified because the deliberations are confidential, said last
week. Melcon declined to comment on the reports.  Higher Charges  The Czech Telecommunications Office canceled the sale of
800 MHz, 1,800 MHz and 2,600 MHz spectra over concerns that bids
totaling more than 20 billion koruna ($1 billion) would boost
costs for customers through higher charges for Internet
services. While governments across the region are cutting
spending to meet austerity needs, they are also concerned a
simultaneous rising cost of living is creating voter anger.  The decision to cancel the auction “was good” since the
process was taking too long, Melcon said, adding “there’s no
formula, but in other countries it lasted a few weeks.”  The Czech regulator immediately started drafting new rules
to replay the auction this year. Melcon wouldn’t comment on
Telefonica’s bid or the possible timing of the new auction.  “There is still a lot uncertainty about how the new
auction rules will look and whether they won’t favor new
entrants to the market,” said Cyrrus AS analyst Tomas Mencik,
who has a hold recommendation on the shares.  Existing operators T-Mobile Czech Republic AS, Telefonica
and Vodafone Czech Republic bid for the licenses along with PPF
Mobile Services AS, a newcomer to the market.  The mobile data market is growing fast as traffic, 40 times
less than in fixed data, catches up, Melcon said. Smart- phone
penetration among Czech Telefonica customers was 27 percent at
the end of December and 71 percent of handsets sold in the
stores were smart phones, Telefonica said Feb. 27.  ‘Limited’ Erosion  The company’s margin for operating income before
depreciation and amortization, or Oibda, is still very
“healthy” with only “limited” erosion forecast for this year
from 41.4 percent in 2012, Melcon said.  Fourth-quarter Oibda fell 13 percent to 5.09 billion koruna
as revenue declined 5 percent to 12.8 billion koruna, according
to Telefonica CR results, published Feb. 27.  “I think we have a mixed story,” Melcon said. “If you
look at our top line, some revenues are shrinking, that’s the
reality. But we have others that are growing, like Slovakia,
information and communication services for companies and mobile
data.”  Telefonica CR has started the deployment of Long Term
Evolution, or LTE, network on its existing 1,800 MHz spectrum to
provide fast mobile data in Prague and Brno. Capital expenditure
will be less than  6 billion koruna this year, excluding the
potential costs of the spectrum auction, he said.  Markets Open  The company will use leverage for any winning bid in the
new spectrum auction, though Melcon wouldn’t specify whether
Telefonica would issue bonds or use loans.  “We didn’t approach the markets during the auction as it
was still running and we didn’t know what the outcome would
be,” he said. “When we refinanced our existing loan in summer,
the process was very flexible and there are a lot of parties
willing to cooperate with Telefonica.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  