-- Emerging-Market Stocks Drop to Four-Month Low on Bird Flu
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-08T22:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/emerging-stocks-fall-to-4-month-low-on-bird-flu-korean-tension.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped to
the lowest level since November, led by airlines, on concern
that a bird flu outbreak in China may deter people from
traveling as tensions in the Korean peninsula escalate.  EVA Airways Corp. (2618)  and  China Airlines Ltd. (2610)  paced declines
among Taiwanese carriers. Central European Distribution Corp.,
Poland’s second-biggest vodka producer, plunged to a record low
after filing for U.S. bankruptcy protection. Brazil’s Bovespa
 index (MEXBOL)  rose for a second straight trading day as  Eike Batista ’s
mining unit MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA surged the most in a
month. The won weakened to an eight-month low.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slid 0.1 percent to
1,006.78 in New York, dropping a sixth day. China reported three
more cases of the deadly H7N9 strain, bringing the total number
of infections to 21. The virus has killed six people. South
Korean Chief of National Security Kim Jang Soo said yesterday
that North Korea may stage a provocation including a ballistic
missile test on or around April 10.  “Tensions have ratcheted up more than people expected,”
Peter Jankovskis, the chief investment officer at Lisle,
Illinois-based Oakbrook Investments LLC, said in a phone
interview. His firm oversees $3.3 billion. China’s bird flu also
has an impact on markets, he said. “People will be more
reluctant to trade, to travel.”  Technology and commodity shares had the biggest losses
among 10 groups in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  today. The
broader index has lost 4.6 percent this year, compared with a
6.6 percent gain in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed-country
stocks. The developing-nations measure trades at 10.5 times
 estimated  12-month earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s
multiple of 13.8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund gained 0.2 percent to $41.68. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
dropped 2.1 percent to 18.75.  The Bank of New York Mellon Korea ADR  index , which tracks
the American depositary receipts of South Korean companies,
dropped 0.5 percent in New York to the lowest level since Sept.
6. LG Display Co. dropped 1.1 percent to $13.33.  Brazilian Shares  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  advanced 0.1 percent, erasing an earlier
decline of as much as 1.3 percent. MMX jumped 7.3 percent. The
Mexican IPC Index advanced 0.4 percent, snapping three days of
losses as homebuilder Desarrolladora Homex SAB gained 3.9
percent, the biggest jump in a month.  Russian shares erased earlier gains as Federal Grid Co. and
OAO MRSK Holding, the nation’s largest power grid companies,
tumbled on concern minority shareholders won’t be able to
benefit from their merger. The Micex Index dropped 0.6 percent
to the lowest level since November.  Poland’s WIG20 Index lost 0.1 percent.  CEDC (CEDC)  plunged 41
percent in New York to the lowest level since its listing in
1998. The Warsaw-based company sent a bankruptcy petition with a
pre-approved restructuring plan aimed at cutting $665.2 million
in liabilities, it said in a statement yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.6 percent to the lowest
level since Dec. 27. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index was
little changed. Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  retreated 2.4 percent as
EVA Airways and China Airlines slumped more than 6 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries dropped six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 291 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  