-- EPA Shouldn’t Consider Blend Wall in Ethanol Decision, RFA Says
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-04-08T21:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/epa-shouldn-t-consider-blend-wall-in-ethanol-decision-rfa-says.html
The Environmental Protection Agency,
which is preparing to set mandates for 2013 ethanol use,
shouldn’t consider opposition to gasoline blends with more than
10 percent of ethanol when establishing the targets, the
 Renewable Fuels Association  said.  The EPA doesn’t have the authority to adjust the mandates
on the basis of falling gasoline demand, which refineries say is
making it difficult to meet current requirements, the
Washington-based trade group said in an e-mailed statement.  Ethanol and oil interests are arguing about the impact that
the 2007 Renewable Fuels Standard, which requires refiners to
use 13.8 billion gallons of ethanol this year and 15 billion by
2015, is having on retail gasoline prices. Ethanol is typically
combined with gasoline in a formula of up to 10 percent, which
is referred to as the blend wall.  The EPA in 2011 granted a request from ethanol producers to
raise the allowable limit of ethanol in gasoline to 15 percent
for vehicles made for the 2001 model year and later.  “Viable options exist for breaking through the E-10 blend
wall and meeting RFS requirements with physical volumes,” the
Renewable Fuels Association said today. “E-15 and E-85 blends
are legally approved and offer a workable pathway for meeting
increased RFS volumetric requirements.”  Refiners haven’t adopted the higher blends of the fuel,
citing possible harm to engine components, the RFA said.  American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers, which
represents  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , said in separate
comments to the EPA that the government should suspend the
requirements for 2013 and next year and “at a minimum” reduce
the mandate to a maximum of 10 percent of gasoline demand.  ’Failed Policy’  “What is needed today is a rational and objective approach
to deal with the consequences of the RFS, instead of the biased
decisions that have marked this failed policy since its
inception,”  Charles Drevna , president of the AFPM, said in a
statement today.  Gasoline consumption  will be about 133.5 billion gallons
this year and next, the Energy Information Administration, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm, said in its March 12 Short-
Term Energy Outlook.  Compliance with the program is tracked by Renewable
Identification Numbers, or RINs, certificates that are assigned
to each gallon of biofuel and that are submitted to the EPA to
show compliance.  Refiners can keep the RIN or trade it. Prices for the
certificates reached records on March 8, data compiled by
Bloomberg show, prompting congressional calls for inquiries into
their volatility and the effects on gasoline prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  