-- Merck Starts Fresh Trial on Fosamax Broken-Leg Claims
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-04-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/merck-starts-fresh-trial-on-fosamax-broken-leg-claims.html
Merck & Co. (MRK)  is fighting a woman’s
claim that its osteoporosis drug Fosamax weakened her femur,
causing her leg to break when she fell in her driveway, less
than a month after the first such trial ended prematurely.  A three-week  jury trial  starting today before U.S. District
Judge Joel Pisano in Trenton, New Jersey, will involve medical
experts on both sides of the dispute over the cause of
Bernadette Glynn’s injury in April 2009. Merck claimed that
Glynn, 58, tripped over a chainsaw in her garage and that the
fracture is typical of women with osteoporosis.  It’s the second thighbone-fracture case against  Whitehouse
Station , New Jersey-based Merck to reach a jury. The earlier
trial, in state court in  Atlantic City ,  New Jersey , was called
off after plaintiff Christina Su suffered a “sudden illness”
that was unrelated to her use of Fosamax, Merck said in a March
18 statement on its website.  Merck, the second-biggest U.S. drugmaker, is accused in
more than 3,300 lawsuits of ignoring signs that extended use of
bisphosphonates such as Fosamax caused femurs to deteriorate in
some patients. The company has said it faces another 1,230 cases
alleging Fosamax caused similar fractures in jaws. Glynn’s case
could be a bellwether, revealing litigation strategy and
potential damages awards.  A jury will be selected today and opening statements by the
parties are scheduled to begin tomorrow.  Claims Rejected  In a statement before the trial, Merck rejected claims that
it didn’t properly study Fosamax before releasing it to the
public.  “Unfortunately, the plaintiff had medical conditions and
risk factors that cause people to have fractures,” Chilton Varner, a lawyer for Merck at King & Spalding LLP, said in the
e-mailed statement. “The evidence will show that the plaintiff
was at risk of sustaining a fragility fracture and that Fosamax
significantly reduced, but could not eliminate that risk.”  About two months ago, Merck said it expected  profit  to
decline this year because of generic competition to its top-
selling  Singulair  and research setbacks that slowed efforts to
get new drugs to market.  Fosamax, approved for sale in the U.S. in 1995, generated
 sales  of as much $3 billion a year until patent protection
lapsed in 2008. The drug is often prescribed for osteoporosis in
women and for cancer sufferers worried about fractures from
weakened bones.  Felt ‘Pinch’  Glynn said in her complaint that on April 17, 2009, she
felt a “pinch” in her right leg when she bent over to pick
something up in her driveway.  “She then attempted to take a step, but fell and sustained
a fracture on her right femur,” according to the complaint. Her
leg was ultimately repaired with a rod and screws, it said.  Glynn had taken the drug over a period of seven years,
starting in 2002, and it was prescribed by four doctors and one
nurse, Merck said in court papers.  Glynn and her husband, Richard Glynn, residents of Cohoes,
 New York , sued Merck in September 2011, alleging Fosamax causes
“serious and sometimes fatal injuries.” While the drug
increases bone-mass density, the effect doesn’t always
correspond to a reduction in fracture risk, they said in the
complaint. The compound can cause bones to become “highly
mineralized, homogeneous, brittle,” they said.  Glynn’s lawyer, Edward Braniff, didn’t return a call for
comment on the trial.  Thighbone Breaks  Researchers said in 2010 that Fosamax and competing bone-
loss drugs may be linked to increased risks of thighbone
fractures. As many as 94 percent of 310 patients who had an
uncommon type of fracture to the thigh bone were also taking a
bisphosphonate-based drug, according a September 2010 report in
the Journal of Bone and Mineral Research. Most had taken the
medicine for more than five years, according to the report.  The case may hinge on whether the jury accepts Glynn’s
injury was a so-called atypical femur fracture -- the type
discovered to be a risk of Fosamax only after it was approved by
regulators and sold to the public.  Merck has argued that Glynn’s doctors would have prescribed
the drug even if they had been aware of the risk.  “Ms. Glynn’s Fosamax prescribers testified that today --
several years after the possible risk of femur fracture was
added to the Fosamax label -- they still believe their decision
to treat Ms. Glynn with Fosamax was appropriate,” Merck said in
a motion in January to dismiss the claims. The request was
partially denied by Pisano at a hearing on April 2.  The drugmaker claims there’s no evidence that a different
warning on the label would have prevented her doctors’ decision
to prescribe Fosamax to treat Glynn’s osteoporosis.  FDA Information  “There is not a scintilla of evidence that Merck knowingly
withheld from FDA or misrepresented to FDA any information
related to the risk of femur fracture,” Merck said in the
filing.  In preparation for the trial, Pisano ruled on March 8 that
Merck couldn’t block testimony or evidence about the short-term
effectiveness of Fosamax. He granted the drugmaker’s bid to
block evidence about e-mails containing opinions of non-Merck
employees regarding the drug’s effectiveness, calling them
“inadmissible hearsay.”  In the same ruling, Pisano said Glynn could only use so-
called adverse event reports -- formal descriptions of similar
injuries suffered by other people -- to show whether Merck had
been properly notified of a possible connection between Fosamax
and that injury.  Diagnoses ‘Skyrocket’  Fosamax and other osteoporosis drugs have become widely
over-prescribed and diagnoses of the ailment have
“skyrocketed” since the assessment method shifted from the use
of clinical criteria such as prior bone fracture to testing
bone-mass density instead, according to the complaint. The  World
Health Organization  is probing the “arbitrary” diagnosis,
Glynn’s lawyers said in the complaint.  Merck was able to inflate the effectiveness of Fosamax by
calculating its reduction of so-called relative risk instead of
“absolute risk.”  “Billions of dollars are being spent on a drug that has
questionable utility for the ultimate goal of fracture
reduction,” Glynn said in the complaint.  In the Su case, Christy Jones, a lawyer for Merck, told
jurors that the woman had no evidence to support claims the
drugmaker turned a blind eye to Fosamax’s safety problems.  The company has won five of the seven cases decided by
juries on the jaw claims. In February, a federal jury in New
York ordered Merck to  pay  $285,000 to a woman who blamed the
drug for her jawbone injuries.  The cases are Glynn v. Merck & Co., 3:11-cv-05304, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton); and Su v.
Merck & Co., ATL-L-0789-11-MT, Superior Court of New Jersey
(Atlantic City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  