-- Merger Loans Surge in Asia as Bank Yield-Race Encourages Buyouts
-- B y   F o s t e r   W o n g
-- 2013-04-08T01:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/merger-loans-surge-in-asia-as-bank-yield-race-encourages-buyouts.html
Acquisition lending in  Asia  tripled
in the first quarter as banks chased higher-yielding assets to
offset a slump in other syndicated financing, prompting
borrowing costs to fall.  Loans for acquisitions in the Asia-Pacific region outside
of  Japan  jumped to $11.4 billion in the first three months of
2013 from $3.8 billion a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Interest margins in the region for U.S.
dollar-denominated M&A loans slid to 343.8 basis points from
382.5 basis points. That still exceeds the 263 basis points on
lending for general corporate purposes, the data show.  Fees that can be at least 50 percent higher are also
prompting Asian lenders to offer more acquisition financing
after they had their slowest start to the year for general
syndicated lending since 2009. Companies in  China  are already
the world’s second-most acquisitive this year after the U.S,
according to Bloomberg data, and a surfeit of funds may boost
activity further, bankers say.  “The momentum in acquisition financing that we saw in the
first quarter will continue into the second quarter, both in
terms of sponsor-led leveraged buyouts as well as corporate-to-
corporate transactions,” said Siong Ooi, head of Asia-Pacific
leveraged finance and loans at Bank of America Corp. “The
liquidity in the bank market has been a lot stronger this year
and gives corporates looking to make larger acquisitions the
confidence that they can get the requisite amount of debt
financing at a competitive cost.”  Global M&A volumes rose 7.6 percent to $519.1 billion in
the first quarter from $482.3 billion in the same period of
2012, according to Bloomberg data. Although they fell by 8.7
percent to $2.21 trillion last year compared with 2011, activity
in China jumped 9.5 percent to $125.9 billion, Bloomberg data
show.  Asia Billions  Banks are arranging loans totaling at least $5 billion for
acquisitions in the Asia-Pacific region, according to Bloomberg
data. They include a $2 billion package for  CVC Capital
Partners ’ bid for KFC Holdings ( Malaysia ) Bhd. and parent QSR
Brands Bhd.; a A$775 million ($803.8 million) loan for TPG
Capital’s buyout of Inghams Enterprises Pty Ltd.; and an $830
million facility to back  Citic Telecom International Holdings
Ltd. (1883)  bid for most of Companhia de Telecomunicacoes de Macau.  Asian banks sitting on excess cash are seeking more
lucrative returns through acquisition financing as the cost of
global money stays at record lows, with lenders in regions
including China and  Australia  seeking “jumbo” syndication
deals, said David Irvine, a Hong Kong-based partner at
Linklaters LLP, which advised Citic Telecom’s deal.  “Banks are looking to secure yield where they can in the
currently low interest rate environment,” he said.  Carlyle Bid  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) , the subject of China’s biggest
leveraged buyout, last month attracted 18 lenders to a $1.1
billion loan backing the Carlyle Group-led bid. Twelve were
Asian banks, lending 76 percent of the total, three people
familiar with the matter said on March 26.  “For every European bank that pulled back last year, an
Asian bank stepped up to replace the lost liquidity,” said
 Stephen Williams , HSBC Holdings Plc’s head of debt capital
markets for Asia Pacific, in an interview. “There has been less
borrowing in the loan market because of the exceptionally low
rates in the  bond market  and because corporates are cash rich.”  Syndicated lending volumes fell 10.3 percent to $60.6
billion in the Asia-Pacific region outside Japan in the first
three months of 2013, the lowest first quarter since 2009, while
the number of deals slumped 25.6 percent to 212, Bloomberg data
showed. In contrast, sales of bonds in Asia excluding Japan
surged 12.7 percent to a record $204.7 billion in the same
period while the number of transactions rose 9.3 percent to
1,275.  Cnooc, Nexen  Hong Kong  syndicated deals surged more than four-fold to
$15.3 billion in the first quarter even as volumes in seven of
the Asia-Pacific region’s 11 markets declined, Bloomberg data
show. They were largely boosted by  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest
offshore oil and gas explorer, signing a $6 billion facility in
February with 20 banks for its acquisition of Canada’s  Nexen
Inc. (NXY)   Companies in China, where state-owned enterprises sought
backing for natural resources and energy-related assets last
year, will need further funds for local and off-shore purchases,
according to Linklaters’ Irvine. They have already signed $31.4
billion worth of M&A deals this year, Bloomberg data show.  “We are beginning to see Chinese private enterprises also
going out to buy assets outside of China,” said  Irvine . “This
trend is going to continue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Foster Wong in Hong Kong at 
 fwong94@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  