-- Merz Declines to Raise Bid for Obagi, Yielding to Valeant
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2013-04-08T20:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/merz-declines-to-raise-bid-for-obagi-yielding-to-valeant.html
Merz Pharma GmbH  walked away from an
effort to buy  Obagi Medical Products Inc. (OMPI) , saying it didn’t want
to top  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX) ’s $418 million
offer.  Merz, a closely held German drugmaker, will look for other
acquisition opportunities, the Frankfurt-based company said in a
statement today. Obagi, a Long Beach, California-based maker of
prescription skin-care products, declined to below the Valeant
offer in U.S. trading, showing investors no longer expect a
higher bid.  “Obagi was an opportunity worth pursuing given its
complementary fit with Merz’s portfolio of injectables,” said
Merz Chief Executive Officer Philip Burchard in the statement.
“However, Merz is a disciplined buyer and at this level the
economics of such a transaction do not meet our requirements.”  Valeant announced March 20 an agreement to buy Obagi for
$19.75 a share in cash. Merz on April 2 made an unsolicited
offer of $22 a share. Obagi the next day accepted a sweetened
offer from Valeant of $24 a share, or about $418 million.  Obagi dropped 5.7 percent to $23.98 at 4 p.m. New York
time. The stock has risen 76 percent this year and closed on
April 4 at the highest price since the shares began trading in
2006. Valeant, based in  Montreal , rose less than 1 percent to
$72.12 in New York.  Obagi’s biggest product is Nu-Derm, a treatment to reduce
signs of aging on the skin. The therapy had about $62 million in
sales last year.  Voce Capital LLC, a hedge fund, last year began pushing for
a sale of the company.  For Related News and Information:
Obagi Bidding War Seen Pushing Premium as High as 99%: Real M&A  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  