-- Tesco U.S. Exit Could Cost $382 Million in Cash, Shore Estimates
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-04-08T10:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/tesco-u-s-exit-could-cost-382-million-in-cash-shore-estimates.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) ’s exit from its
unprofitable Fresh & Easy U.S. business may cost the U.K.’s
largest grocer about 250 million pounds ($382 million) in cash,
 Shore Capital (SGR)  estimates.  While Tesco would face a 1 billion-pound writedown on the
U.S., according to a Telegraph report,  the “greater area of
interest is the cash costs from exit, given most investors will
have already anticipated the paper adjustment to the asset
base,” Shore analyst Clive Black wrote in a note to investors.  Tesco Chief Executive Officer Philip Clarke is reviewing
all options for the U.S. stores and has said he will report on
the progress at the company’s results on April 17. While Aldi is
seen as one of the potential buyers, a closure of Fresh & Easy
and then a piece-by-piece sale of the assets remains the most
likely outcome, the Telegraph reported today, without saying
where it got the information.  Under Clarke, Tesco also paid 40 million pounds last year
to offload a 50 percent stake in its Japanese unit, after
deciding to refocus on its domestic business. Tesco’s market
share at home has been squeezed by discounters like Aldi and
more upmarket supermarkets like Waitrose and  J Sainsbury Plc. (SBRY)   Spokespeople at Tesco weren’t immediately available to
comment. Tesco  shares  rose as much as 4.05 pence, or 1.1
percent, to 373.10 pence as of 11:06  a.m. in London trading.
The stock is up 11 percent this year, giving the company a
market value of 30 billion pounds.  U.S. Investment  Tesco has invested about 1 billion pounds in the U.S. since
creating the business in 2007, targeting the West Coast with a
series of neighborhood urban stores in a market dominated by
big-box supermarkets. Fresh & Easy distinguishes itself with a
focus on budget-priced, healthy food and a predominance of own-
brand items. Getting the business to produce an acceptable
return would take too long, Clarke said in December.  Leaving the U.S. could cost Tescoanything between nothing
and 500 million pounds, Shore’s Black estimates, depending on
store disposals, the sale of the Riverside, California,
distribution center and three adjacent food factories, the
closure of the Los Angeles head office and associated redundancy
costs.  While the exit would represent a blow to Tesco’s
reputation, “the balance sheet can handle the hit,” Black
said, adding that Tesco’s earnings-per-share will benefit “from
the removal of the drag of U.S. losses.”  In April 2012, Clarke pushed back a goal for Fresh & Easy
to reach break-even until fiscal 2013 and vowed to slow store
openings and focus on getting each store to profitability. Fresh
& Easy’s same-store sales rose 1.8 percent in the third quarter,
worse than the prior quarter’s 6.9 percent growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  