-- EU’s Barnier Said to Urge U.S.’s Lew to Rethink Finance Laws
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-08T18:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/eu-s-barnier-said-to-urge-u-s-s-lew-to-rethink-finance-laws.html
Michel Barnier , the European Union
financial services chief, urged U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew to seek changes to draft rules on swaps and the treatment of
EU bank units, saying they may undermine efforts to clinch a
trade pact, said two people familiar with the talks.  Barnier told Lew that EU and U.S. moves to begin
negotiations on a free-trade deal made revising the measures
more urgent, according to the people who asked not to be cited
by name because the discussions are private. Lew and Barnier,
meeting in Brussels today, agreed to further discussions on the
measures, the people said.  The two agreed to “stay in close and regular contact and
strengthen the U.S.-EU financial market and regulatory dialog,”
according to a joint statement issued by their offices. Lew
raised concerns at the meeting that plans by some EU nations to
implement a common tax on financial transactions would lead to
charges being imposed on U.S.-based companies, the people said.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission is under
pressure from regulators in the EU and  Japan  to overhaul planned
rules for derivative trading on concerns that the measures may
leave companies outside the U.S. facing overlapping
requirements. Global regulators said last year that nations
should resolve the clash as it risks hampering efforts by
investors and clearinghouses to comply with international
standards.  Keep Working  Lew and Barnier agreed both sides would keep working to
ensure robust and convergent frameworks on derivatives and that
prudential frameworks ensure financial institutions hold
sufficient capital and are resolvable in an orderly manner,
according to a Treasury official, who also asked not to be
identified because the talks were private.  Barnier is also pushing back against proposals from the
U.S. Federal Reserve that foreign lenders organize their U.S.
units as subsidiaries and hold capital independently from their
parent firms to make it easier for U.S. regulators to seize
local assets in a crisis. The Fed is seeking views on the
measures, which Barnier has warned could drive up costs for EU
banks.  Lew met Barnier as part of a visit to  Europe  in which he
saw European Union officials in Brussels and will meet central
bankers in  Frankfurt  before heading to Berlin and Paris.  Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman for Barnier, declined to
comment on the details of today’s meeting beyond today’s
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  