-- European Banks to See Consolidation, Barclays Study Says
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-04-08T11:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/european-banks-to-see-consolidation-barclays-study-says.html
The European banking industry may
have to consolidate further if revenues don’t recover and firms
don’t achieve their cost-savings targets, according to a
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  research note.  The German and Italian banking industry looks “ripe for
combination” because it’s “highly fragmented,” Barclays
analysts Simon Samuels and  Mike Harrison  wrote to clients today.
They said large, complex and hostile transactions are unlikely.  “Post crisis, there has been some increase in market
consolidation, but many European banking markets remain
fragmented,” London-based Barclays said. “Faced with poor
revenue prospects, industries often explore M&A as the mechanism
to reduce cost bases, and in theory at least banks are no
different.”  Banks in the region have been cutting costs by eliminating
staff and selling assets to meet tougher capital rules under
Basel III international standards amid slower revenue due to the
sovereign debt crisis.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  last month sold
a stake in asset manager St. James’s Place Plc, booking a 400
million-pound ($612 million) gain, while  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  has said it will sell its U.S. operation and shrink
its securities unit to bolster capital.  “Five years on from the financial crisis, it is clear that
banks are increasingly recognizing that any return to meaningful
revenue growth is becoming unlikely,” the analysts said.  Samuels and Harrison said HSBC Holdings Plc,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are in the best position to deliver on “very
ambitious” cost-saving targets. Financial-services firms in
Western Europe have announced more than 342,000 job cuts since
the start of 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  