-- Ex-Abaxis Employee Will Pay $145,000 in SEC Insider Case
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-04-09T01:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/ex-abaxis-employee-will-pay-145-000-in-sec-expert-network-case.html
A former  Abaxis Inc. (ABAX)  employee agreed
to pay about $145,000 to settle U.S. regulatory claims that she
passed confidential data to her brother, who used the
information to make illegal trades in the company’s stock.  ThanhHa Bao, 57, who worked in the Union City, California-
based medical device manufacturer’s finance department, also
agreed to be barred from serving as an officer or director of a
public company for five years, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said today in a statement.  Bao’s brother, Tai Nguyen, 50, an expert networking
consultant, was sentenced last month to serve a year and day in
prison by a federal court judge in New York after pleading
guilty to leaking inside information to Noah Freeman, a former
hedge-fund manager at Sonar Capital Management and SAC Capital
Adviors LP. Nguyen also admitted that he passed illegal tips to
Barai Capital Management LP founder Samir Barai and others from
2006 to mid-2009.  “When corporate insiders leak confidential information to
a select few, the integrity of our markets is undermined,”
Sanjay Wadhwa, senior associate director of the SEC’s regional
office in New York, said in a statement. “Abaxis entrusted
ThanhHa Bao with market-moving information, and she violated
that trust to financially benefit her family.”  Bao’s Attorney  Melinda Sarafa, Bao’s attorney, declined to comment on the
settlement.  Both Freeman and Barai have pleaded guilty to criminal
insider trading charges and are cooperating with the U.S.
government’s continuing investigation.  Bao wasn’t charged by prosecutors in the office of
 Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara, which is handling the
criminal cases.  Bao regularly tipped nonpublic information to Tai Nguyen,
whose trading in advance of Abaxis’ quarterly earnings generated
about $145,000 in illegal profits, the SEC said.  Nguyen, who pleaded guilty to a count of conspiracy to
commit securities fraud and wire fraud in the related criminal
case, said he passed the information to clients of his equity
research firm Insight Research, including hedge fund managers.
Barai and Freeman and their funds earned about $6.2 million as a
result of the insider-trading scheme, prosecutors said.  Sister Fired  At his sentencing, Nguyen said his crimes destroyed his
relationship with his siblings and that his sister was fired
from her job.  He said he decided to use his sister for the illegal tips
because he had lost an earlier job and was desperate to continue
having Freeman and Barai as his customers.  “When I lost my job, my best customers were Sam and
Noah,” Nguyen said. “They were always asking me for the best
information. I was wrong. Sam and Noah made money on my
recommendations in the past. But they were not satisfied. They
wanted an edge.”  Nguyen was ordered to surrender to U.S. prison officials by
May 1.  The SEC settlement with Bao stems from an investigation
into expert networks that has led to insider-trading cases
against 40 entities or individuals who have reaped more than
$430 million in alleged insider trading gains, the agency said.  The SEC said that Nguyen obtained information about
Abaxis’s quarterly earnings from Bao, of Union City,  California 
from 2006 to 2009. He traded in his own account, reaping about
$145,000, the SEC said. Nguyen agreed to forfeit $400,000 to the
U.S. as part of his sentence.  The SEC’s claims against Nguyen are pending. His lawyer,
David Wikstrom, told U.S. District Judge George Daniels in a
letter in February that the case was in settlement talks “which
cannot be concluded until after imposition of sentence” in the
criminal case.  The SEC case is SEC v. Tai Nguyen and ThanhHa Bao, 12-
cv-05009, and the criminal case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 12-cr-00495,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  