-- Mexico to Suspend Dollar Auctions as Confidence in Peso Rises
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n ,   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-04-08T23:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/mexico-to-suspend-dollar-auctions-as-confidence-in-peso-rises.html
Mexico  ended a daily dollar auction
designed to shore up the peso, a sign policy makers are no
longer concerned about declines in the currency after it posted
the biggest rally among major currencies this year.  The peso weakened after the  currency commission , which
includes officials from the  Finance Ministry  and central bank,
said  today  that the central bank would no longer offer $400
million of its reserves daily starting tomorrow. The measure was
put in place in November 2011 to curb volatility as the peso
dropped 11.4 percent that year.  Mexico’s free-floating peso has strengthened as investors
search for higher yields amid near-zero  interest rates  in the
U.S. and  Japan , and as speculation grows President Enrique Pena Nieto will push through reforms to boost economic expansion. The
currency has jumped 15 percent, the most among major emerging-
markets tracked by Bloomberg, since the commission said Nov. 29,
2011, it would auction dollars and suspend the sale of dollar
options that had been used to curb gains by the peso.  The currency commission is “signaling they are less
concerned with depreciation now,”  Eduardo Suarez , a Latin
America currency strategist at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in Toronto,
wrote in an e-mail. “At some point they will re-introduce the
options, but I don’t think the time is now.”  The currency weakened 0.2 percent to 12.1966 per dollar
today after dropping as much as 0.3 percent following the
announcement. The peso’s 5.4 percent gain against the dollar
this year is the best performance among the 16-most traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Not Needed Anymore’  While the central bank offered dollars daily since November
2011 at a peso exchange rate at least 2 percent weaker than the
previous day’s level, traders only bought dollars on three days,
according to central bank data.  “Conditions in the international and national financial
markets indicate that  exchange-rate  volatility has declined,”
the currency commission said in today’s statement. “The
conditions that motivated the establishment of the daily dollar
sales of  Banco de Mexico  have dissipated.”  Central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said Apr. 5 that the
peso’s recent appreciation is a reflection of the nation’s
economic strength, while adding it’s still weaker than it had
been before the 2008-09 global financial crisis.  Finance Minister Luis Videgaray said March 21 that the
government will allow the peso to float freely. Any currency
commission intervention would occur “with previously-known
rules that have the objective of moderating abrupt variations
from one day to the next.”  The yield on Mexico’s peso-denominated bond due in 2024
tumbled eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to a
record-low 4.81 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The currency commission decision is “a natural step,”
Roberto Torres, the head of peso trading at BNP Paribas SA, said
by phone from  New York . “That auction is not needed anymore.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  