-- Mexico’s Pena Nieto Backs Japan’s Entry to TPP Trade Talks
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-04-08T11:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/mexico-s-pena-nieto-backs-japan-s-entry-to-tpp-trade-talks.html
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto
said his government will back Japan’s application to join talks
on a U.S.-backed regional trade accord that would lower tariffs
in countries that account for 40 percent of global trade.  “I received support from the president for Japan’s
participation,” Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said at a press
conference with Pena Nieto today in Tokyo. The two leaders
signed an agreement to boost cooperation on energy and policy in
central and South America.  Abe last month said the world’s third-largest economy will
seek to become the 12th member of the Trans-Pacific Partnership,
a step that requires the consent of all existing members, which
include Mexico. At the same time, he vowed to protect an
agriculture industry that puts a 778 percent tariff on rice and
has traditionally backed his Liberal Democratic Party.  Mexican support highlights Japan’s position as its largest
foreign investor, having poured $2.4 billion into the North
American country in the first half of 2012.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  is
the biggest automaker in Mexico, and  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  and Honda
Motor Co. are boosting production there.  Pena Nieto told Kyodo News in a written interview before
his arrival that Japan should fall in line with the goal of TPP
participants for a “high level” of trade liberalization. Japan
also imposes tariffs of 328 percent on sugar and 218 percent on
powdered milk.  U.S. President  Barack Obama , who is aiming for an accord
that also strengthens patent protection and greater access to
government contracts, is pushing Japan to ease barriers for
American automakers.  Joining the trade block would boost Japan’s economy by 3.2
trillion yen ($32.5 billion) while lowering agricultural and
marine products by 3 trillion yen, according to government
estimates.  Japan already has a bilateral trade agreement with Mexico.
The other existing members of the TPP talks are the U.S., New
Zealand, Australia, Canada, Singapore, Malaysia, Brunei, Peru,
Chile and Vietnam.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  