-- Texting While Flying Linked to Commercial Crash in First
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-04-09T16:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/texting-while-flying-linked-to-commercial-crash-in-u-s-first.html
Texting by a pilot before and during
a 2011 medical-helicopter flight in Missouri contributed to its
crash, the first time such distractions have been implicated in
a fatal commercial-aviation accident, the U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board found.  The distraction from texting helped lead the pilot to take
off without enough fuel, the investigative agency found at a
hearing today in  Washington . The helicopter’s engine stopped
after the pilot reported that he had more fuel than was aboard,
the NTSB found.  While calling texting a contributing factor rather than a
probable cause of the accident, the safety board issued a
warning today to pilots about the distractions posed by using
wireless devices during flight.  “We continue to see this in multiple modes of
transportation,” NTSB Chairman Debbie Hersman said. “How many
people have to die before we have to say something about it?”  The NTSB documented at least 240 texts sent and received by
the pilot during his shift the day of the accident, according to
records cited by Bill Bramble, an NTSB investigator. There were
20 such texts with a coworker before and during the accident,
the safety board found.  The  Air Methods Corp. (AIRM)  helicopter crashed in a field after
running out of fuel, according to preliminary NTSB reports. Use
of electronic devices by pilots during flight was prohibited by
company rules, according to the reports.  Hypothetical Reality  “This is a classic example of dividing attention in a way
that compromises safety,” said David Strayer, a psychology
professor at the University of Utah in  Salt Lake City  who has
studied how personal electronic devices cause distraction.  This is the first time the NTSB has uncovered evidence of
 texting  or mobile-phone use during a flight involved in a fatal
accident,  Kelly Nantel , an NTSB spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  In talks he gives on distracted driving, Strayer said he
often asks people what they would think about an airline pilot
phoning to make dinner reservations while approaching an
airport.  “Curiously enough, here is a situation in which that
ludicrous example occurred,” Strayer said. “Now you’ve got it
coming full circle.”  Four Texts  The company has put in place safety improvements since the
accident,  Mike Allen , president of domestic air medical services
at Air Methods, said in a statement. Among the changes is a
“zero tolerance policy” for mobile phone use during flight,
Allen said.  Air Methods, based in Englewood,  Colorado , says on its
website that it operates more than 300 air-medical bases in 48
states.  The crash on Aug. 26, 2011, in Mosby, Missouri, killed
Terry Tacoronte, a patient who was being flown from one hospital
to another. Pilot James Freudenbert, Randy Bever, a flight
nurse, and Chris Frakes, a paramedic, also died. The helicopter
was being operated under the name LifeNet.  Freudenbert received four texts, three of them from a
friend at work, and sent three others during the flight,
according to NTSB records. He was planning to have dinner with
the coworker, according to the records.  Another 13 texts were logged on his phone in the 71 minutes
before the flight, including two during a previous flight,
according to NTSB records.  Federal Regulations  Freudenbert, 34, who told the coworker he hadn’t slept well
the night before, failed to refuel the helicopter before flying
to a hospital in Bethany,  Missouri , to pick up Tacorente,
according to NTSB records.  He realized his mistake after landing at the hospital and
discussed where to get more fuel with a company dispatcher. He
was headed to Midwest National Air Center Airport in Mosby when
the helicopter went down.  Taking off on the final flight may have violated U.S.
Federal Aviation Administration regulations on how much fuel is
required, according to NTSB records. Helicopters carrying
passengers for hire must carry a 20-minute fuel reserve beyond
what they need to get to their destination, according to NTSB
records.  Freudenbert radioed a dispatcher after takeoff that he had
enough fuel to fly 45 minutes. The copter was aloft for 30
minutes before it ran out of fuel, according to NTSB records.  Warning Light  “I don’t want to run short and I don’t want to run into
that 20-minute reserve if I don’t have to,” he radioed a
company dispatcher shortly before taking off.  The Eurocopter AS350 helicopter was equipped with a warning
light to alert pilots when fuel ran low, according to the
records. Freudenbert never radioed that he was having an
emergency.  The preliminary NTSB reports didn’t say why the helicopter
struck the ground with such force. A powerless helicopter should
be able to land safely.  Air Methods prohibits its pilots from using mobile phones
during flights, according to NTSB’s preliminary reports.  While FAA regulations also prohibit extraneous conversation
and using personal electronic devices during “critical” phases
of commercial flights, it allows their use during level cruise
flight.  “It’s hard to know what to say,” Tom Judge, executive
director of LifeFlight of  Maine , the state’s emergency
helicopter service, and an advocate for enhanced safety, said in
an interview. “We’ve got to increase the level of
accountability.”  Distracted Driving  The crash is different from what is commonly seen in
distracted driving when a motorist takes his or her eyes off the
road and causes an accident,  John Lee , an engineering professor
at the  University of Wisconsin , said in an interview.  Instead, it’s similar to an office worker who gets a phone
call and forgets to send an e-mail, said Lee, who studies
people’s interaction with technology. Such distractions from so-
called multi tasking have been linked to medical errors, he
said.  The NTSB’s Hersman and Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood
have spoken out about increasing accidents in which mobile
phones and other electronic devices have led to lapses in
attention.  April is National Distracted Driving Awareness Month,
LaHood said in a  blog  post yesterday. Text messaging raises the
risk of a crash on the road by 23 times, he said.  Use of electronic devices in the cockpit has occasionally
come up in NTSB cases. The co-pilot on a  Pinnacle Airlines Corp. (PNCLQ) 
Colgan Air flight that crashed near Buffalo on Feb. 12, 2009,
killing 50 people, texted her husband while the plane was still
on the ground before departure.  There have been 13 helicopter air-medical flight accidents
since 2011, killing 12 people, according to NTSB records. Three
of the accidents were on Air Methods helicopters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  