-- Exxon Mobil Knew Gas Additive Was Risky, N.H. Jury Told
-- B y   S a r a h   E a r l e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-04-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/exxon-mobil-denies-mtbe-liability-to-new-hampshire-jury.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  should pay  New
Hampshire  $236 million in damages for contaminating its drinking
water with the gasoline additive MTBE, the state’s lawyers told
a jury that is set to begin deliberations today.  The oil company knew that MTBE was hazardous and would
pollute the groundwater and still approved its use for economic
reasons, lawyers for New Hampshire told the jury during closing
remarks yesterday in Concord.  “Exxon disregarded the recommendations of the very people
they tasked with studying MTBE,” Jessica Grant, a lawyer for
the state, said to the jury. “They had red flags going up left
and right and they never reconsidered using MTBE.”  Exxon Mobil, the last defendant in the state’s $816 million
lawsuit over the additive, has argued that it was complying with
a federal mandate to reduce air pollution when it added MTBE, or
methyl tertiary butyl ether, to gasoline and that the chemical
hadn’t harmed anyone in the state. The company also said the
state was aware of the chemical’s risks when it entered a
federal program designed to fight air pollution.  “They’re looking for a lot of money, and most importantly
they’re looking for a scapegoat,” James Quinn, a lawyer for
Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil , said in his closing statement
yesterday. “There’s nothing strange or nefarious or secretive
about it. Everybody was involved in these decisions.”  Grant later responded by saying, “Exxon Mobil is not a
scapegoat. This is a case about Exxon’s deliberate choices.”
The choice was made for economic reasons, she said.  Market Share  The state is seeking monetary damages from Exxon Mobil
based on its share of gasoline sales in New Hampshire from 1988
to 2005, which it estimated at about 30 percent.  New Hampshire’s lawyers told the jury yesterday it would
cost $305 million to sample wells, $218 million to clean up
high-risk sites, $142 million to pay for past cleanup costs and
$150 million to treat drinking water in contaminated wells, for
a total of about $816 million. Based on its market share, Exxon
Mobil should pay $236 million.  Exxon Mobil has challenged that market-share estimate and
said that using refinery data would have resulted in a figure as
low as 6.9 percent.  A 12-person jury will be asked to determine Exxon Mobil’s
market share for that period if it finds the company liable for
damages. The trial started Jan. 14.  Exxon Mobil is the sole defendant since Citgo Petroleum
Corp., the Houston-based unit of  Venezuela ’s state-owned  oil
company , agreed to a $16 million settlement in February.  Suits Consolidated  New Hampshire’s suit is one of scores of cases involving
MTBE filed since 2000 against refiners, fuel distributors and
chemical makers.  Other MTBE lawsuits have been consolidated in federal court
in  New York  for pretrial evidence-gathering and motions. In
2009, a federal jury ordered Exxon Mobil to pay  New York City 
$104.7 million after finding it liable for polluting wells in
the city. Exxon Mobil appealed and is awaiting a ruling from the
 U.S. Court of Appeals .  Maryland ’s court of appeals in February reversed two jury
verdicts against Exxon Mobil. The plaintiffs had won $1.65
billion in two cases that alleged financial harm and property
damage from an underground gasoline leak in 2006 that released
MTBE into the water. The appeals court said Exxon Mobil hadn’t
made fraudulent statements and the plaintiffs hadn’t shown they
were physically harmed by the leak.  Vehicle Emissions  Exxon Mobil has argued in New Hampshire that it was
complying with federal regulations, which pre-empt state law,
when it added MTBE to gasoline. The additive made gasoline burn
more thoroughly, thus reducing air pollution from vehicle
emissions, as required under the  1990 Clean Air Act.   New Hampshire witnesses testified that  oil companies  could
have used a chemical other than MTBE to increase the oxygen
content of the fuel, such as ethanol. They said that Exxon
Mobil’s own research showed MTBE would contaminate groundwater
and be costly and difficult to remove.  Exxon Mobil said in court that ethanol wasn’t a good choice
as an additive because at the time of the federal mandate it
wasn’t widely available. The company said it went ahead with
MTBE despite a staff memo warning of its hazards because the
benefits, in reducing air pollution, outweighed the risks.  Health Risks  Studies by the  American Petroleum Institute  were cited in
court showing that at mid-to-high levels of ingestion or
inhalation MTBE elevated the risk of brain tumors,  liver cancer ,
blood cancer and kidney cancer in mice and rats. Exxon Mobil
said there has been no evidence of MTBE-caused illness in
humans.  MTBE, which New Hampshire banned in January 2007, is highly
soluble in water and can be carried a great distance from the
source of leaks. It leaked from gas stations, vehicle junkyards,
underground  storage tanks  and pipe fittings, the state said.  The state estimated that 5,590 New Hampshire wells have
levels of MTBE determined to be unfit for drinking, which it
said is 13 parts of MTBE per billion parts of water.  In 2003, New Hampshire sued Exxon Mobil, Shell Oil Co.,
Sunoco Inc.,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Irving Oil Ltd., Vitol SA,  Hess
Corp. (HES)  and Citgo. All settled before the trial began except Exxon
Mobil and Citgo.  Exxon Mobil fell 41 cents to $88.60 yesterday in New York
Stock Exchange  composite trading . The stock has risen 2.4
percent this year.  The case is State of New Hampshire v. Hess Corp., 03-C-
0550, New Hampshire Superior Court, Merrimack County (Concord).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Earle in Concord, New Hampshire, at 
 sarahearle.nh@gmail.com ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  