-- Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg Seeks to Quash Subpoena
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-04-08T20:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/facebook-coo-sheryl-sandberg-seeks-to-quash-subpoena.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  Chief Operating
Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  will seek to block a subpoena requiring
her to give a deposition in a lawsuit alleging that seven
technology companies broke antitrust laws by agreeing not to
recruit from one another.  A hearing to resolve Sandberg’s opposition to the subpoena
will be conducted by U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul S. Grewal, U.S.
District Judge Lucy H. Koh in San Jose, California, said in
court today. On April 1 Koh said lawyers for employees suing the
companies could schedule a deposition of Sandberg around April
23.  “We’ve been working out cooperatively a schedule that
works for Ms. Sandberg and her counsel,” Kelly Dermody, a
lawyer for the employees, told Koh today. A lawyer for Sandberg
wasn’t in court today.  Defendants in the 2011 case include  Google Inc., (GOOG)  where
Sandberg was formerly an executive,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Intuit Inc. (INTU) ,
 Intel Corp. (INTC) , Adobe Systems Inc.,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Pixar
animation unit and Lucasfilm Ltd. Neither Facebook nor Sandberg,
a former Google executive, is a defendant. Plaintiffs’ lawyers
contend senior officers at the companies personally entered into
non-solicitation agreements to eliminate competition.  Lawyers for the employees said a March 22 deposition of
Google Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  and a March 25
deposition of Intuit executive Alex Lintner confirmed Sandberg’s
“relevance” to the anitrust case.  Status Report  “Google believes that Ms. Sandberg is unlikely to offer
any testimony that would be admissible or lead to admissible
evidence,” lawyers said in a March 29 court filing.  The companies last week won an order from Koh blocking
potentially thousands of employees, from engineers to sous
chefs, from proceeding as a group over claims that their incomes
were held down by the companies’ agreements not to recruit one
another’s workers.  The judge ruled that the plaintiffs can try again to
satisfy the requirements for class certification using evidence
they have recently obtained from more than 50 depositions of
high-ranking employees at the companies and more than 10,000
documents turned over by the defendants.  Sandberg was hired as COO of Facebook in 2008 and appointed
as the company’s first female director in June 2012. She is also
a director of Walt Disney.  Before joining Facebook, Sandberg was vice president of
global online sales and operations at Google.  Sarah Feinberg, a spokeswoman for Menlo Park, California-
based Facebook, has declined to comment on a Sandberg
deposition. Dermody declined after to court today to discuss the
Sandberg subpoena.  The San Jose case is In Re High-Tech Employee Antitrust
Litigation, 11-cv-02509, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of California (San Jose). A previous case is U.S. v. Adobe
Systems, 10-cv-01629, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  