-- First Solar to Face Wall Street Questions After Brown Leaves
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-04-08T20:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/first-solar-s-global-sales-head-brown-exits-before-analyst-day.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the biggest maker
of thin-film solar modules, will issue its forecast for 2013
sales to analysts and investors tomorrow, after announcing today
the departure of the executive who led its global effort to
build utility-scale power plants with its panels.  James Brown , executive vice president for global business
development, is leaving the company effective today, the Tempe,
Arizona-based company said in a regulatory filing.  First Solar has been completing power plants faster than
new contracts have come in, and it’s not clear whether the
company will be able to keep its project pipeline full, said Rob Stone, an analyst at Cowen & Co. in  Boston . Building and selling
large solar farms accounts for about two-thirds of sales.  “There’s enough in their pipeline to keep factories full
this year, but 2014 is a cause for concern,” said Stone, who
plans to attend the day-long meeting in  New York  tomorrow.
“They’re flying over the ocean and nobody seems to know whether
there’s enough fuel to get across.”  Chief Executive Officer Jim Hughes ended 2012 with
contracts that will provide $8 billion in expected revenue from
solar  power plants , down from $9.4 billion a year earlier, and
said on a Feb. 26 conference call that he expects to maintain
that figure this year.  Revenue last year rose 22 percent to $3.37 billion as it
sold some power plants and began work on new ones. Even with
those construction projects under way, sales may decline this
year to $3.13 billion, the average of 23 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Production Costs  Analysts are also looking for details on First Solar’s
expenses. The company reported production costs of 68 cents a
watt in the fourth quarter, down from 73 cents a year earlier.  “I would like to hear about how they reduce cost without
significant  capital expenditures  and why Chinese competition
won’t just decimate new markets,” said Ben Schuman, an analyst
with Pacific Crest Securities LLC in  Portland ,  Oregon .  First Solar rose 2.3 percent to $27.04 at the close in New
York. The shares have slumped 12 percent this year.  First Solar has about 1,800 megawatts of panel production
capacity, mainly in Malaysia and the U.S.  (The analyst meeting begins at 9 a.m. in New York and will
continue to 4 p.m. To listen to a webcast, go to the company’s
site at  http://investor.firstsolar.com/events.cfm )  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  