-- Fisker Struggles Mark Blow to Obama’s Electric-Car Goal
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-04-08T22:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/fisker-struggles-mark-blow-to-obama-s-electric-car-goal.html
The possible bankruptcy of Fisker
Automotive Inc., which last week fired three-quarters of its
workforce, is the latest blow to President  Barack Obama ’s goal
of having 1 million electric vehicles on U.S. roads by 2015.  Fisker’s downfall after receiving $193 million in U.S.
taxpayer money and producing 2,500 cars may complete the U.S.
government’s transformation from electric-vehicle promoter and
financier to debt collector, two years after it approved its
last loan.  Obama’s goal was “misguided” in the first place, putting
the administration’s eagerness to rush out loans and grants
while money was available ahead of due diligence, said Menahem Anderman, president of Total Battery Consulting Inc., in Oregon
House, California.  “The timing was based on the government’s spending
schedule rather than the schedule of the market and the
readiness of the technology,” Anderman said. “You had a very
complex vehicle to produce, a questionable market, in terms of
demand, with a team that hadn’t proven it could build it or sell
it.”  While Fisker’s luxury vehicles weren’t one of the largest
drivers of Obama’s goal, the company had planned to make its
second model more affordable to broaden the market. Its failure
to manufacture any cars in the U.S. after being promised more
than a half-billion dollars of taxpayer financing may add to
criticism of the loan program and plug-in vehicles.  With no batteries to make cars and many of the vehicles it
made earlier destroyed by  Hurricane Sandy , Fisker has tried to
find an investor and partner while hiring bankruptcy counsel and
negotiating with the Energy Department.  ‘Poster Child’  About 87,000 electric and plug-in hybrid cars have been
sold so far in the U.S., two years before the million-vehicle
benchmark was to have been reached, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “Politically it’s obviously not a good thing,” said
 Jeremy Anwyl , vice chairman of auto-researcher Edmunds.com.
“This is going to be another Solyndra, a poster child for
perhaps a lack of due diligence on the part of the federal
government when it’s investing funds.”  Aoife McCarthy, an Energy Department spokeswoman, declined
to say where the agency would rank among creditors should Fisker
file for bankruptcy.  A123, Fisker  “While this is a difficult time for Fisker’s employees,
the long-term future of America’s growing electric vehicle
industry is bright -- and the Energy Department’s portfolio of
investments in this industry is performing well,” she said in
an e-mail. “Sales of electric vehicles tripled last year, and
we just can’t afford to sit on the sidelines in the global race
to capture this rapidly expanding market.”  Obama in his first term made electric vehicles a
centerpiece of his clean-energy policy. He spent $5 billion on
loans, grants and purchaser tax credits to support them.  Fisker, based in Anaheim, California, was awarded $529
million in U.S. loans in 2009 on the promise of reviving auto
manufacturing in Vice President Joe Biden’s home state of
 Delaware . The Energy Department cut off the company’s access to
most of the money in 2011 for failing to meet production targets
for its first model, the $103,000 Karma.  As a startup with no manufacturing capacity, Fisker
depended on contractors including its battery supplier, the
former  A123 Systems Inc. (AONEQ) , which had received a $249.1 million
grant from the government. A123 produced defective battery packs
that caused a Karma to quit running during a road test by
Consumer Reports, leading to a recall that dried up A123’s cash,
forced it into bankruptcy and left Fisker without a supplier to
maintain production.  Romney’s ‘Losers’  As the four years of his first term progressed, Obama
stopped citing the 1 million vehicles goal and his Energy
Department stopped approving loans from the program that gave
money to Fisker. That program, intended to help develop more
fuel-efficient cars and trucks, was created by President George W. Bush, who focused on developing fuel-cell vehicles and
ethanol made from non-food crops.  Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  in last year’s
election campaign used the label “losers” in referring to
Fisker and  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , which had its first profitable
quarter in the three months ended March 31, according to Chief
Executive Officer Elon Musk.  While trying to salvage its loan to Fisker, the Energy
Department has pushed Tesla to speed up repayment of its $465
million loan, which the company has said it will do.  Battery Costs  One of the administration’s goals of its investments was to
bring down the cost of rechargeable car batteries.  Plug-in cars sell at a premium over conventionally powered
vehicles because of the cost of the batteries. That puts them
out of reach of many consumers even as the average transaction
price for light vehicles in the U.S. rose to $31,087 in March,
up 1.1 percent from a year earlier, according to TrueCar.com,
which analyzes automotive pricing.  Costs for some components have been reduced, with battery
cathodes an example, said Constantine Samaras, an engineer who
studies advanced battery technology for Santa Monica,
California-based RAND Corp., and serves on technology panels for
the National Academy of Sciences.  “The Department of Energy wants to cut the costs of
current batteries in half by 2015 and in half again by 2022,”
he said. “This will be very challenging without some
transformational manufacturing advances.”  Government Incentives  California ’s zero-emission vehicle program requires the six
largest automakers to sell about 60,000 rechargeable autos
through the 2014 model year. That figure rises starting in 2015,
expanding to as many as a combined 1.4 million electric, plug-in
and hydrogen fuel-cell vehicles a decade later in California and
states that have adopted the program.  Obama’s goal was more aggressive than even California’s,
Anderman said.  Without policy and financial incentives, automakers would
stick to less fuel-efficient and more profitable vehicles using
existing technology, said Dan Becker, director of the Safe
Climate Campaign, based in  Washington .  “I don’t think anybody has any reasonable expectation that
companies that bring us the Hummer and the Ford Expedition and
the Chrysler Dodge Ram are going to bring us clean vehicles
without any major government involvement,” he said.  “The reality is if we want to buy all of our electric cars
in the future from  China , then absolutely we should stop helping
the electric vehicle industry in the United States,” he said in
an interview. “But I think that would be a very stupid idea.”  Company Mistakes  The government should promote alternative-fuel vehicles
without propping up the companies manufacturing them, said
 Rebecca Lindland , an analyst with Rebel Three Media &
Consultants, based in Cos Cob,  Connecticut .  “It reminds me of the role of government in sports,” said
Lindland, who serves on an Energy Department committee preparing
a report on how to make it easier to deploy electric vehicles in
the U.S. “Often you will hear that the government will relax
taxation when it comes to stadiums, but they’re not providing
the payroll.”  The collapse of A123, now B456 Systems Inc., and Fisker’s
problems “bring out the huge challenges in this industry,” Dan Sperling, a member of California’s Air Resources Board and
director of the Institute of Transportation Studies at the
University of California, Davis, said in a telephone interview.  “The fact that some of these companies fail is because
companies make mistakes,” he said. “Fisker made mistakes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  