-- Forint Jumps, Yields Slide to 7-Year Low as Loan Meetings Start
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-04-08T10:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/forint-jumps-yields-slide-to-7-year-low-as-loan-meetings-start.html
The forint advanced to a one-month
high and yields on  Hungary ’s 10-year bonds hit a seven-year low
as the central bank started meetings with commercial lenders to
work out the details of a plan to boost loan growth.  Hungary’s currency extended last week’s gains, the biggest
in nine months, after Magyar Nemzeti Bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy announced plans to provide interest-free loans to help
expand credit to smaller companies. The program, whose details
will be worked out after talks with banks, allayed concern of
Hungary using more unconventional tools to revive economic
growth, according to analysts including Mariann Trippon at CIB
Bank Zrt., the Budapest-based unit of  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA. (ISP)   “Since the fears about extraordinary monetary easing
played a big role in the forint’s decline this year, the relief
may bring more gains in the coming days,” Levente Blaho and
Adam Keszeg, Budapest-based analysts at  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) , wrote in an e-mailed report today.  The forint gained 0.7 percent to 296.58 per euro by 12:06
p.m. in Budapest, paring losses so far in 2013 to 1.8 percent.
Yields on the government’s 10-year bonds fell 13 basis points,
or 0.13 percentage point, to 5.888 percent, the lowest since
Sept. 2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Central bankers today met with Sandor Csanyi, chief
executive officer of OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender,
and other commercial bankers in the first of a “regular”
series of consultations, the MNB said in a statement on its
website. The commercial bankers welcomed the plan, it said.  Julia Kiraly, a deputy president who opposed interest rate
cuts carried out in each of the past eight months, resigned
today. Kiraly, whose term in office was due to end in July,
cited Matolcsy’s overhaul of staffing at the bank and the way
Matolcsy conducts Monetary Council meetings for her decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  