-- Full Tilt Poker Founder Needs Transplant, to Plead Guilty
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-08T22:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/full-tilt-poker-founder-needs-transplant-to-plead-guilty.html
Full Tilt Poker founder Raymond
Bitar, accused of using funds from online players to finance
company operations and pay its owners, will plead guilty under
an agreement that will let him avoid prison and obtain a needed
heart transplant, his lawyer told a judge.  Bitar was charged in 2011 with gambling, bank fraud and
money laundering in connection with his operation of Ireland-
based Full Tilt. He was arrested July 2 at New York’s John F.
Kennedy International Airport on his return to the U.S.  Bitar and prosecutors are working to arrange the guilty
plea, John F. Baughman, Bitar’s lawyer, told U.S. District Judge
Loretta Preska in a conference in Manhattan federal court today.
Bitar, who lives in California, was excused from attending the
court proceeding because of his health.  “It’s a very unusual situation,” Baughman said outside
court.  Bitar was arrested by agents of the U.S. Federal Bureau of
Investigation in New York on July 2, the same day he was named
in a revised indictment claiming he and another man used funds
from online players to finance Full Tilt’s operations and pay
its owners in what one prosecutor described as a Ponzi scheme.  Prosecutors from the office Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara charged Bitar along with the former Nelson Burtnick,
head of Full Tilt’s payment processing department. They claimed
Full Tilt solicited new online gamblers after the business was
outlawed in the U.S. Bitar also lied to investors about the
security of their money, claiming falsely that it was kept in
separate accounts.  Bitar is one of 11 people charged by the government in
April 2011 in connection with the online gambling sites Full
Tilt Poker, PokerStars and Absolute Poker.  The case is U.S. v. Bitar, 10-cr-00336, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  