-- GE Buys Lufkin for $3.3 Billion as Immelt Adds to Energy
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-04-08T20:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/general-electric-to-purchase-lufkin-industries-for-3-3-billion.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  is tapping
proceeds from the sale of NBC to fund its $3.3 billion purchase
of  Lufkin Industries Inc. (LUFK)  as Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  takes advantage of an oil-drilling boom.  Oil and gas has become GE’s fastest-growing segment with
sales since 2009 up 57 percent to $15.2 billion amid a shale-oil
boom poised to make the U.S. the world’s largest crude producer.
Revenue at Lufkin, which makes artificial lift equipment that
brings crude and other materials to the surface, rose 37 percent
last year to $1.3 billion.  “They’re buying the synergies, the growth,” said Brian Finneran, an analyst at William Blair & Co. in New York, which
rates GE market perform. “It’s a hot space. They’ve done a
couple deals in the past there.”  Buying companies like the oil machinery-maker is a
component of Immelt’s strategy to expand in manufacturing while
shrinking  GE Capital  after the global financial crisis. GE’s new
three-year incentive plan rewards the CEO in part for increasing
industrial profit, heightening the motive to spend some of the
$16.7 billion in cash from NBC for deals.  GE agreed to sell its 49 percent stake in  NBC Universal  to
Comcast Corp. on Feb. 12 and announced plans to increase the
size of its share repurchase program the same day. The
divestiture also gave the company “the flexibility to do more
M&A,” Chief Financial Officer  Keith Sherin  said at the time.  Lufkin holders will receive $88.50 per share in cash, and
the deal should close in the second half, GE said in a statement
today. The price is 38 percent more than Lufkin’s $63.93 close
on April 5.  ‘Little Rich’  GE is paying about 13.5 times estimated 2013 earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. That
compares with a median of 11.5 times trailing 12-month Ebitda
that buyers paid in a survey of more than 30 comparable deals,
excluding Lufkin, over the past decade, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a little rich, but there’s a lot of fat to cut
there” to lower the Lufkin, Texas-based manufacturer’s costs
and improve profit, Finneran said.  Lufkin surged 38 percent to $87.96 in  New York , the largest
increase since November 1990. Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE
rose 0.8 percent to $23.12.  GE shares previously  gained  9.2 percent this year compared
with an 8.9 percent climb for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
and a 10 percent advance for Lufkin.  NBC Cash  The proposed takeover is among the three largest of an
oilfield machinery and equipment company over the past decade,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bloomberg News  reported in
September that Lufkin was shaping up as a deal target after the
company fell to its lowest valuation in almost three years.  Lufkin will more than double GE’s share of the artificial
lift segment and give it about 15 percent market share,  Julian Mitchell , an analyst at Credit Suisse in New York, wrote today
in a note to clients.  “As high as 94 percent of existing oil wells are going to
require some form of artificial lift,” Daniel Heintzelman, CEO
of GE Oil & Gas, said in a telephone interview. “This gives us
more of a chance to become a comprehensive player.”  Lufkin has 4,500 employees in more than 40 countries. It
makes pumping units, hydraulic submersible pumps, power
transmission equipment and well automation systems.  “The fit is solid,” New York-based Sanford C. Bernstein
analyst Steven Winoker, who holds a market perform rating on GE,
wrote in an e-mail. “The price seems very high considering the
challenges and expectations in North America drilling.”  Nodding Donkeys  GE expects $60 million of cost savings from the acquisition
over five years, mainly from consolidated purchasing,Heintzelman said. Redundant headquarters staff probably will be
offered new positions and field staff will be kept because the
“industry is under terrible pressure for talent,” Heintzelman
said.  GE also plans to more broadly market Lufkin’s products
including beam pumps, known as nodding donkeys, that are
ubiquitous on oilfields, Heintzelman said in the interview.  The acquisition announcement followed GE’s plans to invest
$110 million in a research lab in  Oklahoma City  to study ways to
improve extraction of hard-to-reach oil and gas deposits,
including hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling.  That facility will hire as many as 125 engineers and
scientists in the coming months and will eventually expand its
research to more conventional drilling techniques, Chief
Technology Officer Mark Little said in a telephone interview.  GE previously expanded in the  energy industry  with $11
billion of purchases during a six-month period ended in 2011.  Simmons & Co. provided financial advice to Lufkin, while
Bracewell & Giuliani served as legal adviser. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG acted as financial advisers to
GE, with Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP offering legal guidance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  