-- German Stocks Are Little Changed as Output Beats Forecast
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-04-08T15:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/german-stocks-rebound-as-investors-await-output-report.html
German stocks  were little changed,
after the benchmark  DAX (DAX)  Index’s biggest weekly slump in eight
weeks, as a report showed industrial production in Europe’s
largest economy rebounded in February.  Bayer increased 2.6 percent after saying that the U.S.  Food
and Drug Administration  granted priority review status to its
application for a new hypertension drug. United Internet AG
advanced the most since July 26 after Morgan Stanley recommended
the shares.  The DAX added 0.1 percent to 7,662.64 at the close of
trading in in  Frankfurt , after losing 1.8 percent last week. The
equity benchmark has advanced 0.7 percent this year amid
speculation that central banks will maintain their stimulus
measures. The broader HDAX Index added 0.2 percent today.  “Investors are watching from the sidelines, which is
probably a good idea at the moment as we enter a seasonally
weaker period,” Matthias Jasper, head of equities at WGZ Bank
AG in Dusseldorf, said in a phone interview. “Today people are
cautious -- one has to see that overall sentiment has dropped
massively recently.”  The number of shares trading hands on DAX-listed companies
was 42 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  German  production  rose 0.5 percent from January, when it
contracted a revised 0.6 percent, the  Economy Ministry  said
today. Economists forecast a 0.3 percent gain, according to the
median of 41 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . From a year
earlier, production dropped 1.8 percent when adjusted for
working days.  Earnings Season  Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum producer,
unofficially  kicks off  the U.S. earnings-reporting season after
the close of U.S. markets today. Profits at companies in the  S&P
500  may contract 1.8 percent in the first quarter, the first
decline since 2009, analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Bayer,  Germany ’s largest drugmaker, rose 2.6 percent to
81.09 euros after announcing that the FDA granted priority
review to the new drug application for the oral investigational
treatment riociguat.  United Internet AG gained 4.3 percent to 19.36 euros.
Morgan Stanley initiated coverage of the phone and Internet
services provider with an overweight rating, the equivalent of a
buy recommendation, saying it may double its  dividend  by 2015.  Stada Arzneimittel  Stada Arzneimittel AG added 2.9 percent to 30.33 euros as
Berenberg Bank AG listed the drugmaker among its top five German
and Austrian small company stocks, citing management’s
successful implementation of cost-cutting measures and its
diversification toward fast-growing, high-margin products. The
shares lost 7.7 percent last week.  Patrizia Immobilien AG surged 6.7 percent to 7.62 euros,
its biggest jump since July 19. The real estate company will
lead a group of insurers, pension funds and savings banks to buy
Bayerische Landesbank’s GBW AG unit in a transaction that values
the residential landlord at 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion).  Continental AG,  Europe ’s largest tire manufacturer,
declined 1.5 percent to 89.11 euros. Italian peer Pirelli & C.
SpA said late April 5 it will postpone its presentation on the
business plan for 2013-to-2017 to November from May for better
clarity on how a weak European economy is damping demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  