-- Gillard Narrows Poll Gap for Labor Before Australia Election
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-04-08T23:46:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/gillard-narrows-poll-gap-for-labor-ahead-of-australian-election.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s ruling Labor government narrowed the gap against the
opposition in an opinion poll, consolidating her leadership five
months before an election.  Labor rose 3 percentage points to 45 percent on a two-party
preferred basis, while  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition
fell 3 points to 55 percent, according to a Newspoll published
in the Australian newspaper today. Gillard’s satisfaction level
rose 2 points to 28 percent.  Australia ’s first female prime minister, in  China  for talks
to boost trade and military ties, is seeking momentum for Labor
after its credibility was damaged last month by the party’s
third leadership battle in as many years. Gillard is attempting
to focus voter attention on the nation’s economic strengths
ahead of delivering the annual budget on May 14.  “With the leadership issue now resolved, Gillard may be
able to get some clear space to talk about her message and
policies,” said  Andrew Hughes , who conducts political-marketing
research at the  Australian National University  in Canberra.
“The budget looks like it’s her last real chance to win back
disaffected voters put off by the turmoil in Labor.”  The poll showed personal satisfaction levels for the two
leaders moving in opposite directions. While the rating for
Gillard, who won a leadership ballot unopposed March 21 when
predecessor  Kevin Rudd  refused to challenge, rose from an 18-
month low, satisfaction with Abbott’s performance among voters
fell 4 points to 35 percent.  Budget Deficit  Gillard’s government announced plans last week to curb tax
concessions for wealthy Australians saving for their retirement
amid government efforts to plug a budget deficit created by
revenue shortfalls. That came after the government was forced to
abandon a pledge to return the budget to surplus this fiscal
year, damaging Gillard’s economic credibility even as the
world’s 12th-largest economy enters its 21st year of economic
expansion.  Labor is aiming to rebalance Australia’s two-speed economy,
where mining regions in the north and west thrive on Chinese
demand while manufacturers and retailers in the south and east
struggle under the strength of the local currency. Gillard is in
Beijing today where she will attend a lunch of government and
business leaders.  The  Newspoll  survey of 1,115 people taken April 5-7 had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. On the
primary vote, which tallies respondents’ first voting
preference, Labor rose 2 points in the poll to 32 percent,
against the coalition’s 48 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  