-- GM Holden Cuts 500 Australian Workers Citing Currency Strength
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-04-08T07:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/gm-s-holden-cuts-500-australian-workers-as-local-currency-surges.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Holden division
will cut about 500 jobs in  Australia , saying the strong local
dollar and currency devaluations in competing markets had made
operations in the nation among the most expensive in the world.  The Australian dollar’s 83 percent surge against the yen
since its low on Oct. 27, 2008 propelled imports of Japanese
cars to a record high last year. The yen today dropped to its
weakest since June 2009 on expectations that  Bank of Japan 
measures to fight deflation will further debase the currency.  “I can’t control what central banks do,” Mike Devereux,
Holden managing director, told reporters in the southern city of
Adelaide today. “The value of the Australian dollar, and
importantly the currency plays being made by other countries,
mean that we are not competing on a level playing field.”  Costs at Australian plants were up 60 percent compared to
10 years earlier, making the operation “one of the most
expensive, if not the most expensive” in GM, Devereux said.  Holden will cut 12 percent of jobs at its plants in
Adelaide and Melbourne. About 500 people in the cities will be
sacked from a total workforce of 4,320, among which
manufacturing plant workers number 2,100.  Japan ’s leaders have pledged steps to boost the economy,
causing the yen’s tumble. The  Swiss National Bank  has capped the
franc at 1.20 per euro since September 2011 to help exporters
and fend off deflation.  Surging Currency  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  on Feb. 22
said the currency is “somewhat too high” considering declines
in prices for the nation’s commodity exports, while adding he’d
need to be confident it’s “seriously overvalued” before
intervening to weaken it.  The RBA’s Australian dollar trade-weighted index rose to
79.4 on March 27, the highest since 1985.  “The devaluation of the yen, because it’s quite a high
proportion of the Australian trade weighted index, could spur
the Australian dollar higher and become more of a concern for
the Reserve Bank,” said  Joshua Williamson , a senior economist
at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney. “The high Australian dollar makes
some models of foreign cars more affordable to the Australian
motoring public.”  Purchases of locally made cars fell 18 percent in the four
years to Dec. 31, according to Federal Chamber of Automotive
Industries data.  “While Holden has made significant productivity gains and
will continue to do that, we are witnessing a structural shift
in the market not just for cars but for anyone or any company
that makes things in this country,” Devereux said.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government set aside A$5.4
billion ($5.6 billion) up to 2020 to support the car industry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  