-- Goldman Sachs Targets Small Loans in Yield Hunt: Credit Markets
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2013-04-08T15:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/goldman-sachs-targets-small-loans-in-yield-hunt-credit-markets.html
A  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  unit is
joining firms from  Ares Capital Corp. (ARCC)  to  Fifth Street Finance
Corp. (FSC)  in raising about $2 billion to lend to companies unable to
tap public markets as investors seek to extract high yields.  Goldman Sachs Liberty Harbor Capital LLC, which is
organized as a so-called business-development company and
primarily lends to companies earning less than $75 million,
plans to raise money in an initial public offering, according to
a March 29 regulatory filing. Last week, New York-based Ares
Capital, the largest BDC, raised about $290 million by selling
shares, while Garrison Capital Inc. completed its IPO. Fifth
Street Finance said it may raise $1 billion.  The flurry underscores the lengths investors are willing to
go to in order to generate returns as the  Federal Reserve  keeps
benchmark  interest rates  near zero for a fifth year. While the
debt the BDCs are buying generate yields of 10 percent or more,
it doesn’t typically trade.  “Banks have largely abandoned the field in direct lending
to the mid-market and it’s been taken over in the last few years
by BDCs and private funds,” Nicholas Marshi, the chief
investment officer at Southland Capital Management, said in a
telephone interview from  Santa Monica ,  California . Marshi
manages funds that invest in BDCs.  ‘Significant Opportunities’  There are “significant opportunities” for lenders as
about $400 billion in loans from smaller, private firms mature
in the next four years, according to a report from investment
bank  Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc .  BDCs, which typically pay out most of their earnings as
dividends and get tax exemptions, usually lend to private
companies and hold the debt to maturity. The leverage at the
firms cannot exceed a debt to equity ratio of 1.  “Think of the BDCs as the intermediary between banks and
non-investment grade credit,” Leonard Tannenbaum, the chief
executive officer of Fifth Street Finance, said in a telephone
interview. “By issuing bonds and raising equity, we are able to
increase our holding size.”  Fifth Street Finance said in an April 5 regulatory filing
that it may raise as much as $1 billion to make investments in
small and mid-sized companies.  Recommendation Cut  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s revised assessment
guidelines may limit the attractiveness of such loans to some
banks, providing less competition for BDCs, Jonathan Bock, an
analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co . wrote in a March 26 report.  Bock cut his outlook for the sector to “market weight,”
citing new investment yields near historic lows.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. fell. The Markit CDX
North American Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
declined 0.9 basis points to a mid-price of 86.03 as of 11:20
a.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, increased 0.18 basis point to 15 basis
points as of 11:24 a.m. in  New York . The gauge narrows when
investors favor assets such as company debentures and widens
when they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  BDC History  Bonds of Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric Co.
are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, accounting for 5.6 percent of the
volume of dealer trades of $1 million or more as of 11:27 a.m.
in New York, according Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Business-development companies are closed-end mutual funds
that were created after legislators in 1980  amended  the
Investment Company Act of 1940 to facilitate private investment.  Allied Capital Corp., one of the earliest publicly traded
BDC, was accused by  David Einhorn , the founder of the hedge fund
Greenlight Capital, of making fraudulent loans. In March 2009,
its auditors expressed doubt about the company’s ability to
continue and in October of that year it was purchased by Ares
Capital for $648 million in stock.  Einhorn’s Greenlight is the fourth-biggest  holder  of Fifth
Street Finance, Bloomberg data show.  Publicly listed BDCs have more than doubled since 2009 to
more than 35, according to Southland’s Marshi. Sales of junk-
rated debt funds known as non-traded BDCs doubled to a record
$2.8 billion last year, according to MTS Research Advisors.  Ares Fund  The companies, which operate with an average leverage of
about 0.6 times, according to an April report from Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods analysts Troy Ward and Greg Mason, use the
money from borrowings and equity offerings to lend to smaller
firms. BDC may also make equity investments.  Ares Capital held senior debt of about $3.6 billion,
compared with about $669 million of preferred and other equity
securities of its $5.8 billion investments, according to its
Feb. 27 regulatory filing. The company has a market
capitalization of $4.7 billion, up from about $500 million four
years ago, Bloomberg data show.  A new proposed legislation for BDCs seeks to increase the
maximum allowable debt to two times total equity, Marshi said.
“They could choose to borrow more money, which unfortunately
makes the structure more riskier,” he said.  Interest in BDCs is rising just as Fed officials express
concern that its asset purchase program and low interest rate
policy is making investors search out ever-riskier deals to
generate returns.  Loan Yields  Yields on speculative-grade bonds fell to a record low of
6.38 percent on March 28, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show. The average yield on middle-market loans has dropped
to 6.83 percent from 11.55 percent at the end of 2009, according
to S&P’s Capital IQ Leveraged Commentary & Data.  Goldman Sachs’s Liberty Harbor unit was funded by the
parent company in November and has since invested about $73
million in eight companies, according to its March 29 filing.
About 31 percent of that is in first-lien debt, and 60 percent
in second-lien borrowings.  Consolidation of regional banks into money-center banks has
reduced the focus on middle-market lending, diminishing the
availability of credit and resulting in higher  interest rates 
for the companies, according to the filing. Andrea Raphael, a
spokeswoman at Goldman Sachs, declined to comment on how much
may be raised in the IPO.  Goldman’s Arrival  Deposits at U.S. banks exceed loans by an unprecedented $2
trillion, Bloomberg data show. This is happening even as U.S.
commercial bank assets loans have  climbed  to a four-year high of
$1.5 trillion, according to data from the Fed.  “With an entrant like Goldman Sachs in the market, it
obviously raises awareness,” Troy Ward, an analyst at Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods, said in a telephone interview. “If you think
about the size of the middle market, the assets that BDCs have
available to invest is just a drop in the bucket.”  The annualized average credit losses in BDCs since 2006 has
been less than 1 percent, with recovery rates higher than
larger, more broadly distributed loans, according to Ward. Last
year, BDCs raised $3.9 billion in IPOs and follow-on offerings,
the most since 2007, according to Ward. More than $1 billion in
debt was raised in about 15 issues, the most on record.  Open Market  “It’s a market that has just opened up,” Ward said about
the firms issuing debt. “Before 2012, nobody had really tried,
and within a few months these companies were able to tap this
market and cut rates.”  Ares, which first came to the market with a $143 million
offering, paid a 7 percent coupon on its 10-year preferred
notes. When it returned to borrow more money in September, the
firm paid 5.88 percent on its $175 million 10-year preferred
debt. That compared with a 0.7 percent reduction on yields in
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Index for similarly-rated
debt.  “Everything suggests that there will be very fast growth
in this sector,” Marshi said. “You have to assume 20 percent
annual growth until the next recession.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  