-- Guaranty Trust Bank Nigeria CEO Plans to Expand in East Africa
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2013-04-08T14:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/guaranty-trust-bank-nigeria-ceo-plans-to-expand-in-east-africa.html
Guaranty Trust Bank Plc (GUARANTY) , Nigeria’s
largest lender by market value, will open units in Kenya,
Tanzania and Uganda as it seeks to expand in  East Africa , Chief
Executive Officer Segun Agbaje said.  The bank will “acquire lenders that are not that large,
but profitable in those countries in the short term,” he said
in a conference call from Lagos, the commercial capital.  Guaranty Trust Bank, which is currently operating in six
countries outside Nigeria, is targeting the East African nations
owing to their “appreciable gross domestic product, growing
investments and ease of doing business,” Agbaje said.  Nigeria is sub-Saharan Africa’s biggest economy after  South
Africa . The country’s lenders are returning to profitability
after Central Bank of  Nigeria  Governor Lamido Sanusi bailed out
banks with 620 billion naira ($3.9 billion) as loans to equity
speculators and fuel importers pushed the industry near
collapse. The government then created the Asset Management Corp.
of Nigeria to buy bad debts from the country’s lenders.  Guaranty Trust Bank is seeking loan growth of 20 percent
this year from about 11 percent in 2012 and intends to invest
more in large oil and manufacturing companies, Agbaje said.  The bank’s profit after tax and income from discontinued
operations rose to 87.2 billion naira in 2012 from 51.7 billion
naira a year earlier, the lender said on April 2.  The bank’s  shares  fell 1.7 percent to 25.50 naira at the
close in Lagos. The stock has advanced 11 percent this year
compared with the 22 percent gain of 10-member  Bloomberg
Nigerian Stock Exchange Banking Index. (NGSEB10)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  