-- Michigan Faces Louisville for Title Fab Five Couldn’t Win
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-08T12:50:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/michigan-faces-louisville-for-ncaa-title-that-escaped-fab-five.html
University of  Michigan  sophomore
guard Trey Burke and his freshmen teammates have a chance to win
the national championship the school’s Fab Five never did.  The Wolverines, the least-experienced of the 68 teams in
the National Collegiate Athletic Association men’s basketball
tournament, meet the top-ranked University of Louisville tonight
in the title game at the Georgia Dome in Atlanta.  Michigan’s most-recent appearances in the national
championship game came in 1992 and 1993, losing when the Fab
Five recruiting class of Chris Webber, Jalen Rose, Juwan Howard,
Jimmy King and Ray Jackson were freshmen and sophomores. This
year, Burke leads another group of talented underclassmen for
the Wolverines, who are 4-point underdogs against Louisville.  “When I came in as a freshman, I didn’t know what my role
was going to be,” Burke said yesterday, when he won the
Naismith Trophy as college basketball’s national player of the
year. “But I was thrown right into the fire. I had an
opportunity to learn leadership skills my first year and allowed
me to become the leader I am today.”  The Wolverines showed in their Final Four win against
Syracuse two days ago that they’re not completely reliant on
Burke, who’s averaging 18.5 points and 6.8 assists a game this
season.  As the 20-year-old guard was held to a tournament-low seven
points on 1-of-8 shooting, freshman forward Mitch McGary had 10
points and 12 rebounds, while Tim Hardaway Jr. and Glenn
Robinson III -- both sons of former National Basketball
Association All-Stars -- combined for 23 points and 12 rebounds.  Underclassmen Lead  Hardaway, a junior guard, is the only of Michigan’s top
five scorers who isn’t a freshman or sophomore. The team’s
average experience is 0.8 years, according to  Sports
Illustrated . No other team’s roster averaged less than one
year’s experience.  In the NCAA tournament, McGary has averaged a team-high 16
points and 11.6 rebounds, while freshmen Robinson, Nik Stauskas,
Caris LeVert and Spike Albrecht have combined to average 28
points in the Wolverines’ wins over South Dakota State, Virginia
Commonwealth,  Kansas ,  Florida  and Syracuse.  Louisville coach  Rick Pitino  credits sixth-year Michigan
coach John Beilein with the development of the Wolverines, who
in January were ranked No. 1 in the Associated Press poll for
the first time in 21 years. Michigan (31-7) lost five of its
final 10 games to end the regular season before beginning
pursuit of its first national title since 1989.  ‘Remarkable Team’  “On paper you would say this is a young basketball team,”
Pitino said. “But because he’s done such a great job molding
this team, they play like seniors. You don’t see guys pass,
catch and shoot like that. This is a remarkable team the way
they share, the way they pass. They don’t play like a young
basketball team.”  Pitino can become the first coach in college basketball
history to win national championships at two different schools
tonight, having previously won an NCAA title at  Kentucky  in
1996. Louisville entered this year’s tournament as the favorite
of Las Vegas oddsmakers and was the only No. 1 seed from the
four regions to reach the Final Four.  The Cardinals (34-5) are riding a 15-game winning streak
and set a school record for victories this season.  They have overcome challenges the past two games,
recovering from the broken leg suffered by reserve guard Kevin
Ware in the Midwest region final against Duke and rallying from
a 12-point second-half deficit for a 72-68 victory against
Wichita State two days ago. Ware sat alongside his teammates on
the bench during that win, which sent Louisville into the NCAA
tournament’s championship game for the first time since 1986,
when the school secured its most-recent title.  “We’ve had a great run,” Pitino said. “Now we’re playing
for a championship. It’s a lot of fun, and we’re certainly going
to enjoy it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  