-- Michigan’s Big House to Host Annual NHL Winter Classic in 2014
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-04-08T14:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/michigan-s-big-house-to-host-annual-nhl-winter-classic-in-2014.html
Michigan Stadium will be the next
host of the  National Hockey League ’s Winter Classic, the annual
outdoor game that has drawn large crowds and boosted television
ratings as the league’s marquee regular-season contest.  The  Toronto Maple Leafs  and  Detroit Red Wings  will play on
Jan. 1, 2014, in the home of the University of Michigan’s
football team, the NHL announced in an e-mailed release. They
are the same teams and venue originally announced for the 2013
game, which was canceled during the league’s four-month lockout.  Nicknamed the “Big House,” the 110,000-seat stadium is
the biggest in the U.S. and could break its own record for
largest attendance at a hockey game, over 104,000 for a 2010
contest between Michigan and Michigan State, according to the
release. In coordination with the game, an outdoor hockey
festival in  Detroit  is expected to host 250,000 visitors.  “The history of the teams’ cross-border rivalry, the
nobility of the Big House and the growing tradition of the NHL
Winter Classic will raise the anticipation for this event to new
heights,” NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman said in the release.  The first five Winter Classic games ranked among the six
most-watched regular-season games in league history in the U.S.
A record 4.5 million viewers watched the 2011 contest between
the  Pittsburgh Penguins  and the Washington Capitals at Heinz
Field in Pittsburgh.  The Maple Leafs and the Red Wings, two of the NHL’s
original six franchises, play 230 miles (370 kilometers) apart.
Under the league’s realignment that begins next season, they
will compete in the same division.  Next year will be the first time in the Winter Classic’s
six-year history that a Canadian team will be featured. The NHL
has in the past held the Heritage Classic, an outdoor game
between two Canadian teams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  