-- Immigration Agents Ask Judge to Block Obama Initiative
-- B y   T h o m a s   K o r o s e c   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-04-08T19:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/immigration-agents-ask-judge-to-block-obama-initiative.html
Ten U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agents are asking a federal judge to block an
initiative by the Obama administration that defers deportation
action against law-abiding undocumented immigrants.  Announced by President  Barack Obama  last year, the program
allows the children of undocumented immigrants who were brought
to the U.S. before age 16 to remain in the country if they have
no criminal record and meet other criteria.  The agents sued ICE and the federal Department of Homeland
Security over the policy in August. U.S. District Judge Reed O’Connor in Dallas is hearing arguments today on a request to
block the measure.  “Officers are applying the directive to people detained in
jails, not kids in school. It is now the story in the jails for
aliens to use to avoid arrest and deportation,” lead plaintiff
Christopher L. Crane testified in court today.  He is president of the National Immigration and Customs
Enforcement  Council , a 7,600-member federal immigration agents’
union.  The hearing comes as bipartisan groups in the U.S. Senate
and the House of Representatives negotiate legislation that
would resolve the status of more than 11 million undocumented
immigrants while addressing issues of border security.  Florida Republican Marco Rubio and  New York  Democrat
Charles Schumer are among those in the Senate negotiations,
while Illinois Democrat Luis Gutierrez and Idaho Republican Raul Labrador are part of the House talks.  ‘Not Amnesty’  The administration’s “Deferred Action” initiative,
announced in June, was created with the intent of shifting
immigration agency focus toward border security and the removal
of dangerous people.  “This is not amnesty, this is not immunity,” Obama said
at the time. “This is not a path to citizenship, it’s not a
permanent fix.” Deferral, if conferred, is valid for two years,
during which the person may obtain authorization for employment,
and can be renewed, according to the  ICE website .  The U.S. has opposed the agents’ bid for a court order
blocking the program, arguing they’ve shown no likelihood of
imminent and irreparable injury, and cannot prevail on the
merits.  ‘Agency Discretion’  “The challenged action here (an agency’s issuance of
memoranda providing guidance on how it will prioritize its
enforcement efforts) is inherently a matter committed to agency
discretion by law for which this court lacks jurisdiction,” the
U.S. said in a December court filing.  O’Connor in January denied a government request to throw
out the case, ruling that the agents were legally qualified to
pursue most of their claims.  Crane told the court today that he and his peers don’t make
street arrests. Their role is to review the immigration status
of people who are already in state and local custody, he said.  ICE agents are often summoned to crowded jails where
detainees who may be in the country unlawfully are turned over
to them. When those detainees are found to not have prior felony
convictions and otherwise meet the deferred-action criteria,
immigration agents are compelled to release them, Crane said.  “If they enforce immigration law, they can face
disciplinary action,” including dismissal, Crane said.  One-Third Eligible  Also testifying today was ICE agent and co-plaintiff Samuel
Martin, who said he works in jails and prisons in El Paso,
 Texas . He told the court that about a third of the detainees he
interviews claim to be eligible for deferred action.  “They voice it to us. They say, ‘I fall under Obama’s
Dream Act,’” Martin. Aliens found to not have a felony
conviction are taken at their word that they have otherwise
complied with requirements for deferred action, he said.  The U.S. has not called any witnesses.  O’Connor will hear argument from lawyers for both sides
this afternoon.  The case is Crane v. Napolitano, 3:12-cv-03247, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas federal court at
 tkorosec@texaswordworks.com ;
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  