-- Immigration Law Needs Border Control for Republican Votes
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-04-08T19:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/immigration-law-needs-border-control-for-republican-votes.html
The immigration revisions that a
Senate group is set to unveil soon will hinge on a Republican
demand: making a pathway to citizenship for the undocumented in
the U.S. contingent on a measurable boost in border security.  While trying to reconnect with a growing Hispanic
electorate that has turned Democratic in voting, Republican
lawmakers are mindful of those within their party who rally
around candidates campaigning against undocumented immigration.
They will try to find that  balance  in legislation that eight
senators of both parties are set to propose this week, followed
by a plan that a bipartisan House group is writing.  Republicans, cautious not to alienate their political base,
want to demonstrate that they’re “tough on border security,”
said Bruce Altschuler, a political scientist at the  State
University of New York  at Oswego. “They need something in the
legislation that will protect their right flank.”  The Senate group’s plan will provide more Border Patrol
agents, improved infrastructure such as radio networks, and
increased surveillance by unmanned aerial drones. The
legislation will propose a commission of state and local
officials from states bordering  Mexico  to monitor progress of
these measures and advise the Department of  Homeland Security ,
according to principles the Senate group released in January.  ‘Important Criteria’  “A 90 percent effective border control is really an
important criteria,”  Arizona  Senator  John McCain , a Republican
member of the Senate group, said in a March 22 interview with
Bloomberg Television. “There is a commitment on the part of all
members not only to spend more on the border and expand the
fences, but to use the technology that -- if there’s anything
good that came out of Iraq and  Afghanistan  -- it’s this
dramatically improved surveillance capabilities we have.”  The push to rewrite U.S. immigration law is the first major
effort since 2007. Republican opposition to a citizenship path
has declined since November’s election, when President  Barack Obama  won 71 percent of Hispanic votes cast. Republican leaders
say the party needs to do more to court the fast-growing voter
bloc.  An increase in border security could serve as a trigger
allowing some of the estimated 11 million undocumented
immigrants in the U.S. to move toward citizenship. How to
measure improved security will be a contentious element of the
congressional debate, said Tamar Jacoby, president of
ImmigrationWorks USA, a federation of state-based business
groups that advocate revising laws.  Political Trade  “That trigger is going to be very important to Republican
lawmakers,” Jacoby said, describing it as the political trade
that Republicans will make for supporting a citizenship path.  While the Senate group and Obama administration say the
undocumented should pass criminal background checks and pay back
taxes and fines before becoming U.S. citizens, the
administration has questioned linking border security.  “Once people really look at the whole system and how it
works, relying on one thing as a so-called trigger is not the
way to go,” Homeland Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  said
at a March 26 breakfast sponsored by the Christian Science
Monitor. “There needs to be certainty in the bill so that
people know when they can legalize and then when a pathway to
citizenship, earned citizenship would open up.”  Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said border-security
concerns need to be addressed to get a bill passed, “but that
should not be used as an excuse for not getting this done.”  ‘Broken System’  “We’ve got a broken system, everyone knows it’s broken, it
needs to be fixed, and we need Congress to get it done,”
Vilsack told reporters today.  Chris Crane, president of the National ICE Counsel, the
union that represents 7,000 immigration enforcement officers and
employees, said he was concerned that the Senate plan was headed
toward allowing “legalization or amnesty first, and then
enforcement.”  “If we don’t take care of the enforcement part of this
first, it will never happen,” Crane told reporters April 3.
“The only thing that will happen will be that 11 million
illegal aliens will be legalized, and 10 to 20 years from now
the nation will again be facing the influx of another 10 to 20
million illegal aliens.”  The government already is deporting many who entered the
U.S. illegally. U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
deported 396,906 people in fiscal year 2011 and a record 409,849
in fiscal 2012, according to figures released by the agency, a
part of the Department of Homeland Security.  Expired Visas  Still, lawmakers question the effectiveness of border
protection that has enabled millions to enter the U.S. without
papers or remain in the country after visas have expired.  “When I hear Napolitano and others say our borders are
secure, it makes me kind of squeamish because it’s not true,”
said Representative Raul Labrador, an Idaho Republican elected
in 2010 with Tea Party backing and an immigration lawyer.  “There are certain triggers that we need to be able to
meet before anybody receives” a new legal status, said
Labrador, a member of the House group preparing an immigration
proposal.  The last major immigration revision, signed by President
 Ronald Reagan  in 1986, made 3 million undocumented workers
eligible for legal status and created a market for fraudulent
documentation. Illegal immigration soared, casting a shadow on
subsequent efforts to legalize immigrants.  ‘More Concerned’  “A lot of Republicans are thinking about border security
as the way to not have to do this again in five years or 10
years,” Jacoby said. “In the Republican-controlled House,
people are going to be even more concerned not to repeat the
mistake.”  The Senate proposal will require businesses to
electronically verify that employees are in the country legally
and impose fines and criminal penalties on those who knowingly
hire people not authorized to be in the country.  About 40 percent of undocumented immigrants in the U.S.
overstayed visas rather than illegally crossing the border.  Two Democratic members of the Senate group --  New York ’s
 Charles Schumer  and  Colorado ’s Michael Bennet -- accompanied
Jeff Flake, Arizona’s other Republican senator, on a March 27
tour of a portion of Arizona’s border with Mexico. McCain and
Flake are members of the Senate group and have been outspoken
about the need for more resources at the border.  Adequate Manpower  Schumer, the Senate’s third-ranking Democrat, told
reporters following the tour that the trip convinced him that
federal border agents “have adequate manpower but not adequate
technology.” He stressed the need for an “effective but also
cost-effective” approach.  During the tour, McCain posted on his Twitter account that
the group witnessed a woman “a few yards away” climbing an 18-
foot security fence to enter the U.S. He also reported that
agents apprehended the woman.  “Most of the people who jump over the fence are doing it
because they want a better life, and I understand that,” McCain
later told reporters. He added that part of the group’s aim is
to provide better legal options for such people.  Senators of both parties have raised concerns about the
cost of ramping up border security. Schumer said following the
border tour that the Senate group’s proposal would have to add
no costs to the  federal budget . Florida Senator Marco Rubio, a
Republican member of the group, said April 4 he would carefully
review a Congressional Budget Office analysis of the Senate
plan’s costs when it’s available.  Electronic Verification  In the absence of federal action, about one-third of states
have enacted an electronic verification requirement for at least
some business owners. Arizona in 2010 enacted a law making it a
crime not to carry immigration documents and granting law
enforcement police broad power to detain those suspected of
being in the U.S. illegally.  The  Supreme Court  last year overturned most of the law.  “It’s been a period of enforcement, but a lot of the
enforcement measures were passed in states,” Jacoby said.  Among Republican leaders, the search for a national
solution is motivated by a slipping hold on Hispanic voters.  “Republicans are in a bind,” Altschuler said. “They’re
desperate to pass some sort of immigration reform so they can
say to Latino voters, ‘We’ve done this. Let’s look at other
issues.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  