-- Indonesia Markets Dollar Debt; Japan Bond Risk Drops to 2010 Low
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-04-08T05:35:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/indonesia-markets-dollar-debt-japan-bond-risk-drops-to-2010-low.html
Republic of  Indonesia , CIFI Holdings
Group Co. and Bank of Ceylon are marketing U.S. dollar-
denominated notes. Bond risk in Japan fell to the lowest in 2
1/2 years after the central bank took steps last week to fight
deflation.  Indonesia is considering selling 10-year notes at a yield
of about 3.625 percent and 30-year securities at about 4.95
percent, according to a person familiar with the matter who
asked not to be identified because the terms aren’t set. CIFI
Holdings, a Shanghai-based developer, is offering five-year
bonds at about 12.5 percent while Bank of Ceylon is marketing
similar-maturity notes at about 5.5 percent, other people said.  Asia-Pacific borrowers are returning to the U.S. currency
bond market after pausing note sales last week amid holidays in
 China  and Hong Kong. Average yield premiums on dollar debt in
Asia fell to a four-week low of 4.29 percent on April 5,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. The cost of insuring
corporate bonds in Japan against non-payment extended declines
to the least since November 2010 even as South Korea’s
government said North Korea may detonate a nuclear device and
carry out a missile test as early as this week.  “The pipeline of prospective U.S. dollar deals is
continuing to grow,” said Mark Reade, a Hong Kong-based credit
desk analyst at Credit Agricole CIB. “It’s no surprise a number
of issuers have chosen to brave the North Korea-led volatility
in an effort to gain first-mover advantage post the Easter
holiday break.”  Japanese Bonds  The Markit iTraxx  Japan  index fell 4 basis points to 92
basis points as of 9:12 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Citigroup
Inc. prices. The drop follows a 7.7-basis-point slide on April
5, according to data provider CMA.  Bank of Japan officials said April 4 the central bank will
increase its monthly bond purchases to 7.5 trillion yen ($76.1
billion), exceeding the 5.2 trillion yen forecast by economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. They also suspended a cap on some bond
holdings, dropped a limit on debt maturities and set a two-year
horizon for their goal of 2 percent inflation.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index fell 1.5 basis points to
117.9 basis points as of 10:08 a.m. in Sydney, according to
Westpac Banking Corp. prices. The benchmark is on track for its
lowest close since the current series of the index started
trading on March 20, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private
market.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan fell 1 to 121 basis points as of 8:48
a.m. in Hong Kong, Westpac prices show. The measure last closed
lower on April 4.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  