-- Indonesia Sells $3 Billion of Debt in 2013’s First Global Sale
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o   a n d   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-04-08T20:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/indonesia-markets-10-30-year-global-bonds-as-dollar-sales-cut.html
Indonesia  sold $3 billion of 10- and
30-year dollar bonds today, tapping the global market for the
first time this year, according to a person familiar with the
offering.  The nation issued $1.5 billion of notes due April 2023 to
yield 3.50 percent, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because he’s not authorized to speak publicly. It
also sold $1.5 billion of debt maturing in 2043 to pay 4.75
percent.  The  average yield  on Indonesian sovereign bonds has fallen
12 basis points to 4.24 percent since climbing to an eight-month
high March 28, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
indexes. The rupiah’s 6 percent drop versus the dollar in the
past year has been pushing up debt servicing costs for the
Southeast Asian nation, which plans to cut the proportion of
bonds sold in foreign currencies to 14 percent in 2013, from 21
percent last year, Robert Pakpahan, director general at the debt
management office in Jakarta, said Feb. 6.  “This year is the right time to issue global bonds before
global yields begin to rise in the coming years,” Herdi Wibowo,
the head of debt capital markets at PT BCA Sekuritas, a unit of
the nation’s largest lender by market value, said before the
offer. “The government is taking the opportunity to sell as
soon as possible due to prospects for a recovery in the U.S.,
which will prompt global inflation to start picking up.”  PT Danareksa Sekuritas, JPMorgan, Deutsche Bank AG,
Standard Chartered Plc and PT Mandiri Sekuritas assisted with
the sale.  Weakening Rupiah  The 5.9 percent drop in the rupiah against the dollar in
2012 boosted debt servicing costs to 982 billion rupiah ($101
million), according to Bloomberg estimates based on finance
ministry data. The average dollar  debt yield  for Asian borrowers
was 3.52 percent, approaching October’s record low of 3.35
percent, an HSBC Holdings Plc index shows.  Indonesia plans to tap the international market again in
the second half of the year, Loto Srianita Ginting, director of
 government securities  at the debt management office, said April
3. The government sold dollar-denominated debt three times last
year, with the most recent a November offer of $1 billion of 10-
year Islamic notes with a coupon of 3.3 percent. The yield on
the securities has since climbed four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 3.34 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Indonesia’s dollar
notes rather than similar-maturity Treasuries has widened 51
basis points this year to 230 basis points, the biggest premium
since August, according to JPMorgan. Government dollar bonds due
2042 have climbed over the past six trading days, cutting the
yield 24 basis points to 4.59 percent.  Default Swaps  The cost of insuring Indonesian debt using five-year
credit-default swaps fell six basis points to 158 basis points
last week, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. The swaps retreated another five basis points
to 153 today, London prices showed.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  will double its monetary base by the end
of 2014 by buying  government bonds , it said on April 5, in the
nation’s largest round of quantitative easing.  “The government is offering quite high yields to make sure
its first sale is a success, which will set the trend for the
rest of the year,” said Ezra Nazula, the Jakarta-based head of
fixed income at PT Manulife Asset Management Indonesia, which
oversees 25 trillion rupiah of debt. “The timing is good, with
all things considered, right after the recent announcement for
monetary easing by  Japan .”  Split Rating  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings assigned the
bonds their lowest investment grade rankings, according to
statements today. Standard & Poor’s rated the offer, part of a
$20 billion program, at the highest junk level, it said in a
note today.  Fitch and Moody’s restored Indonesia to investment grade
more than a year ago. S&P has refrained from following them,
saying last April that the country was at risk from “policy
slippages” such as its failure to cut fuel subsidies.  The government is still looking at ways to trim the fuel-
subsidy bill. It is considering measures to limit usage, while
not ruling out price increases, Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  said in March.  Indonesia’s dollar-denominated debt has returned 7.9
percent in the past year, the fourth-worst performance among 11
Asian economies tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc indexes.  South
Korea , Malaysia and  Singapore  delivered lower returns, while
 Pakistan ’s 21 percent gain was the best performance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  