-- Intrade Shortfall, BOE Stress, Borsa Istanbul: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-04-08T12:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/intrade-shortfall-boe-stress-view-borsa-istanbul-compliance.html
Intrade , the betting website that
halted trading last month amid a probe into suspected financial
irregularities, told customers it has found a $700,000 shortfall
in client funds as it seeks their backing for a survival plan.  The Dublin-based company uncovered the shortfall after
comparing cash on hand and in member accounts with balances on
the exchange’s system, Ronald Bernstein, who became a director
in November and is leading the rescue effort, said in an e-mail
to clients, a copy of which was obtained by  Bloomberg News . He
confirmed the letter’s contents.  Intrade, which let people bet against one another on the
outcomes of events, such as U.S. presidential elections, stopped
taking wagers and froze member accounts on March 10 after saying
it had uncovered suspected financial irregularities. The company
is now asking members to accept immediate repayment of half
their frozen money and waive claims to the rest on the “solemn
promise” that Intrade will try to refund that later.  Investors have until April 9 to sign up to the plan, he
wrote. The company is still in “active” talks with investors,
Bernstein said.  Compliance Policy  BOE Says Investors May Be Taking ‘Too Rosy’ a View of Stress  The  Bank of England  said rising equity markets don’t
reflect the underlying economic situation and warned that
investors may be underestimating risks in the financial system.  Gains by equities since mid-2012 “in part reflected
exceptionally accommodative monetary policies by many central
banks,” the BOE’s Financial Policy Committee said April 5 in
London in the minutes of its March 19 meeting. “It was also
consistent with a perception among some contacts that the most
significant downside risks had attenuated. But market sentiment
may be taking too rosy a view of the underlying stresses.”  At the meeting, the FPC recommended that U.K. lenders raise
25 billion pounds ($38 billion) of additional capital to cover
bigger potential losses, possible fines for mis-selling and
stricter risk models. While banks have strengthened their
resilience in recent years, the FPC said April 5 that not all of
them may be able to withstand unexpected shocks and maintain
lending to companies and households.  The FPC discussed potential threats from the crisis in
Cyprus, which agreed on an international bailout last month.
While at the time of the March 19 meeting there were “minimal
signs” of spillovers to other financial systems, there was “a
risk that this situation could change,” the committee said.  The panel, which was operating on an interim basis until
the start of last week, recommended that financial institutions
limit payouts such as bonuses and dividends. In their
discussion, the FPC members noted the potential threats to the
financial system from increased risk appetite among investors.  The FPC also said that banks’ leverage ratios, a measure of
their debt to equity level, would remain “very high” even
after the new recommendations were met. It said there would be
“little margin for error against a backdrop of low growth in
the advanced economies.”  The committee, without naming any banks, said the
Prudential Regulation Authority should take leverage ratios into
account when determining individual bank capital requirements.  EU’s Semeta Says Austria in ‘Lonely’ Position on EU Savings Plan  Austria may find itself isolated if it continues to resist
European Union savings-tax proposals, EU Tax Commissioner
Algirdas Semeta said.  Semeta said Luxembourg is loosening its opposition to
automatic exchange of information, citing comments from that
nation’s Finance Minister Luc Frieden to Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung. The tax chief said this “long-overdue” shift paves
the way to move ahead on the EU negotiations, which have been
stalled since last year.  “The spotlight is now on Austria,” Semeta said in a
statement. “If it continues to resist this inevitable progress
towards greater transparency, it will find itself in a lonely
and quite unsustainable position.”  Luxembourg and Austria last year vetoed negotiations over
the extension of a savings tax because of concerns that they
would be forced to give up banking secrecy measures that attract
foreign depositors. The two countries blocked the European Union
from starting talks on updating the seven-year-old tax accord
with Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Monaco, Andorra and San Marino.  U.K. Says Bonus Curbs It Fought Threaten Financial Stability  Banker bonus curbs backed by the rest of the European Union
imperil efforts to make lenders more resilient in crises, the
U.K. said in a new attack following Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne ’s defeated bid to block the measures.  The limits banning bonuses more than twice fixed pay “will
be damaging to financial stability and the soundness of affected
credit institutions” and “are not consistent with
internationally agreed principles,” the U.K. said in a
 statement  to the EU’s Council of Ministers, published on the
EU’s website.  Britain also criticized the broader legislation containing
the pay rules, saying it may fail “in certain significant
areas” to properly implement global standards agreed on by the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. The Basel group has
promised to report on whether the final version of the EU rules
clashes with an international accord known as Basel III.  The U.K., which lacks a veto on financial laws, was the
sole dissenting voice opposing a deal struck between governments
and EU lawmakers last month on how to apply the Basel rules --
which more than triple the core reserves that banks must hold
against possible losses. The European Parliament insisted on
adding the pay curbs in a bid to stop excessive bonuses that it
said spurred irresponsible risk taking.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Istanbul Opens New Bourse as Erdogan Seeks to Build Finance Hub  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  rang the opening bell
at the new Borsa Istanbul April 5, marking its first trading
day.  The new bourse incorporates the 28-year-old Istanbul Stock
Exchange with the Istanbul Gold Exchange and the Izmir-based
derivatives exchange. The exchange plans to encompass
commodities and electricity trading in the near future, as a
part of Erdogan’s plan to make Istanbul a regional financial
center and Turkey’s economy one of the world’s 10 biggest by
2023.  Turkish equities were the second best performers worldwide
last year, with the benchmark  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  surging
more than 60 percent in dollar terms. It has  added  almost 5
percent this year.  Still, the value of listed companies is lower than some
competitors, with many Turkish companies preferring to stay
private.  Ten companies started trading in Istanbul last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It may take a few more
years for Borsa Istanbul to hold its own initial public
offering, and it may eventually consider merging with other
exchanges, Huseyin Erkan, chief executive of the World
Federation of Exchanges and a former head of the Istanbul
exchange, said in an interview at the ceremony. Turkey’s new
capital markets law, which came into effect on Dec. 30, has
turned the bourse into a joint stock company with capital of
423.2 million liras ($235 million).  At the ceremony, Turkish officials pledged to encourage
more firms to go public.  CFPB to Start Releasing Mortgage Rule Compliance Guides  The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau will start
releasing “plain language” compliance guides this week to help
the mortgage industry comply with new regulations, the CFPB said
in an e-mailed statement.  The agency has set up an e-mail list to share information
about specific regulations.  Asia Currencies Have Worst Week Since January on BOJ Push, Curbs  Asian currencies fell the most last week since January as
policy makers from the Philippines to Japan proposed measures
that tend to weaken their exchange rates.  The  Bank of Japan  said April 4 it would double monthly bond
buying to 7 trillion yen ($73 billion) to fight deflation and
South Korea’s presidential office signaled it favors lower
borrowing costs. The Philippine central bank is considering
steps to spur capital outflows, Governor Amando Tetangco said
last week, while data signaled the  U.S. economy  is starting to
cool.  North Korea said on April 3 that it will restart all
facilities at the Yongbyon nuclear site shut by a 2007
disarmament accord. Overseas funds pulled a net $625 million
from the Korean stock market last week through April 4.  Malaysia’s ringgit rallied after Prime Minister Najib Razak
dissolved parliament on April 3 and called for national
elections.  Hong Kong Bourse Mulls Rates, Materials for After-Hours Trading  Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., which today is
starting after-hours trading in equity futures, will later offer
trading on currency, interest-rate and commodity futures, said
bourse executive Calvin Tai.  The world’s largest exchange company by market value will
open a trading session from 5 p.m. to 11 p.m. for standard
contracts on the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  and the Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index. This will create the infrastructure to later
offer currency, interest-rate and commodity futures, Tai, co-
head of equities, fixed income and currency, said in a telephone
interview April 5.  The extra session will allow existing investors to hedge
and adjust positions when news breaks in European hours, Tai
said. Hong Kong owns the London Metal Exchange. The Shanghai
Futures Exchange also plans to add after-hours trading in a bid
to become a more global marketplace, an official at the bourse
said March 13.  Tai said the Hong Kong exchange operator plans to expand
after-hours futures trading to mini contracts on the city’s two
main indexes by the end of the year if the program is
successful. There is no timeline to add futures on other asset
classes, he said.  For more, click here.  Courts  Ex-Credit Suisse CDO Chief Serageldin Pleads Not Guilty to Fraud  Kareem Serageldin, the ex-global head of  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) ’s structured credit trading business, pleaded not
guilty to charges he led a 2007 scheme to mark up the value of
debt securities to meet targets and boost year-end bonuses for
his $5.35 billion trading book.  Serageldin, a U.S. citizen who lives in England, was taken
into custody by the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation April 5
after he was extradited from the U.K., Assistant U.S. Attorney
Eugene Ingoglia told U.S. Magistrate Judge Kevin Fox at
Serageldin’s arraignment the same day in Manhattan.  Fox ordered Serageldin released on $1.5 million bond, to be
co-signed by his brother and guaranteed with $750,000 in cash, a
bail package agreed between Serageldin and prosecutors before
the court proceeding. Serageldin is scheduled to return to court
April 12.  He was arrested outside the U.S. consulate in London in
September.  Sean Casey, a lawyer for Serageldin, declined to comment on
the case after the arraignment. Victoria Harmon, a spokeswoman
for Zurich-based Credit Suisse, declined to comment.  The U.S. criminal cases are U.S. v. Higgs, 12-cr-00088, and
U.S. v. Siddiqui, 12-cr-00089, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The SEC case is U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Serageldin, 12-cv-00796,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews  Boleat Says Financial Transaction Tax Is ‘Misconceived’  Mark Boleat, chairman of the  Policy and Resources Committee
of the City of London , discussed financial services regulation,
caps on bonuses and proposals for a financial transaction tax.  He spoke with Francine Lacqua and  Guy Johnson  on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse.”  For the video, click here.  CFPB Says 4 Mortgage Insurers Fined in Kickback Probe  Richard Cordray , director of the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, and Kent Markus, director for enforcement,
spoke on a teleconference about an agreement by four mortgage
insurers to pay more than $15 million in penalties to settle
claims they paid illegal kickbacks to lenders in exchange for
business.  The four companies involved are Genworth Mortgage Insurance
Corp., part of  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) ; United Guaranty Corp., a
unit of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ; Radian Guaranty Inc.,
a unit of  Radian Group Inc. (RDN) ; and Mortgage Guaranty Insurance
Corp., a unit of  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)   For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings/Executive Pay  Prudential Pays CEO $11.9 Million for 2012 After U.K. Reprimand  Prudential Plc (PRU) , the U.K.’s biggest insurer by market value,
paid Chief Executive Officer Tidjane Thiam 7.8 million pounds
($11.9 million) in 2012 even after he was reprimanded by the
British regulator.  Thiam, 50, received a 1 million-pound salary, 2 million
pounds in bonus and 4.4 million pounds in long-term incentives
for performance periods ending in Dec. 31, 2012, London-based
Prudential said April 5 in its annual report. The firm paid its
directors 35.2 million pounds last year compared with 31.4
million pounds in 2011, it said.  The Ivory Coast-born French national during the last week
of March became the first serving CEO of a  FTSE 100 (UKX)  company to
receive a public reprimand from the U.K. regulator for not
informing it of the insurer’s $35.5 billion bid for  AIA Group
Ltd. (1299)  early enough in 2010. Prudential was fined 30 million
pounds. The insurer, which competes with AIA selling life
insurance in Asia, has risen almost  90 percent  in London trading
since the deal failed three years ago as Thiam boosted sales,
profits and dividends.  The firm’s 2010 performance share plan will be paid in
full, Andrew Turnbull, chairman of Prudential’s remuneration
committee, wrote in the report.  Prudential’s operating profit rose 25 percent to 2.53
billion pounds in 2012, beating analyst estimates, on higher
earnings in Asian countries such as Indonesia, Singapore and
Malaysia. Thiam raised the company’s full-year dividend 16
percent to 29.19 pence a share. That’s 53 percent more than when
he joined the firm in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 