-- Iran Flight Halt Meant to Overcome Salafi Anger, Minister Says
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-04-08T14:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/iran-flight-halt-meant-to-overcome-salafi-anger-minister-says.html
Egypt ’s tourism minister said he
suspended passenger flights from  Iran  to try to overcome
objections at home to warming ties between the two nations.  Some in predominantly Sunni Egypt are uneasy over improving
relations between the regional powerhouses, which recently
renewed ties ruptured more than three decades ago.
Ultraconservative Sunni Salafis say the rapprochement will give
Iran an opportunity to spread its Shiite Muslim ideology in
Egypt.  Minister Hisham Zazou said the flights would be halted
temporarily so he could open a dialogue with the Salafis.  “It’s a chance for me as a minister to begin consultations
with political groups and parties, especially with Salafis who
opposed the decision” to renew the flights, Zazou said today in
a phone interview.  The Iranian agent organizing the flights said she had not
been notified of the decision, the state-run Iranian Student
News Agency reported.  The two countries severed ties in 1979 after the  Islamic
Revolution  and Egypt’s peace treaty with  Israel . Relations
between the arch-rivals have improved since Islamist President
Mohamed Mursi was elected in June, and their leaders exchanged
visits for the first time in decades.  One product of the new links was the starting of charter
flights from Iran in March. The arrival of the first tour group
over a week ago touched off Salafi condemnation, and Salafis
tried to storm an Iranian diplomat’s residence in Cairo over the
weekend, state-run Middle East News Agency reported. Egypt’s
Foreign Ministry denounced the attack today.  The halting of the flights following the Salafi outcry is
an attempt at “blackmail by the opposition,” Roghiyeh Hatami-
Pour, an official with the sole Iranian travel company
organizing the tours, was cited as saying by the Iranian
Students  News Agency .  She said she wasn’t informed about the suspension.  “We will continue our work of sending tours from Iran to
Egypt,” Hatami-Pour said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  