-- Mitsubishi UFJ to Buy $3.7 Billion of Property Loans
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2013-04-08T06:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/mitsubishi-ufj-to-buy-3-7-billion-of-property-loans.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) 
agreed to acquire about $3.7 billion of property loan assets
from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  to boost its commercial lending on the
U.S. East Coast.  Mitsubishi UFJ’s UnionBanCal Corp. unit will acquire a
commercial real estate lending portfolio from PB Capital Corp.,
a unit of the German bank, it said in a  statement  today. The
transaction is expected to be completed in the second quarter.  Japan ’s biggest bank, which had 218.8 trillion yen ($2.2
trillion) in total  assets  at the end of March, is  expanding 
abroad to counter anemic  demand  at home as European rivals scale
back to comply with tighter capital rules. The deal follows the
Tokyo-based lender’s 3.8 billion-pound ($5.8 billion)
acquisition of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s project
financing assets in  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa  in 2010.  “Given MUFG’s assets, the deal would be very small,” said
Shinichiro Nakamura, a Tokyo-based analyst at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. “Although the debt crisis has eased some, there
is still a trend that European banks are cutting overseas
assets. MUFG is looking for targets, but they’re struggling to
find good, big ones.”  Mitsubishi UFJ jumped 5.4 percent to 640 yen, closing at
the highest level since June 2009 in Tokyo. The benchmark  Nikkei
225 Stock Average (NKY)  rose 2.8 percent, lifted by a weakening yen.
The currency touched 98.85 per dollar, its lowest level since
June 2009.  U.S. Property  About 35 percent of the Deutsche Bank unit’s loan portfolio
is New York-based, according to today’s statement. Los Angeles
makes up 9 percent and Chicago 8 percent, it said.  Some Deutsche Bank sales staff would join UnionBanCal,
Japan’s Nikkei Newspaper reported earlier today, without citing
sources.  “It it wouldn’t be a bad purchase because the market for
commercial property in the U.S. is expected to grow from here,”
Nakamura said.  First-quarter U.S. office vacancies dropped to 17 percent
from 17.3 percent a year earlier and 17.1 percent in the fourth
quarter, according to property researcher  Reis Inc. (REIS)   Takashi Morimura, deputy president at its main banking
unit, said in an interview January, Mitsubishi UFJ is targeting
acquisitions in the U.S. beyond its 2008 takeover of UnionBanCal
and the purchase of Santa Barbara-based Pacific Capital Bancorp
last year.  Mitsubishi UFJ is also targeting loan growth in Asia,
sealing a 15.5 trillion-dong ($740 million) deal to buy a 20
percent stake in VietinBank in December. The bank has also
expressed interest in buying a stake in  Bank of Ayudhya Pcl (BAY)  from
General Electric Co.  The Japanese bank had 21.9 trillion yen of overseas loans
as of Dec. 31, a 20 percent jump from a year earlier, company
data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  