-- J.C. Penney Parts With Former Apple Executive Twiggs
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-04-08T20:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/j-c-penney-parts-with-former-apple-executive-twiggs.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  has parted ways with
another top marketing executive as declining sales threaten
Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson ’s overhaul of the
department-store chain.  Sissie Twiggs, who served as a vice president of media in
digital marketing, is no longer with the company, Joey Thomas, a
J.C. Penney spokesman, confirmed in an e-mail today. Twiggs
joined the Plano, Texas-based retailer in July after more than
16 years at  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s global advertising unit, according to a
profile on LinkedIn. Johnson came to J.C. Penney in November
2011 after running Apple’s stores.  The departure marks at least the fourth major change in
J.C. Penney’s marketing department in the past year.  Michael Francis  left as J.C. Penney’s merchandise and marketing chief in
June. Greg Clark departed as senior vice president of creative
marketing in October, and Lisa DeStefano-Orebaugh left her post
as vice president of strategic marketing for a job at Home Depot
Inc. last month.  Thomas declined to comment further on Twiggs’s departure.  Johnson’s first year at J.C. Penney hasn’t gone well, with
sales falling 25 percent to $13 billion, the lowest since at
least 1987. The shares have declined 50 percent from Nov. 1,
2011, the day Johnson took over as CEO. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index has gained 28 percent in that time. J.C. Penney gained
2.7 percent to $15.87 at the close in  New York .  Twiggs was one of at least nine executives who was
commuting to work at J.C. Penney’s headquarters in Texas via
plane ride, Bloomberg reported last month.  Twiggs wasn’t immediately able to be reached for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  