-- J&J, Pharmacyclic’s Pill Keeps Leukemia at Bay in Study
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-04-08T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/j-j-pharmacyclic-s-pill-keeps-leukemia-at-bay-in-study.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Pharmacyclics
Inc. (PCYC) ’s experimental medicine ibrutinib helps keep a hard-to-
treat form of the most common type of leukemia at bay for at
least a year, U.S. researchers said.  The study from the second of three phases needed to win
U.S. approval found one pill a day cut the amount of disease in
half in the lymph nodes for 95 percent of patients. All patients
saw their enlarged spleens shrink, while tumor cells in the bone
marrow fell 82 percent, according to the study presented at the
American Association for Cancer Research meeting in  Washington .  The findings suggest ibrutinib may already be the best
treatment for patients with a genetic defect that limits their
response to chemotherapy, said  Adrian Wiestner , head of the
Lymphoid Malignancies Section at the National Heart, Lung, and
Blood Institute’s hematology branch. The drug today was named a
breakthrough therapy by U.S. regulators for the treatment of
chronic lymphocytic leukemia in patients with the defect, known
as a deletion of chromosome 17p.  “The degree of tumor reduction achieved by one pill a day
is nothing short of surprising,” Wiestner said in a statement.
“The drug is effective against the disease in lymph nodes,
spleen and bone marrow. This is important because existing
therapies often fail to effectively eliminate cancer cells at
these tissue sites.”  Study Findings  The study included 53 patients with  chronic lymphocytic
leukemia , or CLL, who either had the genetic defect or were
older than 65, a group that typically can’t withstand the
aggressive treatment needed to control the disease. Researchers
found some patients had a 90 percent reduction in the amount of
disease in their lymph nodes after just two months of treatment.  One patient had progressive disease, and two patient deaths
were deemed unrelated to their drug treatment. The most common
side effects were diarrhea, fatigue and rash, occurring in fewer
than 13 percent of patients.  The study was funded by the National Institutes of Health’s
intramural research program.  CLL develops in about 16,000 people in the U.S. each year,
according to the American Cancer Society, making it the most
common type of leukemia. Ibrutinib works by inhibiting Bruton’s
tyrosine kinase, part of the pathway that helps the cancer take
hold and spread. The drug’s ability to blunt the activity and
proliferation of CLL was remarkable, Wiestner said.  The drug from Sunnyvale, California-based Pharmacyclics and
New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J is being studied alone and
in combination with other treatments for a range of blood
cancers. The therapy received breakthrough status in February
for two types of lymphomas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  