-- Japanese Stock Futures Rise on Bank of Japan Policy Optimism
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-04-08T23:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/japanese-stock-futures-rise-on-bank-of-japan-policy-optimism.html
Japanese stock futures rose,
indicating the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  will climb for a fifth
day, amid speculation  Bank of Japan (8301)  measures to fight deflation
will boost corporate profits.  American Depositary Receipts of Toyota Motor Corp., the
world’s largest carmaker, advanced 2.1 percent as the yen fell
to the weakest level since May 2009. Shares of  HTC Corp. (2498)  may be
active in Taipei after Taiwan’s largest smartphone maker posted
its lowest quarterly profit on record. ADRs of Woodside
Petroleum Ltd., Australia’s second-biggest oil producer, gained
0.4 percent as crude prices rose.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
June closed at 13,430 in Chicago yesterday, up from 13,210 at
the close in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at
13,410 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s
 S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  advanced 0.4 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index added 0.1 percent.  “The effects of the BOJ’s additional policy actions will
soon start to replace the policy actions themselves as the
market driver,”  Masayuki Kichikawa , chief economist in Tokyo at
Bank of America Corp., wrote in an e-mail. “Stronger-than-
expected leadership from Governor Haruhiko Kuroda has enhanced
the BOJ’s policy credibility.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average yesterday closed at the
highest level in 4 1/2 years as the yen weakened to its lowest
level against the dollar since June 2009, boosting the earnings
outlook for exporters.  BOJ Stimulus  BOJ officials said on April 4 the central bank will
increase its monthly bond purchases to 7.5 trillion yen ($76
billion), exceeding the 5.2 trillion yen forecast by economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. They also suspended a cap on some bond
holdings and dropped a limit on debt maturities, while also
setting a two-year horizon for their goal of 2 percent
inflation.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP) , the regional equities
benchmark, advanced the last five months as Japanese shares
increased on speculation the nation will deploy more stimulus
and amid signs the U.S. economy is recovering. That left the
gauge yesterday trading at 13.6 times average estimated earnings
compared with 14.1 for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and 12.3
times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1
percent. The measure gained 0.6 percent yesterday as investors
speculated first-quarter earnings for U.S. companies would help
equities rebound from their biggest weekly decline of the year.  North Korea  Rising military tensions with  North Korea  have driven the
cost of protecting against swings in a security tracking South
Korean stocks to the highest level on record compared with
emerging-market equities. Implied volatility, the key gauge of
option prices, for contracts closest to the iShares MSCI South
Korea Capped Index Fund  jumped  26 percent this month to 23.3,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s a record 41
percent more than the measure for the iShares MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 0.5 percent in New York
yesterday. Gauges of consumer and producer prices for the
world’s second-largest economy in March are scheduled to be
released today.  West Texas Intermediate crude oil futures rose 0.1 percent,
a second day of gains, amid clashes in  Nigeria  after talks
between Iran and world powers ended without agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  