-- Sliding Yen Drives Japan Gains From Trade to Consumers: Economy
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-04-08T06:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/japan-rebounds-to-current-account-surplus-as-yen-extends-slide.html
Japan  rebounded to a current-account
surplus and a measure of sentiment matched a record high as a
falling yen, rising stocks and stimulus bolster the outlook for
the world’s third-biggest economy.  The  surplus  in February, the first in four months, was
637.4 billion yen ($6.5 billion), the Ministry of Finance  said 
in Tokyo today. That exceeded the 457.5 billion yen median
estimate of  24 economists  surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The
Economy Watchers Survey of current conditions rose to 57.3 in
March, the cabinet office said today.  The Japanese currency fell today to the lowest level
against the dollar since June 2009 after  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor
Haruhiko Kuroda last week pledged to double the monetary base.
While a weaker currency helps exporters and boosts repatriated
earnings, the government may be on guard against excessive
declines swelling import costs and fueling trade tensions.  “It’s likely that the yen will depreciate further given
the BOJ’s unprecedented easing,” said  Yuichi Kodama , Tokyo-
based chief economist at Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co. “If
the yen weakens too much, that could turn out to be
problematic.”  The sentiment index, based on a survey of barbers, taxi
drivers and others who deal with consumers, matched the record
reached in 2006, when  Junichiro Koizumi  was prime minister.  The Japanese currency traded at 98.57 per dollar as of 3:41
p.m. in Tokyo after touching 98.85, the lowest since June 2009.
On March 14, Koichi Hamada, an adviser to Abe, said that a level
of 98 or 100 “would be good.” On Jan. 24, Yasutoshi Nishimura,
a deputy economy minister, said that while a yen at 100 wouldn’t
be a problem, a level of 110 to 120 would raise import costs.  In  Tokyo , Japanese Economy Minister Akira Amari declined to
comment today on whether the yen’s fall is too fast.  Hurting Exporters  In  Seoul , South Korean Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said
that the yen’s decline will hurt South Korean exporters
and the effects of Japan’s policies on Asian nations should be
discussed on the international stage. He added that he’d meet
with Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso in  Washington .  Economic releases elsewhere today will include  Germany ’s
February  industrial output . In  Australia ,  job advertisements 
fell in March and an  index  of builders’ profitability showed
that benefits from interest-rate cuts may be yet to kick in.  In Tokyo, the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  jumped 2.8 percent.  The Bank of Japan says it aims to lead the nation out of
nearly 15 years of deflation. Business and  consumer confidence 
is picking up because of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign to
pull the nation out of a post-asset-bubble malaise.  Growing Economy  Gross domestic product  rose an annualized 0.2 percent in
the fourth quarter of last year after two straight contractions.  “A weak currency will cause a permanent surplus in the
long run,”  Takuji Okubo , chief economist at Japan Macro
Advisors in Tokyo, formerly of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said
before today’s report. “After demand adjusts to the new
currency level, the export volume will rise and the import
volume will drop.”  In the current account data, the income surplus rose 13
percent to 1.4 trillion yen in February from a year earlier,
today’s data showed.  The BOJ plans to purchase 7.5 trillion yen of bonds a month
and double the monetary base, which includes cash in
circulation, in two years, the central bank said in Tokyo on
April 4. That exceeded economists’ median estimate of 5.2
trillion yen a month and is the biggest move since quantitative
easing began in 2001.  New Phase  The BOJ set a two-year horizon for its 2 percent price
target under a “new phase of monetary easing,” as the governor
won the backing of a board mostly appointed by the previous
government.  Yi Gang, head of  China ’s foreign-exchange regulator, said
in January that he’s concerned about the potential fallout from
expanded asset-purchase programs and near-zero  interest rates  in
the world’s advanced economies. South Korea’s Hyun said last
month that the yen is “flashing a red light” for his nation’s
exports.  In February, the Group of 20 nations refrained from
criticizing Japanese policies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  