-- Karzai Orders Probe Into Killing of 11 Children in Afghanistan
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-04-08T10:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/karzai-orders-probe-into-killing-of-11-children-in-afghanistan.html
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai 
ordered an investigation after a provincial official said 11
children died during a daylong battle between coalition forces
and Taliban fighters.  In a statement, the president’s office condemned the deaths
of the children, who local officials said were between two
months and seven years old, in the Shigel district of Kunar
province. Karzai sent a delegation to probe claims that they
died in a strike by U.S. aircraft. Seven Taliban militants,
including commanders, were reported killed in the fighting,
while four Afghan security personnel and five local women were
wounded.  U.S. troops called in air support after they and Afghan
forces came under fire late on April 5, provincial spokesman
Wasifullah Wasifi said in a phone interview today. A “U.S.
airstrike” was followed by “a severe gun battle” that lasted
for 24 hours, he said.  The airstrike targeted houses where three brothers and
their families lived, Wasifi said. All three were “famed
Taliban militants,” he said. Remote and mountainous Kunar lies
next to the country’s border with  Pakistan , a frontier across
which Taliban militants have found sanctuary.  Civilian casualties have become a significant stress point
in the relationship between Karzai and his international
backers. Karzai on Feb. 25 banned Afghan security forces from
requesting airstrikes by NATO planes during operations.  Major Adam Wojack, a spokesman for NATO’s  International
Security Assistance Force , said the Kunar support was requested
by coalition soldiers. He said one U.S. civilian also died in
the violence which capped a bloody weekend in the Afghan war.  Diplomat Killed  Five U.S. citizens, including two civilians, died in a
April 6 suicide car bomb attack by the Taliban on their road
convoy in southern  Afghanistan , the deadliest attack on
Americans in the country since July.  Anne Smedinghoff, a 25-year-old diplomat originally from
 Illinois , and a civilian interpreter for the Defense Department
were among victims of the blast in Zabul province, according to
the U.S. State Department and defense officials and ISAF. They
were killed while on their way to donate books to a school,
Secretary of State  John Kerry  said in the U.S. statement.  The attack took place hours after U.S. General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, landed in
Afghanistan in an unannounced visit to assess progress on local
security forces’ preparations for taking control as U.S.-led
international forces withdraw by the end of 2014, according to
U.S. Department of Defense website.  Afghan forces are taking over a greater security role
nationwide as the U.S. pulls its combat troops from a 12-year
war with the Taliban.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  