-- Killings Boost Vigilance as Public Officials Face Threats
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-04-08T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/killings-boost-vigilance-as-public-officials-face-threats.html
Connecticut Governor  Dan Malloy 
canceled a speaking event because of a security risk. An
assistant U.S. attorney in  Texas  withdrew from a case involving
white supremacists, and a city alderman in  Wisconsin  wants to
carry a concealed firearm to meetings.  They are taking steps to avoid becoming the next target
after a Texas district attorney and his assistant were shot to
death,  Colorado ’s prison chief was gunned down and a West
Virginia sheriff was killed while sitting in his car.
Authorities say there’s no direct connection among the slayings,
though investigators suspect white-supremacist groups in the
Texas and Colorado incidents.  “It appears to be retribution, and in some cases well-
organized and premeditated,” said Matthew Orwig, the former
U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Texas, which includes
the county where the prosecutor was killed. “Everyone still has
to do their jobs, but at the same time, everyone needs to be
more vigilant and be more aware.”  The U.S. has a history of political shootings, from the
assassinations of  Abraham Lincoln  and  John F. Kennedy  to the
2011 attack on Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , who survived.
The heightened awareness takes place as President  Barack Obama ,
Congress and U.S. states are debating gun-control measures after
the Dec. 14 massacre of 20 children and six educators at a
Connecticut elementary school.  ‘Avail Ourselves’  After the killings of the prison chief and prosecutors, the
Racine, Wisconsin, city council approved a measure to allow
elected officials to carry concealed firearms to meetings in
municipally owned buildings. Greg Helding, an alderman in the
city of 80,000 who pushed for the change, said the measure was
needed because the town hall doesn’t have metal detectors.  “You have to say no to people in ways that affect their
lives, whether its zoning changes or liquor licenses, and you
get a little concerned about it,” Helding said in a telephone
interview. “You don’t want to sound like you’re paranoid, but
at the same time, we should have the option to avail
ourselves.”  In February 2008, a 52-year-old gunman stormed a city
council meeting in Kirkwood,  Missouri , killing two police
officers, two council members and the public works director
before police shot him to death.  “There’s obviously isolated nut jobs,” Helding said.  Dangerous Settings  U.S. Senator  John Cornyn , a Texas Republican, sent a letter
April 3 to Attorney General Eric Holder asking that federal
prosecutors be allowed to carry concealed firearms to work.
Representative  Carolyn Maloney , a  New York  Democrat, said
April 3 that she’ll continue to press for a bill requiring gun
owners to have insurance after her staff fielded calls with
death threats.  “I take the threat of more gun violence very seriously,”
Maloney said in statement. “But it is not something that I will
allow to stop me from doing my work.”  Some public officials, such as Malloy, are avoiding
potentially dangerous situations. The Democratic governor was
scheduled to speak at an Autism Awareness Day gathering in the
Hartford statehouse April 3. He would have had to walk through a
crowd of pro-gun activists, hundreds of whom flooded the Capitol
ahead of a vote to ban assault-style weapons and large-capacity
ammunition magazines.  “When the governor’s security detail makes a decision on
an event, we don’t question that determination,” Andrew Doba, a
Malloy spokesman, said in an e-mail.  White Supremacists  Jay Hileman, an assistant U.S. attorney in Houston,
withdrew from a case prosecuting 34 defendants of the Aryan
Brotherhood after Kaufman County District Attorney Mike McLelland and his wife were found shot to death inside their
home March 30. McLelland, and his assistant Mark Hasse, who was
gunned down Jan.31, were part of the investigation into the
white-supremacist prison gang.  Richard Ely, a Houston attorney representing one of the 34
defendants, said Hileman told him in an e-mail that he was
withdrawing from the case for security reasons.  “He decided it needed to be done, and it was appropriate
as far as I’m concerned,” Ely said by telephone.  Hileman didn’t respond to a phone call seeking comment.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  is probing the Texas
killings. It’s too early to determine if any relationship exists
among the shooting there, the killing of the West Virginia
sheriff and the slaying of the Colorado prison chief, said Paul Bresson, an FBI spokesman.  Attorneys for James Holmes, accused of killing 12 people
in a Colorado movie theater in July, have said he’s mentally
ill. Jared Loughner, who is serving a life sentence for killing
six people and wounding 13, including Giffords, was diagnosed
with schizophrenia.  Mentally Ill  Some new gun-control laws, like one passed in New York, try
to keep the weapons away from the mentally ill. Mental health
practitioners in the Empire State are required to report
patients to  law enforcement  if they deem them a threat and the
state can remove firearms from their homes under the law
Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat, pushed through in January.  Orwig, the former U.S. attorney, said the recent killings
of public officials may mark the start of a new era.  “Whether this is the new normal and we’re entering an age
where it’s more dangerous than ever to be involved in law
enforcement, or if these killings are a confluence of events
that are unusual and won’t become part of a pattern, it’s too
soon to tell,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  