-- Kill the 30-Year Mortgage
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-08T22:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/kill-the-30-year-mortgage.html
After a devastating cycle of bubble
and bust, the U.S. housing sector is on the road to recovery.
New homes are being built at the fastest rate in years and
prices are increasing across the country. Foreclosures are down
and the number of “ underwater ” mortgages has declined by
almost 12 percent since the peak at the end of 2011. Even  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the mortgage-finance companies in
conservatorship since 2008, are reporting record profits.  What’s wrong with this picture? None of this would be
possible without massive government support. Today, the
government owns or guarantees about 90 percent of  new mortgages ,
up from about 50 percent in the mid-1990s. It isn’t sustainable,
let alone fiscally acceptable, for the U.S. to have such a
domineering presence in what should be a private-sector
function.  The housing recovery now under way creates a perfect
opportunity to plan for the future of U.S. mortgage markets.
Several recent innovations in mortgage finance by economists and
academics are worth considering.  First, it helps to understand the  origins  of today’s
situation. Before the New Deal, people bought houses by
borrowing for a few years at a time. They only paid interest
until the loans matured, at which point they would make a large
payment or refinance. That worked well enough until  house prices 
collapsed during the Great Depression. Lenders refused to
refinance, hoping to get paid in full. Many borrowers defaulted;
about 10 percent of homes ended up in foreclosure.  Downward Spiral  To prevent another downward spiral, the U.S. came up with
the self-amortizing, long-term, fixed-rate mortgage. It enticed
lenders into offering these products by promising to buy
mortgages that conformed to certain underwriting standards.
That’s where  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  come in: They bundle
loans into securities, then sell them to private investors. For
a fee, the government absorbs the risk of borrower default.  As long as house prices were relatively stable, the new
system worked. But once prices soared, only to collapse a few
years later, scores of homeowners defaulted. A cascade of
foreclosures further depressed prices as more houses were dumped
onto the market. Economists say this was responsible for  20
percent to 30 percent  of the decline in  home prices  from 2007
through 2009. It was the Great Depression all over again.  The biggest challenge going forward is separating the
choice to buy a house from the decision to make a leveraged bet
on housing prices. Right now, when a borrower puts down $50,000
to buy a $500,000 house, she doubles her equity if the value of
the house goes up to $550,000. The lender, however, has no claim
to any of that appreciation. Alternatively, if the price
declines to $400,000, the borrower is suddenly in the hole. She
has a strong incentive to default, leaving the lender in the
lurch.  Outside the U.S., floating-rate mortgages, where monthly
payments rise and fall with the short-term  interest rate , help
borrowers deal with some of this volatility. Interest rates
generally move in line with the health of the economy, so these
mortgages are more flexible for both borrowers and investors.
This approach effectively allows borrowers to refinance even if
they are underwater, yet it does nothing to reduce the risk of
default and foreclosure associated with negative equity.  The U.S. must figure out a way to better manage these risks
if it is to turn housing back over to the private sector.
Fortunately, economists have lots of ideas. The common theme is
that mortgage principal should be keyed to economic conditions,
and monthly payments should rise and fall proportionately. These
features ensure that borrowers have a stake in repaying their
loans, while also making it easier for them to do so when times
get tough.  Continuous Workouts  These new mortgages would also damp the swings in spending
that come from the wealth effect.  Robert Shiller , the Yale
University economics professor and co-founder of the widely used
Case-Shiller index of home prices, and colleagues have modeled a
few versions of a product called a “ continuous workout
mortgage .” In essence, the Shiller loans would allow borrowers
to pay higher interest rates upfront in exchange for the right
to lower principal and monthly payments when house prices go
down.  These loans might be right for some people, but we prefer
another idea: Mortgages with principal and monthly payments that
move with an index of neighborhood home prices. As prices rose,
so would monthly payments. Conversely, if prices fell, monthly
payments would, too. These might be more attractive to borrowers
since they wouldn’t have to pay higher rates upfront. Instead,
they would compensate lenders by passing on the gains from
house-price appreciation.  Borrowers would still have an incentive to maintain their
property because they would keep (or lose) any change in the
value of their house relative to the prices of their neighbors’
homes. Investors’ demand for these products would probably be
strong, given their  demonstrated eagerness  to gain exposure to
single-family house prices by buying them outright.  The government and the private sector have an interest in
this sort of financial innovation. Right now, investors have
little appetite for mortgages that lack government guarantees,
partly because they were  badly burned by misrepresentations  the
last time around. But if the U.S. ever hopes to reduce Fannie’s
and Freddie’s dominance in the marketplace, as its regulator,
the  Federal Housing Finance Agency ,  recommends , the country
needs to accept that the 30-year fixed loan -- a financial
product from our grandparents’ generation -- has outlived its
usefulness. We can create a better housing market by encouraging
the development of more resilient mortgages that don’t depend on
federal default insurance.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 