-- Krona Surge Aids Survival of Fittest, Swedish Export Lender Says
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-04-08T09:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/krona-surge-aids-survival-of-fittest-swedish-export-lender-says.html
The krona’s strength will help
discipline companies and poses little risk to the  economy  as a
whole as imports grow more affordable, the head of  Sweden ’s
state-owned export lender said.  “The Swedish export industry is good at being effective
and streamlining and in the long term that’s the right way to
go,” Peter Yngwe, head of Stockholm-based export credit
provider, SEK, said in an April 5 interview. “In the short term
it’s, of course, tough with a strengthening krona.”  Yngwe, whose company last year lent more than $9 billion to
support Swedish exports, joins Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves
and Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  in taking a hands-off
approach toward the  exchange rate . The krona is the best
performing currency over the past 12 months, gaining 6.3 percent
on a correlation-weighted basis against nine currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. It’s up about 5 percent against the euro in that
period, trading at 8.38 on April 5.  The krona emerged as a haven from Europe’s debt crisis in
2012 and this year has drawn investors amid projections Sweden’s
economy is rebounding from a drop in exports. Growth in the
largest Nordic economy slowed to 0.8 percent last year from 3.7
percent in 2011. The expansion will reach 1.3 percent this year
and 2.3 percent in 2014, Sweden’s National Institute of  Economic
Research  estimated on March 27.  The 17-member euro area will contract 0.3 percent this
year, the European Commission said on Feb. 22.  With exports accounting for half the $500 billion economy’s
output, limiting the krona’s gains has become a contentious
issue and made Sweden stand out. In Norway and Switzerland,
policy makers have deployed monetary policy to stem currency
gains.  Rate Difference  The central bank in February, after holding its key rate at
1 percent, forecast it won’t have to cut its main lending rate
again, citing signs of an improving economy. The  European
Central Bank  last week kept its key rate at a record low of 0.75
percent as President  Mario Draghi  signaled readiness to ease
policy if the economy deteriorates.  International banks such as Deutsche Bank AG,  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  and domestic lenders such as  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  all predict the
krona has further to gain. Henrik Gullberg, a currency
strategist at Deutsche Bank, said last week that the “valuation
won’t become an issue” until the krona reaches 7.75 to 8 per
euro, which he predicts is unlikely to happen until “sometime
in the second half of the year.”  “The krona is starting to return to a level where it was
before, so fundamentals support that it’s about at the right
level,” said Yngwe.  Moving Production  The Swedish krona appreciated 0.3 percent to 8.3561 against
the euro as of 11:35 a.m. Stockholm time, and strengthened 0.4
percent to 6.4246 against the  U.S. dollar .  Swedish exporters, including Europe’s biggest paper-tissue
maker,  Svenska Cellulosa AB (SCAB) , have complained about eroding
competitiveness. The appreciation will lead to plant closures
and companies moving production abroad, Sverker Martin-Loef,
chairman of Industrivaerden AB, told  Svenska Dagbladet  in an
April 3 interview. Industrivaerden holds stakes in companies
including  Ericsson AB (ERICB) , the world’s largest maker of mobile phone
networks, and Sandvik AB, the biggest maker of metal-cutting
tools.  According to SEK’s Yngwe, it’s not clear the krona’s ascent
will harm all industries.  “Of course, those companies more focused on raw materials,
forestry and mining are affected a lot by this, but the
processing industry not as much,” Yngwe said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  