-- Kuwait to Spend as Much as $17.5 Billion on 2013 Plan
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2013-04-08T12:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/kuwait-to-spend-as-much-as-17-5-billion-on-2013-plan.html
Kuwait plans to spend as much as 5
billion dinars ($17.5 billion) on its infrastructure-led state
development plan in the current fiscal year as bankers called on
the government to execute projects.  “Banks have excess liquidity and are looking for good
assets to invest in,”  Gulf Bank KSC (GBK)  Chief Executive Officer
Michel Accad said at a conference in Kuwait City today. “The
development plan hasn’t taken off as fast as expected so
opportunities aren’t as many as we wished. We just need to get
on with it, we need execution” of projects, he said.  Hamad Al-Marzouq, Chairman of  Ahli United Bank (ALMUTAHE)  and the
Kuwait Banking Association, said the impact of the development
plan on banks has so far been “very limited.” Kuwait lacks a
long-term strategic vision and “relying mainly on oil is really
quite dangerous,” he said. “The development plan was a
complete disaster and I really have doubts on the return of
investments on these projects.”  The $110 billion development plan was first approved by
parliament in February 2010. Corporate lending in  Kuwait  has
lagged its peers in the Gulf Cooperation Council as political
bickering stalled the plan’s implementation. Loans to private
businesses grew 4.8 percent in the year to February after
accelerating to 4.1 percent last year mainly due to a boost in
consumer loans, according to Kuwait central bank data.  Kuwaiti Growth  The plan to diversify its oil-reliant economy and modernize
the country includes boosting crude and gas production, building
a metro and rail network, new hospitals, roads, power stations,
expanding the airport and building a port on Boubyan Island.  Kuwait’s economy may grow between 4.5 percent and 5 percent
this year, Finance Minister Mustafa Al-Shimali told reporters
today. “We hope, yes,” Al-Shimali said when asked if the
government intends to speed up implementation of projects in the
plan this year. Kuwait has projected spending at about 21.5
billion dinars in the current fiscal year that started April 1.  The International Monetary Fund, meanwhile, said it has
revised down its real growth estimate for Kuwait in 2013 to 1.1
percent from 1.8 percent. “It comes from the base effect,
nothing happened in 2012, and 2011 was a surprise,” IMF Mission
Chief for Kuwait Ananthakrishnan Prasad told reporters. “Both
public and private investment did not take place.”  Burgan Bank (BURG)  SAK Chairman Majed Essa Al-Ajeel said the bank,
which in December acquired 99.3 percent of Istanbul-based
Eurobank Tekfen AS, has been forced to focus abroad due to a
lack of investment opportunities at home and “opportunities
from the development plan aren’t forthcoming.”  Kuwait, the fourth-biggest OPEC producer, posted its 13th
straight surplus in the 2011/2012 fiscal year, a record 13.2
billion dinars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  