-- Napoli Stays in Serie A Title Hunt; Atletico Slips Back in Spain
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-04-08T00:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/napoli-stays-in-serie-a-title-hunt-atletico-slips-back-in-spain.html
Napoli beat Genoa 2-0 to close the
gap to Italian Serie A soccer leader Juventus to nine points,
while nine-man  Atletico Madrid  lost ground on the top two in
Spain with a 0-0 draw at Getafe.  First-half goals by Goran Pandev and Blerim Dzemaili gave
Napoli the home win last night to open up a four-point cushion
on AC Milan. Defending champion Juventus leads with 71 points
with seven games remaining after Mirko Vucinic scored twice in a
2-1 win against Pescara two days ago.  Earlier yesterday, third-place AC Milan drew 2-2 at 10-man
Fiorentina, which scored late penalties through Adem Ljajic and
David Pizarro. Nenad Tomovic was red-carded six minutes before
halftime for elbowing Stephan El Shaarawy.  Inter Milan’s push for a place in next season’s  Champions
League  was checked by a 4-3 home loss to Atalanta in which it
blew a 3-1 lead with 29 minutes remaining. Sixth-place Inter has
50 points, two behind fourth-place Fiorentina.  In Spain, Atletico Madrid lost Mario Suarez and Diego Godin
to red cards in its scoreless draw at Getafe and now trails
local rival Real Madrid by three points with eight games left.  Two days ago, leader  Barcelona  beat Real Mallorca 5-0 and
Real Madrid defeated Levante 5-1. Barca has 78 points, Real 65
and Atletico 62.  Bayern Munich  clinched its 23rd German league championship
two days ago with a 1-0 victory at Eintracht Frankfurt. Bastian Schweinsteiger scored in the 52nd minute of Bayern’s 11th
straight win.  Borussia Dortmund , the title-winner for the past two years,
defeated Augsburg 4-2 to remain in second place, 20 points
behind Bayern.  Lyon Loses  In France, third-place Saint-Etienne defeated Evian 1-0
yesterday to move into third place ahead of Lyon, which lost 1-0
at Reims. Lille routed Lorient 5-0 last night.  In other weekend games, leader Paris Saint-Germain had a
2-0 win at Rennes to stay seven points ahead of second-place
Marseille, which beat Bordeaux 1-0.  In the Dutch league, Ajax kept a three-point lead atop the
standings after a 4-0 win against Heracles.  PSV Eindhoven  won
3-1 at Willem II and Vitesse Arnhem had a 3-0 victory against
 NAC Breda . Ajax has 63 points, with PSV and Vitesse on 60.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 