-- National Bank and Eurobank Fall as Merger Halted: Athens Mover
-- B y   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2013-04-08T09:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/national-bank-and-eurobank-fall-as-merger-halted-athens-mover.html
National Bank of Greece SA , the
country’s biggest lender, and  Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  both lost as
much as a record 30 percent of their value in Athens trading
after their plan for a merger was put on hold.  Eurobank fell 17 percent to 13 euro cents at 12:03 p.m.
local time, the lowest since April 1999, while National Bank
declined 30 percent to 36 cents, the most since September 1992.
Alpha Bank SA fell 7 percent and  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR)  dropped 11
percent.  National Bank and Eurobank will be recapitalized
separately, meaning their plan to merge has been halted,
according to separate company statements on the website of the
Athens Stock Exchange today. Both said they will hold
shareholder meetings tomorrow to decide on capital increases.  Greece ’s four biggest lenders need to raise 27.5 billion
euros ($35.8 billion) after suffering losses in the country’s
sovereign-debt restructuring last year. National Bank and
Eurobank need a total of 15.6 billion euros, according to a Bank
of Greece report released in December. The banks need to secure
10 percent of the common equity from private investors, with the
Hellenic Financial Stability Fund providing the remainder.  “We estimate that there will be inability to gather 10
percent private-sector participation, so this is the basic
assumption,” Konstantinos Manolopoulos, an analyst at
Investment Bank of Greece, said by telephone today. “It will
make no sense to invest in these two banks as investors will
suffer dilution without the upside potential of warrants.”  The country’s stability fund, or HFSF, may prepare to
recapitalize both banks if they are not able to raise set funds
from the private sector, an official from the country’s finance
ministry said yesterday. The HFSF will determine whether the
merger will continue if it becomes the main shareholder in the
two banks, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  