-- Navy to Seek More Money for Cost-Challenged Ship Programs
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-04-09T00:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/navy-to-seek-more-money-for-virginia-class-submarines.html
The U.S. Navy is seeking more money
for the Gerald R. Ford-class aircraft carrier dogged by rising
costs and sticking to its plan to buy four more troubled
Littoral Combat Ships, according to internal budget figures
obtained by Bloomberg News.  The service’s budget request for the fiscal year beginning
Oct. 1 also seeks $5.41 billion for the Virginia-class submarine
made jointly by  Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII)  and  General
Dynamics Corp. (GD) , a 27 percent increase from $4.25 billion this
year.  The Navy’s request is to be released tomorrow as part of
the Pentagon’s $526.6 billion  budget  plan.  It asks for $1.8 billion to fund the previously planned
procurement of four Littoral Combat Ships, built by  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Austal Ltd. (ASB)  teams, the same number funded in
the current fiscal year.  The price of the ship, which is intended to be a small,
speedy vessel for use in shallow waters close to shore, has
doubled since 2005 to $440 million apiece. A decision to
simultaneously build two versions will add to long-term
operating costs.  The Pentagon’s chief weapons tester has cited flaws with
the ship’s guns and questioned whether the LCS could carry on
its mission after being hit in combat. A classified Navy memo
last year called on the service to consider a ship with more
firepower after the first 24 are built.  Cost Ceiling  The Navy’s request includes $1.68 billion for continued
development and construction on the CVN-21 Ford-class aircraft
carrier program, more than doubling this year’s $781.7 million
request. Of that, $945 million would bankroll continued detailed
design and construction of the second Ford-class carrier, the
CVN-79 John F. Kennedy.  Debate about the carrier, built by Newport News, Virginia-
based Huntington Ingalls, will intensify this year because the
Navy will ask Congress to increase a cost ceiling imposed on the
first carrier in the fiscal 2007 defense authorization bill. The
ceiling, which allowed for increases to keep up with inflation,
is now $11.8 billion.  “We expect to spend $12.3 billion and, if I am capped at
$11.8 billion, that would obviously cause us some challenges,”
Rear Admiral Thomas Moore, the Navy’s program executive office
for aircraft carriers, told Bloomberg News in November.  “We are going to put a proposal before Congress,” Moore
said. “We can’t spend more than $11.8 billion on the ship right
now.”  Government Review  Senator John McCain of  Arizona , the senior Republican on
the Senate Armed Services Committee’s seapower subcommittee,
last year asked the U.S. Government Accountability Office to
review the Ford-class program’s cost, schedule and performance
status.  The increased funding request for the Virginia-class
submarine program would pay for two vessels in fiscal 2014 and
includes a $1.6 billion down payment Congress has approved for
two additional submarines in fiscal 2015.  Huntington Ingalls and General Dynamics also benefit from
$1.7 billion in the 2014 budget plan for one DDG-51 destroyer
Congress added last month as part of final negotiations on this
year’s funding request.  Requests for more submarine and destroyer money in the 2014
plan underscores the importance of a spending measure funding
the government through Sept. 30 that was passed by Congress last
month and signed by President  Barack Obama . Before that, the
Pentagon was operating under a continuing resolution that didn’t
contain added submarine or destroyer dollars.  Continuing Resolution  “The Navy’s inclusion of a second Virginia-class submarine
in fiscal 2014 follows through on Congress’ action,” Ronald O’Rourke, naval analyst for the nonpartisan Congressional
Research Service, said in an e-mail statement.  The Navy’s request will seek authority to enter into
another multiyear contract for as many as 10 additional
submarines. The current contract expires this year.  Babcock &
Wilcox Co. (BWC) , based in  Charlotte , North Carolina, makes the
submarine nuclear reactors.  Still, Pentagon funding may face additional across-the-
board reductions if automatic cuts known as sequestration stay
in place throughout fiscal 2014.  Lieutenant Courtney Hillson, a Navy spokeswoman, declined
to comment on details of the spending plan.  “Until the fiscal 2014 president’s budget request is
submitted to Congress later this week, and becomes part of
public record, all decisions are pre-decisional and it would be
inappropriate to discuss specific details,” Hillson said.  The Navy is “committed to working more efficiently and
cost-effectively in this resource-constrained environment,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  