-- Near-Normal Rain Seen Easing Worst N.Z. Drought in 30 Yrs
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-04-08T09:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/near-normal-rainfall-seen-easing-worst-n-z-drought-in-30-years.html
New Zealand, the world’s largest
dairy exporter, may receive near-normal rainfall through June,
potentially easing the most widespread drought in at least 30
years that’s driven milk-powder prices to a record.  “We’re getting to a wetter time of year on the  North
Island ,” Brett Mullan, principal scientist at the National
Institute of Water and  Atmospheric Research , said by phone from
Wellington today. “Things are looking a bit more positive,”  A drought across the entire North Island may cost NZ$2
billion ($1.7 billion) as the conditions threaten economic
growth, the government estimates, while boosting opportunities
for dairy exporters in the U.S.  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG) ,
the Auckland-based company that’s the world’s biggest dairy
shipper, said last month that growth in milk volumes may be
unchanged this year as the drought curbs production growth.  “You often get lows forming in the Tasman, and at least
one in April which gives us a good dump on the North Island,”
said Mullan, referring to low-pressure systems that can form
over the  Tasman Sea , which separates the country from  Australia .
“You really need better-than-normal  rainfall  to get back to
normal soil moisture.”  Whole-milk powder surged 92 percent this year to a record
$5,998 a metric ton on April 2, according to Fonterra. Class-III
milk futures have surged 7.3 percent on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange this month on expectations that buyers will seek to
import more from the U.S. as output in  New Zealand  slows.  ‘Better News’  Pasture-growth rates, which are below the historical norm
for this time of season, may continue to improve over the next
two weeks, NZX Agrifax, an agricultural data provider, said in a
note today. New Zealand’s North Island accounts for about 61
percent of  milk  production, Rabobank International estimates.  “It’s better news for farmers than what they’ve been going
through recently,” said John Droppert, industry analyst at
Melbourne-based  Dairy Australia . “Normal rainfall will help but
won’t completely alleviate the situation.”  Minister for Primary Industries Nathan Guy said on March 31
that “plenty more rain” was needed to help grass growth before
colder weather set in. Scattered rains, which had been forecast
when Guy spoke that day, wouldn’t be enough to break the drought,
according to a statement.  “With a bit more rain as we go into winter, and we’re
expecting above-normal temperatures, that will help keep the
grass growing later into the season,” Mullan said today.
Northern and central areas of New Zealand receive more rain over
winter than summer, according to the Auckland-based institute.
New Zealand’s winter runs from June to August.  Class-III futures for May delivery traded at $18.52 per 100
pounds in  Chicago  at 5:05 p.m. in  Singapore  after gaining 1
percent. The most-active intraday price touched $18.75 on April
3, the highest level since December.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  