-- Netherlands Seen by LEI Self-Sufficient in Food Without Imports
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-04-08T10:31:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/netherlands-seen-by-lei-self-sufficient-in-food-without-imports.html
The Netherlands, the world’s second-
largest agricultural exporter, would have enough food to feed
its population even without trade, according to a study by farm-
economy researcher Landbouw Economisch Instituut.  Every Dutch citizen would still have access to a varied
diet even if an “extraordinary crisis” were to halt all food
imports and exports, LEI, an affiliate of Wageningen University
located in  The Hague , wrote on its  website . Consumers would lack
imported foods such as rice and bananas, it said.  The Netherlands is the second-most-densely populated
country in the 27-nation European Union after Malta,  figures 
from EU statistics office Eurostat showed. The study will help
the Dutch Economy Ministry update its national food-supply
crisis-management handbook, according to LEI.  “It’s hardly conceivable that the Netherlands, in today’s
era of globalization and supranational cooperation, could ever
end up in such an autarkic situation,” LEI wrote. “This
assumption is, however, a good aid to explore the limits of
agricultural production in extraordinary crisis circumstances.”  A no-trade diet would include bread, potatoes, sugar,
legumes, vegetables, fruit, milk, meat and eggs, according to
the study. Dutch consumers would lack access to citrus fruit,
olive oil, coffee, tea and alcohol, it showed. Many citizens
would supplement their diets through vegetable plots, small-
scale brewing, hunting and fishing, LEI wrote.  The Dutch livestock industry would shrink without trade,
while arable farmers would have to change crops, the researcher
wrote. Without animal-feed imports, many pig and poultry
breeders would be forced to shut down and dairy farmers would
probably be limited to using fodder, the study showed.  A lack of exports would result in “tremendous” stocks of
meat and dairy products, according to the researcher. While most
adjustments in farm production would be market-driven, growing
enough rapeseed to replace the loss of vegetable-oil imports
would require government measures, LEI said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  