-- Nexans Takes Appeal Against Cable-Cartel Raids to Top EU Court
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-04-08T08:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/nexans-takes-appeal-against-cable-cartel-raids-to-top-eu-court.html
Nexans SA (NEX)  asked the European Union’s
top court to quash the EU competition regulator’s decision to
order antitrust raids that seized swathes of the cable
manufacturer’s documents.  The EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg should annul the
European Commission’s raids order “in so far as its geographic
scope was overly broad, insufficiently justified and
insufficiently precise,” Nexans said in its appeal, according
to a  summary  published in the EU’s Official Journal on April 6.
Alternatively, the court should send the case back for review to
the lower EU court, it said.  The EU General Court, the bloc’s second-highest tribunal,
partly annulled commission decisions from 2009 to raid Nexans
and  Prysmian SpA (PRY)  over their alleged roles in fixing prices for
undersea and underground high-voltage power cables, saying the
scope of its information-gathering was too wide. That ruling
shouldn’t have rejected Nexans’s bid to quash the raids, the
company said in its appeal to the EU’s top court.  Rulings by the court in such cases take about 15
months from the time of the appeal. The commission, the EU’s
antitrust watchdog, in 2011 sent formal complaints to as many as
nine companies, including  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , in the wake of its 2009
raids.  Prysmian outbid Paris-based Nexans in 2010 to buy Dutch
rival Draka Holding NV, creating the world’s biggest cable maker
in an effort to restore margins and counter competition from
South Korea.  The cases are: T-140/09, Prysmian, Prysmian Cavi and
Sistemi Energia v. Commission, T-135/09, Nexans France and
Nexans v. Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  