-- NFL, Ex-Players Get Initial Approval for Licensing Pact
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-04-08T19:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/nfl-ex-players-get-initial-approval-for-licensing-pact.html
The  National Football League  won
preliminary court approval of the settlement of a lawsuit
accusing it of failing to compensate former players for using
their likenesses in promotions.  The accord, which calls for the creation of a special
licensing agency to market those publicity rights and the
creation of a $42 million fund overseen by former players to aid
their peers, was approved today by U.S. District Judge Paul A. Magnuson in St. Paul,  Minnesota .  Magnuson’s approval was granted over the objections of some
of the ex-players who filed the 2009 case. Opponents include
Fred Dryer of the Los Angeles Rams, the  Minnesota Vikings ’ Jim Marshall and Dan Pastorini of the Houston Oilers.  “These players contend that the settlement is not
appropriate because it does not directly benefit them,” the
judge wrote, “ignoring the fact that the settlement in fact
directly benefits those in whose name the lawsuit was
purportedly brought: the players who toiled in obscurity and now
are destitute.”  Legal Costs  The accord’s opponents contended that distributing the bulk
of the settlement proceeds to the fund was only the second-best
use of the money. The league is also paying $8 million toward
defraying the plaintiffs’ legal costs and setting up the
licensing agency.  Among those named as initial members of the supervisory
panel for the fund and of the licensing agency created under the
accord is Pro Football Hall of Fame member  Jim Brown .  “For the first time in the history of the game, retired
players will be represented at the table,” he said in a joint
statement with other ex-players and their lawyers who lauded
today’s ruling.  Also serving on the initial panel are formerRam Jack Youngblood, ex-Dallas Cowboy Billy Joe Dupree and Irv Cross of
the  Philadelphia Eagles , according to the ruling.  Magnuson scheduled a final approval hearing for Sept. 19.
The bid for approval was filed on March 18.  Lawyer Michael Ciresi, who represented the objecting
players, didn’t immediately reply to an e-mailed request for
comment.  “The decision speaks for itself,” said NFL spokesman
 Brian McCarthy .  The case is Dryer v. National Football League, 09-cv-2182,
U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota ( St. Paul ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  