-- Norway Seeks Nibor Overhaul as Probe Fails to Disprove Rigging
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-04-08T13:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/norway-seeks-nibor-overhaul-as-probe-fails-to-disprove-rigging.html
Norway ’s financial watchdog
recommended an overhaul of practices shaping its benchmark
interbank rate, after the regulator said a probe couldn’t
disprove claims of manipulation.  The Financial Supervisory Authority’s decision follows an
investigation of the Norwegian interbank offered rate after
bankers outside the country claimed Nibor was being rigged
locally. Documents released by the central bank in January
revealed e-mailed complaints from traders around the world going
as far back as 2010, adding urgency to a probe that was started
in December.  “The Financial Supervisory Authority of Norway has found
no evidence of rigging, or attempted rigging, of Nibor, but
cannot disprove rigging either,” the financial regulator said
today on its website. “The Nibor framework should be
strengthened and made more robust to manipulation. It also needs
to be more transparent to allow for subsequent testing and
oversight.”  The Finance Ministry will review the FSA’s comments and
respond before “the summer,” it said on its website today.  In the correspondence released in January, a June 2010 e-
mail by a banker, whose name was blacked out, said Nibor fixings
“seem to bear no resemblance to market realities,” adding he
suspected “fixings that resembled market abuse.”  International Scrutiny  Interbank rates came under international scrutiny after
Barclays Plc was fined a record 290 million pounds ($444
million) in June for attempting to rig the London interbank
offered rate and Euribor. At least 12 banks including Deutsche
Bank AG are being investigated for manipulating Libor. Criticism
from lawmakers and the Bank of England forced the resignation of
Barclays’ top three executives, including Chief Executive
Officer Robert Diamond.  In Scandinavia,  Denmark  has conducted a probe of the
Copenhagen interbank offered rate amid speculation it was
manipulated during the financial crisis, while Sweden is also
reviewing its equivalent rate, Stibor.  Norway’s Finance Ministry asked the financial regulator in
December to check whether Nibor accurately reflects unsecured
loan rates between banks and whether fixings are sufficiently
robust. Nibor was linked to as much as 5.8 trillion kroner ($1
trillion) in derivatives in April 2010, according to central
bank documents.  More Oversight  Nibor, which is used as a benchmark for mortgage rates,
corporate bond yields and derivative contracts, is calculated as
an average of rates published by a panel of banks for various
maturities, excluding low and high quotes, according to Finance
Norway, which represents banks in the country. The panel is made
up of  DNB ASA (DNB) ,  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) , Nordea
Bank Norge ASA, SEB AB and  Swedbank AB. (SWEDA)   “The responsibilities of Finance Norway and the Nibor
panel banks must be clarified,” the FSA said. “The calculation
of Nibor will be subject to increased attention and monitoring
going forward, in part through the FSAN’s supervision of the
Nibor panel banks.”  The regulator also called for requirements on the panel
banks concerning publication, documentation, record-keeping and
controls with respect to quotes and underlying assessments
should be established. It urged Finance Norway to establish a
supervisory body and an investigatory body.  In a separate letter dated March 20 and published today,
Norges Bank informed the FSA that it backed further
clarification of Nibor rules to avoid conflicts of interest in
banks contributing to the rate.  Norges Bank won’t have a role in the actual calculation of
Nibor or its supervision. “Involving the bank could generate
uncertainty as to its role as the central bank,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  