-- NYC Temperatures to Pass 70 for First Time in 6 Months
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-04-08T16:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/nyc-temperatures-to-pass-70-for-first-time-in-6-months.html
New York  City temperatures are
expected to rise above 70 degrees this week for the first time
since October as a cooler-than-normal weather pattern breaks,
starting the transition to springlike temperatures.  New York’s  Central Park  may reach 78 degrees Fahrenheit (26
Celsius) tomorrow, 19 above normal, and 76 the next day, while
Philadelphia may see temperatures as much as 20 degrees above
normal, according to  AccuWeather Inc .  Boston  is forecast to have
a high of 68.  April is the start of a transition to warmer weather, when
more energy is used to cool, rather than heat homes. Last year’s
spring was the warmest on record in the U.S. Temperatures will
be on the rise this week and may fluctuate thereafter, as a
clash of cold and warm fronts threatens to send cooler air to
the North.  “There’s going to be a battle between colder temperatures
to the north and warmer temperatures to the south, which is very
typical for this time of year,” Rob Carolan, founder of
Hometown Forecast Services Inc. in Nashua,  New Hampshire , said
by phone. “The East has been cooler than normal but it looks
like the pattern is breaking and warmer temperatures may be
occurring on a more regular basis.”  Temperatures may reach the mid-80s in  Washington  by April
10. The next day, “it gets tricky and the cooler weather starts
to return,” said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather
Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Cold Fronts  Cold fronts heading east from the Southwest and south from
 New England  may hit the East Coast as early as April 11,
bringing lower-than-normal temperatures through the weekend.
Thunderstorms may also spread across the nation as a storm
system emerges from the Rocky Mountains.  Temperatures in Boston may fall to as low as 36 degrees on
April 12, while New York and Washington may have low of 41
degrees, AccuWeather said. Philadelphia is expected to range
from 44 degrees to 63 degrees on that day.  “It’s the combination of cold fronts that will hit us --
one working down from New England, one sweeping east from the
plains -- that makes the entire Northeast turn cooler,”  Paul
Walker , senior meteorologist at AccuWeather, said by phone from
 State College ,  Pennsylvania .  Spring Season  The national average temperature for the U.S. spring of
2012 was 57.1 degrees, 5.2 degrees above the long-term average
and 2 degrees warmer than the previous mark set in 1910,
according to the  National Climatic Data Center .  This year’s spring has been cooler than normal and is
expected to continue trending that way through the season, with
fluctuations in temperatures lasting through May, Walker said.  “We’ll go back and forth where we get spells of warm
weather,” he said. “Then spouts of cold weather will return.”  Following this weekend’s cooldown, warmer weather is
forecast to return by the middle of next week, with the
potential for 80-degree temperatures in the mid-Atlantic region.  On April 17,  New York City  may see a high of 67 degrees,
while Washington can expect 75 and Philadelphia may reach 71.  Energy prices may be affected if humidity is high enough
that people begin turning on air conditioning, Rogers said.  “The dew point should be comfortable in New York but looks
like it’s going to inch up in D.C. and Philadelphia,” Rogers
said. “That will add discomfort and enhance demand, at least
for a day or two.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  