-- Occidental Says No ‘Fight at Top’ to Replace CEO
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-04-08T20:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/occidental-says-no-fight-at-top-to-replace-ceo.html
Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) , the
largest oil producer in the continental U.S., said Chairman Ray Irani played no role in the decision to find a replacement for
Chief Executive Officer Stephen Chazen less than two years after
he took over.  Irani wasn’t involved in the unanimous decision by the
company’s independent directors in February to find a new CEO,
Los Angeles-based Occidental said in a statement today. The
company also said its business strategy remains unchanged,
suggesting directors are against spinning off or selling assets
such as the chemical business or overseas oilfields, said  Leo Mariani , an RBC Capital Markets LLC analyst.  Occidental lost almost one-fifth of its market value in
2012 as costs escalated and production growth lagged
expectations. Today’s statement failed to calm investors’
concern about a power struggle in the corporate boardroom that
may be delaying efforts to boost the stock price, said David Neuhauser, a managing director at Livermore Partners Inc.  “That statement is a complete fabrication because every
investor knows there’s definitely infighting at the top,”
Neuhauser said in a telephone interview. “It’s troubling
because shareholders know there is so much more value in this
company that has yet to be unlocked.”  In today’s statement, Irani, 78, reiterated plans to retire
at the end of next year. “There were no schisms, nor
philosophical divisions in the directors’ decision” to replace
the CEO, the company said.  Shareholders’ Meeting  Irani needs to leave by the May 3 annual shareholders’
meeting to dispel concern that he’s attempting to reassert
control over the company he led for two decades, Neuhauser said.  “It sounds like Irani is trying to push his way back into
the situation at the top,” said Neuhauser, whose Northbrook,
Illinois-based firm owns Occidental shares among the $100
million it has under management. “The board needs to do
something in the very short run to make it crystal clear who’s
in charge.”  In an April 5 letter to the board, shareholder First
Pacific Advisors LLC urged the company to end its CEO search,
keep Chazen in the job and have Irani retire immediately.  The board hasn’t set a deadline or timetable for
indentifying the next CEO, Melissa Schoeb, an Occidental
spokeswoman, said in a separate e-mailed statement today.  Irani stepped down as CEO in 2011 and agreed to retire from
his role as chairman in 2014 amid shareholder unrest over his
compensation, which was more than $200 million in the past four
years, including in 2011 and 2012 after he was no longer chief
executive, according to proxy filings.  After Irani handed Chazen the reins, Occidental shares
declined in both 2011 and 2012, the first time shares have
fallen in back-to-back years since 1992, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Occidental declined for the first time in eight trading
sessions, falling 0.9 percent to $81.12 at the close in  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  