-- Homex Jumps as Government Expands Guarantees: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-04-08T22:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/homex-jumps-as-government-expands-guarantees-mexico-city-mover.html
Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*) ,  Mexico ’s
biggest homebuilder, rose the most in a month after the
government indicated it may expand a loan-guarantee program for
companies in the industry.  Homex jumped 3.9 percent to 18.48 pesos at the close in
Mexico City, the biggest advance since March 6, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Habita index  of six Mexican
homebuilders surged 3 percent, also the biggest increase since
March 6 on a closing basis, paring the index’s loss this year to
36 percent.  Mexico may expand a homebuilder loan-guarantee program
announced in March, Jorge Carlos Ramirez, minister of urban,
agrarian and territorial development, said at a press conference
on April 5, according to an e-mailed statement. The country had
said when the program was unveiled March 6 that it would cover
as much as 30 percent of banks’ losses on loans to homebuilders
in a bid to reduce concern about their financing.  Investors are “are seeing it as somewhat positive,”  Aldo Miranda, a trader with Intercam Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City,
said in a telephone interview. The program “still needs to be
implemented and business models still need to changed.”  Mexican homebuilders have tumbled this year on concern the
government’s shift to promote capital-intensive apartment
construction over single-family dwellings may whittle the
companies’ cash holdings.  Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB (URBI*) , which had fallen 63 percent
this year through yesterday, rose 5 percent today to 3.17 pesos.  The country said March 6 that the mortgage development bank
known as Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal will offer guarantees to
commercial banks to boost lending for housing by as much 50
percent. Under the program, Mexican homebuilders with “healthy
balance sheets” will have access to additional funding of as
much as 15 billion pesos ($1.2 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  