-- Toomey-Manchin Said to Seek Background Check Compromise
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-04-08T16:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/toomey-manchin-said-to-seek-background-check-compromise.html
A Democratic proponent of expanded
background checks for gun purchasers is seeking a compromise
with Republican Senator  Pat Toomey  of Pennsylvania, according to
Senate aides.  Democratic Senator  Joe Manchin  of West Virginia and Toomey
began talks last week last week after discussions stalled
between  New York  Democrat  Charles Schumer  and Oklahoma
Republican  Tom Coburn , said two Senate aides who asked for
anonymity to describe the private discussions.  President  Barack Obama  is pressuring Congress to enact
tougher gun-control measures four months after the shooting that
killed 20 school children and six adults in Newtown,
Connecticut. Obama plans to speak in the state tonight, and 11
relatives of Newtown victims will fly to Washington with him on
Air Force One, a White House official said. The family members
plan to urge members of Congress to pass gun legislation.  Connecticut  lawmakers enacted one of the nation’s toughest
gun laws last week. It bans semi-automatic weapons like the one
used in the Newtown shooting and expands background checks.  The plan being discussed by Manchin and Toomey would
require background checks for almost all purchases, with
exceptions for transfers between close family members and for
some loans of weapons between hunters, one Senate aide said.  The background check plan would be part of a package of
gun-safety legislation that includes anti-trafficking and
school-safety measures. The full Senate is likely to consider
the measure next week.  2012 Election  Coburn, who objected to a paperwork requirement related to
background checks, comes from a solidly Republican state. Toomey
faces re-election in 2016 in Pennsylvania, which backed Obama in
last year’s presidential election. Manchin was endorsed by the
 National Rifle Association  in the past and his state was won by
the Republican presidential candidate in the last four
elections.  CeaseFirePA, a Pennsylvania gun-safety advocacy group, said
last week that Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter and the state’s
former Democratic governor, Edward Rendell, will attend a rally
tomorrow outside Toomey’s Philadelphia office to urge action on
legislation.  Federal law has required background checks for all
commercial sales since 1993, though there is no requirement for
private sales or sales between individuals at gun shows.  Any deal on background checks would give Obama a symbolic
victory after much of the gun agenda he proposed in January
after the Newtown shootings has been scaled back.  The NRA, the nation’s biggest lobby for gun owners and
manufacturers with $219 million in revenue, has used its
influence with Congress to throw up hurdles to legislation.  The centerpiece of the president’s plan, a ban on assault
weapons and high-capacity ammunition magazines, will be offered
as an amendment that stands almost no chance of passing the
Senate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in  Washington  at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  