-- Oracle Free-Speech Appeal Delays HP Itanium Server Trial
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-04-08T21:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/oracle-free-speech-appeal-delays-hp-itanium-server-trial.html
A trial in  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s
dispute with Oracle Corp. over software support for servers
running  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s Itanium microprocessors will be delayed
while Oracle appeals a ruling on a motion in the case.  The second phase of a trial was set to begin this week to
determine whether Oracle breached the contract at issue, and if
so, what amount Hewlett-Packard should be awarded in damages.
That proceeding was put on hold after Oracle today challenged a
decision by a state judge in San Jose,  California , that it was
late in filing a claim that Hewlett-Packard was violating its
free-speech rights.  In the trial’s first phase, Superior Court Judge James Kleinberg agreed with Hewlett-Packard that Oracle made a
commitment to develop software supporting servers that run on
Itanium chips, under an agreement the companies reached over
Mark Hurd’s transition from chief executive officer of Hewlett-
Packard to co-president of Oracle.  “Oracle breached its contractual commitment to HP and
ignored its repeated promises of support to our shared customers
for the purpose of driving hardware sales from Itanium to Sun
servers,” Palo Alto, California-based Hewlett-Packard said
today in an e-mailed statement. “It is therefore not surprising
that Oracle would make every attempt to postpone the trial and
extend the uncertainty in the marketplace.”  Never Agreed  Oracle, based in Redwood City, California, acquired Sun
Microsystems Inc. in 2010. The company argued in the first phase
of the case that it never agreed to forfeit control over what
software it can develop and what price it can charge. Oracle
spokeswoman  Deborah Hellinger  declined to comment on the appeal.  In September, in response to Kleinberg’s ruling, Oracle
said it would continue to develop software for computers that
run on the Itanium microprocessors.  Oracle filed a motion to throw out the case based on free-
speech claims and filed an immediate appeal when the trial court
decided the motion was untimely. A state appeals court must now
rule on that question before the trial can proceed.  Before the trial, Hewlett-Packard said it was seeking about
$500 million in damages, according to a person familiar with the
matter who didn’t want to be identified because the damages
request is confidential.  The case is Hewlett-Packard Co. v.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , 11-cv-
203163, California Superior Court, Santa Clara County (San
Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Blumberg at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net  