-- Pakistan Vets Politicians With Koran Recitals as Poll Approaches
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-04-08T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/pakistan-vets-politicians-with-koran-recitals-as-poll-approaches.html
Pakistani politicians are facing
unprecedented scrutiny ahead of next month’s elections with poll
officials asking them to recite Koranic verses and prove the
authenticity of college qualifications in order to contest.  In a process that has drawn criticism of the independent
 Election Commission , returning officers in each constituency,
many of them members of the judiciary or civil servants, have
been told to weed out potential candidates not of “integrity
and honesty,” or who fail to display a decent knowledge of
Islam. Both are required by constitutional clauses drawn up by a
military dictator yet never before applied.  Among those rejected for the May 11 ballot to the 342-
member lower house is a newspaper columnist and lawmaker in the
parliament dissolved last month who allegedly praised the
quality of the alcohol served at a deceased friend’s home in
Pakistan, where drinking liquor is illegal for Muslims. Local
media, including the Dawn newspaper, have published accounts and
photographs of candidates being asked to quote from memory holy
scripture in order to prove their religious credentials.  “The candidates should have adequate knowledge of Islam,”
Ishtiaq Ahmad Khan, secretary of the Election Commission, said
April 5 in Islamabad. “The officers are asking these questions
because it is required by the law.”  The drive is being led by Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, who told the judiciary last week that those taking
part in election duty must ensure candidates fulfill the
constitutional requirements of being upright citizens and
adhering to the nation’s Islamic ideology. Disenchantment with
elected representatives runs deep in  Pakistan , with about 70
percent of 18-29 year olds surveyed by the British Council this
month having an unfavorable view of political parties.  Appeal Tribunals  The  Election Commission  has formed nine tribunals, headed
by high court judges, to hear appeals against the decisions of
the returning officers, according to its website. They have to
rule by April 17. A final list of candidates, out of the 8,072
who filed nomination papers, will be released April 19.  At the center of the tussle are two sections of the
constitution adopted decades ago yet which have never before
been used ahead of elections. Articles 62 and 63 were introduced
by former military Zia-ul-Haq, who died in an  airplane crash  in
1988, as part of his campaign to make Pakistan a more overtly
Islamic country. They state that candidates should be
“sagacious, righteous and non-profligate, honest and ameen,”
or faithful.  Zohra Yusuf, chairwoman of the independent Human Rights
Commission of Pakistan, said the clauses provide a poor guide to
a candidate’s religious beliefs, and are not being applied
impartially.  ‘Witch-Hunt’  “This is the first time this is being used in this way,”
Yusuf said in a phone interview yesterday. “It has really
become more like a witch-hunt.” Voters alone should be allowed
to decide who they want in parliament, she said.  Among those so far rejected are Raja Pervez Ashraf, the
prime minister of the outgoing government, who was disqualified
for alleged corruption, charges the nation’s top graft fighting
body had earlier said could not be sustained based on available
evidence.  Ayaz Amir, the columnist barred for alluding to drinking in
a newspaper article, vowed to challenge his disqualification.
“This whole process is absurd and ridiculous,” he said in an
April 5 interview.  Former military dictator  Pervez Musharraf , who returned
from exile last month, was prevented from standing in three
constituencies while being approved to run in a fourth.  The May election will mark a landmark for civilian rule in
Pakistan after the coalition government led by President Asif Ali Zardari’s  Pakistan Peoples Party  became the first elected
administration to complete its five-year term and prepare to
transfer power through a ballot.  Cleric March  Chaudhry, who was ousted as chief justice by Musharraf in
2007 and reappointed by Zardari two years later, has been
criticized by lawyers including Asma Jehangir, former chief of
the country’s human rights commission, for what they called
politically motivated actions.  In April last year, his court ousted Yousuf Raza Gilani as
prime minister after he refused to seek the reopening of Swiss
corruption investigations that had implicated Zardari. It then
issued an arrest warrant for Gilani’s successor, Ashraf, amid a
major march on Islamabad by a popular cleric demanding changes
to election laws.  “The future of the nation depends upon the outcome of the
electoral process and the election of more capable and better
candidates to represent the nation,” Chaudhry told the
judiciary April 7 in an address posted on the  Supreme Court ’s
website. “You must meet the expectations of the public in
general and judiciary in specific and utilize all your abilities
to ensure transparent elections.”  Fake Degrees  Mudassar Rizvi, chief executive officer of the Free and
Fair Election Network, a coalition of 30 non-governmental
organizations that’s observing preparations for the polls, said
that vetting officers were compromising the fair selection of
candidates.  “Any effort to influence the process by any other
institution than the Election Commission is interference in the
electoral process,” he said in a phone interview in Islamabad
yesterday, referring to the chief justice’s intervention.  More than 100 lawmakers in the previous parliament were
required to verify their educational qualifications after
allegations they faked certificates to fulfill a law compelling
candidates to hold at least a bachelor’s degree, according to
Chaudhry. The requirement has since been scrapped.  The Election Commission April 7 ruled that degrees held by
11 former lawmakers weren’t authentic and ordered criminal
proceedings, according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  