-- Pakistan’s Top Court Summons Musharraf for Treason Hearing
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-04-08T08:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/pakistan-s-supreme-court-to-consider-musharraf-treason-petitions.html
Pakistan’s top court ordered former
military ruler  Pervez Musharraf  to appear before judges tomorrow
as they consider petitions seeking to prosecute the ex-general
for treason, just weeks before he attempts a political comeback
at a general election.  A two-member bench headed by Supreme Court Justice Jawwad
S. Khawaja ordered Musharraf be summoned, Hamid Khan, a lawyer
representing one of the petitioners, told reporters after
today’s proceedings. The pleas aim to put Musharraf on trial
over his decision to impose emergency rule in 2007. Pakistan’s
Chief Justice Iftikhar Chaudhry was deposed and kept under house
arrest after Musharraf suspended the constitution.  A trial may reignite tension between the judiciary and the
army in a country where generals behind three coups have never
been punished before the law.  “Musharraf’s acts of 2007 have already been declared
unconstitutional by the courts,” Taufiq Asif, a lawyer who has
filed one of the petitions, said by phone yesterday. “He is
guilty of high treason and must be arrested.”  The former military commando quit the president’s office in
2008 after  Pakistan ’s parliament threatened to bring impeachment
charges against him, citing the illegal seizure of power the
year before and alleged economic mismanagement.  Musharraf left Pakistan and only returned from exile last
month, vowing to contest the May 11 ballot at the head of his
All Pakistan Muslim League party. Officials in one of the four
constituencies he planned to fight yesterday approved his
candidacy.  1999 Coup  Asif Ali Zardari, who succeeded Musharraf as president,
last month led the first civilian administration in the nation’s
history to complete its full term and prepare to hand over power
to another elected government through a poll.  Musharraf ousted the government of Prime Minister  Nawaz
Sharif  in a 1999 bloodless coup after a dispute over support for
Pakistan-backed militants occupying Indian-controlled territory
in the Kargil region of Kashmir. He became a U.S. ally in the
fight against al-Qaeda and Taliban militants after the Sept. 11,
2001 attacks on  Washington  and  New York .  Prior to his March return to Pakistan, Musharraf’s party
secured a bail agreement to prevent his arrest on charges of
illegally detaining judges and failing to provide adequate
security for Zardari’s spouse and former Prime Minister  Benazir
Bhutto  before her 2007 assassination.  While election officials rejected Musharraf’s nomination
papers to contest from Karachi, Kasur district and the capital
Islamabad, he has been allowed to compete from the northwestern
district of Chitral, the Geo television channel reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  