-- Malaysia’s Palm Oil Reserves Seen Dropping Most in Two Years
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-04-08T10:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/palm-oil-stockpiles-in-malaysia-seen-declining-most-in-two-years.html
Palm oil stockpiles in  Malaysia 
probably fell the most in more than two years in March as
exports from the world’s second-largest producer increased for
the first time in five months. Futures gained.  Inventories declined 7 percent to 2.27 million metric tons
from February, the steepest monthly drop since January 2011, the
median of estimates from two plantation companies and four
analysts showed. Output gained 2.3 percent to 1.33 million tons,
while  exports  rose 2.1 percent to 1.43 million, the survey
showed. Official data are due for release on April 10.  A decline in inventories for a third month may help stem a
33 percent slump in prices in the past year of the commodity
used in everything from biofuels to candy to noodles. Futures
may climb through May, trading between 2,400 ringgit ($785) and
2,700 ringgit a ton as Malaysia’s currency weakens before
elections and inventories drop in Indonesia and Malaysia, the
top producers,  Dorab Mistry , a director at Godrej International
Ltd., said March 22.  The fall in stockpiles “should be positive for prices,”
said Arhnue Tan, an analyst at Alliance Investment Bank Bhd.
“The decline in stockpiles could be mild because the exports
numbers have not turned out to be very strong. So it will just
be mild decreases over the next few months.”  The contract for delivery in June advanced 1.7 percent to
2,400 ringgit a ton on the Bursa Malaysia Derivatives, the
highest price at close for most-active futures since March 28.  Rising Use  Exports may gain for the first time since October and will
be 7.5 percent more than a year ago, according to the survey.
Shipments rose 5.5 percent to 1.37 million tons last month from
February, according to Societe Generale de Surveillance.  Palm oil’s use is poised to rise at an above-average pace
in the six months through September on a price discount to other
oils and fats amid expected record production, Oil World said
April 2. Global production is forecast to climb 7 percent to
55.7 million tons in 2012-2013, the Hamburg-based researcher
said. That compares with reduced availability for alternative
oils in the six months ended last month, it said.  Palm’s  discount  to soybean oil was at $302.74 a ton today,
higher than the five-year average of about $186, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Palm and soybean oils are
substitutes in food and fuel.  Global stockpiles will gain to a record 7.385 million tons
this season, according to a projection from the  U.S. Department
of Agriculture . All-time high world production of 53.8 million
tons will outpace demand of 52.4 million tons, the agency
forecasts.  A  bear market  is set to deepen after August as futures drop
below 2,000 ringgit once the low output season is over,
according to Mistry. Output is typically lowest in the first two
months of the year though it’s produced through the year.  Production probably climbed 9.9 percent in March from a
year earlier, according to Bloomberg calculations based on the
survey and data from the Malaysian Palm Oil Board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  