-- Pangang Group Summons Blocked in U.S. Trade Secrets Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-04-08T22:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/pangang-group-summons-blocked-in-u-s-trade-secrets-case.html
China ’s Pangang Group Co., facing
criminal allegations by the U.S. that it conspired to steal
secrets about titanium dioxide technology from  DuPont Co. (DD) , won a
court ruling that prosecutors failed to serve a summons.  U.S. District Judge Jeffrey S. White in San Francisco
rejected prosecutors’ arguments that they had properly served
the company and three of its units with court papers.  “The  United States  has still not met its burden to show it
has satisfied the delivery requirement,” White said today in an
11-page ruling.  Pangang runs the largest titanium complex in China and is
one of the country’s biggest titanium pigment producers,
according to its website.  Pangang, a  California  businessman and two former DuPont
employees were charged last year with conspiring to steal
information about chloride-route titanium dioxide, a white
pigment used in paint, plastics and paper.  The U.S. defendants sold the confidential information to
Pangang so it could develop a large-scale factory in Chongqing,
prosecutors alleged. DuPont, based in Wilmington, Delaware, is
the world’s largest manufacturer of titanium dioxide, and won’t
sell or license its technology to Chinese companies.  The U.S. encountered difficulty delivering notice of the
charges to the corporate defendants, leading the court to
initially quash service against them last year.  White ruled today that prosecutors still haven’t fulfilled
legal requirements.  The judge directed prosecutors and the defendants to appear
in court on April 18 to address how they intend to proceed.  The case is U.S. v. Liew, 11-cr-00573, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  