-- Patrizia Buys GBW in Deal Valuing Company at $3.3 Billion
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-04-08T16:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/patrizia-buys-bayernlb-s-3-2-billion-german-homes-unit.html
Patrizia Immobilien AG (P1Z)  agreed to buy
Bayerische Landesbank’s  GBW (GWB)  AG unit in a transaction that values
the residential landlord at 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion)
including debt. The deal would be the largest in Germany’s
property market in five years.  Patrizia will lead a group of insurers, pension funds and
savings banks from German-speaking countries to buy BayernLB’s
92 percent stake in GBW, Patrizia said in a statement today. The
Augsburg, Germany-based real estate asset manager will pay 882
million euros excluding assumed debt.  The acquisition would enable Patrizia to achieve its goal
of managing 10 billion euros of properties by 2015 from about
7.5 billion euros now. Most of the real estate is in Germany,
though the company’s also buying in Scandinavia and the U.K.
Last year, Patrizia led a group that bought apartments valued at
1.4 billion euros from Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg, in the
biggest German property transaction of 2012.  “For Patrizia, the acquisition is important because it
increases their fee flow,” said  Georg Kanders , an analyst at
Bankhaus Lampe KG. “The stock has room to climb a little bit.”  Patrizia was up 48 cents, or 6.7 percent, at 7.62 euros at
the 5:30 p.m. close in  Frankfurt , the most since July. The
shares have climbed 57 percent in the past six months.  Competing Bidders  The European Union required BayernLB to sell its stake in
GBW by the end of 2013 after it received state aid in 2008. The
auction attracted investors because GBW has well-maintained
properties in Bavarian cities including Munich, where  home
prices  are climbing.  Munich home prices rose 14 percent in 2012, according to
data compiled by ImmobilienScout24. German real estate is
drawing investors who are seeking a safe place to put their
money amid  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Patrizia raised cash from one Swiss institutional investor
and 26 German funds, including Sparkassen Versicherung and
Versorgungswerk der Apothekerkammer Westfalen-Lippe, Patrizia
Chief Operating Officer Klaus Schmitt said on a conference call
today. The group has agreed to buy additional shares from other
owners, bringing its stake to more than 96.5 percent, he said.
Patrizia invested 58 million euros of its own capital.  The GBW sale, due to close in the second quarter, would be
the biggest residential property deal in Germany since Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. bought LEG NRW for about 3.5 billion euros
including assumed debt in 2008, according to data compiled by
 Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  The deal announced today is subject to
antitrust approval.  At least four other investors participated in the final
round of bidding, including Austria’s  Conwert Immobilien Invest
SE (CWI)  and  Immofinanz AG (IIA) , and Wohnen in Bayern, a group of Bavarian
municipalities, four people with knowledge of the matter said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  