-- Petrominerales a Buy at TD on ‘Underappreciated’ Ocensa Pipeline
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2013-04-08T19:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/petrominerales-a-buy-at-td-on-underappreciated-ocensa-pipeline.html
Petrominerales Ltd. (PMG)  is poised to
gain 42 percent over the next 12 months as the Canadian oil
producer considers steps to raise cash from assets including a
Colombian pipeline stake, Toronto-Dominion Bank said.  The company’s 5 percent stake in the 800-plus-kilometer
Ocensa pipeline, which links  Colombia ’s oil-rich eastern plains
with the Caribbean coast, might be partially sold or pledged as
security to obtain debt funding, according to a report today by
the bank’s TD Securities unit. Calgary-based Petrominerales
 agreed  in 2011 to pay $281 million for the stake.  The Ocensa stake “is underappreciated by the market, and
we see significant potential for the company to announce a
transaction” that will demonstrate its value, TD Securities
analysts Jamie Somerville and Danny Yick wrote in the report.
They raised their recommendation on the stock to buy from hold.  The company’s Canadian-traded shares rose 0.7 percent to
C$5.63 as of 2:54 p.m. in Toronto. TD Securities has a 12-month
target price of C$8, according to the report.  Petrominerales fell 1.2 percent to 9,980 pesos at 12:29
p.m. in Bogota. The Colombian-traded shares have tumbled 32
percent this year, the worst performance on the benchmark Colcap
index after textile-maker Fabricato SA, whose shares were
suspended in November and didn’t trade again until March.  TD Securities acted as a financial advisor to
Petrominerales when the company bought the Ocensa stake in 2011,
according to a  statement  at the time.  “Pipeline upgrades, increasing demand for pipeline
capacity, and recent changes to the ownership terms have likely
all contributed to an increase in value since then,” the TD
analysts wrote today.  Petrominerales may need cash because investors in August
are likely to exercise an option to demand immediate repayment
of about $200 million of convertible bonds due in 2016,
according to TD Securities.  The debt can be repaid in cash or shares, and
“Petrominerales is keen to avoid repaying the debentures with
shares to avoid potentially significant dilution,” according to
the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  