-- Philippine Peso Falls to 4-Month Low on Yen, North Korea Risks
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-04-08T09:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/philippine-peso-falls-to-4-month-low-on-yen-north-korea-risks.html
The Philippine peso fell to the
lowest level in almost four months after the yen weakened and as
heightened risk of conflict on the Korean Peninsula prompted
some investors to sell local assets.  The yen dropped to the lowest level against the dollar
since May 2009 as  South Korea  warned of a possible North Korean
missile test on April 10. The yield on three-year bonds rose.
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas is monitoring capital flows after
the  Philippines  achieved an investment grade ranking from  Fitch
Ratings  last month, Governor Amando Tetangco said April 5.  “There’s no immediate reason to buy the peso and, coupled
with the weak yen and the tension on the Korean peninsula, we’re
seeing some profit taking in equities and debt,” said Alan
Cayetano, head of foreign-exchange trading at Bank of the
Philippine Islands in  Manila , the nation’s biggest lender by
market value.  The peso declined 0.3 percent to 41.27 per dollar at the
close in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. It touched
41.315, the weakest level since Nov. 16. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate 
used to price options, rose eight basis points to 4.59 percent.  Fitch raised the Philippines to BBB- from BB+ on March 27.
The next day, Tetangco said the central bank is preparing to
announce a new set of “liberalization measures” to encourage
outflows as early as April.  “After the upgrade, we’re probably getting a much-needed
correction, which I don’t think will lead to any excessive peso
weakness,” Cayetano said. “The BSP will probably remain
proactive in dealing with the flows by rolling out the next wave
of liberalization measures and implementing more cuts in the
special-deposit account rate.”  Increase Volatility  Bank of Japan  measures “are expected to increase
volatility in the  currency markets ,” Tetangco said in an e-mail
today. “Over the medium term, however, if the measures prove to
be successful in lifting Japanese growth, it should be positive
for us given our strong economic ties with  Japan .”  Bangko Sentral, which next reviews policy on April 25,
reduced the rate on its special accounts by about half a
percentage point each in January and March meetings. The central
bank will consider the impact of Japan’s measures on local
inflation and asset prices, Tetangco said in his e-mail.  The yield on the 9.125 percent bonds due September 2016
rose eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 2.60
percent, according to Tradition Financial Services.
Philippine financial markets will be shut for a holiday tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  