-- Pitino Joins King, Payton in Basketball Hall of Fame Class
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-04-08T16:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/pitino-joins-king-payton-in-basketball-hall-of-fame-class-1-.html
Bernard King, Gary Payton and Rick Pitino were among the class of 2013 announced today for the
 Basketball Hall of Fame .  Also honored were Sylvia Hatchell, Dawn Staley, Guy Lewis
and Jerry Tarkanian. The class was unveiled before the National
Collegiate Athletic Association men’s tournament final in
Atlanta, where Pitino will coach the  University of Louisville 
against the University of Michigan.  “It’s a pretty special distraction,” Pitino said at the
televised ceremony. “I’m just so proud to be here.”  Inductees into the Springfield,  Massachusetts , museum had
to receive at least 18 votes from a 24-member committee. The
enshrinement ceremony will take place later this year.  Pitino, 60, has won over 600 collegiate games, led his
teams to 22 postseason appearances and reached the NCAA
tournament’s Final Four seven times with a record three
different schools. With a win tonight, he would become the first
coach to win NCAA titles with two men’s programs, after taking
 Kentucky  to the championship in 1996.  Pitino was also 192-220 in six years as National Basketball
Association coach with the New York Knicks and Boston Celtics.
He had just one winning season, with the Knicks in 1988-89, and
made the playoffs twice.  King, 56, averaged 22.5 points and 5.8 rebounds per game in
a 15-year career with five teams, including the Knicks and New
Jersey Nets. A four-time All-Star, King led the NBA in scoring
in 1984-85 as a member of the Knicks.  Defensive Standout  Payton, 44, played 17 NBA seasons, primarily with the
Seattle SuperSonics, averaging 16.3 points and 6.7 assists per
game. A nine-time All-Star and nine-time All-Defensive First
Team selection, Payton won an NBA championship with the Miami
Heat in 2006 and gold medals with the U.S. team at the 1996 and
2000 Olympics.  The inductees were among 12 finalists announced in
February. Those who missed election include players Maurice Cheeks and Tim Hardaway, and coach Tom Heinsohn. Heinsohn is
already enshrined as a player.  Five others were previously chosen for 2013 entry through
 special panels:  Roger Brown, who was voted in by the American
Basketball Association Committee; Edwin B. Henderson, from the
Early African-American Pioneers Committee; Oscar Schmidt, from
the International Committee; Richie Guerin, from the Veterans
Committee; and Russ Granik, a former NBA deputy commissioner,
from the Contributor Direct Election Committee.  The Hall of Fame was established in 1959 and has 313
inductees, including former players, coaches, referees, teams
and other contributors to the game, according to its website.
Players become eligible five years after retirement; coaches and
referees must be retired for five years or have worked fulltime
for at least 25 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  