-- Price Band Limits to Curb U.S. Stock Volatility Starting Today
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-04-08T14:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/price-band-limits-to-curb-u-s-stock-volatility-starting-today.html
A three-year effort to fine-tune
curbs on  volatility  for individual stocks enters a new phase
today in the U.S.  Trying to reduce market disruptions, regulators are
instituting a plan that creates price bands in which shares are
allowed to trade on American equity exchanges, replacing the old
system of immediate pauses when shares swing rapidly. New
restraints to halt all U.S. stock, options and index futures
when the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  plunges will also take
effect. Both will operate as one-year pilot programs.  Regulators and exchanges are altering the speed bumps
adopted after the May 2010 flash crash to boost confidence in a
market that has become faster and more complex over the last
decade. While replacing automatic halts with the new system
known as limit-up/limit-down is “the right answer,” getting
ready for it hasn’t been easy for broker-dealers, according to
Chris Concannon, a partner at electronic market-maker Virtu
Financial LLC in New York.  “It adds more complexity,” Concannon said. “It sounds
simple, but for firms managing thousands of customer orders, you
have to program how you’ll manage them, how you’ll deal with
quotes and trades across 50 destinations, routing decisions and
execution quality.”  Under limit-up/limit-down, trades won’t be permitted to
occur more than a specified percentage above or below a stock’s
rolling five-minute average price. If the lowest price at which
investors are willing to sell shares reaches the stock’s lower
band, or the highest purchase price reaches the higher band, the
stock enters a so-called limit state for 15 seconds. Should no
trades occur between the bands, trading will cease for five
minutes, according to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Gradual Adoption  More than two dozen companies listed on exchanges owned by
NYSE Euronext,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and Bats Global Markets
Inc. will adopt the new trading bands today. More will join each
week through mid-May until all S&P 500 and Russell 1000 Index
corporations and more than 400 exchange-traded products are
included in the revised program.  The curbs will operate from 9:45 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. New York
time. Other securities will be added in August, when the program
will also run the full day from 9:30 a.m. until 4 p.m.  “There’s going to be some hiccups,”  Adam Sussman ,
director of research at consulting firm Tabb Group LLC in New
York, said in a phone interview. “Where it’s going to get
tricky for brokers is how they handle responses to when a stock
is in a limit state.”  Flash Crash  U.S. stock exchanges and the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, which oversees almost 4,300 brokers, introduced curbs
for individual stocks after the flash crash to halt shares when
they rise or fall at least 10 percent in five minutes. The new
system is likely to cause fewer halts, the SEC said last year.  The so-called single-stock circuit breakers were triggered
550 times between June 2010 and December 2012, according to a
March 27 report by Ana Avramovic, a New York-based analyst in
Credit Suisse Group AG’s trading-strategy unit. Of these, 51
percent were stops in very illiquid or cheap stocks, 40 percent
were driven by news about the company and 6 percent were caused
by what are called fat-finger events or accidental trades. Only
4 percent were triggered by a single bad transaction, and with
the new initiative “we would expect that percentage to
decline,” Avramovic wrote.  Defining Bands  The percentage a stock can move is determined by its
closing price the previous day.  S&P 500  stocks that are more
than $3, for example, can move 5 percent above and below their
rolling average price. The range is bigger for cheaper stocks.  The plan also gives the market that lists a security the
discretion to declare a trading pause when a stock has
“deviated from its normal trading characteristics” and the
exchange decides that a halt would curtail excessive volatility,
the SEC said. That will ensure a company’s shares don’t “remain
impaired” indefinitely, it said.  Testing for the volatility-reducing programs occurred on
several Saturdays and included broker-dealers, all market
centers and the so-called securities information processors that
disseminate data, Louis Pastina, executive vice president for
market operations at the  New York  Stock Exchange, said by phone.
The tests were scripted to trigger events such as limit states
and halts so firms could ensure they can handle the data
properly, he said.  ‘Small Bites’  Phasing in the new curbs “gives the industry time to
digest this in small bites until later in the summer when all
stocks will be included,” Pastina said.  NYSE and NYSE MKT, the exchange operator’s platform for
smaller companies, are ending their liquidity replenishment
points, or automated curbs that pause trading only on those
markets, as the new curbs are installed for specific stocks.
LRPs, introduced as a safeguard when NYSE converted to a more
fully electronic exchange about half a dozen years ago, are
being ended after the SEC told the company to eliminate them to
avoid confusion once the new brakes are in place.  NYSE canceled no trades during the flash crash on May 6,
2010, while other exchanges voided more than 20,000 transactions
totaling 5.5 million shares, according to a report by the SEC
and Commodity Futures Trading Commission in October 2010. More
than 1,000 companies triggered LRPs lasting more than a second
between 2:30 p.m. and 3 p.m. on May 6, compared with 20 to 30 on
most days, the report said. Some exchange and brokerage
executives said NYSE’s actions may have caused liquidity to move
to other venues and created confusion in the market.  Quote Speed  The speed of quote and trade data dissemination has
increased since the the flash crash, when it generally averaged
about 10 milliseconds, or thousandths of a second, according to
the SEC. During several minutes of high volatility on May 6, the
price information was delayed by as much as 35 seconds, causing
concern about data integrity among market participants, who may
have reduced the liquidity they supply through bids and offers,
the SEC and CFTC report said.  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s average latency or time to process public
data for all securities listed on exchanges other than Nasdaq
Stock Market was less than 1 millisecond in the fourth quarter,
compared with less than 3 milliseconds two years earlier,
according to a  notice . Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s average latency
for public quotes and trades in Nasdaq-listed stocks was less
than 2 milliseconds in the fourth quarter, the notice said.
Quotes were processed in less than 4.5 milliseconds and trades
in less than 6 milliseconds two years earlier.  Circuit Breakers  The SEC has also revised the marketwide circuit breakers
that halt all trading, created in the aftermath of the October
1987 crash, because they weren’t triggered during the May 2010
rout. The alterations will make the curbs “more meaningful and
effective in today’s high-speed electronic securities markets,”
the agency said when it  approved  the changes last year.  All U.S. securities trading will halt for 15 minutes when
the S&P 500 falls 7 percent or 13 percent before 3:25 p.m. The
lowest trigger  was previously  a 10 percent drop in the Dow
average. The proposal also shortens the length of most halts and
modifies the times when the circuit breaker can be triggered. A
plunge of 20 percent will cause all trading to stop for the day.
An industry-wide halt was triggered once, on Oct. 27, 1997.  Derivatives Markets  The revised curbs are in  effect  for equity-index futures on
the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and Chicago Board of Trade to
ensure that prices in the related derivatives markets remain
linked to stocks,  Michael Shore , a spokesman for  CME Group Inc. (CME) ,
said in an e-mail. They will also apply to Russell equity
futures traded on Intercontinental Exchange Inc., the company
said in a notice on March 28.  CME and the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association  urged  the SEC to allow marketwide curbs to be
triggered if a sufficient number of individual stocks are  halted 
since that may affect the calculation of indexes. The SEC said
market participants could submit comments about this issue while
the programs are being tested.  How curbs for individual securities will work in
conjunction with those that halt all futures and securities
trading is “poorly understood,” CME told regulators last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 