-- Rabobank’s Zanaco Taps Mobile Money to Boost Zambia Numbers
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-04-09T08:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/rabobank-s-zanaco-taps-mobile-money-to-boost-customer-numbers.html
Zambia National Commercial Bank Plc (ZANACO) ,
which is adding 800 new customers daily, sees further growth by
offering mobile-phone transactions to the almost two-thirds of
potential clients who have no bank account.  “We see today that approximately 37 percent of the
bankable population has been reached,” Martyn Schouten, the
managing director of Zanaco, as the bank is known, said in an
interview on April 5. “So two-thirds of those who could be
banked are not banked yet. Until we catch up with those numbers,
the outlook for bank growth in Zambia is positive.”  Lenders in  Africa ’s biggest copper producer have benefited
as the economy expanded at an estimated 7.3 last year, according
to the Bank of Zambia data. Loans grew by almost one-fifth from
January to October 2012, the Bankers Association of Zambia said.  Zanaco, the country’s biggest lender and 46 percent owned
by Amsterdam-based Rabobank International, plans to boost
customer numbers by providing mobile banking services after
forming an alliance with  Bharti Airtel Ltd.’s (BHARTI)  local unit,
Schouten said.  The lender aims to grow its customer base by 62 percent to
1 million by 2015, from 617,000 at the end of 2012, Schouten
earlier told the company’s annual general meeting in Lusaka.  Zanaco is trying to emulate the success of lenders in
 Kenya , where in June last year the value of mobile money
transactions equaled 60 percent of the country’s gross domestic
product, according to telecommunications trade group GSMA.  Going Mobile  Mobile-money transfers, which allow customers that don’t
necessarily have access to bank branches to make payments and
transfer cash using their phones, will continue to grow in
Zambia, Schouten said.  “We are taking some early steps in those areas and I think
we will see other banks follow down the road.”  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) , and Standard Bank
Group Ltd. have operations in Zambia.  Zanaco made 156 million kwacha ($30 million) in after-tax
profit in 2012, a 30 percent increase on the previous year. The
stock was unchanged at 0.26 kwacha at 10:16 a.m. in Lusaka
according to the  Lusaka Stock Exchange’s  website. It has gained
44 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  