-- Radware Swings Swell on Revenue Outlook: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-04-08T14:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/radware-swings-swell-on-revenue-outlook-israel-overnight.html
Radware Ltd.’s (RDWR)  price swings swelled
to the highest since 2011 in  New York  on concern the Israeli
maker of network technology will post the slowest annual sales
growth in seven years.  Shares tumbled 23 percent to $29.07 on April 5, the
steepest slump since 2004, after the company reported first-
quarter profit that was at least 10 cents a share below its
forecast. The stock’s 60-day volatility quadrupled from a record
low to 55.95, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Radware
led declines on the  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN) , which had
the biggest drop since November last week.  Radware’s $45 million revenue in the first three months of
the year was also below projections as sales from China and the
 Europe ,  Middle East  and Africa region declined, the Tel Aviv-
based company said April 5. The Chinese economy emerged from an
almost two-year slowdown last quarter, while Europe is in
recession. Analysts predict sales for Radware, whose products
help boost network efficiency, will rise 6 percent this year,
the slowest pace of growth since 2006.  “They came into the year with a soft portfolio of
activity,” Alex Henderson, an analyst at Needham & Co. in New
York who rates Radware a buy said by e-mail on April 5.
“Radware noted difficulty closing existing customer add-on
deals. They are confident they will get business over the course
of the year.”  Radware’s trading volume was 20 times the three-month
average on April 5 as the stock had the biggest loss among the
130 companies on the Nasdaq Telecommunications Index. The shares
are trading at 15.7 times estimated earnings, or 38 percent
below its five-year average, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Trading Partner  Europe, which is Israel’s second-largest trading partner,
is in recession amid debt-saddled nations. The euro-zone economy
will contract 0.9 percent this quarter, according to the median
of 26 economists’ estimates collated by Bloomberg. People’s Bank
of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said on March 13 the government
should be on “high alert” after consumer prices jumped in
February, intensifying concern that potential monetary
tightening would slow down the economy.  “We were seeing delays in the sales cycle with existing
enterprise customers on expansion projects of their existing
infrastructure,” Meir Moshe, Radware’s chief financial officer,
wrote in an e-mail April 5.  Rival  F5 Networks Inc. (FFIV)  fell the most in more than two years
on April 5 as the maker of data-management equipment based in
 Seattle  reported preliminary quarterly profit and revenue that
missed its forecast.  Leading Losses  The Bloomberg Israel-US Index of the largest Israeli
companies traded in New York fell 1.8 percent last week, with
Radware leading the declines. Israel’s benchmark TA-25 Index
added 0.2 percent to 1,228.42 in  Tel Aviv  today.  MagicJack VocalTec Ltd. (CALL)  had the second-biggest gain on the
Israel-US index, adding 12 percent for the week to $15.68. The
Israeli company, whose founders pioneered voice-over-Internet
technology, posted the first annual operating profit since its
1996 listing.  CaesarStone Sdot Yam Ltd. dropped 7.5 percent to $24.41,
the largest weekly decline since August. The two biggest
investors in the Israeli maker of countertops registered to sell
shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  