-- Rajoy Calls on EU to Give ECB Powers Comparable to BOE, Fed
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-04-08T14:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/rajoy-calls-on-eu-to-give-ecb-powers-comparable-to-boe-fed.html
Spain called on its European Union
partners to give the  European Central Bank  the same powers as
central banks including the U.S. Federal Reserve or the  Bank of
England  to help the region overcome its economic difficulties.  “We must all ask ourselves whether the ECB should have the
same powers as the rest of central banks in the world,” Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  told reporters in  Madrid  after meeting
with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron . “We need to give
ourselves the instruments that are available in other regions.
Europe is going through a decisive moment which requires setting
the rules of the game clearly.”  The EU must deepen its integration process, Rajoy said. His
People’s Party government is struggling to haul the fourth-
largest  economy  in the euro area out of a six-year slump after a
recession hit the currency bloc. The ECB last week left  interest
rates  on hold as President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers were
still weighing stimulus options.  The Fed decided this month to press on with purchases of
long-term debt, a program known as quantitative easing that has
ballooned its balance sheet to a record $3.21 trillion. The ECB
should look at quantitative easing in an effort to revive euro-
area growth, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said last month.  Funding Conditions  The yield on Spain’s  10-year benchmark bond  fell one basis
point to 4.73 percent today, narrowing the spread with similar
German debt to 3.51 percentage points. Spain’s 10-year yield
rose as high as 7.75 percent in July, the highest since the
single currency’s creation, before Draghi pledged to “do
whatever it takes” to hold the euro together.  Spain is benefiting from improved funding conditions and
the ECB’s efforts in recent months should be recognized, Rajoy
said. Still, the EU should discuss the ECB’s powers along with
the fiscal and banking union, Rajoy said, citing the  Bank of
Japan (8301) ’s recent decision as a “very important change” of
position.  The Japanese currency fell today to the lowest level
against the dollar since June 2009 after Bank of Japan Governor
Haruhiko Kuroda last week pledged to double the monetary base.
The Bank of Japan says it aims to lead the nation out of nearly
15 years of deflation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  