-- Rajoy Says Catalonia Isn’t Scotland in Bid to Keep Spain Whole
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-04-08T15:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/rajoy-says-catalonia-isn-t-scotland-in-bid-to-keep-spain-whole.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
rejected comparisons between Catalonia and Scotland as it
prepares to hold a referendum on independence from the U.K.,
saying he didn’t discuss the matter with  David Cameron  today.  “The situation is absolutely and totally different and was
not discussed during the meeting,” Rajoy told reporters after
meeting with the British prime minister at the Moncloa Palace in
Madrid. “The U.K.’s prime minister and parliament have taken
the decision they considered appropriate in line with their
laws.”  Cameron and Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond  agreed
last year to a referendum on independence to be held in Scotland
in the fall of 2014, raising the prospect of the end of the U.K.
after more than 300 years. The pro-independence Scottish
National Party government is seeking legal advice on the status
of  Scotland ’s European Union membership should it leave the U.K.  Pro-independence parties in Catalonia won a regional
election last year, opening a tussle over autonomy with Rajoy’s
ruling People’s Party in Madrid. The Spanish region of Catalonia
sees itself as culturally different from the rest of Spain, and
has its own language. Rajoy says a referendum would be
unconstitutional and that Catalonia would lose EU membership as
a separate sovereign state.  Spanish law isn’t the same as in the U.K. and the
government is against depriving Catalonians of the benefits of
being part of Spain and the EU, Rajoy said. “I believe in the
future of the Spanish nation, one of the most ancient in
 Europe .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  