-- RBC Lures Wall Street Debt Traders With Volumes in U.S. Doubling
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-04-08T15:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/rbc-lures-wall-street-debt-traders-with-volumes-in-u-s-doubling.html
Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s
largest lender by assets, is hiring credit traders from  Wall
Street ’s biggest banks after doubling annual high-yield debt
trading  volumes  at its U.S. capital markets unit since 2010.  Steve Oplinger starts today in New York as head of U.S.
high-yield and leveraged-loan sales and trading after leaving
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in January, according to Sanam Heidary, a
spokeswoman at  RBC Capital Markets . Robert Williams, a credit
trader who worked at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , is also
planning to join, said two people with knowledge of the moves,
asking not to be identified because the transitions are private.  RBC has hired at least six senior traders and salesmen
since 2011 from firms including Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank AG
and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  as it increases its market share managing
dollar-denominated corporate bond sales. The Toronto-based firm
has boosted its volume of U.S. high-yield bond trading to about
$30 billion in 2012 from $15 billion two years earlier,
according Mike Meyer, RBC Capital’s global head of credit.  “We’re selectively hiring where we see our revenues
growing,” Meyer said in a telephone interview. “We’ve had nice
growth in market share over the past nine to 12 months, in
particular in high yield and leveraged loans.”  RBC is ranked 11th-most active manager of junk-bond sales
in the U.S., up from 13th in 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It captured the 10th-highest market share
underwriting U.S. leveraged loans, from 12th two years earlier.  Job Cuts  RBC’s expansion contrasts with the thousands of jobs being
cut from the world’s biggest banks as they seek to comply with
higher capital withholding requirements and the Dodd-Frank Act,
passed by Congress in 2010 to limit the risks banks take with
their own money.  The 21 primary dealers that do business with the  Federal
Reserve  have reduced their  corporate-bond inventories  by 76
percent since the pre-crisis peak, to $56 billion on March 27
from $235 billion in October 2007, Fed data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Balance sheet continues to be important with clients,”
Meyer said. “We need to balance that with return on equity and
regulatory changes.”  Oplinger, who co-headed U.S. high-yield sales at Credit
Suisse, will be responsible for all sales and trading for high-
yield bonds, leveraged loans, distressed debt and collateralized
loan sales in the U.S., according to Heidary.  Oplinger’s hire “reflects our intention to continue to
strategically grow our credit business in the U.S. and globally,
leveraging our strong origination platform,” Jonathan Hunter,
RBC Capital’s global head of fixed income and currencies, said
in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  