-- Treasury Yield Spread Shrinks Amid Weak Jobs, Fed Buying
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-04-08T21:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/treasuries-are-world-s-best-performers-on-fed-outlook.html
The yield difference between
Treasury 10-year and 30-year debt has narrowed to almost the
least since November after a smaller-than-forecast job gain in
March indicated the  Federal Reserve  will keep purchasing debt to
spur the economy.  Treasuries have been among the world’s best-performing
bonds in the past month as  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said last week he was increasing debt purchases to 7.5
trillion yen ($80 billion) a month to battle deflation. U.S.
government securities due in 10 years and longer returned 6.2
percent from a month ago, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Bank of
Analysts Societies. That was the third-biggest gain across 144
indexes covering bond markets worldwide.  “We seem to be seeing the spring slowdown in the data that
should keep us in this lower-yield range,” said  Carl Lantz ,
head of interest-rate strategy in  New York  at Credit Suisse AG,
one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “The
speculation that funds will flow in from  Japan  on the back of
their easing measures is also keeping the market bid and the
yield curve very flat.”  The benchmark 10-year Treasury  yield  rose three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.75 percent as of 5 p.m.
New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2
percent note maturing in February 2023 fell 9/32, or $2.81 per
$1,000 face value, to 102 9/32. The yield dropped to 1.68
percent on April 5, the lowest level since Dec. 12.  Jobless Rate  The  yield spread  between 10-year notes and 30-year bonds
fell to 1.17 percent after touching 1.16 percent, the lowest
since November, on Friday.  The increase of 88,000 U.S. jobs in March, smaller than the
most-pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists, gives Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his
colleagues reason to press on with $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases aimed at reducing unemployment.  The  jobless rate  fell to a four-year low of 7.6 percent
from 7.7 percent, while average hourly earnings were unchanged,
the Labor Department said on April 5.  Stocks fell  from levels at almost record highs while the
gap in yields between Treasuries and U.S. company bonds was
little changed after the payroll data, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch bond indexes. U.S. company bonds yielded
2.21 percentage points more than U.S. government debt of
comparable maturity, the indexes show.  Treasury Auctions  The Treasury will auction $66 billion of notes and bonds
this week, selling $32 billion in three-year notes tomorrow, $21
billion in 10-year debt the next day and $13 billion in 30-year
bonds on April 11.  “People are trying to get a feel for what everyone else
has to clean up while they take a look at their own positions,”
said  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research at FTN Financial in
 Memphis ,  Tennessee . “No one is aggressively selling Treasuries
that they bought last week in order to move into other markets
with momentum. We’ve got to take more time to absorb all the
news of the last few weeks.”  Retail sales  stagnated in March, after gaining 1.1 percent
in February, based on a Bloomberg survey before the Commerce
Department reports the figure on April 12.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a March 20
statement it will continue its asset purchases until the labor
market improves “substantially.” The committee makes its next
policy decision on May 1.  ‘Losing Steam’  “The  U.S. economy  is losing steam,”  Jan Hatzius , chief
economist at Goldman Sachs, wrote in note dated April 7. “The
statement on May 1 is likely to look fairly dovish and the
current $85 billion pace of purchases is very likely to continue
for the time being.”  Bernanke is scheduled to  speak  at 7:15 p.m. in Atlanta at a
conference on “Maintaining Financial Stability.”  Treasury yields show inflation expectations fell to the
lowest level since January.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, a gauge of
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt,
shrank to 2.46 percentage points, the narrowest since Jan. 2.  Ten-year Treasury yields fell below their 200-day moving
average of 1.74 percent on April 5.  Japan’s biggest investors are shunning their government’s
bonds in favor of Treasuries, endorsing the policies of the Bank
of Japan’s Kuroda to spark inflation and aiding Bernanke’s
efforts to spur U.S. economic growth.  “We’ve had a significant move in Treasuries that may be
too much,” said  Michael Cloherty , head of U.S. interest-rate
strategist at primary dealer Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital
Markets unit in New York. “There are widespread expectations of
a dramatic change in capital flows from the Japan news, and I
don’t think the change will be as pronounced into the Treasury
market as many are expecting.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  