-- Rogue Trader Leeson to Advise Irish Borrowers on Bank Debts
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2013-04-08T10:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/rogue-trader-nick-leeson-to-advise-irish-borrowers-on-bank-debts.html
Nick Leeson, the trader whose wrong-
way bets on Japanese stocks ruined Barings Plc, is joining a
mediation firm to advise Irish borrowers looking to renegotiate
debts in the wake of the real estate collapse.  Leeson, 46, who has lived in Ireland for more than 10
years, will join GDP Partnership as a principal as it expands
into Dublin, the company said in a statement posted on Twitter
by Leeson. There is “a lot of fear and stress currently in the
country with debt the root of the problem,” it said.  “There might be wry smiles from people when they think of
me walking back into a bank to try to negotiate on their
behalf,” Leeson told Dublin-based broadcaster RTE Radio today.
“I have had to face into adversity both financial, health and
many other different aspects of it, so there is a certain degree
of empathy with what people are facing. It is daunting.”  Ireland is grappling with the fallout from the worst real
estate bust in Western Europe, with 25 percent of all mortgages
restructured or in arrears. While the banks aren’t necessarily
the “baddies,” the housing bubble crash is largely a result of
their “reckless lending,” Leeson said.  “There are a lot of individuals out there, a lot of
borrowers who have got their heads firmly in the sand, who
aren’t talking to anybody,” Leeson told RTE. “They aren’t
telling the wife about what is going on, the bank phones up, the
wife says it’s the bank, ‘I’m not here, I don’t want to talk to
them,’ it’s about re-engaging.”  Leeson’s Losses  Leeson, who has overcome cancer, amassed losses of $1.4
billion as Barings Plc’s former head trader in  Singapore  in
1995. The London-based bank collapsed and its assets were sold
to  ING Groep NV (INGA)  of the Netherlands for 1 pound ($1.53). Barings,
whose clients included Queen Elizabeth II, had financed
Britain’s campaign against Napoleon Bonaparte from 1804 to 1815.  In Ireland, the focus of repossessions is on the so-called
buy-to-let market, or properties bought to rent, which jumped
during a decade-long real estate boom, and now account for more
than a fifth of the 142 billion-euro ($185 billion) mortgage
market. More than a quarter of the 31.1 billion euros of loans
on those properties was more than three months in arrears at the
end of December, the Irish Central Bank said last month.  Money Owed  GDP said in the statement that Leeson will join Conor
Devine, a chartered surveyor, and James Gibbons. The company
isn’t a “charitable organization” and borrowers will have to
pay a small up-front charge in addition to a success fee, Devine
told RTE in the same interview.  Leeson, who still has an injunction of 100 million pounds
against him from the failure of Barings, told RTE that it’s
“not money I owe.”  “It was an injunction that was there for controlling
purposes,” he said. “It was to make sure that I engaged with
the liquidators at that time. It’s never been really enforced.”  Leeson lives in Ireland with second wife, Leona, and three
children, according to his website. He stepped down as chief
executive officer of football club Galway United in early 2011
after being appointed in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 Fflynn3@bloomberg.net .
Dara Doyle in Dublin at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 