-- Romney’s IRA Obama Target for Revenue With $3 Million Cap
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-04-08T15:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/romney-s-ira-obama-target-for-revenue-with-3-million-cap.html
President  Barack Obama ’s latest plan
to raise  tax revenue  from wealthy individuals would pinch tax-
favored retirement accounts of some private-equity executives
and self-employed professionals by capping them at $3 million.  The proposal, to be detailed in Obama’s budget April 10,
would raise $9 billion for the government over the next decade,
according to the White House. The issue of multimillion-dollar
individual retirement accounts drew attention last year when
Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  disclosed that his
IRA had a maximum value exceeding $100 million.  It’s not just private-equity executives who would encounter
higher taxes under Obama’s proposal. Self-employed business
owners, such as doctors and lawyers, can contribute up to
$51,000 a year to their IRAs, making it relatively easy for them
to hit $3 million over a career without unusual investment
strategies, said Bobbi Bierhals, a partner at McDermott Will &
Emery LLP in  Chicago  who specializes in estate planning.  “This is going to be seen as a disguised rate increase”
that will alter estate and retirement planning, said John Olivieri, a partner in the private clients group of White & Case
LLP in  New York . “Clients have typically tried not to touch
this money ever, because it’s subject to tax.”  Obama, who persuaded Congress to raise top marginal tax
rates on ordinary income,  capital gains , dividends and estates
during his first term, is seeking more revenue from some of the
same sources. His budget plan will include other revenue-raising
proposals paired with spending cuts in a renewed pitch to
congressional Republicans for a so-called grand bargain to trim
the deficit.  Spending Cuts  “It’s one of the ideas that we need to look at as we need
additional revenues,” said Representative  Sander Levin , a
Michigan Democrat who has warned of harm to defense programs and
 unemployment insurance  from $1.2 trillion in federal spending
cuts that began March 1.  IRAs are retirement accounts that let people contribute
money without paying income taxes up front. The money grows tax-
free inside the account, and holders must pay taxes at ordinary
income rates when they withdraw. IRA owners can begin
withdrawing money without penalty after they turn 59 1/2 and
must start withdrawing money after they turn 70 1/2.  The typical household approaching retirement had $120,000
in combined 401(k) and individual retirement account savings in
2010, according to a July report by the Center for Retirement
Research at  Boston College .  The retirement savings cap would apply to the total of an
individual’s tax-favored accounts.  Retirement Annuity  A $3 million limit would be enough to finance an annuity of
$205,000 in retirement. The White House said in an April 5
statement that under current law “some wealthy individuals”
can accumulate “substantially more than is needed to fund
reasonable levels of retirement saving.”  The administration hasn’t explained how the cap would work.
Officials haven’t said whether they would tax existing balances
above $3 million or prevent people from adding more money to
their accounts once they reach that amount.  The White House also didn’t say whether the limit would be
indexed for inflation or whether it would affect defined-benefit
pension plans. While such plans pay benefits over time, their
present value also can be calculated in a lump-sum amount.  Individuals typically aren’t required to report annual
balances in their retirement accounts to the  Internal Revenue
Service , making it difficult to determine how many people would
be affected.  $100 Million  During last year’s presidential campaign, Romney disclosed
in public filings that his IRA held between $18.1 million and
$87.4 million. At one point, the maximum exceeded $100 million.
Romney, the co-founder of Bain Capital LLC, didn’t explain how
he amassed that much money in an IRA.  Most taxpayers can contribute a maximum of $5,500 to an IRA
for 2013. Older workers, self-employed people and those who save
through 401(k)-style plans have higher caps and can roll those
accounts into IRAs.  Obama appears to use such a plan, according to his  tax
return . The president, who made more money in 2011 from book
sales than from his government salary, deducted a $49,000
contribution to a tax-advantaged  retirement plan .  Disciplined savers in those plans with higher caps can
reach $3 million in savings without unusual investment
strategies, said  Clint Stretch , senior tax policy counsel at Tax
Analysts.  ‘Significant’ Proposal  He said the proposal was “significant” without being
philosophically different from the caps on tax-free
contributions.  One possibility that might explain Romney’s accounts is
that he may have included Bain investments valued at close to
nothing that later grew exponentially. The value would increase
tax free in the retirement account and would be subject to
taxation at ordinary income rates when taken out.  Eric Fehrnstrom , a spokesman for the Romney campaign,
didn’t respond to a request for comment. Brad Malt, Romney’s
longtime personal lawyer, declined to comment.  IRAs have evolved from a retirement-planning technique into
an estate-planning tool for some wealthy families because tax
laws allow the accounts to be passed on to heirs, said Ed Slott,
an IRA specialist and certified public accountant based in
 Rockville Centre , New York.  “It hit a critical mass when a lot of people found out
that Romney had $100 million in his IRA,” Slott said. “People
thought, how on earth did that happen? I think that was the
tipping point.”  Inherited IRAs  Heirs must pay taxes on inherited IRAs, though the payments
can be stretched over a long period as the account holders are
required to withdraw the money over their lifetimes.  Romney’s disclosures prompted congressional Democrats to
call on the Treasury Department to explain how it enforces
relevant tax laws and to offer policy recommendations.  One of those lawmakers, Levin, said in an interview that he
found Romney’s retirement account abusive because it undermined
the purpose of tax breaks for savings.  The Obama budget proposal is “an interesting
alternative,” said Levin, the top Democrat on the tax-writing
House Ways and Means Committee. “We need to look at it
actively.”  Also unexplained is how the cap would affect a second
category of retirement account, the Roth-style IRA. Owners have
already paid income taxes on contributions to those accounts,
meaning the money isn’t subject to taxation upon withdrawal.  More Attractive  “If this doesn’t apply to  Roth IRAs , that’s going to make
Roth IRAs even more attractive to the wealthy,” Bierhals said.
If more people decide to convert some or all of their retirement
savings to Roth accounts, that may generate more short-term
revenue for the government, she said.  Brian Graff,  executive director  and chief executive officer
of the American Society of Pension Professionals and Actuaries,
said his group will “vigorously oppose” any limit on the size
of IRAs.  “It is a ‘plan killer,’” he said in an e-mailed
statement. “As business owners reach the cap, they will lose
their incentive to maintain a plan, and either shut down the
plan or greatly reduce benefits. This would leave workers with a
greatly diminished plan or without any plan at all.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  