-- Rotech Healthcare Files for Bankruptcy to Reduce Debt
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-04-08T19:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/rotech-healthcare-files-for-bankruptcy-protection.html
Rotech Healthcare Inc. (ROHI) , a provider
of home respiratory products, filed for bankruptcy saying its
plan to cut debt by about half and reorganize is supported by a
majority of its noteholders.  “This effort is being undertaken to fix our balance sheet
and will not affect our operations,” Chief Executive Officer
Steven P. Alsene said today in a statement. “Given the support
of our secured stakeholders, we expect the reorganization
process to conclude quickly.”  Under the proposed reorganization plan, lenders owed
$23.5 million and first-lien noteholders owed $230 million will
receive an amended term loan. Second-lien noteholders will get
all of the shares in the new Rotech, eliminating more than
$300 million in debt, according to a company statement.  The company, based in Orlando,  Florida , said it had more
than $100 million in assets and owes lenders and noteholders
about $543.5 million. More than 100 Rotech units entered
bankruptcy as well, according to the main petition filed today
in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware.  Before the reorganization plan can be implemented, it must
be approved by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Peter J. Walsh after
creditors vote.  Inherited Debt  Rotech blamed the filing on more than $500 million in debt
it inherited after its 2002 spinoff from Integrated Health
Services Inc., as well as cuts imposed by the federal
government. The company said it has  lost $1.2 billion  since 2005
because of reductions in the U.S. Medicare and Medicaid
programs, which pay fixed amounts for services provided to the
poor and elderly.  In 2011, the company got 46 percent of its revenue from
Medicare and Medicaid, according to court documents.  In March, a federal judge in  Orlando  issued warrants
allowing government investigators to collect billing records
from the company. Rotech said in court papers that it doesn’t
know whether the investigation is related to $6.2 million the
company repaid in May to the Medicare program for overbilling
caused by a computer program.  In the 12 months ended Sept. 30, Rotech had $464.3 million
in revenue, according to information compiled by Bloomberg. The
company has more than 400 locations in 47 states and has about
4,000 employees.  Bankruptcy Loan  Silver Point Finance LLC agreed to loan the company as much
as $30 million to help finance the bankruptcy, according to the
statement.  Rotech provides home-based equipment to help people with
breathing disorders including Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary
Disease. The rental and sale of oxygen and other respiratory
therapy equipment made up more than 87 percent of the company’s
revenue in 2011, Alsene said in an affidavit.  Rotech’s predecessor company filed for Chapter 11
protection in 2000 along with Integrated Health Services.  The case is In re Rotech Healthcare Inc., 13-10741, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of  Delaware , (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  