-- MRSK Rallies Most in Five Months on Grid Structure: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-04-08T12:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/mrsk-rallies-most-in-five-months-on-grid-structure-moscow-mover.html
OAO MRSK Holding surged the most in
five months as the nation’s largest electricity distribution
company announced its restructuring plan for OAO Russian Grids.  MRSK Holding jumped as much as 6.7 percent, the biggest
intraday advance since Nov. 6, and added 3.8 percent to 1.575
rubles by 3:10 p.m. in Moscow. The amount of shares traded was
about 251 million, equivalent to 1.6 times the three-month
average. MRSK was the biggest gainer on the benchmark Micex
Index, which was little changed at 1,417.96.  The board of directors of Russian Grids, formerly MRSK
Holding, approved issuing an additional 161 billion shares at
2.79 rubles a share, which can be paid for in cash or swapped
for Federal Grid Co. shares at 28.36 kopeks a share, according
to today’s regulatory filing. Russia will exchange its ordinary
shares of Federal Grid for new shares of Russian Grids and will
hold 86 percent in Russian Grids as a result, according to the
filing.  “Valuations bring long-awaited clarity on grid
consolidation,” UralSib Capital analysts said in an e-mailed
note.  President  Vladimir Putin  in November signed a decree
transferring 79.55 percent of Federal Grid’s shares to MRSK
Holding. The merged company was renamed Russian Grids or OAO
Rossiskiye Seti, according to the document.  Federal Grid rose as much as 3.5 percent before trading
down 1.1 percent at 14.85 kopeks. Federal Grid will become a
unit of Russian Grids and its shares will continue to be listed
and trade on the Moscow Exchange, according to the statement.  “The market has realized that after the restructuring
Federal Grid will be a subsidiary of Russian Grids,” Igor
Goncharov, an analyst at BCS Financial Group, said by phone from
Moscow. “Traditionally, shares of subsidiary companies are a
riskier investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  