-- Russian Investment Slows on Rates, Ruble, Belousov Says
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-04-08T06:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/russian-investment-slows-on-rates-ruble-belousov-says.html
Russia ’s high interest rates are
strangling investment, with currency volatility a bigger trigger
for capital outflow than any financial fallout from Cyprus’s
bailout, Economy Minister Andrei Belousov said.  “Russia is experiencing a deterioration in investment
conditions now, which is related to rising interest rates,”
Belousov said yesterday in an interview in Hanover, Germany,
where he was traveling with President Vladimir Putin. Currency
volatility also raises the risk of investing in ruble-
denominated assets, which may be prompting “many investors to
push back decisions on investment projects.”  The economy of the world’s largest energy exporter will
grow no more than 3.2 percent this year, missing the earlier
forecast of 3.6 percent, Belousov told reporters yesterday. The
central bank left its main interest rates unchanged at a meeting
last week, spurning calls from Belousov and other government
officials to reduce borrowing costs.  Russia’s first-quarter net private capital outflows of
$25.8 billion are “seasonal” and not representative of what
may happen for the rest of the year, Belousov said in the
interview. Concern over Cyprus’s debt crisis probably didn’t
play a major role, he said.  “Cyprus may have an effect on outflows, but it would be
systemic,” he said. “Risks have risen again, and we’re seeing
outflows. It’s a general trend of outflows from developing
markets into low-risk assets, above all in the U.S. That’s
normal.”  Ruble Slump  The  ruble weakened  for a sixth day against the central
bank’s target dollar-euro basket, depreciating 0.2 percent to
35.8802 as of 10:16 a.m. in Moscow. The central bank sold
foreign currency to buy rubles on the domestic market for a
second day on April 4, according to data posted on the
regulator’s website.  Output in the first quarter probably expanded about 1
percent from a year earlier, Belousov told reporters, down from
a 2.1 percent pace in the final three months of 2012.  Consumer-
price growth  may slow to 5.8 percent to 6 percent by year-end,
from 7 percent in March, he said.  Russian companies and individuals have $31 billion of
deposits in Cyprus, according to Moody’s Investors Services and
Monument Securities. The bailout will probably provoke an
outflow of Russian money back home, Putin said in an interview
with  Germany ’s state-owned ARD television before an April 7
visit to the European nation.  “The more you ‘pinch’ foreign investors in the financial
institutions of your countries, the better for us because the
affected, offended and frightened -- not all of them but many --
should, so we hope, come to our financial institutions and keep
their money in our banks,” Putin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Hanover, Germany at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  