-- Russia Agreed to Restructure Bailout Loan to Cyprus, Putin Says
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-04-08T10:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/russia-agreed-to-restructure-bailout-loan-to-cyprus-putin-says.html
Russia agreed to restructure a 2.5
billion-euro ($3.3 billion) loan granted to Cyprus in 2011,
bowing to a request by the European Commission, President 
Vladimir Putin said.  “We are making our own contribution” to help the island,
Putin told reporters today at a joint briefing in Hanover with
German Chancellor Angela Merkel. “At the request of the
European Commission, we decided to restructure this debt.”  Russia, which rejected a bid from Cyprus for additional
financial assistance last month, has bristled at suggestions
that it was responsible for bailing out the euro member as
politicians from nations including  Germany  alleged that Cyprus
was used to launder illegal Russian money. Restructuring terms
sought by Cyprus would amount to a 10 percent writedown of the
loan, according to Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov.  Russian companies and individuals have an estimated $31
billion in Cyprus, according to Moody’s Investors Service. The
bailout of the cash-strapped nation will probably provoke an
outflow of Russian money back home, Putin said last week.  Cyprus, which accounts for 0.2 percent of the euro region’s
economy, was forced to inflict unprecedented losses on uninsured
depositors and senior bondholders as part of the 10 billion euro
rescue of its financial system.  The east Mediterranean nation has officially asked  Russia 
to extend its 2.5 billion-euro loan by five years to 2021, the
Nicosia-based Finance Ministry said Jan. 10. The euro area’s
third-smallest economy borrowed the funds in December 2011 and
has also sought an additional 5 billion euros from Russia.  ‘Decent Support’  Agreeing to a five-year extension and a cut in the interest
rate from 4.5 percent to 2.5 percent would amount to “decent
support” for Cyprus, Siluanov said last month. Putin didn’t
disclose the terms of a new credit agreement with Cyprus.  The Russian leader, who berated an earlier rescue plan that
affected insured savers as “unfair, unprofessional and
dangerous,” urged European authorities today to avoid imposing
a levy on bank deposits again.  “We assume that it’s a unique case, that such means of
exiting the crisis in problem areas of the euro region won’t be
used again,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Hanover, Germany at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  