-- MTS Approaches VTB After Tele2 Backdown: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-04-08T22:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/mts-approaches-vtb-after-tele2-backdown-russia-overnight.html
OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) ,  Russia ’s
biggest mobile provider, is abandoning plans to challenge state-
run VTB Group’s takeover of  Tele2 AB (TEL2B) ’s local unit and will seek
talks with the lender about consolidation in the industry, Chief
Financial Officer Alexey Kornya said.  “There is no point in fighting now, the deal is done
already,” Kornya said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York yesterday. “They are a financial
company and not a telecommunications player. VTB will exit from
this investment sooner or later.”  MTS, as the Moscow-based company is known, vowed last week
to fight the buyout after Stockholm-based Tele2 rebuffed its
joint bid with VimpelCom Ltd., Russia’s No. 3 mobile company,
that offered a 30 percent premium to VTB’s $3.55 billion deal.
Tele2 completed the acquisition April 4 with VTB, which
Renaissance Capital and Otkritie Financial Corp. say may sell
Tele2 Russia to state-run OAO Rostelecom, the country’s biggest
fixed-line operator.  American depositary receipts of MTS drove gains in the
 Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian
stocks in the U.S. yesterday, adding 0.7 percent to $19.77 in
the biggest one-day rally in more than a week. MTS  stock  climbed
1 percent to 263.77 rubles, or $8.45, on Moscow’s Micex Index.
Each ADR is equal to two shares. The Russia-US gauge rose for
the first time in six days, adding 0.1 percent.  The combination of Rostelecom and Tele2 would create a
company with 36.3 million mobile subscribers, according to
fourth-quarter data from Advanced Communications & Media. That
compares with 71 million for Moscow-based MTS and 56 million for
VimpelCom. A merger would intensify competition for the nation’s
three biggest providers, which include OAO  MegaFon , Otkritie
analyst Alexander Vengranovich said last week.  ‘Win-Win’  Calls to the press services of  Rostelecom (ROSYY)  and VTB after
normal business hours in Moscow yesterday weren’t answered.
Vedomosti newspaper reported April 5 that VTB, the country’s
second-largest lender, and Rostelecom investor Arkady Rotenberg
are in talks to set up a joint venture with Tele2 Russia, citing
people it didn’t identify. Rotenberg is a former judo partner of
President Vladimir Putin.  “MTS has changed its tactics and what it is doing now is a
win-win for the company,” Konstantin Belov, an analyst at
UralSib Financial Corp., which rates MTS stock hold, said by
phone yesterday from Moscow.“Even if MTS is unable to buy Tele2
in the end, it will still weaken Rostelecom by delaying its
merger with Tele2 and making Rostelecom pay a higher price than
what it could have hoped for. It is very smart.”  VimpelCom (VIP)  expects to continue to work with MTS on Tele2 and
is “considering” its options regarding the company, Amsterdam-
based spokesman Bobby Leach said by e-mail yesterday.  Biggest Loser  VimpelCom, which saw its subscribers decrease in two out of
four quarters last year, has the most to lose from a Rostelecom-
Tele2 Russia tie-up as it has already been shedding market share
and is lagging behind on fourth-generation wireless services,
Alexander Kazbegi, a telecommunications analyst at Renaissance
in Moscow, said last week. The company’s ADRs rallied 0.3
percent to $11.73 in New York yesterday.  Futures on Russia’s dollar-denominated RTS Index added 0.7
percent in U.S. hours to 138,770. The RTS Volatility Index,
which measures expected swings in the stock futures, fell 0.9
percent to 18.51. The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX)  gained 0.9
percent to $27.21 yesterday, after slipping 2.8 percent last
week.  MTS’s Kornya is in New York for a Russia investment
conference hosted by VTB and plans to talk to executives from
the lender about Tele2 Russia, though “that cannot be
considered the start of official talks,” he said in the
interview. “Tele2 has never expressed an interest in selling
this asset to us, although we had expressed our interest in
purchasing the asset.”  ‘Difficult’ Merger  Rostelecom slipped 0.9 percent to $22.297 in New York
yesterday, the lowest level since March 19. Each ADR is equal to
six Moscow-listed shares. The stock  dropped  2.1 percent to
115.68 rubles, or $3.70, on the Micex, while  MegaFon (MFON)  jumped 3.5
percent to $27.90 in  London , the steepest one-day gain since
March 11.  “There is no clear intention to give it to Rostelecom,”
Kornya said. Merging Rostelecom with Tele2 Russia wouldn’t be
“straightforward” and would be “difficult” as Rostelecom has
a bureaucratic, state-run structure, while Tele2’s structure is
Scandinavian, he said.  MTS plans to focus on Russia as it is “quite skeptical on
cross-border synergies in telecommunications,” Kornya said
yesterday. The provider estimates about 50 percent of its
subscribers will have smartphones by the end of 2014, from more
than 20 percent now, he said.  Ruble futures showed the currency weakening 1.1 percent to
31.66 per dollar in U.S. hours yesterday. The ruble gained 1
percent to 31.2195 against the dollar and rose 1 percent to
35.4306 versus the dollar-euro basket used by the central bank
to manage swings that erode exporter competitiveness.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  