-- Scots Independence Support Dips as Indecision Grows, Poll Finds
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-04-08T10:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/scots-independence-support-dips-as-indecision-grows-poll-finds.html
Support for Scottish independence
declined as more people said they were undecided ahead of next
year’s referendum, according to a poll published today.  Backing for full autonomy fell to 30 percent of respondents
from 33 percent in February, the  TNS BMRB survey  found. Those in
favor of remaining part of the U.K. dropped one percentage point
to 51 percent. The number of people saying they don’t know how
they will vote rose to 19 percent from 15 percent.  Independence is the cornerstone policy of Scottish First
Minister Alex Salmond and his Scottish National Party. The poll
of 1,002 voters was taken immediately after Salmond announced
last month that the referendum will be held on Sept. 18, 2014.  “Any reading of this as the settled will of the Scottish
people would be misplaced,” Chris Eynon, who heads TNS BRMB
Scotland, said in an e-mailed statement. “The contest for
hearts and minds on Scottish independence has not even begun.”  The 21-percentage-point gap in favour of  Scotland  remaining
part of the U.K. compares with 19 points in February, the first
time the pollster used the question that will be put to voters
in the referendum. They will be asked: “Should Scotland be an
independent country? Yes/No.”  In earlier TNS-BMRB polls, using a question previously
suggested by the Scottish government, the gap was 20 points in
January, 25 points in October and 20 points in July.  Opposition to independence is much stronger among women
than men, with 55 percent of women wanting Scotland to stay part
of the U.K. compared with 25 percent backing independence. The
percentage of men in favour of separation was 36 percent with 47
percent against it, the poll found.  Salmond’s hope of garnering support among young voters by
giving the vote to 16-year-olds and 17-year-olds may not be
realized, poll data show. The 23 percentage-point gap between
those opposed to independence and those in favour is only
exceeded by those aged over 55, according to TNS-BMRB.  No margin of error was given for the poll, which was
carried out between March 20 and April 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  