-- SEC Gets New Chairman as Senate Approves Ex-Prosecutor White
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-04-08T21:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/sec-gets-new-chairman-as-senate-approves-ex-prosecutor-white.html
The U.S. Senate confirmed Mary Jo White to lead the Securities and Exchange Commission, putting
the former federal prosecutor in charge of an agency that has
failed to satisfy critics with its response to the financial
crisis.  The Senate approved White by unanimous consent, meaning no
senators objected to her appointment, as the first former U.S.
attorney to run the SEC. She succeeds Elisse B. Walter, who has
served as chairman since Mary Schapiro stepped down in December.  White overcame questions about her past work for financial
institutions such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
 UBS AG. (UBS)  White, 65, will retire from Debevoise & Plimpton LLP,
where she earned $2.4 million last year as a partner, she said
in an ethics disclosure letter.  The SEC regulates stock exchanges, brokers and money
managers, and imposes penalties for violations of securities
law. It has been governed by only four commissioners -- two
Democrats and two Republicans -- since Schapiro left.  The addition of White means the commission, now with three
Democratic appointees, could move forward more quickly with new
regulations. The commission has been considering rules including
restrictions on money-market mutual funds, executive-pay
disclosure and financial advisers to municipalities.  “The SEC needs a strong leader in place as it works to
implement Wall Street reform, and that is exactly what the
commission is getting with Mary Jo White,” Senate Banking
Committee Chairman Tim Johnson said today in a statement.  Wednesday Meeting  White could begin at the commission as soon as tomorrow if
paperwork required of presidential appointees is completed, SEC
spokesman John Nester said. She could preside over an SEC open
meeting scheduled for Wednesday to finalize a regulation
requiring financial institutions to create and maintain
identify-theft programs.  On Friday, White is scheduled to take part in a symbolic
swearing-in ceremony at the SEC’s Washington headquarters.  Walter, 62, could continue to serve as a commissioner after
White joins as chairman. Walter hasn’t announced how long she’ll
serve on the commission.  “In recent months, I have had the pleasure of getting to
know Mary Jo and have been impressed by her knowledge,
determination and commitment to public service as she takes the
helm of the greatest workforce in government,” Walter said in a
statement.  Some observers say the commission may proceed slowly under
White because she lacks a background in policy making. Her
Senate nomination hearing last month yielded few details about
her regulatory philosophy.  Dodd-Frank Act  White said her priorities include completing regulations
required by the Dodd-Frank Act, Congress’ response to the 2008
financial crisis, and the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act,
which sought to ease capital raising for new companies. White’s
past career as a defense lawyer won’t affect her ability to
write or vote on regulations, she said.  She will be required to recuse herself from enforcement
matters that involve former legal clients. White, a former U.S.
attorney for the Southern District of New York, told the Senate
Banking Committee that her conflicts of interest would be
“quite narrow.”  “It will be a high priority throughout my tenure to
further strengthen the enforcement function of the SEC,” White
told the Senate Banking Committee on March 12. “It must be
fair, but it also must be bold and unrelenting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  