-- Sentix European Investor Confidence Falls After Cyprus Bailout
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-04-08T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/sentix-european-investor-confidence-falls-after-cyprus-bailout.html
European investor confidence
declined more than economists forecast in April, after the bail-
in of Cypriot bank depositors rattled financial markets, the
Sentix research institute said today.  An  index  measuring sentiment in the euro-area fell to minus
17.3 from minus 10.6 in March, the Limburg, Germany-based
institute said in an e-mailed statement. That’s the second drop
in a row and the lowest reading since December. Economists had
predicted a decline to minus 12.8, according to the median of 18
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey . A gauge of economic
expectations decreased to 0.5 from 8.3, while a measure of
current conditions fell to minus 33.5 from minus 27.8.  Cyprus is gradually easing the first  capital controls  in
the euro’s history after depositors were called on to contribute
to a bailout that will reshape the island nation’s banking
industry. That pushed the price of insuring against default
higher for banks across the euro area, adding to obstacles to
economic recovery for the 17-nation region.  “While it was the Italian election that handed the index a
setback in March, in April it is, among other things, the Cyprus
problem that is depressing it further,” said  Sebastian Wanke ,
an economist at Sentix. “At the moment there’s little
nourishment for optimists on the economy.”  Confidence in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, also fell
in April, to 17.6 from 24.5.  Still, recent weakness in data
should only signify a temporary dent in the euro area’s recovery
even as the risks surrounding the economic outlook are
worsening, Sentix said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  