-- Serbia Rejects Kosovo Accord, Risking Date for EU Talks
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-04-08T07:50:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/serbia-rejects-kosovo-accord-risking-date-for-eu-talks.html
Serbia  rejected a European Union-
mediated agreement with Kosovo and called for further
negotiations with the breakaway province, jeopardizing its drive
to start membership talks with the 27-nation bloc in June.  The nine-month old Cabinet, which insists on a special
police and a court system for Kosovar Serbs, will tell EU
Foreign Policy chief Catherine Ashton by today’s deadline to
comment on discussions that the government is committed to a
solution with Kosovo and its “path toward integration,” Prime
Minister Ivica Dacic said yesterday in Belgrade. The European
Commission will include the comments in an April 16 report on
Serbia’s candidacy readiness.  “I expect efforts to strengthen in the coming days toward
reaching a compromise,” Dacic said after meeting with leaders
of all parliamentary groups. “Diplomatic activity continues and
we are not giving up on our desire to reach a sustainable and
implementable solution.”  Dacic is squeezed between seeking EU support for its
economy, as it struggles to emerge from a two-year recession,
and placating nationalist citizens who insist that  Kosovo  should
never have autonomy. A political settlement with Kosovo, which
declared independence in 2008, is key for the former Yugoslav
republic to win a start date for EU entry talks.  About 1,000 Serbs, who consider Kosovo to be the heart of
the nation’s cultural history, demonstrated in Belgrade over the
weekend, urging political leaders to give up EU aspirations and
hold on to Kosovo. Some held placards declaring, “We don’t want
EU, we want Kosovo.”  Kosovar Serbs  The dinar traded at 111.7140 at 9:06 a.m. in Belgrade, or
0.03 percent stronger against the euro, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Dacic wants Kosovar Prime Minister Hashim Thaci to grant
Serbs in Kosovo’s northern region decision-making rights on
police and the judiciary and to pledge to keep the Kosovo army
out of Serbian communities. The two leaders last met on April 2,
for the eighth time in six months, without any agreement.  Serbia and Kosovo have been at loggerheads since the wars
of the 1990s that led to the breakup of the former  Yugoslavia .
Kosovo is recognized by the U.S. and 22 of the EU’s 27 members.  Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic said on Pink
television yesterday that it’s “unrealistic” to expect an
accord to be signed by tomorrow. He also said he was concerned
that the visa-free arrangement with the EU may be rescinded as a
result.  The EU granted Serbia, Macedonia and Montenegro visa-free
travel in December 2009 after nearly two decades of imposing
them to prevent a flow of refugees as the former Yugoslavia
collapsed in a series of wars.  Weaker Support  Serbian support for EU membership fell to 41 percent in
December, the lowest since the Balkan nation started measuring
the sentiment in 2002.  The Serbian Orthodox Church wrote a letter to the
government on April 6, saying it has neither “the right nor the
mandate to agree to conditions that have not been imposed on any
other candidate state for European Union membership. The ticket
is too expensive.”  While Serbia seeks a start date for entry talks, Kosovo is
in line to sign a Stabilization and Association Agreement, the
first formal step toward membership in the bloc. Both need
deeper EU ties after the civil wars of the 1990s stunted the
region’s transition from communism.  The biggest of the six ex-Yugoslav republics formally
became an EU candidate in March, joining other former federation
partners in moving toward the world’s largest trading bloc.  Balkan Expansion  Slovenia has been an EU member since 2004 and  Croatia  will
enter the EU in July. Montenegro has started membership talks
and the Republic of Macedonia has been ready to start entry
talks since 2009.  Serbia relies on foreign direct investment from western
 Europe  for growth, while 71 percent of the banking industry is
controlled by western European institutions.  “Serbia is in Europe, most investment comes from Europe,
most of our goods we sell in Europe,” Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic said after meeting with Dacic yesterday. “There is no
alternative and we must maintain the best possible relations
with the EU.”  Milosevic’s Socialists, now led by Dacic, rose back to
power in last May’s elections, to rule together with former
nationalists of the Serbian Progressive Party, who have turned
to  Russia  and United Arab Emirates for loans and investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  