-- Softbank Said to Plan $2 Billion Bond Issue in Dollars, Euros
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2013-04-17T19:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/softbank-said-to-plan-2-billion-of-bonds-for-sprint-purchase.html
Softbank Corp. (9984) , the Japanese
telecommunications company vying with Dish Network Corp. to
acquire  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , is preparing to sell $2 billion of
bonds in the U.S. and  Europe .  The company may sell seven-year notes denominated in
dollars and euros this week, according to a person familiar with
the transaction. The bonds may yield 4.5 percent to 4.75
percent.  Softbank began marketing the debt last week with part of
the proceeds intended to be used for the Sprint deal, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because terms aren’t set.
The sale is not contingent on the deal’s closing.  Should the acquisition fail to close, “there’s a lot of
potential uses” for the proceeds, Sajod Moradi, a Philadelphia-
based credit analyst at Delaware Investments, said in a
telephone interview. “They’re a pretty solid company and
they’ll find a good use for that cash.”  Billionaire Masayoshi Son’s Softbank offered in October to
buy a 70 percent stake in Sprint Nextel to enter the U.S. market
and create the world’s third-biggest mobile-phone services
provider. Dish made an unsolicited $25.5 billion cash-and-stock
offer for Sprint Nextel on April 15.  The bonds have been rated a provisional Baa3, the lowest
level of investment grade, by Moody’s Investors Service, the
ratings company said in a April 9 statement. The bonds may be
graded BB+, the highest speculative level, by  Standard & Poor’s ,
the person said.  “There’s still a lot of demand for paper on higher-rated,
quality companies out there,” Moradi said. “This is an
opportunity for them to diversify their investor base a little
bit.”  Deutsche Bank AG is serving as global coordinator for the
offering, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in  New York  at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  