-- Spain Treasury Seeks Broader Foreign-Investor Base
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-04-08T13:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/spain-treasury-seeks-broader-foreign-investor-base.html
Spain ’s Treasury Chief Inigo Fernandez de Mesa said it’s on the look-out for opportunities to
broaden its investor base and lengthen maturities as confidence
in the euro area has made Spanish debt easier to sell abroad.  “To diversify the investor base is an important mid- and
long-term strategy and we don’t rule out any type of funding,”
Fernandez de Mesa told reporters in Madrid, where  secondary-
market  government debt trading for retail investors was started
today.  Spain’s Treasury is open to additional foreign-currency
bond issuances as well as sales of inflation-linked securities
and longer-dated debt, he said.  While the Treasury has covered a third of its planned mid-
and long-term funding for 2013 in the first quarter,  its needs
are higher  than last year. The government has requested the
European Union to give it more time to cut its  budget deficit  as
it struggles to haul the euro region’s fourth-largest economy
out of its second  recession  since 2008.  “There has been a change of trend with an increase in
foreign investors’ interest,” Fernandez de Mesa said. “We are
looking at the markets continuously, looking out for
opportunities and the best moment.”  Retail Investors  While banks will remain the government’s main debt holders,
the Treasury said it aims to boost retail investor demand. The
new platform, which started trading today, aims to facilitate
transactions due to the current lack of liquidity on secondary
markets, he said.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bonds fell one basis
point to 4.74 percent at 3:21 p.m. in Madrid. That compares with
a euro-era high of 7.75 percent in July before the  European
Central Bank  pledged to support the single currency. The spread
with similar German maturities narrowed three basis points to
3.51 percentage points.  Fernandez de Mesa expressed optimism on Spanish debt’s
outlook. “The secondary market continues to be very stable,
volatility has fallen significantly,” he said. “ Europe  is
better equipped with tools to face potential crisis that may
emerge, there is a combination of domestic and European actions
that have generated a substantial increase in market
confidence.”  Regarding the regions, the Treasury chief said the state’s
rescue-fund has the means to supply funding to those that need
it and that the others have had no difficulty in accessing the
market within limits set by the Treasury, with a maximum spread
of 100 basis points over its own benchmark securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  