-- Sundance Scraps Hanlong’s $1.18 Billion Iron Ore Takeover
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-04-09T06:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/sundance-scraps-hanlong-s-1-18-billion-iron-ore-takeover.html
Sundance Resources Ltd. (SDL)  plunged by a
record in Sydney trading after scrapping a A$1.14 billion ($1.19
billion) takeover agreement with Sichuan Hanlong Group.  The stock fell 48 percent to 11 Australian cents at the
close of trade, valuing the company at A$338 million and cutting
Hanlong’s holding to about A$47.7 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Hanlong paid A$191 million for 433.8
million shares in 2011.  Sundance, which yesterday terminated the accord after
Hanlong was unable to secure funding, said it’s in talks with
other groups for a stake in its $4.7 billion African iron ore
project. The collapse of the deal, first agreed in October 2011,
comes after Hanlong’s billionaire Chairman Liu Han, 47, was
reported to have been detained last month by police in China.  “Hanlong has lost a lot of their investment in Sundance,
that’s creating an overhang in the shares,”  Gavin Wendt , a
director at Mine Life Pty said by phone from Sydney. “The
market is going to be expecting Hanlong to want to find a buyer
for their stake, but who is going to purchase that?”  Hanlong, which was seeking to buy the shares it didn’t
already own in the Australian company, was also unlikely to meet
other required conditions, Perth-based Sundance said yesterday
in a statement. Sundance is in talks with other Chinese and non-
Chinese parties, it said, without naming them. Buying Sundance
would have given Hanlong control of the Mbalam iron ore project
that straddles the Republic of Congo and Cameroon.  More Valuable  “The board of Sundance believes it is in its shareholders’
best interests to terminate the agreement,” Chairman  George Jones  said in the statement. “Sundance’s Mbalam-Nabeba project
is significantly more valuable today than when the Hanlong bid
was first made.”  Shares of Sundance resumed today after being halted from
trading since March 19 at 21 Australian cents, 53 percent lower
than Hanlong’s revised offer of 45 cents a share, indicating
some investors didn’t expect the deal to succeed.  “For certain, the stock is going to be under pressure,”
said Matt Fernley, an analyst at GMP Securities Ltd. in  London .
“It’s going to take a while for the dust to settle in terms of
what are the additional potential bidders out there.”  Liu is being held for helping his brother Liu Yong evade
capture over a 2009 triple murder, state media reported last
month. Liu and his ex-wife were detained in Beijing at the end
of the annual meeting of  China ’s legislature, according to a
March 20 report in Shanghai Securities News that cited
unidentified people familiar with the matter.  Missed Deadline  Closely held Hanlong, which owns about 14 percent of
Sundance according to data compiled by Bloomberg, advised
Sundance it wouldn’t meet a March 26 deadline to deliver a term
sheet from Chinese banks to buy the company, the Australian
company said that day. An earlier deadline for a term sheet was
extended in December. Sundance said on April 5 a good faith
consultation period with the Chinese company had ended.  Hanlong, an investor in highways and power projects, cut
its offer to 45 cents in August, from the 57 cents agreed in
October 2011. It had made an initial offer of 50 cents in July
2011.  “They have to start from scratch now when economic
conditions are a lot more difficult,” said Mine Life’s Wendt.
“It’s not going to be easy for them to go out there to find
investors because of the more concerning outlook for iron ore
demand and iron ore prices and it’s significantly harder to
attract funding for high capex projects.”  High Profile  A probe of Liu Han could lead to the highest-profile case
against a Chinese businessman since Xi Jinping and  Li Keqiang 
took control of the Communist Party in November as part of a
once-a-decade leadership transition. Xi and Li were named
president and premier last month, both promising to get tough on
corruption.  Liu Han was ranked the 230th richest person in China with a
wealth of 6.3 billion  yuan  ($1 billion), according a list of the
1,000 richest people in China published September 2012 by the
Shanghai-based Hurun Report. That was up 26 percent from 2011,
Hurun said. Liu Han was a member of the Sichuan province’s
political consultative conference, a government advisory body,
according to a notice in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  