-- Suntech Jumps on Buffett Buyout Report: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-04-08T21:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/suntech-jumps-on-buffett-buyout-report-china-overnight.html
Chinese solar manufacturers rallied
in New York, led by  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , on a report that
billionaire  Warren Buffett  may be interested in buying the
company forced into bankruptcy after defaulting on debt.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. rose 0.4 percent to 89.44
yesterday. Suntech jumped as much as 28 percent after a news
service owned by Hong Kong Economic Times said Buffett’s
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. may buy the solar panel maker,
citing an unidentified person.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  surged the most
in two months.  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  slumped a second day.  Suntech, which defaulted on a $541 million bond repayment
last month, has lost 18 percent since Chinese banks filed an
insolvency petition for its main unit March 20. Tina Potthoff, a
spokeswoman for MidAmerican in Des Moines, Iowa, said by e-mail
that the company doesn’t comment on speculation. Changzhou-based
Trina said that it will post a profit in the second half.  “The rumor Buffett is interested in buying Suntech, and
separately, Trina saying they will see profit again in the
second half this year” is helping drive gains in solar
equities,  Gordon Johnson , an analyst at Axiom Capital Management
Inc., said by e-mail in New York. “Chinese solar companies
would be bankrupt were it not for their ability to roll over
existing Chinese debts.”  Suntech, LDK Solar Co. and  Yingli Green  Holding Co. are
among the top 10  worst performers  this year on the China-US
gauge amid a supply glut and alternative-energy subsidy cuts in
Europe. Thomas Young, Trina’s vice president of  investor
relations  in  San Jose , California, said in an e-mail yesterday
that the company is targeting a return to profitability during
the second half of 2013.  Solar Investments  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., closed little changed at
$35.63 in New York, the lowest level since Oct. 10. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index added 0.6 percent to 1,563.07.  Suntech, a Wuxi, China-based company that was the world’s
biggest solar-panel maker in 2011, surged 16 percent to 48 cents
in New York, the biggest one-day jump since Dec. 19.  MidAmerican has invested in solar power projects in
California and Arizona and wind farms in Illinois. Chief
Financial Officer Patrick Goodman said in November that the
company was targeting renewable energy deals, in part because
utility valuations were high.  An e-mail to Suntech’s investor relations unit wasn’t
immediately returned outside of business hours in China.  ‘Big Debt’  “If Buffett were to buy Suntech, he would be entering a
company with big debt and a market where solar product prices
are still low,”  James Kelleher , a director at Argus Research in
New York, said by phone. “Suntech doesn’t have any of the
advantages of Buffett’s other previous acquisitions. China would
be reluctant to do debt restructuring for Suntech should Buffett
take over.”  Trina’s American depositary receipts climbed 7.6 percent to
$3.84 in New York, rising the most since Jan. 22. The company
has reported losses for six straight quarters through the end of
2012. Yingli Green, the world’s biggest solar panel maker by
shipments, added 4.5 percent to $1.85 in a third day of gains.  Budget hotel chain operator  Home Inns & Hotels Management
Inc. (HMIN) , based in Shanghai, rallied for the first time in seven
days, advancing 3.9 percent to $25.93. China Lodging Group Ltd.
jumped 5.2 percent to $15.88 after losing 8.3 percent last week.  Flu Spreads  Travel-related stocks dropped last week after the emergence
of a new strain of bird flu in China. Three more cases of the
H7N9 virus that’s killed seven people since March were reported
yesterday. The government is “confident” it will be able to
deal with the outbreak “effectively,” Ma Xiaowei, a vice
minister at the National Health and Family Planning Commission,
said in an interview in Beijing April 7.  New Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc. (EDU) , China’s
biggest private education company, rose 4.7 percent to $16.83,
the steepest rally since March 18. The shares slumped 11 percent
last week.  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) , the biggest online
travel agency in China, gained 4.7 percent to $21.06, after
sinking 5.9 percent last week.  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (CEA) 
added 3.3 percent to $20.69 in New York.  SouFun, owner of China’s largest real estate information
website, slid 3.3 percent to $22.25.  Property Curbs  The Beijing branch of China’s central bank boosted the
minimum down-payment requirement on commercial bank loans for
second-home purchases to 70 percent, according to a statement
posted on People’s Bank of China’s website yesterday. China’s
largest cities published rules aimed at limiting home purchases
before April 1 as the government seeks to curb gains in  home
prices .  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in Hong Kong was
little changed at 10,429.76 yesterday. The Shanghai Composite
Index of domestic Chinese shares dropped 0.6 percent to
2,211.59, the lowest level since Dec. 27, resuming after a two-
day break in trading.  China is scheduled to report March inflation data today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  