-- Swiss Stocks Advance; Novartis, Luxury Companies Rise
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-04-08T15:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/swiss-stocks-advance-novartis-luxury-companies-rise.html
Swiss stocks  rose, rebounding from
last week’s decline, as investors waited for Alcoa Inc. to kick
off the U.S. earnings season, and a report showed German
industrial output rose more than forecast in February.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  advanced the most in more than five weeks after
Bank of America Corp. raised its recommendation for the stock.
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA and  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  added at least
1.8 percent.  Barry Callebaut (BARN)  AG, the world’s largest maker of
bulk chocolate, fell the most in 11 months after reporting
first-half profit and revenue that missed analysts’ projections.  The  SMI (SMI)  rose 0.7 percent to 7,691.84 at the close in
Zurich. The benchmark gauge slid 2.2 percent last week as data
on U.S. jobs and services industries signalled the economic
rebound in the world’s largest economy has slowed. The broader
Swiss Performance Index gained 0.9 percent today.  “After the cold shower for investors on Friday with the
U.S. employment numbers, investors will now focus on the
publication of first-quarter results for Alcoa today,” said
John Plassard, who helps oversee $28 billion as vice president
at Mirabaud Securities LLP. “So far this year, we’ve seen
consolidations being followed by good rebounds, so this week is
crucial for equity markets as investors will seek confirmation
of a rebound or gauge whether the market momentum is waning.”  The number of stocks changing hands in the Swiss gauge was
18 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Alcoa Results  Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum producer,
unofficially kicks of the U.S. earnings-reporting season after
the close of U.S. markets today. Profits at companies in the  S&P
500  may contract 1.8 percent in the first quarter, the first
drop since 2009, analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  German industrial production  rose 0.5 percent from January,
when it contracted 0.6 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin
said today. Economists forecast a 0.3 percent gain, according to
the median of 41 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . From a
year earlier, production dropped 1.8 percent when adjusted for
working days.  Novartis gained 1.8 percent to 66.65 Swiss francs,
contributing the most to the SMI’s advance, as Bank of America
raised its recommendation on the shares to neutral from
underperform. Graham Parry, an analyst at Bank of America, said
the drugmaker will benefit from a re-rating of the sector.  Richemont, the owner of the Cartier brand, climbed 2.2
percent to 72.65 francs, while Swatch, the largest maker of
Swiss watches, added 1.8 percent to 527 francs.  Barry Callebaut  declined 3.3 percent to 881.50 francs after
posting first-half net income from continuing operations of
116.4 million francs ($124.5 million), missing the average
analyst estimate of 129.4 million francs. Revenue in the first
half was 2.39 billion francs, compared with the 2.46 billion-
franc analyst forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  