-- U.K. RICS House-Price Index Rose in March as Outlook Improved
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-04-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/u-k-rics-house-price-index-rose-in-march-as-outlook-improved.html
An index of U.K.  house prices  rose
in March as transactions picked up and the outlook improved, the
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors said.  The gauge increased to minus 1 from minus 7 in February,
London-based RICS said in an e-mailed report today, citing a
monthly poll of property surveyors. Measures of average sales
per surveyor and newly agreed sales both showed growth.
Separately, the British Retail Consortium said its measure of
retail sales rose in March.  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne has pledged help
for people unable to afford a home as the property-market
recovery struggles to take hold, adding to aid from the Funding
for Lending Scheme. The Bank of England maintained its policy
settings last week as officials assess strains from  Europe 
against inflation risks in the economy.  “While these are still very much early signs, it is
encouraging that sales are beginning to pick up,” RICS director
Peter Bolton King said in a statement. “Thanks to initiatives
such as Funding for Lending, mortgages are becoming more
accessible to buyers, which is gently easing the pressure on the
market.”  RICS’s index of  new buyer enquiries  rose to 11 from 3 in
February, and a gauge of newly agreed sales slipped to 11 from
16. Average sales per real-estate agents’ branch rose to 17.4
from 16.8.  A non-seasonally adjusted measure of price expectations in
the coming year rose to 26 from 25, and a measure for sales
prospects was 52, down from 53 the previous month.  Hiring Index  In a separate report, KPMG LLP and the Recruitment and
Employment Confederation said growth of staff placements
continued in March, though at a slower rate than in the previous
month. Their index of hiring of full-time staff dropped to 50.8
from 52.7 in February. Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  Same-store retail sales values rose 1.9 percent in March
from a year earlier, the BRC said in a separate statement. On a
three-month basis, sales were up 2.2 percent. Food sales
increased 2.5 percent and non-food sales gained 1.9 percent.  Osborne pledged 3.5 billion pounds ($5.4 billion) in his
budget last month to help Britons purchase newly built property.
He also announced a plan to guarantee as 130 billion pounds of
new mortgages to help reduce the deposit needed to purchases
existing and newly built homes. The program begins in 2014 and
will run for three years.  The central bank said last week the availability of
mortgages improved in the first quarter and may increase further
in the current period after the FLS gave banks access to cheaper
credit. Policy makers held their bond-purchase plan at 375
billion pounds last week, and the benchmark interest rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 