-- U.K. Labour Proposes Giving Councils Power to Ban Betting Shops
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-04-08T11:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/u-k-labour-proposes-giving-councils-power-to-ban-betting-shops.html
Ed Miliband , leader of the U.K.’s
opposition  Labour Party , said local authorities should have the
power to ban types of shops including bookmakers and loan
companies.  In a speech marking the start of his party’s campaign for
local elections on May 2, Miliband said a Labour government
would ensure “local people can have a say about which type of
shops they want to see and which they don’t.”  While Miliband focused on “payday loan” companies, which
charge high rates of interest for check-cashing and short-term
lending, a Labour policy document cited bookmakers as another
target.  William Hill Plc (WMH)  operates more than 2,300 betting shops
in Britain, and  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD)  has more than 2,000.  “Everyone here today knows how important our high streets
are to towns and cities across Britain,” Miliband told
supporters in Ipswich, eastern England. “They’re not just the
places we go to shop. They’re the heart of our local
communities. But today our high streets are changing –- and
often not for the better.”  More than 2,300 council seats are being contested in
England and Wales. The last time the same seats were elected, in
2009, Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservatives gained 285,
while Labour lost 327. Labour was then in government, and the
Conservatives were ahead in national polls. This time, the
Conservatives are in power and Labour leads in the polls.  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  launched his Liberal
Democrat Party’s campaign by attacking both Labour and his
Conservative coalition partners for wasteful spending in local
government. He said one Tory council leader had spent 210,000
pounds ($320,000) on a chauffeur.  “Wherever we can, Liberal Democrats are spreading the
burden fairly, investing in ways that enable everyone to get on
in life, not just the well off,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  