-- U.S. Business Schools See Slower Growth From Foreign Applicants
-- B y   L o u i s   L a v e l l e
-- 2013-04-08T20:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/u-s-business-schools-see-slower-growth-from-foreign-applicants.html
International applications to U.S.
graduate business programs sputtered this year amid an
unexpected plunge in the number of potential candidates from
 China .  Seven consecutive years of double-digit increases in
Chinese applicants to all U.S. graduate programs were reversed
this year, when the number fell 5 percent, according to new
 research  released today by the Council of Graduate Schools.  At business programs, international applications increased
just 2 percent this year, down from 7 percent in 2011-2012 and
11 percent the year before. The biggest increase was in the arts
and humanities, where requests for admission grew 4 percent; the
biggest decrease was in the life sciences, where applications
fell 7 percent.  China is the largest country of origin for international
graduate students in the U.S., accounting for about 29 percent,
and Chinese students represent a significant portion of graduate
business students as well.  In addition to China, applications from  South Korea ,
 Taiwan ,  Canada ,  Mexico  and Europe also fell. Applications from
 India , which accounts for about 20 percent of all international
students, grew by 20 percent, the biggest increase for any
country except for Brazil, which had a 24 percent increase.  Some possible reasons for the decline in international
applicants include changes in the average number of applications
per student, competition from other countries and the size of
financial-aid packages.  Debra Stewart, president of the council, says visa issues
have made it difficult for international students to enter and
stay in the U.S., while the federal sequester legislation --
across-the-board spending cuts that took effect on March 1 --
has made future financial aid awards uncertain.  “The thing that is probably important this year is the
current instability in funding within U.S. institutions,” she
said. “We still don’t know what the impact of the sequester
will be, but many institutions could not make longer term
financial-aid package commitments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louis Lavelle at 
 llavelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net  