-- U.S. Credit Swaps Drop; Dollar General Sells Bonds in Two Parts
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-04-08T20:43:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/u-s-credit-swaps-fall-to-series-low-as-earnings-season-starts.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk declined as  Alcoa (AA)  Inc.’s profit exceeded analysts’
estimates, marking the start of the earnings season.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 1.5
basis points to a mid-price of 85.4 basis points at 4:28 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge
is poised for its lowest close since traders started moving
positions into a new series on March 20.  Alcoa, the first Dow Jones Industrial Average member to
publish results each quarter, reported an 11 cents a share
adjusted profit today, better than the 8-cent average of 18
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Investors may be
influenced by earnings results that indicate whether companies
will struggle to repay obligations.  “Looking ahead, earnings season will be very interesting
to see if we’ll get any response in investment grade. We’ll get
a test with Alcoa,” Noel Hebert, the chief investment officer
at Concannon Wealth Management, which oversees about $250
million of assets, said in a telephone interview from Bethlehem,
 Pennsylvania . “High yield is a place where, if we get something
really disappointing from someone, we could see a reaction.”  Overall first-quarter revenue for companies in the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index is forecast to be up 1 percent from the year
before, according to a note from JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts.  Dollar General  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Dollar General Corp. (DG) , the discount retailer acquired by KKR
& Co. in 2007, sold $1.3 billion in bonds and expects to raise
$1.85 billion in loans to help refinance senior secured
borrowings.  The company, based in Goodlettsville,  Tennessee , sold $900
million of 3.25 percent, 10-year debt to yield 155 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries and $400 million of 1.875
percent, five-year notes with a relative yield of 120 basis
points, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The bank debt is
expected to consist of a $1 billion term loan and an $850
million cash flow-based revolving credit line, each due in five
years,  Dollar General  said today in a statement distributed by
 Business Wire .  Default Rate  Proceeds from the  term loan  and the note sale will be used
to pay off a senior secured credit pact and for general
corporate purposes, according to the statement.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index dropped 8.7 basis points to 415.9 basis points in a
third day of declines, Bloomberg prices show.  The trailing 12-month U.S. speculative-grade corporate
default rate finished the first quarter at 2.9 percent,
unchanged compared with a year ago and down from 3.4 percent on
a sequential basis, according to a report today from Moody’s
Investors Service.  The rate is expected to fall to 2.6 percent by the end of
the year, the report said. Moody’s expects default rates to be
highest in the U.S. media industry, which includes the
advertising, printing and publishing sectors.  The dollar-weighted, speculative-grade bond default rate in
the U.S. ended the first quarter at 1.3 percent, down from 1.5
percent a year ago and 1.7 percent in the previous period,
according to the report.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt tightened 7.7 basis points to 528.8 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB- at S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  