-- U.S. March Conference Board Employment Trends Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-04-08T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/u-s-march-conference-board-employment-trends-index-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S.
employment trends index from the Conference Board.  The Conference Board Employment Trends Index fell in March.
The index now stands at 111.20, down from 111.43 (an upward
revision) in February. The March figure is 3.7 percent higher
than a year ago.  “Despite the decline in March, the Employment Trends index
is still signaling moderate job growth in the coming months,”
said  Gad Levanon , Director of Macroeconomic Research at The
Conference Board. “The current trend suggests faster growth than
the disappointing increase of 88,000 jobs in March. At the same
time, 200,000 new jobs per month in the current economic
environment is not in the cards either.”  March’s weakening in the ETI was driven by negative
contributions from four of its eight components. The declining
indicators -- from the largest negative contributor to the
smallest -- were Percentage of Firms With Positions Not Able to
Fill Right Now, Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales, Initial
Claims for Unemployment Insurance, and  Job Openings .  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market
indicators, each of which has proven accurate in its own area.
Aggregating individual indicators into a composite index filters
out “noise” to show underlying trends more clearly.  The eight labor-market indicators aggregated into the
Employment Trends Index include:  Percentage of Respondents Who Say They Find “Jobs Hard to
Get” (The Conference Board  Consumer Confidence  Survey)  Initial Claims for  Unemployment Insurance  (U.S. Department
of Labor)  Percentage of Firms With Positions Not Able to Fill Right
Now (National Federation of Independent Business Research
Foundation)  Number of Employees Hired by the Temporary-Help Industry
( U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics )  Ratio of Involuntarily Part-time to All Part-time Workers
(BLS)  Job Openings (BLS)**  Industrial Production  (Federal Reserve Board)*  Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales (U.S. Bureau of Economic
Analysis)**  The Conference Board publishes the Employment Trends Index
monthly, at 10 a.m. ET on the Monday that follows each Friday
release of the Bureau of Labor Statistics Employment Situation
report. The technical notes to this series are available on The
Conference Board website:  http://www.conferenceboard .
org/data/eti.cfm.  *Statistical imputation for the recent month
**Statistical imputation for the two most recent months  ABOUT THE CONFERENCE BOARD The Conference Board is a global,
independent business membership and research association working
in the public interest. Our mission is unique: To provide the
world’s leading organizations with the practical knowledge they
need to improve their performance and better serve society. The
Conference Board is a nonadvocacy, not-for-profit entity holding
501 (c) (3) tax-exempt status in the  United States .
www.conference-board.org  Employment Trends Index 2013 Publication Schedule
Index Release Date (10 AM ET) Data for the Month
Monday, May 6 April
Monday, June 10 May
Tuesday, July 9 June
Monday, August 5 July
Monday, September 9 August
Monday, October 7 September
Monday, November 4 October
Monday, December 9 November
* Tuesday release due to holiday  SOURCE: The Conference Board
 http://www.conference-board.org 
