-- First California Fracking Challenge Is Defeat for U.S.
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-04-08T18:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/u-s-failed-to-take-hard-look-at-fracking-judge-rules.html
The U.S. Bureau of Land Management
violated an environmental law by failing to take the necessary
“hard look” at the impact of hydraulic fracturing when it sold
oil and gas leases in  California , a federal judge said.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul Grewal in  San Jose , California,
said the BLM violated the National Environmental Policy Act by
relying on outdated reviews, conducted before the extraction
process known as fracking spurred massive development of energy
deposits, when the U.S. sold four leases in 2011 for 2,700 acres
of federal land in Monterey and Fresno counties.  “BLM’s dismissal of any development scenario involving
fracking as ‘outside of its jurisdiction’ simply did not provide
the ‘hard look’ at the issue that NEPA requires,” Grewal said
in a ruling yesterday.  The decision is the first federal court opinion to
explicitly recognize the significant risks and controversies
created by the spread of fracking across the U.S., said
attorneys for the Center for Biological Diversity,  which sued
in 2011 to invalidate the leases.  “This is an important decision that recognizes the
significant risks that fracking poses to California’s land, air
and water,” Brendan Cummings, senior counsel for the group,
said in an e-mail. “In an era of dangerous  climate change , the
federal government should not be leasing public land for extreme
forms of fossil fuel extraction.”  Monterey Shale  Some of the land covered by the leases is located in
California’s Monterey shale formation, which spans 1,750 acres
across the state’s central and southern regions. The formation
is estimated to hold 15.4 billion barrels, or 64 percent of the
nation’s total shale oil resources.  The group had asked Grewal to invalidate the leases, which
he declined to do. Instead, he ordered both sides to meet and
submit a remedy to him by April 15. Grewal granted the
government’s request to throw out claims that the leases
violated the Mineral Leasing Act.  Fracking involves forcing millions of gallons of chemically
treated water underground to break up rock and free trapped
natural gas or shale oil. The practice has sparked environmental
litigation across the U.S.  Doran Sanchez, a BLM representative, didn’t immediately
respond to e-mail messages seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is  Center for Biological Diversity  v. Bureau of
Land Management, 11-cv-06174, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in the San Francisco federal courthouse at
   kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  