-- Huawei Defends Equipment Security Amid Spying Concerns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-08T08:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/huawei-targets-10-growth-on-smartphones-cloud-computing.html
Huawei Technologies Co. said it
doesn’t pose a U.S. security threat as  China ’s largest maker of
telecommunications equipment defends itself against foreign
governments’ concerns that it aids intelligence agencies.  The Shenzhen-based company “never sold key equipment into
U.S. networks,” Deputy Chairman Guo Ping said today after the
company released its annual report. Huawei became one “of the
world’s top three smartphone makers” in the fourth quarter and
expects the proportion of sales from networking equipment, the
area that has drawn foreign scrutiny, will decline.  Huawei is fighting concerns over cybersecurity in markets
from the U.S. to  Australia  as American intelligence agencies and
security companies traced web attacks to China.  Softbank Corp. (9984) 
and Sprint Nextel Corp. told a U.S. lawmaker last month they
won’t integrate equipment from the Chinese company into Sprint’s
network after they merge, the legislator said.  “There has never been any incident of our product
threatening cyber security or network security,” said Guo.
Huwaei serves more than 600 telecommunications operators in more
than 140 countries, he said.  “Since our installed base for telecom network equipment in
the U.S. in the past and today was and is almost zero,
therefore, there is no ability for Huawei to pose a threat to
America’s cyber security.”  ‘National Interests’  A U.S. congressional committee in October said Huawei and
 ZTE Corp. (763)  provide opportunities for Chinese intelligence
services to tamper with telecommunications networks for spying.
Huawei was barred by the U.S. in 2011 from participating in
building a nationwide emergency network.  Australia in March 2012 banned Huawei from bidding on a
national broadband network citing “national interests.”  Huawei network equipment sales will fall to 60 percent of
revenue by 2017 from 73 percent in 2012, said Guo, who is one of
the company’s three rotating chief executive officers. Consumer
devices will rise to 25 percent of sales in 2017 from 22 percent
last year, driven by a push into high-end products, he said.  “There has been no material impact from this report on
Huawei’s business” Guo said, referring to the U.S.
congressional committee’s findings. While it had
“difficulties” in the U.S., he said Huawei is “fully
confident” about its growth.  High-End Market  Huawei today said it’s targeting 10 percent compound annual
revenue growth in the next three to five years by expanding its
smartphone and cloud computing businesses.  Sales last year rose 8 percent to 220 billion  yuan  ($35
billion), helping boost net income 32 percent to 15.4 billion
yuan. The company in January projected revenue will gain as much
as 12 percent this year.  “Huawei is the only one that has the capability to enter
into high-end market,” said Bill Fan, an analyst at Guosen
Securities Co. in  Hong Kong . “It is the only Chinese brand that
can produce a quad-core chipset.”  Huawei may also face additional restrictions in  Canada ,
where the government is reviewing whether it needs rules to
govern the equipment used by the country’s biggest mobile-phone
operators, a person familiar with the matter said last month.
Huawei, which supplies both Telus Corp and BCE Inc., has been
barred from providing gear for Canadian government networks.  Military Background  Huawei, the world’s second-largest maker of equipment for
phone networks, after Ericsson AB, was founded by Ren Zhengfei
in 1987 after retiring from the Chinese military in 1983.  Ren reduced his role at the company since October 2011,
when he split the role of chief executive officer with a panel
of three executives who rotate at six-month intervals. Deputy
Chairmen Guo, Xu Zhijun, and Hu Houkun are the co-CEOs. Guo took
the title in October 2012.  Huawei “will not be the next to fall,” Ren said in the
annual report today. “We are striding across the  Pacific
Ocean .” He didn’t specifically refer to the U.S. probe.  Huawei is employee-owned, with about 74,000 of the total
155,000 workers holding shares, according to its report.  Chief Financial Officer Meng Wanzhou, who is Ren’s
daughter, in January said her father controls about 1.4 percent
of the company. Huawei will keep “an open mind” on whether or
not to become a public company through a share sale, she said in
January.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  