-- Lufkin Vaults Simmons Into Top 10 Advising on Energy M&A
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-04-10T00:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/lufkin-vaults-simmons-co-into-top-10-advising-on-energy-m-a.html
Simmons & Co., the Houston advisory
boutique founded in 1974, has slipped into the spotlight with
roles on two of the biggest oil and industrial deals this year.  The firm advised Texas oil pump maker  Lufkin Industries
Inc. (LUFK)  on its $3.3 billion sale to General Electric Co., announced
yesterday. Simmons, alongside UBS AG, advised private-equity
firm KKR & Co. on its $3.7 billion offer last month for
industrial-equipment maker  Gardner Denver Inc. (GDI)   The Lufkin deal helped Simmons crack the top 10 in advising
on energy mergers & acquisitions this year, compared with 30th
in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That and the
Gardner Denver transaction are Simmons’s largest since 2007,
when the firm won a role on Transocean Ltd.’s $17 billion
purchase of GlobalSantaFe Corp., data show.  Simmons, run by Chief Executive Officer Mike Frazier, has
now worked on more than $7 billion in deals this year, eclipsing
2012’s more than $5 billion. The firm, which specializes in oil
and gas services transactions, was founded almost 40 years ago
by Matthew Simmons, a well-known advocate of the “peak oil”
theory that posits the earth is running out of the fuel. He died
at 67 in an accidental drowning in 2010.  CEO Frazier declined to comment on this article through
Libby Covington, a spokeswoman for Simmons.  Evercore Partners Inc., another boutique advisory firm,
currently holds the top spot in advising on energy M&A this year
with $11.8 billion in transactions, bolstered by the $2.4
billion takeover of Berry Petroleum Co. by Linn Energy LLC,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The biggest deal so far
this year in the energy sector is Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s
agreement in February to buy liquefied natural gas assets from
Repsol SA for $4.4 billion.  Historical M&A  The strongest year for energy M&A was 2011, led by Kinder
Morgan Inc.’s October agreement to buy El Paso Corp. for $21.1
billion. There have been more than $60 billion in global energy
deals so far this year, a more than 20 percent decline from the
same period a year earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In
the industrial sector, there have been more than $90 billion in
transactions in 2013.  Global M&A stumbled last quarter as transactions slowed in
March, data compiled by Bloomberg showed. Deals shrank to $485.5
billion, a 32 percent decline from the year-earlier period, as
the proposed takeovers of icons such as Dell Inc. and H.J. Heinz
Co. failed to spark a rally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Monks in  New York  at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  