-- Lundin Petroleum Finds New Oilfield in Norwegian North Sea
-- B y   W i l l   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-04-08T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/lundin-petroleum-finds-new-oil-field-in-norway-s-north-sea.html
Lundin Petroleum AB (LUPE)  discovered oil
in  Norway ’s  North Sea , claiming a new field in an area that
yielded one of the country’s largest recent finds.  The Luno II exploration well discovered oil-bearing sands
with a 40-meter (130-foot) column of “good quality” crude, the
company said today in a statement. “Luno II appears to be
another significant discovery,” Chief Executive Officer Ashley Heppenstal said.  Lundin, which holds 40 percent of the license, also owns a
stake in the eastern half of the Johan Sverdrup field, which is
potentially the biggest find off Norway since 1974. That
deposit, which may hold as much as 3.6 billion barrels of oil,
has revived interest in exploring the country’s coastal waters.  Lundin rose 3.6 percent to close at 145.6 kronor in
Stockholm trading. The company operates the Luno II license,
while U.K. explorer  Premier Oil Plc (PMO)  and Norway’s  Statoil ASA (STL) 
hold 30 percent each.  “The reservoir quality, whilst not the same as Johan
Sverdrup, appears good and will now be tested,” Lundin said.  The Stockholm-based company, which had previously given an
estimate of unrisked, gross, prospective resources of 139
million barrels of oil equivalent for Luno II, expects to
announce recoverable resources within three weeks.  Based on Lundin’s estimates before drilling, the discovery
may be valued at 5 kronor to 7 kronor a share for the company
and 0.35 kroner to 0.45 kroner a share for Statoil, Swedbank
First Securities said in a note to clients. The broker, which
recommends buying both stocks, said it expects Lundin to make
more finds in the area.  “With the company’s long-term hit ratio of 50 percent, we
think several discoveries in this area are likely,” said Teodor Sveen Nilsen, an analyst at Swedbank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Kennedy in London at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  