-- Hungary Central Bank VP Kiraly Quite, Citing Overhaul
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-04-08T13:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/hungary-central-bank-vp-kiraly-quite-citing-overhaul.html
Hungarian central bank Vice
President Julia Kiraly submitted her resignation, saying the
bank’s credibility was being jeopardized by new Magyar Nemzeti
Bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy’s overhaul of the institution.  “I wish to signal the seriousness of the situation with my
resignation,” Kiraly wrote in letter to Hungarian President
Janos Ader that she handed out to reporters in Budapest today.
The overhaul “could cause serious damage not only to the
National Bank of  Hungary , but in the longer term also to the
Hungarian economy.”  Matolcsy has consolidated his power at the central bank,
barring previously appointed deputies from independently
representing the institution and giving himself the power to
decide all appointments and firings. Last week, he gave only 35
minutes to the Monetary Council to study a new funding for
growth plan the bank started to boost growth, Kiraly said.  The removal of “key people from top positions,” the
appointment of MNB Vice President Adam Balog, who “does not
have appropriate knowledge and professional experience in
monetary and financial issues” to oversee financial stability
and monetary policy, and the shortening of Monetary Council
meetings may all contribute to “jeopardize the domestic and
international reputation of the MNB,” Kiraly said.  The forint rose 0.3 percent to 297.63 per euro by 3:45 p.m.
in Budapest, extending last week’s gains, the biggest in nine
months. The yield on the government’s 10-year bond fell 13 basis
points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 5.888 percent, the lowest
since Sept. 2005, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Kiraly’s resignation will take effect April 22 at the
latest, or earlier if a new vice president is appointed sooner,
she told reporters in Budapest today. Her six-year term was due
to end on July 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  