-- Hungary Bans Anti-Semitic Rally on Holocaust Memorial Day
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-04-08T15:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/hungary-should-scrap-anti-semitic-demo-jewish-group-says.html
Hungary  banned a rally organized
under the slogan “Give Gas” that was planned to coincide with
a Holocaust memorial march after a Jewish group complained that
it amounted to a call for genocide.  Budapest police will deploy “all legal means” to stop the
rally by bikers, whose “provocative” name and timing is “an
offense,” according to the statement. Prime Minister Viktor Orban had called for the ban, saying the protest was an affront
to human dignity, state news service MTI reported today.  The name of the Apr. 21 rally, which would pass in front of
the capital’s main synagogue, “unequivocally refers to the
tortuous deaths of more than 400,000 of our compatriots killed
in Auschwitz with poisonous gas and is a call to repeat these
harrowing deeds,” Hungarian Jewish group Mazsihisz said in a
 statement  on its website. The bikers, who describe themselves as
“patriotic,” called it a “simple demonstration,” according
to a posting on their Facebook page.  Antisemitism has been on the rise in Hungary, with the
radical nationalist Jobbik party now the third-biggest party in
Parliament. Jobbik lawmaker Marton Gyongyosi on Nov. 26 called
for a list to be drawn up of Jewish legislators and government
members who pose a “national security risk.” More than 500,000
Hungarians, mostly Jews, were killed in the Holocaust, according
to the Budapest-based Holocaust Memorial Center.  ‘Obviously Provocative’  The motorcycle protest, coinciding with the annual “March
of the Living,” is “obviously provocative,” Antal Rogan, head
of Prime Minister Viktor Orban’s parliamentary group, said in a
statement yesterday. It was “extraordinarily tasteless” and he
“deeply condemned” it, Rogan said.  Last month, the government decorated television journalist
Ferenc Szaniszlo, whose program was fined for antisemitic and
anti-Roma messages. The government asked the journalist to
return the award after protests by Israel and the U.S.  Jewish groups criticized the government last year for
expanding the reading curriculum for schools to include books by
Jozsef Nyiro, a member of Parliament during World War II and an
ally of Ferenc Szalasi, a former head of the fascist Arrow Cross
party who was executed for war crimes. Parliament speaker Laszlo Kover, who co-founded the ruling Fidesz party along with Orban,
organized a reburial ceremony for Nyiro last year. The
government has denied seeking to legitimize anti-Semitic views.  ‘Far-Right Fringe’  Stung by the international criticism, the government
invited members of the International Holocaust Remembrance
Alliance to visit in July and sent officials to the U.S. to meet
with Jewish groups. In January, European and Israeli officials
from the Inter-parliamentary Coalition for Combating
Antisemitism met with officials in Budapest.  Orban “panders to the far-right fringe of Hungarian
politics,” Ronald S. Lauder, president of the World Jewish
Congress, said in an  article  published by Suddeutsche Zeitung on
April 4, which was posted on the organization’s website. The WJC
will hold its Plenary Assembly next month in Budapest in a
“strong signal” that Hungary is on a “dangerous track,”
Lauder said.  Orban accepted an invitation to participate in the meeting,
MTI state news service reported this weekend, citing Bertalan
Havasi, the premier’s press chief.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  