-- Uranium Explorer Toro in Talks With Seven Possible Asia Partners
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-04-08T04:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/uranium-explorer-toro-in-talks-with-seven-possible-asia-partners.html
Toro Energy Ltd. (TOE) , the uranium
explorer planning a A$269 million ($279 million) project in
Western Australia, said it’s in talks with seven potential
partners in Japan, China and South Korea.  Toro plans to bring in a company to help develop the Wiluna
uranium mine before reaching an investment decision to go ahead
with the project by the end of 2013, Managing Director Vanessa Guthrie said by phone today from Perth. Toro, whose project won
Australian government approval last week, expects to offer a
stake ranging from about 30 percent to more than 50 percent of
the mine as part of a supply agreement, she said.  Wiluna, the first new Australian uranium mine to receive
state and federal approval in about four years, is expected to
start production by the end of 2015, in time to benefit from a
looming supply deficit, the Adelaide-based company said April 2.
Toro’s uranium project, located about 1,000 kilometers (620
miles) northeast of Perth, has drawn interest from Asian trading
companies and nuclear utilities, Guthrie said.  “We’re seeing a supply shortfall from 2016 onwards
starting to drive potential partners and customers to look to
secure supply,” she said, declining to identify any possible
partners by name. “For new uranium projects, there are very few
that are going to start in that window.”  Lower prices have slowed development of some projects.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  last year deferred a decision to expand the
Olympic Dam uranium and copper mine in Australia.  Cameco Corp. (CCO) 
earlier this year reported a C$168 million ($165 million)
writedown on its Kintyre project in Australia, reiterating that
it wouldn’t be viable without a uranium price of about $67 a
pound.  Uranium traded at $42.15 a pound on April 5, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The nuclear fuel traded at $67.50
before the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami struck Japan,
triggering the worst atomic disaster since Chernobyl in 1986.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  