-- Turkey February Industrial Production Unexpectedly Rises
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2013-04-08T09:39:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/turkey-february-industrial-production-unexpectedly-rises.html
Turkey ’s adjusted  industrial
production  growth rose to 4.4 percent in February, beating
expectations and signaling a pickup in economic activity after
last year’s  slump .  Industrial production rose 1.5 percent over the previous
month and 1.7 percent over the previous year when not adjusted
for working days, according to figures published by the official
statistics agency in Ankara today. The median estimate of five
economists in a Bloomberg survey called for a 2.4 percent
workday-adjusted expansion.  “The industrial production performance in the first two
months of this year seems to draw a better picture than the one
observed in the final quarter of 2012,” Gokce Celik, an
economist at Finansbank AS in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed
report after the data was published today. “The recovery in the
domestic demand that started in the final quarter of 2012 has
started to be transmitted into economic activity as of the
beginning of this year.”  Turkey’s gross domestic product expanded by 1.4 percent in
the fourth quarter last year, the slowest pace since 2009, as
central bank efforts to cut the current-account deficit
depressed domestic demand. The economy grew 2.2 percent in the
full year to $786.3 billion, according to data released by the
statistics office on April 1.  Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan blamed the central bank for
the slump in an interview with CNBC-e today, saying it was late
to cut  interest rates  and support government growth goals. He
said Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  also supported that
view.  The central bank should cut its benchmark policy rate as
the government targets a 4 percent expansion in GDP this year,
Caglayan said.  Yields on benchmark two-year Turkish notes dropped 12 basis
points to 5.97 percent at 12:05 p.m. in Istanbul, falling for a
fourth day. The lira gained 0.1 percent to 1.7914 against the
dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  