-- Venezuela to Hold New Dollar Auction After Election This Month
-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2013-04-08T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/venezuela-to-hold-new-dollar-auction-after-election-this-month.html
Venezuela will hold a second dollar
auction on a complementary currency system created last month
after presidential elections are held on April 14, Oil Minister
 Rafael Ramirez  told reporters yesterday during an interview.  The South American country won’t publish the exchange rate
used in future auctions, he said. It will publish a set schedule
and plans to make it easier for importers to participate in the
process, Ramirez, who sits on a new currency supervising board,
said from his Caracas office.  “Companies involved in the process know the parallel
exchange rate does not represent the economy,” Ramirez said.
“The first dollar auction was a test run.”  Venezuela, which is seeking to arrest the decline of its
bolivar currency on the black market after a February
devaluation, plans to create an electronic system for students
and health-care patients to obtain dollars at the official
 exchange rate , Ramirez said, without providing additional
information. The country sold $200 million to importers in a
March 27 dollar auction without revealing the exchange rate
used.  The bolivar has declined about 24 percent on the black
market this year, according to Dolar Today, a website that
tracks the exchange rate on the Venezuelan border with  Colombia .
The currency currently trades at about 23 per dollar on the
black market, compared with 6.3 on the Cadivi system reserved
for importers of essential items, such as medicine.  Petroleos de Venezuela SA , of which Ramirez is also
president, transferred $39.4 billion to the central bank in 2012
and will transfer $41.5 billion this year, he said. Acting
President  Nicolas Maduro  faces opposition candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski in a snap election on April 14 after former
President  Hugo Chavez  died last month.  No Bonds  PDVSA, as the Caracas-based company is called, is not
planning to sell new dollar bonds this year and will ask joint
venture partners to finance at least $8 billion of a $25-billion
investment plan, Ramirez said. The company is continuing to
negotiate loans from  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and companies in  China ,
 Spain ,  Russia  and  Japan , Ramirez said.  “Loans from partners are more advantageous,” Ramirez
said, adding that  interest rates  for financing from partners
averages about 6 percent.  PDVSA had revenue of $124.4 billion in 2012, down from
$124.8 billion in 2011, while profit decreased to $4.2 billion
from $4.5 billion, Ramirez said last month.  “The decline in revenue does not worry us,” Ramirez said
yesterday, attributing the drop to increased sales of subsidized
fuel in  Venezuela .  Drilling Rigs  Venezuela produced 3.03 million barrels of oil and natural
gas liquids a day in 2012, compared with 3.13 million in 2011,
Ramirez said, adding that the company was working to increase
production capacity to 3.25 million barrels a day by the end of
the year. There are currently 330 drilling rigs operating in the
country, he said.  “We’re not going to increase production, because that
would go against OPEC policy, which has a global ceiling of 30
million barrels a day of oil,” Ramirez said, adding that he
thought the market was oversupplied. “We’re going to maintain
our firm policy to defend the price of oil. There are currently
crude inventories above the 5-year average, and we think that’s
dangerous for the price of oil.”  All OPEC countries are in agreement that the price of oil
should be around $100 a barrel, he said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  