-- Virginia’s Contract-Fat Fairfax Digs In for Leaner Years
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-04-09T14:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/virginia-s-contract-fat-fairfax-digs-in-for-leaner-years.html
(Corrects location of Urban Land Institute in 19th
paragraph)  When Mobil Corp. quit midtown
 Manhattan  for 130 green acres in Fairfax County,  Virginia , its
new neighbors included country stores, dairy farms and a highway
that ringed the nation’s capital. Mobil brought hope that the
suburb could break free of its  Washington  ties to build its own
world-class economy.  More than 26 years later, the largest U.S. oil company --
now  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  -- is leaving Fairfax and the county is
more dependent upon the U.S. government than ever. Even as prize
employers including  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and Hilton Worldwide Inc.
opened shop, federal spending as a share of the county’s economy
has almost doubled since 2002, to 14.4 percent. Last year, the
U.S. funneled more procurement dollars to Fairfax than anywhere
else, almost $28 billion.  Now, the county of 1.1 million people, whose $194 billion
economy is bigger than Hungary’s, is bracing for its share of
federal spending cuts, known as sequestration, that began last
month. Localities reliant on federal dollars, from Fairfax to
Pine Bluff,  Arkansas , will take a disproportionate hit from
reductions that Goldman Sachs & Co. in  New York  estimates will
subtract 0.6 percentage point from U.S. economic growth this
year.  “There was a day where we couldn’t fathom that there would
be a retreat of federal programs,” said Sharon Bulova, a
Democrat who has led the Fairfax Board of Supervisors since
2009. “It’s become obvious that our closeness to the federal
government is both good news and bad news.”  Difficulty Weaning  Fairfax’s wealth and educated  workforce , with median family
income of $119,634 and 29 percent of its 25-and-older population
holding graduate degrees, will help it avoid hard times. Still,
sequestration will test those strengths and offer a lesson in
how difficult it can be for even a well-managed  economy  to wean
itself from a single big spender like the U.S. government.  Payrolls in the U.S. grew by 88,000 in March, less than
forecast, in a sign that  federal budget  cuts may be sapping
growth in the world’s largest economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose 0.6 percent at 4 p.m., reversing a slump from April 5
that followed the Labor Department’s release of the payroll
figures. German industrial production rebounded, while in Japan,
a measure of  sentiment  matched a record high as the Bank of
Japan’s stimulus bolstered the outlook for the world’s third-
biggest economy.  Since 2004, Fairfax has been the nation’s top recipient of
federal contract dollars, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Four of the county’s top six employers --  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) ,  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) ,  Northrop
Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and  SAIC Inc. (SAI)  -- are among the 20 biggest federal
vendors.  Moody’s Warning  The county’s fortunes are so aligned with the government’s
that Moody’s Investors Service has said Fairfax’s Aaa bond
rating could be hurt if  U.S. debt  is downgraded.  “We’ve ridden this horse as far as we can, and it was a
good ride,” said  Stephen Fuller , director of the  Center for
Regional Analysis  at  George Mason University  in Fairfax. “Now
we have to change horses.”  Direct government employment alone accounts for about 6
percent of the county’s workforce, according to the Census
Bureau. That doesn’t include thousands more jobs at private
vendors that depend on the government. Replacing any that are
lost won’t be easy. A federal contract employee contributes
about $135,000 to the local economy, Fuller said. In contrast, a
hospital worker contributes about $55,000.  “You need more than two of them to make up for one worker
in the federal sector,” said Fuller, who wrote a report on
defense budget cuts for the Aerospace Industries Association,
one of sequestration’s chief critics.  Significant Impact  When Fairfax passed this year’s budget, it assumed
sequestration would be avoided. Now, the $7 billion spending
plan for fiscal 2014 calls sequestration’s impact
“significant” and “largely unknown.” To prepare, the
proposed  budget  includes a real-estate tax increase that would
add $262 to the average resident’s annual bill.  “It may not sound horrible, but it means something to
people who are being furloughed or being laid off,” Bulova
said. “There aren’t a whole lot of options available.”  Fairfax isn’t unique. Hundreds of localities, from  Los
Angeles  to Shoals, Indiana, where almost half of all jobs are
with the U.S. government, depend on a military base, agency or
federal project to fund schools, pay police salaries and keep
their economies humming. Federal spending on procurement,
salaries and wages accounts for more than 10 percent of the
economies of New Mexico, Alaska, Hawaii, Maryland and Virginia,
according to the  Pew Center on the States .  Weapons Stockpile  While federal outlays are only 3.4 percent of the economy
in Arkansas, sequestration could have a disproportionate impact
in places like Pine Bluff, which has watched its fortunes
decline for a decade as the U.S. Army shutters its chemical
weapons stockpile. Unemployment is 10.5 percent, and more than
1,000 jobs will be gone by the end of this year.  “They saw it coming,” said Rick Maher, president and
chief executive officer of Maher & Maher in Neptune,  New Jersey ,
which is helping Pine Bluff recruit new employers. “They knew
the chemical weapons program had an end date. And yet they felt
stunned.”  Areas hit by sequestration won’t have a decade to plan.  Crisis Helps  “It helps to have a crisis,” said Patrick L. Phillips,
chief executive officer at the Urban Land Institute, a
Washington-based research group that studies development issues.
“You can talk all you want about diversification and everyone
understands that in an intellectual sense, but when it’s looking
you in the face it’s a call to action.”  In the 1960s and 1970s -- and before Mobil’s arrival in
1987 -- Fairfax residents could work for the federal government,
provide services for those who did, or move somewhere else. With
a negligible non-government business base, the county struggled
to build schools and provide services for a growing population.  It did have lots of open land and a highway straight to the
Pentagon. Some procurement contracts required vendors to be
within 30 minutes or 30 miles of the Defense Department’s
headquarters, a prerequisite that Fairfax capitalized on.  By the 1980s, companies catering to the federal government
crowded a corridor that reached nearly 20 miles from the
county’s eastern border near the Pentagon to Dulles
International Airport in the west.  One of the first to arrive was PRC Inc., a technology
contractor that relocated from Los Angeles in the 1960s.  Tom Davis  was PRC’s general counsel and served on the Fairfax County
Board of Supervisors from 1980 to 1994.  Contractor Cash  “Office space was less expensive, we were close to the
Pentagon, we had a great school system. It all seemed to
click,” said Davis, a Republican. “You could try to diversify
the economy, but the marketplace dictated government contracting
could beat everyone else out. Government contractors had the
cash.”  As Fairfax capitalized on its proximity to Washington, its
dependence on contractors grew. Even when the dot-com boom of
the 1990s gave rise to locally based Internet giants like  AOL
Inc. (AOL)  and UUNET Technologies Inc., federal procurement’s share of
the Fairfax economy expanded, peaking at 14.6 percent in 2011,
up from 4.2 percent in 1991, according to Fuller.  “This will be better for Fairfax in the long run because
it will push them to diversify faster,” he said. “Now there’s
an imperative. They’ve had the capacity to do it, they just
didn’t need to.”  Government contractors already are taking steps to adjust
by doing their own diversifying, said Mark Moore, executive vice
president and chief lending officer at  John Marshall Bank (JMSB)  in
Reston. The bank’s customers, many of them vendors to U.S.
agencies, are beefing up their cash cushions and looking for new
lines of business.  Diversifying Revenue  “They’re trying to diversify their revenue streams into
more stable or growth-oriented sectors of the federal
government,” Moore said.  SAIC, an engineering and information technology contractor
in McLean, is one example. As the nation’s eighth-largest
contractor, it relies on the U.S. government for about 90
percent of its revenue. In August, SAIC announced plans to break
into two companies to better compete for a shrinking pool of
government business. In December, it said it would cut 700
employees.  Business Workshops  Government and contract employees have been showing up at
small-business workshops hosted by the Fairfax County Economic
Development Authority. Chief Executive Officer Gerald Gordon
said he believes many of them are preparing for furloughs or
layoffs.  As cheerleader-in-chief, Gordon is naturally upbeat. While
the county needs to diversify its economy, he said, government
spending cuts aren’t the same as, say, a shuttered steel mill or
auto plant. Unemployment in the county was just 3.7 percent at
the end of last year, less than half the current national rate
of 7.6 percent.  “Being a government town is still a good deal,” he said.  These days he’s excited about the efforts of another big
Fairfax employer, Inova Health System, a not-for-profit hospital
network that in 2010 began a project to collect genetic data as
a way to advance patient care. The institute is mapping the
genes of 2,500 families in Fairfax County to try to identify
diseases and health abnormalities.  Exxon Mobil’s relocation of its Fairfax offices to Houston
could even turn out to be a boon for Inova, whose flagship
medical center is outgrowing its space right across the street,
Bulova said.  “Their loss isn’t catastrophic,” Bulova said. “In fact,
the vacancy of their space will afford us some new
opportunities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  