-- Vitol Sells More Forties; Main North Sea Crudes May Fall
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-04-08T16:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/vitol-sells-more-forties-main-north-sea-crudes-may-fall.html
Vitol Group sold a cargo of Forties
crude in the  North Sea  market to Morgan Stanley, bringing its
total to seven since March 28.  Daily shipments of North Sea crude for loading in May will
drop by 5 percent from April, according to programs obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  North Sea  Vitol sold the Forties shipment for loading April 24 to
April 26 at 30 cents a barrel less than Dated Brent, according
to a Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers monitoring the
Platts pricing window. That’s 5 cents lower than a trade in the
previous session.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. Forties loading in
10 to 25 days narrowed by 4 cents to a discount of 21 cents a
barrel to Dated Brent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the smallest spread since March 19.  Brent for May settlement traded at $104.07 a barrel on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London  at the close of the
window, compared with $104.73 in the previous session. The June
contract was at $104.19, a premium of 12 cents to May.  Shipments of Brent, Forties, Oseberg, Ekofisk, Statfjord,
Gullfaks, Alvheim, Aasgard, DUC, Flotta, Grane and Troll blends
will total 58.8 million barrels, or 1.9 million barrels a day,
compared with 2 million this month, according to the plans.  Norwegian unions and employers reached an agreement in
collective-bargaining talks that extended beyond a midnight
deadline, averting a strike that could have curbed oil
production for the second time in less than a year.  Mediterranean/Urals  No bids or offers were declared for Russian Urals crude for
a second trading day, according to the survey of brokers
monitoring Platts. The grade was bid in the Mediterranean on
April 4 at discounts of 70 cents to $1 a barrel to Dated Brent
and last traded at minus 90 cents on Feb. 22.  The Urals discount to Dated Brent in the Mediterranean was
unchanged at 75 cents a barrel, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s the least since Feb. 4. In northwest  Europe , the  discount 
was unchanged at $2.15 a barrel.  West Africa  Benchmark Nigerian Qua Iboe blend dropped 10 cents to $3.50
a barrel more than Dated Brent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s largest refiner, issued a
tender to buy crude for June loading, a document obtained by
Bloomberg News shows.  The company bought 1 million barrels each of  Nigeria ’s
Bonga and Forcados crudes from Trafigura Beheer BV and the same
amount of Abu Dhabi’s Murban grade from Total SA in a previous
tender for June loading, according to four traders who asked not
to be identified as the information is confidential.  Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd. purchased 650,000
barrels of  Gabon ’s Rabi Light from Royal Dutch Shell Plc and the
same amount of Upper Zakum from Itochu Corp. for loading May 1
to May 15, the traders said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  