-- Was the Iraq Invasion Worthwhile? Ask an Iraqi
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-04-08T22:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/was-the-iraq-invasion-worthwhile-ask-an-iraqi-jeffrey-goldberg.html
In a recent  interview  with the  New
York  Times, the writer Toni Morrison said, “I dare you to tell
me a sane reason we went to  Iraq .”  Her request is not unreasonable. We’ve heard similar
arguments a lot over the past few weeks, as we marked the 10th
anniversary of the war. There is widespread agreement that the
American invasion of Iraq was provoked by a series of lies,
neuroses, venalities and delusions.  And so much of what has happened over the past 10 years in
Iraq has been undeniably disastrous. The cost in Iraqi and
American blood and treasure is appalling, and the damage done to
our country’s reputation -- and to the ideas that animate
liberal interventionism -- may be irreparable. (Just ask the
people of Syria, who are struggling against tyranny without much
help from the U.S.)  One thing I’ve noticed over the past two weeks, however, is
that Iraqis themselves haven’t often been asked about their
opinion of the war. Iraq, after President  George W. Bush  failed
to accomplish his mission, was a place of violence and chaos,
but before the invasion, it was a charnel house.  Saddam Hussein ’s regime murdered as many as 1 million Iraqis in its
years in absolute power. Many Americans forget this. Most Iraqis
don’t.  Torture Chambers  The New Yorker’s Dexter Filkins, who wrote the best book on
Iraq (“The Forever War”), recently recalled a visit, shortly
after the invasion, to one of Saddam’s torture chambers, a place
called Al Hakemiya. He met a man there who identified himself as
Al-Musawi. The two visited a room where Al-Musawi’s “arms had
been nearly torn from their sockets.” He had been hung from the
ceiling and electrocuted.  “Today, in 2013 -- a decade later -- it’s not fashionable
to suggest that the American invasion of Iraq served any useful
purpose,”  Filkins continued . “But what are we to make of Iraqis
like Al-Musawi? Or of torture chambers like Al Hakemiya? Where
do we place them in our memories? And, more important, how
should they shape our judgment of the war we waged?”  His suggestion: “Ask the Iraqis -- that is, if anyone, in
this moment of American navel-gazing, can be bothered to do so.”  I took Filkins’s charge to heart, and asked another
graduate of Saddam’s torture chambers, a man named Barham Salih,
what he thought of the invasion, 10 years on.  Today, Salih is the chairman of the board of the American
University of Iraq in Sulaimani, which provides a liberal
education in a place not previously known for such a phenomenon.
In recent years, Salih has served as both the deputy prime
minister of Iraq and as prime minister of the Kurdish regional
government. He was in the camp of people who argued that
Saddam’s decision to commit genocide against Iraqi Kurds
(sometimes with chemical weapons) in the late 1980s made his
removal a moral imperative.  I asked him if he thought the invasion was worth it.  “From the perspective of the Kurdish people -- and I dare
say the majority of the Iraqi people -- it was worth it,” he
said. “War is never a good option, but given our history and the
brutality of Saddam’s regime, it may have been the only other
option to end the  genocidal campaign  waged by Saddam against the
Kurds and other communities in Iraq.”  Here is where his answer became a lament. “I must admit,
however, that 10 years on, Iraq’s transition is, to say the
least, characterized by unrealized expectations, both for Iraqis
and for our American liberators. Iraq is not the friendly
democracy that the U.S. had hoped for, and it is far from the
secure, inclusive democracy that Iraqis deserved and aspired
to.”  ‘Inherent Danger’  He went on to blame Iraqis, rather than Americans, for the
failures of the past decade. “Much can be said about U.S.
missteps and miscalculations in this process, but there is no
denying that Iraqi political leadership bears prime
responsibility for squandering a unique opportunity to deliver
to their people. This has been nothing short of a drastic
failure of leadership on our part! The Kurdistan region offers
hope that all is not lost in Iraq.”  I asked Salih to answer the argument that the Kurds -- who
make up almost 20 percent of Iraq’s population -- were, by 2003,
mainly living in relative safety in a region protected by an
American-enforced no-fly zone. In other words, the invasion
wasn’t a humanitarian necessity at that moment.  “All Iraqis lived under a regime that had complete disdain
for human life,” he said. “Executions and killings continued at
will. Thousands of Iraqis were being sent to the mass graves.
The Kurds were never safe as they knew that Saddam could at any
time decide to reconquer the no-fly zone.”  He went on, “Saddam was a menace to the Kurds, to the other
Iraqi communities, and an inherent danger to the region. He was,
from our perspective in this part of the world, a grave and
mortal danger that we could never be safe from while he was
still around.”  I take Toni Morrison’s beliefs seriously. The serial and
tragic mistakes of the  Bush administration , and the naivete of
people like me, make questioning the value of the invasion
necessary. I thought that Iraq, with competent American help,
could make the transition to at least semi-democracy, even after
suffering such physical and psychological damage during the
bleak years of Saddam’s reign. But those who believe the
invasion was an act of insanity -- especially those who fashion
themselves as advocates for human rights, dignity and liberation
-- should at least ask Saddam’s many victims for their opinion
on the matter before rendering final judgment.  I would encourage Morrison, too, to talk to Iraqi victims.
I’m sure the  American University in Sulaimani  would be happy to
give her a visiting professorship.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 