-- Why Thatcher Wouldn’t Succeed in Our ‘Lean In’ Culture
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2013-04-08T19:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/why-thatcher-wouldn-t-succeed-in-our-lean-in-culture.html
There could never be another “ Iron
Lady .”  That was the first thought that came to some minds today
with the news that  Margaret Thatcher , the U.K.’s great prime
minister, had died.  This is an odd reaction. Women in the developed world now
routinely hold more top jobs than they did in 1975, when the 
49-year-old Thatcher first assumed  leadership  of the 
 Conservative Party . The No. 1 bestseller on the  New York  Times 
list is “Lean In,” by a woman holding one of the highest of 
those positions, Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer 
of  Facebook Inc. (FB)   A look at what Sandberg, the granddaughter of a retailer,
recommends and what  Thatcher , a grocer’s daughter, did, reveals
similarities. But there are also such great differences between
the two women that you wonder whether a Thatcher might make it
today in politics or at a publicly traded company.  Sandberg  advises women to learn from female mentors, and
Thatcher certainly did. Her tutor at Oxford University, the
scientist Dorothy Hodgkin, encouraged the young Margaret Roberts
to logically work through problems to their conclusion. That is
so Sandberg: Sheryl plans her career moves in an Excel
spreadsheet.  Taking Risks  Sandberg admonishes younger women to “lean in,” to push
harder at work, in order to advance. Thatcher did lean in, and
up, ascending by force the lowest rungs of the Tory ladder,
starting with the Oxford University Conservative Association as
a student. Sandberg specifically counsels women to take risks
early and Thatcher certainly did that, too. While still in her
20s, Thatcher dared to run twice for office in a  Labour Party 
stronghold, Dartford, and lost both times. Nor did Thatcher
temper her risk-taking as she rose.  Her party tended to cave and reverse policy under political
pressure, but not Thatcher: “This lady’s not for turning,” she
famously declared.  As a Cabinet member or prime minister, she pushed for
budget cuts when her advisers, including influential U.S.
supply-siders, advised her to emphasize tax cuts. “Pennies
don’t fall from heaven,” Thatcher said in 1979, the year she
took office. “They have to be earned here on Earth.” Under her
guidance, the U.K. cut spending with a vigor that  Ronald Reagan 
admired.  “Sit at the table,” is another key Sandberg precept and
Thatcher did a splendid job at that. A genius at political
timing, Thatcher very early sensed that the moment to grab a
power seat was when the table was in disarray, as in the 1970s,
when the Tories were flailing.  Thatcher also ruled at the diplomatic table, and even
served as a kingmaker. “I like Mr. Gorbachev,” she said in
1984, when  Mikhail Gorbachev  was still merely an influential
Politburo member. “We can do business together.”  We don’t know how much the Thatcher seal of approval
contributed to Gorbachev’s elevation to general secretary of the
Politburo a few months later, but it undoubtedly helped. Her
partnership with Gorbachev, in turn, made it possible to bring
about the end of the  Soviet Union . Her encouragement to
President  George H.W. Bush  -- “George, don’t go wobbly on me”
-- helped the allies conclude the first war in  Iraq .  But if Thatcher knew how to take her place at the table,
she also knew how to walk away. The most spectacular instance of
her doing so was in  Bruges  in 1988, when she made it clear the
U.K. wasn’t willing to join the nations of continental  Europe  in
building up the social welfare state.  Resisting Europe  “We have not successfully rolled back the frontiers of the
state of Britain only to see them reimposed on a European level
with a European super state exercising a new dominance from
Brussels,” she said.  Thatcher paid gloriously little heed to social fashion. She
was known as a man’s man, and even one who harassed men she
suspected might be vulnerable: When I worked in the U.K. in the
1980s, more than once I heard a male Tory say of another, “she
made him cry.”  That same rough style might disqualify a rising Thatcher
today. Over and again, today’s leaders counsel their pupils,
especially the female ones, to network and get along, and focus
on discrimination. “Many people believe that the workplace is
still a meritocracy,” writes Sandberg, suggesting that the
people who hold such beliefs are blind or wrong.  “It’s heartbreaking,” Sandberg also maintains, “to think
about one woman holding another back.” Indeed it is, but an
emphasis on woman-to-woman help tends to reward the get-along
women rather than the aggressive ones.  Which brings us to the largest obstacle to today’s Iron
Ladies: the emphasis on corporate or government process. As
Sandberg laboriously notes,  Harvard Business School , which
already famously focused on teamwork and consensus, has lately
emphasized teamwork even more. It’s hard to imagine Thatcher
(“Defeat? I do not recognize the word”) thriving at HBS.  The result of the collaborative culture is that
corporations or government institutions focus intensely on
internal culture and pour their energy into achieving minuscule
policy changes relating to workplace efficiency, gender or race.
The great victory with which future Thatcher biographers are
likely to open their accounts is her winning back the Falkland
Islands from the Argentine junta. The great victory with which
Sandberg opens her book was getting  Google Inc. (GOOG)  to establish
reserved parking for pregnant women.  The one area in the U.S. where new Thatchers might arise is
private companies, especially ones they themselves found. That
is where they won’t be bogged down by process or political
correctness. To these future Iron Ladies, one can imagine
Thatcher advising: “The goal is not to lean in, though
certainly that’s necessary. The goal is to move mountains.”  ( Amity Shlaes , director of the Bush Center Four Percent
Growth Project, is the author of “Coolidge,” published by
HarperCollins, and a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  