-- Two Basic Energy Workers Killed After Texas Well Blowout
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-04-08T20:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/two-workers-killed-after-basic-energy-anadarko-see-well-blowout.html
Two  Basic Energy Services Inc. (BAS) 
employees were killed and two others remain hospitalized in West
 Texas  after an April 5 blowout at an  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) 
oil and natural gas well.  “It appears that the pressure from the well caused the
explosion at the wellhead,” Alan Krenek, chief financial
officer at Fort Worth, Texas-based Basic Energy, said in a phone
interview today. The job involved a workover rig, which is used
to go back into a well to boost production.  Basic Energy provides drilling, pumping and fluid services
to help oil and gas companies like Anadarko produce from wells.
The company has about 5,600 workers at wells in Texas,
Louisiana, Oklahoma and  New Mexico  and other states, according
to a Feb. 27 regulatory filing.  The Ward County Sheriff’s Office received a report of the
blowout east of Barstow, Texas, about 9 a.m. local time on April
5, according to a faxed statement. University Medical Center in
Lubbock, Texas, said two of the workers named in the statement
remain patients today.  “Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their
families,” Krenek said. “Basic is doing all that’s possible
for them.”  The well was shut in and the cause of the blowout is being
investigated, according to the sheriff’s office.  “We are heartsick by this tragic event and are praying for
the contractors and their families,”  John Christiansen , a
spokesman for The Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko, said in an e-
mail.  Basic Energy rose 2.3 percent to $12.29 at the close in New
York. Anadarko climbed 1.8 percent to $86.55.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  