-- Women Choose Mates by Shoulder Size First, Research Suggests
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-04-08T20:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/women-choose-mates-by-shoulder-size-first-research-suggests.html
Size matters when women look for a
mate, a study finds, whether it’s the size of a man’s shoulders
versus his hips, his height or anywhere else.  That’s the conclusion of Australian and Canadian scientists
who studied what women look for in men. The  research , published
in the Proceedings of the  National Academy of Sciences , was done
to help develop a better understanding of sexual selection.  About 80 percent of 105 women queried cited a wide
shoulder-to-hip ratio as being attractive, the study found, with
the other 20 percent split equally between height and flaccid
penis size. The researchers generated computer models in order
to assess responses to various body dimensions.  “Mating behavior in general is important,” said
Brian Mautz, a post-doctoral researcher in biology at the
University of Ottawa,  Canada  who was the study author.  Facial symmetry and body shape are known to play a role in
sexual selection. While the importance of the shoulder-to-hip
ratio and of height is consistent with previous research, the
finding on penis size was a surprise, Mautz said.  “Height and penis size had the same effect, and to me,
that’s surprising,” Mautz said in a telephone interview. “We
know taller men make more money, are more likely to have
leadership positions and have more children. To have penis size
have the equivalent effect was just, wow.”  Other things that may influence male attractiveness include
body hair, movement, and other physical cues, Mautz said. This
study “opens the door” to look at those as well, he said.  The researchers were funded by the Australian Research
Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  