-- Won Slides to Eight-Month Low on North Korea Tensions
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2013-04-08T01:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/won-slides-to-eight-month-low-on-north-korea-tensions.html
The won slid to the weakest level in
more than eight months as heightened risk of conflict with  North
Korea  spurred outflows of foreign funds.  Government bonds  were
steady, while the Kospi index swung between gains and losses.  Global funds  sold  more stocks than they bought, as they
have on all but two days in the past three weeks after South
Korean Presidential Park Geun Hye’s office said the communist
North may fire a missile around April 10. North  Korea  warned
embassies to evacuate as it won’t be able to guarantee the
safety of foreign missions starting April 10 in the event of a
conflict, after telling South Korean companies to leave the
Gaeseong joint industrial complex by the same date.  “Tensions with North Korea are intensifying, making
investors nervous about the situation on the Korean peninsula
and prompting sales of South Korean assets,” said Jeon Seung
Ji, analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in  Seoul . “Authorities may
try to take action if they find market reactions are excessive,
while investors will also eye the yen-won movement.”  The won slid 0.5 percent to 1,137 per dollar as of 10:16
a.m. in Seoul after touching 1,138.35, the lowest since July 27,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  South Korea ’s benchmark  Kospi (KOSPI)  index of shares rose 0.2
percent after dropping as much as 0.4 percent. The  Bank of New
York Mellon Korea ADR index , which measures the American
depositary receipts of South Korean companies, sank 2.6 percent,
the most since June 21, to 171.80 on April 5.  Regional Chaos  The Kospi index slumped 3.9 percent last week, the biggest
drop since May, and the won slid 1.8 percent as North Korea
passed a law authorizing “counter-actions” against U.S.
aggression, including a nuclear strike. Chinese President Xi Jinping said in a speech yesterday that no country should be
allowed to instigate regional chaos.  One-month implied volatility in the won, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose
76 basis points, or 0.76 percentage point, to 9.88 percent. The
yield on the 2.75 percent government notes due March 2018 was
unchanged at 2.54 percent, according to prices from Korea
Exchange Inc.  South Korea will deploy a 24-hour monitoring system of
financial markets and prepare “strong and swift” responses to
stabilize prices if needed as tensions with the North escalate,
Vice Finance Minister Choo Kyung Ho said at an emergency meeting
with counterparts from the  Bank of Korea  and financial
regulators April 5. The impact of the North’s threats so far has
been limited, Choo said.  Yen Weakness  The Kospi 200  Volatility Index , a measure of the cost to
protect against equity losses, surged 29 percent last week.
Foreign funds sold a net $1.2 billion of Kospi equities last
week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. International investors
unloaded $3.1 billion of South Korean shares this year, the most
among 10 markets in  Asia  tracked by Bloomberg.  The yen dropped to the weakest level since June 2009
against the dollar as investors sold the currency amid concern
 Bank of Japan  measures to fight deflation, announced last week,
will debase the currency.  A rapid weakening of the yen is expected to hurt the price
competitiveness of South Korean exports, Bank of Korea said in a
biannual report last week. The won strengthened 23 percent
against the yen in the past six months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  