-- WTI Crude Rises for Second Day; Goldman Forecast Changes
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   K o n s t a n t i n   R o z h n o v
-- 2013-04-09T12:49:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/wti-oil-trades-near-one-week-high-as-u-s-stockpiles-seen-rising.html
West  Texas  Intermediate rose for a
second day after  China  reported inflation eased more than
forecast last month. U.S. crude stockpiles probably increased to
the highest level in 22 years, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Futures gained as much as 0.5 percent in  New York  after
advancing the most in almost two weeks yesterday.  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  forecast that supplies at the U.S. delivery hub in
Cushing,  Oklahoma , will shrink at the end of next month, and
pushed back its recommendation for trading the discount on WTI
versus Brent. U.S. crude inventories climbed by  1.5 million
barrels  in the week to April 5 to 390 million, according to a
Bloomberg survey before the Energy Department releases data
tomorrow.  “Any healthy demand for oil will have to come from  Asia  or
the  Middle East ,” said Michael Poulsen, an analyst at Global
Risk Management in Middelfart,  Denmark . “Hopes for a Chinese
money bazooka have increased.”  WTI for May delivery advanced as much as 46 cents to $93.82
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $93.56 at 1:45 p.m. London time. The volume
of all futures traded was 39 percent below the 100-day average.
The contract increased 66 cents to $93.36 yesterday, its biggest
gain since March 26 and the highest close since April 3. Prices
dropped 4.7 percent last week.  Brent for May settlement rose 57 cents to $105.23 a barrel
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European
benchmark grade was at a premium of $11.67 to WTI futures. The
spread was $11.30 at the close of trading yesterday, the
narrowest gap since June 22.  Chinese Inflation  Consumer prices  in China, the world’s second-biggest crude
consumer, rose 2.1 percent in March from a year earlier, the
National Bureau of Statistics said today in Beijing. That
trailed the 2.5 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists. Inflation gained 3.2 percent in February,
the most in 10 months, when spending for the Lunar New Year
holiday pushed up prices.  Investors should buy September 2013 WTI futures and sell
Brent contracts for the same month as the spread between the two
grades narrows, Goldman Sachs said in a report e-mailed today.
The bank previously recommended buying WTI for June 2013
delivery and selling Brent for the same month.  Goldman Sachs said it shifted the strategy because weaker
production growth in Texas and  New Mexico  “greatly reduces”
the risk that U.S. Gulf Coast refineries face an oversupply of
light crude that would depress WTI prices in the second half of
the year.  Oil Supplies  Oil in New York has technical support along its 100-day
moving average, which is about $92.22 a barrel today, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures halted an intraday
decline near that indicator for a second day on April 5. Buy
orders tend to be clustered close to chart-support levels.  U.S. crude stockpiles may have risen last week after Exxon
Mobil Corp. shut the Pegasus pipeline, which moves oil from
 Illinois  to Gulf Coast refineries, a Bloomberg survey showed.
Supplies reached the highest level since July 1990 the previous
week. Exxon hasn’t said when it will restart the line, which was
shut March 29 after heavy Canadian crude leaked in  Arkansas .  “Crude inventories just keep on building and that means
any increase in demand is being met by more than adequate gains
in supplies,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC
Markets in Sydney.  Gasoline supplies probably fell  1.8 million barrels  last
week, while distillate inventories, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, probably slid by  1.7 million , according
to the median of eight estimates in the Bloomberg survey.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will
release separate inventory figures later today. The API collects
stockpile information on a voluntary basis from operators of
refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The government
requires that reports be filed with the Energy Information
Administration, the Energy Department’s statistics unit, for its
weekly survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Konstantin Rozhnov in London at 
 krozhnov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  