-- WTI Crude Rises as Brent Premium Narrows to 9-Month Low
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-04-08T19:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/wti-crude-rebounds-after-biggest-drop-in-six-months.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose
amid clashes in  Nigeria  after talks between Iran and world
powers ended without agreement. Brent oil’s premium to  New York 
futures narrowed to the smallest level since June.  Prices gained 0.7 percent after tumbling 4.7 percent in the
five days ended April 5, the biggest one-week decline since
September. The main rebel group in Nigeria, Africa’s largest
crude-producing country, said it killed 15 security guards in an
attack in the oil-producing Bayelsa state. Iran and six world
powers didn’t reach an interim deal over the country’s nuclear
work, which may bolster calls for more sanctions on the nation.  “There have been some issues in Nigeria, which is always
worrying,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at
Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees
$1.4 billion. “The fact that the Iran talks went nowhere isn’t
helpful. The Iran saga continues to drag on, which is probably
what the Iranians want.”  WTI crude oil for May delivery advanced 66 cents to settle
at $93.36 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
volume of all WTI futures traded was 10 percent below the 100-
day average for the time of day at 3:10 p.m.  Brent oil for May settlement gained 54 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $104.66 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The contract touched $103.40, the lowest
intraday price since July 25. The volume of all Brent futures
was 52 percent higher than the 100-day average.  Brent Premium  The European benchmark grade ended the session at a $11.30
premium to WTI, the narrowest gap since June 22 on a closing
basis.  Norwegian unions and employers reached an agreement in
collective bargaining talks that extended beyond a midnight
deadline, averting a strike that would have started today and
curbed offshore oil production for the second time in less than
a year. Norway is the biggest producer of oil in the  North Sea .  “Brent is probably under more pressure today because
Norwegian oil workers avoided a strike,” said  Gene McGillian ,
an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  Brent for May settlement traded at a discount of 11 cents
to the June contract, a situation known as a contango market,
where prompt supplies cost less than those for later delivery.
Front-month prices fell below second-month prices for the first
time since June 2012 on April 5. Contango usually signals either
falling demand or rising supply, or a combination of both.  Technical Support  Oil in New York has technical support along its 100-day
moving average, about $92.14 a barrel today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures halted an intraday decline near
that indicator for a second day on April 5. Buy orders tend to
be clustered close to chart-support levels.  “We really have seen the bottom in the oil price after the
recent selloff,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior broker at
Jefferies Bache Ltd. in  London .  Nigerian troops are hunting for militants who said they
killed the 15 policemen. The attack on April 6 was claimed by
the Movement for the Emancipation of the  Niger Delta . Two
insurgents also died in the gunfight, which lasted for more than
40 minutes at a river in the Azuzama area in Southern Ijaw local
government region, MEND spokesman  Jomo Gbomo  said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  MEND said on April 3 it would resume attacks in the country
after its suspected leader,  Henry Okah , was sentenced to 24
years in prison in  South Africa  on terrorism charges. Okah
denies being a leader of the group.  Nigerian Unrest  Attacks including kidnappings and bombings of installations
by groups such as MEND reduced Nigeria’s oil output by more than
28 percent between 2006 and 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  There was “enough substance” in  Iran ’s negotiations with
the U.S., Britain, France, China, Russia and Germany for them to
continue, a Western diplomat who spoke to reporters on condition
of anonymity said today in Brussels. The two days of talks in
Almaty,  Kazakhstan , ended April 6. Iran is the fifth-biggest
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
and is under sanctions because of its nuclear program.  The Islamic republic wants a clear pledge that its right to
enrich uranium, which can be used to build nuclear bombs, won’t
be compromised if it suspends some production. Western powers
are pushing Iran to take confidence-building steps, such as
halting enrichment.  “Geopolitics are back at work,” said  John Kilduff , a
partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based energy hedge
fund. “The upsurge in unrest in Nigeria and the breakdown of
talks with Iran are both pushing the market higher.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI crude options
expiring in May was 20 percent, up from 19.8 percent April 5.
The figure has slipped from 24.7 percent on Feb. 21.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 403,078
contracts as of 3:10 p.m. It totaled 662,698 contracts April 5,
15 percent above the three-month average. Open interest was 1.76
million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  