-- Zambia’s Kwacha May Weaken Up to 5% Over 12 Months, Bank Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-04-08T10:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/zambia-s-kwacha-may-weaken-up-to-5-over-12-months-bank-says.html
Zambia’s kwacha is set to continue
its slide against the dollar and may depreciate as much as 5
percent over the next 12 months, according to the country’s
biggest lender,  Zambia National Commercial Bank Plc. (ZANACO)   The currency of  Africa ’s largest copper producer will
probably remain stable in the “short term,” Managing Director
Martyn Schouten said in an interview on April 5 in Lusaka,
without giving a time frame.  “There will be some depreciation, probably in the range of
1 percent to 5 percent over the next 12 months,” he said.
“Crucial, of course, is the price of copper.”  The kwacha has weakened 3.7 percent against the dollar this
year, making it the continent’s sixth-worst performer and
prompting the southern African nation’s government to take
measures to stem the decline. The currency eased 0.9 percent to
5.40 per dollar by 11:39 a.m. in Lusaka. Copper for delivery in
three months rose 1.3 percent on the London Metal Exchange to
$7,501 a ton. The metal, used in plumbing and electrical wiring,
has weakened 5.4 percent this year.  A weaker kwacha causes higher inflation and makes it more
expensive for government to repay its $750 million Eurobond,
according to Finance Minister Alexander Chikwanda. The yield on
the debt, due September 2022, gained one basis point to 5.49
percent today.  The Bank of Zambia held talks with the country’s lenders
after Chikwanda said in a Feb. 26 statement to lawmakers the
banks were operating as a “cartel” and are “led into
temptation” of profiting through currency manipulation. The
Bankers’ Association of Zambia denied the allegations.  Barclays Plc, Standard Chartered Plc and Standard Bank
Group Ltd. also have operations in Zambia.  President  Michael Sata  last month signed a new law partly
aimed at strengthening the local currency, Deputy Finance
Minister Miles Sampa said on March 31. The policy requires
exporters to deposit foreign-currency earnings locally.  “At the present time its fairly unclear to us” what
effect on the currency the new law will have, Schouten said. The
government will issue a statutory instrument with the details of
the Bank of Zambia Amendment Act, Sampa said March 20. The
currency may strengthen to below 5 per dollar as a result of the
policy, he said.  Zambia  National Commercial Bank , or Zanaco as the lender is
known, has gained 44 percent on the Lusaka Stock Exchange this
year. It traded unchanged at 0.26 kwacha today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  