-- Zloty Strengthens to 11-Week High on Foreign Inflows Into Bonds
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-04-08T16:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-08/zloty-strengthens-to-11-week-high-on-foreign-inflows-into-bonds.html
The zloty advanced to the highest
level in almost three months and bond yields set record lows on
foreign inflows triggered by speculation over more bond buying
by global central banks and more rate cuts in  Poland .  The zloty gained 0.8 percent to 4.1234 against the euro at
6:09 p.m. in Warsaw, the strongest on a closing basis since Jan.
17 and the biggest appreciation among the 31 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The  yield  on Poland’s 10-year bonds fell
13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to an all-time low of
3.50 percent, down 44 basis points this month.  The currency and bonds rallied after  Japan  announced plans
to step up monetary easing and as weak U.S. jobs data stokes
speculation of more liquidity inflows from global central bank
bond-buying programs, which feed a hunt for yield. Poland’s
economic slowdown is piling pressure on central bank Governor
Marek Belka and his policy council to resume interest rate cuts.  “For now, I can’t see factors that could limit these
flows, unless the Monetary Policy Council decides to scare
investors by saying it does not intend to cut rates,” Pawel Radwanski, a fixed-income analyst at Raiffeisen Polbank SA, said
by phone from Warsaw.  Policy makers start their two-day meeting on interest rates
tomorrow. The council is expected to keep rates unchanged this
week after reducing them by a total of 150 basis points since
November to a record low of 3.25 percent last month, according
to all 35 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Nine-month forward rate agreements, derivatives used to bet
on interest rates, traded 53 basis points below the Warsaw
Interbank Offered Rate, signaling bets for more than two
quarter-point rate reductions this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  