-- Haqqani Terror Label Adds to Strains for U.S., Pakistan
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-09-08T00:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-08/haqqani-terror-label-adds-to-strains-for-u-s-pakistan.html
The U.S. decision to blacklist the
Haqqani Network may increase tensions with  Pakistan , where the
militant group has bases, substantial economic activities and
ties to the country’s intelligence services.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday that
she’ll designate the Pakistan-based network, which has launched
deadly attacks on U.S. and allied troops in neighboring
 Afghanistan , as a “foreign terrorist organization,” making it
possible for the U.S. to sanction those who give the group
financial and other support. She made the announcement the day
before a deadline set by Congress for the administration to say
whether the group meets the criteria for such designations.  Lawmakers also are seeking to withhold part of the
administration’s requested $2.2 billion in Pakistan aid next
year unless the nation steps up the fight against the Haqqanis
and other militants. Secretary of Defense  Leon Panetta  is among
U.S. officials who have expressed frustration with Pakistan’s
failure to act. Yet nuclear-armed Pakistan is a regional ally
critical to U.S. supply lines into Afghanistan and U.S. hopes
for the Afghanistan’s future stability.  “From a counter-terrorism perspective, a stability
perspective, this was absolutely the right thing to do,” Rick “Ozzie” Nelson, director of the Homeland Security and
Counterterrorism Program at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, a Washington policy group, said in a
telephone interview.  Pakistan Pressured  “However, we’re going to have strategic interests in the
region that last for decades and to make sure those interests
are met, we’re going to have to have a relationship with
Pakistan,” he said. “In designating Haqqani, it puts pressure
on Pakistan.”  The designation of the Haqqani Network as a foreign
terrorist organization “will be met with anger by Pakistan’s
senior military leadership,” said  Lisa Curtis , a senior
research fellow at the Heritage Foundation, a Washington policy
group. That could complicate U.S. and Afghan hopes that Pakistan
will facilitate reconciliation talks with the  Taliban movement ,
to which the Haqqanis belong.  “Pakistani military leaders view the Haqqani Network as
one of their greatest assets in maintaining influence in
Afghanistan,” particularly against arch-rival  India , Curtis
said in an e-mail.  U.S. Action  U.S. blacklisting  of the group will criminalize
“providing material support or resources to, or engaging in
other transactions with, the Haqqani Network,” and will freeze
“all property and interests in property” of the Haqqanis under
U.S. jurisdiction or in the control of U.S. persons, Clinton
said in a  statement  released from Vladivostok,  Russia , where she
arrived to attend an international conference.  In practice, the terrorist label enables the U.S.
government to constrain the group’s finances by going after its
fundraising channels and those doing business with the group,
according to Jeffrey Dressler, who leads the Afghanistan-
Pakistan project at the Institute for the Study of War, a
 Washington  policy group.  Pakistan considers the decision “an internal matter for
the  United States ,” according to an e-mailed statement
yesterday from its Washington embassy. “It is not our business.
The Haqqanis are not Pakistani nationals. We will continue to
work with all international partners including the U.S. in
combating extremism and terrorism.”  The organization’s leaders are Pashtuns, an ethnic group in
southeastern Afghanistan and across the border in Pakistan.  Pakistani leaders have let the Taliban-affiliated Haqqanis
operate from Northern Waziristan in the Federally Administered
Tribal Areas of Pakistan “due to their concerns that Pakistan
will be left alone to confront an unstable, an unfriendly or an
Indian-influenced Afghanistan on its borders” after U.S. troops
leave Afghanistan in 2014, according to an April 30 report by
the U.S. Defense Department.  ‘Veritable Arm’  Former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff  Michael Mullen 
has described the Haqqanis as a “veritable arm” of Pakistan’s
Inter-Services Intelligence.  Pakistani leaders including former Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  and Foreign Minister Hina Rabbani Khar have rejected
that charge and said Pakistan is doing what it can against such
militants.  Yet the Haqqanis have extensive economic interests inside
Pakistan, as well as in Afghanistan, the  Persian Gulf , and
possibly beyond, according to Dressler.  Car Dealerships  “The network operates or partially owns many licit
businesses, such as car dealerships, within some of Pakistan’s
most populous cities,” he wrote in a Sept. 5  paper . “It also
owns money exchanges and construction companies in Afghanistan
and Pakistan, in addition to commercial and residential real-
estate holdings, import-export operations, and transport
businesses.”  Moreover, Dressler said, “there is plenty of evidence to
suggest that many of these licit endeavors are inextricably
linked with the vast economic empire of the Pakistani military
industrial complex.”  Pakistan needs the Haqqani Network to counter Indian
influence in the region, said CSIS’s Nelson. Arch-rival India’s
size means that the only way Pakistan can check its power is
asymmetrically, through the threat of its nuclear weapons or
with militant groups.  “The relationship with the militant groups is incredibly
important,” Nelson said, especially as leaders in Islamabad are
sure the United States will eventually leave.  Strategic Perspective  “From their strategic perspective, it’s more beneficial to
attend to their long-term interests, and retain ties with the
Haqqanis, than our short-term interests,” Nelson said. “The
problem for us is those groups are undermining stability in
Afghanistan and killing NATO soldiers.”  State Department officials discussing the thinking behind
Clinton’s announcement yesterday, on condition of anonymity,
emphasized that the decision to designate the Haqqani group
isn’t targeted at any part of Pakistan’s government. Pakistani
officials were told in advance of Clinton’s decision, they said.  Pakistan’s leaders have been hoping that the U.S. would
eventually acquiesce to a strong Haqqani role in any future
dispensation for Afghanistan, Curtis of the  Heritage Foundation 
said. “Their mistake has been failing to use their ties with
the network to moderate its behavior and to convince the Haqqani
leadership to publicly break ties with al-Qaeda,” Curtis said.  ‘Riding the Tiger’  Nelson said Pakistani leaders may be afraid even to try.
“Pakistan is riding the tiger of militancy,” he said. “If
they go in there and try to eradicate the Haqqani, which is a
very lethal network, it could actually turn on the Pakistani
government and they have very limited capacity to mitigate that
kind of threat.”  U.S. frustrations with Pakistan have grown increasingly
public as the Haqqanis have been responsible for some of the
deadliest attacks on Americans in Afghanistan. In June, Panetta
said that it was “an increasing concern that safe havens
continue to exist” in Pakistan and the Haqqani Network is able
to flee to safety after mounting attacks against Americans and
allies in Afghanistan.  “We are reaching the limits of our patience here and for
that reason it’s extremely important that Pakistan take
action,” he said June 7 in Kabul.  Vali Nasr, a former senior adviser on Pakistan at the State
Department, now the dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced
International Studies in Washington, said “the U.S. is already
treating the Haqqanis as a terrorist organization and has
targeted their operations” in both Afghanistan and Pakistan’s
tribal areas.  Before yesterday’s announcement, the U.S. had slapped the
group’s leaders with individual sanctions, and has targeted the
Haqqanis in military operations and clandestine drone strikes.  Last month, Afghan officials said a drone strike killed
Badruddin Haqqani, the network’s operational commander, in
Pakistan’s tribal areas. Badruddin was a son of Jalaluddin Haqqani, the group’s founder, a former U.S. intelligence
“asset” who fought Soviet forces in Afghanistan in the 1980s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  