-- Syria Deal Pushed by Russia Must Have Teeth, Clinton Says
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-09-09T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-08/lavrov-pushes-u-s-to-back-syria-accord-at-un-security-council.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said she “made the international community’s case” in
a meeting with Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  to put
more pressure on the regime of Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad.  An accord negotiated in Geneva to call for a transitional
coalition government won’t work “if it doesn’t have teeth,”
Clinton said yesterday at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
Forum in Vladivostok, after meeting Lavrov the day before.
Lavrov told her Russia sees the Geneva plan as the best chance
for peace that’s not imposed by outside powers.  “As for the actions to achieve these goals, the U.S. tends
to threaten, to increase pressure via more and more sanctions,”
Lavrov told reporters. “We disagree with this in principle,
because to solve the problems,” all parties need to be
involved, not isolated, he said.  Russia and China have blocked three efforts at the  Security
Council  by the U.S., the U.K. and France to increase pressure on
the Syrian government. Clinton has publicly criticized Russia
for blocking efforts to impose sanctions or other penalties on
the regime of Assad, whose military forces cracked down last
year on an opposition movement that became an armed resistance.  Syria is host to Russia’s only naval base in the region,
and Russia has sold billions of dollars of weapons that have
been used in the conflict. Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
urged outside powers on Sept. 6 to stop sending weapons to
rebels in Syria to help end more than 18 months of fighting.
Russia has repeatedly accused  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar of arming
Assad’s opponents.  23,000 Lives  The conflict has claimed more than 23,000 lives, according
to the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights . The U.S.
is offering non-lethal support to opposition groups in the
countries.  The administration of President  Barack Obama  should do more
to persuade the Russians to change their strategy on Syria, said
 Martin Indyk , a former ambassador who is now director of foreign
policy at the  Brookings Institution , a Washington-based group,
according to a transcript of  CNN ’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS,” which
aired yesterday.  Obama ought to support a no-fly zone over Syria, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Clinton’s former policy planning chief, said on the
same CNN program.  “We are really risking all-out war in the region,” she
said. “We’re missing an enormous opportunity to actually shape
what happens.”  ‘Common Goals’  Lavrov told reporters that Russia and the U.S. “have
common goals. We want Syria to be a free, democratic, prosperous
country led by the government elected by the people.”  Lavrov said Russia also supports a proposal by an
opposition group -- the National Coordination Committee -- to
convene a conference in Damascus to agree on a united
negotiating position for talks with Assad’s government.  U.S. officials say the group isn’t representative of the
entire opposition.  Lavrov said he told Clinton that U.S. sanctions against
Syria and Iran are hurting Russian businesses, in particular
banks.  “This approach is unacceptable,” Lavrov told reporters
Sept. 8. “We don’t support sanctions as sanctions don’t bring
results.”  Syrian government forces killed 112 people across the
country yesterday, the opposition Local Coordination Committee
said in an e-mailed statement. Thousands of Syrians were
stranded at the border with Turkey yesterday awaiting permission
from the Turkish government to enter the country, according to
 Al Jazeera .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  