-- Charlotte Host Committee Says It Will Repay Debts on Its Own
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-09-08T22:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-08/charlotte-host-committee-says-it-will-repay-debts-on-its-own.html
The Committee for Charlotte 2012,
which was charged with raising money for the Democratic National
Convention, says it won’t rely on the Obama campaign or the
 Democratic National Committee  to repay any of its outstanding
debts.  The group, which promised to raise $36.7 million for the
Democratic National Convention Committee, will disclose how much
it has drawn from a line of credit from  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  when
it files its report with the  Federal Election Commission  on Oct.
17, said Joshua Field, the communications director for the
committee.  “Any credit that is used will be paid back via additional
fundraising efforts made by the Host Committee,” Field wrote in
an e-mail. “All budgetary details, including those regarding
the line of credit from Duke Energy, will be disclosed in our
FEC report.”  He disputed a report by Bloomberg News that Democrats ended
their convention in Charlotte $5 million short of their target,
even after relying on $10 million line of credit from Duke
Energy.  Bloomberg News  reported yesterday that the shortfall
will leave a $15 million bill that eventually will have to be
paid by President Barack Obama’s campaign or the Democratic
National Committee, citing a Democratic Party fundraiser, who
requested anonymity.  “We will not have to close a $15 million fundraising gap
because we do not have a $15 million fundraising gap,” Field
said, without revealing the size of the fundraising shortage.  The host committee failed to reach its $36.7 million
fundraising goal because the DNC banned direct cash
contributions from corporations, which have traditionally
underwritten presidential nominating conventions. Republicans
didn’t have a similar prohibition for their convention last
month in Tampa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  