-- China, Canada Sign Investor Protection Accord Amid Nexen Review
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-09-08T23:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-08/china-canada-sign-investor-protection-accord-amid-nexen-review.html
Chinese President  Hu Jintao  and
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  signed an agreement today
to protect foreign investors in their respective countries.  The signing, at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
summit in Vladivostok, Russia, comes as Harper’s government
reviews  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion takeover of  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , a
Calgary-based oil and gas producer. Harper said yesterday Canada
will be open to investment from  China  as long as the Asian
country is willing to reciprocate.  “This agreement with China -- the world’s second largest
economy -- will provide stronger protection for Canadians
investing in China, and create jobs and economic growth in
Canada,” Harper said in an e-mailed statement.  Both countries must still ratify the agreement. Canada will
introduce the pact in the country’s legislature to be ratified,
Harper said.  “We want to see this economic relationship continue to
expand, but we want to see it expand in a way where it’s a clear
two-way flow and clear benefits for both sides,” Harper, 53,
said in an interview in  Vancouver  with Bloomberg Television
before departing for the APEC summit.  The pact will protect investors against “discriminatory”
and “arbitrary” practices and create a process to settle
disputes with either government, according to a summary of the
agreement  posted  by the Canadian government after the two
countries concluded negotiations in February.  Harper’s Cabinet approved the signing of the investor
protection agreement, according to a government order dated Aug.
29.  China Trade  Investment between the two countries has been tilted toward
China. Canadian direct investment in China was C$4.5 billion
($4.6 billion) in 2011, less than 1 percent of Canadian total
investment in all countries, and less than half the level of
investment in  Canada  by Chinese firms, Statistics Canada data
show.  Canadian and Chinese officials completed a study on the
potential benefits of a free-trade agreement between the two
countries, which was released Aug. 15.  While the study urges the two countries to “continue to
deepen and strengthen our bilateral trade and investment ties,”
it calls for “increased regulatory clarity, efficiency and
predictability in the context of direct investments in each
other’s countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  