-- Clinton at APEC Urges End to Trade Barriers, Maritime Disputes
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-09-08T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-08/clinton-to-push-maritime-code-trade-at-apec-summit-in-russia.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
urged Asia-Pacific business leaders to help dismantle trade
barriers as part of a visit to Russia also aimed at promoting
cooperation on resolving regional maritime skirmishes.  Speaking to executives yesterday at the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation Summit in Vladivostok, Clinton called for
“concrete steps” to reduce “protectionist policies that
distort markets.” Her itinerary includes meetings with Russian
President  Vladimir Putin  and the leaders of Japan and  South
Korea , all of whom have competing territorial claims with China
or each other.  The top U.S. diplomat is wrapping up a six-nation, 11-day
tour that garnered mixed results in pressing China and Southeast
Asia countries to adopt a framework for negotiations on rival
territorial claims in a region rich in oil and gas. The U.S. is
seeking to defuse conflict in the  South China Sea , through which
half of the world’s commercial cargo moves.  The U.S. is trying to “lend some weight to the other
parties in this conflict,” said Walter Lohman, director of the
Asian Studies Center at the  Heritage Foundation  in Washington.
“The Chinese are so big that left alone, the other small
countries will be deprived of any role in the conversation.”  Clinton and Chinese Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  met in
Beijing on Sept. 5 and pledged to build closer ties while
disagreeing over the best way to solve the maritime
disagreements. China has maritime disputes with several
countries, including the Philippines and  Vietnam .  Dialogue, Negotiation  Chinese President  Hu Jintao  met yesterday with his
Vietnamese and Indonesian counterparts and said the South China
Sea sovereignty issue should be resolved through dialogue and
negotiation, Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang told reporters.  Speaking at the APEC CEO Summit, Clinton advocated reducing
barriers, ensuring a level playing field for expanding trade and
investment, and bolstering cooperation on issues including
intellectual property protection and food security.  She urged business leaders to push their governments to
support “high-standard trade agreements like the Trans-Pacific
Partnership and to drop harmful protectionist policies.”  To ensure that U.S. companies are able to do business in
Russia, Clinton said the Obama administration is “working
closely” with Congress to lift restrictions on trade with
Russia and grant permanent normal trade relations. She expressed
hope that U.S. lawmakers will take action this month to repeal
the 1974 Jackson-Vanik amendment, which restricted trade with
the Soviet Union over its  human rights  record.  Syrian Pressure  Clinton yesterday met Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  to press for tougher international pressure against
Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad. Russia is resisting Western
efforts to oust Assad as a means to ending a civil war that has
killed more than 23,000 people in 18 months, according to the
U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.  Lavrov told reporters afterward that Russia disagrees with
the U.S. approach “to threaten, to increase pressure against
both Syria and  Iran .”  In her meetings, Clinton sought to discuss economic
opportunities and trade following Russia’s accession to the
 World Trade Organization . She will also discuss efforts to
prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon, U.S. officials
told reporters traveling with her.  Clinton and Lavrov signed agreements on scientific and
environmental cooperation in the Antarctic region, promoting
commercial and governmental ties at local and regional levels,
and linking national parks in Alaska and Eastern Siberia. They
also announced an agreement to ease visa access to facilitate
business travel, tourism and bilateral investment.  ‘Deepened Cooperation’  Clinton praised the initiatives as signs of “deepened
cooperation” between the U.S. and Russia over the last three
and a half years, since the Obama administration announced a so-
called reset in relations.  The agreement to boost commercial cooperation at the
regional level is intended to help U.S. agricultural exports and
promote job growth in the U.S. Pacific Northwest and the Russian
 Far East , where  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  has invested on Sakhalin
Island, the State Department said in a statement.  During an earlier photo opportunity before a meeting,
Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong asked Clinton if she
had been following the Democratic Convention during her trip.
She replied jokingly that she had been “banished” for the
duration of the gathering of the party faithful that just ended
in Charlotte, North Carolina. Clinton delayed her departures
from her last two stops in East Timor and Brunei to watch her
husband’s and President  Barack Obama ’s convention speeches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  