-- Glasenberg Moves to Sideline Xstrata CEO After Raising Offer
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-09-08T11:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-08/glasenberg-moves-to-sideline-xstrata-s-davis-after-raising-offer.html
Glencore (GLEN)  International Plc’s
“merger of equals” with  Xstrata (XTA)  Plc moved closer to being a
fully fledged hostile takeover after Glencore Chief Executive
Officer Ivan Glasenberg raised his bid by 9 percent and demanded
that he lead the new company rather than Xstrata CEO Mick Davis.  The dramatic developments in what would be this year’s
biggest merger included an evening negotiating session in a
 London  hotel mediated by former U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair  -
- between Glasenberg and Qatar’s premier, said a person with
knowledge of the deal. Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund, which has
been insisting on a higher price, holds a pivotal 12 percent
share in Xstrata. Since 2008, Blair has been a senior adviser to
JPMorgan Chase & Co., which is advising Xstrata.  Glencore’s move would shred the power-sharing agreement
reached by both companies in February, when the then-$21.9
billion-pound ($35.1 billion) deal was announced. Davis was to
have led the new company, and Glasenberg, Glencore’s largest
shareholder with a stake worth $6.9 billion, would have been
deputy CEO. Xstrata investors, told of the latest proposal as
they were arriving at a meeting yesterday in  Switzerland  to vote
on the deal, must now wait while the company seeks more detail
from its suitor.  “Probably Ivan thought if it’s going to cost me so much
money I want control,” said  Peter Davey , head of metals and
mining research at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in London. “Davis
not having the CEO post may upset Xstrata shareholders.”  Coal Exporter  Glencore trades commodities and owns mines, smelters and
oil wells. Xstrata mines copper and is the world’s largest
exporter of coal burned by power stations. Combining them would
create the fourth-biggest mining company.  Glencore raised its offer to 3.05 shares for every one of
Xstrata’s, from 2.8 shares previously, and proposed
restructuring the transaction as a takeover offer. The revised
bid, at a premium of 17.6 percent, is “significantly lower than
would be expected in a takeover,” Zug, Switzerland-based
Xstrata said in a statement yesterday.  That’s less than the average announced premium of 30
percent for all other mining deals valued at more than $5
billion since at least 1999, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Xstrata’s response “suggests that the board was given
little notice of the change and it may view the move as a
hostile takeover,”  Tony Robson , an analyst at BMO Capital
Markets in Toronto, said in a note. Xstrata’s senior managers
may refuse to work for the merged company, he said.  Hotel Meeting  The deal is currently a so-called scheme of arrangement,
meaning Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore can’t vote its 34
percent Xstrata stake and investors holding 16.48 percent can
block the merger. Sovereign wealth fund Qatar Holding LLC, the
second-biggest Xstrata investor with 12 percent, said in June it
was seeking a ratio of 3.25 Glencore shares.  Glasenberg, 55, met in a London hotel on the evening of
Sept. 6 with Qatar’s Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim Bin Al-Thani, according to the person familiar with the deal who
declined to be identified because the meeting was private. Qatar
Holding asked that Blair become involved, the Financial Times
reported today, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the
discussions.  While Qatar is broadly supportive of Glencore’s new terms
for the takeover, it was unaware that Glencore would seek to
drop the plan to install Davis as CEO of a merged group,
according to two people with knowledge of the talks. Qatar
doesn’t agree with the proposed change to the CEO role, said the
people, who declined to be identified as the matter is
confidential.  Marc Rich  Glasenberg and Davis’s relationship goes back to the 1970s.
The two  South Africans  met at the University of Witwatersrand
where Davis was a lecturer and Glasenberg a student. Both
qualified as accountants, after which their paths temporarily
diverged.  Glasenberg joined commodity trader  Marc Rich  & Co. in 1983.
After a stint as a coal trader, he ran the company’s coal
department. Management bought out founder Marc Rich in 1994 and
renamed the company Glencore and Glasenberg became CEO in 2002.  Davis, 54, was hired in 1994 as finance director of South
African miner Gencor Ltd., which eventually became part of  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  Davis left in 2001 to join Xstrata, which sold
shares to investors in London the following year. Under his
leadership, Xstrata increased its market value almost 100-fold
to 30.5 billion pounds business with a staff of more than 70,000
in 20 countries.  “We would like to see greater visibility into the role
proposed for  Mick Davis ,” said Paul Gait, an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein. “He has played a crucial, driving role in
Xstrata’s meteoric rise to date.”  ‘Significant Risk’  Xstrata has sought to keep Davis and other senior managers
following the completion of the deal. The original proposal
included 172.8 million pounds of retention payments for Davis
and 72 other managers. While investors including  Standard Life
Plc (SL/)  criticized the payments as excessive, Xstrata said they were
necessary to retain employees overseeing a multibillion-dollar
expansion of production.  Glencore’s proposal to replace Davis and amend incentives
for Xstrata management poses a “significant risk around the
retention of the Xstrata senior and operational management,”
Xstrata said in its statement yesterday.  A Glencore spokesman declined to comment further. A Qatar
Holding spokesman also declined to comment.  Xstrata gained 3.6 percent yesterday to close at 1,014
pence in London trading. Glencore dropped 3.6 percent to 378.05
pence. Xstrata stock traded at 2.68 times that of Glencore, up
from a ratio of 2.5 the day before.  “The future of Xstrata’s CEO Mick Davis could be a
sticking point,” David Abraham, an analyst at BTIG Ltd., said
in phone interview. “We’d like to see confirmation of his
expected role over the weekend.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net . 