-- Joaquin Phoenix, Anderson Win Venice Trophies for ‘The Master’
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-09-09T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-08/joaquin-phoenix-anderson-win-venice-trophies-for-the-master-.html
“The Master,” about an American
guru and his unruly disciple, swept up three trophies at the
 Venice  Film Festival, as director Paul Thomas Anderson and co-
stars Philip Seymour Hoffman and Joaquin Phoenix all won.  The best-film award, or Golden Lion, went to Korean Kim Ki-
Duk’s “Pieta,” about the encounter between a young loan shark
and a woman claiming to be his mother. Appearing on stage to
pick up his prize, Kim, wearing his long gray hair pulled up,
broke into song in Korean to voice his gratitude.  “The Master” awards were collected at the red-carpet
closing ceremony on Sept. 8 by a puffy-eyed, ill-shaven Hoffman,
who said he had just stepped off a long-haul flight.  “I still have crust on my eyes from the sleep on the
plane, and I put this suit on in a bathroom, so please don’t
judge,” joked the actor, wearing glasses, a navy suit, and a
loose tie.  Describing Phoenix as “a life force in this film,” he
said, “I kind of rode that life force, and that was my
performance! It was really riding his life force, because it was
something that was untamable.”  In the film, Phoenix plays a 1950s U.S. Navy veteran named
Freddie Quell who heads home to start a new life. Too
uncontrollable to hold down jobs as a portrait photographer and
a farm hand, he hops on a riverboat one night and finds a group
of people idolizing a charismatic master (Hoffman).  Hubbard’s Church  Before long, he joins the cult, which director Anderson
said he modeled after L. Ron Hubbard’s Church of Scientology.
Yet he still operates on a combination of rage and lust that not
even the Master can temper.  Venice’s best-actress prize went to Hadas Yaron for her
role as a young Hasidic Jew made to marry her widowed brother-
in-law in “Fill the Void,” a first feature by Rama Burshtein
(herself a member of the Hasidic community). It was one of the
strongest of the 18 movies competing for the Golden Lion this
year.  Steering the nine-person jury was “Heat” director  Michael Mann . Fellow jurors included performance artist  Marina Abramovic , actresses Samantha Morton and Laetitia Casta, and
“Gomorrah” director Matteo Garrone.  Venice 2012 was characterized by pouring rain and a
slimmed-down lineup under a new director. The headline out-of-
competition event was  Robert Redford ’s solid “The Company You
Keep,” about a group of anti-Vietnam-war activists who are
tracked down decades later by a reporter ( Shia LaBeouf ).  Another out-of-competition highlight was Spike Lee’s “Bad
25,” an entertaining documentary on the making of  Michael Jackson ’s “Bad” album.  Malick’s Model  Two big-name U.S. directors in the official contest
disappointed the critics. Terrence Malick, whose “The Tree of
Life” won the  Cannes Film Festival  last year, presented a
troubled love story called “To the Wonder” starring  Ben Affleck  and ex-model Olga Kurylenko, best known for her role as
a James Bond girl in “Quantum of Solace.”  Brian De Palma, director of “Scarface” and “The
Untouchables,” let down the reviewers with “Passion,” a
Berlin-based thriller about two female advertising executives at
each other’s throats ( Rachel McAdams  and Noomi Rapace).  Even Anderson’s “The Master” sputtered after a promising
start. Lavishly shot in the extra-wide 70-millimeter format, it
featured spectacular opening scenes with Phoenix. Yet the movie
soon lost its magic and mystery, as the myth of the Master was
quickly debunked.  Phoenix displayed bad-boy behavior at the movie’s news
conference. Looking uncomfortable before a sea of reporters and
cameras, he wriggled, lit up a cigarette, briefly left the room,
and basically refused to answer questions.  One other visually striking in-competition U.S. film was
Harmony Korine’s bikinis-and-machine-guns “Spring Breakers,”
about four college girls who escape to  Florida  during spring
break and get caught up with a silver-toothed gangster ( James Franco ).  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in Venice at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 