-- Kabul Suicide Bomber Kills Six Afghan Civilians, Wounds Five
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2012-09-08T14:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-08/kabul-suicide-bombing-kills-six-afghan-civilians-wounds-others.html
Six Afghan civilians were killed and
five others wounded by a suicide bomber in Kabul, the nation’s
capital.  The bombing occurred in the Shash Darak area, where the
presidential palace, NATO’s headquarters and embassies are
located, Seddiq Siddiqui, a spokesman for the interior ministry,
said in a phone interview today. Those killed by the teenage
bomber included four children and two adults, Siddiqui said in
an interview on Al Jazeera television.  Zabihullah Mujahed, a spokesman for the Taliban, claimed
responsibility in a phone interview, adding that the bomber had
targeted an American intelligence base in Kabul, killing and
wounding a number of U.S. Central Intelligence Agency staff.  Siddiqui, the interior ministry spokesman, said on al
Jazeera that a motive behind the bombing may have been
 Afghanistan  marking the 11th anniversary of the death of Ahmad
Shah Massoud, the supreme leader of the anti-Taliban Northern
Alliance.  Massoud was killed in an al-Qaeda suicide bombing two days
before the Sept. 11 attacks in 2001.  Another motive may have been the U.S. designating the
Haqqani Network as a foreign terrorist organization, Siddiqui
said in the television interview. The blacklisting allows the
U.S. to sanction those who give the Pakistan-based militant
group financial and other support.  The Taliban’s Mujahed denied that the Haqqani designation
or Massoud anniversary prompted the bombing.  The Haqqani Network has made deadly attacks on U.S. and
allied troops in Afghanistan.  The U.S. action, announced yesterday by Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton , will be a “big blow” to the network, Siddiqui
said on al Jazeera. “We strongly welcomed it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in London at 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  