-- Central Bankers Meet in Basel as King Leads Libor Talks
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-09-10T10:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-08/king-to-lead-central-bankers-seeking-solution-to-libor-damage.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said global central bankers agreed to set up an inquiry
into Libor after confidence collapsed in the benchmark rate for
more than $500 trillion of securities.  The announcement follows a meeting yesterday of central
bank governors led by King in his role as chairman of the
Economic Consultative Committee at the BIS in Basel,
 Switzerland . The inquiry will be led by “senior officials,”
and comes as Financial Services Authority Managing Director
Martin Wheatley conducts a separate investigation into how the
 London  interbank offered rate is set.  The probe will “consult with the market in order to
provide input into the wider official debate coordinated by the
Financial Stability Board,” King said in an e-mailed statement
today. “The BIS governors look forward with great interest to
the recommendations of the Wheatley Libor review, and to the
reports of other official groups examining reference rates used
in financial markets.”  King put Libor on the agenda after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined
290 million pounds ($464 million) for its role in manipulating
the rate, which triggered the resignations of its chairman,
chief executive officer and chief operating officer. The Bank of
 England  became embroiled in the scandal, and lawmakers
criticized it last month for “naivety” in its handling of
questions about the rate as far back as 2007.  “The central banks have somehow got to get moral integrity
back in the financial system, and King will feel this himself,”
said Marcus Miller, a professor of economics at the University
of Warwick, England. “If you can’t trust London to fix the
rate, what’s the banking system all about?”  Draghi, Shirakawa  The BIS was founded in 1930 and acts as a central bank for
the world’s monetary authorities. King took over in November as
chairman of its Global Economy Meeting and the ECC, which meets
every two months. Participants this month include European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi , Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  and  Bank of Japan (8301) 
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa.  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted each day
on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in London. A lobby
group representing the banking industry in Brussels,  Washington 
and  Hong Kong  said today that all systemically significant
financial benchmarks should be subject to regulatory oversight
following the Libor scandal.  “The key benchmark indexes around the world need to be
subject to consistent, transparent and sound practices to ensure
the smooth functioning and efficiency of global financial
markets,” the Global Financial Markets Association said in a
statement on its website  Global Poll  Forty-four percent of investors in a Bloomberg Global Poll
published on Sept. 7 said Libor will be supplanted by a more
regulated model within five years. Thirty-four percent predicted
the rate will continue to be set by banks in the current
fashion, while 22 percent said they didn’t know.  The quarterly poll of 847 investors, analysts and traders
who are Bloomberg subscribers was conducted Sept. 4.  In the U.S., the House Financial Services Committee is
scrutinizing the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  about its
knowledge of the underreporting of Libor.  Carney, who is chairman of the FSB, has said the board will
consider alternatives to the rate, while the European Union has
also pledged tougher supervision of Libor, Euribor and other
market indices. It’s weighing options such as forcing banks to
provide real transaction data rather than estimates and
increasing the number of lenders involved in the rate setting.  “We’re very pleased that there is awareness globally on
the need to tackle how interbank lending rates are set,” said
Stefaan De Rynck, a spokesman for the EU’s financial services
chief,  Michel Barnier . “For action to restore trust in
interbank lending rates, including Libor, co-ordination is
needed at global level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  