-- Nelson, Miller Among 12 Inducted Into Basketball Hall of Fame
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-09-08T04:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-08/nelson-miller-10-others-inducted-into-basketball-hall-of-fame.html
Don Nelson , owner of the record for
the most wins by a National Basketball Association coach, and
five-time All-Star Reggie Miller were among the 12 inductees
this year into the Basketball Hall of Fame.  Nelson, 62, was a three-time NBA Coach of the Year and
accumulated 1,335 wins during 15 seasons with the Milwaukee
Bucks,  Golden State Warriors ,  New York Knicks  and Dallas
Mavericks. He spent more than 40 years as a player, coach and
general manager, winning five NBA titles as a forward with the
 Boston Celtics .  “When I look back at my career, I was the luckiest guy in
the world,” Nelson said last night during the induction
ceremony. “Now I’m going to Maui. There is life after
basketball.”  Miller, 46, played his entire 17-year NBA career with the
 Indiana Pacers , retiring in 2005 as their all-time leader in
points (25,279) and steals (1,505). The 1996 Olympic gold
medalist made an NBA-record 320 3-point shots in the playoffs
and shot 88 percent from the free-throw line.  “The guy that took the gamble on a skinny kid with big
ears in 1987 was  Donnie Walsh ,” Miller said, acknowledging the
president of the Pacers.  Miller joins his sister Cheryl, who was inducted into the
Hall of Fame in 1995.  “I just so happened to live across the hall from the
greatest woman basketball player ever,” he said, addressing his
sister. “I’m not on this stage without you.”  ‘Value Basketball’  Ralph Sampson, a three-time college player of the year,
played with the  Houston Rockets , Golden State Warriors,
Sacramento Kings and Washington Bullets during a career that
spanned 1983-1992.  “My journey has taken me such a long way. I learned how to
value basketball,” said Sampson, who admitted he originally
favored baseball.  This year’s class also included  Jamaal Wilkes , who won two
National Collegiate Athletic Association titles and four in the
NBA;  two-time NBA Most Valuable Player Mel Daniels, seven-time
NBA All-Star Chet Walker; two-time Olympic gold medalist Katrina
McClain; and the late Don Barksdale, the first black player on
the U.S. Olympic team and in the NBA All-Star game.  NCAA referee Hank Nichols, Nike Inc. co-founder  Phil Knight 
and former Soviet Union women’s coach Lidia Alexeeva, who was
undefeated in 17 years of international play also were inducted.  The Hall of Fame, in Springfield, Massachusetts, was
established in 1959 and has 313 inductees, including former
players, coaches, referees, teams and other contributors to the
game. Players become eligible five years after retirement;
coaches and referees must be retired for five years or have
worked fulltime for at least 25 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  