-- NYC Hit by Tornado as U.S. Open Women’s Final Postponed
-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 2012-09-08T18:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-08/nyc-hit-by-possible-tornado-as-heavy-rain-delays-u-s-open-match.html
A tornado touched down in the
borough of Queens and the threat of more severe weather in the
New York area postponed the U.S. Open tennis championship
women’s final until tomorrow along with all other matches.  A tornado warning was issued by the  National Weather
Service  for the boroughs of Brooklyn and Queens until 11:30 a.m.
local time as the storm moved through the city, the  Associated
Press  reported. Fox News said National Weather Service
meteorologist Dan Hofmann confirmed that a tornado had touched
down in the Breezy Point section of the Rockaway peninsula.  The northeastern U.S. and mid-Atlantic regions are under a
threat of “significant severe thunderstorms” this afternoon
and evening, the  Storm Prediction Center  in Oklahoma said. A
tornado watch is in effect for the New York metropolitan region,
including northern  New Jersey ; seven counties in Pennsylvania;
six counties in Connecticut and three counties in western
Massachusetts, the weather service said.  “This is a serious severe-weather threat,” said Andy Mussoline, a meteorologist with AccuWeather.com Inc. in  State
College , Pennsylvania, in a telephone interview. He said the
severe weather was likely to pass through eastern Pennsylvania,
Washington and Baltimore between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. today, and
through New York City and New Jersey between 7 p.m. and 9 p.m.
tonight.  The National Weather Service office in Upton, New York,
said strong thunderstorms are expected this afternoon and
tonight that may produce damaging winds and heavy rains. The
agency’s office in Sterling, Virginia, issued a similar warning
about thunderstorms for southeastern Pennsylvania, most of New
Jersey, central and eastern Maryland, most of Delaware,
Washington and northern Virginia.  Flights bound for New York’s John F. Kennedy International
Airport and LaGuardia Airport as well as New Jersey’s Newark
International Airport were delayed by as much as 40 minutes
because of thunderstorms, the U.S.  Federal Aviation
Administration  said on its website.  The U.S. Open match between  Andy Murray , the No. 3 seed
from Britain, and Tomas Berdych, the sixth seed from the Czech
Republic, began after a delay of more than an hour. The women’s
final at the U.S. Open between top-seeded Victoria Azarenka of
Belarus and three-time champion  Serena Williams  of the U.S. was
postponed because of bad weather expected tonight. The second
men's semifinal was halted in the first set with fourth-seeded
 David Ferrer  of Spain leading 5-2 against defending champion
Novak Djokovic of Serbia, with play to resume tomorrow.   The match at the National Tennis Center had been scheduled
for 7 p.m. The start time for the match tomorrow hasn’t been
announced yet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Sabo at   jsabo@bloomberg.net  