-- Obama Vies With Romney for Key Demographics in Campaign
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-09-09T00:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-08/obama-vies-with-romney-for-key-demographics-in-campaign-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  wooed senior
citizens in  Florida  today, vowing to protect their Medicare, as
challenger  Mitt Romney  focused his attention on white working
class voters in  Virginia  with appeals to religion and the
military.  “I will never turn Medicare into a voucher system,” Obama
said in Seminole, Florida. Republicans’ idea of reform is “just
dumping the cost on seniors,” Democrat Obama said.  The two candidates are grappling for an advantage with
voters, trading long-distance barbs through some of the most
tightly contested states.  With the post-convention phase of the campaign now
officially under way, Obama is making his way through Florida on
a bus tour as Romney rallies supporters in Virginia at a Nascar
race.  Speaking to 11,000 supporters at St. Petersburg College’s
Seminole campus, Obama pledged to “keep the promise of  Social
Security ” and “not by turning it over to  Wall Street .” Obama
also said Romney’s call to repeal the health-care expansion
known as “Obamacare” earns its own nickname:
“Romneydon’tcare.”  Hugging Obama  Obama opened his Florida bus tour with promises to defend
the middle class, saying Romney supports policies that might
further harm the economy. The two counties Obama is visiting
today are Pinellas and Osceola, which backed Obama in 2008 and
Republican President  George W. Bush  in 2004.  In Seminole, Obama was introduced by  Charlie Crist , the
former Republican Florida governor who is now giving his support
to Democrats. Crist was chided in his own party for hugging
Obama early in his presidency and he lost a 2010 Senate bid to
Marco Rubio. Today, the Democratic crowd cheered as Crist and
Obama hugged on stage.  Obama said he will reduce the deficit “without sticking it
to the middle class” while Romney would reduce regulation of
Wall Street and give priority to more tax breaks for wealthy
Americans.  At the Kissimmee Civic Center, in Kissimmee, Florida, a
city with a concentration of Puerto Ricans, Obama was introduced
by a Puerto Rican-born woman, Vivian Janer, who said the
president is committed to programs that help Hispanic Americans
and women. Kissimmee’s population is 58.9 percent Hispanic,
according to the  U.S. Census .  Economic Stimulus  The heavily Hispanic crowd of 3,000 responded so
enthusiastically when Obama appeared that he joked, “I just
want to say ‘thank you’ and leave the stage.”  Obama defended his economic stimulus, saying, “We’re
expanding ports and infrastructure in Florida precisely because
we can export more.” The crowd responded with a chant of U-S-A.  The president said “don’t get sick” is the Republican
advice for people who can’t afford health insurance. Obama also
told the crowd that the only way Romney can expand tax breaks
for wealthy Americans without increasing the deficit involves
“gutting education,” “voucherizing Medicare” and “maybe, to
top it off” increasing taxes on middle-class families.  While Obama only touched on yesterday’s disappointing jobs
report, Romney, in  Iowa  yesterday, hammered the president over
the nation’s 8.1 percent  unemployment rate  and a jobs report
that the Republican nominee called “simply unimaginable.”  Unemployment Rate  The U.S. Labor Department reported the economy added 96,000
jobs in August, down from a revised gain of 141,000 in July and
fewer than forecast. While the unemployment rate fell from 8.3
percent in July, the report showed 368,000 Americans left the
job market and the share of the working-age population in the
 labor force  slumped to 63.5 percent, the lowest since 1981.  The president is looking to former President  Bill Clinton ,
who gave a prime-time speech at the Democratic National
Convention on Obama’s behalf, to help make the case in
battleground states that Obama’s economic policies are working.
Clinton will campaign for Obama in Florida next week, the
campaign said, with a Sept. 11 stop in Miami and a Sept. 12
event in  Orlando .  Along with Florida, both campaigns are focused on Virginia,
a state the president won four years ago that polls show is up
for grabs today.  The Word God  Speaking to supporters in  Virginia Beach  today, Romney
attacked Democrats for cutting the word God from their party
platform at their convention. Delegates later voted to restore a
statement about the “God-given potential” of Americans.  “I will not take the word God out of the name of our
platform,” he said today in Virginia Beach. “I will not take
God off our coins and I will not take God out of my heart.”  No major political figure, of either party, has proposed
removing the motto “in God we trust” from the American
currency. Aides said the reference was intended to illustrate
Romney’s commitment to religious principals in U.S. government
and wasn’t aimed at Obama.  Before the rally, Romney met with  Pat Robertson , a
televangelist with a following among evangelical Christians.
Robertson ran unsuccessfully for the Republican presidential
nomination in 1988.  Romney’s trip though the state, which included a stop at a
Nascar race, is designed to expand his advantage among white
working class voters. Romney aides see support from this
demographic, particularly working class men, as offsetting
Obama’s advantage among black and Latino voters in swing states
such as Ohio and Virginia.  Defense Spending  At his rally today at the Military Aviation Museum, Romney
described possible defense cuts that will happen in January if
Congress and Obama fail to cut a budget deal as “unthinkable to
Virginia’s employment needs.”  Almost 14 percent of Virginia’s gross domestic product
stems from defense spending, according to a November report by
Bloomberg Government.  “If I’m president of the  United States  we’ll get rid of
those sequestration cuts and rebuild America’s might,” he said.  The automatic spending cuts totaling about $1.2 trillion
through 2021 were part of a deal between the White House and
Congress after talks failed last year on a bipartisan plan to
curb the nation’s increasing debt.  ‘A Big Mistake’  In an interview scheduled to be broadcast on NBC’s “Meet
the Press,” Romney called the cuts “a big mistake.”  “I thought it was a mistake on the part of the White House
to propose it,” Romney said in an excerpt of the interview
provided by NBC. “I think it was a mistake for the Republicans
to go along with it.”  While Romney, the Harvard-educated son of a former Michigan
governor, leads in polls of working class voters, former
Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  consistently performed better
with white working class Republicans during his unsuccessful bid
for the Republican nomination last spring.  During a visit to the Daytona 500 earlier this year, Romney
put himself more in the league of Nascar owners than fans,
telling a reporter that he had “some great friends” who own
teams. Democrats used the remark to paint him as wealthy and out
of touch with average Americans. Romney amassed a $250 million
fortune from his work as a private equity executive at Bain
Capital LLC.  Romney got another chance to court the largely white
audience of the sport tonight when he attended the Sprint Cup
Series Nascar race at the Richmond International Raceway.  As rain pounded down on the track, Romney shook hands,
signed helmets, and handed out hot dogs in a tent sponsored by
his campaign. Supporters wearing ponchos emblazoned with the
slogan “race car drivers 4 freedom” handed tee-shirts for
Romney to sign. And he posed for photos with drivers Jeff Burton
and Paul Menard in front of a race car covered with a Romney
campaign logo.  “There’s a lot of drivers I like,” he told reporters.  John Stanley, a Romney supporter attending his fifth race
of the year, said Romney seemed at ease at the raceway.  “He seems like that kind of down to earth guy,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  