-- Obama Weighs Executive Order to Defend Against Cyber Attacks
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m   a n d   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-09-08T18:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-08/obama-weighs-executive-order-to-defend-against-cyber-attacks.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration is drafting an executive order that would create
a program protecting vital  computer networks  from cyber attacks,
according to two former government officials with direct
knowledge of the effort.  The program, to be managed by the Department of Homeland
Security, would establish cybersecurity standards that companies
could voluntarily adopt to better protect banks,
telecommunication networks and the U.S. power grid from
electronic attacks, the officials, who have seen the draft, said
on condition of anonymity because the document hasn’t been made
public.  The draft, which remains under review and could change,
seeks to implement a key provision in a cybersecurity bill that
failed to advance in the Senate last month, the officials said.
The administration is contemplating using an executive order
because it isn’t clear Congress would pass a cybersecurity bill.  “An executive order is one of a number of measures we’re
considering as we look to implement the president’s direction to
do absolutely everything we can to better protect our nation
against today’s cyberthreats,” White House spokeswoman Caitlin
Hayden said in an e-mailed statement today. “We are not going
to comment on ongoing internal deliberations.”  The draft calls for the Department of  Homeland Security  to
create a council that would work with the National Institute of
Standards and Technology to establish the cybersecurity
standards, the officials said.  Company Incentives  The Senate bill offered companies incentives, such as legal
protections, for participating in the cybersecurity program and
meeting government-approved standards.  Administration officials are discussing what kind of
incentives could be offered through the executive order, one of
the officials said.  While the program contemplated in the draft order would be
voluntary, the Homeland Security Department would require
companies participating in it to submit reports describing how
they are protecting their networks, the official said.  The lack of incentives and the requirement for reports
could undermine the willingness of companies to participate in
the program, the official added.  John Brennan , Obama’s counterterrorism adviser, said on
Aug. 8 the administration would consider taking executive action
to protect computer networks.  “If the Congress is not going to act on something like
this, then the president wants to make sure that we’re doing
everything possible,” Brennan said.  ’Under Threat’  Senate Republicans and business groups including the  U.S.
Chamber of Commerce  blocked the cybersecurity bill. They said
the voluntary standards would be a back door to government
regulation of companies. The bill was sponsored by Senators  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent, and  Susan Collins , a Maine
Republican.  Brennan said opponents misrepresented the bill, which he
said called for minimum performance standards.  “Believe me, the critical infrastructure of this country
is under threat,” Brennan said, adding that foreign states and
hackers “are developing advanced technologies, and we have to
improve our defenses on this issue.”  Obama could accomplish many objectives of the Lieberman-
Collins bill with an executive order or other directive, Stewart
Baker, a former assistant secretary for policy at the Department
of Homeland Security, said in an interview last month.  The president could encourage operators of key facilities
to adopt voluntary standards, have the Homeland Security
Department coordinate that process and require existing
regulators that oversee infrastructure to make cybersecurity a
focus, said Baker, now a partner at the Steptoe & Johnson law
firm in  Washington .  Presidential Directive  Matthew Eggers, senior director of national security at the
Chamber of Commerce, has said an executive order would be
counterproductive and would show the administration wants to
regulate cybersecurity.  The Obama administration is already circulating a draft
presidential directive dealing with a related issue: collecting
and disseminating information about cybersecurity threats. That
reflects “early” discussions about how to update a 2003
directive for protecting the most critical U.S. assets and “is
not close to being done,” Hayden said on Aug. 29.  DHS Authority  One issue that the proposed directive didn’t clearly
explain is how much authority DHS would have to tell businesses
what they must do to protect their computer systems from attack.
The document says only that the department would plan
“requirements for vulnerability and risk assessments.”  Presidential directives typically address national security
or foreign policy matters. They are issued by the National
Security Council and may be classified. The directives carry the
same weight as executive orders, which deal with management and
operations of the executive branch.  The Republican-controlled  House of Representatives  passed a
bill in April that encourages businesses and government to share
cyberthreat information, without setting standards for
companies.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  called the House bill
“deeply flawed,” saying it threatens the privacy of consumer
data and does nothing to protect the nation’s infrastructure.  Lieberman’s bill is S. 3414. The House bill is H.R. 3523.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  