-- Monti Shifts Euro Crisis Fight From Markets to Public Sentiment
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-09-08T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-08/monti-shifts-euro-crisis-fight-from-markets-to-public-sentiment.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
said public skepticism about deeper European integration is
undermining the progress leaders have made fighting the
sovereign debt crisis.  The push to strengthen political and fiscal ties within the
27-nation European Union is threatened by insulting stereotypes
and nationalist rhetoric, Monti has said in statements over the
last four days. On Sept. 6, the premier proposed a code of
conduct to prevent leaders from stoking divisiveness, and
yesterday he called for a euro summit in  Rome  to address
tensions between Europe’s north and south.  “One can’t help note a growing and dangerous sentiment of
antagonism in member states,” Monti said yesterday in a
statement to reporters in Cernobbio,  Italy . “It’s paradoxical
and sad.”  Monti is focusing on public sentiment after action by
European leaders helped ease pressure in bond markets. Yields on
Italian and Spanish 10-year debt plummeted in the week ended
Sept. 7 to the lowest since April as European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  announced his plan to offer aid to
governments in financial distress.  “Just when we hoped to complete the integration both at a
psychological level and in the public opinion -- so eventually
at the political level -- we are rather witnessing the opposite
trend,” said Monti as he stood next to European Union President
 Herman Van Rompuy . Monti cited, “a number of conflicts aiming
at disintegration in almost all member states.”  Proposal Endorsed  Van Rompuy  endorsed the proposal for a special summit in
Rome.  The three-year crisis has taken its toll on voters from
 Athens  to Paris and produced a surge in popularity for
politicians who oppose European integration. In Italy, Monti’s
parliamentary coalition has lost ground in opinion polls to
euro-skeptic comedian Beppe Grillo, even as the prime minister’s
policies helped lower the country’s borrowing costs.  Monti imposed an austerity budget in Italy, and while
abroad he pushed his counterparts, including German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel , to back measures to relieve bond-market pressure.
Monti’s tax increases and spending cuts have helped curb Italy’s
budget deficit as the economy sank deeper into recession.  Italian bonds advanced last week, reducing the extra yield
that investors demand for holding the nation’s 10-year
securities instead of similar-maturity German bunds to 354 basis
points, the least in five months. On July 24 that spread had
topped 530 basis points, the highest since Monti took power in
November.  Monti compared the euro to the crowning ornament on a
gothic cathedral in a speech on Sept. 6, and said derisive
commentary, like insults traded in the German and Greek press,
threatens to destroy it. A former EU commissioner and university
president, Monti challenged Italian politicians to monitor their
rhetoric and warned lawmakers from northern  Europe  not to slight
their southern counterparts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Cernobbio at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Cernobbio at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  