-- RBS Said to Be in Talks With U.K. Regulators Over Libor
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2012-09-08T01:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-08/rbs-said-to-be-in-talks-with-u-k-regulators-over-libor.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  is
in talks with the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority to settle
accusations that some of its employees conspired to manipulate
Libor interest rates, a person familiar with the matter said.  The bank’s efforts to resolve the matter have been slowed
down by concern at  RBS (RBS)  over what happened at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in
June, when its settlement of allegations related to the London
interbank offered rate led to the ouster of Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond , said the person, who asked not to be
named because the matter wasn’t public.  The amount that RBS has been discussing as a settlement
would probably be greater than 290 million pounds ($462
million), the amount agreed to by Barclays, because of the
belief among regulators that the conduct at RBS was worse, the
person said.  UBS AG (UBSN) , based in Zurich, is also trying to reach a
settlement with regulators in the U.S. and U.K. over its role in
a scheme to manipulate Libor, said another person familiar with
the talks who also asked not to be named because the matter
wasn’t public.  Ed Canaday , a spokesman in the U.S. for Edinburgh-based RBS,
declined to comment on the talks.  Confidence in Libor, a benchmark for financial products
valued at $360 trillion worldwide, was dented by Barclays’
admission that it submitted false London and euro interbank
offered rates.  Lawsuits  Diamond, who built Barclays’s investment bank into the
world’s biggest global bond underwriter, resigned in July after
the bank was fined by U.S. and U.K. regulators for attempting to
rig Libor.  Antony Jenkins  replaced Diamond as CEO. Barclays also
faces class-action investor lawsuits related to Libor.  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted each day
on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in London. Lenders
are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from one another
for 15 different periods, from overnight to one year, in
currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss francs. After
a set number of quotes are excluded, those remaining are
averaged and published for each currency by the BBA before noon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Farrell in  New York  at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  