-- Treasuries Fall Amid ECB’s Crisis Plan, Inflation Concern
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-09-08T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-08/treasuries-fall-amid-ecb-s-crisis-plan-inflation-concern.html
Treasury yields rose for the first
time in three weeks as European officials detailed plans to curb
the region’s debt crisis and investors braced for more stimulus
from the  Federal Reserve  as the U.S. economic recovery falters.  Thirty-year bond yields climbed the most on concern the
announcement of a third round of debt buying at next week’s Fed
policy meeting may lead to an acceleration in inflation. The
U.S. will also sell $66 billion of notes and bonds next week.
Fed policy makers meet Sept. 12-13.  “In the short-term, it’s pretty straightforward,” said
 Carl Lantz , head of interest-rate strategy in New York at Credit
Suisse Group AG, one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the
central bank. “We’ll get a purchase announcement at the next
Fed meeting.”  Thirty-year yields  advanced 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 2.83 percent this week in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the 2.75
percent securities due in August 2042 dropped 3 3/32, or $30.94
per $1,000 face value, to 98 1/2.  Ten-year note  yields increased
12 basis points to 1.67 percent.  Yields on 10- and 30-year securities each slid 26 basis
points over the previous two weeks amid speculation the Fed
would buy more debt. The 10-year yield is now 29 basis points
above the  record low  of 1.379 percent reached on July 25. It
touched a three-month high of 1.86 percent on Aug. 21. Long-bond
yields reached a record low 2.44 percent on July 26.  Net Longs  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators more than
doubled their  net-long position  in 10-year note futures in the
week ended Sept. 4 to the highest level in more than four years,
according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 108,685 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade, the most since March 2008. Net-long positions
rose by 57,993 contracts, or 114 percent, from a week earlier,
the Washington-based commission said in its Commitments of
Traders report.  Treasury notes gained yesterday for the first time in four
days, paring their weekly loss, as U.S. job growth slowed more
than forecast. Payrolls data boosted bets the central bank will
add more stimulus to the economy through bond purchases under
the quantitative-easing stimulus strategy as soon as next week.  Employers added 96,000 positions in August, versus a
Bloomberg News survey’s forecast of 130,000 jobs and a revised
July increase of 141,000 that was lower than first reported. The
 unemployment rate  remained above 8 percent for a 43rd month.  ‘Grave Concern’  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , citing unemployment as a
“grave concern,” said Aug. 31 the central bank stands ready to
provide additional support. Speaking at an economics conference
in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , he said the costs of “nontraditional
policies” to spur the economy appeared manageable when
considered carefully. He has also pledged to keep borrowing
costs low into 2014.  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of Treasury and
mortgage-related debt from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of
quantitative easing. It has kept its  benchmark rate  at zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008.  Five- and seven-year notes led gains yesterday as traders
speculated mortgage investors will look to Treasuries as a hedge
with the Fed likely to increase purchases of similar-maturity
housing bonds.  ‘Next Week’  “QE is coming next week,”  Sean Murphy , a trader in New
York at the primary dealer Societe Generale SA, said yesterday.
“They’ll be buying mortgages or announcing some kind of
mortgage-buying program. What we’re seeing is buyers of fives
and sevens because the life of a mortgage averages out to that
area.”  A measure of relative yields on  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac
mortgage securities that guide home-loan rates tumbled yesterday
to the lowest in five years. A Bloomberg index of yields on
Fannie Mae-guaranteed mortgage bonds trading closest to face
value fell about six basis points to 114 basis points. It was
the narrowest spread since 2007.  Traders increased bets consumer prices will rise. The
difference between  yields  on conventional 10-year U.S. notes and
comparable Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities widened to
2.37 percentage points, the most in five months. The gap
represents the bond market’s expectations for the average rate
of inflation during the life of the debt. The figure has
averaged 2.19 percentage points in 2012.  The U.S. will auction $32 billion in three-year debt on
Sept. 11, $21 billion in 10-year securities the next day and $13
billion in 30-year bonds on Sept. 13.  ECB Program  Treasuries fell this week as demand for the safest assets
weakened when the  European Central Bank  announced a program to
buy euro-area  government bonds  to contain the area’s fiscal
turmoil. ECB President  Mario Draghi  announced the unlimited
purchase plan to regain control of  interest rates  in the region.  The U.S. payrolls data came two months before the
presidential election. Employment and the economy are central
themes in the campaign, with President  Barack Obama  and
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  each trying to convince voters
they can best energize the expansion and create jobs.  “It’s the No. 1 topic going into the election,”  Chris Ahrens , an interest-rate strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at
the primary dealer UBS AG, said yesterday. “The sense in the
market is that the central banks are on the move and are trying
to be as supportive to the economic environment as possible. The
bar is low for the Fed to institute another round of asset
purchases.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  