-- Samaras Says Spending Cuts Imperative to Keep Greece in Euro
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-09-08T12:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-08/samaras-says-greece-must-regain-credibility-to-stay-in-euro-area.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
said his two-year 11.5 billion-euro ($14.7 billion) package of
spending cuts contains unfair and painful decisions that are
necessary to restore credibility and keep the country in the
euro area.  “The truth is Greece came very close to exiting the
euro,” Samaras said today in a speech in Thessaloniki, northern
Greece. “Greece would die. We had to avert this immediate
threat. To regain credibility as a country we had to move ahead
with and honor our commitments.”  Inspectors from the euro area,  European Central Bank  and
 International Monetary Fund  begin judging planned budget cuts
and those already implemented tomorrow to determine whether the
country can receive funds allocated under a second international
rescue. The 31 billion euros due will mainly go to
recapitalizing banks to boost liquidity in a cash-starved
economy in a fifth year of recession.  Lenders to Greece held back on loans pledged under two
rescue packages totaling 240 billion euros in the wake of
inconclusive elections in May and June, which derailed reforms,
halted state-asset sales, and stoked concerns about the nation’s
future in the 17-nation euro, spurring Greeks to withdraw their
savings from banks.  Samaras said the plan unveiled this week by European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  to reduce  interest rates  for
struggling euro-area nations showed that it is better for Greece
to remain in the euro.  Regain Credibility  “Draghi’s decision the day before yesterday shows that the
solution for a modern and credible country, for every country of
 Europe , is in the euro,” Samaras said. “Staying in the euro
and regaining credibility is the fight we are fighting now. If
we left the euro, pensions wouldn’t be cut; they simply wouldn’t
exist. There would be no spending on medicine. Petrol wouldn’t
be more expensive: it would be rationed.”  The inconclusive May 6 ballot and the June 17 vote that
brought Samaras to power gave gains to the Syriza party, which
opposes the country’s bailouts from the EU and IMF even at risk
of ditching the euro. Syriza is now  Greece ’s biggest opposition
party.  Samaras’s coalition is made up of his New Democracy party,
the socialist Pasok party and Democratic Left, giving him 179
seats in the 300-seat parliament. The leaders of those parties
will meet tomorrow on the budget package, after Finance Minister
Yannis Stournaras briefs the so-called troika of inspectors on
the package.  Reverse Decisions  The Pasok and Democratic Left parties have criticized some
of the decisions Stournaras has made in drafting the package,
saying indiscriminate wage and pension cuts must be avoided.  Most of the savings will come from reduced pensions, wages
and benefits, according to a document obtained by Bloomberg on
Aug. 31. Samaras said today that some of those decisions may be
reversed once the economy returns to growth.  Greece has to reduce its  budget deficit  to 7.3 percent of
gross domestic product this year from 9.1 percent in 2011, and
cut its primary deficit, which excludes interest payments, to 1
percent from 2.4 percent under the bailout terms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  