-- Murray Wins Semifinal, Weather Suspends Rest of U.S. Open
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-09-08T22:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-08/u-s-open-women-s-final-postponed-by-bad-weather-until-tomorrow.html
Third-seeded  Andy Murray  swept into
the men’s final at the  U.S. Open  with a blustery four-set
victory today against No. 6 Tomas Berdych that was delayed by
rain and bedeviled by wind.  The second semifinal was halted in the first set with
fourth-seeded  David Ferrer  of  Spain  leading 5-2 against
defending champion Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  because of
approaching severe weather, and the women’s final set for
tonight was delayed until tomorrow afternoon.  The men’s final was rescheduled for Sept. 10, the fifth
straight year the tournament has been pushed into a third week
by bad weather at the National Tennis Center in  New York .  “We’re getting very tired of having Monday finals,”
tournament director David Brewer said in a news conference.  The Djokovic-Ferrer semifinal is set to resume at 11 a.m.
local time tomorrow, with the women’s final between top-seeded
Victoria Azarenka of Belarus and three-time champion  Serena Williams  set to begin at 4:30 p.m.  The men’s final is now scheduled to start at 4 p.m. on
Sept. 10.  Murray, 25, of Britain will play in his second U.S. Open
final after defeating Berdych, 26, of the Czech Republic 5-7,
6-2, 6-1, 7-6 (9-7) in a match that lasted almost four hours.
Murray was runnerup to  Switzerland ’s  Roger Federer  in 2008.  Murray is trying to become the first British man to capture
a Grand Slam singles title since  Fred Perry  won Wimbledon and
the U.S. Open in 1936.  “Winning a major is the last thing that I really want to
do,” Murray, who won gold at the London Olympics, said in a
news conference. “Yeah, it means a lot to me.”  ‘Brutal’ Conditions  The Murray-Berdych semifinal started more than an hour late
because of rain and a tornado warning. Wind gusts of up to 35
miles per hour (56 kilometers per hour) forced the men to play
tentatively and take much of the pace off their shots.  “It was brutal,” Murray said in a televised interview.
“Some of the hardest conditions I’ve ever played in, for sure,
and I come from  Scotland , so that’s saying something.”  It seemed to have more of an impact on Berdych, who has one
of the highest ball tosses on his serve. After hitting a serve
at 137 mph earlier in the tournament, he hit first serves as
slow as 77 mph today and had six double faults while losing
seven of his 20 service games.  The swirling wind sent napkins and plastic bags from the
stands floating above the players, and a point had to be stopped
when Murray’s chair and gym bag blew onto the court.  Hat Flies  Up a service break at 2-1 in the first set and facing break
point while serving, Murray’s hat was blown off as he hit a drop
shot that Berdych was unable to reach.  Chair umpire Pascal Maria at first awarded Murray the
point. Berdych then complained that the fallen hat distracted
him, hindering his attempt to play the drop shot, and that the
point should be replayed.  During an exchange at the net, Murray asked Berdych several
times if he was “100 percent sure” that he was hindered. When
Berdych said he was, Murray agreed to replay the point and had
his serve broken. He went on to lose the set, and played the
rest of the match without the hat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  