-- Yankees Regain Sole AL East Lead After 8-5 Victory Over Orioles
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-09-08T07:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-08/yankees-beat-orioles-8-5-to-take-sole-possession-of-al-east-lead.html
The New York Yankees reclaimed sole
possession of the American League East lead on three homers
yielding seven runs in their 8-5 victory over the Baltimore
Orioles.  The Yankees (78-60) are one game ahead of the Orioles (77-
61) in the AL East and tied at 1-1 in the teams’ four-game
series which continues tonight at Oriole Park at Camden Yards.
The Orioles and  Oakland Athletics  (77-60), who beat the Seattle
Mariners 6-1, hold the top two spots in the AL wild-card race.  In the National League, the Washington Nationals, with the
best record of 85-53 in Major League Baseball, lost 9-7 to the
Miami Marlins last night. The Atlanta Braves and the St. Louis
Cardinals top the NL wild-card standings.  Russell Martin  had a three-run homer followed by Steve Pearce’s two-run blast in the fourth inning off Oriole starter
Wei-Yin Chen last night.  Alex Rodriguez  added two more runs with
his 645th career homer and 300th as a Yankee in the fifth.  “I had no idea I had 300,” Rodriguez told reporters.
“The only numbers we’re worried about right now is W’s.
Whatever you are going to do for the year is already done. The
numbers are done. We’re worried about one thing and that’s
winning games.”  Rodriguez became the sixth to reach 300 home runs as a
Yankee, joining  Babe Ruth  (659),  Mickey Mantle  (536), Lou Gehrig
(493),  Joe DiMaggio  (361) and  Yogi Berra  (358), according to
Elias Sports Bureau.  Derek Jeter ’s run-scoring single in the ninth capped the
Yankees’ win.  ‘It Was Huge’  “It was huge,” Rodriguez said, referring to the win.
“Every game from now on is huge, especially when you get to
September. One of the challenges I have for the offense is that
we should be able to score six runs every night. If we’re
disciplined and put up great at-bats, six runs is a good
number.”  The Yankees and Orioles each have 24 games left before the
season ends Oct. 3.  The Orioles, down 7-0, got three runs off  Adam Jones ’s
homer in the sixth inning and two more off Robert Andino’s homer
in the seventh. Manny Machado capped the scoring with a home run
in the ninth.  Phil Hughes  (14-12) allowed three runs on six hits and
struck out five in six innings for the win.  “I treated it like any other game. I tried to pitch the
best ball game I could,” Hughes said when asked if he felt
pressured pitching in a pennant race. “That doesn’t really
change start to start. It was a good win for us.”  Chen (12-9) was pulled after 4 2/3 innings when he
surrendered seven runs on six hits.  “Actually I feel real good today,” Chen told reporters
through an interpreter. “I wasn’t able to attack the strike
zone like in the late innings, and that was the problem. This is
the Yankees, and I made a couple of mistakes and they made me
pay the price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  