-- ‘Rebecca’ Musical Producers Add Press Agent to Lawsuit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-01-30T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/-rebecca-musical-producers-add-press-agent-to-lawsuit.html
The producers of “Rebecca: The
Musical” added a press agent to their pending lawsuit against a
man charged with inventing investors who were purportedly
prepared to save the Broadway musical.  The producers, Ben Sprecher and Louise Forlenza, filed the
original suit in New York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan  in
October, seeking more than $100 million from Mark Christopher
Hotton and his wife, who they claim sabotaged their $12 million
musical with an elaborate fraud.  Mark Hotton, a former Oppenheimer & Co. broker, was
arrested Oct. 15 at his West Islip, New York, home and charged
with wire fraud. U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan said
Hotton fabricated investors ready to put $4.5 million into the
show and a possible $1.1 million loan to get tens of thousands
of dollars in purported expenses and fees from the producers.  Hotton pleaded not guilty.  Sprecher and Forlenza filed an amended complaint yesterday
adding their press representative, Marc Thibodeau, to the state
court suit and accusing him of sending e-mails to a man, and his
lawyers, who was prepared to invest in the production just
before it collapsed, causing the unidentified man to back out.  Lost Investment  “Thibodeau’s conduct was intended to, and did, have the
result of causing the loss of the angel investor’s investment,”
the producers said in the new complaint. “Thibodeau knew and
intended that the angel investor’s refusal to proceed with its
investment would prevent the musical from going forward unless
replacement financing could be found.”  The press agent’s lawyer, Jeffrey Lichtman, said in an e-
mailed statement that Thibodeau is an “innocent whistle-blower
with an impeccable reputation on Broadway who anonymously warned
an innocent investor not to sink $2 million into the sinking
ship that was ‘Rebecca.’”.  Lichtman said his client discovered Hotton was “knee-deep
in fraud” after a 10-second Google search.  ‘Red Flags’  “When Marc warned Sprecher about these obvious red flags,
Sprecher replied, ‘We’re not going to talk about this any
more,’” and focused on Hotton’s continuing to raise money for
the show, Lichtman said.  In a Sept. 28, 2012, e-mail, Thibodeau warned the
unidentified investor that “the walls are about to cave in on
Mr. Sprecher and the Rebecca Broadway production,” the
producers said in the amended complaint. Thibodeau used the
pseudonym “Sarah Finkelstein.”  Ron Russo, a lawyer for the producers, declined to name the
investor who received the e-mail.  “He was a wealthy guy who didn’t want to be identified as
a Broadway investor,” Russo said in an interview.  Russo said the producers were able to identify Thibodeau as
the author of the e-mails after subpoenaing records of Google
Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc. as part of the suit.  The case is Rebecca Broadway Limited Partnership v.
Hotton, 653659/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York
County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Boroff in New York
at   pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at  mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey Burke at   jburke21@bloomberg.net . 