-- T. Rowe Price Profit Misses Estimates as Clients Redeem
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-01-29T22:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/t-rowe-price-net-rises-23-as-market-gains-lift-assets.html
T. Rowe Price Group Inc. (TROW) , the asset
manager that has posted a profit every quarter since going
public in 1986, reported earnings that missed analysts’
estimates as clients pulled money for the first time in five
quarters.  Net income in the fourth quarter increased 23 percent to
$229.9 million, or 88 cents a share, the Baltimore-based company
said today in a statement. Profit missed the 89 cents-a-share
average estimate of 13 analysts in a Bloomberg survey after
customers withdrew $4.2 billion in the quarter.  “These results are somewhat weak,” James Shanahan, an
equity analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , said in a
telephone interview. “Outflows are relatively rare for T. Rowe
and for it to happen now is a surprise.”  Chief Executive Officer James Kennedy said in an interview
that redemptions from mutual funds were “heavily loaded in
December” when investors were waiting for political leaders to
strike a budget deal. Clients returned to stock funds this
month, said Kennedy, who has relied on popular retirement-
oriented products and strong performance among active fund
managers to attract customers.  T. Rowe fell 0.8 percent to close at $71.61 in  New York .
The shares had risen 21 percent in the past year through
yesterday, compared with the 30 percent gain for Standard &
Poor’s 20-company  index  of asset managers and custody banks.  Equity Shift  With about three-quarters of its assets in equities, T.
Rowe has increased the money it oversees for four straight years
even as U.S. mutual-fund investors have shunned stocks for
bonds. U.S. stock mutual funds got net deposits for the second
straight week in January as investors started to shift into
equities, according to the  Investment Company Institute .  “In January, people have moved back into equities. It’s
true for the industry and it’s true for us,” Kennedy said.  Institutional withdrawals were concentrated in products
that invest outside the U.S., he said.  T. Rowe’s assets rose 18 percent in 2012 to $576.8 billion,
helped by a 13 percent gain by global stocks as measured by the
MSCI AC World Index. Customer withdrawals in the fourth quarter
included about $400 million from mutual funds and $3.8 billion
from institutional and other accounts.  Investors withdrew $1.4 billion from stock and blended
mutual funds in the quarter while depositing $1 billion into
bond and money-market funds. T. Rowe last had net withdrawals in
the third quarter of 2011 and has recorded only four quarters of
redemptions since 2000, Kennedy said.  Assets Rise  The increase in assets helped boost revenue 17 percent to
$787.3 million, driven by a 19 percent jump in investment
advisory fees. Revenue growth outpaced the 13 percent increase
in expenses to $426.1 million.  Kennedy said the  U.S. economy  appears poised for stronger
growth, with the automobile industry and housing gathering
“reasonable momentum.” U.S. politicians agreed in January to
raise taxes and delayed the imposition of automatic spending
cuts while they seek a longer-term budget agreement.  “All we need is a little confidence and some decision
making coming out of  Washington ,” Kennedy said.  T. Rowe mutual funds outperformed 74 percent of their peers
in 2012, 78 percent over the past three years and 84 percent
over five years, based on data compiled by Lipper, the company
said.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest asset manager, said
Jan. 17 its fourth-quarter net income rose 24 percent as the New
York-based company attracted $47 billion in net deposits.
Denver-based  Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS)  said Jan. 23 fourth-
quarter net income fell 13 percent as clients withdrew $3.5
billion and poor performance reduced fees.  David Giroux, manager of the $13.8 billion T. Rowe Price
Capital Appreciation Fund, was named research firm  Morningstar
Inc. (MORN) ’s fund manager of the year in the allocation category. The
fund returned 15 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  