-- 3i Rises After Saying That Bramson Has Been Buying its Shares
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-01-29T08:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/3i-rises-after-saying-that-bramson-has-been-buying-its-shares.html
3i Group Plc (III) , Britain’s oldest
private-equity firm, rose to the highest in almost 18 months in
London trading after saying that activist investor  Edward Bramson  has been buying its shares.  Bramson’s Sherborne Investors began trading 3i shares on
Jan. 2, the London-based private-equity firm said in a statement
today. 3i said it “believes” Sherborne has been selling the
stock to Jefferies International Ltd., which owned 1.6 percent
of 3i as of Jan. 22, according to the statement.  Bramson, 61, became chairman of London-based  F&C Asset
Management Plc (FCAM)  in February 2011 after criticizing the company’s
business strategy and ousting his predecessor. 3i replaced its
chief executive officer last year and began closing offices in
 Asia  to cut costs after shareholders urged the company to stop
making deals and return money to investors.  3i  jumped  as much as 5.3 percent and was up 8.1 pence at
267 pence as of 8:20 a.m. in  London , valuing the company at
about 2.6 billion pounds ($4.1 billion). The stock has climbed
48 percent over the past year.  Sherborne raised 207 million pounds in a share sale last
year and said it planned to “realize capital growth from
investment in a target company,” according to a Nov. 15
statement. Sherborne said it would only invest in one company at
a time and would focus on a publicly traded U.K. firm that “it
considers to be undervalued as a result of operational
deficiencies,” according to the November statement.  3i issued today’s statement “in the interest of
transparency,” spokeswoman Kathryn van der Kroft said by
telephone. Billy Clegg, a spokesman for Sherborne, had no
immediate comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  