-- A Woman’s Place Is on the Battlefield. Maybe.
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-01-29T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/a-woman-s-place-is-on-the-battlefield-maybe-.html
I’m all for women building
skyscrapers, driving trucks, piloting planes, operating on my
daughter, publishing newspapers, directing movies, building
roads and flying to the moon. I want 150 million cracks in the
glass ceiling and a female president.  I’m on the fence, however, about women in combat. Should
women be equal in the military? Of course. Should they serve
wherever they can? Yes. Should they get promotions and four
stars? Absolutely. But I would feel better if the Pentagon were
also doing a lot of other things to improve the lives and
careers of military women.  If we ever have a draft again, women will be subject to it
the same as men, just as they have been subject to the dangers
of war for the past two decades. In  Iraq  and Afghanistan, more
than 20,000 women have served, 850 have been wounded and as of
Jan. 24, when Defense Secretary Leon Panetta  announced  women
could serve in combat roles, 152 have died. It’s time they were
acknowledged, compensated and promoted for their sacrifice.  The policy was last reviewed in 1994, when the Clinton
administration, no slouch when it came to equality of the sexes,
decided against opening up infantry, armor and artillery
positions to women. That decision was largely based on the cold
hard truth that men and women are different -- physically. I’m
not talking about how boys like trucks and girls like dolls.
This is about a stark difference in upper-body strength that no
legislation can correct.  Changing Definitions  Nineteen years later, the pressure to review the 1994
decision was high. Women argue, legitimately, that by being kept
from combat units they’re being denied the top jobs. What’s
combat and what isn’t has changed in this man’s (and woman’s)
army. In the mountains of  Afghanistan  or the deserts of Iraq,
the “front” is an illusion. Women actually serve in combat
positions -- they’re just not called that.  Take  the case  of Major Mary Jennings Hegar, an Air National
Guard helicopter pilot who was shot down and wounded in
Afghanistan in 2009. The job she did, and the wounds she
suffered, were comparable to a man in a certified combat role.
Yet she was not eligible for promotion in the same way a man
would have been.  That’s not fair. With last week’s policy change, now she
will be. Still, many in the military worry whether the newly
equal military could be more dangerous: What if you are wounded
and your comrade isn’t strong enough to carry you from the field
of battle?  The question is so volatile that on Jan. 28, General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,  addressed  the
“fear” that standards will be lowered. “The standards will be
gender-neutral -- the same for men and women.”  And yet, standards have already been gender-normed, if not
lowered. A woman can pass through basic training with  fewer 
chin-ups, less rope climbing, and fewer miles run. The question
isn’t whether the standards are different for women -- many are
-- but whether the standards are germane to the job.  What Dempsey is saying is that a set of standards specific
to an infantry job will be developed, and that it will be the
same for men and women. If a soldier can’t throw a grenade 15
meters, he or she would be putting the company in danger, not
the enemy.  The closer and more present danger for women in the
military may be from friendly fire. Just as the Pentagon was
welcoming women into its combat ranks last week, Air Force Chief
of Staff Mark Welsh was  testifying before Congress  about the
“appalling” number of sexual assaults last year, which he called
a “cancer” on the military. Overall, between 20 percent and 40
percent of servicewomen are victims of rape or attempted rape in
their careers. The Pentagon says there are two to three sexual
assaults for every 1,000 active-duty soldiers.  Sexual Misconduct  The Pentagon really doesn’t have a grip on the sexual
misconduct in its midst. Accused military personnel are treated
like abusive priests: Commanders don’t have to report their
crimes, and they can be transferred from one base to another
without anyone knowing. As bad as the statistics are, Panetta
acknowledges that the actual number of assaults is much higher.  Welsh testified about episodes at Lackland Air Force Base
in  San Antonio ,  Texas , where instructors took advantage of as
many as 59 recruits. The  Tailhook scandal , in which dozens of
women were assaulted, happened in one night. This happened over
many months. Only a few of the victims reported what happened at
the time.  Aside from the sexual violence, there is an epidemic of
unintended pregnancies. In 2008, more than 10 percent of women
in the military had  unintended pregnancies , a percentage far
higher than in the general population. There are lots of
reasons: spotty access to  birth control  over a long deployment,
the military’s ban on abortions in military hospitals, and the
general tendency of men to be men and women to be women,
especially at the tender ages many enlist. And sex between
soldiers of the same rank is legal, if not advisable. As in
private life, affairs, rivalries and break-ups wreak havoc, all
the more troublesome on a battlefield.  There is one big advantage to women in combat that Panetta
didn’t talk about last week. The Pentagon needs to do something
to reduce the plague of sexual assault among the rank and file,
and elevating women to combat roles could help with that. You
don’t sexually attack someone you may be in a foxhole with. In
that way, it’s still Patton’s army.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 