-- Tablemac Tumbles After Being Dropped From Colcap
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2013-01-29T17:54:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/tablemac-tumbles-after-being-dropped-from-colcap.html
Tablemac SA (TABLEMA) , a Colombian maker of
wood floors and furniture, fell the most since November after
the stock exchange said the company would be dropped from the
benchmark Colcap index at the end of the month.  Tablemac, based in Medellin, tumbled 5.5 percent to 7.7
pesos at 11:35 a.m. in Bogota trading. It was the biggest
decline on an intraday basis since Nov. 7. The Colcap, which
includes about 20 stocks, fell 0.1 percent.  Tablemac will leave the index effective Feb. 1 as part of a
quarterly rebalancing along with packager Carvajal Empaques SA
and phone company Empresa de Telecomunicaciones de Bogota SA,
the exchange said in a  statement  late yesterday. The exchange,
which says membership in the  Colcap (COLCAP)  is determined by “adjusted
market capitalization,” didn’t provide specific reasons for the
changes.  Tablemac shares plunged earlier this month after brokerage
Bolsa y Renta SA said the stock was likely to be dropped, then
rebounded after  Bancolombia SA (BCOLO)  said it would probably stay in.  Helm Bank SA (PFBHELMB) , utility Empresa de Energia de Bogota SA and
cement maker  Cemex Latam Holdings SA (CLH)  will join the Colcap, the
exchange said. While Helm Bank agreed in October to be acquired
by Chile’s Corpbanca SA, the transaction hasn’t closed.  Bancolombia had predicted that Helm Bank would be kept out.  “The market wasn’t sure if the stock exchange would
consider Helm eligible for the index,” said Mauricio Hernandez,
an analyst at Corredores Asociados SA.  Bogota-based ETB fell 1 percent to 388 pesos today while
Carvajal was unchanged. Cemex Latam gained 0.3 percent, EEB fell
1.1 percent and Helm rose 0.2 percent.  Tablemac President Juan Fernando Vasquez didn’t immediately
respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  