-- Accused 9-11 Attackers Skip Court; Lawyers Seek Jail
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2013-01-30T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/accused-9-11-attackers-skip-court-lawyers-seek-jail.html
The five men accused of directing
the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks chose not to appear in a
military courtroom in Cuba as defense lawyers asked to spend two
nights in their clients’ high-security prison.  As proceedings began in the second day of pre-trial
hearings at the U.S. naval base in Guantanamo Bay, the chairs
for the five defendants, including accused ringleader Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, remained empty. A military officer told the
judge presiding over the tribunal that he went to Mohammed’s
cell at 5:03 a.m. yesterday and asked if he wanted to attend.  “He indicated he did not,” as did the other men, Army
Major Michael Griffin said.  The judge, Army Colonel James Pohl, discussed the procedure
for the defense to call witnesses at a trial, which may be more
than a year away, whether the defense must tell prosecutors what
the defendants will say in any eventual testimony, and the scope
of lawyers’ access to the prison where their clients are held.  Walter Ruiz, the lawyer for Mustafa al Hawsawi, told Pohl
that he and two members of his legal team want to spend two
nights in the facility at the base, perhaps in a cell adjacent
to his client. He proposed recurring visits every six months.  “That would be the best and the closest that we could get
to try to have an understanding of the  living conditions ,” Ruiz
said, adding that evidence of harsh conditions may be used to
seek a sentence other than death if the men are convicted.  Prison Life  Other lawyers joined in the request. David Nevin, the
lawyer for Mohammed, said the defense wants to understand
“exactly what life in these camps is like, particularly
considered in the context of a person who was tortured,” as he
said his client was from his 2003 arrest in  Pakistan  until his
2006 transfer to Guantanamo.  Prosecutors suggested a single “time-limited” visit,
where the lawyers may see the cells without talking to their
clients. They opposed an overnight stay, citing issues including
security concerns.  “The government is agreeing to grant a site visit” and
tour, Army Major Robert McGovern told Pohl. “We don’t think
it’s appropriate that they can walk around the facility tapping
people on the shoulder.”  The judge didn’t rule on this request, or a related bid for
records of Guantanamo Bay prison visits by the International
Committee of the Red Cross.  Next Month  Hearings were scheduled to run for four days. Pohl canceled
today’s session after granting a defense request to supplement a
motion to present certain witnesses at hearings in February and
possibly April. It wasn’t unclear whether the court would
convene tomorrow.  In addition, Pohl said he would wait until next month to
hear arguments on whether the government must preserve existing
evidence from so-called black sites where some of the defendants
claim to have been tortured. The issue and the procedure for
addressing it had been on this week’s agenda.  The judge voiced uncertainty about a plan to summon a
witness to testify about why a white-noise machine was switched
on Jan. 28, blocking observers from hearing comments from Nevin.
Pohl said he was unsure who to summon to the stand.  “I decide” whether to use the device, which is meant to
block disclosure of in-court statements about classified
information, Pohl said. Nevin’s comment about the pending black-
sites motion was “not a valid basis” to do so, he said.  Other Defendants  Mohammed and the four other defendants are accused of
plotting the attacks that used hijacked passenger airplanes to
kill almost 3,000 people at the World Trade Center in  Manhattan ,
the Pentagon in  Virginia , and in  Pennsylvania . They are charged
with conspiring to finance, train and direct the 19 hijackers
who seized the planes, terrorism, hijacking aircraft,
conspiracy, murder in violation of the laws of war and attacking
civilians.  Walid bin Attash, who is accused of selecting and training
some of the 19 hijackers, told Pohl on Jan. 28 he and the others
don’t trust their attorneys because prosecutors are interfering
in their lawyer-client relationship. The brief outburst came as
Pohl was explaining that the men may choose not to attend the
remaining hearings this week, and those next month.  The defense is seeking evidence that the government used
torture to elicit witness statements or leads in their
investigation of the 2001 attacks. James Connell, an attorney
for Ali Abdul Aziz Ali, a nephew of Mohammed’s, said at a Jan.
27 news conference that the defense may be able to exclude some
government evidence at trial if lawyers can show it was derived
from torture.  ‘Hurt, Proud’  After court, Matthew Seelitto, one of eight relatives of
victims to make the trip to Cuba for the hearings, said he was
“hurt” by the delay while “proud” of the country for
ensuring that the legal process is fair. His son, Matthew, 23,
worked at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in the World Trade Center.  Seelitto said his son called him after the planes struck to
say he was trapped and “I love you.”  Seelitto said Pohl should reject a defense request that
Aziz Ali be allowed to make a phone call to his family because
of his father’s death. The judge, while “sympathetic” to the
request, said he may lack a “legal basis” to order prison
officials to permit the call.  The case is U.S. v. Mohammed, Military Commissions Trial
(Guantanamo Bay, Cuba).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  