-- Agent Tellem Says Hunter Must Be Replaced as NBA Union’s Leader
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-01-29T16:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/agent-tellem-says-hunter-must-be-replaced-as-nba-union-s-leader.html
Billy Hunter must be fired as head
of the National Basketball Association players’ union after he
made personal interest his top priority, according to Arn Tellem, one of the most influential agents in sports.  Tellem accused Hunter of “treachery” in leading the union
for the last 17 years. He is the first agent to call for
Hunter’s removal since the findings of an outside investigation
of union business practices was released two weeks ago.  Tellem sent a letter last night to his clients, including
former Most Valuable Player  Derrick Rose  of the Chicago
Bulls, Joe Johnson of the Brooklyn Nets, Pau Gasol of the Los
Angeles Lakers and LaMarcus Aldridge of the Portland Trail
Blazers, lambasting Hunter’s record and urging the players to
oust him as executive director of the National Basketball
Players Association during next month’s All-Star weekend.  “Mr. Hunter works for you, though he clearly doesn’t
realize it,” Tellem said in the letter, a copy of which was
obtained by Bloomberg News. “If you don’t act now, Mr. Hunter’s
treachery will stand and the players’ ability to point their
union in the right direction will be delayed and compromised to
your continued detriment.”  Hunter didn’t return a text message seeking comment. Dan Wasserman, a spokesman for the union, declined to comment on
Tellem’s remarks in a telephone interview.  The investigation by the  New York  law firm Paul, Weiss,
Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison determined that Hunter, 70, put his
personal interests ahead of the union’s, failed to manage
conflicts of interest and hid the fact that his contract wasn’t
properly approved.  The report said players should consider replacing Hunter,
who took over as executive director in 1996. It said Hunter
didn’t do anything illegal.  ‘Deserve Better’  “NBA players deserve better representation from the union
they fund,” Tellem wrote in the letter, which was earlier
reported by the New York Times. “I implore you and your fellow
players to take control of your union and your future. It’s time
for Mr. Hunter to go.”  Hunter, a former U.S. Attorney, said in a statement after
the Paul, Weiss report that the five-year contract that pays him
$3 million annually is valid.  The U.S. Attorney’s Office in  Manhattan  began an
investigation into the union after the organization’s President,
Derek Fisher, asked for independent reviews of the association’s
finances and business practices.  Tellem clients Kris Humphries of the Nets, Kendrick Perkins
of the Oklahoma City Thunder and Brandon Knight of the Detroit
Pistons are player representatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  