-- Ray LaHood Stepping Down as Obama’s Transportation Chief
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-01-29T20:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/lahood-said-to-step-down-as-obama-s-transportation-chief.html
U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, one of two Republicans to serve in President  Barack Obama ’s Cabinet, said he is stepping down.  LaHood, 67, announced his plan in a meeting with top staff
members at the Transportation Department’s headquarters in
 Washington , saying he’ll stay for a few months until a successor
is confirmed by the  U.S. Senate .  “As I look back on the past four years, I am proud of what
we have accomplished together in so many important areas,”
LaHood said today in an e-mailed statement.  The former Illinois representative’s future had been
unclear as Obama assembles other Cabinet members for his second
term. LaHood said at a Jan. 21 party following Obama’s
inauguration that he would be “sticking around for a while,”
without specifying how long.  “Years ago, we were drawn together by a shared belief that
those of us in public service owe an allegiance not to party or
faction, but to the people we were elected to represent,”
Obama, a former U.S. senator from  Illinois , said in an e-mailed
statement. “And Ray has never wavered in that belief.”  During his tenure, LaHood made distracted driving a
centerpiece issue. He brought attention to dangers caused by
texting and driving while shying away in recent years from
criticizing infotainment systems installed in cars.  LaHood didn’t talk about who may replace him, according to
people familiar with the staff meeting.  Distracted Driving  LaHood will be remembered for his handling of a huge
infusion of cash for transportation projects from Obama’s 2009
economic stimulus package and for his campaign against driving
while distracted, said Joshua Schank, president and chief
executive officer of the Eno Center for Transportation, a
research institute based in Washington.  John Horsley, executive director of the  American
Association  of State Highway and Transportation Officials,
credited LaHood for the campaign on safe driving.  “Distracted driving is a national priority today because
of his personal zeal,” Horsley said in an e-mailed statement.  Cabinet Diversity  Los Angeles Democratic Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa  and
National Transportation Safety Board Chairman  Deborah Hersman 
are among people who have been cited by industry groups and in
published reports as potential replacements. At a Jan. 14 news
conference, Obama defended his record of appointing women and
minorities, responding to critics after selecting white men to
fill vacancies at the Treasury, State and Defense departments.  Hersman, 42, is leading a probe of the  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787
Dreamliner plane, which was grounded following two incidents
this month involving fire or smoke from the aircraft’s lithium-
ion batteries. She toured the North American International Auto
Show in  Detroit  this month after upsetting automakers in late
2011 by saying no phone calls should be made while driving.  Villaraigosa, 60, has been an advocate for  California ’s
high-speed rail project. He traveled to Washington this month to
give a speech at the  National Press Club  about immigration
reform and to celebrate Obama’s inauguration.  A secretary in Villaraigosa’s office referred questions
about a possible nomination to the White House.  Transportation Budget  LaHood could depart during the department’s budgeting
process following Obama’s scheduled Feb. 5 release of a spending
plan for the 2014 fiscal year. Typically, Cabinet secretaries
represent their agencies at hearings in the House and Senate as
they push for their departments to get funding.  This month, LaHood expressed confidence in the Dreamliner
as little as two days before his department’s  Federal Aviation
Administration  grounded the fleet. In 2010, he said at a House
Appropriations panel hearing that owners should “stop driving”
recalled Toyota Motor Corp. vehicles and take them to a dealer,
sending Toyota’s American depositary receipts to a 10-month
intraday low. At the hearing’s close, about two hours later, he
backed off the statement, saying he’d overreached.  LaHood has been the president’s principal advocate for
increased spending on highways, bridges and transportation
facilities that Obama says are needed to heal the  U.S. economy .
Obama’s efforts to expand U.S. high-speed passenger rail service
has been stalled by Congress’s refusal to keep paying for it.  Infrastructure Spending  LaHood will leave unfinished the implementation of high-
speed rail in the U.S. and unanswered the question of how to
fund highway and transit spending in the future, as gasoline tax
revenues decrease relative to spending needs for surface
transportation.  He has yet to issue promised guidelines for automakers on
distracted driving or a $2.7 billion rule that would require
backup cameras in all new cars. The FAA is due to issue two
rules on pilot training and qualification that were mandated by
Congress and is supposed to decide how to regulate drone flights
in U.S. civilian airspace.  The department’s Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration is due to issue a proposed rule requiring
electronic on-board recorders to track commercial truck drivers’
on-duty time after a 2010 version of the regulation was thrown
out by a U.S. appeals court. The rule may cost the trucking
industry more than $1 billion.  LaHood served seven terms as a U.S. representative from
Peoria, Illinois. From 2005 through 2009 he worked with Obama,
then a U.S. senator, in the state’s congressional delegation. He
is the only Republican currently in Obama’s Cabinet.  Former Nebraska Republican Senator Chuck Hagel has been
nominated to lead the Pentagon. Then-Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , who left that post in 2011, joined LaHood as the second
Republican in Obama’s initial Cabinet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  