-- Taiwan Boosts Limit on China Securities Investment to $1B
-- B y   C i n d y   W a n g   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-01-30T04:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/taiwan-boosts-limit-on-china-securities-investment-to-1-billion.html
Taiwan will double the limit on
mainland Chinese institutions’ securities investments in its
market as the cross-strait economic relationship deepens.
Brokerage shares advanced in Taipei.  Maximum inbound investment from China will be increased to
$1 billion from $500 million, according to Huang Tien-mu,
Taiwan’s securities regulator. He spoke after a meeting
yesterday between  Guo Shuqing , chairman of the China Securities
Regulatory Commission, and Taiwan’s top market regulator,  Chen Yuh-chang , in Taipei.  The increased scope for investment from China coincides
with Taiwan’s central bank allowing domestic lenders to conduct
yuan business and as the island’s tourism bureau doubles the
quota for mainland visitors. Financial market regulators on both
sides of the Taiwan Strait signed a non-binding cooperation
agreement in 2009.  “The easing of rules will be a new growth driver for
brokerages in the long term,”  Parker Wu , who helps oversee the
equivalent of $98 million at the Agricultural Bank of Taiwan,
said by phone today. “This is just the beginning. We look
forward to more and more interaction which brings fund flows.”  Brokerage shares rose in Taipei trading after the
announcement.  Yuanta Financial Holding Co. , which owned the
biggest brokerage by trading value for the month of December,
rose 3.9 percent to NT$15.90 at 12:17 p.m. local time, heading
for the highest close since March 28. Capital Securities Corp
advanced 5 percent, the most in more than two months.  QFII Rules  China may relax minimum management asset requirements for
Taiwan brokerages seeking quotas under the Qualified Foreign
Institutional Investment program, CSRC Director General of
International Affairs Tong Daochi told reporters in Taipei.
Funds from outside China invest in the country’s capital markets
through the QFII program.  Taiwan insurers such as Nan Shan Life Insurance Co., Fubon
Life Insurance Co. and Cathay Life Insurance Co. are among 207
approved QFIIs that have access to mainland stocks.  The CSRC is also considering a pilot program in Taiwan of
the Renminbi Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor, or RQFII,
which allows for the repatriation of offshore yuan, Tong said.
It may raise the total RQFII quota by 100 billion yuan ($16.1
billion) for use in Taiwan, according to Tong.  The  Bank of New York Mellon Taiwan ADR Index , which tracks
American depositary receipts of Taiwanese companies traded in
New York, climbed 1 percent to 244.02, its steepest one-day
advance since Jan. 17. The ADR index has rallied 30 percent from
a July 23 low.  Joint-Venture Trial  China will start a trial allowing Taiwan brokerages to hold
controlling stakes in investment-consulting joint ventures in
pilot areas, Taiwan’s Financial Supervisory Commission said in a
statement yesterday after the meeting. Tong earlier identified
those areas as Fujian province and the cities of Shanghai and
Shenzhen.  Taiwan futures companies will also be allowed to set up
joint ventures on the mainland and the island’s securities
companies can hold controlling stakes in fund companies, the FSC
said. Taiwan may ease rules to allow mainland securities and
futures firms to invest in their counterparts on the island.  Chinese regulators loosened restrictions on foreign-
invested joint ventures in 2012, allowing institutions to hold
as much as 49 percent of a joint venture, up from 33 percent.  The cross-strait neighbors, divided since Chiang Kai-shek’s
Kuomintang government fled from Mao Zedong’s communist forces in
1949, signed a yuan-clearing agreement in August, allowing for
deposits and trading in the currency outside of China.  Taiwanese government bonds handed investors a 2.8 percent
return in 2012, compared with 3 percent for Chinese onshore
sovereign notes and 5.3 percent for Dim Sum debt, data compiled
by HSBC Holdings Plc show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cindy Wang in Taipei at 
 hwang61@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  