-- Western Donors Pledge Mali Funds as Troops Take Timbuktu
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-01-29T16:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/mali-troops-take-timbuktu-as-donors-pledge-african-force-funds.html
Donor nations pledged $455 million
for an African force to help clear northern Mali of Islamist
militants and the U.K. and  Germany  offered more support for the
mission as Malian forces patrolled the streets of Timbuktu.  The funding came as Western allies expand military capacity
in the region. U.S. officials said they reached an agreement
yesterday with Niger, which is on Mali’s eastern border,
allowing deployment of American military personnel and possibly
drones to combat Islamist militants across the region.  A French armored unit seized Timbuktu’s airport, about 7
kilometers (4.3 miles) from the town center, while the French
military’s first operational airdrop in more than 30 years
placed paratroopers north of Timbuktu to prevent Islamist units
from escaping.  “We are in control of Timbuktu and we are making sure the
city is safe and secure for all,”  Mali  military spokesman
Colonel Diarran Kone said today by telephone.  A meeting in Addis Ababa, organized by the African Union
and attended by Malian President Dioncounda Traore and French
Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius, today received pledges of
$455.5 million for an African-led Mali force with funds coming
from the U.S., the European Union and  France .  Japan  will spend
$120 million on Mali refugees and security.  Troops, Funding  At least 8,000 African troops are needed for the mission,
along with combat helicopters, transport and reconnaissance
planes, General Soumaila Bakayoko, chairman of the chiefs of
staff in the Economic Community of West African States, told
reporters today in Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian capital. Ivory
Coast President Alassane Ouattara, the current chairman of
Ecowas, said the mission would cost $950 million.  The force will be composed of about 5,500 troops from West
African nations and more than 2,000 from  Chad , Bakayoko said.  “French troops can help, but it belongs to African troops
to ensure the bulk of the task and to ensure long-lasting
security for Mali,” Fabius told reporters in Addis Ababa.
“It’s not our intention to stay a very long time in Mali.”  The British government is ready to expand its assistance
for the French and African troops fighting in Mali, Prime
Minister David Cameron’s spokesman said today.  U.K. Trainers  Britain is ready to offer a roll-on roll-off ferry to help
transport French military vehicles to Mali, to supply as many as
40 personnel for an EU training force in the West African
country, and to offer as many as 200 trainers to be stationed in
countries elsewhere in the region, spokesman Jean-Christophe Gray told reporters in  London .  The German government will supply trucks for Mali’s army, a
field hospital and flak jackets, the German Foreign Ministry
said today in an e-mailed statement. Germany has already
deployed two Transall transport planes to assist France.  French military engineers are clearing runway obstacles
that retreating militants left at Timbuktu’s airport, French
military spokesman  Thierry Burkhard  said in a press conference
yesterday.  Fighting alongside Malian and African forces, the French on
Jan. 16 captured another northern town, Gao, about 590 miles
(950 kilometers) north of Bamako, according to France’s Defense
Ministry, giving the French and Malian forces full control of
the Niger River valley, the lifeline of northern Mali. Niger and
Chadian troops were airlifted into Gao’s airport.  Air Strikes  The last of three large northern cities the rebels still
control is Kidal. French jets bombed positions around Kidal on
Jan. 26, Burkhard said.  Some French newspapers such as Le Figaro have reported that
Kidal is under the control of Tuareg groups that are willing to
cooperate with international forces to expel jihadist groups
from northern Mali, before negotiating regional autonomy from
the Bamako-based government.  “The military part of driving the rebels out was the easy
part,” said  Jan Techau , director of the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace’s center in Brussels and a former analyst at
the German Defense Ministry and NATO Defense College.  “Now comes the hard part. How can this be made
sustainable? Can the vacuum be filled by the Malian government,
by the French or by troops from surrounding countries?” he said
in a telephone interview. “Mali’s government was just days from
being ousted by the Islamist militants and the neighbors have
been timid, so I have my doubts.”  Special Forces  French warplanes destroyed pickup trucks used by the
militants, and French special forces killed 15 militants in a
“brief but violent” firefight to seize a bridge in Gao over
the weekend, Burkhard said. Otherwise, French and Malian forces
have faced little resistance, presumably because militants fled
before their advance.  Britain has sent a  Sentinel  surveillance plane to help the
French track the militants in an area larger than France.  “After the battle in the big towns, it’s now a question of
tracking them in the desert, and for that the Sentinel is very
good,” British Ambassador to France Peter Ricketts said today
on Europe1 radio. “We know the capabilities of the French army,
it’s not over yet, which is why we want to aid France with
logistics and training.”  U.S. planes refueled French jets during their attacks over
the weekend, the French say.  Islamist Militants  France intervened in Mali on Jan. 11 after Islamist
fighters overran the town of Konna, sparking concern they might
advance to the capital, Bamako. European and U.S. leaders have
said that northern Mali had turned into a haven for Islamist
militants intent on attacking Western targets.  Several insurgent groups, including Tuareg separatists and
al-Qaeda-linked Islamists, seized northern Mali last year, after
a March coup in the capital.  Mali vies with Tanzania as  Africa ’s third-largest producer
of gold, with  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) 
among the companies operating in the country. It ranks 175th of
187 nations on the UN Human Development Index, which measures
indicators including literacy, income and gender equality.  The International Monetary Fund said yesterday it approved
a disbursement of about $18.4 million to Mali under the rapid
credit facility “to support the authorities with policy advice
and financial support to maintain macroeconomic stability and
growth during the next 12 months.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  