-- Mali’s Centuries-Old Timbuktu Scrolls May Have Survived
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   D i a k a r i d i a   D e m b e l e
-- 2013-01-29T16:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/mali-s-centuries-old-timbuktu-scrolls-may-have-survived.html
A “treasure” of ancient
manuscripts in  Mali ’s historic city Timbuktu may have survived a
fire caused by fighting between French troops and Islamist
militants, according to the institute housing the documents.  Television footage of the blaze at the  Ahmed Baba
Institute ’s new building suggests it is “still in good
condition,” Mauro Nobili, a Cape Town-based researcher at the
center, said in a phone interview today. Most of the center’s
20,000 documents, ranging from marriage certificates to
correspondence between 13th century rulers, are safe as they
were not stored in the building, he said.  “Of course we are worried,” Nobili said. “The amount of
the material and its value is amazing. But from what we can
tell, the manuscripts have not been touched.”  Timbuktu Mayor Halle Ousmane Cisse, speaking yesterday in
Mali’s capital, Bamako, said Islamist fighters had destroyed the
centuries-old manuscripts before fleeing a French assault.
French, Malian and African forces are battling insurgents in the
West African nation’s desert north, which Western governments
say may become a haven for Islamist militants.  Malian forces control Timbuktu, while French forces
surround the city, French military spokesman  Thierry Burkhard 
said yesterday.  Timbuktu’s wealth of manuscripts, its three ancient mosques
and 16 mausoleums dating back to the 15th century led to the
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
designating the oasis town on the banks of the Niger river as a
 World Heritage Site  in 1990.  Arabic Script  The scrolls, written in Arabic and in African languages
using Arabic script, helped dispel the “myth” of a purely oral
African history, Nobili said.  “It’s an important slice of documentation on West African
history, spanning from religious and social matters, to things
like history, astronomy, mathematics and geography,” he said.  The documents destroyed in the fire were being restored at
the time and probably number about 100, Nobili said. While
electronic copies were made of some of them, much of that data
was stored on site, he said.  Islamist group Ansar ud-Din in July destroyed the tombs of
saints and imposed Sharia law after seizing the city. They
didn’t harm the manuscripts because many of them documented the
area’s Islamic history, Nobili said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Diakaridia Dembele in Johannesburg at 
 ddembele@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  