-- Amazon French Rival Vente-Privee Buys Theater in Arts Push
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-01-29T16:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/amazon-french-rival-vente-privee-buys-paris-theater-in-arts-push.html
Vente-Privee.com, the Web retailer
that gets more daily visits than  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  in France,
bought a  122-year-old theater  in Paris as part of a plan to fill
empty seats by selling tickets at discounted prices.  The push into theaters is founder Jacques-Antoine Granjon’s
latest move, after branching out into wine exports and travel.
The entrepreneur, who plans to co-produce music and sell albums,
is betting markdowns on tickets for concerts and plays will lure
consumers even as they cut spending amid austerity measures.  “We already have the traffic, we want to invent a new way
of selling the arts,” Granjon said on stage at the Theatre de
Paris, acquired for about 7 million euros ($9.43 million),
according to the entrepreneur. “Artists are also brands.”  Vente-Privee, which sells branded goods at discounted
prices in eight European countries and in the U.S., gets 1.3
million daily visits in  France , according to the latest estimate
by e-commerce association  Fevad . Amazon has 1.2 million.  Sales at Granjon’s company rose to 1.3 billion euros last
year from 1.1 billion euros in 2011, as consumers bought more
products ranging from Huggies diapers to Armani handbags. France
generated 80 percent of revenue at the La Plaine Saint Denis,
France-based company, giving it about 3 percent of the market.
The aim is for  Europe  excluding France to account for about half
of sales in three years, Granjon said.  U.S. Sales  Sales in the U.S., which Vente-Privee entered in November
2011 through a joint venture with credit card company  American
Express Co. (AXP) , reached $25 million last year. The unit, based in
 Manhattan , has a target to be profitable by 2015, while Vente-
Privee has been profitable since 2004, Granjon said.  “There’s great potential, but it will take time,” Granjon
said of the U.S.  Vente-Privee, whose competitors include Gilt Groupe Inc.
and  Rue La La , has 600,000 members in the U.S., compared with
about 18 million in Europe.  Vente-Privee doesn’t plan to sell shares in an initial
public offering as it has 200 million euros of cash to finance
investment, Granjon said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  