-- AMP Buys Bank Bonds as Macquarie Hunts Yield: Australia Credit
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-01-29T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/amp-buys-bank-bonds-as-macquarie-hunts-yield-australia-credit.html
AMP Capital Investors Ltd.,
Macquarie Funds Group and  BT Investment Management Ltd. (BTT)  are
betting on the bonds of Australia’s banks in 2013 after leading
returns among the nation’s debt managers in the fourth quarter.  AMP Capital Corporate Bond Fund (AMPACBD)  gained 2.3 percent in the
three months to Dec. 31, followed by Macquarie Core Plus
Australian Fixed Interest Fund’s 1.8 percent and BT Enhanced
Credit’s 1.5 percent, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  The 0.7
percent average return for 22 portfolios tracked beat the 0.2
percent for the nation’s broad market bond index, the data show.  The investors all favor Australian financial notes that are 
beating government bonds for an eighth month as central banks 
from  Europe  to the U.S. pour unprecedented amounts of cash into 
their economies, spurring funds to buy higher-yielding assets. 
AMP and Macquarie are also buying residential mortgage-backed 
securities as property prices recover after the central bank cut 
its benchmark lending rate to a half-century low of 3 percent.  “Globally and in  Australia , we’ve seen good demand for
income from corporate bonds,” said Jeff Brunton, who oversees 
AMP’s top-ranked A$1.8 billion bond fund as head of credit.
“When markets do get the inevitable jitters, corporate debt
buyers will be well-supported.”  Brunton favors securities issued by Australian and U.S. 
financial firms and domestic RMBS.  A second Macquarie offering and Perennial Australian Bond
Fund rounded out the top five in the Morningstar rankings, as
they benefited last quarter from the best returns for corporate
paper relative to sovereign debt since June 2009.  ECB Actions  The bonds of banks, states and top-rated overseas borrowers
rose last year as the  European Central Bank  pledged to buy
unlimited amounts of government debt to counter speculation of a
euro breakup. The  Bank of Japan  said Jan. 22 it will shift to
Federal Reserve-style open-ended asset purchases.  In Australia, the  central bank  has lowered rates six times
since Nov. 1, 2011, to spur the non-mining economy as a
commodities investment boom cools.  The extra yield investors demand to purchase Australian
corporate debt instead of government securities dropped to 149
basis points on Jan. 28, the least since January 2008, and down
from 286 a year ago, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.
It narrowed by 135 basis points last year.  Spreads Contracting  “Whilst we have a positive credit outlook, the velocity of
credit spread contraction has been slowing in January,” said
Justin Davey, who oversees about A$560 million in the BT
Enhanced Credit Fund. “The strong credit market rally in the
second half of 2012 is unlikely to be replicated in 2013.”  After benefiting from positions in financial companies and
industrial names like Wesfarmers last year, Davey continues to
favor those holdings along with debt by infrastructure firms.  The Merrill Lynch corporate bond index rose 0.5 percent
since Dec. 31 after gaining 11.5 percent in 2012 to beat global
peers for a third year.  The bonds of financial firms climbed 0.6 percent this year
and the yield they offer over sovereign securities slid to 148
basis points from 157 on Dec. 31. Industrial notes rose 0.4
percent and offered a spread of 168 basis points over  government
securities , down from 172 at the end of last year.  Chasing Yield  “The chase for yield continues,” said Joris Hillmann, who
helps oversee the equivalent of $31.4 billion as senior
portfolio manager for fixed income at Macquarie Funds Group, a
unit of the country’s largest investment bank. “Markets at the
moment are more willing to take risk on the belief that central
banks and governments will continue to provide unprecedented
levels of support.”  The rate on 10-year Australian government bonds rose 18
basis points this week to 3.50 percent yesterday in Sydney,
extending its advance from 3.27 percent on Dec. 31. The yield
touched a record low 2.698 percent on June 4. Similar-maturity
 U.S. Treasuries  were yielding 1.98 percent.  Australia’s sovereign debt is little changed in January,
after three months of declines. Their 2012 advance of 5.5
percent was the smallest return since 2010.  Hillmann is buying some state- government bonds , investment-
grade bank debt and RMBS, while holding fewer Australian-dollar
notes sold by highly-rated overseas borrowers than the
benchmarks he uses to gauge performance.  The debt of the nation’s six states and two territories --
often referred to as semi-government securities -- returned 0.2
percent in January following an 8.5 percent gain last year,
Merrill Lynch data show. An index that includes state debt and
kangaroo bonds, or Australian notes issued by overseas
borrowers, is poised for a similar gain, the indexes show.  Glenn Feben, head of fixed interest at Perennial, also
favors state debt, particularly securities issued by the
nation’s largest semi-government borrower Queensland. He doesn’t
hold any sovereign securities, judging yields are too low.  “Spreads continue to be moderately attractive,” said
Feben, who oversees about A$6.5 billion. “In what is likely to
be a reasonably stable yield environment, the value of
additional yield is important and hence we continue to run
overweight positions in,” financial and state debt, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  