-- AMR Bondholder Group Said to Favor Merger With US Airways
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-01-29T21:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/amr-bondholder-group-said-to-favor-merger-with-us-airways.html
A group of  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  bondholders
with about $1.5 billion in unsecured debt is backing a merger in
bankruptcy with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and pushing for a deal by
Feb. 15, people familiar with the matter said.  The bondholders coalesced behind the idea after reviewing
confidential data from AMR’s  American Airlines  and US Airways,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
talks are private. The promise of more cost savings and other
financial benefits from a combined carrier than a stand-alone
American helped sway the group, one of the people said.  While the ad hoc group doesn’t hold a seat on AMR’s
unsecured creditors committee, the debt holders’ support gives
 US Airways  an ally as it makes the case for a tie-up that would
create the world’s largest airline. AMR said Jan. 3 it expected
to decide in weeks to merge or stay independent.  Feb. 15 is the expiration date of non-disclosure agreements
the bondholders signed with the two airlines, one of the people
said. Besides giving the debt owners access to proprietary
information, the accords restrict them from trading in AMR or US
Airways debt, two people said.  Gerard Uzzi, an attorney at Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy
LLP in New York who represents the bondholders, declined to
comment when asked about the ad hoc group’s support of a merger.
An AMR spokesman,  Michael Trevino , also declined to comment, as
did  John McDonald , a US Airways spokesman.  Bondholder Group  Members of the ad hoc group include MatlinPatterson Capital
Management LP, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Cyrus Capital Partners LP,
Pentwater Capital Management LP and Marathon Asset Management
LP, according to a Dec. 13 court filing.  Based on that filing, the group’s holdings included more
than $880 million of unsecured AMR notes and more than $620
million in unsecured trade claims, according to Kevin Starke, an
analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  The division of equity in a combined airline and who would
run it remain unresolved in talks among the carriers and AMR
creditors, the people said. The bondholders want the ownership
of a combined airline to be settled first, with a decision to
follow on management, one person said.  AMR has urged that creditors get 80 percent of the equity
versus 20 percent for US Airways shareholders, while US Airways
favors a 70 percent to 30 percent division, another person said.
American is the third-biggest U.S. airline, while US Airways is
No. 5.  Parker, Horton  US Airways Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker has pushed
for a merger since January 2012. AMR CEO  Tom Horton  agreed to
consider merger options in restructuring after saying the
airline preferred to exit court protection and then weigh
consolidation.  Speculation that Parker would succeed has  more than tripled 
US Airways shares since the day before AMR’s Chapter 11 filing
on Nov. 28, 2011, topping the 26 percent gain for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. The stock fell 4.1 percent to $14.42 at the
close in New York as rising crude prices weighed on U.S. airline
shares.  AMR’s $460 million of 6.25 percent convertible notes due in
October 2014 have soared more than fivefold during its time in
bankruptcy. They rose 0.4 percent to 94.875 cents on the dollar
at 10:10 a.m. in  New York , according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The ad hoc group began organizing in May to gain more
leverage in AMR’s bankruptcy, and later secured access to
proprietary information as each of the carriers sought support.  The bondholders, some of which also own secured AMR debt,
told American pilots in November that their support for a stand-
alone carrier after bankruptcy would be conditioned on the
appointment of a new board. In August, the group said it was
interested in providing financing for an AMR restructuring.  US Airways has said combining the airlines could produce at
least $1.2 billion a year in savings and incremental revenue. A
merged carrier would surpass the top two by global traffic,
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)   The case is in re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  