-- Anglo Writes Down $4 Billion on Minas-Rio as Cost Climb Again
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-01-29T16:49:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/anglo-takes-4-billion-writedown-on-minas-rio-raises-spending.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL)  will write down
$4 billion from the value of its Minas-Rio iron-ore project in
 Brazil  and raise spending for a sixth time after prior blowouts
forced Chief Executive Officer  Cynthia Carroll  to quit.  Capital expenditure at Minas-Rio will reach $8.8 billion
should Anglo use $600 million it has set aside for possible cost
increases, the London-based company said today in a statement.
That compares with an original estimate of $2.6 billion in 2008.  The $5.1 billion Minas-Rio acquisition was Carroll’s most
expensive bet in the five years before she resigned on Oct. 26.  Anglo rose in  London  trading as analysts including JPMorgan
Securities Plc’s Fraser Jamieson said the cost increase was less
than expected and the writedown nearer the low end of estimates.
Anglo rose 3 percent to 1,929.5 pence by the close in London.  Costs were “lower than the market feared,” London-based
Jamieson wrote in a note to clients. “A $4 billion post-tax
writedown is also toward the lower end of expectations.”  Shareholders in mining companies such as Anglo, which lost
almost half its value in the past two years, have fallen victim
to a rush of acquisitions as commodity prices rallied in 2008
and 2011, and then asset prices slumped.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  CEO Tom Albanese quit Jan. 17 after unveiling $14 billion of writedowns,
partly after its $38 billion purchase of Alcan Inc. in 2007.  Cost Inflation  Anglo today said spending rose because of additional land
and license costs, inflation in the  construction industry  and
delays in shipping the first ore until the end of 2014. Its main
challenges are access to land to build a pipeline to carry ore,
and regulations, Carroll said today on a conference call.  Three licensing injunctions against Anglo have been lifted
and the company will begin output at the end of 2014, she said.  “We continue to be confident of the medium and long term
attractiveness and strategic positioning of Minas-Rio and we
remain committed to the project,” said Carroll, who will be
replaced by  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (AU)  CEO Mark Cutifani in April.  Jamieson, who said Anglo’s writedown would amount to about
$5 billion on a pretax basis compared with JPMorgan’s estimate
of about $6 billion, expects the figure to increase further.  “The market will still take a cautious view on the
deliverability of the project to the latest schedule,” he said.  Success depends on land access being resolved by the end of
March, mine “pre-stripping” starting in April, completion of a
tailings dam by the end of May, securing operating licences in
2014, and no further injunctions against the project, he said.  Carroll Criticized  Carroll was criticized for overpaying for Minas-Rio, bought
in 2008 as commodities neared their peak, after repeated time
and budget overruns. Anglo last raised its expenses estimate for
the development in November, to $8 billion from $5.8 billion.  Anglo paid companies controlled by Brazilian billionaire
 Eike Batista  $5.1 billion in two transactions in 2007 and 2008
for the mine. The impairment charge will be recorded as of Dec.
31, 2012, on a post-tax basis, Anglo said in today’s statement.  The mine is forecast to generate $2.5 billion of earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization with 26.5
million metric tons of output, given a price of $120 a ton, or
about $3 billion at a price of $150 a ton, Carroll said.  Anglo initially planned to spend $2.6 billion completing
the open-pit mine, an ore-processing plant, the terminal and a
330-mile (525-kilometer) pipeline to carry slurry to the coast.  The company has said the project, which spans the eastern
Brazilian states of  Minas Gerais  and  Rio de Janeiro , would boost
its total iron-ore production by at least 55 percent.  Anglo’s fourth-quarter iron-ore output declined because of
strikes in  South Africa , it said Jan. 25. Output at its  Kumba
Iron Ore (KIO)  unit dropped by 19 percent to 9 million tons, mainly
because of a walkout at the company’s Sishen mine. Platinum
output also slid, while coal and copper production expanded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  