-- Mantel Makes History With $47,000 Costa Book Award
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2013-01-30T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/mantel-s-bodies-wins-47-000-costa-prize-after-taking-booker.html
Hilary Mantel has won the Costa Book
of the Year award for “Bring Up the Bodies,” the first time an
author has received that prize and the Man  Booker Prize  for the
same novel. She accepted the honor, which comes with a check for
30,000 pounds ($47,250), during a champagne reception at London
restaurant Quaglino’s.  “I’m not going to apologize but I am going to say thank
you,” Mantel said. “I’m not sorry, I am happy, and I shall
make it my business to write more books which will be worth
prizes.”  “We couldn’t allow the number of times it’s already been
lauded to affect our decision,” said Jenni Murray, the chairman
of the judging panel. “It was quite simply the best book.”  The decision by the nine judges was unanimous.  “Bring Up the Bodies” (Fourth Estate/Holt) is the second
installment in Mantel’s projected trilogy dramatizing the rise
and fall of Tudor statesman and fixer-in-chief Thomas Cromwell.  It’s 1535 and, thanks to Cromwell’s machinations,  Henry
VIII  is now married to  Anne Boleyn  -- yet all is far from rosy.
There is still no male heir to the throne and Anne is rumored to
have been unfaithful. When the king’s roving eye alights on a
new conquest, Cromwell must destroy the queen he helped crown.  The novel entrenches Mantel’s Cromwell as one of
literature’s indelible characters.  Stage, Screen  It has already helped her become the first U.K. author to
win the Man Booker Prize twice and the first to win for
consecutive novels. Its predecessor, “Wolf Hall,” was a
finalist in the 2009 Costa Novel Award. The  BBC  is planning a TV
series based on the books, and the Royal Shakespeare Company
will put them on stage.  “I should have known that Thomas Cromwell was bigger than
I was,” Mantel said after the ceremony. “It’s as if he’s been
revivified with a driving will to conquer all, in all media and
all languages.”  “Her prose is so poetic, it’s so beautiful,” Murray said.
“It’s so set in its time but it’s also incredibly modern. Her
analysis of the politics is so modern, and everybody found that
there were things that just stuck in their minds, that they
would think about for a very long time. I have no doubt that I
want to go back to it. I’ve read it twice and I want to read it
again.”  Other Finalists  Mantel’s book bested four others in the contest run by
 Whitbread Plc (WTB) ’s Costa coffee-shop chain, which grants  annual
awards  for books in five categories -- novel, first novel,
biography, poetry and children’s literature. Those five then
compete to be Costa Book of the Year.  This year’s competition included husband-and-wife team
Bryan and Mary Talbot, whose graphic work “Dotter of Her
Father’s Eyes” (Cape) won the Biography Award. It intertwines
the stories of two father-daughter relationships -- those of
 James Joyce  and his daughter, Lucia, and of Mary Talbot and her
father, an expert on Joyce’s work.  The other finalists were “The Innocents” (Vintage),
Francesca Segal’s retelling of Edith Wharton’s classic “The Age
of Innocence,” which claimed the First Novel Award; Kathleen
Jamie’s Poetry Award-winning collection, “The Overhaul”
(Picador); and “Maggot Moon” (Hot Key Books), the Children’s
Book Award winner by Sally Gardner, whose dyslexia saw her
branded “unteachable” as a child.  Previously known as the Whitbreads, the prizes seek to
honor the most enjoyable books of the year by authors based in
the U.K. and Ireland. They have become a fixture of the London
literary calendar since their creation in 1971.  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on opera and
 Ryan Sutton  on dining.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at
 hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 