-- Arbat Capital Chases Global Stocks, Russia Index No Bargain
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-01-29T10:56:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/arbat-capital-chasing-global-stocks-as-russian-index-no-bargain.html
The low valuation  of  Russia ’s
biggest equities index is illusory and global stocks offer a
better investment, said Alexei Golubovich, the managing director
of Arbat Capital, which has $500 million under management.  “Our main call for the next six months is global equities
outside of Russia,”Golubovich said in an interview in Moscow
yesterday. Natural resources companies, semiconductor producers
and certain U.S retailers, including  JC Penney Co. (JCP)  and  Best Buy
Co. (BBY) , are his favorite picks.  The low price to estimated earnings ratio of Russia’s Micex
Index is skewed by the weighting of big stocks with low
valuations, such as OAO Gazprom, the natural-gas export
monopoly, and  OAO Lukoil (LKOH) , the country’s second-biggest oil
producer, Golubovich said. Russia’s benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  trades
at about 5.8 times estimated earnings, while the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index (MXEF)  has a multiple of 10.7.  Moscow-based Arbat invests about 20 percent of its funds in
Russian equities and bonds. While Gazprom trades at three times
estimated earnings and Lukoil at 4.7 times, Rosneft, Russia’s
biggest oil producer, and Sberbank, the country’s largest
lender, have multiples of 7.7 and 6.5, respectively, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Sberbank at $14 and Rosneft at $9 are expensive stocks
for us,” said Golubovich, referring to prices of the companies’
depositary receipts.  Sberbank traded down 0.3 percent at 106.68 rubles as of
2:32 p.m. in Moscow, 5.59 rubles short of a record high. Rosneft
trades at $9.05 per global depositary receipt, $1.50 above its
2006 initial public offering price.  ‘Special Situations’  Golubovich buys only Russian stocks with high dividend
yields or “special situations” equities, such as the Moscow-
traded shares of  OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT)  and  OAO TNK-BP Holding (TNBP) ’s
ordinary stock, he said.  MTS has an  estimated dividend yield  of 5.4 percent this
year, compared with 3.8 percent  projected  for the Micex Index,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  At the same time, Golubovich said he’s positioning for
changes that may allow Russia-traded shares to be freely
converted into depositary receipts. He’s bought the Moscow
shares of retailer OAO Magnit, while betting the price of their
London-traded stock will fall, a so-called short trade, he said.  Magnit’s shares in Moscow closed yesterday at 5,644 rubles
($187.33). Its depositary receipts in  London , representing 0.2
of a share, cost $45.46, giving a discount of about 20 percent
for the Moscow-traded stock.  Narrow Spread  Golubovich, who worked as director for strategic planning
at Yukos Oil Co. in 1998 to 2000, said the end of a rally in the
country’s Eurobonds has also driven him to non-Russian assets.  “The spread of Russian Eurobonds to U.S. Treasuries is
very narrow,” said Golubovich. “We don’t expect the Treasuries
to rally either.”  The yield premium of Russian government dollar Eurobonds
due in 2022 compared with U.S. Treasuries of similar maturity
fell to 92 basis points yesterday from 148 basis points on Nov.
16.  Benchmark U.S. 10-year Treasury rates advanced yesterday to
2 percent for the first time since April as Federal Reserve
policy makers begin a two-day meeting today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  