-- Harris Falls on Lower Forecast Citing U.S. Cuts: Miami Mover
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2013-01-29T17:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/harris-falls-on-lower-forecast-citing-u-s-cuts-miami-mover.html
Harris Corp. (HRS)  fell the most in six
months after the maker of military radios lowered its sales
forecast because of U.S. spending cuts.  The  Melbourne , Florida-based company  slid  as much as 4.8
percent to $46.88 for the biggest intraday drop since July 23.
The shares traded at $47.10 at 12:02 p.m. in New York. They are
down 3.8 percent so far this year.  Harris’s revenue for the fiscal year ending June 30 is
forecast to decline 2 percent to 4 percent from the prior year
“due to expected slower government spending resulting from
growing budget uncertainty,” the company said in a statement
today. The company previously anticipated sales to remain
unchanged or decline as much as 2 percent.  The company beat analysts’ expectations for the second
quarter ended Dec. 28. It announced adjusted  profit  of $1.25,
compared with the $1.19-a-share average estimate of eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Harris’s quarterly results were “solid in a very difficult
and uncertain government spending environment,” Chief Executive
Officer William Brown said in the statement.  About 70 percent of the company’s  revenue  in fiscal 2012
came from the U.S. government, according to a Securities and
Exchange Commission filing.  Automatic budget cuts known as sequestration are set to
take effect March 1 unless Congress and the White House work to
stop them. They would trim about $45 billion from defense
programs in the current fiscal year that ends Sept. 30.  The reductions would come on top of almost $500 billion in
already-planned defense cuts over a decade.  Harris’s Pentagon customers are probably “reacting and
slowing down purchasing,” Mark Jordan, a St. Louis-based
analyst at Noble Financial Capital Markets, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s impacting Harris.”  Jordan has a buy rating on the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  