-- Harvard Picked by NFL Union for $100 Million Medical Study Grant
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-01-29T16:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/harvard-picked-by-nfl-union-for-100-million-medical-study-grant.html
The  Harvard Medical School  received
a $100 million grant from the  National Football League Players
Association  to find new ways to diagnose, treat and prevent
injuries and illness related to the sport.  The 10-year initiative, called the Harvard Integrated
Program to Protect and Improve the Health of NFLPA Members, will
address both active and retired players, the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based school said in a  news release.   More than 2,000 NFL players have filed more than 80
lawsuits against the league seeking damages for head injuries
sustained on the field. The Harvard study will look beyond head
injuries, to areas such as heart function and knee ligaments.  “Our goal is to transform the health of these athletes,”
Lee Nadler, the medical school’s dean for clinical and
translational research and the program’s director, said in a
statement. “In order to extend the life expectancy and quality
of life of NFLPA members, we must understand the entire athlete,
all the associated health risks, and all of their
interactions.”  The study is aimed at improving NFL players’ health and
further understanding the sport’s risks. Harvard said it will
seek collaboration from other institutions around the country
and internationally.  Junior Seau, the former San Diego Chargers linebacker who
committed suicide in May, was suffering from the brain disease
chronic traumatic encephalopathy, which was caused by repeated
head injuries, according to a statement from the  National
Institutes of Health . Similar results were found in the
autopsies of at least two other ex-NFL players who killed
themselves, Andre Waters and Dave Duerson.  Study Groups  Harvard’s research will include clinical studies of retired
NFL players. A group of at least 1,000 retirees will be
identified, from which 100 healthy and 100 unhealthy players
will be chosen to help create what Harvard calls a “biological
profile of illness.”  In September, the NFL pledged $30 million, its largest
philanthropic gift, to the Foundation for the National
Institutes of Health to fight serious medical conditions in
athletes.  Among the innovations the study will look to create is “a
method for regrowing anterior cruciate ligament, or ACL, tissue;
advanced imaging techniques to measure and assess heart
function; and new approaches to directly treating concussion
injuries,” according to the release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  