-- Asiacell IPO Fully Booked in Biggest Mideast Sale Since 2008
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-01-29T13:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/asiacell-ipo-fully-booked-in-biggest-mideast-sale-since-2008-1-.html
Asiacell Communications PJSC’s share
sale, the  Middle East ’s biggest initial public offering since
2008, was fully subscribed before its closing date, according to
the Iraqi IPO’s organizer.  “The offering is now comfortably covered with a good mix
of retail and institutional demand from within Iraq as well as
institutional and high net worth demand from abroad,” Shwan Ibrahim Taha, chairman of Rabee Securities, said in an e-mail to
 Bloomberg News . Asiacell Chief Executive Officer Diar Ahmed
confirmed the subscription in a phone interview today.  Asiacell, majority-owned by  Qatar Telecom QSC, (QTEL)  planned to
raise 1.49 trillion dinars ($1.3 billion), the most for an IPO
in the Middle East and North Africa since  Saudi Arabian Mining
Co.’s (MAADEN)  share sale more than four years ago, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The IPO will help double the market value
of the  Iraq  Stock Exchange from $4.66 billion last year, Chief
Executive Officer Taha Ahmed Abdul-Salam al-Rubaye said earlier
this month. That compares with $9 billion for Lebanon’s gauge.  “Such big success will encourage other big entities to
follow suit and will help the Iraq Stock Exchange attract more
institutional investors into Iraq,” Asiacell’s Ahmed said.  The Sulaymaniyah-based company offered 67.5 billion shares,
or 25 percent of its share capital, in the IPO that opened Jan.
3. The offering will close as scheduled on Feb. 2 and shares are
due to start trading Feb. 3 on the Iraq Stock Exchange,
Ahmed said.  Growth Story  ‘‘Asiacell is the last growth story in the region’s telecom
arena as the mobile penetration rate in Iraq is very low
compared to peers,” Sebastien Henin, who helps oversee $90
million at The National Investor in  Abu Dhabi , said by phone.
“There’s a lot of room to grow in Iraq.”  Iraq, home to about 34 million people, has a mobile
penetration rate of about 77 percent, according to Henin. That
compares with about 200 percent in the  United Arab Emirates ,
which has a population of about 8.2 million.  Political instability in the country shouldn’t hurt
Asiacell’s growth given high demand, Henin said, referring to
bouts of violence and sectarian tension in the country after the
U.S.-led invasion that toppled  Saddam Hussein  nine years ago.
The benchmark ISX General Index fell 4.7 percent in 2012,
compared with a gain of 3.7 percent for the  Bloomberg GCC 200
Index (BGCC200)  of Persian Gulf stocks, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Wave of Listings’  Asiacell obtained a 15-year mobile telecommunications
license in 2007 and had 43 percent market share by revenue at
the end of September, with 9.9 million individual and corporate
subscribers. The share sale is the first in “a wave of
listings” that will boost activity on the stock exchange, the
bourse’s head said earlier this month.  Like Asiacell, Iraq’s two other main mobile companies --
 Zain Iraq (ZAIN) , a unit of Kuwait’s Mobile Telecommunications Co., and
Korek Telecom, part-owned by  France Telecom SA (FTE)  -- must sell 25
percent of their shares on the bourse as part of their contract.  “Asiacell will force international skeptics to reconsider
their views about the exchange and Iraqi equities, and
potentially lead to increased investment,” Geoffrey Batt,
managing director of the $44 million Euphrates Iraq Fund, said
by phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  