-- At Least Those Who Drown Won’t Starve in Gore’s Future: Review
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-01-29T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/at-least-those-who-drown-won-t-starve-in-gore-s-future-review.html
I’m feeling like a girl who went out
with the class brain, wished he would tell a joke or put his
hand on my knee, then realized as he droned on that he would
make a loving husband and responsible father and ended the
evening ready to say “I do.”  That is, I just plowed through “ The Future ,” Al Gore’s
magisterial but not always exciting analysis of where we are and
where, God help us, we may be going.  With awesome comprehensiveness, Gore addresses six areas of
rapid change: the world economy; the creation of a “global mind”
via the Internet; the international balance of power; runaway
growth in population and consumption; advances in medicine and
genetic tampering; and global warming.  Choose your catastrophe. Here’s one: Demographic shifts
will soon mean that 75 percent of human beings live close to
coastlines. Cataclysms of  climate change  (like  Hurricane Sandy )
on top of sea levels rising with the melting of the polar ice
caps could mean the inundation of millions.  At least those who drown won’t starve to death after all
the crop failures resulting from the increasing desertification
of the earth as its population simultaneously mushrooms:  “It took 200,000 years for our species to reach the 1
billion mark, yet we have added that many people in just the
first 13 years of this century. In the next 13 years, we will
add another billion, and yet another billion just 14 years after
that.”  In these pages you enter a wonk’s paradise of projections,
calculations and statistics. Usually they’re startling:  Long Lives  “More than half of the babies born in developed countries
after the year 2000 are projected to live past the age of 100.”
(Who’s going to pay for their retirement?)  Sometimes they’re amusing, in a grim way: “Between 20 and
30 percent of all divorces in the U.S. now involve  Facebook. (FB) ”  The message is mixed: Doom is nigh -- but come on, guys, we
can win this thing! Jeremiah meets Pollyanna.  Jeremiah: “The surveillance technologies now available --
including the monitoring of virtually all digital information --
have advanced to the point where much of the essential apparatus
of a police state is already in place.”  Pollyanna: “The good news is that we do have the capacity
to begin solving the climate crisis -- if we awaken to the
reality of our circumstances and decide that saving the future
of human civilization is a priority.”  Recovering Politician  Although Gore jokes that he’s a “recovering politician,”
you’d never know it from the canned tone of his prose. And yet
the passion is unmistakable. So is the knowledge. Practically
every page offers an illumination.  The analysis of American politics -- lobotomized by
television, preyed on by corporations and taken hostage by
reactionary nut jobs -- is soberingly frank.  Yet one thing this wise book proves (once again) is that
wisdom isn’t enough. Gore cites a quotation ascribed to Edmund
Burke: “The only thing necessary for evil to prevail is for good
men to do nothing.” Not one sentence in “The Future” cuts that
sharply. Wit isn’t one of the arrows in  Al Gore ’s quiver.  As I lumbered along, it was hard not to think about the
saner world we’d be living in if Gore had secured the presidency
in 2000, and equally hard to forget the reason he didn’t.  It was said at the time that a lot of Americans wouldn’t
want to have a beer with him, and as idiotic as that statement
was, it mattered. He’s earnest and kind of dull. So is his book.  Knowing how to hold a crowd is as basic to a writer’s skill
as it is to a politician’s. Without it, a visionary is just one
more alarmist shouting “The end is near!” to people who give the
guy one look and decide they don’t have time to listen.  “The Future: Six Drivers of Global Change” is published by
 Random House  in the U.S. and W.H. Allen in the U.K. (558 pages,
$30, 25 pounds). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Katya Kazakina  on art and  James S.
Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 