-- Australia Caps Longest Stock Rally Since ’03 on Rates
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-01-30T05:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/australia-caps-longest-stock-rally-since-04-on-rates.html
Australian  stocks  posted the longest
streak of daily gains in more than nine years as three cuts in
 interest rates  boosted lenders’ profit margins and signs of
recovery in  China’s economy  buoyed BHP Billiton Ltd.  The benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 (AS51)  Index rose for a 10th day, the
longest run since October 2003. Lenders from  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  to  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  accounted for the largest
proportion of the increase as home sales climbed and business
confidence grew. BHP, the world’s largest mining company, paced
gains among mining companies as  China ’s manufacturing, economic
growth and industrial production exceeded estimates. The measure
climbed 0.2 percent to 4,896.70 today.  Investors are moving into equities as the  Reserve Bank of
Australia  undertakes the most aggressive interest-rate cuts
among advanced economies, sapping the allure of bonds as yields
decline. The S&P/ASX 200’s forecast dividend yield of 4.5 is the
highest among the world’s 10 largest equity markets, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Lower interest rates contributed to strong gains in the
banking sector and the improved China outlook supported demand
for Australian resources,” Keith Poore, the Wellington-based
head of investment strategy at AMP Capital, which has about $126
billion in assets under management, said in a phone interview
yesterday. “We didn’t think there was going to be a hard
landing in China and that seems to have been the case. This year
will be more about how fast the recovery is in China.”  Interest Margins  RBA governor  Glenn Stevens  has cut the central bank’s
target cash rate four times, or  1.75 percentage  points, since
November 2011.  Australia ’s four biggest banks, controlling more
than three of every four contracts in the nation’s A$1.1
trillion ($1.2 trillion) mortgage market, have withheld about a
quarter of the cuts, according to Bloomberg data.  Commonwealth Bank (CBA) , the country’s biggest lender, closed at
a record high yesterday after increasing 4.8 percent from the
close on Jan. 15, the last time the Australian benchmark index
fell. Together with Westpac, Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group and NAB, the four largest banks account for 28 percent of
the S&P/ASX 200 index.  Business confidence  rebounded by the most in more than a
decade during December, NAB’s confidence index showed. The
survey of more than 500 companies taken Jan. 9-15 rose to 3 from
minus 9, the data show.  New home sales  rose 4.7 percent in
November, the second monthly gain, according to a Jan. 9 private
report.  “Rate cuts are starting to improve sentiment and the
housing market and credit growth is contributing to a strong
rally in financials,” Poore said.  BHP Rallies  BHP (BHP) , which got 52 percent of its operating income last
fiscal year from  iron ore , in October boosted spending plans at
its Australian ore mines by a third to more than $6 billion this
fiscal year. BHP, which advanced 1.8 percent through the past
nine days,  comprises  10 percent of the S&P/ASX 200 index.  China’s economic growth may accelerate to 8.1 percent this
year, from 7.9 percent during 2012, according to the median of
46 analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. The recovery in the
world’s second- largest economy and Australia’s biggest trading
partner has extended to manufacturing, the  Purchasing Managers ’
Index shows.  Australia’s benchmark equity index trades at 14.8 times
estimated earnings, compared with 13.6 times for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, 14.4 times for the MSCI Asia Pacific Index and
12.3 times for the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index.  Lehman Recovery  The S&P/ASX 200 gauge has rallied about 50 percent from
March 2009, when equity market bottomed after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The recovery has  lagged  behind the
U.S. S&P 500, which more than doubled in the time, and the MSCI
Asia-Pacific gauge, which gained about 85 percent.  Global stocks rallied last year as central banks from the
U.S., Europe,  Japan  and China took action to spur economic
growth. More than 50 percent of institutional investors polled
this month said equities will offer the highest returns in the
next year, the most since the quarterly survey of investors,
analysts and traders who subscribe to Bloomberg began in 2009.  Increasing sales of new Australian homes and a rebound in
business confidence come as Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s
government, trailing in opinion polls, seeks re-election later
this year. Gillard relies on the support of independent
lawmakers to retain power.  Floods, Fire  Concern is growing that claims from floods in the states of
Queensland and New South Wales may reduce earnings for insurers.
Other states are still battling wildfires after record
temperatures earlier this month.  Suncorp Group Ltd. (SUN) , which gets more than a quarter of its
premiums from Queensland, fell the most in five months
yesterday. Suncorp and  QBE Insurance Group Ltd. (QBE) , which said it
has received about 700 claims for flooding so far, were the
biggest drags on the S&P/ASX 200 during the nine-day climb.  “Australia has had its fair share of floods and fires over
the years,” said AMP’s Poore. “It’s devastating for the people
involved but it doesn’t really have a long-term impact on the
market. I’m not too concerned, from an investor’s perspective.”  The most recent streak is part of a rally that has added
about $163 billion to the  value  of Australia’s listed companies
since Nov. 16. The index closed at its highest since April 2011
yesterday, building on last year’s 15 percent advance.  Spending Response  Earnings will grow 28 percent in the current financial
year, which ends June 30, and expand 12 percent next year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Most economists  expect 
a pause at the  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s Feb. 5 meeting,
reflecting higher commodity prices and the local dollar’s slide
against seven of the Group of 10 currencies in the past year.  “More concerted actions by governments and central banks
in the past year seem to have lessened the risks to growth, and
global prospects look brighter,” said Tony Brennan, head of
Australian equity strategy at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney. “Lower
interest rates in Australia also seem to be easing the pressure
on earnings. This should continue as spending begins to respond
more, even if rates have to be lowered further.” He expects the
S&P/ASX 200 to rally 6.2 percent to 5,200 by the end of 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  