-- Australia Says Tax Gripes Turn Constitution on Its Head
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-01-29T04:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/australia-says-tax-gripes-turn-constitution-on-its-head.html
Claims by  Fortescue Metals Group
Ltd. (FMG)  and state governments that Australia’s mining tax is
discriminatory turns the country’s Constitution on its head, the
federal government said.  Fortescue, Australia’s third-biggest  iron-ore  producer,
sued in the nation’s highest court in June to nullify the
 Minerals Resource Rent Tax , and has the backing of the
Queensland and Western Australian governments. A hearing before
the High Court of Australia is scheduled to begin March 6.  “The case should be seen for what it is,” the Australian
government said in a Jan. 25 court filing in response to the
lawsuit. “The plaintiffs do not like the MRRT Act because they
may have to pay more.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Labor government implemented
the mining tax on July 1 in a bid to boost revenue and return
the  federal budget  to surplus by this year, when an election is
due. Weaker growth and a strong local currency have curbed tax
receipts, making a surplus unlikely this fiscal year, according
to Treasurer  Wayne Swan .  Under the law, iron ore and coal-mining companies pay a tax
of 22.5 percent on profits greater than A$125 million ($130
million). No tax applies for profits of less than A$75 million,
and rates are staggered for earnings in between, according to
the filing.  Australian Greens party leader  Christine Milne  said this
month that the tax has failed to raise any money so far, the
Australian Financial Review  reported .  The government has refused to provide monthly revenue
updates on the mining tax, claiming those would breach the
privacy provisions of the  tax code , according to the report.  Inviting Criticism  Gillard’s agenda has drawn criticism from mining companies,
state governments aligned with the Liberal-National opposition
and billionaire  Gina Rinehart , Asia’s richest woman.  The structure of the mining tax offsets any reduction in
state taxes, inhibiting states from offering tax breaks to
companies agreeing to finance development in remote regions,
Western Australia said in a Dec. 21 filing to the high court.  The states’ argument is a false one because the recent
practice has been to boost state royalties “to cash in on high
ore prices in global markets,” the federal government said.  States can build railways or harbors, provide trains, offer
nominal rent for land leased by companies for housing or other
infrastructure, and can even reimburse miners for the MRRT, the
federal government said.  “The means available to a state to encourage economic
development remain legion,” according to the Australian
government’s filing. To assert that there is discrimination “is
to turn the Constitution on its head,” it said.  The  case  is between Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. and The
Commonwealth of Australia. S163/2012.  High Court  of Australia
(Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  