-- Australian Business Sentiment Surges Most in More Than a Decade
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-01-29T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/australian-business-sentiment-surges-most-in-more-than-a-decade.html
Australian business confidence
rebounded by the most in more than a decade after the central
bank’s sixth interest-rate cut in 14 months and U.S. lawmakers
reached a budget deal, a private survey showed.  The  confidence index  for December rose to 3 from minus 9,
according to a National  Australia  Bank Ltd. survey released
today of more than 500 companies taken Jan. 9-15. The increase
is the biggest improvement in sentiment since October 2001. The
 business conditions  gauge, a measure of hiring, sales and
profits, improved to minus 4 from a revised minus 6.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his
board cut the benchmark rate to 3 percent last month, matching
the level reached from April-October 2009 that was the lowest
since 1960, as the economy struggles under a sustained high
currency. U.S. lawmakers approved a measure in early January
averting tax increases and spending cuts that threatened to send
the world’s biggest economy into a recession.  “It is likely that much of the change in sentiment was a
result of improvements in financial and equity markets,” NAB
Chief Economist  Alan Oster  said in the report. “Whether this
feeling of relative optimism will be sustained into the New Year
remains to be seen.”  Australia’s benchmark stock index gained 14.6 percent in
2012 and MSCI World Index rose 13.2 percent over the period.  The local dollar has risen 7.4 percent since June 1 as
central bank easing abroad encourages investors to buy the
Australian currency. The so-called Aussie’s appreciation has put
pressure on industries that compete with imports, including
manufacturing and services.  Business conditions “remain poor,” Oster said. “Of
greater concern is the weakness in forward indicators of demand
-- with poor forward orders; capacity utilization and  capital
expenditures  at depressed levels, and credit demand back to
record low levels.”  Traders are pricing in a 30 percent chance the central bank
will reduce rates by a quarter percentage point to a record-low
2.75 percent when the board meets next week, according to
 interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  