-- Austria Signs Accord With Liechtenstein to Collect Trust Taxes
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-01-29T15:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/austria-signs-accord-with-liechtenstein-to-collect-trust-taxes.html
Austria  and Liechtenstein signed an
agreement to tax Austrian deposits and trusts in the
principality while preserving their anonymity, as it taps
wealthy citizens who bypassed levies in the past.  Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter and Liechtenstein
Prime Minister Klaus Tschuetscher signed the accord in the
principality’s capital of Vaduz today, Fekter said in a
statement. Austrian funds face a one-time levy of between 15
percent and 38 percent, with a 25 percent capital-gains tax in
the future, according to the statement. Those are the same rates
Austria agreed in a pact with  Switzerland  last year.  “This agreement significantly reduces the incentives for
seeking to escape taxation,” Fekter said in the statement. The
nation expects several hundred million euros in one-time revenue
when the pact enters into force next year, she said. “It’s a
great move for Austrian taxpayers because it creates more tax
justice, and on top we get more money for our budget.”  Liechtenstein, the 160 square kilometer (62 square mile)
principality with a population of 35,000, sandwiched in the Alps
between Austria and Switzerland, has long been a destination for
wealthy Austrians seeking to lower taxes and obscure their net
worth. Austria estimates there are between 1,000 and 3,000
trusts with Austrian beneficiaries that will be subject to tax.  Austrians investing more funds in Liechtenstein trusts from
next year will have to pay a one-time tax of 5 percent to 10
percent, with a higher rate to be paid for trusts that make it
harder to identify their founder or their beneficiaries,
according to the statement.  Trust holders will also pay a 25 percent withholding tax on
 capital gains . That element of the deal that goes beyond the
April 2012 accord reached with Switzerland, which doesn’t cover
trusts.  All taxes will be levied by Liechtenstein and transferred
to Austria without identifying the individuals. Austrians can
also voluntarily disclose their funds to Austrian authorities,
pay the same one-time rate and include them in their future tax
statements.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  