-- Automatic Defense Cuts Called ‘More Likely Than Unlikely’
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-01-29T20:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/automatic-defense-cuts-called-more-likely-than-unlikely-.html
Deputy Defense Secretary  Ashton Carter  said today “it is more likely than unlikely” that
automatic defense cuts of as much as $45 billion will be
triggered March 1.  Spending reductions known as sequestration will take effect
across most of the federal government if Congress and President
 Barack Obama  fail to reach agreement by March 1 on an
alternative plan to reduce federal deficits.  “From what I hear, I have to conclude that it is more
likely than unlikely that we’ll actually have to do this,”
Carter said of the cuts in an interview today at the Pentagon.
“We are serious about being ready.”  Carter becomes the first Pentagon official to say publicly
that sequestration is likely to happen. House Budget Committee
Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, said Jan. 27 on
NBC’s “Meet The Press,” “We think the sequesters will happen
because the Democrats have opposed our efforts” to craft a
compromise.  In one indication of a spending slowdown, Pentagon
contracts slumped 23 percent in the first three weeks of
January. Defense Department awards fell to $10.1 billion in the
period compared with $13.1 billion during the same weeks in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The change may reflect the military’s unwillingness to sign
deals without a firm budget. A stopgap measure signed by Obama
authorizing U.S. spending expires on March 27.  Temporary Workers  The first visible step the Pentagon will be forced to take
by mid-February is to start dismissing all or some of its 46,000
temporary workers, Carter said.  No layoffs have begun, he said. Instead, the services and
organizations that make up the Office of Secretary Defense have
been authorized to “selectively, and as they need to, release
temporary” workers or not renew their contracts, Carter said.  “I expect, given the amount of money we need” to save by
the end of the year, “that there will be widespread use of that
authority but I would not go so far as to say every one of the
46,000” will be released, Carter said.  Defense Department managers have been directed to give
Carter a report by Feb. 8 detailing planned budget cuts,
including how many temporary workers might be released.  By mid-February, the Defense Department is also likely to
begin notifying its 800,000 civilian employees that they face
mandatory unpaid leave one day a week starting in April unless
sequestration is averted, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  