-- Bloomberg’s Final NYC Budget Limited by Revenue Disputes
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-01-29T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/mayor-bloomberg-s-final-nyc-budget-limited-by-revenue-disputes.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
will present his final budget after 11 years in office with
spending choices limited by billions of dollars tied up in
disputes over state aid, taxi revenue and labor contracts.  He may have to reduce through attrition 1,800 of the city’s
75,000 teachers, he told state lawmakers yesterday. That’s
because the city may lose about $1 billion in state and federal
aid after Bloomberg failed to agree with teachers on an
evaluation plan. Another $790 million in expected revenue from
the sale of 2,000 taxi medallions has been blocked by taxi
industry lawsuits.  The mayor today will submit to the City Council his
preliminary budget for fiscal 2014. His November update of a
four-year financial plan assumed no raises in labor contracts
that expired after 2010, including for teachers who missed two
years of 4 percent increases other unions got in 2008 through
2010. That may leave his successor with a deficit of more than
$5 billion, including back pay, according to the Independent
Budget Office, a nonpartisan publicly funded fiscal monitor.  “He has made significant strides,” the IBO said last
month in an analysis of the mayor’s handling of city finances.
Yet Bloomberg’s disputes with labor and the taxi industry create
uncertainties that “have major implications for the city’s
fiscal outlook,” it said.  Spending Cuts  Since 2007, the mayor has ordered 10 rounds of across-the-
board spending cuts amounting to more than $5 billion in
recurring savings. Those efforts and increased revenue in an
improving economy have eased Bloomberg’s task of balancing his
 $70 billion budget  in accordance with state law.  The IBO predicted Bloomberg needed “a relatively modest”
$810 million, equal to 1.6 percent of city revenue, to close the
budget gap it forecast for 2014  The prospect of lost state school aid -- and the continuing
disputes over a plan to raise revenue by adding 2,000 yellow
cabs to the existing 13,000-vehicle fleet -- probably mean there
will be battles over spending cuts the mayor will propose to
close the gap.  Council members must approve the budget before it can take
effect July 1, a task further complicated by this being a
mayoral election year.  Quinn’s Plans  Speaker Christine Quinn, 46, a Manhattan Democrat who has
said she plans to run for mayor, said yesterday she intends to
fight any proposed teacher reductions. Bloomberg, 70, an
independent who has been elected to three four-year terms, is
legally barred from seeking re-election.  “This council has a clear record of preventing layoffs and
preventing excessive attrition of front-line education staff,
and this year is going to be no different,” Quinn said
yesterday during a City Hall news briefing.  Council member Domenic Recchia, a Brooklyn Democrat and
leader of the Finance Committee, said it was imperative to get
the mayor and the teachers union back to the negotiating table.  “Most unions are just waiting for the next mayor to come
in,” Recchia said. “The big looming issue is back pay on the
expired contracts.”  The mayor has blamed the  United Federation of Teachers  for
the failure to obtain an evaluation system for the city’s
educators by insisting on a two-year expiration date for the
program. The union says the mayor torpedoed negotiations after
it had a deal with the Education Department.  Mission ‘Impossible’  “I should have used the word ‘impossible’ for a union to
agree to something that’s going to let their members be
measured,” Bloomberg told lawmakers in  Albany  yesterday as he
requested more edcuation funds.  Other school districts that agreed to expiration dates on
their evaluation programs “are committing fraud” because the
deals would lapse before a failing teacher could be removed,
Bloomberg said.  “Losing hundreds of millions in school aid due to a
failure to establish a teacher-evaluation system would be a
tragedy,” said Charles Brecher, director of research for the
 Citizens Budget Commission , a business-funded fiscal watchdog
group.  The group supports a pay freeze during the past three years
of expired contracts and opposes any back pay, or retroactive
raises, should a wage increase be negotiated in a future
contract, Brecher said by e-mail.  Giuliani’s Deficit  When Bloomberg took office in 2002, he inherited a $4.8
billion deficit in a $42.3 billion budget from former Mayor
 Rudolph Giuliani , forcing him to adopt a $1.5 billion emergency
borrowing plan to help pay operating expenses and to increase
property taxes by more than 18 percent. The experience led
Bloomberg to salt away funds when the city’s rebounding economy
produced revenue surpluses in 2005 through 2007.  “I’m determined that when I leave the city, we won’t have,
my successor, the first year in office, won’t have enormous
deficits to deal with,” Bloomberg said during a weekly radio
appearance in 2007.  As he prepares his final budget, that goal may prove to be
more elusive than it appeared when the city had the benefit of
multibillion dollar surpluses.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 