-- Azeris Vow to Restore Order as U.S., Rights Group Urge Restraint
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2013-01-29T17:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/azeris-vow-to-restore-order-as-u-s-rights-group-urge-restraint.html
Azeri authorities pledged
“decisive” steps to maintain public order after the energy-
rich former Soviet republic suffered two days of riots last week
as  Amnesty International  condemned a government crackdown.  Sixty-two people were detained after residents of the
northwestern town of Ismayilli torched a hotel and several cars
and damaged the local governor’s house, the  Interior Ministry 
and the Prosecutor General’s Office said today in an e-mailed
statement. Ten people were held custody, with 23 others
receiving short prison terms, according to the statement.  Amnesty International said it was concerned about reports
that several people arrested following the unrest have been
tortured and mistreated while in custody. The U.S. ambassador to
 Azerbaijan , Richard Morningstar,  urged  the authorities to
address what he described as people’s legitimate grievances.  “We are calling for an immediate, impartial and effective
investigation into any such complaints,” John Dalhuisen,
Amnesty International’s director for  Europe  and Central Asia,
said in a statement on the London-based watchdog’s  website .  Ismayilli is about 200 kilometers (124 miles) northwest of
the capital, Baku, near the Russian border. It’s the second time
in less than a year that Azeris rioted against local
authorities. Similar protests in the northern Quba District last
March resulted in the dismissal of the local governor.  Four people were sentenced to 13 to 15 days in prison and
25 others were fined as much as $3,200 for attending a protest
in Baku that was dispersed by riot police and plainclothes
security officers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  