-- Bangladesh Overwhelmed in Monitoring of Factories, Minister Says
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-01-30T00:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/bangladesh-overwhelmed-in-monitoring-of-factories-minister-says.html
Bangladesh ’s government lacks the
staff and the resources to oversee the country’s textile
industry, which has grown at a pace that exceeded expectations,
a government official said.  Fresh inspections are being carried out in all of the
nation’s nearly 5,000 apparel and textile factories to ensure
they have sufficient safety and fire-protection equipment,
commerce minister  Ghulam Muhammed Quader  said yesterday.  The minister’s comments came after a blaze on Jan. 26
killed seven people. It was the second major fire at a clothing
factory in two months and prompted labor groups to renew calls
for better conditions at garment-making units supplying the
world’s biggest brands. More than 100 people were killed on Nov.
24 at a plant producing clothes for companies including  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)   “The ready-made garments industry grew in Bangladesh all
of a sudden, at a very high pace.” Quader told reporters in  New
Delhi . “The industry grew out of proportion compared to our
facilities or our controlling capacities.”  Surging wages and inflation in  China , the largest apparel
supplier, have prompted global retailers to shift production to
Bangladesh. In response, an $18 billion manufacturing industry
has sprung up, marred by factories in buildings with poor
electrical wiring, an insufficient number of exits and little
fire-fighting equipment.  Safety Costs  More than 700 garment workers have died since 2005 in
Bangladesh, according to the International Labor Rights Forum, a
Washington-based advocacy group.  Labor rights activists are urging the industry to help pay
for safety upgrades at about 4,500 Bangladesh factories. Doing
so would amount to 10 cents per garment, or $3 billion over five
years, according to an analysis by the  Worker Rights Consortium ,
a Washington-based monitoring group.  Bangladesh is attractive to apparel makers because its
factories produce high-quality products at a low price, and it’s
the government’s responsibility to ensure workers are adequately
protected, Quader said. There is also more that the apparel-
makers can do to ensure better standards, he said.  “If they can allow some sort of margin for the improvement
of the working conditions and some other things, maybe that can
help us,” he said. “The branding of Bangladesh as a country
which doesn’t look after the interest of the workers or the
safety of the workers, is not acceptable to us.”  U.S. Authorities  Garments from brands belonging to  Inditex SA (ITX) , the world’s
largest clothing retailer, were found in the wreckage of the
Jan. 26 blaze, the Institute for Global Labor and  Human Rights 
 said  on its website. Inditex has stopped doing business with
Spanish supplier Wonnover and its Bangladeshi subcontractor
Centex as a precautionary measure, Inditex spokesman Jesus Echevarria said in a telephone interview.  Bangladesh is working with U.S. authorities to continue a
program that grants duty-free status to selected products
including tobacco, sports goods and kitchen utensils, Quader
said. The U.S. Generalized System of Preferences is a program
provides preferential entry for as many as 5,000 products from
127 countries, according to the U.S. Trade Representative’s
 website . The south Asian nation may be dropped from this list
for not doing enough to address working conditions, the Wall
Street Journal reported Jan. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  