-- Bank of Canada May Choose Internal Candidate as Deputy
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-01-29T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/bank-of-canada-may-choose-internal-candidate-as-deputy.html
The Bank of  Canada  may look
internally to fill a vacancy on its rate-setting panel while the
government does a broader search to replace departing Governor
Mark Carney, former employees say.  The deputy governor position left vacant by Jean Boivin’s
departure in October could be filled by Carney advisers Lawrence Schembri or David Wolf, or by Sharon Kozicki who leads the
Canadian Economic Analysis branch, said Charles St-Arnaud,
Canadian economist and foreign exchange strategist at Nomura
Securities International.  The internal candidates “have a good reputation as
economists; they are relatively well known,” St-Arnaud, who has
worked at Canada’s finance department and central bank, said by
telephone from New York.  Deputies on the six-member Governing Council that sets the
policy interest rate are chosen by the bank’s board of outside
directors. The  job posting  gave a Jan. 5 deadline for
applications and said the winner should have management
experience and “superior analytical and communications
skills,” including competence in English and French, Canada’s
official languages.  Boivin left the bank in October to become associate deputy
minister at the finance department. Carney said in November he
would leave his job June 1 to lead the Bank of England a month
later, a surprise announcement that came more than two years
before his term ended.  Broad Pool  At the same time the outside directors are selecting a new
deputy, they are also working with the government on the process
to replace Carney, a choice that must be ratified by the federal
cabinet. The directors and government are looking at a broad
pool of candidates beyond internal choices such as senior deputy
Tiff Macklem, according to a person with knowledge of the
process.  Kozicki and Donald Coletti, chief of international
analysis, would be good candidates for the deputy position,
according to David Madani, an economist at Capital Economics in
Toronto and former central bank researcher.  “They both have more than enough current analysis
experience and academic skill, and would do well in this higher-
profile deputy position,” Madani said.  Bank of Canada spokeswoman Dale Alexander said “the
process is ongoing” to find a new deputy, and declined a
Bloomberg request to speak to possible candidates.  The history of finding deputies from inside the bank is
mixed. Current members Agathe Cote and John Murray were promoted
from within, while Timothy Lane was named deputy governor six
months after coming from the International Monetary Fund.  Boivin and Wolf were both named advisers to the central
bank in April 2009, with Boivin arriving as an economist from
the HEC Montreal school while Wolf was chief strategist at
Merrill Lynch & Co. Canada.  “The pool of candidates for deputy is much wider than for
the governor,” St-Arnaud said. “What they learned from the
financial crisis is they need to have some people on the board
who have experience with financial markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  