-- Bank of Israel Announces Stanley Fischer to Step Down
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-01-29T17:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/bank-of-israel-announces-stanley-fischer-to-step-down.html
Bank of  Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer , credited by many economists for steering Israel through
the global financial crisis, said he will step down in the
middle of his second term. Bonds, stocks and the shekel fell.  Fischer, 69, told Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu today
of his plan to leave on June 30, the bank said in a statement.
No reason was given for his early departure. Zambian-born
Fischer took the helm in 2005 after earlier jobs as No. 2 at the
 International Monetary Fund  and vice-chairman at  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Replacing Fischer “is a major problem for Netanyahu as
Stan has been a confidence-inspiring figure,” said Nobel
economics laureate  Robert Solow , one of the governor’s former
teachers and colleague at the the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology. “Everyone knows with Fischer nothing stupid was
going to happen economically.”  Fischer has shifted the bank’s focus to employment and
growth alongside  price stability . That’s helped Israel’s economy
rebound from the global crisis faster than most of its peers.
Since 2009, output has expanded by 14.7 percent, compared with
10.7 percent in Australia and 3.2 percent in the U.S., according
to the  finance ministry . Israel’s main stock index has
outperformed U.S. and European benchmarks in that period, adding
more than 80 percent.  Bond Yields  Bond yields on the 2023 Mimshal Shiklit benchmark bond rose
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 4.08 percent,
the highest since Dec. 4, at the close in Tel Aviv. The
benchmark  TA-25 (TA-25)  stock index closed 0.9 percent lower at 1,186.50
and the shekel weakened 0.1 percent to 3.7293 a dollar at 7:13
p.m. in Tel Aviv.  A former economics professor at MIT, Fischer was U.S.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s thesis adviser. From
1988 to 1990, he was chief economist at the Washington-based
 World Bank . At the IMF in the 1990s, he worked to resolve
financial crises in  Mexico , Russia and Southeast Asia. From 2002
to 2005, he was vice chairman of Citigroup.  In addition to his former student Bernanke, Fischer had
close ties with other central bankers. Bank of England Governor
 Mervyn King  said in a statement he has the “highest
admiration” for Fischer and called his resignation “a loss to
the central banking community.”  Kibbutz Stay  Fischer was approached in early 2005 by then-prime minister
Ariel Sharon and Netanyahu, serving as finance minister, to
succeed  David Klein  as central bank governor even though he
wasn’t an Israeli citizen or resident.  Fischer’s connection with Israel dates back decades. He was
a member of Habonim, a Zionist youth group, along with Rhoda
Keet, his future wife, with whom he has three sons. In the early
1960s, he spent six months on a kibbutz on Israel’s
Mediterranean coastal plain, where he combined learning Hebrew
with manual labor. He conducts his official business in Hebrew
with an accent that indicates his upbringing in southern  Africa .  In 2011 Fischer put himself forward as an candidate for the
leadership of the IMF. He was disqualified for the post as he
was over the organization’s age limit of 65, and the position
went to France’s  Christine Lagarde .  Fischer’s “experience, his wisdom and his international
connections opened a door to the economies of the world and
assisted the Israeli economy in reaching many achievements,
during a period of global economic crisis,” Netanyahu said in
an e-mailed statement.  Governor Candidates  Fischer met Netanyahu at the prime minister’s office after
his announcement and thanked him for the opportunity to run the
central bank. “Our rapid economic growth in the years I was
here was based on things enacted in prior years -- the
stabilization program, reforms.”  Replacing Fischer will present another challenge for
Netanyahu as he works to form a new government following
national elections on Jan. 22, in which his Likud-Beitenu
faction won the most parliamentary seats. The prime minister had
called early elections after his coalition failed to agree on a
budget for 2013.  “The timing is problematic on the back of elections,”
said Elah Alkalay, vice president for business development at
IBI-Israel Brokerage & Investment Ltd.  Two possible candidates to replace Fischer may be Avi Ben- Bassat, former finance ministry director-general, and Zvi Eckstein, ex-Bank of Israel deputy-governor, said  Jonathan Katz ,
a Jerusalem-based economist for  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   Budget Cuts  Fischer said it was a priority for the next government to
make budget cuts in order to reduce the deficit. Israel posted a
budget deficit of 39 billion shekels ($10.43 billion) for 2012,
or 4.2 percent of gross domestic product, more than double the
government target.  The Israeli economy “is currently facing slow growth
prospects and fiscal challenges and is in need of some
structural measures that require decisive action,” said  Tevfik
Aksoy , chief economist for Central and Eastern Europe, the
 Middle East  and Africa at Morgan Stanley in London in a
statement. “The possible uncertainty regarding the future
leadership of the Bank of Israel might hinder some of the
required progress,” Aksoy said.  Fischer said in his resignation statement that one of his
primary goals he had set for himself was passing a new Bank of
Israel law in 2010 that established a monetary committee to set
interest rates, rather than relying only on the governor. Some
of Fischer’s other innovations have been aimed at making the
bank more transparent, such as publishing minutes of rates
meetings and holding quarterly sessions with economic
forecasters.  Rate Surprises  “He has reformed the  Bank of Israel ,” said Solow. The
governor had turned the bank “into an exemplary central bank
with a decent research department and voice.”  The Fischer-led Bank of Israel has surprised economists in
about a quarter of its rate decisions, more often than any other
Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development country
for which comparable data is tracked by Bloomberg. Three of four
rate cuts last year, the most recent on Dec. 24, weren’t
anticipated by the median forecast in Bloomberg surveys.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  