-- Berlusconi Public Support Rises to Highest of Campaign in Italy
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-01-29T12:27:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/berlusconi-public-support-rises-to-highest-of-campaign-in-italy.html
 Silvio Berlusconi’s public support
rose to the highest level since  Italy ’s election campaign began
last month as the former premier promised tax cuts and blasted
rivals for their ties to troubled lender  Banca Monte dei Paschi
di Siena SpA. (BMPS)   Backing for Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party, Italy’s
second-biggest political force, advanced to 20 percent in an EMG
poll conducted Jan. 24-25 and broadcast late yesterday by
television channel La7. That compares with 19 percent support in
a Jan. 17-18 EMG survey and 16 percent support in a Dec. 13-14
survey by the pollster. The margin of error was 3.1 percent.  Berlusconi, 76, has closed the gap against front-runner
Pier Luigi Bersani’s  Democratic Party  by appealing to voters
weary of tax increases and recession. The three-time premier has
laid blame on Bersani for his party’s ties to the lender, whose
former management hid details of structured finance deals from
regulators. He also faulted Prime Minister  Mario Monti  for
bailing out the bank.  In the first major poll since the Monte Paschi case
captured headlines, support for the Democratic Party, or PD,
fell by 1.1 percentage points in the week to 30.7 percent,
according to EMG. Backing for Monti’s party fell to 9.6 percent
from 10.1 percent.  Berlusconi has said he would fund tax cuts by reducing
spending. Bersani has called for reduced taxes for lower income
Italians and higher rates for top earners. Monti yesterday
announced a plan for almost 30 billion euros in tax cuts and
breaks over five years.  Public support for Berlusconi’s coalition, which includes
smaller parties including the  Northern League , was unchanged at
28 percent in the EMG poll. Backing for Bersani’s coalition
slipped 0.3 percentage points to 36.8 percent, according to EMG.
Monti’s coalition slipped 0.7 percentage point to 14.5 percent.
Italians will vote in parliamentary elections Feb. 24-25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  