-- Best Indonesia Funds Buy Retailers on Spending: Islamic Finance
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-01-29T04:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/best-indonesia-funds-buy-retailers-on-spending-islamic-finance.html
Indonesia’s best-performing Islamic
bond funds are buying sukuk of construction and retail companies
to take advantage of the government’s $300 billion development
program, after sovereign yields dropped to a record.  PT Samuel Aset Manajemen’s  SAM Sukuk Syariah Sejahtera (SASUSYS)  fund,
which posted the biggest returns at 12 percent last year, plans
to more than double corporate holdings to 50 percent of total
investments in 2013, Herbie Mohede, the fixed-income manager,
said in an interview. Borrowing costs on government Shariah-
compliant notes due 2018 declined 69 basis points in the past
three months to 5.32 percent yesterday and touched an all-time
low of 5.24 percent on Jan. 9.  President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono announced on Dec. 18 a
two-year initiative to boost growth in Southeast Asia’s biggest
economy by building roads, ports and factories. McKinsey & Co.
in New York predicts retail spending in urban areas will
increase an average 7.7 percent annually to $1.1 trillion by
2030. PT Danareksa Sekuritas and PT Indo Premier Securities, the
nation’s largest sukuk arrangers, forecast sales of the debt by
local companies will surpass the 2008 record of 2.3 trillion
rupiah ($236 million) this year.  “We have to start looking at corporate sukuk as the yields
on government notes keep falling,” said Jakarta-based Mohede,
whose company oversees 900 billion rupiah, said on Jan. 23. “We
like the demographic play; that is looking at which sectors will
be driven by the population and growing wealth, especially
consumers and construction.”  ‘Rising Interest’  PT Lautandhana Investment Management’s  Lautandhana Proteksi
Syariah I (LAUPSYI) , the second-best performer with an 11 percent advance,
also plans to raise holdings of construction and retail firms,
said President Director Irvin Patmadiwiria in a Jan. 23
interview. The fund oversees 1.6 trillion rupiah.  He is looking to buy a debut sukuk from toll-road operator
 PT Citra Marga Nusaphala Persada (CMNP)  scheduled for this quarter
because of its growth prospects, he said, declining to give
details on the fund’s current holdings due to company policy.  “This is the year of consumers and construction, the main
sectors supporting the bulk of economic growth,” said Jakarta-
based Patmadiwiria. “A bigger sukuk market would spell better
returns for us as supply is the main issue. Rising interest in
Shariah investing isn’t yet matched by increased issuance.”  Indonesian companies, including developer PT Adhi Karya and
telecommunications provider PT Indosat, sold a total of 2
trillion rupiah of notes that comply with the Koran’s ban on
interest in 2012, finance ministry data show. In Malaysia,
issuance reached a record 95.8 billion ringgit ($31 billion).  Debut Sukuk  PT Adira Dinamika Multi Finance, which provides personal
loans for cars and motorcycles, is seeking to raise 500 billion
rupiah in a debut offering in February to help boost Shariah-
compliant financing to 9 trillion rupiah this year from 6
trillion rupiah in 2012, President Director Willy Suwandi Dharma
told reporters yesterday.  PT Sumberdaya Sewatama, which leases construction equipment,
sold 200 billion rupiah of five-year Shariah-compliant bonds at
a coupon rate of 9.6 percent in November, the prospectus shows.
Biscuit-maker  PT Mayora Indah (MYOR)  issued similar-maturity sukuk in
May after offering an indicative rate of 8.25 percent, according
to the sales document. Bloomberg has no pricing for the notes
because they aren’t actively traded.  Global sukuk sales total $3.7 billion in 2013, compared
with $6.3 billion in the same period last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance reached a record $46.3
billion in 2012.  Average yields on the debt dropped four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 2.77 percent this year, the
HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index shows. The premium on
the bonds over the London interbank offered rate, or Libor,
narrowed 22 basis points to 160 basis points.  Good Quality  The notes returned 0.3 percent in 2013 after gaining 9.6
percent last year, according to the HSBC index. That compares
with the 0.4 percent decline for debt in  emerging markets 
following an 18.5 percent advance in 2012, JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global Composite Index shows.  The Bloomberg-AIBIM Bursa Malaysia Corporate Sukuk Index of
ringgit-denominated issues rebounded 0.4 percent last week to
102.5018, after dropping 0.3 percent in the previous five days.
The Southeast Asian nation is the world’s biggest market for
Shariah-compliant notes.  “Indonesian funds are still finding it difficult to buy
good-quality company sukuk,” I Made Adi Saputra, a fixed-income
analyst at PT Nusantara Capital Securities, said in an interview
from Jakarta yesterday. “Corporate notes are more attractive in
this low-yield environment, provided the funds can find papers
to invest in since demand continues to exceed supply.”  Following Trend  PT Mandiri Sekuritas, which oversees Mandiri Investa Dana
Syariah, the third-best performing fund in 2012 with a return of
8.4 percent, didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment.  The top fund, run by Mohede, posted a gain in 2012 that was
almost double the 7 percent average of 91 local peers, which
it’s beaten every year since inception in 2010, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. It held notes sold by PT Perusahaan Listrik
Negara, the state-owned power company, and palm-oil producer  PT
Salim Ivomas Pratama (SIMP)  as of November, according to a Nov. 30
statement. Consumer goods firms amounted to almost half of
corporate investment.  Islamic banking assets in Indonesia increased 36 percent to
180 trillion rupiah in 2012 as of November from a year earlier,
the latest central bank data show.  “There is plenty of money in the financial system right
now, so I expect yields in general to keep declining moderately
or at best stay near current levels,” said Mohede at Samuel
Aset. “Corporate sukuk will follow that trend eventually, which
is why we would be eager to buy while yields are still
attractive and hold them to maturity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  