-- Billionaire Abramovich Buys Historic Kabakov Collection
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2013-01-29T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/billionaire-abramovich-buys-major-collection-by-russian-kabakov.html
Billionaire  Roman Abramovich  and his
partner, Dasha Zhukova, bought a major group of works by  Ilya
Kabakov , the priciest living Russian artist.  While the amount paid for the group last year hasn’t been
disclosed, the asking price for the works ranged as high as $60
million, according to observers familiar with private art sales.  The group consists of about 40 paintings as well as
important early albums and installations. Most of the works were
made by Kabakov before he left Moscow in 1987. The artist, who
lives in  New York , was a founder of Moscow’s conceptualist-art
movement.  “It’s one of the largest Kabakov collections in the
world,” said Emilia Kabakov, the artist’s wife and collaborator
since 1989, who confirmed the sale. “It’s also the most
outstanding in terms of quality and art-historical
significance.”  The seller was U.S. collector John L. Stewart, who spent
two decades assembling the group. He didn’t return calls seeking
comment. A spokesman for Zhukova and Abramovich -- his net worth
of $14.7 billion ranks 59th on the Bloomberg Billionaire Index -
- declined to comment, citing policy concerning the details of
their private collection.  “The collection is priceless because it has many historic
works that you can’t get anywhere else,” said Natalia Kolodzei,
executive director of the U.S.-based  Kolodzei Art Foundation ,
which promotes 20th-century Russian art.  Stewart has been trying to sell the Kabakov group privately
for several years and its asking price kept changing, according
to art dealers and collectors of Russian art.  Most Expensive  “This collection was on the market for some time, priced
in the range of $30 million to $60 million,” said Sergey
Skaterschikov, the founder of Skate’s Art Market Research. “The
sale price was not disclosed however it is known that the entire
collection was purchased.”  Kabakov, 79, has held the title of  Russia ’s most expensive
living artist since 2008, when his 1982 painting “Beetle” sold
for 2.9 million pounds ($5.8 million at the time) at Phillips de
Pury & Co. in  London , now known as  Phillips .  “ John Stewart ’s collection has several masterpieces which,
were they ever to appear at auction, could have brought the same
value as ‘Beetle,’” Kolodzei said.  Fragile Albums  The pieces sold included eight albums of a series called
“The 10 Characters.” Created between 1968 and 1975, each album
is a box of loose-leaf sheets of paper with text and pencil
drawings. The albums have between 32 and 72 pages; each tells a
fable and offers reflections on an artistic movement of the 20th
century.  The original albums are rarely exhibited because of their
fragility. Two from the “The 10 Characters” group are in the
collection of Centre Pompidou in Paris.  The Stewart collection also included paintings from
Kabakov’s “Holidays” series. Ten of them were shown in the
“Ilya Kabakov: 1969-1998” exhibition at  Bard College in 2000.   In the paintings, mundane scenes of Soviet life are offset
by dozens of festive candy wrappers attached to the canvases.
One of the paintings shown at Bard, “Holidays #10” (1987),
sold at Phillips for 1.5 million pounds ($2.4 million) in 2011.  In 2007, Stewart sold 65 works from his Russian art
collection at Phillips for 3.63 million pounds. The sale didn’t
include Kabakov’s pieces.  ‘It’s Saved’  “We knew the collection was on the market and we were
concerned that it would be sold piece by piece at auction,”
said Emilia Kabakov. “Now it’s saved. It has a future as a
collection.”  Abramovich and Zhukova have been the Kabakovs’ patrons for
years. In 2008, Zhukova’s  Garage Center for Contemporary Culture 
organized the first retrospective of Ilya and Emilia Kabakov in
Moscow.  One installation from the show, “The Red Wagon,” later
entered the collection of the State Hermitage Museum in  St.
Petersburg , as a joint gift of Abramovich, Zhukova and the
Kabakovs, according to Emilia Kabakov.  Their acquisition of the Kabakov collection should have a
positive effect on the artist’s market, Skaterschikov said.  “Because the collection was on the market, the artist’s
liquidity was depressed,” he said. “What’s important is that
they are not planning to sell.”  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on  books  and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  tech .  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 