-- Blackstone Said to Plan Sale of Miami Beach Resort
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-01-30T05:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/blackstone-said-to-plan-sale-of-miami-beach-resort.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  agreed to sell
the Miami Beach Resort in Florida to Joseph Chetrit for $117
million as part of a debt restructuring in its LXR Luxury
Resorts & Hotels unit, a person with knowledge of the deal said.  Chetrit, the  New York  investor who agreed earlier this
month to buy Sony Corp.’s U.S. headquarters in Manhattan, plans
to renovate the 424-room oceanfront hotel, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the information is private.
The resort, formerly known as the Doral, once was a renowned
venue where entertainers such as  Frank Sinatra  performed.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for New York-based Blackstone, and
Kathleen Cudahy, a spokeswoman for Chetrit, declined to comment.  The Miami Beach  Resort  is part of a portfolio of luxury
hotels formed under the LXR brand after Blackstone acquired
Wyndham International Inc. in 2005. The private-equity firm
refinanced the debt in 2007 with a $1.1 billion loan that was
packaged into bonds and sold to investors, according to
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  and data compiled by Bloomberg. That loan is
with a special servicer -- a firm that negotiates with
bondholders to work out debt -- and Blackstone is selling some
of the 12 properties in the portfolio after extending the
maturity in September to 2014, the person with knowledge of the
deal said.  Cash Flow  Net  cash flow  at the properties was $55.1 million during
the 12 months ended June 30, up from $51.3 million for the year
ended Dec. 31, 2011, according to a report from Morningstar’s
Structured Credit Ratings unit. Net cash flow was $90.9 million
for the period ended Dec. 31, 2008, according to the firm.  The portfolio wasn’t operating at capacity in 2007 and part
of 2008 because many of the hotels were going through
renovations, according to the Morningstar report. Also, one
property was released as collateral in 2007, leaving 12
properties, according to the report.  Blackstone requested an extension of the loan to gain time
to increase cash flow at the hotels and for  capital markets  to
recover, Morningstar said.  “While the loan continues to cover its debt service, we
are concerned with the sharp decline in net cash flow that
hinders the loan’s prospects for refinancing,” Morningstar said
in the Jan. 9 report.  The September loan modification required the sale or
refinancing of properties totaling $447.45 million by May 9,
2014, Morningstar said. If the sale and refinance goals aren’t
met, the special servicer can seize or sell the collateral
through a court-appointed receiver, according to the research
company. The deadline for completion of the plan and full
repayment of mortgage debt is Sept. 9, 2014.  Golden Door  Blackstone sold another LXR property, the Golden Door Spa
in Escondido,  California , for $24.8 million in December. Other
resorts in the portfolio include the El Conquistador Resort in
Puerto Rico, the London  West Hollywood  in California and Casa
Marina Resort in  Key West , Florida, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  For the year ended June 30, net cash flow from the
properties was $55.1 million, down from $211.1 million at
underwriting, according to Morningstar. The debt-service
coverage ratio, or cash available to make debt payments,
increased to 6.15 from 3.65, because lower  interest rates  on the
floating-rate loan offset falling cash flows, the firm said.  In addition to the $1.1 billion Sony tower acquisition,
Chetrit’s other purchases include Manhattan’s Chelsea Hotel in
2011. His Chetrit Group also owns Chicago’s Willis Tower, North
America’s tallest building.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  