-- Bloomberg Proposes $70 Billion NYC Budget With No New Taxes
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-01-29T22:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/bloomberg-proposes-70-1-billion-nyc-budget-with-no-new-taxes.html
New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg
presented a $70.1 billion preliminary budget that contains no
new taxes and limits spending as billions of dollars remain tied
up in disputes over state aid, taxi revenue and labor contracts.  As many as 1,800 of 75,000 teaching positions may be cut
through attrition in the next two school years if the state and
federal governments withhold $1.7 billion in aid as a penalty
for the city’s failure to agree with its teachers union on an
evaluation plan, the mayor said.  The budget also assumes New York will reap $600 million
selling 2,000 taxi medallions, down from a November estimate of
$790 million. The transaction may be delayed and possibly
blocked by taxi industry lawsuits, the mayor said.  “Our growth in our expenses has roughly mirrored our
growth in tax revenues, and that’s what you would want to have
happen,” the mayor said today as he unveiled his 12th and final
preliminary spending plan at City Hall. “The more you make this
city livable and desirable, the more money’s going to come in.”  Bloomberg’s cuts to the schools, announced yesterday in a
meeting with state lawmakers, are already opposed by City
Council members, who must pass a spending plan before the July 1
start of fiscal 2014. Bloomberg, 70, who is serving his third
four-year term, is barred by law from running for re-election.
His successor will assume office Jan. 1.  ‘Preventing Layoffs’  “This council has a clear record of preventing layoffs and
preventing excessive attrition of front-line education staff,
and this year is going to be no different,” said Council
Speaker Christine Quinn, 46, a Manhattan Democrat seeking her
party’s mayoral nomination, at a City Hall news briefing
yesterday.  The preliminary budget includes about $6.5 billion in
recurring savings achieved through 12 rounds of spending cuts
since 2007, Bloomberg said.  It reduces controllable spending on agency programs by $254
million, or 1.1 percent from the current fiscal year. So-called
uncontrollable spending on fixed costs such as pensions, fringe
benefits, health care, Medicaid and debt service would rise by
$1.8 billion, or 6.8 percent, over fiscal 2013.  Bloomberg pointed to record tourism, more demand for public
schools, improvements to parks and cultural institutions as
examples of advances under his watch.  Still Balanced  “We’ve done a lot,” he said. “You can always do more,
but you can only fight so many battles at a time. We’ve gone
through Sandy, we’ve gone through Irene, we’ve gone through a
mortgage crisis, and yet with all of those things, the city’s
budget is still in balance.”  Hurricane Sandy , which struck about 14 months after Tropical
Storm Irene, caused more than $4.5 billion in expenses,
including $1.4 billion in emergency services and $3.1 billion in
property and infrastructure repairs. Those costs won’t affect
the budget because of reimbursements from the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, Bloomberg said.  The prospect of as much as $1.7 billion in lost state and
federal aid out of the city’s $20 billion education program will
go beyond the loss of teachers to include elimination of 700,000
hours of after-school programs and the loss of $67 million in
school supplies, the mayor said.  Worth It  “The suffering that we will go through is more than worth
it to finally get an evaluation deal that will let us put only
the best teachers in front of our kids,” Bloomberg said of the
funds the city stands to lose. “There is nothing, nothing, we
can do that is more important.”  Missing from the mayor’s spending plan are billions of
dollars that the next mayor may need to pay raises to city
employees, almost all of whom are working under expired
contracts. That may leave Bloomberg’s successor with a deficit
of more than $5 billion, including back pay, according to the
Independent Budget Office, a nonpartisan publicly funded fiscal
monitor.  The budget, which is balanced for 2014 in compliance with
state law, forecasts a $2.4 billion deficit for fiscal 2015. The
current budget is $70.4 billion.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 