-- Boehringer Lung Drug Wins U.S. FDA Advisory Panel Backing
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-01-29T21:42:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/boehringer-lung-drug-wins-u-s-fda-advisory-panel-backing.html
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, the
world’s biggest family-owned drugmaker, won the backing of U.S.
regulatory advisers for a drug to treat a lung disease that is
the nation’s third-leading cause of death.  Boehringer provided sufficient data to support approval of
the medicine olodaterol to treat chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease, advisers to the Food and Drug Administration voted 15-1
today. Agency staff had questioned whether the medication eased
breathing enough to offer a significant benefit to patients in a
report ahead of today’s meeting in Silver Spring,  Maryland .  Boehringer is vying with  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , Novartis AG
and other companies to develop new therapies for COPD, an
umbrella term for lung ailments that restrict air flow such as
chronic bronchitis and emphysema. Boehringer, based in
Ingelheim,  Germany , has proposed selling its drug in a soft mist
inhaler called Striverdi Respimat.  “It was a great thing they did and the best we have right
now and I believe it’s going to push us in a more comprehensive
fashion in the future,”  Bill Ameredes , a panel member and
associate professor at the University of Texas Medical Branch’s
pulmonary division in Galveston, said during the meeting.  Advisers voted 15-1 that the company provided substantial
evidence the drug works for long-term, once-daily maintenance of
COPD. They also voted by the same margin that olodaterol is safe
enough to support approval.  Tumor Growth  “A once-a-day is preferable to patients, including
myself,” Michelle Harkins, associate professor in the
University of New Mexico’s Department of Internal Medicine in
 Albuquerque , said during the meeting.  Many panel members said the company shouldn’t be able to
make claims on the label that the drug can provide a benefit in
helping patients exercise.  Boehringer also should do studies after approval to monitor
benign and malignant tumors that develop in some people taking
the drug, panel members said. Of those taking olodaterol in a
clinical trial, 14 on a 5-microgram dose developed tumors and 19
on a 10-microgram dose developed tumors, according to the FDA
staff report. Nine people on placebo developed the malignancies
as well.  An imbalance of tumors in the olodaterol groups were lung-
related, FDA staff said in its report last week.  COPD , often caused by cigarette smoking, constricts air
flow because the air sacs of the lungs are damaged or the
airways become clogged, according to the National Institutes of
Health.  Forest Labs  Boehringer also is studying a once-daily combination of
olodaterol and tiotropium. Tiotropium is the active ingredient
in Boehringer and New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Spiriva, approved
in 2004, that relaxes airway muscles and helps keep them open.  Novartis, based in  Basel , Switzerland, and Glaxo also are
researching combination products for COPD.  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  and  Almirall SA (ALM)  won FDA approval
in July for their Tudorza Pressair, a twice-daily inhaled powder
to treat bronchospasms associated with the disease. New York-
based Forest and Barcelona-based Almirall are studying a
combination involving aclidinium bromide, the active ingredient
in Tudorza.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  