-- BofA Argues AIG Can’t Sue Over Devalued Mortgage Bonds
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-01-29T22:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/bofa-argues-aig-can-t-sue-over-devalued-mortgage-bonds.html
Bank of America Corp.  lawyers asked
a federal judge to dismiss  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s
fraud claims over devalued Countrywide Financial mortgage-backed
securities it had to sell as part of the government bailout.  U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer, at a hearing today in
Los Angeles, didn’t rule on Bank of America’s request. The bank,
which acquired Countrywide in 2008, argued that AIG transferred
the right to sue over the securities when it sold them as part
of a $21 billion transaction to an entity created by the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York.  “AIG cannot pursue claims here that it long ago signed
away as part of the government bailout,” Bank of America lawyer
Richard St. John said at the hearing.  AIG, based in New York, sued  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America and Countrywide for $10 billion in damages
in 2011, alleging it was misled into believing that loans
underlying its investment were issued according to certain
underwriting guidelines that in fact had been “long
abandoned.”  The AIG claims over the Countrywide-issued securities were
transferred to Los Angeles where Pfaelzer presides over the
consolidated fraud cases by investors against what at one time
was the largest U.S. mortgage lender.  Maiden Lane  Michael Carlinsky, a lawyer for AIG, told the judge it was
“laughable” that Bank of America asked her to infer that the
2008 asset purchase agreement between AIG and Maiden Lane II,
the entity set up the New York Fed to hold the securities,
included the transfer of the right to pursue fraud claims
without explicitly stating so.  “This is not a case where you call your broker at  Charles
Schwab (SCHW)  to sell securities,” Carlinsky said. “This is a case
where you have two of the finest law firms in New York putting
together a transaction.”  The lawyer told Pfaelzer that about $1.4 billion of AIG’s
claims over Countrywide securities weren’t affected by Bank of
America’s argument because the securities underlying those
claims weren’t part of the sale to  Maiden Lane II .  Maiden Lane II was created by the New York Fed amid the
2008 financial crisis to buy about $39 billion in securities
linked to home loans from AIG. The bank purchased the securities
from AIG at less than their full par value.  Taxpayer Rescue  The vehicle was part of the taxpayer rescue that swelled to
$182.3 billion and helped save the insurer from collapse. AIG
finished repaying the bailout in December.  AIG filed a lawsuit Jan. 11 in New York state court,
seeking a ruling that it has preserved the right to bring fraud
claims against the issuers of the residential mortgage-backed
securities it sold as part of the bailout.  Pfaelzer hasn’t issued a ruling on AIG’s request to halt
the case in her court until a New York judge has ruled whether
AIG can pursue its claims.  AIG’s claims against Bank of America and Merrill Lynch,
which were part of the original suit against Bank of America,
are in federal court in New York.  The case is AIG v. Countrywide, 11-10549, U.S. District
Court, Central District of  California  (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal courthouse at
   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 