-- Boston Scientific to Cut 1,000 Jobs in Restructuring
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-01-29T21:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/boston-scientific-to-cut-1-000-jobs-in-new-restructuring-program.html
Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) , the second-
biggest maker of heart devices, plans to cut as many as 1,000
jobs in an expansion of its restructuring program that will save
an additional $100 million to $115 million a year.  Boston  Scientific said it will combine attrition and
headcount reductions in the new phase of the cost-cutting
program, first introduced in 2011. The targeted jobs equal about
4 percent of the Natick, Massachusetts-based company workforce.
Boston Scientific also posted fourth-quarter sales of $1.82
billion, beating analysts’ estimates.  The company is performing better than expected in markets
that have suffered in recent years for heart-rhythm devices and
artery stents, said analyst  Michael Weinstein  at JPMorgan Chase
& Co. in  New York . The company forecast 2013 sales of $7.05
billion to $7.35 billion, compared with $7.25 billion last year.  “Drug-eluting stent sales bounced back after a difficult
first nine months of 2012 and Boston’s non-drug-eluting
stent/cardiac rhythm management businesses turned in their best
growth quarter in more than four years,” Weinstein wrote today
in a note to investors.  Fourth-quarter earnings, excluding one-time items, of 11
cents a share met the average  estimate  of 21 analysts compiled
by Bloomberg. The device maker forecast adjusted earnings of 37
cents to 43 cents a share for 2013, according to a statement.  2013 Improvement  Results are expected to improve as 2013 progresses, with
the first quarter carrying the additional burden of two fewer
selling days than a year earlier, said Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Mahoney . Subsequent easier comparisons, the introduction
of new products and better execution will drive profit higher
the rest of the year, he said in a telephone interview.  The company also announced today a $1 billion stock
repurchase program, after buying back 18 million shares under a
2011 plan. It has purchased 12 percent of its own outstanding
shares in the past 18 months.  “We believe the stock, even with the recent run-up, is
undervalued,” Mahoney said, acknowledging the company will
reconsider the share buyback program as the stock rises. “We
still think it’s a good investment for shareholders.”  Boston Scientific  rose  3.5 percent to $7.10 at 4 p.m. New
York time, its the highest closing value since July 29, 2011.
The shares gained 20 percent in the past 12 months.  Pretax Charge  Boston Scientific plans to take a pretax charge of $140
million to $160 million related to implementing the next step of
the restructuring initiative. The entire program is expected to
reduce pretax operating expenses by $340 million to $375 million
a year by the end of 2013.  The savings will be used to pay the 2.3 percent medical
device excise tax, or $75 million a year for Boston Scientific,
that was implemented for President  Barack Obama ’s overhaul of
the health-care system. The company also plans to redirect the
savings toward investments in faster growing regions and
technologies, while ensuring the appropriate staff levels in
established areas, Mahoney said.  The company posted strong earnings and solid guidance, and
is reinvesting in growth initiatives, said Derrick Sung, an
analyst with Bernstein Research in New York, in a note to
investors. It must now focus on getting its new products to the
market and driving growth, something Boston Scientific has
struggled with in the past, he wrote.  “We clearly need to tighten down and improve our research
and development productivity,” Mahoney said. “We have a number
of near-term pipeline products we’re confident we will deliver
on. We are pleased with the momentum but definitely not
satisfied.”  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , based in  Minneapolis , is the top seller of
cardiac devices such as stents to prop open arteries and
defibrillators to shock a stopped heart back into a normal
rhythm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  