-- Bovespa Snaps Two-Day Drop as Inflation View Boosts Souza Cruz
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-01-29T20:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/bovespa-index-futures-decline-as-vale-falls-after-dividend-cut.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index snapped a two-day
decline as tobacco company Souza Cruz SA led gains among
consumer stocks amid speculation a stronger real will help curb
inflation.  Brewer  Cia. de Bebidas das Americas  jumped to a record
high. Vale SA, the world’s biggest iron-ore producer,
contributed most to the index’s advance as it said prices of the
steel-making ingredient are supported by prospects of Chinese
growth. Suzano Papel & Celulose SA,  Latin America ’s second-
largest pulp maker, fell the most on the gauge.  The Bovespa climbed 0.6 percent to 60,406.33 at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo. Forty-five stocks rose on the measure
while 23 fell. The real appreciated 0.5 percent to 1.9850 per
dollar.  “The real has gained a lot, which helps the central bank
to keep inflation from surging, at least for now,” Rogerio
Freitas, a partner at Rio de Janeiro-based hedge fund Teorica
Investimentos, said in a phone interview. “It may have a
positive impact on some stocks in the short term.”  Souza Cruz gained 2.9 percent to 32.93 reais. AmBev, as
Bebidas das Americas is also known, increased 2.1 percent to
92.57 reais. Souza Cruz gained 2.9 percent to 32.93 reais.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA ,  Brazil ’s second-
biggest steelmaker, jumped 2.6 percent to 10.62 reais, paring
this month’s slump to 17 percent. The stock’s recent selloff was
excessive given the outlook for the industry, said  Pedro Galdi ,
the chief strategist at Sao Paulo-based brokerage SLW Corretora.  “We’re seeing a correction on Usiminas,” he said in a
phone interview. “After falling so much, it started to attract
buyers.”  Vale gained 1.2 percent to 38.13 reais, the biggest jump in
four weeks.  Export Outlook  The Bovespa  earlier  tumbled as much as 0.4 percent as some
commodities producers dropped on concern the stronger real will
hurt exports.  The real strengthened beyond 2 per dollar for the first
time since July after the central bank yesterday sold $1.85
billion of foreign-exchange swap contracts at an auction. Policy
makers swung in 2012 between selling currency swaps to prevent
the real from falling too quickly and offering reverse currency
swaps to protect exporters by keeping the real from
strengthening beyond 2 per dollar.  Suzano fell 3.8 percent to 7.27 reais. Fibria Celulose SA,
the world’s largest pulp producer, declined 1 percent to 24.40
reais.  Bull Market  The Bovespa entered a  bull market  on Jan. 3 after rising 21
percent from last year’s low on June 5 as stimulus from central
banks around the world eased concern that economic growth might
miss expectations while borrowing costs at a record low in
Brazil boosted equity demand. The index has since pared its
advance to 15 percent.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge trades at 11.2 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.9 for MSCI’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 7.02 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.25 billion reais in 2012,
according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  