-- BP Wins Final Approval of Guilty Plea Over Gulf Oil Spill
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2013-01-29T22:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/bp-wins-final-approval-of-guilty-plea-over-gulf-oil-spill.html
BP Plc (BP/)  won final approval of a
$4 billion guilty plea that resolves all criminal charges
against the company related to the 2010 Deepwater Horizon  oil
spill  in the  Gulf of Mexico .  U.S. District Judge Sarah S. Vance in New Orleans concluded
today that BP Exploration & Production Inc., a unit of London-
based BP, can take responsibility for the charges tied to the
biggest offshore oil spill in U.S. history, including 11 counts
of felony seaman’s manslaughter.  The BP unit’s plea is a “reasonable disposition” of the
charges, Vance said at a court hearing. The $4 billion in fines
and penalties “appears reasonably calculated” to properly
sanction BP for “the serious consequences” of its mishandling
of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, she said.  The plea includes a record $1.26 billion criminal fine and
monitoring of the company’s future drilling operations. It
doesn’t resolve separate civil claims by the U.S. and states
bordering the gulf that allege BP violated pollution laws. Among
them is $17.6 billion in potential penalties for environmental
violations. BP also faces potential fines by affected states.  11 Fatalities  The blowout and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon off the
coast of  Louisiana  killed 11 workers and sent millions of
gallons of oil into the gulf and surrounding wetlands. The spill
prompted President  Barack Obama  to impose a moratorium on deep-
water drilling and later forced BP to agree to spend at least
$7.8 billion to settle lawsuits over the incident.  Under the terms of the plea, BP will be on probation for
five years and can pay the fines and penalties within that
period, Vance said today.  “The Deepwater Horizon explosion was a national tragedy
that resulted in the senseless deaths of 11 people and immense
environmental damage,” Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer of the  Justice Department ’s Criminal Division said in an
e-mailed statement. “ BP has received just punishment for its
crimes leading up to and following the explosion.”  Company Apology  BP officials apologized at today’s hearing for the deaths
of the workers on the rig and accepted responsibility for
wrongdoing in connection with the spill.  “BP knows there is nothing we can say to diminish their
loss, but I am here to express our apology for their loss on
behalf of the entire company,” Luke Keller, a vice president in
BP’s U.S. unit, told family members of the dead rig workers at
today’s hearing. “Our guilty plea makes clear that BP
understands and acknowledges its role in that tragedy, and we
apologize.”  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout sent almost 5 million
barrels of oil spewing into the gulf, according to a U.S.
government report. The accident sparked the filing hundreds of
lawsuits against BP and its partners, including  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ,
the Vernier, Switzerland-based owner and operator of the
drilling rig, and Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided
cementing services on the facility.  Private Claims  BP agreed in March to pay at least $7.8 billion to resolve
private plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss, property damage,
and spill- and pollution-related injuries. Thousands of
plaintiffs opted out of the accord, and their claims are
proceeding toward trials. The settlement came just days before a
scheduled trial on liability for the spill.  Injured rig workers and relatives of the men killed in the
explosion sent Vance more than a dozen letters urging her to
reject BP’s plea deal. Many victims told the judge they wanted
the company to apologize and face a more severe punishment.  Keith Jones, a Baton Rouge attorney whose son, Gordon, was
killed in the 2010 rig explosion, urged Vance to reject the plea
saying it let the  oil company  off too easily.  ‘Petty Cash’  “$4 billion is a huge amount of money to you and me. It is
not to BP,” he told the judge. “It is petty cash to BP. Their
stock went up after this plea deal was announced.” BP’s
estimated revenue for 2012 was $353.6 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Buddy Trahan, a Transocean employee who survived the blast,
told Vance he hadn’t received any compensation from BP despite
suffering severe injuries.  “The government has caught the bank robber and cut a deal
with the bank robber and left the people shot in the bank
robbery to fend for themselves,” he said.  The BP unit also pleaded guilty today to one misdemeanor
count under the  Clean Water Act , one misdemeanor count under the
 Migratory Bird Treaty Act  and one felony count of obstruction of
Congress, under terms of the agreement.  Contract Bar  The misdemeanor plea under the Clean Water Act triggered
debarment of the facility where the violation occurred, meaning
that it would be prevented from entering into new contracts or
leases with the U.S. government, BP said in statement.  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman, declined to comment beyond the statement.  The Environmental Protection Agency in November suspended
BP and its units from winning new government contracts because
of the company’s “lack of business integrity” tied to the
spill. The temporary ban doesn’t affect existing contracts.  The EPA didn’t say how long the ban would be in place.
Suspensions generally last for fewer than 18 months or until the
end of legal proceedings. BP was the U.S. Defense Department’s
biggest fuel supplier in 2011. That year it won awards valued at
about $1.35 billion, a 33 percent boost from $1.02 billion the
previous year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Largest Penalty  The criminal penalty provided for in the settlement is the
largest in U.S. history, eclipsing the $1.195 billion paid by
Pfizer Inc. for marketing fraud in 2009.  Today’s plea has no effect on criminal charges against two
BP well-site leaders accused of involuntary manslaughter,
seaman’s manslaughter and Clean Water Act violations over their
supervision of drilling operations on the rig.  Prosecutors contend the men had multiple indications that
the well wasn’t secure and “failed to maintain control” of it,
according to court filings. A third BP official was charged with
obstruction of justice for misleading lawmakers about the size
of the spill.  As part of today’s plea, BP officials admitted that a
senior executive withheld documents, provided false and
misleading information in response to the U.S. House of
Representatives’ request for flow-rate information, and
manipulated internal estimates to understate the amount of oil
flowing from the well, prosecutors said.  Different Numbers  BP officials publicly stated that 5,000 barrels of oil a
day was flowing into the gulf. Experts concluded later that the
figure was more than 60,000 barrels a day, the government said.  BP still faces as much as $17.6 billion in potential fines
for alleged Clean Water Act violations and demands by the U.S.
and gulf states for enough money to restore the region’s
coastline and waters to their condition before the spill.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  has scheduled a nonjury
trial starting Feb. 25 in his New Orleans court, where he will
apportion civil liability among BP and the other companies
involved in the disaster.  Transocean officials said earlier this month that the rig
owner agreed to pay more than $1.4 billion, including a $400
million criminal penalty, to end a federal criminal probe over
its role in the explosion and spill.  Transocean will plead guilty Feb. 14 to one misdemeanor
count of violating the Clean Water Act and agree to five years’
probation, prosecutors said in a Jan. 3 filing.  The case is U.S. v. BP Exploration, 2:12-cr-292, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in New Orleans
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at  allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 