-- Brazil’s Swap Rates Fall on Rousseff View; Real Rallies Further
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-01-29T20:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/brazil-s-swap-rates-drop-on-rousseff-view-real-stronger-than-2.html
Brazil ’s swap rates dropped the most
in a week after President Dilma Rousseff said yesterday that
economic conditions allow lower borrowing costs to support the
nation’s growth.  The real extended its rally beyond 2 per U.S. dollar a day
after the central bank intervened in the foreign-exchange market
to boost the currency and contain inflation, reducing the need
for policy makers to raise interest rates. Lower borrowing costs
will always increase investment and consumption, Rousseff said
in a speech in Brasilia to mayors.  “Rousseff’s commentary should push down swap rates,”
Alfredo Barbutti, an economist at Liquidez DTVM in Sao Paulo,
said in a phone interview.  Swap rates due in January 2015 dropped seven basis points,
or 0.07 percentage point, to 7.87 percent at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo. The real gained 0.5 percent to 1.9859 per
dollar, the strongest closing level since July 2.  The currency rallied yesterday beyond 2 per dollar for the
first time in almost seven months as the central bank sold $1.85
billion of foreign-exchange swap contracts at an auction that
surprised traders.  Policy makers may be willing to allow the real to further
appreciate to 1.98 per dollar in the short term to ease
inflation as long as the currency’s gains aren’t too fast,
Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, markets strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, said today in an e-mailed report.  “A grind would be more politically tolerable than a
collapse,” she wrote.  Currency Intervention  The central bank swung in 2012 between selling currency
swaps to prevent the real from falling too quickly and offering
reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by preventing the
real from strengthening beyond 2 per dollar.  The outlook for inflation is getting worse in the “short
term” while the recovery of domestic activity was less intense
than expected, the central bank said in minutes of its Jan.
15-16 policy meeting published last week.  The best way to curb consumer price increases is to keep
the target rate at a record low for a “sufficiently prolonged
period,” policy makers said. The board held the  target lending
rate  at 7.25 percent for a second straight meeting.  The currency intervention reduced the need for the central
bank to raise rates and control price gains, helping to push
swap rates lower today, Barbutti said.  “The rates had been rising because the central bank
recognized in the minutes of its last meeting that inflation
expectations were worsening, and the market sees the bank’s
intervention caused by quickening inflation,” he said.  Inflation Outlook  Consumer prices will rise at an annual rate of 5.67 percent
in 2013, according to the median forecast in a central bank
survey of about 100 analysts published yesterday. That compares
with a projection of 5.65 percent in the previous week.  Annual inflation has exceeded the 4.5 percent midpoint of
the central bank’s target range for 28 consecutive months. The
IPCA index of consumer prices rose 5.84 percent in December from
a year earlier after increasing 5.53 percent in the prior
period, the national statistics agency reported Jan. 10.  Economic growth slowed to 1 percent last year, the central
bank estimates, following expansion of 2.7 percent in 2011 and
7.5 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  