-- Brazil Investigators Probe Overcrowding in Nightclub Blaze
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-01-29T17:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/brazil-nightclub-fire-probe-to-focus-on-safety-code-violations.html
Brazilian police are investigating
whether faulty equipment and overcrowding may have increased the
death toll during a nightclub blaze that killed at least 231
during a weekend concert.  Two of the nightclub owners were detained and are being
questioned over eye witness accounts the club was filled beyond
capacity and that fire extinguishers failed to work, Police
Inspector Sandro Meinerz said. Two band members who have also
been detained denied their fireworks caused the fire.  “The owners are alleging that they didn’t cause the fire,
and that the musicians caused the fire,” Meinerz said from
Santa Maria, the city in  Brazil ’s far south where the incident
occurred. “The band is saying it wasn’t them, that the fire
started because of an internal problem in the club.”  The fire started in the ceiling’s sound-proofing insulation
and was “probably” caused by a flare, he said.  The club didn’t have permission to use fireworks and the
four people detained will be charged with manslaughter at least,
local District Attorney Joel Dutra said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  “They all share in the responsibility,” said Dutra, who
added that additional charges could be leveled against them and
other suspects could be taken into custody. The mother and
sister of one of the detained owners are cooperating with police
and could be charged, Meinerz said.  Video Recordings  Video recordings from inside the club that could show if it
was overcrowded can’t be found and admission tickets may have
burned, Meinerz said. The owners said the recording equipment
was ruined in the concert, he said.  More than 10,000 mourners dressed in white marched last
night through the streets of  Santa Maria , following the funerals
of many of the victims.  The tragedy, Brazil’s deadliest fire in half a century,
prompted legislators to urge stricter supervision and regulation
of fire prevention, and for cities to step up nightclub
inspections for fire safety equipment.  The president of Congress’ lower house, Marco Maia,
announced the creation of a commission to monitor the
investigation of the fire and requested an analysis of all
relevant municipal, state and federal legislation.  “Starting from there, we are going to propose the
consolidation of a single federal law,” Maia, a deputy from  Rio
Grande  do Sul state where Santa Maria is located, said on his
Twitter page.  Lessons, Duty  Videos posted on  YouTube  showed a smoke-filled scene
outside the building as firefighters and shirtless people
dragged others to the street. More than 100 people remain
hospitalized, according to local officials.  President  Dilma Rousseff  led a minute’s silence yesterday
at a gathering of mayors elected last year, and urged policy
makers to draw lessons from the event.  “In the face of that tragedy, we have the duty to ensure
that tragedy never happens again,” Rousseff said.  Ahead of next month’s Carnival celebrations, the calamity
triggered authorities to redouble efforts to monitor safety
standards. The governor of Parana state announced firemen will
begin inspecting public properties next week. Local press
reported similar responses across Brazil.  Most of the victims died from inhaling smoke as the blaze
incited a stampede toward the club’s only exit, leaving hundreds
trapped inside.  “I pulled more than 180 people out of the bathroom,” Edi
Paulo Garcia, a captain in the military brigade that led rescue
efforts, said in an interview with Globo. “They’d been trying
to escape.”  Student Celebrations  The club, known as Kiss, had all the “equipment
necessary” to fight the fire, and management is working with
authorities to investigate, the club said in statement
distributed by law firm Kummel & Kummel.  The club was hosting a party for a group of students from
the Federal University of Santa Maria who were celebrating the
end of their summer break. Among the dead were at least 101 of
its students, the university said on its website.  Some of the club’s security guards initially stopped people
from leaving the premises before paying, witnesses told local
media. Meinerz said their actions are also being investigated.  Police Investigation  The incident is the worst fire in Brazil since 1961, when
503 people died at a circus in the state of Rio de Janeiro, the
newspaper  Folha de S. Paulo   said . Brazil is seeking to improve
its safety record before it hosts the soccer  World Cup  in 2014.  In 2004, a blaze at a rock concert in  Buenos Aires  killed
193, and the nightclub owner was convicted of manslaughter. In
the U.S., fireworks led to the death of 100 people at a club in
Warwick,  Rhode Island , in 2003 when a pyrotechnics malfunction
ignited foam used as soundproofing on the club’s walls.  The Rhode Island incident brought changes to the state’s
fire code. Officials banned pyrotechnics in most venues and
local fire marshals were empowered to fine violators.
Authorities ordered that sprinklers be installed in nightclubs
and bars with a capacity of more than 100 people, and nightclub
workers were required to receive fire safety training.  Santa Maria, with more than 250,000 residents, is about 800
kilometers (500 miles) southwest of Sao Paulo city.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  