-- British Land Plans to Keep 50% Stake in Broadgate Complex
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-01-29T11:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/british-land-plans-to-keep-50-stake-in-broadgate-office-complex.html
British Land Co. (BLND) , the U.K.’s second-
largest real estate investment trust, plans to keep its 50
percent stake in the Broadgate office complex after the Sunday
Times reported that  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  may sell its holding.  “We have a strong vision of how Broadgate will develop as
a vibrant mixed-use estate in the heart of the City of  London 
and expect it to benefit from its position around one of
London’s most important transport hubs and from the completion
of Crossrail in 2018,” British Land Chief Executive Officer
Chris Grigg said today in a statement.  Blackstone, the world’s biggest property-fund manager,
agreed not to sell its Broadgate stake for three years after
buying half of the development in a 2009 deal that valued the
properties at 2.1 billion pounds ($3.3 billion). Now that the
agreement has expired, British Land will “work closely with
Blackstone through any sale process,” Grigg said in the
statement.  Blackstone “can’t just sell it to three men and a dog,”
Grigg said in a call with analysts. “There are certain
reasonable controls that both parties have and that would
include selling it to somebody who would be regarded as sensible
for all sorts of reasons.” Blackstone spokesman  Andrew Dowler 
declined to comment on the possible disposal.  British Land is planning to modernize an office building at
the complex that’s leased to UBS AG, the developer said today.
Blackstone, based in New York, and British Land are constructing
a 700,000 square-foot (65,000 square-meter) property that the
Zurich-based bank agreed to lease. The building at 100 Liverpool
Street will probably become vacant in 2016 after UBS moves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  