-- British Airways to Offer Stronger Tea for High Altitudes
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-01-29T12:45:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/british-airways-to-offer-stronger-tea-for-high-altitudes.html
British Airways (IAG)  said it plans to
introduce tea with with stronger flavor to serve aboard flights
to make up for the muting effects of high altitudes on people’s
sense of taste.  The carrier and  Associated British Foods Plc (ABF) ’s Twinings
brand cooperated on the new blends, which will be offered in all
cabin classes starting Feb. 1, the London-based airline said
today in a statement.  The tea combinations are designed to make up for a
reduction of the sense of flavor of as much as 30 percent for
passengers flying at 35,000 feet (10,700 meters), British
Airways said. The carrier estimated that it serves 35 million
cups of tea a year, and said it tested possible taste
combinations with 19 people, including customers, flight
attendants and culinary specialists.  Water’s high-altitude boiling temperature of 89 degrees
Celsius (192 degrees Fahrenheit) is “not the ideal” for
preparing black tea, which is better brewed at closer to 100
degrees, Mike Wright, a Twinings senior buyer, said in the
statement. Lower air pressure and humidity also reduce the
ability of taste buds to detect flavors, he said.  Carriers are intensifying competition, especially for
first- and business-class customers, as the European economic
slump reduces corporate travel budgets. Virgin Atlantic Airways
Ltd. is spending millions of dollars on frills including a
cheese trolley and afternoon tea, and Deutsche Lufthansa AG is
revising its flat-bed seating to offer 8 percent more space.  British Airways, the U.K. unit of International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA, is looking to upgrade its in-
flight services with enhancements such as providing staff with
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPad tablets carrying information on frequent fliers.  Passengers will be offered a blend of Assam, Kenyan and
high-grown Ceylon teas, with additional Twinings products
available in first class and Club World business cabins, British
Airways said. The combinations are also designed to taste good
with milk, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  