-- Broadcom Forecast Misses Some Estimates as Carriers Trim Orders
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-01-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/broadcom-predicts-first-quarter-sales-short-of-some-estimates.html
Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , a maker of chips
that help mobile devices connect to the Internet, predicted
first-quarter sales that may fall short of some estimates,
citing tepid demand for semiconductors used in phone networks.  Revenue will be $1.82 billion to $1.98 billion, the Irvine,
California-based company said in a statement yesterday. Analysts
on average estimated sales of $2 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales of Broadcom chips that go into mobile-phone and other
communication-network equipment fell 9 percent in the fourth
quarter from the previous period, as companies held off on new
machinery purchases. The market remains soft as carriers curtail
 capital expenditures , according to Chief Executive Officer  Scott McGregor .  “We’ll have to wait for capex to come back,” McGregor
told analysts on a conference call. “The market is more than
normally depressed at this point.”  Broadcom fell as much as 3.4 percent in extended trading
following the announcement yesterday. The stock had earlier
declined 1 percent to $33.71 at yesterday’s close in New York.  Net income in the fourth quarter fell to $251 million, or
43 cents a share, from $254 million, or 45 cents, a year
earlier, the company said.  Revenue rose 15 percent to $2.03
billion. Analysts on average  projected  a profit of 39 cents on
sales of $2.06 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Under McGregor, Broadcom is also moving into the market for
so-called baseband chips used to connect phones to 3G cellular
networks, an area dominated by  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  Broadcom has won
Samsung Electronics Co. and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  as customers for those
chips.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  