-- Bumi CEO Sees Bakries Keeping to Terms of $580 Million Offer
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-01-30T17:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/bumi-urges-shareholders-to-reject-rothschild-s-board-proposal.html
Bumi Plc, at the center of a dispute
over control involving founders  Nathaniel Rothschild  and the
 Bakries , said the Indonesian family are sticking to terms of a
proposal valued at more than $580 million to exit the group.  “The negotiations have gone well, I’m confident they will
come up with the funding,” Nick von Schirnding, chief executive
officer of Bumi, told Bloomberg Television yesterday. The
Bakries aren’t seeking to renegotiate a proposal that included a
cash offer of $278 million for shares in PT Bumi Resources, one
of two Indonesian coal investments by London-traded Bumi.  Bumi slumped 69 percent last year as Rothschild and the
Bakries intensified a fight over the coal assets, valued at $3
billion when the deal was struck in 2010. Rothschild and former
co-chairman Indra Bakrie have since quit the board and made
proposals to unwind the venture, now valued at $1.3 billion.  “The direction the current board is taking is a sensible
and achievable one,” London-based Barclays Plc analysts  David Butler  and Ian Rossouw said in a note. “It separates Bumi Plc
from any Bakrie influence.”  The Bakries’ October cash offer of 680 rupiah a share for
18.9 percent of Bumi Resources is a 9.7 percent premium to
today’s closing price in Jakarta of 620 rupiah.  Bumi yesterday told shareholders to reject Rothschild’s bid
to return to the board and oust 12 of the 14 directors at a
shareholder vote scheduled for Feb. 21. He has proposed former
Leighton Holdings CEO Wallace King as chairman of the group.  ‘Unpredictable Factors’  “Although we see significant turnaround potential for Bumi
Plc, the likelihood of this being achievable hinges on several
unpredictable factors, including successfully navigating the
Rothschild extraordinary general meeting,” Patrick Jones, an
analyst at Nomura International Plc, wrote in a report. The
ability of the Bakries to obtain financing is also an unknown
factor, he said.  The Bakrie Group has never failed in any M&A transaction
due to the non-availability of funds, it said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. Bumi dropped 1.7 percent to close at 339
pence in  London  trading.  The creation of Bumi brought together Rothschild, scion of
a centuries-old British banking dynasty, and the Bakries, a
family-owned palm oil-to-property empire started in Sumatra in
1942. Waning coal prices, board infighting and probes in London
and  Indonesia  including an investigation by Macfarlanes LLP into
alleged financial irregularities have weighed on the stock.  ‘Independent Board’  “What we need is independent management and an independent
board to run this business going forward,” Rothschild, 41, said
yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg Television from
Klosters,  Switzerland . Rothschild, advised by JPMorgan Chase &
Co., raised 707 million pounds ($1.1 billion) in the 2010
initial public offering of Vallar Plc, which later became  Bumi (BUMI) 
Plc.  Bumi said it is progressing with negotiations to sever ties
with the Bakries, who in addition to the cash component propose
exchanging their 23.8 percent of Bumi for 10 percent of Bumi
Resources, and will shortly hold a third round of talks.  “We have a solution, which this board can deliver, which
will end the infighting, which will see the removal of the
Bakries, see the removal of a troubled asset Bumi Resources,”
von Schirnding said. “I am confident we will be able to achieve
that separation. That separation can only be achieved with this
board, not a board with Nat Rothschild on it.”  More Achievable  Analysts at Liberum Capital Ltd. and Barclays said
unwinding the Bakrie deal is more achievable than Rothschild’s
plan. Von Schirnding aims to complete the separation by April
and hopes to offer assurances to shareholders on the Bakries’
financing abilities before next month’s vote, he said.  He is seeking assurances from the Bakries that they will be
able to fund the cash component of their offer and said he’ll be
enforcing the terms of the October offer. Share price movements
mean that proposal is “now very attractive to Bumi Plc
shareholders,” the company said in a presentation.  The Bakries, as a founding shareholder, will seek to
enforce a clause in the original deal giving them the right to
nominate the CEO, should Rothschild regain control, Bumi said.
This would lead to a stalemate and an ongoing dispute between
the two sides which could take “years” to resolve, von
Schirnding said.  ‘Incredibly Surprised’  Rothschild would “be the first to admit that he’s been
incredibly surprised at the way this has actually turned out,”
Andy Brough, executive director of Schroder Investment
Management in London, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television yesterday. “If they can sort it out, potentially
there is quite a lot of upside here. The value of the asset in
the ground is still there.”  Schroders Plc (SDR)  head of U.K. equities  Richard Buxton  has said
the changes in personnel Rothschild proposes would benefit Bumi,
according to the Financial Times. Rothschild’s plan also gained
the backing of Stoneycroft Ltd. yesterday. The family trust of
Monsoon Plc founder Peter Simon owns a 0.35 percent stake in the
company.  BlueCrest Capital Management LLP founder  Michael Platt  also
supports the financier’s proposal to replace the board,
Rothschild’s NR Investments Ltd. said today in a statement.
Platt owns 344,247 Bumi shares. Investor David Alliance, owner
of 350,000 shares, also backs the plan, he said in a statement.  Bumi is “very confident” shareholders will vote in favor
of the existing board, von Schirnding told reporters on a
conference call yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  