-- Caisse to Focus on ‘Less Liquid’ Assets, CEO Sabia Says
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-01-29T19:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/caisse-de-depot-to-focus-on-less-liquid-assets-sabia-says.html
Caisse de Depot et Placement du
 Quebec , Canada’s second-largest pension- fund manager , will
increase investments in assets such as real estate,
infrastructure and private equity to reduce volatility in its
returns, Chief Executive Officer  Michael Sabia  said.  “The markets are no longer a good gauge of value,” Sabia
told reporters today during a briefing in  Montreal . “Markets
are a source of volatility. We think this volatility will last
quite some time.”  The Caisse plans to add C$10 billion ($9.97 billion) to
C$12 billion in what it calls less-liquid investments in the
next two years, Sabia, 59, said. The Montreal-based fund manager
seeks to have about 30 percent of its assets in private equity,
real estate and infrastructure by the end of 2014, up from 25
percent.  “We have to find a replacement for the performance in
fixed-income that will no longer be there,” Sabia said. “We
want to stabilize the performance of the organization.”  The Caisse oversees pensions for retirees in the French-
speaking province of Quebec, with a dual mandate to maximize
returns and foster economic growth in the province. It had net
assets of C$165.7 billion as of June 30, including about 37
percent each invested in publicly traded stocks and fixed
income.  “Our objective is not to be spectacular,” said Sabia, who
has been running the Caisse since 2009. “We are a long-term
investor and what matters is the performance over three, five or
10 years.”  Alternative Assets  Canada’s pension funds have been looking to invest more in
alternative assets such as infrastructure and real estate, said
 Scott MacDonald , head of pensions, insurance and sovereign-
wealth strategy for  RBC Investor Services. (RY)   “Elite-sized plans in Canada have been investing a
disproportionate amount of their assets in real estate and
infrastructure,” MacDonald said in an interview. “Those
returns have been very high and that trend towards investing in
those asset classes will continue.”  The country’s defined benefit pensions returned a median
9.4 percent in 2012, according to a survey by RBC Investor
Services, a unit of Royal Bank of Canada.  Global Leaders  The Caisse also wants to build up a fund it started in
January to buy stakes in companies it considers global leaders.
It will add its holdings in  Nestle SA (NESN) ,  HJ Heinz Co. (HNZ)  and  Qualcomm
Inc. (QCOM)  into the fund, said Roland Lescure, chief investment
officer, also speaking at today’s event.  The fund, which will account for about 10 percent of the
fund manager’s assets, will hold onto its investments for the
long term, he said.  The shift will come as the Caisse pares investments in
traditional index investing. “In two to three years we will
have fewer traditional equity investments,” Lescure said.  The Caisse plans to also increase investments in  emerging
markets , Lescure said. Emerging economies such as India and
 Brazil  accounted for 5 percent of total assets at the end of
2011, according to the Caisse’s most recent annual report.  About C$41.2 billion of the Caisse’s assets are located in
Quebec, according to the pension-fund manager’s 2011 annual
report. The Caisse has invested in more than 530 Quebec
companies.  SNC-Lavalin  Sabia said the Caisse plans to stand behind its investment
in  SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC) , the Montreal-based company embroiled
in corruption and fraud probes in Canada and abroad.  “SNC-Lavalin is tarnished because of what happened, but
it’s a company worth building,” Sabia said. “They face some
challenges but we will be there because we’re convinced of the
potential.”  Canada’s largest engineering and construction company has
been grappling with $56 million in incorrectly booked expenses
and a former executive’s arrest in  Switzerland  amid a probe of
corruption in North Africa. Former chief executive officer
Pierre Duhaime faces fraud charges related to a Quebec hospital
contract.  “This is a time when a long-term investor like the Caisse
needs to help the company build a bridge to a different
future,” Sabia said. “If we weren’t convinced of that we would
have already exited.”  Canada  Pension Plan Investment Board is the country’s
biggest public pension manager, with net assets of C$170.1
billion as of Sept. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Josh Friedman at 
 jfriedman25@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  