-- California Lawmakers Propose Bullet Tax to Curb Gun Crime
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-01-29T21:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/california-lawmakers-propose-per-bullet-tax-to-curb-gun-violence.html
California should tax bullets to pay
for mental-health programs and to put more police in crime-
ridden areas, two Democratic state lawmakers proposed.  One bill, by Assemblyman Roger Dickinson of  Sacramento 
would impose a 5-cent tax per bullet sold to expand a program
that screens children for mental illness. A similar measure from
Oakland’s Rob Bonta would aid  law enforcement  in cities with the
highest violent-crime rates. A third would require licenses for
ammunition dealers and have them report all sales.  The bills are among nine aimed at gun violence after mass
shootings last year in Newtown,  Connecticut ; Aurora,  Colorado ;
and Oak Creek,  Wisconsin . A tax increase in California requires
a two-thirds majority vote by the legislature or a public
referendum. Democratic supermajorities control both chambers.  “It shouldn’t be so easy to buy bullets, the very thing
that makes a gun deadly,” said Assemblywoman Nancy Skinner, a
Democrat from Berkeley. “While we have numerous safeguards in
place to purchase a gun, it’s easier today to buy bullets than
to buy alcohol, cigarettes or some cold medicines.”  California  passed the nation’s first assault-weapon ban in
1989, after a gunman sprayed an elementary school in Stockton
with an AK-47, killing five children and wounding 29. A federal
ban passed in 1994 has since expired.  Weapon Ban  Another of the most deadly mass shootings in the U.S.
occurred in California in 1984, when a gunman shot and killed 21
people at a McDonald’s restaurant in  San Diego .  President  Barack Obama  has proposed reviving the U.S.
assault-weapon ban and mandating background checks for all gun
buyers. He also signed 23 executive orders, including several
designed to maximize prosecution of gun crimes and broaden
access to government data for background checks. Vice President
 Joe Biden  headed an administration review of gun policy and has
been leading the White House effort to promote the new measures.  New York state this month passed a law that tightens
restrictions on firearm sales, bars ammunition magazines that
hold more than seven bullets, closes gaps in a 2000 ban on
assault weapons and gives authorities ways to seize guns owned
by mentally ill people deemed to be a threat.  In California, Democrats also proposed strengthening the
state’s assault-weapon ban by further limiting who can get a
permit; requiring safe storage of weapons in homes where anyone
prohibited from possessing a gun lives; ending a provision that
allows possession of assault weapons bought before the ban; and
extending waiting periods to purchase a firearm.  Mental Health  California Republicans have put forward their own bills,
such as raising penalties for gun crimes and for illegally
buying, selling or possessing a firearm; state parole for those
convicted, instead of county control; boosting spending on a
database of convicts, and limiting information about concealed-
weapon permit holders that can be made public.  The Republicans also want to extend court-ordered mental-
health treatment from six months to one year and give counties
more control over some mental-health funds.  “California has some of the nation’s strongest gun laws,”
said Assemblywoman Melissa Melendez, a Lake Elsinore Republican
who is vice chairwoman of the Assembly Public Safety Committee.
“Some of the ideas that President Obama has proposed in
response to the Newtown tragedy are already the law in
California. A militant witch hunt to disarm the tens of
thousands of law-abiding gun owners will do little to prevent
future tragedies.”  Pension Divestment  The California State Teachers’ Retirement System, the
second-largest U.S. public pension, has agreed to divest its
investments in makers of weapons and high-capacity magazines
that are banned under California law.  The fund, with $155 billion of assets, acknowledged it
owned a stake in Cerberus Capital Management LP, a private-
equity firm. Cerberus, based in  New York , has said it will sell
Freedom Group Inc., the maker of the Bushmaster AR-15 rifle that
police said was the primary weapon in the Newtown shooting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  