-- Cameron’s Skepticism Is Good for the EU
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-01-29T23:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/cameron-s-skepticism-is-good-for-the-eu.html
David Cameron ’s recent  speech  on
Britain and the European Union went down pretty well with his
party at home but was coolly received across the Channel. The
U.K. prime minister called for a “new settlement” to include
repatriation of some powers ceded to the center in previous
treaties. At this, most other EU leaders rolled their eyes.  Constant moaning and foot-dragging aren’t what you want in
a partner. The trouble is, Britain has a point -- one that other
EU states should weigh carefully, not for Britain’s sake but for
their own.  Cameron’s partners need to understand that he’s sincerely
pro-European. He wants Britain to remain a member of the EU, but
he recognizes that the country can’t get on with a one-size-
fits-all EU. Britain may be uniquely truculent, and no doubt
uniquely annoying as well, but its citizens aren’t alone in
their reservations about the EU’s blithe commitment to “ever-
closer union.” If Britain wasn’t voicing these doubts, somebody
else would be.  The reaction to Cameron’s speech expressed a remarkable
degree of complacency alongside the justified irritation.
Europe’s drive to economic and political integration hasn’t
exactly been an unalloyed success.  The EU’s biggest innovation of late -- the creation of the
euro -- is a disaster for many  member states . Countries such as
Spain and  Italy  surrendered their monetary sovereignty, and with
that the ability to stimulate their economies with lower
 interest rates  and a depreciated currency. They are no longer
free to use a spell of inflation to promote employment or reduce
debt burdens.  They tied their hands in that way knowing that
complementary aspects of policy integration weren’t yet in
place. Less monetary flexibility made it vital to allow for
enhanced fiscal flexibility. They should have strengthened their
public finances so that they could safely run big budget
deficits if the need arose. They gestured in that direction but
didn’t do enough. They should have made their automatic fiscal
stabilizers more potent. They didn’t. Above all, they should
have designed a collective fiscal response, so that intra-EU
fiscal flows would help to offset asymmetric economic shocks.
They didn’t do that, either.  The subsequent crisis was both predictable and widely
predicted. Britain had the good sense to opt out of the
arrangement. Inattention to the danger in the rest of the EU was
entirely characteristic.  EU leaders have taken a perverse pride in management-by-
emergency. Half-baked plans for integration cause problems; the
problems call forth half-baked cooperative solutions; the cycle
repeats. In this way, the EU iterates toward ever-closer union,
and governments call it progress. The endpoint, whatever it may
be, is never examined let alone justified to citizens. Meanwhile
the transitional costs, like those the EU is enduring at the
moment, run out of control.  Under these circumstances, why not call for a moment of
deliberation about where the EU is headed? The discussion that
Britain wants is in everybody’s interests.  Among EU members,  Sweden  is more apt than most to
sympathize with Britain’s point of view. Yet as Bloomberg View’s
Tim Judah reported last week, Carl Bildt, Sweden’s foreign
minister, tweeted mild disapproval of Cameron’s speech:
“Flexibility sounds fine, but if you open up to a 28-speed
Europe, at the end of the day there is no Europe at all. Just a
mess.” (He said 28 and not 27 because Croatia is expected to
 join  soon.)  That’s an odd response, first because Cameron isn’t calling
for a 28-speed Europe, and second because Sweden also opted out
of the euro, just as Britain did. Ten of the EU’s present 27
members retain their own currencies. In that key respect,  Europe 
is already a two-speed enterprise. In light of experience, it’s
far from unreasonable to advocate this as an indefinite
arrangement and to explore the implications.  One such implication is that some powers already
transferred to the EU center can be brought back. That topic
shouldn’t be unmentionable. After all, the EU formally
recognizes the principle of  subsidiarity  -- which says that
decisions are best made as close to the people they affect as
possible. There’s no sensible rationale for the view that
decisions on integration and subsidiarity, once made, can never
be reversed.  Euro-area countries do need to strengthen their
arrangements for fiscal cooperation. Actually, this needn’t
require a major new surrender of national sovereignty -- use of
conditional joint euro bonds might suffice. But moves to full
political union make good sense if that’s what the citizens of
 France ,  Germany  and other core countries really want. Non-euro
countries, on the other hand, have less need of fiscal pooling
and needn’t participate if their voters don’t wish to.  If countries such as Britain and Sweden are content with
their second-tier status, why should that be a problem? The
mutual gains from this kind of associate membership are still
enormous. In a one-size-fits-all Europe, the only way for
countries that don’t want full political union to stand aside
from that venture is to block it for everybody else as well. Why
not let the core countries pursue their ambition while staying
on terms of close friendship and intimate economic cooperation
with partners that wish to remain sovereign nations?  The one-speed approach is a formula for endless friction
and recrimination. A deliberately institutionalized core-and-
periphery Europe starts by recognizing that views on this
subject differ and will continue to. That’s a threat to European
prosperity only if Europe makes it one. The point is, so long as
the subject isn’t ruled off-limits, the differences can be
accommodated. That’s better, surely, for skeptics and
integrators alike.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  ccrook5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 