-- Cameron Lands in Algeria Seeking Security Partnership
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-01-30T17:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/cameron-to-visit-algeria-in-wake-of-gas-plant-attack.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
arrived in  Algeria , seeking to step up security cooperation
following this month’s hostage crisis in the African nation and
as the battle against Islamists engulfs neighboring Mali.  Cameron was meeting President Abdelaziz Bouteflika and
Prime Minister Abdelmalek Sellal in Algiers late today, less
than two weeks after terrorists killed at least 38 foreign
workers, six of them British, at a gas complex in the southeast.
He’s stopping en route to a United Nations panel on development
in Liberia and is the first serving British prime minister to
visit Algeria since it gained independence from  France  in 1962.  The prime minister, who chairs the Group of Eight
industrialized nations this year, is trying to lead a
coordinated international response to the threat from al-Qaeda
in the Islamic Maghreb in the Sahel region, his office said. He
said last week in a speech in Davos,  Switzerland , that it was
one of his G-8 priorities.  “The In Amenas attack and the situation in Mali remind us
of the importance of partnership with countries in this
region,” Cameron told reporters en route to Algiers. He said he
wants a “strengthened security partnership and also a
partnership in other areas including trade and business and
investment.”  There was tension between the two countries over the rescue
mission by Algerian forces, which Cameron was only informed of
when he telephoned his Algerian counterpart. He said he had told
the Algerian government that he wanted to be consulted before
any action was taken.  Not Informed  “I will not hide the fact that we were disappointed not to
be informed of the assault in advance,” Cameron told lawmakers
in the House of Commons on Jan. 18. “But we have to understand
that it was about the danger they faced and they felt they had
to act.”  Western nations face a “generational struggle” against
al-Qaeda extremism in West and North Africa, Cameron said
following the attack at the In Amenas plant, in which 29
militants also died. British security officials have been
warning since at least 2010 that North Africa is a new breeding
ground for terrorism.  “The greatest threat of terrorism in this region is to the
countries in this region,” Cameron said. “The focus is very
much on working with these countries to help protect their
security and the security of British people in the region.”  ‘More Dangerous’  Jonathan Evans , the director general of Britain’s Security
Service, also known as MI5, said in a speech in June that
“whereas a few years ago 75 percent of the priority casework”
was linked to Afghanistan or  Pakistan , that figure had since
fallen to 50 percent. “Al-Qaeda affiliates in Yemen, Somalia
and the Sahel have become more dangerous as al-Qaeda in Pakistan
has declined,” he said.  The prime minister is accompanied by his national security
adviser, Kim Darroch, and his special envoy for economic
partnership with Algeria, Richard Spring, who is known by his
title, Lord Risby.  Cameron’s office said yesterday that Britain is ready to
deploy as many as 200 British military personnel to West Africa
to help train a regional intervention force for  Mali , as well as
contributing 40 people to a European Union training group.  France has deployed 2,500 soldiers and West African
countries are sending an initial 3,300 to Mali to help clear the
north of the country of Islamist forces. Western donors pledged
more than $450 million yesterday to support the African
operation at a meeting in  Addis Ababa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  