-- Carney Will Face Commons Probe on BOE Inflation Targeting
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-01-29T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/carney-will-face-commons-probe-on-boe-inflation-targeting.html
British lawmakers will call on the
Bank of England’s next governor,  Mark Carney , to explain whether
the central bank should drop its inflation target and change the
basis on which it sets  interest rates .  The Treasury Committee of the House of Commons said it will
ask Carney at a hearing on Feb. 7 whether the existing policy
framework is the right one for the U.K. after barely any
economic growth in the past five years.  “The Treasury Committee will question Carney on whether he
thinks that there may be a better monetary policy for the U.K.
than the current one,” the chairman of the cross-party panel,
 Andrew Tyrie , a member of Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
 Conservative Party , said in a statement released by his office
in London today.  Officials in the U.K. have begun debating the need for a
change in the system established in 1992, suggesting nominal
gross domestic product as a better target to give Carney and the
central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee more scope to support
growth. Data released last week showed the economy may be
heading for its first triple-dip recession on record.  The  Bank of England  targets an inflation rate of 2 percent.
Prices rose an annual 2.7 percent in December.  Escape Velocity  Carney, currently governor of the  Bank of Canada , urged
central banks in comments three days ago to secure “escape
velocity” for their economies and said there is still room for
more monetary stimulus around the world if needed. He said
policy in developed countries isn’t “maxed out” and that
central bankers can be flexible in meeting inflation goals.  While Carney didn’t specify the U.K, he told the  World
Economic Forum ’s annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland, that
central bankers “might take a little longer” to hit their
price-growth goals in economies facing budget cuts and  above-
target inflation .  Carney sparked debate last month on the future of the BOE’s
mandate when he said nominal GDP targeting could be a “more
powerful tool” to stimulate economies, though he didn’t discuss
the subject in Davos.  Chancellor the Exchequer  George Osborne  has said he wants a
debate on whether the target should change, while telling
Tyrie’s panel last year that he has “no plans to change the
framework.”  The Treasury Committee criticized the Treasury and the Bank
of England today over the way they handled the announcement that
the government would be paid the coupon on bonds held in the
central bank’s bond-buying program. It also called on Osborne to
make the annual budget the centerpiece for announcing fiscal
policy changes, rather than also setting policy in his end-of-
year statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  