-- Chains May Avoid Surcharges on Credit-Card Purchases
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-01-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/chains-may-avoid-surcharges-on-credit-card-purchases.html
U.S. retailers may shy away from
charging consumers extra to use credit cards, even though they
are free to do so under a proposed legal settlement, because of
intense competition in the industry.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  are
among chains that have said they don’t plan to place fees on
purchases made with credit cards using the  Visa Inc. (V)  and
 MasterCard Inc. (MA)  payment networks.  Surcharging became an option for merchants that use those
networks on Jan. 27 as part of a proposed lawsuit settlement
that Visa, MasterCard and some of the biggest U.S. banks reached
with retailers in July. The change will not supersede laws in 10
states, including California, Florida, New York and Texas, that
limit  the fees .  American Express Co. (AXP)  wasn’t part of the deal.  “We fully expect most retailers won’t surcharge credit
cards with the abundance of alternatives available to
consumers,” said Joe Ridout, a San Francisco-based spokesman
for Consumer Action, a nonprofit group focused on consumer
rights. Smaller, independent stores may be more willing to levy
the fees because they pay higher charges to banks for  credit
card  transactions and don’t have the bargaining power to
negotiate lower ones, Ridout said.  ‘No Benefit’  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, has no plans to
start surcharging, Randy Hargrove, a spokesman, said yesterday
in an e-mail.  “The proposed modification to the no-surcharging rule for
Visa and MasterCard provides no benefit to customers or
merchants such as Walmart,” he said.  Target, the second-largest U.S. discounter, and Macy’s, the
second-largest U.S. department-store chain, won’t institute
surcharges either, Jenna Reck and Beth Charlton, spokeswomen
respectively for the two companies, said yesterday.  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , the largest U.S. department-store
chain, has no plans to issue the fees, spokesman Chris Brathwaite said in an e-mail. J.C. Penney Co. didn’t respond to
an e-mail seeking comment.  Visa and MasterCard’s proposed settlement, which won
preliminary court approval in November, will end a seven-year
case brought by retailers alleging that the card companies
conspired with major banks to fix interchange, or swipe, fees
charged to merchants when customers pay with plastic. The
agreement provides for a temporary reduction in rates for
merchants and allows them to impose surcharges on customer
purchases.  High Fees  Kroger Co. (KR) , the largest U.S. grocery-store company, would
consider adding a surcharge to customers using credit cards with
high fees, Chief Executive Officer  David Dillon  said last year.
The settlement may bring more transparency and efficiency to the
market, he said.  Keith Dailey, a spokesman for Kroger, declined to say
whether the company will start levying surcharges and said it’s
developing a plan to drive more customers to use lower-cost
payment options.  Several large retailers, including Wal-Mart and Target, say
the settlement gives card companies too much leeway to raise
interchange rates in the future. Interchange fees average about
2 percent of the purchase value and must be paid by retailers to
the bank whenever a customer makes a purchase with a credit
card.  A hearing on final approval of the settlement is scheduled
for Sept. 12.  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  