-- Chalco Swings to ‘Substantial’ Full-Year Loss on Lower Prices
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-01-29T11:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/chalco-swings-to-substantial-full-year-loss-on-lower-prices.html
Aluminum Corp. (2600)  of China Ltd., the
nation’s biggest producer, said it swung to a full-year loss on
falling prices and higher costs for alumina, which is used to
produce the lightweight metal.  The Beijing-based company reported a “substantial” loss
in the year ended Dec. 31, compared with net income of 238
million yuan ($38.2 million) in 2011, according to a filing to
the Shanghai stock exchange, which didn’t provide 2012 numbers.
Aluminum Corp., also known as Chalco, usually announces complete
earnings in March.  Aluminum prices dropped about 7 percent last year. Limited
supply of bauxite, a raw material, led to a 4 percent increase
in costs for alumina production, Chalco said today. The producer
of aluminum, used in cars and beverage cans, in October posted a
1.08 billion  yuan  third-quarter loss, compared with a profit of
555 million yuan a year earlier.  The company will continue to lower costs by increasing self
sufficiency in mining and power generation and streamlining
purchasing, it said in the statement. Chalco’s  investments in
coal  and power projects will help improve profits, according to
the statement.  Chalco shares gained 0.5 percent today to HK$3.75 at the
close in Hong Kong. They have dropped 7.9 percent in the past
year, compared with a 15 percent increase in the benchmark Hang
Seng Index. The announcement was made after trading ended.  The company has sought to diversify into businesses such as
coal and iron ore mining to reduce its dependence on aluminum
smelting. Chalco dropped an offer to acquire Vancouver-based
 SouthGobi Resources Ltd. (SGQ) , which mines coal in Mongolia, for
C$925 million ($919 million) in September because it wasn’t able
to get regulatory approval from the neighboring nation.  Chalco’s President  Luo Jianchuan  said in a November
interview the company plans to build an alumina plant in
 Indonesia  after the country imposed limits on the exports of
some mineral ores, including bauxite, in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  