-- Chesapeake CEO Resigns After Scrutiny on Personal Loans
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l ,   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-01-30T02:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/chesapeake-ceo-resigns-after-scrutiny-on-personal-loans.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  Chief
Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  was forced to leave the
second-largest U.S. natural gas producer under pressure from his
two biggest shareholders, said a person with knowledge of the
matter.  McClendon will retire from the company he co-founded on
April 1 and will serve as CEO until his successor is appointed,
Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake said today in a statement.
Chesapeake, which lost as much as 43 percent of its market value
last year after a corporate cash crunch, rose 8.9 percent to
$20.66 at 7:27 p.m., after the close of regular trading in New
York.  The board said it has found no evidence to date of improper
conduct by the CEO.  McClendon, 53, led Chesapeake from its 1989 inception in
 Oklahoma City , amassing U.S. gas and oil fields that cover an
area half the size of  New York  state. As one of the first
explorers to embrace horizontal drilling and hydraulic
fracturing, McClendon helped usher in a revival of U.S. gas and
oil production with discoveries such as the Haynesville Shale in
 Louisiana  and Utica Shale in  Ohio .  Gas Glut  The success of the drilling methods led to a glut of North
American gas that drove prices to a 10-year low in early 2012,
causing Chesapeake to cut jobs, pledge to curtail  capital
spending  and sell more than $10 billion in oilfields and
pipelines to help close a gap between  cash flow  and drilling
expenses. The company lost $1.07 billion during the first three
quarters of last year and net debt ballooned by 56 percent
during that period to $16.1 billion.  The shareholders who pushed for McClendon’s ouster --  Carl
Icahn , the billionaire activist investor, and O. Mason Hawkins
of Southeastern Asset Management Inc. -- concluded that
McClendon’s continued leadership was weighing on the stock, said
the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
board’s discussions are private.  Icahn and Hawkins didn’t immediately respond to messages
left at their offices after normal business hours.  Icahn and Southeastern together control more than 22
percent of Chesapeake stock, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, compared with McClendon’s stake of less than 1
percent. The shareholders last year appointed four new directors
to the nine-member panel.  ‘Philosophical Differences’  McClendon was the subject of scrutiny from both the media
and regulators after revelations last year about his borrowings
to finance personal stakes in company wells. The U.S.  Justice
Department  last year also started an investigation into whether
Chesapeake colluded with a competitor to suppress prices in land
deals in 2010.  The board will release its review of McClendon’s financial
transactions on Feb. 21, when announcing earnings results.  “While I have certain philosophical differences with the
new board, I look forward to working collaboratively with the
company and the board to provide a smooth transition to new
leadership for the company,” McClendon said in the statement.  McClendon lagged U.S. energy producers such as Devon Energy
Corp. in shifting rigs from gas fields to higher-profit oil
prospects, leaving Chesapeake more vulnerable to slumping gas
prices.  “You can be the smartest guys in the room but you may be
in the wrong room,” McClendon said during a March interview in
a restaurant on the company’s Oklahoma City campus. “It’s not
enough to be the smartest guys in the room. Sometimes you have
to be hungry, sometimes you have to be lucky, and you have to be
open to change.”  Well-Investment Program  McClendon’s fall from grace began in April after media
reports about personal loans he obtained using minority stakes
in company-owned wells that he had been allowed to gather for
his private portfolio.  Chesapeake stock lost 20 percent of its value that month as
scrutiny of McClendon’s personal transactions compounded the
impact of free-falling prices on a company whose output was more
than 80 percent gas.  Under an executive perk designed to align McClendon’s
personal interests with those of the company, the CEO acquired
stakes as large as 2.5 percent in almost every well Chesapeake
drilled during the past 23 years. McClendon took out loans
backed by his well stakes to fund his portion of costs. At the
end of 2011, he owed $846 million on those loans, the company
reported on April 26.  Federal Investigations  Some of the loans came from companies that were involved in
separate financial transactions with Chesapeake. The  Internal
Revenue Service  and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
began probes.  McClendon’s departure was announced after the close of
regular trading on U.S. markets. Chesapeake rose 0.2 percent to
$18.97 at the close in New York.  Chesapeake stripped McClendon of his position as chairman
in June and named former ConocoPhillips Chairman Archie Dunham
to lead a board reconstituted at the behest of the company’s
largest investors, Icahn and Southeastern Asset Management.
Chesapeake plans to halt the well-investment program with
McClendon next year rather than the original termination date at
the end of 2015.  McClendon leaves to his successor a goal of raising
billions of dollars from asset sales this year to close the
funding gap and reduce the debt load.  ‘Deeply Sorry’  McClendon raised more than $30 billion since 2008 selling
burgeoning shale assets to companies including Exxon Mobil
Corp., Paris-based Total SA and Cnooc Ltd.,  China ’s largest
offshore energy producer.  “I’m deeply sorry for all of the distractions,” McClendon
said on a May 2 conference call.  The company called reports of McClendon’s personal finances
“an unprecedented, negative media campaign” in a May 22
presentation prepared for a UBS AG energy conference in Austin,
 Texas .  “While damaging in the short run to our reputation, these
attacks have failed, and will continue to fail, to reduce the
value of the company’s assets and our long-term attractiveness
to investors,” the company said in the 32-page presentation
published on its website. “At the end of the day, asset value
and quality will win and today’s shareholders should be well
rewarded.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  