-- Chicago May See Record Warmth as Severe Weather Moves East
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-01-29T14:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/chicago-may-see-record-warmth-as-severe-weather-moves-east.html
Chicago temperatures may set record
highs today while heavy rain and severe storms sweep the Midwest
and the  Mississippi  River Valley.  Chicago may reach a high for the date of 66 degrees
Fahrenheit (19 Celsius) later today, surpassing an old mark of
59 set in 1914, according to the  National Weather Service  in
Romeoville, Illinois. Records go back to 1872. The warmth won’t
last long. The forecast high on Jan. 31 is 19 degrees.  “Temperatures in the 60s are very rare in January,” the
weather service said in statement. “There have only been 33
January days with temperatures of 60 or greater in 141 years, or
about once every four years.”  Flood watches have been posted for Illinois to Ohio because
of the storm. The heavy rain will fall on frozen ground and
probably run off immediately, according to the weather service.
The result is the rains won’t help drought conditions much
throughout the area, said  Tom Kines , a meteorologist at
 AccuWeather Inc . in  State College ,  Pennsylvania .  “Any rain they get out there is good, but the problem is
it is coming all at once and a lot of it will run off,” Kines
said by telephone. “It won’t do nearly as much good as if it
came in April.”  The warm weather will be short-lived. Frigid air is
expected to sweep the region, sending high temperatures down by
more than 40 degrees within two days. The weather system causing
the swings and the rain will move eastward and arrive in New
York tomorrow.  Severe Storms  Having the two air masses clash will also trigger a series
of severe storms along their border, especially in the lower
Mississippi River Valley, Kines said.  “The two air masses clashing there will be the recipe for
severe weather,” Kines said.  Tornadoes are possible from  Illinois  to Louisiana and from
Texas to western Alabama, according to the U.S.  Storm Prediction
Center  in Norman, Oklahoma. Arkansas has the greatest risk. A
tornado watch, meaning the storms may be spawned, was issued
across central Oklahoma earlier today.  Dallas  has an 80 percent chance of thunderstorms today.
Winds of 30 miles per hour may disrupt  air travel  there.  There is also a 45 percent chance that damaging winds will
sweep over Arkansas, as well as parts of Louisiana and
Mississippi, the center said. There is a 15 percent chance of
hail across most of the lower Mississippi Valley from Illinois
to the  Gulf of Mexico .  The warm air, without the severe thunderstorms and
tornadoes, is expected to reach  New York  tomorrow and push the
high to at least 59 degrees, Kines said. The weather service
says 2 inches of rain may fall in New York tomorrow night.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  