-- Chinese Company Sues Former Owner of Blocked Wind Project
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-01-29T02:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/chinese-company-sues-former-owner-of-blocked-wind-project.html
Chinese-owned Ralls Corp., blocked
by President  Barack Obama  from buying an Oregon wind-farm
project, sued a company that owned the properties, according to
a document filed in federal court in  Washington .  Ralls said it is bringing a lawsuit against a U.S. unit of
Athens-based Terna Energy SA, and asked for a temporary
restraining order and a preliminary injunction in connection
with the suit, according to a one-paragraph letter from Ralls’s
attorney,  Viet Dinh , to U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson.
The judge is overseeing Ralls’s lawsuit against the U.S. seeking
to overturn Obama’s decision.  The Ralls complaint against Terna wasn’t available from the
court’s electronic records and its letter offered no information
about the case it filed or the purpose of the requested
injunction.  Tim Xia, an attorney for Ralls, declined to comment on the
lawsuit. A person who answered the phone at Terna’s offices in
 Athens  after regular business hours said no one was available
for comment.  In the earlier case, Ralls accused Obama and other U.S.
officials of violating its constitutional rights by blocking the
wind-farm sale on national security grounds.  Wind-Farm Project  Terna sold its interest in the wind-farm project in March
2012 to Intelligent Wind Energy LLC, a unit of U.S. Innovative
 Renewable Energy  LLC, an American-owned company, according to
court filings by Ralls. U.S. Innovative Renewable Energy then
sold Intelligent Wind Energy to Ralls, according to court
papers.  Obama on Sept. 28 blocked Ralls from developing the
project, which is near a U.S. Navy base, citing national
security risks. His action made permanent an interim order by
the government’s Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S., or
CFIUS, which reviews acquisitions of domestic companies by non-
U.S. entities.  Ralls is owned by executives of China-based Sany Group Co.,
which was seeking to place Sany-made  wind turbines  at the Oregon
installations.  Ralls sued the government on Sept. 12 and added Obama as a
defendant on Oct. 1.  Justice Department lawyers asked Jackson to throw out the
case on Oct. 29. She has yet to rule on the request.  The case referred to in the letter is Ralls Corp. v. Terna
Energy USA Holding Corp. 13-117, U.S. District Court,  District
of Columbia  (Washington). The earlier case is Ralls Corp. v.
Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S., 1:12-cv-01513, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  