-- Shanghai Composite Enters Bull Market on Economic Growth
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-01-29T08:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/china-s-stock-futures-rise-signaling-index-may-extend-rally.html
China’s stocks rose, sending the
benchmark index into a bull market, on optimism over the outlook
for the nation’s economy. Financial and energy shares led gains.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 0.5 percent to
2,358.98 at the close, extending its advance since Dec. 3 to 20
percent, a threshold signaling a bull market to some investors.
Haitong Securities Co., the second-biggest listed brokerage
jumped 7.3 percent, leading a rally for financial shares. Shanxi
Lu’an Environmental Energy Development Co. surged 3.1 percent as
oil traded near the highest level in four months in New York.  Chinese stocks have rallied since approaching a four-year
low last month on signs of an economic recovery and a government
pledge to bolster urban development. A government report showed 
yesterday industrial companies’ profits jumped 17.3 percent last 
month. A preliminary reading for a Purchasing Managers’ Index 
last week showed manufacturing expanded at the fastest rate in 
two years.  “The economic is recovering and this is the year of
reforms by new leaders, so there are a lot of expectations,”
Deng Wenyuan, an analyst at Soochow Securities Co., said by
phone from Suzhou, near Shanghai. “We are expecting
urbanization to pick up pace and there are hopes for more
liquidity in the stock market. This rally should continue.”  The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  advanced 0.9 percent to 2,675.87 today
and is up 27 percent since Dec. 3. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  slid 0.3 percent today. The Bloomberg China-US
55 Index increased 0.1 percent in New York yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite exited its longest-ever bear market
today. A 756-day stretch without a 20 percent gain from Nov. 8,
2010, through Dec. 3 is the longest on record, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and Birinyi Associates Inc. The gauge fell
38 percent during the period.  Financials Rally  The Shanghai index surged 15 percent last month, the most
since July 2009, after the government said it would spend more
on urban development to drive economic growth. Li Keqiang, due
to replace Wen Jiabao as premier in March, is championing
urbanization as a new growth engine that will boost incomes and
consumption.  The Shanghai measure is trading at  13 times  reported
earnings, the highest level since May. Average trading volumes
in the index were 13 percent higher than the 30-day average
today. Its 30-day volatility was at 17.8 yesterday, compared
with last year’s average of 17.1.  A gauge of  financial stocks  including banks, brokerages,
insurers and developers rose 1.7 percent today, the most among
10 industry groups. The sub-index has rallied 38 percent since
Dec. 3, the biggest gain among the groups.  IPO Outlook  Citic Securities Co., the largest-listed brokerage, jumped
4.3 percent to 14.96 yuan today. Haitong Securities Co., the
second-biggest, rose 7.3 percent to 11.81 yuan for a two-day
gain of 16 percent. Brokerages rallied yesterday after
regulators announced an expansion in the number of stocks
available for short selling and margin trading.  China may let individual investors in Taiwan invest in
Chinese stocks and bonds, Taiwan’s Economic Daily News reported
today, citing Guo Shuqing, chairman of the China Securities
Regulatory Commission. The CSRC has expanded foreign investor
quotas to buy stocks, cut trading fees and pushed companies to
increase dividends since Guo became chairman in 2011.  China won’t review or approve applications for IPOs in the
first half of this year, the Economic Information Daily reported
today, citing an unidentified person close to the securities
regulator. The number of companies awaiting approval for IPOs in
China swelled to more than 800 in December as regulators held
back from reviewing new applications on concern a flood of
shares may further weigh on equities.  Coal Stocks  “With regards to IPOs, officials have time and again
stressed they are controlling IPO applications as a way of
reassuring investors,” Liu Guangming, an analyst at Dongxing
Securities Co., said today from Beijing. “As the Chinese New
Year approaches, a lot of investors will leave the market and
liquidity will tighten. Economic data has improved so in the
long term, the market will still head upwards though the pace of
gains won’t be as fast.”  The market will be closed for a week from Feb. 11 for the
Lunar New Year holidays.  Shanxi Lu’an jumped for a second day, gaining 3.1 percent
to 22.56  yuan . Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. added 1.4 percent to
18.23 yuan. Oil traded near the highest level in four months in
New York. Rising oil prices boost demand for alternative energy
such as coal.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slipped 0.3 percent to $40.96
yesterday, extending last week’s 1.4 percent decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  