-- Clearwire Falls After Dish Says It Won’t Block Spring
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-01-29T17:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/clearwire-falls-on-report-dish-won-t-file-sprint-deal-petition.html
Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , the wireless
Internet company that agreed to be acquired by  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S) , fell in trading after  Dish (DISH)  Network Corp. said it won’t
seek regulatory action to block the transaction.  Dish in a letter told the Federal Communications Commission
it decided not to file a petition opposing Sprint’s acquisition
by Tokyo-based  Softbank Corp. (9984)  Sprint’s Clearwire transaction is
being reviewed as part of the $20 billion Softbank bid.  The U.S. Justice Department, in a filing posted today on
the FCC’s website, asked the FCC to defer consideration of the
Softbank acquisition. The department, including the FBI, and the
Department of  Homeland Security  are reviewing the proposal for
national security and law enforcement issues, according to the
filing.  Dish, in a letter filed yesterday, said it is in
“continued negotiations” to acquire Clearwire.  Investors have pushed up Clearwire’s shares on the
expectation that Sprint will increase its offer of $2.97 a
share. Dish has offered $3.30 a share, a transaction that would
be more complicated because Sprint, based in Overland Park,
Kansas, already owns a majority stake in Clearwire.  Dish in a  Jan. 16 filing  asked the FCC to pause its
consideration of the related Softbank deal. In yesterday’s
letter, Dish said it wouldn’t ask the FCC to block the purchase.  Sprint’s offer to Clearwire is conditioned on its ability
to complete the Softbank deal.  Shares Fall  Clearwire dropped 1.2 percent to $3.32 in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading at 12:25 p.m. in  New York  after earlier falling
as much as 4.2 percent, the biggest intraday decline since Dec.
17.  Mike DiGioia, a spokesman for Clearwire, declined to
comment. Separately, DiGioia said he expected Clearwire would
file its proxy related to Sprint’s takeover offer within a week.  Steve Hall, a spokesman for Englewood, Colorado-based Dish,
declined to comment.  Dow Jones Newswires earlier reported the Dish filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in New York at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net  or
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  