-- Cleanliness Meets Godliness as Russia Reeled Into Cyprus
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2013-01-30T12:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/cleanliness-meets-godliness-as-russia-reeled-into-cyprus.html
When the leader of the Orthodox
Church in Cyprus requested financial assistance for the ailing
country last week, he turned east, not west.  Archbishop Chrysostomos II, acting “at the government’s
disposal,” said on Jan. 24 he asked his counterpart in Moscow
to try to persuade President  Vladimir Putin  to grant another
emergency loan, adding to the 2.5 billion euros ($3.4 billion)
Cyprus got from Russia 13 months ago.  Fifteen years after its own default, Russia is reluctantly
being pulled into efforts to keep the 17-nation euro area intact
because of financial ties with Cyprus that Germany claims
involve  money laundering . Government support of Cyprus’s banks
may push its total aid program to more than 17 billion euros,
almost equaling the island’s 18 billion-euro gross domestic
product, according to  Fitch Ratings .  Cyprus, which requested a financial rescue in June, says it
will be able to meet its obligations through the first quarter.
The German government is insisting Russia contribute to any
international bailout because it argues that Russian capital,
legal or illegal, dominates the banking system.  “Cyprus has functioned as a Laundromat for Russia for
years,” said Raymond Baker, who heads Global Financial
Integrity, a money-laundering watchdog in Washington. “It would
be poetic justice if the EU required Russia to throw in some of
the stabilization funds.”  Unjust Claims  Eva Rossidou-Papakyriakou, head of the Cypriot agency that
combats money laundering, said the country’s rules are stricter
than those of some other EU countries.  “Yes, we have money coming from Russians, but they invest
in many jurisdictions and all checks are done by the banks and
are monitored by the central bank as their supervisory
authority,” she said by phone from Nicosia, the capital.  Accusations that Cyprus is a tax haven and a center for
illegal Russian money are “unfounded” and “unjust,”
Yiannakis Omirou, president of the Cypriot Parliament, wrote in
a letter yesterday to his counterparts in the euro region.  A double-tax avoidance treaty and low tax rates have made
Cyprus the conduit of choice for Russians moving money into and
out of their country: Cyprus is, technically, both the biggest
direct investor into Russia and the biggest recipient of Russian
investment abroad, according to Russian central bank data.  ‘Nobody Knows’  Cypriot President Demetris Christofias said Putin assured
him in a telephone conversation yesterday that Russia is
prepared to contribute to a loan package, according to a
statement from the Nicosia-based Press Ministry. Yet while
Cyprus serves an important role for Russian companies, “nobody
knows” exactly how much Russian money is in Cypriot banks,
First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  told Bloomberg
Television on Jan. 18.  Christofias, who steps down next month, is a Russian-
speaking communist who earned his doctorate in Moscow during the
Cold War. Russian billionaire Dmitry Rybolovlev is the largest
shareholder of the country’s biggest lender,  Bank of Cyprus Plc. (BOCY) 
The Church of Cyprus controls 28 percent of the third-largest
lender,  Hellenic Bank Pcl (HB) , which has a  unit in Moscow .  A German intelligence report sent to parliamentarians in
November put the amount of Russian money in Cyprus at 26 billion
euros, according to Green Party lawmaker Priska Hinz.  Contagion Risk  Such “high” flows raise laundering concerns and
necessitate Russia’s participation in any rescue, German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said on television and in parliament
in Berlin this month. Russia will “act together with the
Europeans,” though not alone, Schaeuble’s counterpart, Anton Siluanov, said in an interview near Moscow on Jan. 23.  “Time is running out,” Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker, who stepped down as head of a group of euro-area
finance ministers last week, told the Austrian newspaper Kleine
Zeitung in an interview published today.  “One shouldn’t underestimate the Cyprus problem,” Juncker
was cited as saying. “If we don’t solve the Cyprus problem in a
decisive manner, there’s the risk of a contagion even coming
from this very small economy.”  Cyprus had its  credit rating  cut two steps to B, five below
investment grade, last week by Fitch Ratings. Costs to
recapitalize banks may reach 10 billion euros, pushing the
bailout total to 17 billion euros, Fitch estimated on Jan. 25.  “The Russians obviously are trying to get a free ride
first, because that’s the cheapest solution for them: Let the
euro zone take care of Cyprus,” said Joerg Forbrig, an analyst
at  German Marshall Fund  of the United States in Berlin.  Waiting Game  A day before the Cypriot archbishop said he reached out to
Patriarch Kirill, Russian Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  said at
the  World Economic Forum  in Davos that there may be more money
available for Cyprus, though it would depend on “when our
European partners also give something.”  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is facing an election in September
or October and Germany will be less inclined to agree to a
“generous bailout” the closer we get to the vote, said
Forbrig. That means Russia can’t hold out for long, he said.  The opposition  Social Democrats  are likely to portray any
rescue of Cyprus as primarily benefiting rich Russians, said
 Lutz Roehmeyer , a  fund manager  at Landesbank Berlin Investment.  “If you bail out Cyprus knowing that you bail out Russian
and Greek oligarchs that do not pay taxes, you have a fantastic
topic for the socialists,” said Roehmeyer, who helps oversee
about $19 billion of assets and holds Cypriot bonds.  Invasion  Russia and Cyprus have been allies since Cyprus gained
independence from Britain in 1960. Russia has backed Cyprus in
its territorial dispute with Turkey, which has held the northern
part of the island since a 1974 invasion.  Cyprus, an EU member since 2004, considers Russia the
guarantor of its territorial integrity, Foreign Minister Erato Kozakou-Markoulli said in Moscow last year.  Almost 500,000 Russians visited Cyprus in 2012, more than
from any other country except the U.K., according to government
statistics. The country of 1.1 million has more than 10,500
Russian-born permanent residents.  Cyprus turned to Russia before the EU for emergency aid
because the Russians impose fewer restrictions on their loans,
government spokesman  Stefanos Stefanou  said in June.  Euro-area finance ministers probably won’t decide on a
course of action for Cyprus until March, after the so-called
troika of the European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and
the International Monetary Fund assesses the country’s finances,
Juncker said Jan. 21.  Power Change  By then, Cyprus will have a new leader. The first round of
elections to replace Christofias, 66, who is retiring after five
years, is scheduled for Feb. 17. A second round will be held
Feb. 24 unless there’s an outright victor.  Nicos Anastasiades, leader of the main opposition DISY
party, will probably win, a poll by LS Prime Market Research for
Simerini newspaper shows. Merkel endorsed Anastasiades on a
visit to Limassol, Cyprus’s second-biggest city, on Jan. 11.  Russia may feel compelled to join a bailout for Cyprus to
preserve its influence inside the euro region after
Christofias’s term ends, according to Deutsche Bank AG analysts.  “We could see further Russian involvement down the line,
even if the stance of a new Cypriot president is bound to be
less Russia-friendly than that of the Soviet-educated
Christofias,” Deutsche Bank analyst Peter Sidorov said in a
Jan. 18 research note. “For instance, Russian investors could
be targeted to take equity stakes in the restructured banks.”  Bank ‘Implosion’  For now, both the Europeans and Russians appear to be
waiting for the outcome of the Cyprus elections. The country
must be “systemically relevant” to the euro to receive aid,
the German Finance Ministry said Jan. 28.  Russia, for its part, wants Cyprus to enact “structural
measures” to lower its  debt burden  and get the budget on a
stable footing, Siluanov said in the Jan. 23 interview.  The comments suggest Russia probably won’t give new aid
unless Russian money is “threatened by the implosion of some
bank,” said  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of research at BNP Paribas
SA in Moscow. “Why give even more?” she said on Jan. 28. “It
would be easier to just buy all of Cyprus.”  Oligarchs  Europe’s need for Russian help in crafting its fifth
sovereign bailout since the credit crisis began more than three
years ago is in stark contrast to 1998. That year,  Boris Yeltsin ’s government defaulted on domestic debt after selling
some of the country’s most valuable assets at knockdown prices
to a group of insiders that came to be known as the oligarchs.  Russia now holds about $530 billion in foreign currency and
gold  reserves , the most in the world after China, Japan and
Saudi Arabia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The country also runs a balanced budget and has one of the
lowest debt-to-GDP ratios, less than 12 percent. Debt in Cyprus
was expected to rise to 86 percent in 2012 from 71 percent a
year earlier, according to the Cypriot Finance Ministry.  Whatever happens, Russia will probably go beyond simply
extending the five-year loan it gave Cyprus in December 2011 and
offer new money, said  Christoph Weil , a senior economist at
Commerzbank AG. Given that Russia already stepped in to prevent
a Cyprus default and its largest gas producer, OAO Gazprom,
appears interested in developing deposits discovered off the
coast, a new aid package is likely, Weil said on Jan. 28  “Russia has a strong economic and political interest in
the island and would probably help the Cypriot government
financially,” Weil said by e-mail from Frankfurt. “Many
Russian citizens live in Cyprus and a large number of Russian
companies have invested in the country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  