-- Colombia Cerrejon Union to Strike for Higher Pay, Union Says
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-01-29T18:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/colombia-cerrejon-union-to-strike-for-higher-pay-union-says.html
Workers at Cerrejon, a Colombian
coal mine owned by BHP Billiton Plc,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and  Anglo
American Plc (AAL) , plan to go on strike after wage talks broke down,
a union official said.  About 4,500 workers voted for a work stoppage at Cerrejon,
the country’s largest coal mine, starting between Feb. 1 and 9
to press their demands for an 8.5 percent pay rise and better
health-care benefits, said Luz Maria Tobon, a spokeswoman for
the National Coal Industry Workers Union, known as Sintracarbon.
The workers have been offered a 5 percent increase, she said.  “We can’t accept their proposal because it doesn’t match
our needs or the company’s earnings,” Tobon said today in a
telephone interview from Medellin.  The mine is investing $1.3 billion to boost output to 40
million tons by 2014, Carlos Franco, international relations
manager, said in a Nov. 6 interview. Cerrejon produced 34.6
million tons of coal in 2012, the company said Jan. 4 in a
 statement  on its website.  Cerrejon has invited the union to resume negotiations in a
bid to avoid a strike, spokesman Juan Carlos Restrepo said in a
telephone interview. The union, which may resume talks while it
decides the strike date, also wants better compensation for
communities forced to move as the mine expands, according to its
 website .  The benchmark price for hard coking coal in the first
quarter is $165 a ton, down 2.9 percent from the fourth quarter
and the lowest since $129 a ton in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Thermal coal for 2014 delivery to
Amsterdam, Rotterdam or Antwerp traded at $100.35 a metric ton
today, according to broker data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  