-- Container Shipping Faces Merger Urge as Money Dries Up: Freight
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-01-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/container-shipping-faces-merger-urge-as-money-dries-up-freight.html
The container shipping industry may
face a wave of mergers as carriers try to cushion themselves
from the current crisis and grow to lower costs and improve
access to funding.  Hamburg-based Hapag-Lloyd AG, the world’s sixth-largest
container line, is in merger talks with Hamburg Sued, the No.
12, to create the world’s fourth-largest carrier. The two lines
together would have capacity less than only A.P. Moeller-Maersk
A/S, CMA CGM SA and Mediterranean Shipping Co. While Hamburg
Sued focuses on North-South trade, Hapag-Lloyd mainly operates
on East-West lanes such as  Asia  to Europe.  Carriers have struggled to make profits in the past two
years because of an overcapacity of vessels, slumping demand and
low freight rates.  Maersk Line , the world’s largest container
carrier, has higher profitability than rivals because of its
size, suggesting that economies of scale are key in shielding
the industry from downturns. The world’s top four lines control
41 percent of global container capacity, according to data
provider Alphaliner SA.  “One reason why you need a certain size is to be able to
be competitive on the biggest trade lanes and to get access to
larger tonnage,” Kai Miller, Hamburg-based head of the
container desk at London ship broker ICAP, said in a phone
interview. “There might also be a chance that some
organizations perfectly complement each other, either through
their activity in specific trades or through the existence of
excellent management and organizational structures.”  Share Sale  Hapag-Lloyd had been planning an initial public offering
before merger talks with Hamburg Sued were announced, as has
 France ’s CMA CGM.  Costamare Inc. (CMRE) , the Greek owner of 58
chartered  container ships , sold 7 million shares at $14 per
share in October to raise cash for ship purchases.  Maersk Line (MAERSKB)  operates 600 ships with capacity of 2.6 million
standard containers, making it the world’s No. 1, according to
Paris-based Alphaliner. Hapag-Lloyd has an equal amount of trade
on its  Far East , Atlantic, Latin American and transpacific
routes, between 22 and 23 percent in 2011. That means it’s less
vulnerable to downturns on one line and that it can compensate
slumps in rates on one route by raising prices on another.  “Container shipping is the epicenter of economies of
scale, so if you are able to lower your unit cost per box that
you handle you may be able to get a small profit when your
competitors run a deficit,” said Peter Sand, an analyst at
BIMCO shipping association in Bagsvaerd,  Denmark . “That will
give you the upside.”  No Wave?  Still, he doesn’t expect an outbreak of mergers in the
industry in coming years as a lot of the potential consolidation
has already taken place. France’s CMA CGM, based in Marseille,
was created through the merger of Cie. Maritime d’Affretement
and CGM in 1996. It then acquired  Australia ’s ANL in 1998.
Taiwan’s  Evergreen Marine Corp. (2603)  has swallowed companies
including Uniglory and Italia Marittima in the past few decades.
Maersk has taken over lines including Sea-Land Services’
container operations and Royal P&O Nedlloyd.  Some carriers without strong government ties “may find
themselves in an extremely difficult financial situation where a
merger with a more financially sound partner may be one of the
only ways going forward,” said Sand, declining to comment on
what container carriers may be merger candidates.  Hapag-Lloyd spokesman Rainer Horn declined to comment,
while Hamburg Sued didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Funding Access  Hapag-Lloyd and Hamburg Sued said on Dec. 18 last year that
their executive boards, in agreement with their owners, are
“investigating if and under what conditions a  merger of both
companies  would be of interest.” Rahul Kapoor, a Singapore-
based analyst at Drewry Maritime Equity Research, said a merger
would have operational benefits, increase the revenue base and
lead to cost savings for the two German carriers.  Still, “the key is relatively easier access to funding,”
Kapoor said. “ Capital markets  like size.”  An exit by many banks from ship financing, including
Commerzbank AG’s decision last year to withdraw from maritime
lending and HSH Nordbank AG’s plan to reduce its shipping
balance sheet, has exacerbated the maritime industry crisis.  Banks such as  DNB ASA (DNB)  and  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  still lend to the
industry, typically using money paid back on existing loans to
finance new credit. Still, European lenders face stricter
 capital requirements , making them more cautious on new lending
than during the shipping industry’s boom years.  Total Capital  Maersk Line’s earnings before interest and taxes was $129
per standard container, or TEU, in the third quarter, compared
with an industry average of $65 per TEU, according to Dan Togo Jensen, an analyst with Svenska Handelsbanken AB in Copenhagen.
That put Maersk among the top three highest earners in the
quarter, according to Jensen.  “Maersk Line’s profitability is driven by its size,”
Jensen, who has a buy recommendation on the stock, said by
phone. “Profitability in the third quarter was also helped by a
relative jump in freight rates on Asia- Europe , which is Maersk
Line’s most important route.”  Of the total of 367 deals worth $91 billion in the shipping
and offshore industry in the first 11 months of last year, banks
supplied only $34.3 billion, or 38 percent, of the total
capital, according to data from Marine Money International. At
the industry peak in 2007, banks accounted for $129.2 billion,
or 75 percent, of the total of $234.7 billion, the data shows.  The drying up of credit may result in more companies
seeking to raise cash in IPOs, Miller said, declining to name
potential candidates.  “You need to be big if you’re to order the biggest
ships,” said Miller. “You need a lot of money and you need to
have plenty of these big ships to be able to operate a route
successfully. One is not enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  