-- Cotton Outlook Seen Improving in Australia After Floods, Rains
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-01-29T08:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/cotton-outlook-seen-improving-in-australia-after-floods-rains.html
Flooding and heavy rainfall caused
by ex-tropical cyclone Oswald that may damage some cotton crops
in  Australia , the world’s fourth-biggest shipper, will boost
production in other regions, according to a growers’ group.  “In overall terms, the area of cotton affected by the most
recent downpour is reasonably small,” Cotton Australia Chief
Executive Officer Adam Kay said in a statement today. While so-
called waterlogging may have a short-term impact on crops in
some areas, this will be balanced by higher yields and better
fiber quality, he said.  Thousands of people were evacuated from their homes and
hundreds more are isolated by  floodwaters  in rural settlements
across Queensland and New South Wales. Other states are still
battling bushfires after temperatures soared to a record this
month. While floods in eastern Australia last year damaged some
cotton crops, production surged to a record 1.2 million tons in
as rains boosted water supplies.  “In most areas where rain has not reached disaster
flooding levels, the additional water has been a boon for cotton
farmers, bringing last-minute relief to allow crops to reach
full yield and quality potential and replenishing water supplies
for future irrigation,” Kay said. “We’ve had such a hot summer
that many growers were behind in their irrigation and had
already used the bulk of their water allocations.”  Production may be 4 million bales of 227 kilograms, Kay
said today, from an estimated 5.3 million bales in 2012. Cotton
harvesting is expected to begin in Emerald, Queensland, about
the end of February, with the bulk of picking in late March and
early April, according to today’s statement.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  