-- Credit Suisse Said to Seek to Sublet at Hong Kong Skyscraper
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-01-29T02:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/credit-suisse-said-to-seek-to-sublet-2-floors-at-hong-kong-s-icc.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  is seeking to
sublet as much as 64,000 square feet of office space in Hong
Kong’s tallest skyscraper, as prime office vacancies rise in the
city amid job cuts by global financial services companies.  The Zurich-based bank is looking for tenants to take up two
floors, or about a fifth of the space it currently occupies at
the International Commerce Centre in West Kowloon, according to
two people with knowledge of the matter, who declined to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  Global banks, including Morgan Stanley and UBS AG, are
trimming jobs in  Asia  as an economic slowdown reduces demand
from companies for investment banking services. Barclays Plc,
Britain’s second-largest bank, plans to eliminate at least 15
percent of its investment banking positions in the region,
people with knowledge of the matter said last week.  Companies raised $8 billion through initial public
offerings in  Hong Kong  last year, the lowest amount since 2003
and down 63 percent from 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Rental of prime offices in Hong Kong’s Central business
district will extend last year’s decline, the biggest since the
global credit crisis in 2008, until at least the end of the
first half, property broker CBRE Group Inc. has said. Vacancies
in prime buildings are nearing a three-year high amid job losses
in the financial services industry, according to broker Colliers
International.  Josephine Lee, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Credit
Suisse, declined to comment on the bank’s occupancy plan.  ICC Relocation  The 118-floor ICC was built and is being managed by  Sun
Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the world’s biggest developer by
market value. Since 2007, Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse and
Deutsche Bank AG are among banks that have relocated to the
tower on the Kowloon peninsula, about a 10-minute subway ride
across the harbor from the Central business district on  Hong
Kong Island .  Margaret Ng, a spokeswoman for Sun Hung Kai, declined to
comment on plans by the building’s tenants.  Central is the world’s most expensive place to lease office
space, with an annual occupancy cost of $246.3 per square foot,
CBRE said in a report in December. West Kowloon is seventh in
the ranking at $174.13.  London-based DTZ Holdings Plc said this month that  London ’s
West End has replaced Hong Kong as the world’s most expensive
office location. The report measured the amount companies spent
on  office space  for each employee.  The second-biggest Swiss bank announced plans in October to
trim a further 1 billion francs ($1.08 billion) in annual costs
by the end of 2015, increasing a target for cost reductions. The
bank is eliminating jobs in businesses including equities and
advisory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  