-- CSN Climbs on Report BNDES to Help Finance ThyssenKrupp Purchase
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-01-29T16:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/csn-climbs-on-report-bndes-to-help-finance-thyssenkrupp-purchase.html
Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA rose
the most in four weeks after  Valor Economico  reported that the
steelmaker may get as much as 4 billion reais ($2 billion) from
 Brazil ’s development bank to buy assets from  ThyssenKrupp AG. (TKA)   Shares of CSN, as the company is also known, advanced 2.2
percent to 11.27 reais at 1:57 p.m. in Sao Paulo after earlier
rising as much as 4.1 percent in the steepest intraday advance
since Jan. 2. The benchmark Bovespa index rose 0.1 percent.  CSN would use the financing from the state-run development
bank BNDES to buy ThyssenKrupp’s CSA steel-slabs plant in Brazil
and Calvert Steel in the U.S., as soon as this quarter, Valor
Economico reported, citing unidentified people close to the
negotiations. The Sao Paulo-based steelmaker would hold a 60
percent stake in the companies while BNDES would have 30
percent, according to the newspaper.  “BNDES helping in the acquisition is very positive,”
Karina Freitas, an analyst at brokerage Concordia SA in  Sao
Paulo , said in a phone interview. “The company has a high level
of cash, but also a high level of debt. If it had to finance the
operation by itself, leverage would increase a lot. BNDES
joining would mitigate some of that pressure.”  A press official at CSN who asked not to be identified in
accordance with company policy declined to comment. An official
at BNDES’s press office who asked not to be named in accordance
with the bank’s policy declined to comment in an e-mailed reply
to questions.  CSN shares have dropped 39 percent in the past year, while
the Bovespa fell 4.3 percent in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  