-- Cyprus Polls Show Anastasiades Won Second Presidential Debate
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l   a n d   G e o r g i o s   G e o r g i o u
-- 2013-01-29T13:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/cyprus-polls-show-anastasiades-won-second-presidential-debate.html
Nicos Anastasiades, leader of
Cyprus’s main opposition party DISY, won the most support during
the second televised debate among the three main presidential
candidates, two television polls showed today.  Anastasiades was the winning speaker for 53 percent of
viewers participating in a Mega TV survey. He was followed by
independent George Lillikas, with 37 percent, while Stavros Malas, who’s backed by President Demetris Christofias’s ruling
Akel party, came in third with 10 percent. Viewers were asked to
vote by phone during the debate late yesterday,  Mega  said.  In a similar survey by  Sigma TV , also conducted by
telephone during the two-hour discussion, 43.3 percent of
viewers said Anastasiades was the most convincing, compared with
18.2 percent each for Lillikas and Malas. Neither poll said how
many viewers took part or gave a margin of error.  Cyprus is in negotiations with European partners and the
 International Monetary Fund  for a bailout that could approach
the size of its roughly 18 billion-euro ($24 billion) economy,
after becoming last June the fifth euro nation to seek aid.  The first round of Cyprus’s election is scheduled for Feb.
17 and the second for Feb. 24 if no candidate gets more than 50
percent in the first ballot. The next president will sign the
bailout agreement.  The debate focused on the three candidates’ views on
efforts to reunify Cyprus. The island has been divided between a
Greek-speaking south and a Turkish-speaking north since  Turkey 
invaded in 1974 following a coup aimed at joining the nation
with  Greece .  Anastasiades also was deemed the most convincing speaker
during the first televised debate among the three candidates on
Jan. 14, according to polls by the two TV stations released the
following day. That discussion centered on the economy.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  flew on Jan. 11 to
Limassol, Cyprus’s second-biggest city, to campaign for
Anastasiades. Like Merkel, the 66-year-old lawyer is a member of
the European  People’s Party .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Georgios Georgiou in Athens at 
 ggeorgiou5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  