-- Czech Co-Ruling Party Demands to Join EU’s Fiscal Pact
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-01-29T16:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/czech-co-ruling-party-demands-to-join-eu-s-fiscal-pact.html
TOP09, a Czech ruling-coalition
party, demanded the country join the European Union’s fiscal
compact this year, setting up a clash with Premier Petr Necas,
who opposes the move.  The three ruling parties are negotiating a new coalition
pact after the administration lost its parliamentary  majority 
last year when the smallest party splintered. The U.K. and the
Czech Republic were the only EU members not to sign the fiscal
treaty in March, which stiffened budget rules meant to stabilize
the euro.  TOP09 “will demand the coalition agreement” between the
three parties “include a government commitment to join this
agreement on the EU level already in 2013,” the party said in a
statement posted on its website in Prague today.  The Czech government is refusing to set a target date for
euro adoption and opposes efforts for closer financial
integration within the bloc. The country didn’t have to bail out
any of its lenders, mostly owned by western banks, during the
global financial crisis and the government says it wants to
prevent outflow of domestic deposits abroad.  Coalition leaders will debate TOP09’s fiscal-compact
demand, Necas said in an e-mailed statement today.  “I believe that it isn’t meant to spark a dispute about
this issue within the coalition in light of the result of
presidential elections,” Necas said.  Karel Schwarzenberg, TOP09 chairman and the foreign
minister, finished second in the Czech Republic’s first direct
presidential election after a surprise advance to the run-off
round on Jan. 25-26.  Necas also reiterated that he wants the country to hold a
referendum on joining the euro area. The Czech Republic
committed to adopting the single currency when it joined the EU
together with seven other post-communist nations in 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  