-- D.R. Horton Climbs After Reporting That Earnings Doubled
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-01-29T21:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/d-r-horton-profit-more-than-doubles-as-market-rebounds.html
D.R. Horton  Inc., the largest U.S.
homebuilder by volume, rose to its highest level in almost six
years after reporting that earnings more than doubled in the
fiscal first quarter.  Net income was $66.3 million, or 20 cents a share, for the
three months ended Dec. 31, up from $27.7 million, or 9 cents, a
year earlier, the  Fort Worth , Texas-based company said in a
statement today. The average estimate of 19 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey was for earnings of 14 cents a share.  Low  mortgage rates  and a shrinking  inventory  of existing
residences on the market are fueling sales of new houses. U.S.
builders sold 367,000  homes  in 2012, the most in three years,
the Commerce Department said last week. Under Chief Executive
Officer Donald J. Tomnitz, D.R. Horton has focused on using its
size advantage to control costs and increase market share by
accelerating land purchases ahead of smaller competitors.  The builder set “a high bar for the peer group during this
round of earnings,” Vincent Foley and  Cedric Morris , analysts
with Barclays Plc, wrote in a research note today. “D.R. Horton
improved on its solid 2012 results and is well-positioned to
benefit from increased demand during this year’s spring selling
season.”  The shares gained 12 percent to $23.82 at the close of
trading in  New York , the highest since March 2007 and the best
performance among the 11 members of the Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilding  Index (S15HOME) , which increased 3 percent.  Revenue Rises  D.R. Horton’s homebuilding revenue for the quarter rose 39
percent from a year earlier to $1.23 billion. Orders jumped 39
percent to 5,259 homes. The company’s contract backlog, an
indication of future sales, rose 80 percent to $1.76 billion.  The builder is adding homes and communities to take
advantage of the increasing demand, which was strong in both the
entry-level and move-up segments, Tomnitz said today on a
conference call with analysts.  “We are anticipating a good spring selling season,”
Horton said. “We’ve put a significant amount of capital to work
this quarter by increasing our investments in homes under
construction, finished lots, land, and land development. D.R.
Horton is in the best position it has ever been in its 35-year
history.”  Adam Rudiger, an analyst with  Wells Fargo & Co . in  Boston ,
said D.R. Horton’s order growth beat his estimate for a 20
percent increase, while gross margins, a measure of
profitability, also were better than he forecast.  “The combination of better margins and orders suggests the
order outperformance did not come at the expense of overly
promotional activity,” he wrote in an e-mail to clients.
“Further, we believe DHI’s willingness and ability to so
significantly build inventory heading into the all-important
spring selling season positions the company well to take share
from those less willing to build” homes on a speculative basis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  