-- Danske Too-Big-to-Fail Stamp Won’t Help Rating, S&P Says
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-01-30T11:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/danske-too-big-to-fail-stamp-won-t-help-rating-s-p-says.html
Naming Danske Bank A/S a
systemically important financial institution won’t be enough to
trigger a ratings upgrade because the designation won’t change
existing assumptions of state support,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  The same logic applies to Copenhagen-based Nykredit A/S,
Europe’s biggest issuer of covered bonds backed by mortgages,
according to Per Tornqvist, a Stockholm-based director at S&P.
The institutions’ stand-alone ratings already get a two-level
boost because S&P assumes they’re too big to fail, he said.  “A wider notching following a Sifi report is not likely,”
Tornqvist said.  Denmark’s government-appointed Sifi committee is due to
deliver its recommendations by March 1, including a list of
banks and how much extra capital they must hold. It will also
address the need for living wills that would work as roadmaps
for orderly resolution. Whether Sifi-designation will make life
easier or harder for the biggest banks remains a subject of
debate.  Benny Engelbrecht, who heads parliament’s committee on bank
laws, said this month that Sifis will need to meet higher
capital standards to absorb losses, and rejected speculation
they’ll enjoy greater government support. Danske Chief Executive
Officer Eivind Kolding said in November the designation would
imply government support as his bank targets a ratings upgrade
to help lower funding costs.  ‘Similar Language’  Denmark’s biggest bank is rated A- at S&P, A at Fitch
Ratings and Baa1 at Moody’s Investors Service.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  of
 Sweden  enjoys a AA- rating at S&P, Aa3 at Moody’s and AA- at
Fitch.  While Danske’s ratings aren’t likely to rise, S&P is also
skeptical of the government’s claims it will refrain from
bailing out an institution whose total assets are twice
Denmark’s gross domestic product.  “We have a number of cases where similar language” to
Engelbrecht’s “has been used -- the U.K., the U.S.,  Switzerland 
-- and where we continue to say, ‘We hear what you’re saying but
we do not believe that this is the real policy quite yet,’”
Tornqvist said.  Denmark’s banks are facing  capital markets  with lower
ratings than their rivals in neighboring Sweden as the economy
struggles to surface from a 2008 burst real estate bubble and
regional banking crisis. The nation in 2011 became the first in
 Europe  to enforce bail-in legislation, triggering senior
creditor losses. Lawmakers have since passed a bank merger bill
that is designed to support consolidation and prevent more
outright bankruptcies.  Bank Takeovers  Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK) , Denmark’s second largest-listed lender,
last week took over Sparekassen Lolland A/S after an inspection
by the Financial Supervisory Authority uncovered writedowns big
enough to wipe out its equity. Sydbank A/S in November acquired
Toender Bank A/S after the regulator said its capital buffers
were too small to cover bad loans.  Denmark’s banks suffer from lower profitability and weaker
asset quality than their peers, the International Monetary Fund
estimates. Non-performing loans are about three times levels
outside Denmark, the IMF said in a report released this month by
the central bank. The Washington-based fund included an analysis
of banks in  Finland , Sweden, Switzerland and  Germany .  IMF Warning  The IMF also called into question Danish banks’ efforts to
build up capital. While the industry on average holds more than
13 percent core Tier 1 capital of risk weighted assets, which is
higher than banks elsewhere, the use of hybrid debt and internal
ratings models for assessing risk weights “masks the actual
capital position” which is “not as strong as indicated,” it
said.  Danske Bank is due to report its fourth-quarter results on
Feb. 7. Nordea said today its net income rose 7 percent to 840
million euros ($1.13 billion), while Swedbank AB reported a
more-than fourfold surge in profit, allowing the lender to
increase its dividend payout ratio to 75 percent from 50
percent.  Denmark ’s FSA said last week banks will be allowed to issue
new hybrid debt instruments to meet tougher capital demands only
if the securities convert to equity early enough to avoid eating
into regulatory buffers. The agency is broadening its definition
of regulatory capital as it imposes tougher individual solvency
requirements to avert another financial crisis.  ‘Absorb Shocks’  Governments want banks to hold more capital, and that’s
“positive for stability and for the ability to absorb shocks,”
Tornqvist said. The European Union directive for bank crisis
management is “equally strong in stating that governments are
not going to commit taxpayer money,” he said.  “But we haven’t seen in any of the cases I mentioned --nor
have we seen it in Denmark -- the tools necessary to make such
policy statements effective,” he said. “So we continue to
factor in expected, extraordinary government support in our bank
ratings.”  Danish banks may see the gap between their credit scores
and those of their peers shrink at  Fitch Ratings .  Government support isn’t factored into Nordic bank ratings,
but based on their financial strength alone, said Olivia Perney Guillot, senior director of financial institutions at Fitch.
That’s not the case for other countries, including Germany. As
those banks raise their capital levels, government support will
probably decline, she said.  “So far we have maintained most of our support rating
floors in Europe,” Guillot said.  “There is strong support for the biggest banks in each
country,” she said. “But we are watching the developments, and
we do expect at some point in the future that we will reduce the
expected level of support for the banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  