-- Defeat on U.K. Boundary Changes May Cost Tories 20 Seats
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-29T16:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/defeat-on-u-k-boundary-changes-may-cost-tories-20-seats.html
Prime Minister David Cameron’s
Conservatives lost a potential 20 extra seats at the next
election in 2015 after being defeated in a vote on proposed
changes to parliamentary district boundaries.  The Tories lost the vote in the House of Commons in  London 
today by 334 to 292, when their Liberal Democrat coalition
partners joined with the Labour opposition and smaller parties
to oppose proposals to lower the number of lawmakers and redraw
constituency boundaries before the election. The result reduces
the chance of Cameron winning an overall majority in 2015.  Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg ordered Liberal Democrat
lawmakers to vote against the proposal in retaliation for rank-
and-file Conservatives derailing his plans last year to overhaul
the upper House of Lords. Clegg said last August the Tories had
“broken the contract” made with his party during the coalition
negotiations of 2010.  Opposition Labour Party lawmaker Jack Straw defended his
party’s decision to oppose the boundary overhaul, arguing that
the Tories were aiming to gain a political advantage rather than
making electoral districts fairer. “The objection to the act
was because it was a wholly partisan measure, breaking a clear
convention that this kind of measure was agreed across the
parties,” Straw told lawmakers.  The Tories, who were 19 seats short of a majority in the
May 2010 election, would have been only been two seats short if
it had been contested on the proposed new boundaries, according
to Anthony Wells, associate director of pollster YouGov Plc. The
current constituency set-up tends to favor Labour, which gains
an advantage from winning smaller urban constituencies.  ‘Partisan Effort’  The Conservative leader of the House of Commons, Andrew Lansley, who oversees the passage of legislation, responded by
saying: “One could equally argue there was a partisan effort on
the part of the party opposite to frustrate the intention of
this house to bring equality and fairness into the franchise.”  The review of  parliamentary boundaries  is designed to
reduce the number of lawmakers in the Commons, Parliament’s
lower house, to 600 from 650 and create seats with roughly equal
numbers of voters.  The results of the next election will directly affect
Britain’s foreign and economic policy. Cameron has said he will
only offer a referendum on the nation’s relationship with the
European Union if he wins a majority in 2015. Meanwhile, the
Liberal Democrats might seek to temper proposed Tory spending
cuts in any future coalition negotiations.  Earlier this month, lawmakers in the Lords voted to
postpone the planned constituency shake-up until 2018 at the
earliest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  