-- Democrats Try Again to Spur Refinancing to Bolster U.S. Housing
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-01-29T15:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/democrats-try-again-to-spur-refinancing-to-bolster-u-s-housing.html
Underwater homeowners may get
additional federal assistance for refinancing government-backed
loans under a proposal being revived in the U.S. Senate.  Democratic Senators Robert Menendez of New Jersey and
Barbara Boxer of  California  plan to introduce as soon as this
week a bill that would expand the existing Home Affordable
Refinancing Program by promising lenders they won’t be forced to
absorb the loss on refinanced loans that default, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter. The person asked not to be
identified because the timing is not final.  The bill is the first of a series of measures planned by
the White House and congressional Democrats to promote
refinancing as a way to spur a recovery of the housing market.  The Menendez-Boxer bill, a new version of a measure that
failed to advance in the last session of Congress, would include
a one-year extension of HARP, which is aimed at helping
borrowers who are current on their mortgages but unable to
refinance because their home values have dropped. The program,
which applies to loans backed by U.S.-owned mortgage finance
companies  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac, is set to expire at the
end of this year; the bill would extend it through 2014.  “We believe the legislation -- if it could be adopted --
would be positive for the mortgage originators by giving them
more time to find borrowers eligible for HARP,” Jaret Seiberg,
senior policy analyst at Washington Research Group, a unit of
Guggenheim Securities LLC, wrote in a market commentary today.  Banks including  JP Morgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp.  could benefit, Seiberg
said.  Underwater Shrinkage  U.S. residential real estate lost about a third of its
value after home prices peaked in 2006. Prices are now rising
again, shrinking the number of underwater properties, worth less
than the mortgages on them. There are now about 7 million
underwater properties, down from 11 million in 2011, according
to JPMorgan.  The Obama administration has been pushing widespread
refinancing for homeowners who have been unable to take
advantage of historically low interest rates because they are
underwater on their mortgages.  The effort got a boost last October from changes to HARP
that allowed homeowners with loans backed by Fannie Mae and
 Freddie Mac (FMCC)  to refinance no matter how much their loans exceed
the value of their homes.  In a letter supporting the new bill, the National
Organization of Realtors said it “offers relief to homeowners
who continue to meet their mortgage obligation during this on-
going period of economic unrest.”  Menendez and Boxer were unable to pass the bill during the
last session of Congress because they were unable to garner
Republican support without opening up the measure for
amendments.  Passage also is not assured this session, Seiberg wrote.  “We detect little support among House Republican
leaders,” he said. “So even if it can pass the Senate, it may
well die in the House.”  About 1.8 million homeowners have used the HARP program to
refinance since the program began in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  