-- Democrats Mull Revenue Offset to Spending Cuts, Reid Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-01-29T21:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/democrats-to-mull-revenue-offsets-to-sequester-reid-says.html
Senate Democrats  will consider
revenue-generating alternatives that could be used to offset
automatic spending cuts set to take effect March 1, Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  said today.  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said Democrats will view options
at their policy retreat next week for limiting the automatic
cuts, known as sequestration.  The spending reductions, to take place over nine years,
would be split evenly between defense and non-defense programs.
The Republican-controlled House has voted to replace cuts in
defense programs with other spending cuts. Democrats say new
revenue should be used to head off some of the reductions.  Reid told reporters he wants to “move forward and, on
short increments, pay for the sequestration.” Later, Reid said
in an interview that he meant “maybe three months at a time,
six months at a time, a year at a time.”  “There are many low-hanging pieces of fruit out there that
Republicans have said they agreed on previously,” the majority
leader told reporters. “I’m not going to go into detail, but
one of them, of course, is deal with  oil companies .”  President  Barack Obama  has called repeatedly on Congress to
curb tax breaks for oil companies. His most recent budget plan
would raise more than $27 billion over the next decade from
changes to oil and gas tax policy. The proposals include
repealing companies’ ability to deduct certain drilling costs
immediately rather than over several years.  ‘More Likely’  Also today, Deputy Defense Secretary  Ashton Carter  said
“we are serious about being ready” in case automatic defense
cuts of as much as $45 billion start taking effect March 1.  “From what I hear, I have to conclude that it is more
likely than unlikely that we’ll actually have to do this,”
Carter said in an interview at the Pentagon.  In one indication of a spending slowdown, Pentagon
contracts slumped 23 percent in the first three weeks of
January. Defense Department awards fell to $10.1 billion in the
period compared with $13.1 billion during the same weeks in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The spending reductions had been scheduled to start this
month, though Congress enacted a two-month delay as part of the
Jan. 1 legislation that averted the so-called fiscal cliff.  Longer Delay  Congressional Democrats and Vice President  Joe Biden  had
sought a longer delay in the automatic spending cuts during
fiscal negotiations.  “There’s a lot of things we can do out there, and we’re
going to make an effort to make sure” that action on the
spending cuts “involves revenue,” Reid said.  Republicans have said they oppose new revenue beyond the
tax increases in the Jan. 1 legislation.  Senate Democrats will hold their annual retreat Feb. 5-6 in
Annapolis,  Maryland .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  