-- Deutsche Bank Promotes Stefanick, Aslaksen to Lead IBC&A
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-01-29T19:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/deutsche-bank-promotes-aslaksen-stefanick-to-lead-ibc-a.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s largest
lender, named Paul Stefanick and Henrik Aslaksen to co-run the
firm’s global  investment-banking  coverage and advisory business
as the firm looks to expand in the U.S.  The two succeed Jacques Brand, 52, who was chosen to run
all of the bank’s North American operations in November,
according to an internal memo e-mailed to employees today.  Stefanick, 52, who joined Deutsche Bank from Merrill Lynch
in 2009, also will help lead the corporate finance unit in North
America with Mark Fedorcik, according to the memo. Mayura Hooper, a spokeswoman for the Frankfurt-based lender, confirmed
the contents of the memo.  Deutsche Bank’s investment-banking unit is expanding its
reach with the biggest companies in  North America , brokering
deals last year with  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  Kraft
Foods Inc. (KRFT)  and  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  The firm generated 1.82 billion euros
($2.45 billion) from investment banking in the first nine months
of 2012, up 1 percent from the same period a year earlier and 9
percent from 2010.  The mergers-and-acquisitions advisory business has been
taking share from larger competitors. It ranked sixth among
global dealmakers last year with 16.7 percent of the total
market and $371.5 billion in volume, up from ninth place in
2011, with 9.7 percent of the market and $233.7 billion in
volume, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Advises Corporations  John Eydenberg will help Stefanick run the investment-
banking coverage and advisory business in the Americas, which
advises corporations on M&A and when to issue debt or equity.  Stefanick has been running Deutsche Bank’s industrial,
consumer, health care and Latin American investment banking
coverage teams while Aslaksen most recently led mergers and
acquisitions globally and will continue to oversee corporate
finance in Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa.  At Merrill Lynch, Stefanick was chairman of global mergers
and acquisitions. He joined that firm’s M&A group in 1988 and
has advised on merger, acquisition, sale, divestiture, takeover
defense and recapitalization assignments, primarily in
industrials and technology. Aslaksen, 49, also worked for
Merrill and was responsible for M&A in Europe, before joining
Deutsche Bank in 2002.  Fan, Rankin  All of the men will report to Colin Fan and  Robert Rankin ,
who jointly run the broader corporate banking and securities
unit. Fan, 39, and Rankin, 49, both of whom signed today’s memo,
said in September that they want the company to remain among the
top three global investment banks in 2015. They said they expect
the firm to be a “likely winner” of consolidation in the
industry.  Deutsche Bank wants to raise the percentage of corporate
clients for which it’s a top-three bank to 55 percent in 2015
from 33 percent in 2009, Fan and Rankin said in September.  Stefanick received a bachelor’s degree from the University
of  Notre Dame  in 1982 and an MBA from the Wharton School of the
 University of Pennsylvania  in 1988.  “We are delighted to have an executive of Paul’s caliber
join our corporate coverage franchise,” Brand said in 2008,
when Stefanick’s move from Merrill Lynch was announced. “He is
a strong leader and a trusted adviser to CEOs and boards of many
important global clients, particularly in the industrials sector
which is a key area of focus for Deutsche Bank.”  The corporate banking and securities unit generated 14.9
billion euros in net revenues in 2011, about 45 percent of the
 firm’s total  that year. The company, which is scheduled to
report 2012 figures on Jan. 31, said in September that it’s
targeting an after-tax return on equity of about 15 percent at
the investment-bank unit in 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  