-- Dijon Sells Wine Stock as French Economic Slump Hits Budget
-- B y   V i d y a   R o o t
-- 2013-01-29T13:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/dijon-sells-wine-stock-as-french-economic-slump-hits-budget.html
A French town is raiding the wine
cellar to try and plug the gap in its budget.  The eastern city of Dijon, the capital of the Cote-d’Or
department and of the Burgundy region, held a sale on Jan. 27,
auctioning 3,500 bottles of wine -- some of them billed as
“rare and prestigious” -- to pay for emergency social
services.  “The sale of the wine was exceptional in more ways than
one,” the mayor’s office said in a statement on  its website .
“It’s a first for the city” and 80 percent of the receipts
will be used for Dijon’s communal center for social action, or
CCAS, with the rest used to replenish the wine stock, it said.  The auction comes as President  Francois Hollande  works on
shrinking the country’s budget deficit, bringing it down to 3
percent of gross domestic product this year from 4.5 percent
last year. He has called on local governments to tighten their
belts after pledging in November to cut public spending by 60
billion euros ($81 billion) over five years.  Dijon sold half the stock in its wine cellars, raising
151,620 euros ($203,929). The highlight was a bottle of Vosne
Romanee Cros Parentoux premier cru of 1999 produced by Henri Jayer that had a price tag of 1,000 euros. It was sold at 4,800
euros. The auction at the Palais des Ducs de Bourgogne drew
buyers from  France  and overseas, the mayor’s office said.  The sale came against the backdrop of comments from French
Labor Minister Michel Sapin, who on the day of the auction said
in a radio program that France was “totally bankrupt,” setting
off a storm.  ‘Totally Bankrupt’  Asked on Radio J about Former Prime Minister  Francois Fillon ’s comment in September 2007 that France was a “bankrupt
state,” Sapin said, “But it’s a totally bankrupt state,”
adding “that’s the reason we have to put deficit-reductions
programs in place.” The minister immediately took back the
statement, saying he was being “ironic.”  France’s economy is expected to have contracted in the
fourth quarter of 2012 and the first three months of this year
and is set to post no growth in 2013, according to Bloomberg
surveys.  Sapin said he wanted to point out that “there’s a social
and economic emergency,” requiring the government to act
quickly to boost growth and address an  unemployment rate  that’s
at 10.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  