-- Disney Closing ‘Epic Mickey’ Video Game Studio
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-01-29T19:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/disney-closing-epic-mickey-video-game-studio.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  is closing Junction
Point Studios, the maker of the “Epic Mickey” video games, as
the world’s largest media company works to boost results in its
money-losing interactive division.  A spokeswoman for Disney declined to say how many jobs were
eliminated by shuttering the Austin, Texas-based studio.  Disney Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Robert Iger  is
restructuring the company’s interactive  division , which designs
games and websites, and has said it will be profitable in 2013
after six years of losses totaling $1.6 billion.  This month, Burbank, California-based Disney unveiled a new
game platform called Infinity that is designed to reduce some of
the cost in releasing new games. Characters and storylines from
new Disney movies can be added to the Infinity system without
all of the expense of developing games from scratch.  Junction Point, founded by game designer Warren Spector,
designed the 2010 “Epic Mickey” game, a merger of current
video-game technology with classic Disney characters that sold
2.6 million copies. Last year’s sequel, “Epic Mickey 2,” has
sold 529,000, according to market researcher NPD Group.  “It was with much sadness that we informed our teams today
of changes to our games organization, which include the closure
of Junction Point Studios,” Disney said in a statement. “These
changes are part of our ongoing effort to address the fast-
evolving gaming platforms and marketplace and to align resources
against our key priorities.”  The shares  fell  0.7 percent to $53.96 at 2:39 p.m. in  New
York . Disney rose 33 percent last year compared with a 13
percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The cost-cutting comes as sales of games for consoles such
as  Sony Corp.’s (SNE)  PlayStation and  Microsoft Corp.’s (MSFT)  Xbox are in
decline. Video-game software sales fell 23 percent to $6.7
billion in 2012, according to NPD.  Disney once operated six video games studios, three of
which have now been closed in the past three years. The company
added another with the acquisition of Lucasfilm Ltd., which was
completed in December.  The Junction Point closure was first reported by
Forbes.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  