-- DOJ Asks FCC to Defer Action on Softbank-Sprint Merger
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2013-01-30T03:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/doj-asks-fcc-to-defer-action-on-softbank-sprint-merger.html
A U.S.  Justice Department  request to
defer regulatory action on  Softbank Corp. (9984) ’s $20 billion bid for
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  follows criticism that an acquisition could
expose domestic networks to Chinese companies.  The Justice Department, FBI and Department of  Homeland
Security  asked the Federal Communications Commission to give
them time to complete an assessment of the transaction’s
national security and law enforcement implications, according to
a filing posted yesterday on the FCC’s website.  The FCC is due to take comments on the transaction until
Feb. 25 and is about one-third of the way through its informal
 six-month timeline  for considering acquisitions. The Justice
Department’s request is common during reviews triggered when
overseas companies, such as Tokyo-based Softbank, seek control
of a U.S. telecommunications company, said Jeffrey Silva, an
analyst at Medley Global Advisors.  “I wouldn’t look at the DOJ letter as a red flag at all,”
Silva, based in Washington, said in an interview. “It’s routine
given that foreign ownership is involved.”  Softbank said in October it would buy 70 percent of
 Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint. The deal could harm U.S.
security because Softbank works with Chinese phone-equipment
makers whose devices could expose American networks to Chinese
spying, the  Communications Workers of America  said in an FCC
filing Jan. 28.  Softbank,  Japan ’s third-largest mobile-phone company,  rose 
1.5 percent to 3,110 yen as of the midday break in Tokyo trading,
while the nation’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed
1.2 percent. Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier,
rose 8 cents to $5.64 in  New York  yesterday.  Routine Request  Takeaki Nukii, a spokesman for Softbank, declined to
comment, as did Justin Cole, an FCC spokesman.  The Justice Department action is “a routine request,”
 John Taylor , a Sprint spokesman, said in an e-mail. A U.S.
official who requested anonymity to discuss the continuing
review said the request to the FCC isn’t unusual in such
situations.  Softbank’s billionaire founder and President Masayoshi Son
said in an interview in October he knew the deal would be
subjected to scrutiny on national-security grounds.  “I am aware in the U.S., the government is sensitively
looking at it, and we understand national security,” Son said.
“If the U.S. government decides, don’t do it, we would
comply.”  Huawei, ZTE  The communications workers’ union said Softbank is working
with Huawei Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp. (000063) ,  China ’s two largest
phone-equipment makers, to help build a wireless network in
Japan. Softbank’s acquisition of Sprint could lead to
“significant penetration” of Huawei and ZTE into the U.S.
market, the union’s filing said.  A U.S. House Intelligence Committee report released in
October said the U.S. government should block acquisitions or
mergers by Huawei and ZTE, saying the companies provide
opportunities for Chinese intelligence services to tamper with
U.S. telecommunications networks for spying.  “Huawei is not a party to the transaction at hand,”
 William Plummer , a Washington-based spokesman for the company,
said in an e-mail. “Misguided proposals to blackball a company
based on country of origin do nothing to secure networks in an
industry where every vendor leverages common global supply
chains.”  Softbank buys base band units and antenna systems from
Huawei and ZTE for its fourth-generation mobile network in Japan.
Alcatel-Lucent and Ericsson AB provide the core network.  ‘Critical Infrastructure’  The Japanese carrier’s dealings with Huawei and ZTE are
through one of its group subsidiaries, Son said in October.  Executives for Huawei and ZTE, both based in Shenzhen,
China, have denied links to Chinese espionage.  “What we’re talking about is the very heart of our
critical infrastructure,” said Frank Cilluffo, director of
George Washington University’s Homeland Security Policy
Institute.  “It’s only appropriate that questions be asked not only
from a regulatory perspective but also as they pertain to
potential national security considerations,” said Cilluffo, a
former special assistant to President  George W. Bush  for
homeland security.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  