-- Earthworm Health Hurt by Nanoparticles in Soil in Alterra Study
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-29T13:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/earthworm-health-hurt-by-nanoparticles-in-soil-in-alterra-study.html
Nanoparticles, small-scale materials
being developed for uses ranging from sun screen to drug
delivery, were shown to damage the health of  earthworms  in a
study by Dutch research institute Alterra.  Exposure to soil laced with carbon nanoparticles showed a
“significant” effect, including slower  population growth ,
increased mortality and tissue damage, according to a doctorate
 study  by Merel van der Ploeg.  Nanotechnology deals with matter on a scale comparable to
the diameter of a strand of DNA, where materials can work
differently when it comes to things like chemical reactions and
electrical conductivity. Scientists are using those properties
to come up with new cancer treatments, make lighter and stronger
materials, and develop alternative energies.  “We saw an effect on the growth of juveniles, mortality
and population growth,” said Nico van den Brink, co-promoter of
Van der Ploeg’s thesis. “We also saw effects on the integrity
of the skin and intestinal wall, which were eroded.”  The study looked at earthworms because they’re a good
indicator of soil health, according to Van der Ploeg. The worms
hasten decomposition by consuming dead plant material, and their
burrowing helps to aerate soil and admit water, according to the
website of the Natural History Museum in  London .  Highest Dose  The researchers compared the health and growth of
earthworms in soil laced with various concentrations of carbon
and silver nanoparticles with worms in regular soil. Worms that
had the highest dose of 154 milligrams of carbon nanoparticles a
kilogram (2.2 pounds) of soil produced about 40 percent fewer
cocoons than worms in regular soil, the study showed.  “The same characteristics which make nanoparticles useful
in many products, such as chemical reactivity and persistence,
cause concern about their potential adverse health effects,”
Van der Ploeg wrote. “The present thesis demonstrated hazards
of exposure of the earthworm L. rubellus to the nanoparticles.”  A lack of reliable methods to measure nanoparticle levels
in soil means that the study results can’t be translated to
field conditions yet, according to the researcher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  