-- Ecuador Pension Fund Plans $200 Million Bond Sale to Test Market
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2013-01-29T01:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/ecuador-pension-fund-plans-200-million-bond-sale-to-test-market.html
The lending arm of  Ecuador ’s state-
run pension fund plans to sell $200 million of bonds in
international credit markets this year to take advantage of
lower rates, the unit’s chief executive said.  Banco del Instituto Ecuatoriano de Seguridad Social , known
as Biess, is in talks with banks over the debt sale, Chief
Executive Officer Efrain Vieira said today in an interview in
his office in Quito. While the banks are indicating that Biess
could issue bonds at an interest rate of 7 percent to 7.5
percent, Vieira is trying to push them to 6.5 percent, he said.  “There’s a trend toward rates falling,” said Vieira, 48.
“At the end of this year we hope to be able to place at least
$200 million of notes outside of Ecuador.” Biess manages $9.53
billion for the country’s retirees.  Ecuador’s government, which hasn’t issued foreign debt
since defaulting on $3.2 billion in 2008, has relied on funding
from  China , credit from multilateral lenders as well as loans
from Biess to finance spending.  Yields on Ecuador’s 2015 dollar bonds have fallen 95 basis
points, or 0.95 percentage point, to 7.83 percent this year,
according data compiled by Bloomberg. The country is rated B by
 Standard & Poor’s , five levels below investment grade.  Getting a lower rate on the Biess bonds is important
because it might set a precedent for the sovereign to return to
the market, Vieira said.  “We need to agree on a convenient rate for Biess and the
government, because if I fix an international rate, this could
generate unnecessary noise,” he said.  The plans by Biess to issue debt were reported earlier by
Dow Jones Newswires.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in  Quito  at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  