-- Egyptians Protest for Fifth Day, Opposition Spurns Talks
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-01-29T16:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/egyptians-protest-for-fifth-day-opposition-spurns-talks.html
Egypt ’s defense chief warned that
political unrest could bring about the “collapse” of the
state, increasing pressure on President Mohamed Mursi after
almost a week of street battles in which dozens of Egyptians
have died.  Protesters in the Suez Canal province of Port Said -- one
of three areas the president has placed under emergency rule --
vowed a second night of defiance of the overnight curfew. The
unrest built on a refusal by Mursi’s secular opponents to join
in talks to ease the situation.  The conflict between the political forces “and their
disagreement on running the country may lead to the collapse of
the state,” Defense Minister Abdelfatah Al-Seesi was quoted as
saying in a statement posted on the armed forces’ official
Facebook page. The political instability and economic challenges
“represent a real threat to Egypt’s security.”  The unrest has gained momentum since Jan. 25, the second
anniversary of the start of the uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak , leaving at least 50 people dead in the past week. It is
undermining efforts to restore political order and revive an
economy still struggling to recover. The pound has slid 7
percent in the past month, and the government is seeking a $4.8
billion loan from the International Monetary Fund.  White House spokesman Jay Carney today repeated concern
about the situation and urged Egyptians “across the political
spectrum” to resolve their differences peacefully.  Dialogue Rejected  Mursi’s efforts to quell unrest and advance Egypt’s
transition, including decrees that temporarily widened his
powers and support for a constitution drawn up largely by
Islamists and passed in a referendum last month, have only
fueled the discontent.  The opposition, which is largely secular and led by youth
activists, says Mursi has reneged on campaign pledges and is
intent solely on cementing Islamist rule at the expense of the
nation’s interests.  A day after the National Salvation Front, an alliance of
opposition groups, boycotted a national dialogue called by
Mursi, the president appeared to offer a compromise.  The parties involved in last night’s talks -- mostly
Islamists in lock-step with Mursi -- agreed to set up a 10-
member committee to review articles in the charter that have
drawn criticism from secularists and rights advocates. Those
amendments would then be passed to the parliament, after
expected elections later this year, Mursi spokesman Yasser Ali
said in a news conference. The groups were invited to another
round of talks next week, he said.  Taking Responsibility  The president also said the emergency measures declared on
Jan. 27, while necessary, weren’t ones he embraced.  “No reasonable person would think this was directed
against our people in the three canal cities that have always
had a leading role in the history of the Egyptian national
struggle,” Ali quoted Mursi as saying. The measures would be
reviewed next week and possibly lifted if the security situation
permits, he said.  The opposition has demanded Mursi accept responsibility for
the latest deaths and set up a national unity government and a
balanced committee to amend the constitution.  The parties involved in the meeting yesterday agreed it
would be difficult to form such a unity government ahead of the
parliamentary vote, Pakinam El-Sharkawy, one of Mursi’s
presidential advisers, told reporters.  Street Cues  The National Salvation Front “takes its cues from the
street activists, not the other way around,” Hani Sabra, a
Middle East analyst at the New York-based Eurasia Group, said in
an e-mail.  Opposition leaders such as Nobel laureate Mohamed ElBaradei
“fear that meeting with Mursi would compromise their support at
the street level,” he said. “The rift in Egyptian politics is
likely to continue to widen, and the likelihood of more
explosive violence has increased.”  The army, which ran the country between Mubarak’s ouster in
February 2011 and Mursi’s election in June last year, has said
it is taking no sides and is interested only in safeguarding the
nation. It didn’t intervene to enforce the curfew, although Al-
Seesi, the defense minister, reaffirmed in his statement that
the armed forces faced a “serious predicament” in not
interfering in the right to peaceful protest and protecting
state installations.  ‘Leave, Leave’  Al-Seesi assumed his current post after Mursi sidelined
Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, ending a bitter power
struggle with the man who headed the ruling military council
after his former boss was ousted.  In Port Said overnight, thousands chanted “Leave, leave,”
drawing on the vernacular of the 2011 uprising in rallying
against Mursi, who they blame for the deaths there. Some hoisted
what they called an “independence” flag. The military, which
has been deployed in the city as well as in Suez, didn’t
intervene.  The fatalities in Port Said came after death sentences were
handed down against 21 people in connection with last year’s
fatal stadium riot in the city that left more than 70 dead.  In unveiling the 30-day emergency measures, Mursi warned
that attacks on civilians and state installations would be dealt
with firmly. Even so, the demonstrations targeted local
government buildings and police stations in several Nile Delta
towns, the south and in the coastal city of Alexandria, Egypt’s
second-largest.  Unrest also flared in Cairo today as about a dozen people
ransacked a Nile-front five-star hotel that overlooks the scene
of much of the fighting. Crowds later swelled on the Qasr El-Nil
bridge, where the clashes of the past days have been
concentrated.  One person was killed in the capital yesterday. Two others
died in Port Said and more than 240 were injured nationwide in
skirmishes with security forces, the Health Ministry said in a
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  