-- Egypt Stocks Drop Most in World as Currency Weakens Amid Turmoil
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-01-29T15:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/egypt-stocks-drop-most-in-world-amid-turmoil-political-standoff.html
Egyptian shares fell the most in the
world and the nation’s currency and dollar bonds tumbled as
escalating unrest since the second anniversary of the Jan. 25
uprising stoked concern the political crisis may be prolonged.  The North African country’s benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  fell 2
percent, the biggest drop among 93 indexes tracked by Bloomberg,
to 5,495.30 at the close in Cairo. The pound weakend 0.3 percent
to 6.6782 a dollar at 4:30 p.m. in the Egyptian capital, taking
its depreciation in the past month to more than 7 percent,
prices compiled by Bloomberg show.  The equities gauge has retreated 3.4 percent this week as
escalating violence left dozens dead. Egyptian Defense Minister
Abdelfatah Al-Seesi warned of a “collapse of the state” after
the National Salvation Front, a group of secular opposition
parties, refused talks with President Mohamed Mursi, an
Islamist. The yield on the government’s 5.75 percent dollar-
denominated 2020 bonds soared the most in almost two months.  “People are starting to realize we’re not getting closer
to a resolution,” Wafik Dawood, director of institutional sales
at Cairo-based Mega Investments Securities, said by phone.
“There’s real concern now about the implications the clashes
have on the International Monetary Fund deal and currency.”  After defying a curfew last night, protesters in the Suez
Canal province of Port Said -- one of three areas the president
has placed under emergency rule -- vowed today to continue
rejecting the measure imposed by Mursi to quell the unrest.  Reserves Drop  The country is due to receive an IMF delegation this month
to finalize a $4.8 billion loan agreement that’s been stalled by
political unrest since an initial agreement was signed in
November.  The pound has weakened the most among emerging-market
currencies since the central bank started foreign-exchange
auctions on Dec. 30 to limit banks’ access to dollars. The
central bank curbed the pound’s decline in the previous two
years to 6.2 percent.  Net international reserves  have tumbled by
almost 60 percent during the period to $15 billion in December,
a level the regulator called “critical.”  “It’s becoming more apparent that the central bank’s
capacity for defending the pound is becoming limited as reserves
continue to fall,”  Mona Mansour , chief economist at Cairo-based
CI Capital Holding, said by phone. “If unrest persists we’re
sure to see the pound decline even further.”  The yield on the 2020 bonds has jumped 29 basis points, or
0.29 percentage point, since unrest started on the Jan. 25
anniversary of the revolt that toppled  Hosni Mubarak . It climbed
15 basis points today to 5.85 percent, set for the highest level
on a closing basis in more than three weeks.  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI) , the country’s
biggest publicly traded lender, slumped 5.3 percent, the most
since Dec. 6, while  Talaat Moustafa Group (TMGH)  Holding retreated to a
seven-week low.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  