-- Eksportfinans Says Investor Won’t Prevail on Japan Default Claim
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2013-01-29T09:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/eksportfinans-says-investor-won-t-prevail-on-japan-default-claim.html
Eksportfinans ASA said it’s
confident in contesting a default claim by Silver Point Capital
on its Japanese bonds after Moody’s Investors Services
downgraded the company further into junk territory.  Eksportfinans will “vigorously resist the claim on the
basis that there is no default, and the company is therefore of
the opinion that this complaint will not prevail,” the Oslo-
based company said today in a statement.  Moody’s yesterday downgraded the company’s senior debt
ratings to Ba3 from Ba1, citing the demand for payment from an
investor in Japanese bonds. Moody’s kept a negative outlook.  “This event highlights the continued significant risk that
Eksportfinans faces if a successful declaration of default
occurs, which could trigger an early repayment of some or all of
its obligations,” Moody’s said.  Silver Point filed a complaint in a Japanese court
demanding 400 million yen ($4.4 million), based on an allegation
that the Norwegian lender defaulted on its Samurai bonds. The
complaint was sent to the Tokyo District Court by Silver Point
Capital Fund LP and Silver Point Capital Offshore Master Fund
LP, and forms part of a total claim of 8.6 billion yen,
according to Eksportfinans. The lender is being wound down after
the Norwegian government withdrew its support.  Eksportfinans was downgraded to junk at Standard & Poor’s
and Moody’s Investors Service in 2011 after the Norwegian
government opted to set up a new export financing program to
replace the 50-year-old lender. The decision roiled investors
holding its $39 billion in bonds as far afield as  Japan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  