-- Emerging Stocks Rise on China Bull Market as Egypt Slides
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-29T22:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/emerging-stocks-snap-four-day-slide-as-korean-shares-rebound.html
Emerging-market equities rallied for
the first time in five days as  China ’s main index entered a  bull
market  on signs of an Asian economic recovery. Egyptian shares
plunged as political talks broke down.  Haitong Securities Co. (600837) , China’s second-biggest listed
brokerage, jumped 7.3 percent, helping the Shanghai Composite
Index climb more than 20 percent from a Dec. 3 low.  Braskem SA (BRKM5) 
led gains on the MSCI Emerging Market Latin America Index, which
added 1 percent. Indian bond yields declined as the central bank
cut key  interest rates  and shekel weakened after Bank of Israel
Governor  Stanley Fischer  said he will step down.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.7 percent to
1,069.88 in  New York , rebounding from a four-week low, and the
 iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded fund climbed
the most since Jan. 2. South Korean manufacturers’ confidence
rose for a second month, data today showed, while a Jan. 27
report showed profits for Chinese industrial companies gained
for a fourth month in December.  “China is maturing much faster than any of us could
possibly have anticipated, and it’s a very exciting place to
be,” Donald Gimbel, senior managing director of Carret Asset
Management LLC, which oversees about $1.5 billion, said by phone
from Champagne,  Illinois . “The nay-sayers are beginning to come
around.”  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  ETF rose 1.1 percent to
$44.34 in New York. The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, fell for the first time
in four days, dropping 0.8 percent to 18.05.  Brazilian Pulpmakers  Braskem, Latin America’s largest petrochemical maker,
jumped 5.2 percent to its highest close in four months. Brazil’s
 Bovespa index  added 0.6 percent as speculation a stronger real
will help curb inflation boosted consumer stocks.  Brazil’s two largest pulpmakers declined in  Sao Paulo , with
 Suzano Papel e Celulose SA  sliding 3.8 percent and  Fibria
Celulose SA (FIBR3)  losing 1 percent. Mexico’s IPC Index was little
changed, while Argentina’s  Merval Index (MERVAL)  climbed 3.8 percent to
the highest level since July 2011.  Confidence among U.S. consumers declined more than forecast
in January, reaching the lowest level in more than a year as
higher payroll taxes took a bigger bite out of Americans’
paychecks, data today showed. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of
property values rose in November from a year earlier by the most
in more than six years, indicating the U.S. housing rebound is
gaining ground.  Chinese ADRs  South Korea’s Kospi  index  gained 0.8 percent, the most
since January 2. The Shanghai Composite climbed 0.5 percent,
extending its advance since Dec. 3 to the threshold signaling a
bull market to some investors. The Philippine Stock Exchange
Index added 0.7 percent to a record close.  Chinese stocks traded in the U.S. also rallied, with the
 Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  jumping 0.9 percent in a second
day of gains. American depositary receipts of Beijing-based
electricity producer Huaneng Power International Inc. climbed
3.4 percent to a five-year high.  South Africa’s  FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index (JALSH)  also rose
to a record in Johannesburg as a year-to-date rout in the rand
boosted shares in mining companies that generate sales in
dollars but pay for costs in South African currency. The rand
gained 0.8 percent against the dollar, trimming its yearly slide
to 6.6 percent.  Talks Rejected  Egypt ’s benchmark EGX 30 sank 2 percent, the most among
benchmark indexes worldwide, after the country’s main opposition
bloc rejected talks with President Mohamed Mursi, indicating the
political crisis may be prolonged.  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose 0.8 percent in Moscow during the
day as oil, the nation’s biggest export earner, surged to a
four-month high in New York. The Istanbul Stock Exchange
National 100 Index added 1.2 percent, the most in two weeks. The
Czech Republic’s  PX index  gained 0.7 percent, the biggest jump
in four weeks.  Israel’s benchmark bond yields rose to the highest level in
two months in  Tel Aviv , while the shekel lost 0.1 percent versus
the dollar after Fischer’s resignation. A former Citigroup Inc.
vice-chairman and International Monetary Fund executive, Fischer
helped Israel’s economy recover from the global financial crisis
while keeping inflation in check. The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity
Index (ISRA25BN)  slid 0.3 percent to 85.11.  Hungarian Yields  Yields on  India ’s 10-year bond fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 7.85 percent. The  Reserve Bank  of
India reduced the nation’s repurchase rate today to 7.75 percent
from 8 percent.  Yields on Hungarian three-year bonds slid nine basis points
to 5.48 percent, the lowest level since May 2010, after policy
makers cut the main interest rate for a sixth month. The
Hungarian forint strengthened 0.6 percent versus the euro,
halting its longest losing streak in eight months.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points to 254 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA , Poland’s
biggest gas distributor, lost 1.6 percent in Warsaw after Wood &
Co. downgraded the stock to sell and Parkiet newspaper reported
Poland’s antitrust regulator is probing the company’s natural-
gas sales contracts.  OAO Aeroflot, Russia’s biggest airline carrier,  sank  3.2
percent, the first decline in nine days, after Vedomosti
newspaper reported that the company may delay a secondary public
offering, citing a company official that it didn’t identify.  Tech Jump  Gauges of technology stocks and consumer discretionary
companies advanced at least 1.7 percent, the most among 10
industry groups in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)  The broader
measure has added 1.4 percent this year, trailing a 5.4 percent
increase in the MSCI World Index. The developing-nations gauge
trades for 11 times estimated profit, compared with the MSCI
World’s multiple of 13.7, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , South Korea’s second-largest carmaker,
surged 5.1 percent from its lowest level since November 2010,
snapping a four-day slump.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  rose 4 percent, in
its first advance in four days.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the world’s
largest lender by market value, slid 2.2 percent in  Hong Kong 
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. sold a stake in the lender at a
discount. The shares were sold at HK$5.77 each, 3 percent lower
than the Chinese bank’s HK$5.95 closing price in Hong Kong
yesterday, Goldman said, without disclosing the number of
shares.  Cheil Worldwide Inc. (030000) , a South Korean advertising company,
jumped 7.4 percent in  Seoul , the biggest gainer in the MSCI
emerging-markets measure. The company said yesterday it’s
seeking to buy back shares between Jan. 30 and April 29,
according to a regulatory filing.  Unitech Ltd., an Indian developer, dropped 6 percent in
Mumbai, the most since Jan. 24, to become the worst performer on
the emerging-markets index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  