-- Emergency U.S. Radio Plan Ignoring Concerns of Suppliers
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-01-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/emergency-u-s-radio-plan-ignoring-concerns-of-suppliers.html
Officials preparing to spend $7
billion to build a U.S. emergency-services radio network aren’t
listening to companies with expertise, according to executives
who met yesterday to air complaints about the program.  The First Responder Network Authority, created by Congress
last year to oversee the national network, hasn’t made clear how
it plans to proceed, speakers said at a meeting in Washington
convened by  Textron Inc. (TXT) , which wants to manage construction,
and  Harris Corp. (HRS) , which may sell gear to the network.  “We are concerned that there has been something of a cone
of silence dropped around the process,” said Brian Hendricks,
global head of technology policy for telephone-equipment maker
Nokia Siemens Networks.  Meetings are “hard to come by,” he said. “It leaves most
of us with the sense that we’re sort of fumbling around in the
dark for the light switch, and that is a concern.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration in August  appointed 
12 members to the board that runs the authority, known as
FirstNet. The chairman is Sam Ginn, a senior adviser to New
York-based investment bank Greenhill & Co. and former chairman
of Vodafone AirTouch Plc, now  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   “Our immediate priority is to reach out to the public-
safety community -- state, local governments and tribes -- to
better understand their unique needs and challenges,”  Jeffrey
Johnson , a board member and retired Oregon fire chief, said in a
statement.  Reaching Out  The board needs to focus on what users say before
“reaching out to the vendor community,” Johnson said. Broader
contacts with vendors will begin in the second quarter of this
year, he said.  FirstNet was set up to develop a communication network to
improve the ability of police, firefighters and other emergency
workers to communicate with one another.  “It seems FirstNet has kind of shut themselves off,” said
Donald Hairston, a senior vice president of Providence, Rhode
Island-based Textron. “How do you build systems if you don’t
talk to your users?”  Law enforcement officials don’t know what’s happening with
the network,  Tom Stone , a former police chief, said during
yesterday’s meeting. Stone is executive director of the
nonprofit FBI-Law Enforcement Executive Development Association
in Malvern,  Pennsylvania .  “They’ve not been asked for input,” Stone said. “There’s
a big disconnect.”  Congress in February passed legislation calling for the
Federal Communications Commission to sell some frequencies to
wireless telephone carriers, with $7 billion from the proceeds
to help pay for the nationwide emergency-services network.  The measure also allocated airwaves for the system,
fulfilling a recommendation of the 9/11 Commission that
investigated the 2001 terrorist attacks in  New York  and
Washington, when police and firefighters had trouble
communicating by radio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  