-- Emirates Bond After Dubai Signals Corporate Allure: Arab Credit
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-01-29T08:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/emirates-bond-after-dubai-signals-corporate-allure-arab-credit.html
Dubai companies are set to pick up
the pace of bond sales to profit from lower borrowing costs
after yields plunged last week at an offering by the sheikhdom,
according to the United Arab Emirates’ biggest bank.  Sales by Dubai-based entities are likely to surpass last
year’s $6.95 billion, according to Mohammad Kamran Wajid, head
of  Emirates NBD (EMIRATES)  PJSC’s investment banking unit. The government
lowered its costs by 40 percent when it sold 10-year Islamic
bonds on Jan. 22, while also raising debut 30-year debt.
Emirates, the world’s largest airline by international traffic,
and Dubai Electricity & Water Authority will probably follow the
government’s lead, Wajid said.  “Every entity that has been to the market before will be
there in the market” this year, Wajid, chief executive officer
of Emirates NBD Capital Ltd., said in a Jan. 27 interview. “All
major debt restructurings are more or less done, the Dubai
growth story has always been there and there’s a lot of
confidence now in Dubai on the debt-management side.”  Dubai companies are coming to the market after the city’s
credit risk tumbled more than Middle East peers in the past
year. Government-controlled Emirates NBD has nine mandates for
sukuk and bond sales, including issuers in the region, Asia and
 Turkey , which may raise $5 billion in total, Wajid said.  Sales Pipeline  Interest in Dubai’s debt has heightened after economic
growth accelerated to an estimated 4.3 percent in 2012, a five-
year high, and the real estate industry recovered from one of
the world’s worst property-market crashes. Issuers in Dubai, one
of seven emirates that make up the U.A.E., will take advantage
of lower yields to boost cash, diversify their investor base and
find alternatives to bank lending, Wajid said.  Credit default swaps for the city, which is home to the
world’s tallest skyscraper, dropped by more than half in the
past year to 210 basis points on Jan. 25, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The
average for Middle East contracts fell 78 basis points, or 0.78
percentage point, to 248 in the same period. Dubai’s swaps were
little changed yesterday.  Emirates NBD helped arrange seven bond sales in the six-
nation Gulf Cooperation Council in 2012, making it the 15th
biggest underwriter, data compiled by Bloomberg show. So far
this year, it’s taken part in the Dubai government’s two sales,
and is among six banks mandated by Emirates, which started an
investor roadshow yesterday for its first bond issuance since
June 2011.  Lower Returns  “Bonds and sukuk are now becoming the name of the game and
issuers should take advantage of this investor class,” Wajid
said.  Tapping bond markets is an alternative amid regulatory
pressure on banks to reduce their exposure to government-linked
issuers, he said. Bank lending in the U.A.E. rose 2.8 percent in
the year to October, less than a fifth the rate of growth in
Saudi Arabia, according to central bank data. Selling bonds will
“help everyone diversify the funding base and access an
alternative investor class,” he said.  Still, Abdul Kadir Hussain, the GCC’s best-performing
fixed-income fund manager, said last month returns in the oil-
exporting region may drop by about half in 2013 after a three-
year rally drove yields to record lows. Bond yields have started
climbing from records this month, with that on Dubai’s 5.591
percent securities due in June 2021 advancing 20 basis points in
the past five days to 3.97 percent at 12:06 p.m. in Dubai.  Outside Dubai  Emirates’ 2016 notes also fell in that period, taking the
yield up 12 basis points to 3.13 percent. Dubai Electricity &
Water’s 2020 securities yielded 3.81 percent today, up 17 basis
points in the past four days.  The state-owned utility, known as Dewa, may sell Islamic
bonds or sukuk this quarter to help repay debt and fund
investments, Chief Executive Officer Saeed Mohammed Al Tayer
said earlier this month. Even after the past week’s advance, the
yield on Dewa’s notes is still poised for the eighth straight
monthly drop.  Pursuing bond sale mandates outside of Dubai will help
Emirates NBD diversify its business, Wajid said. The lender last
month agreed to buy BNP Paribas SA’s Egyptian unit in a $500
million deal, following  Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK)  into the most-
populous Arab country.  The bank wants to boost revenue from global business to 20
percent of its total over the next three to five years, from 5
percent currently, Giel-Jan Van Der Tol, general manager for
wholesale banking, said in November. Last month, Emirates NBD
listed Turkey, South East Asia and South Asia as target markets.  In addition to debt sales, Emirates NBD Capital has four
mandates to advise on mergers and acquisitions, including one
from a Saudi Arabian company looking for an acquisition in Asia,
Wajid said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  