-- Empire State Building Investors Seek to Block Settlement
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-01-29T18:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/empire-state-building-investors-seek-to-block-settlement.html
A group of investors in the company
that controls the  Empire State Building  sought to block a
settlement which would allow the iconic  New York  skyscraper to
be included in a real estate investment trust.  Empire State Realty Trust Inc. (ESB) , which has applied to become
a REIT, agreed in September to pay $55 million to investors who
sued claiming the company and Malkin Holdings LLC, the
supervisor of the company that holds the title to the tower,
breached their fiduciary duties.  Malkin Holdings proposed to consolidate Empire State
Building Associates LLC and 20 other properties in a $5 billion
transaction creating the real estate investment trust, which
would offer its stock to the public in an initial public
offering, according to the complaint, filed yesterday in New
York state court in  Manhattan .  “The proposed settlement -- just $55 million -- amounts to
barely one percent of the value of the roll-up,” Stephen B.
Meister, an attorney for the dissident investors, said in the
filing. “The settlement is both grossly inadequate and unfairly
apportioned.”  Helmsley Estate  Malkin Holdings supervises property partnerships led by
 Peter Malkin  and his son Anthony Malkin. It owns the 2.9
million-square-foot (269,000-square-meter) Empire State Building
in conjunction with the estate of  Leona Helmsley .  Empire State Realty Trust said on Feb. 13 that it planned
to raise as much as $1 billion in the IPO, giving investors a
chance to own a piece of the landmark 102-story Manhattan
skyscraper.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said on Dec. 26
a vote on the plan could go ahead, with about 2,800 co-investors
in the tower being allowed to cast a ballot.  The dissident investors said they’re being forced to trade
low-risk bond-like securities for high-risk equity securities
and their iconic brand is being confiscated.  The group urged the judge to decline to approve the
settlement, certify the dissident investors as a sub-class in
the lawsuit and allow it to file a separate lawsuit.  A Malkin Holdings spokeswoman,  Brandy Bergman , said the
lawsuit isn’t a setback for the IPO.  “This is a complicated transaction with lots of moving
pieces and nothing which has happened has taken us by
surprise,” she said in an e-mail. “Any comment we make will be
to our investors, which will be filed with the SEC and
ultimately will be made public.”  The case is In re Empire State Realty Trust Inc.
650607/2012.  Supreme Court  of the State of New York, New York
County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  