-- Empire State Building REIT Said to End Archaic Structure
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-01-29T17:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/empire-state-building-reit-said-to-end-archaic-structure.html
A plan to put the Empire State
Building into a real estate investment trust will provide
simpler management and better access to capital, said Anthony Malkin, president of the company that controls the tower.  The current ownership is “a very inefficient, archaic
structure, mostly established by my grandfather for tax
purposes,” Malkin said in an interview today on Bloomberg
Television’s “In The Loop” with  Betty Liu . “It was a way to
avoid double taxation and providing a shield from liability for
the small investor.”  Malkin is seeking the votes of more than 2,700 investors in
the Empire State Building in a solicitation that began last week
as he aims to form the REIT and take it public. Some
beneficiaries of the company that owns the skyscraper have
mounted a campaign to oppose the plan, claiming it shortchanges
them. Malkin, in his first public comments about the proposed
initial public offering, said today that many of the arguments
put forth by two dissidents, cousins Richard and Steve Edelman,
are “lies and deceptions.”  A separate group of Empire State Building co-investors
today filed a lawsuit in  New York  State Supreme Court to block a
$55 million settlement reached with another set of holders.
Stephen Meister, attorney for the plaintiffs, said in the filing
that the settlement is “grossly inadequate and unfairly
apportioned.”  Malkin declined to comment on the lawsuit after the
television interview.  A spokeswoman,  Brandy Bergman , said the lawsuit isn’t a
setback for the IPO.  ‘Complicated Transaction’  “This is a complicated transaction with lots of moving
pieces and nothing which has happened has taken us by
surprise,” she said in an e-mail. “Any comment we make will be
to our investors, which will be filed with the SEC and
ultimately will be made public.”  Richard Edelman operates a website critical of the
offering. The information in his communications with investors
is based directly on the Malkins’ filings with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, he said in an e-mail today.  “This is a wonderful deal only if your name is Malkin or
Helmsley,” he said.  Steve Edelman, who has conducted conference calls with
investors, said he couldn’t immediately address Malkin’s
comments.  Among the claims Richard Edelman has made is that
representatives of the Malkins have misrepresented their  voting
rights  by telling them that only a yes vote would guarantee that
they keep the value of their shares. Malkin, in a Jan. 25
letter, told unitholders that was deceptive.  Richard Edelman is “not being truthful with our
investors,” Bergman said. “Our documents are the fact set to
which our investors should look for their information to assist
them in making their decisions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  