-- Encana Deal Odds Increase As CEO Departs: Real M&A
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-01-29T21:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/encana-deal-odds-increase-as-ceo-departs-real-m-a.html
Encana Corp. (ECA)  is poised to attract
suitors after the departure of its chief executive officer,
whose bet on natural gas wiped out a third of the Canadian
explorer’s value.  Randy Eresman, who retired this month after seven years as
CEO, transformed the Calgary-based company into a producer
focused on gas by spinning off its oil assets in 2009. The plan
backfired as gas prices fell to a decade low, sending shares of
 Canada ’s largest natural gas producer down almost 40 percent by
the day he left. It was the biggest drop of any Canadian energy
company of its size, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While regulatory issues and existing joint ventures could
complicate a deal, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce said
Eresman’s exit increases the odds of a sale of the $14.3 billion
producer to an integrated  oil company . Even as gas prices remain
depressed, Encana’s gas-rich formations in Canada and the U.S.
may appeal to companies looking to export the fuel to  Asia ,
according to Veritas Investment Research Corp.  China ’s demand
for natural gas may more than double by 2017 from 2011 levels,
the  International Energy Agency   forecast  in June.  Eresman’s departure “makes it more vulnerable” to a
takeover, Daniel Cheng, a  money manager  at Matco Financial Inc.
in Calgary, who helps oversee C$375 million ($373 million),
including Encana shares, said in a telephone interview. “The
stock price being depressed would certainly make it attractive
on a relative basis. They have significant, interesting assets
in a number of great plays.”  Stepping Down  Jay Averill, a spokesman for Encana, said the company
hasn’t received any offers “to my knowledge” and isn’t seeking
a sale.  “You have a board that has publicly stated that they’re
not interested in that conversation at this point,” Averill
said in a phone interview yesterday.  Encana announced Eresman’s retirement after the close of
trading Jan. 11, saying he would step down immediately after
more than three decades at the company. Clayton Woitas, a board
member, is standing in as interim CEO until a permanent
replacement is found.  By spinning off the oil assets to form  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE) ,
Eresman reduced Encana from a diversified company with oil sands
reserves to a producer focused on gas. Plunging gas prices have
since resulted in losses in six of the past 10 quarters.  ‘Dog’ Holding  “It’s a core holding in most people’s Canadian equity
portfolios and, to be frank, it’s been a dog,”  John Stephenson ,
who helps manage C$2.7 billion, including Encana shares, at
First Asset Investment Management Inc. in Toronto, said in a
phone interview.  The  stock fell  39 percent from the time Cenovus began
trading in November 2009 through Jan. 11, when Eresman stepped
down. That was a steeper decline than any other Canadian
exploration and production company with a market value greater
than $5 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Today, Encana shares rose 0.7 percent to C$19.68.  Encana’s  enterprise value  is 42 times its daily production,
expressed in thousands of barrels of oil equivalent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the lowest among its peers,
the data show. The company also trades at a below-average
multiple to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization.  “You don’t have leadership, and you have a low share
price,” Sam La Bell, an analyst at Veritas in Toronto, said in
a phone interview. “Those together make you a target because
the acquirer might think you can put in better management and
create more value than you’re offering shareholders currently.”  Gas Holdings  Woitas, the interim CEO, said this month that Encana is
“not for sale” and will continue seeking joint ventures to
develop assets and diversify away from gas into fossil-fuel
liquids including oil, which fetch higher prices.  Still, Encana could prove to be among the “many examples”
of companies that appoint interim CEOs only to be later
acquired, Andrew Potter, a research analyst at CIBC in Calgary,
said in a Jan. 13 note.  Encana’s “vast feedstock” of gas acreage in Western
Canada’s Montney, Duvernay and Horn River formations and the
Haynesville formation in  Louisiana  may be attractive to
companies seeking to chill and liquefy the fuel for export by
tankers from proposed facilities along Canada’s western coast
and the U.S. Gulf Coast, Potter wrote.  Gas consumption is set to rise in Asia, where India and
China are investing in facilities that can receive imports of
liquefied natural gas, or LNG, for domestic use, according to
the  International Energy Agency .  Likely Bidders  The most likely bidder for Encana would be a publicly
traded U.S. or global oil company, according to Potter, who puts
the odds of an Encana takeover at as much as 40 percent.  Chinese state oil companies also may pursue Encana for its
gas reserves and expertise in unlocking the fuel from shale
rock, said First Asset’s Stephenson.  PetroChina Co. (857) , the publicly traded arm of China’s largest
energy producer, state-owned China National Petroleum Corp., may
be among bidders, Stephenson said. China Petrochemical Corp., or
Sinopec Group as the parent of China’s largest refiner is known,
may also be interested, he said.  PetroChina already has a relationship with Encana, through
its C$1.18 billion joint venture on the company’s Duvernay
lands. Sinopec is also active in Canada through its takeover of
Daylight Energy Ltd. in 2011.  Government Hurdle  Shirley Lo, a spokeswoman for PetroChina who works for Hill
& Knowlton Strategies, said the company declined to comment on
any potential interest in Encana. A phone call to Lv Dapeng,
Sinopec’s Beijing-based spokesman, wasn’t answered.  While Encana could attract suitors among state-owned Asian
companies or other energy producers, Stephenson put the chances
of a takeover at no more than 30 percent. That’s because a bid
for Encana would be challenged by a stringent review under
Canada’s foreign-takeover law, he said.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  announced changes to takeover
guidelines through the Investment Canada Act in December, when
he approved Chinese state-owned Cnooc Ltd.’s $15.1 billion
takeover of Nexen Inc.  Harper prohibited further oil-sands takeovers by state-
controlled companies, leaving the door open to gas acquisitions.
Still, Encana’s vast holdings include lands on which the company
doesn’t have to pay royalties on production, and that would
probably cause the government to reject a bid, Stephenson said.  Many Ventures  “You get into a review process and would get the public up
in arms,” Stephenson said. “No one cared at all about Nexen,
but Encana is a different story.”  A takeover of Encana may also be complicated by its
multibillion-dollar  joint ventures  signed in recent years with
state-owned and public companies including PetroChina, Korea Gas
Corp., Mitsubishi Corp. and Toyota Tsusho Corp.  The web of partnerships “makes the company that much more
complex from a takeover perspective,” Kyle Preston, an analyst
at National Bank Financial in Calgary, said in a phone
interview.  Still, with Encana lagging behind its peers and its
leadership in flux, the door is open for a potential deal, said
 Todd Lowenstein , who helps manage $17 billion in assets at
HighMark Capital Management Inc. in  Los Angeles .  “One could argue that Encana has not performed in line
with the group and has to answer to shareholders,” Lowenstein
said in a phone interview. As a result, Encana is “vulnerable
to some outside interest looking under the hood and seeing
what’s there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  