-- English Soccer Must Modernize Governance, Minister Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-29T09:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/english-soccer-must-modernize-governance-minister-says.html
The governance of English soccer
must modernize and improve by the start of next season or the
U.K. government will legislate to force change, Sports Minister
Hugh Robertson said.  He was responding to a report from Parliament’s cross-party
 Culture, Media and Sport Committee  published in London today
that concluded that the Football Association, English soccer’s
governing body, is in need of “urgent reform” after failing to
follow previous suggestions the panel made in July 2011.  In its report, the panel said the country’s professional
leagues, especially the Premier League, have too great an
influence over the decision-making processes of the F.A.
Increasing commercialization, coupled with a lack of financial
regulation, is leading to “significant financial risk-taking
among football clubs that threatens the game” the lawmakers
found.  The government should “make it clear to the football
authorities that further progress on these issues is expected
within 12 months,” the panel’s chairman  John Whittingdale , a
member of Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s  Conservative Party ,
said in an e-mailed statement. “If football cannot reform
itself, the government should introduce legislation as soon as
practically possible.”  The government, meanwhile, wants the F.A. to carry out some
changes it has pledged to make to an earlier timeline -- by
August, when the season starts in  England .  ‘Financial Transparency’  “We have been clear that we want the football authorities
to carry out the reforms they promised by the start of the 2013-
14 season -- most notably around improved governance and diverse
representation at the F.A., the development of a licensing
system and greater financial transparency,” Robertson said in
an e-mail. “If football does not deliver then we will look at
bringing forward legislation.”  The committee said it was “very disappointed” by the
soccer authorities’ response to the proposals for change it made
in 2011. The panel has proposed shaking up how the F.A. operates
and making clubs adhere to financial rules, regulated by a
licensing system, to prevent financial risk-taking.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  