-- Herbalife Registers ’The Real Bill Ackman’ Website Name
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-01-30T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/herbalife-registers-the-real-bill-ackman-website-name.html
Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) , the nutrition
company that hedge-fund manager  Bill Ackman  has called a pyramid
scheme, has registered several domain names that include the
activist investor’s name.  Domain names such as therealbillackman.com and
billackman.net were acquired by Herbalife as of Jan. 18,
according to www.domainsearch.com. The websites are blank.  Herbalife has been battling accusations from Ackman,
founder of New York hedge fund  Pershing Square  Capital
Management LP, that it uses inflated pricing, misleading sales
information and a complicated incentive structure to hide a
pyramid scheme. The company this month held an investor meeting
to defend its direct-selling model and said Ackman had grossly
mischaracterized its business.  Ackman quickly took issue with the Herbalife domain names.  “What legitimate company would do something like that,”
he said yesterday in a telephone interview. “The spotlight is
on Herbalife and they are doing everything they can do to turn
it away.”  Ackman has his own website: factsaboutherbalife.com.  Barbara Henderson, a spokeswoman for Herbalife, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  The debate over Herbalife has also sparked rare public
disputes among high-profile investors. Last week, Ackman and
investor  Carl Icahn  sparred on CNBC about the company and past
dealings with each other. Icahn later said on Bloomberg
Television that he didn’t “like” or “respect” Ackman.  Loeb Bet  Ackman’s shorting of Herbalife was countered by fellow
hedge-fund manager  Daniel Loeb . On Jan. 9, three weeks after
Ackman disclosed his bet against Herbalife, Loeb’s Third Point
LLC disclosed that its  hedge funds  held 8.9 million shares of
Herbalife at year-end.  Herbalife’s shares have rebounded since Ackman first made
his comments. They fell 3.4 percent to $38.67 yesterday in New
York, up from a low of $26.06 after Ackman’s presentation.  Ackman said last month that Pershing Square is short more
than 20 million shares, which was about 97 percent of the 20.7
million short interest shares outstanding at the time.     .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  