-- Mercator Posts Full-Year Loss as Recession Stalls Demand
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-01-29T17:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/mercator-posts-full-year-loss-as-recession-stalls-demand.html
Mercator Poslovni Sistem d.d. 
reported its first full-year loss in fifteen years as the
largest supermarket chain’s sales in the Balkans last year
suffered during the recession.  The 2012 net loss was 104 million euros ($140.2 million),
the first since 1997, compared with net income of 21 million
euros a year earlier, the Ljubljana-based retailer said in a
report distributed at its headquarters in the Slovenian capital,
 Ljubljana , today. Revenue was little changed from 2011 at 2.87
billion euros.  “The macroeconomic situation in the region is very
demanding,” Chief Executive Officer Toni Balazic told reporters
today. “Competition in the region is increasing and the fight
for consumers intensifies.”  The Slovenian retailer, which has been expanding in the
Balkans to increase sales, has been hit by the economic downturn
in Slovenia, Croatia and  Serbia  as consumers spend less and the
jobless rates in the region rise.  Mercator’s  owners , including Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d.,
formed a consortium in December to try and sell a majority of
the company again after Croatian rival Agrokor d.d. pulled out
of the process a year ago.  Impairment Charges  “The new management board decided to book huge impairment
charges, mostly against the value of real estate and probably
past acquisitions,” Jernej Kozlevcar, who helps manage 480
million euros at Triglav Asset Management Co. in Ljubljana, said
in an e-mail after the report.  The loss represents “a lot of money for the company” and
“it will be interesting to see the market reaction tomorrow,
especially because share price in recent days gained some
momentum,” Kozlevcar wrote.  Mercator (MELR)  was little changed in Ljubljana today, closing at
140 euros after climbing 3.7 percent yesterday. That gives the
company a market value of 527 million euros. The stock has
advanced 23 percent from the start of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  