-- Here We Go Again, Underpricing Europe Debt Risk
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   S p i r o
-- 2013-01-29T23:35:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/here-we-go-again-underpricing-europe-debt-risk.html
Over the past six months, market
sentiment toward the euro area has swung spectacularly from
panic to growing confidence.  Greece is the most conspicuous example, as fears about its
possible exit from the single-currency area faded. But Spain and
Italy, the twin bellwethers of sentiment on Europe, show how
markets are underpricing sovereign risk -- again.  If the euro-area crisis taught us anything, surely it is
the importance of distinguishing between the creditworthiness of
different economies. Lest we forget, it was the decade-long
“convergence play” that laid the  foundations  for Europe’s debt
crisis. Yield-hungry investors bet that Europe’s monetary union
would result in the borrowing costs of member countries
converging to that of the strongest, Germany. I fear that
history may now be repeating itself.  The very idea now seems absurd. Investors have just
witnessed decades of European financial integration unravel
before their eyes, so surely they wouldn’t make the same mistake
again? Yet markets have short memories, particularly when
exceptionally low interest rates make the lure of higher-
yielding investments irresistible.  This week, Italy sold 8.5 billion euros ($11.5 billion) of
six-month treasury bills at 0.731 percent, the cheapest yields
in three years. Demand for a new Spanish 10-year syndicated bond
offering on Jan. 22 reached a staggering 23 billion euros, far
exceeding the 7 billion euros-worth of bonds on offer.  Draghi Rescue  Even a cursory glance at the economic fundamentals of Spain
and Italy suggests that the rally in their sovereign-bond
markets is way overdone. Since European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi pledged in July to do “whatever it takes” to
shore up the euro area, the yield on Spanish two-year bonds has
tumbled more than four percentage points. Even the yield on
Spain’s benchmark 10-year debt, which the ECB has excluded from
its (as-yet-unused) program to purchase government bonds, has
fallen 2 1/2 percentage points. The yield on Italy’s 10-year
benchmark has dropped by almost the same amount.  These drastic reductions in yields are partly justified,
stemming from the near-elimination of the so-called breakup
premium that many euro-area governments were paying to borrow
money in the sovereign-bond markets. The premium referred to
that part of the spreads between German and other euro-area
sovereign-bond yields that was solely attributable to fears
about the currency zone falling  apart . Borrowing costs for
countries such as Spain and Italy were bound to fall sharply
once fears of a breakup disappeared.  Yet relief that the euro area isn’t about to implode
doesn’t explain the confidence in its third- and fourth-largest
economies that current bond yields imply.  In their haste to reprice Italian and Spanish debt,
investors have taken their eyes off the sovereign component in
sovereign risk -- just as they did before the crisis struck and,
for that matter, before the start of the euro, when divergences
between southern and northern Europe’s economies were already
apparent.  The two countries are in a far worse state economically and
politically than they were in December 2010, yet their 10-year
bond yields are narrower now than they were then. The difference
can’t be explained by the removal of the euro area’s breakup
premium, because in 2010 that particular panic hadn’t yet set
in. This smacks of mispriced sovereign risk.  Let’s look at these two economies that investors are
betting on so confidently. In Italy, the central bank just cut
its growth  forecast  for this year: Instead of contracting by 0.2
percent of gross domestic product, the economy would do so by 1
percent of GDP. This follows a contraction estimated to be more
than 2 percent last year -- one of the steepest declines in
output in the European Union. Domestic demand in Italy has
fallen by an average of 1.8 percent annually since 2008, having
grown by a meager 1.3 percent from 2003 to 2007, the second-
lowest rate in the euro area, according to the European
Commission. Export growth is insufficient to pick up the slack.  Gloomy Picture  Adding to this gloomy picture, Italian politics are
becoming messier. Next month’s parliamentary election is likely
to result in a fragmented legislature and a leftist coalition
government with limited appetite for the kinds of structural
changes to the economy that Italy needs if it is to create
meaningful growth.  Are these risks being adequately priced in? Hardly.
Investors still expect Mario Monti, Italy’s technocrat premier-
turned-politician, to be part of the next government and that
this will ensure policy continuity. Yet Monti is not a miracle
worker, and Italy’s problems are deep-rooted.  Still, at least Italy is in better shape than Spain. The
economy remains trapped in a vicious circle, despite improvement
in its current-account balance as collapsing domestic demand has
reduced imports. Problems in enforcing fiscal discipline in
Spain’s regions, shockingly high unemployment, a credit crunch
and a persistent lack of growth will make it extremely  difficult 
for Spain to get back on its feet.  Spain’s budget deficit is expected to have reached about 8
percent of GDP in 2012, despite the government’s austerity
policies, driven up by the cost of shoring up the country’s
still-vulnerable banking sector. So Spain’s debt burden
continues to grow. The nation entered the crisis in 2008 with an
admirably low public-debt level of 40 percent of GDP, but this
has risen to almost 90 percent of GDP today, according to
figures from the International Monetary Fund.  Again, are investors taking these risks into account? If
they are, they have parked such concerns at the backs of their
minds. The rally in Spanish and Italian debt is fueled by
liquidity and shows no signs of ebbing. Market prices,
particularly in the case of Spain, are increasingly detached
from fundamentals -- just as they were when investors fretted
about the euro area breaking up.  Now that the self-fulfilling panic of a euro-area collapse
has disappeared, investors should pay far more attention to
country-specific risk. Failure to do so is a big part of what
got us into this mess in the first place.  (Nicholas Spiro is the managing director of London-based
Spiro Sovereign Strategy, a consultancy specializing in
sovereign credit risk. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Nicholas Spiro at  njs@spiro-strategy.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 