-- Gleacher Resigns From Namesake Firm Amid Strategic Review
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-01-29T19:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/eric-gleacher-resigns-as-chairman-of-namesake-investment-bank.html
Gleacher & Co., the investment bank
that’s considering a sale or merger, said Eric J. Gleacher
resigned as chairman and will leave the firm.  Gleacher’s founder is quitting the board of directors and
planning to strike out on his own, he said today in a telephone
interview. The New York-based firm said in August it hired a
financial adviser to consider strategic options for the money-
losing company.  “The business model on  Wall Street  is changing once again
and there’s plenty of interest in people who have the skills and
experience I do,” Gleacher said. “I can do what I do in an
independent fashion and I don’t plan on joining any firm of any
type.”  Smaller financial companies including Gleacher have
struggled amid a slump in trading commissions that pushed
brokerages such as WJB Capital Group Inc. and Ticonderoga
Securities LLC to close last year. Gleacher reported a $68.3
million loss for the first nine months of 2012 and posted only
one annual profit since 2004. The  stock  dropped 68 percent since
2010 to 76 cents as of yesterday and was little changed as of
2:19 p.m. in  New York .  Gleacher, 72, founded Gleacher Partners Inc. in 1990 and
before that led mergers and acquisitions at  Lehman Brothers 
Holdings Inc. and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , according to the statement. He
hasn’t been chief executive officer since 2010, the year he sold
his advisory boutique to the former First Albany Cos., which
later took on his name.  Archstone Deal  Stifel Financial Corp. (SF) , the St. Louis-based brokerage, was
said in October to be among the companies that bid on all or
part of Gleacher.  Andrew Siegel , a spokesman for Gleacher at
Joele Frank Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher, declined to comment on
the strategic review, as did Eric Gleacher.  Gleacher said he hasn’t been managing the firm since the
merger. He said his focus has been advising Lehman Brothers,
which filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in 2008, on
selling its Archstone Inc. real estate unit. Lehman agreed in
November to sell Archstone to Equity Residential and AvalonBay
Communities Inc. for $6.5 billion, with Gleacher acting as lead
adviser.  Bryan Marsal , who ran Lehman Brothers from 2008 until last
year, said in a phone interview that he worked with Gleacher for
about a year and a half on the Archstone deal. Before selling
Archstone, Lehman first had to buy the remainder of the company
in 2012 after a dispute with Equity Residential, which was
founded by billionaire  Sam Zell .  “The price improved almost $2 billion over the course of
the year and a half,” said Marsal, co-founder of restructuring
firm Alvarez & Marsal Inc. “He made a commitment that he would
provide his time and attention to that deal.”  Gleacher said he plans on investing in companies in
addition to providing advice to CEOs, saying he wants to
“participate in these ventures and create something that’s
successful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  