-- Eskom’s Nqaba Sidesteps 5 Billion-Rand Debt Buyback
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-01-29T11:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/eskom-s-nqaba-sidesteps-5-billion-rand-debt-buyback.html
Eskom SOC Ltd. said noteholders will
probably amend rules that force one of its units to repay 5
billion rand ($552 million) of debt after  Fitch Ratings  lowered
its assessment of  South Africa ’s power utility.  Eskom Finance Co., the division of the electricity company
that advances mortgages to employees, has listed bonds through a
special purpose company called Nqaba Finance 1 (Pty) Ltd. Fitch
downgraded Johannesburg-based Eskom on Jan. 11 following its
reassessment of South  Africa ’s sovereign rating. Nqaba has the
option to waive the early repayment with noteholders’ approval,
Eskom spokeswoman Hilary Joffe said in an e-mail.  “Noteholders have been contacted and they indicated that
they will support waiving the early amortization event and re-
instate the revolving period,” Joffe said. “They also agree in
principle to the changing of the documentation that will
effectively reduce the early amortization event if Eskom is to
be downgraded further.” Neither Eskom Finance or Nqaba want the
bonds to be repaid early, she said.  Fitch downgraded the credit rating of Africa’s largest
economy to the second-lowest investment grade on Jan. 11
following the worst labor unrest in mines, transport and farms
since the end of white minority rule. Moody’s Investors Service
and  Standard & Poor’s  cut the country’s credit assessment in
September.  Owners of Nqaba’s debt will convene a meeting on either
Feb. 15 or Feb. 16 to change the documentation, Joffe said.
Nqaba has until Feb. 22 to amend the rules. Two-thirds of the
debtholders present must vote in favor of the changes, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  