-- Hess Should Consider Bakken Spinoff, Elliott Management Says
-- B y   T i n a   D a v i s   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-01-29T13:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/hess-should-consider-bakken-spinoff-elliott-management-says-1-.html
Hess Corp. (HES)  should conduct a full
strategic review, including potential spinoff of its Bakken
shale assets, Paul Singer’s Elliott Management Corp. said.  The activist investor urged shareholders of the New York-
based energy company to vote for five new board members it’s
proposing in a letter today. Elliott Management owns 4 percent
of Hess’s common stock, the largest initial investment in its
35-year history.  Elliott Management gave notice to the company on Jan. 25
that it would buy about $800 million in shares and seek new
board members. Hess yesterday said it will close its last
refinery and seek to sell a fuel storage network.  “Lack of focus is a chronic issue at Hess that remains
unchecked by the board,” Elliott said in the letter. “New
directors are needed for real change.”  The investment firm said the shares could be worth as much
as $126 each, more than twice Hess’s $62.48 closing price
yesterday. The announcement was made before regular trading
began on U.S. markets. Hess rose 2.7 percent to 64.21 at 8:10
a.m. in New York.  Four of Elliot’s proposed board members have senior
executive experience at  oil companies , according to the letter.
The fifth is  Harvey Golub , former chairman and chief executive
officer of  American Express Co. (AXP)   Singer is the founder and president of Elliott Management,
which oversees two funds, Elliott Associates LP and Elliott
International LP, that have $21.5 billion of assets under
management. Elliott last year added two new board members to  BMC
Software Inc. (BMC)  after pushing BMC to consider a sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tina Davis in New York at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  