-- Ex-SocGen Director Sues Over Firing, Withheld Bonus Pay
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-01-29T10:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/ex-socgen-director-sues-over-firing-withheld-bonus-pay.html
A former  Societe Generale SA (GLE) 
director who oversaw Dutch derivatives trading sued the bank in
Britain for unfair dismissal, withholding his final bonus and
failing to consult him and co-workers before a group layoff.  Folef Hooft Graafland, 44, who worked in Societe Generale’s
London office, was fired in February 2012 as part of a cost-
cutting program. He wasn’t given the five months’ notice
required under his employment contract, meaning the firing by
the French bank wasn’t effective, his lawyer Giles Powell said
during a hearing last week at a U.K. employment tribunal.  “I believe that the summary dismissal for redundancy”
without notice “was a breach of contract which I did not accept
and that, as a result, it did not bring my contract of
employment to an end,” Graafland said in court papers.  Graafland, who was the only director in the Derivative
Solutions Group Netherlands, had worked for the Paris-based bank
since 2006. The judge overseeing the case is resolving several
preliminary issues before a full trial, including whether
Graafland was technically fired and whether his case can be used
to represent a class of at least 20 others.  Murray Parker, spokesman for  Societe Generale  in London,
declined to comment on the allegations.  Societe Generale fired Graafland because he and his area of
the business were under-performing, and because he was the only
director in his team, Zoe Hoult, a human-resources employee at
the bank, said in a witness statement filed with the court.  2010 Contract  The dispute hinges on whether Societe Generale had the
legal right to pay Graafland five months of his salary instead
of giving him five months’ notice. Graafland argues a 2010
contract he signed doesn’t include provisions for such a payment
instead of advanced notice. The bank argues the procedure is
approved in its employee handbook.  “The handbook forms part of the terms and conditions of
the claimant’s employment,” Hoult said in the statement.  U.K. employment law requires companies to consult workers
or their representatives when they’re planning to fire more than
20 people, Powell said. Societe Generale didn’t consult
Graafland or his co-workers, he said.  Societe Generale decided in January 2012 to cut costs as a
result of changing market conditions, Hoult said. Graafland was
approached by his manager on the bank’s trading floor on Feb.
20, 2012, and asked to attend a meeting.  “It was apparent that the claimant suspected what the
purpose of the meeting would be,” because he “decided to bring
his personal items with him,” Hoult said. When asked if he had
any questions, Graafland didn’t react. During the meeting and
the following week, Graafland didn’t challenge the firing or
attempt to return to the office, returned the bank’s property,
and kept his final payment, Hoult said.  Graafland, “had clearly been dismissed,” Hoult said. “If
he did think that he was still employed, he would not have
returned his BlackBerry,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  