-- Texas Tax Payments May Be Refunded Under Perry-Backed Plan
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-29T18:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/texas-tax-payments-could-be-refunded-under-plan-backed-by-perry.html
Texas Governor  Rick Perry  wants to
amend the state’s constitution to allow taxes to be refunded to
residents should money go unspent by the government.  In a speech today to the Texas Legislature, Perry, 62, a
former Republican presidential candidate, also called for $1.8
billion in unspecified tax cuts over two years. The state
estimates it will have an $8.8 billion budget surplus.  “When we do bring in more than we need, we’ll have the
option of returning tax money directly to the people who paid
it,” Perry said. “Currently, that’s not something our
constitution allows. We need to fix that.”  Perry is joining other governors seeking tax reductions. At
least eight governors, including Republican Sam Brownback of
 Kansas , said this month they want to cut or eliminate personal
or corporate income taxes. Texas doesn’t have a personal income
tax.  A constitutional change in Texas requires two-thirds
support of the House and Senate, both controlled by Republicans,
and it then must win approval from a majority of voters.  Perry’s constitutional proposal is a “political stunt,”
said State Senator Rodney Ellis, a Houston Democrat, in an
interview. The amendment won’t get support from Democrats, he
said.  “We need to work toward a state budget that invests in the
big needs of our state including water, schools and roads,”
Ellis said.  Texas lawmakers will have $101.4 billion in general revenue
over the next two years, Comptroller Susan Combs said on Jan. 7.
Early budgets proposed by Senate and House leaders call for
spending about $89 billion, in addition to more than $6 billion
to pay education and health insurance bills deferred from the
current fiscal year ending Aug. 31.  Texas  won’t expand Medicaid health coverage for the poor
under the federal Affordable Care Act, Perry said.  “Texas will not drive millions more into an unsustainable
system,” Perry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  