-- Texas Day Trader Sued by SEC Over High-Frequency Trading Claims
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-01-29T17:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/texas-day-trader-sued-by-sec-over-high-frequency-trading-claims.html
A  Texas  day trader illegally raised
more than $6 million from the Houston-area Lebanese community by
making false promises that his algorithmic trading program would
generate 30 percent returns, U.S. regulators said.  Firas Hamdan, 49, hid $1.5 million in losses from his 33
investors, telling them the funds were tied up in the Greek debt
crisis and the 2011  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  bankruptcy, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said in a lawsuit filed today
at U.S. District Court in Houston. Hamdan, who raised the money
from 2007 to 2012, is contesting the SEC’s claims.  “Hamdan’s affinity scam preyed upon people’s tendency to
trust those who share common backgrounds and beliefs,” David Woodcock, director of the SEC’s regional office in  Fort Worth ,
Texas. “Hamdan raised money by creating the aura of a
successful day trader among friends and family in his community,
and he continued to mislead them and hide the truth while
trading losses mounted.”  Hamdan told fellow members of the Lebanese and Druze
communities that he would pool their investments with his own
money and conduct high-frequency trading using a proprietary
trading algorithm, the SEC said. He showed them phony
documentation of positive returns in 59 of 60 months from 2007
through 2012, and falsely claimed that a well-known Dallas-area
hedge fund manager had invested $1 million with him, according
to the lawsuit.  “Mr. Hamdan is disappointed the SEC took this step,” said
Robert Heim, Hamdan’s attorney at Meyers & Heim LLP in  New York .
“We intend to contest the SEC’s case, and we believe the SEC’s
allegations are without merit.  The SEC is seeking disgorgement of ill-gotten profits and
other financial penalties.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  