-- Mexico’s Bond Yields Rise as Safety Trade Ebbs; Peso Declines
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-01-29T00:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/mexico-s-bond-yields-rise-as-safety-trade-ebbs-peso-declines.html
Mexico’s local currency bond yields
rose to a one-week high, following U.S. Treasuries, as
speculation that the economic outlook for both countries is
improving reduced demand from investors seeking a haven.  The yield on Mexico’s peso-denominated debt due in 2022
rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.16 percent
at 4 p.m. in Mexico City, the highest closing level since Jan.
18, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
weakened 0.5 percent to 12.7668 per dollar.  Demand for Mexican bonds is declining along with Treasuries
on data pointing to an economic recovery, according to Rafael Camarena, an economist at Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico SAB.
The Commerce Department said today that orders for durable goods
climbed more than forecast in December in the U.S., the
destination for about 80 percent of Mexico’s exports.  “It’s expected that economic activity in the U.S. will
continue to go well,” Camarena said by phone from Mexico City.
“The perspective is positive.”  The 60-day  correlation coefficient  between 10-year peso
bonds and similar-maturity Treasuries was 0.37 today, up from
0.29 a week ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
reading of 1 would signal the securities moved in lockstep.
Yields on 10-year Treasuries, considered among the world’s
safest investments, touched 2 percent for the first time since
April after U.S. durable-goods orders climbed more than
forecast.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years rose
4.6 percent in December in the U.S., exceeding the highest
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg, after a 0.7
percent gain in November, a Commerce Department report showed
today in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  