-- F&N’s Chairman Lee ‘Disappointed’ OUE Backed Off on Higher Offer
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-01-29T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/f-n-s-chairman-lee-disappointed-oue-backed-off-on-higher-offer.html
Fraser & Neave Ltd. (FNN) ’s chairman said
he was “disappointed”  Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd. (OUE)  failed to
challenge Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi’s S$13.8
billion ($11.2 billion) bid for the property and drinks company.  A planned auction for F&N may have resulted in greater
value for the company, Chairman Lee Hsien Yang said at a
shareholder meeting yesterday. Charoen is poised to win control
of F&N after the rival bidding group led by OUE failed to match
his S$9.55 a share offer.  The OUE-led group on Jan. 21 said it would not raise an
earlier bid of S$9.08 a share. Singapore regulators had said
they would hold an auction for the 130-year-old property company
in case of an stalemate between the two companies.  “We were disappointed” that the OUE-led group chose not
to bid, Lee said at the meeting, which was attended by more than
300 shareholders. Lee is the younger brother of  Singapore ’s
Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong.  Charoen’s TCC Assets, while announcing a raised bid of
S$9.55 a share on Jan. 18, also said it had boosted its stake in
the conglomerate.  TCC’s purchase of the 6.3 percent stake surprised the
market and created a clear gap with OUE, Lee said.  Lee and three other directors have said they plan to sell
their shares to TCC after adviser JPMorgan Chase & Co. called
the Thai offer “fair.” The company said yesterday its board
plans to resign when TCC’s bid becomes unconditional.  Charoen’s TCC boosted its F&N stake ahead of the official
start of the auction by buying 90.8 million shares at S$9.55
each. Two attendees at the meeting asked why shareholders would
sell at that price, which was below where the stock had been
trading at that time.  “It does not seem a logical thing to do,” Lee said of the
decision by institutions to sell then, referring to the thin
trading volume and higher average share price of F&N over the
previous month. TCC in a Jan. 19 statement said it had bought
shares from unrelated parties.  TCC owns 46.13 percent of F&N, it said yesterday. Its offer
is due to close at 5:30 p.m. Singapore time on Feb. 4.  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) , which has a 15 percent holding in F&N,
will choose the option with the best value for its shareholders,
the Japanese brewer’s managing director Hirotake Kobayashi said
yesterday after the same meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  