-- Fed Dealer Borrowing Climbs to 10-Month High Amid U.S. Auctions
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-01-29T16:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/fed-dealer-borrowing-climbs-to-10-month-high-amid-u-s-auctions.html
The amount of securities  borrowed 
daily from the  Federal Reserve  by the central bank’s primary
dealers surged to a 10-month high with some maturities in short
supply amid this week’s U.S. debt auctions.  When securities are hard to obtain in the repurchase
agreement market, dealers can go to the  Federal Reserve Bank of
New York  to borrow the debt. Demand for specific securities
typically rises when the Treasury is selling debt, as dealers
look to cover so-called short positions build up before the
auctions they’re required to bid on. A short is a bet a
securities price will fall.  The Fed offers  Treasury securities  held by its System Open
Market Account, or SOMA, for loan to dealers against Treasury
general collateral on an overnight basis. Dealers bid in a
multiple-price auction held every day at noon New York time.
This differs from borrowing of securities in the repo market.
Securities that can be borrowed at  interest rates  close to the
Federal Reserve’s target rate, which is in a range of zero to
0.25 percent, are called general collateral. Those in highest
demand have lower rates and are called “special.”  “The rise in SOMA borrowings is likely an indicator of an
increase in core shorts in the market, and an indicator of why
general collateral repo rates have been lower in the latter half
of the day over the past week,” said Kenneth Silliman, head of
U.S. short-term rates trading at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities unit in New York. “Dealers have had to provide an
increasing amount of collateral to the Fed to secure these
borrowings, which has created late-day imbalances in the repo
market.”  SOMA Lending  The U.S. sells $35 billion of five-year notes today, the
second of three auctions of coupon-bearing debt this week
totaling $99 billion. The U.S. sold $35 billion of two-year
notes yesterday and will auction $29 billion of seven-year
securities tomorrow.  SOMA lending of Treasury notes and bonds rose to $20.179
billion yesterday, an increase of 30 percent from the prior
day’s level.  Lending  has risen each of the past five days, and
is up from $4.903 billion on Jan. 18.  Five-, seven- and 10-year year become coveted in the
repurchase agreement before the government auctions of the debt
this week. Traders have been willing to pay to borrow the
securities in exchange for loaning cash for the most actively
traded of these Treasury notes, meaning overnight repo rates are
negative. The opening repo rate for the on-the-run five-year
Treasury note was negative 0.15 percent, while that for the
seven-year was negative 0.1 percent and the open for the 10-year
was negative 0.03 percent.  The general collateral repo rate for Treasuries fell below
zero yesterday, touching negative 0.05 percent during the
afternoon, according to TD Securities.  Finance Market  Typically, lenders of cash receive interest on those
loans, represented by a positive repurchase agreement, or repo,
rate. Many times traders short, or sell securities they’ve
borrowed in the repo market, before a Treasury sale to profit if
prices of the securities fall after the auction.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage.  The Fed has also been purchasing debt in some of the
maturity areas that the Treasury is issuing securities this
week, removing available notes in the secondary market.  The Fed bought $3.357 billion of Treasuries maturing from
February 2020 to November 2022 today as part of its latest round
of quantitative easing aimed at keeping borrowing costs low,
according to the Fed Bank of  New York ’s  website . The central
bank is purchasing $85 billion of government and mortgage debt
each month.  General Collateral  The overnight Treasury general collateral repurchase
agreement rate opened today at 0.1 percent, according to ICAP
Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  The  average rate  for borrowing and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.082 percent yesterday,
according to index data provided on a one-day lag by the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. The index touched as low this
year as 0.08 percent on Jan. 22, down from 0.29 percent at the
end of last year.  “The Fed has been buying some of these sectors, the seven-
year in particular, which has caused it to really richen in
repo, and the central bank has had to lend out more because it’s
the most on special,” said Ira Jersey, an interest-rate
strategist in New York at Credit Suisse Group AG, a primary
dealer. “This is not unusual seasonally, as we’ve seen a spike
in SOMA lending at this time during the past two years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  