-- FERC Staff Backs Penalties for Barclays in Energy Probe
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-01-29T14:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/ferc-staff-backs-penalties-for-barclays-in-energy-probe.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  failed to show that
four former traders didn’t manipulate U.S. energy markets, the
 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ’s staff said, backing $488
million in penalties on the bank and the individuals.  The traders engaged in a “three-part manipulative scheme”
to game the markets, FERC staff said in a filing yesterday,
which was posted to the agency’s website today. “Neither
Barclays nor its individual traders are able to offer any
credible explanation to show their conduct was proper,” it
said, adding that the proposed penalties are “reasonable and
appropriate.”  London-based Barclays and the traders have denied any
wrongdoing and have vowed to challenge the accusations in court.  The combined penalties are the largest ever proposed by
FERC for alleged market violations, and the outcome of the
dispute may help clarify what constitutes market manipulation.
Barclays said in a Dec. 14 regulatory filing that the FERC staff
interpretation is too broad and may chill trading in power
markets, where electricity supply is bought and sold.  FERC on Oct. 31 proposed that the bank pay a $435 million
civil penalty and refund $34.9 million in profits after workers
in an energy-trading unit allegedly gamed markets in the Western
U.S. from late 2006 to 2008. The agency also said four former
traders should pay a total of $18 million, with one individual
responsible for a $15 million fine.  ‘Legitimate’ Trading  “We believe that our trading was legitimate and in
compliance with applicable law,”  Mark Lane , a bank spokesman,
said today in an e-mailed statement. The FERC should throw out
the proposed penalties and end the investigation, he said.  “If the FERC proceeds, we intend to vigorously defend this
matter in federal court,” Lane said.  The traders “knew their activity was unlawful,” FERC
staff said in their filing yesterday. Barclays’ traders took
losses of about $4.1 million in energy markets while making
gains of $34.9 million in financial markets, according to the
filing.  “Barclays’ manipulative trading scheme cost other market
participants at least $139.3 million,” the staff said.  Congress granted the commission additional enforcement
authority in 2005, partially in response to trading by Enron
Corp. employees that disrupted  California ’s energy markets
earlier in that decade. Within the past two years, FERC has made
public 13 investigations of alleged market manipulation,
including probes of trading units at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Deutsche Bank on Jan. 22 agreed to pay $1.6 million in
penalties in a settlement, backing away from from a previous
assertion that it was prepared to challenge the fine in court.
The bank’s unit neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing,
according to the commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  