-- Finland Backs EU CO2 Plan; Denmark Calls Situation Unsustainable
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-01-29T17:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/finland-backs-eu-co2-plan-denmark-calls-situation-unsustainable.html
Finland  threw its weight behind a
European Union rescue plan for the bloc’s carbon market as
Denmark said the situation was unsustainable, highlighting the
need for governments to tackle a record surplus of allowances.  Finland said today that it is in favor of the European
Commission’s stop-gap measure to delay auctions of some carbon
permits, joining  Spain ,  Italy  and  France , which signaled last
year that they are going to support the proposed market fix. At
stake is the price of permits in the world’s biggest emissions
trading program, which slumped to a record low last week on
concerns that policymakers will fail to act to strengthen the
market.  “The Finnish government’s official position is to support
the commission’s proposal for backloading,” Magnus Cederloef,
senior technical adviser at the  Environment Ministry  in
Helsinki, said by telephone today. “However, Finland opposes
permanent withdrawal of permits, which some EU countries have
discussed, although no such proposal has been made.”  The commission’s plan to sell fewer carbon permits in 2013-
2015 and return them to the market in 2019-2020, a strategy
known as backloading, has caused rifts among governments,
industries and lawmakers. Several EU member states set
conditions for supporting the  measure  and some don’t have a
formal stance on the plan yet. Backloading needs qualified
majority support from governments to be implemented.  Record Low  Carbon permits for December dropped 2.4 percent to 4.08
euros a metric ton as of 4:01 p.m., according to data from the
ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London . The contract slumped to a
record low of 2.81 euros last week, losing 89 percent since it
started trading in April 2008 as the financial crisis hurt
industrial production and cut demand from industry for emission
permits. That boosted the surplus of allowances to almost half
of average annual pollution limit in the system.  The current situation on the EU carbon market is
“unsustainable,” Danish Climate Minister Martin Lidegaard said
today in a phone interview. Denmark, along with the U.K. and
 Sweden , favors deepening the EU emission-reduction target as the
best option to tackle the glut, he said.  “Meanwhile, we’re painfully aware of the very small chance
to pass that in the EU due to strong opposition from a number of
countries,” Lidegaard said. “The problem of backloading is
that it will turn out as a Sword of Damocles, hanging over our
heads ready to fall, if it doesn’t have any impact on prices.”  Similar Position  Denmark will eventually adopt a similar position to the
U.K., which is to support the backloading proposal while
lobbying for a more permanent solution, according to Matthew Cowie, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in London.  “Perhaps a better analogy for backloading is to compare it
to the fiscal cliff in the U.S. which helped to speed up
negotiations around the  federal budget ,” Cowie said by e-mail.  To be enacted, the EU plan to delay sales of 900 million
carbon permits needs 255 out of 345 votes from national
governments in a ballot system with votes weighted by each
country’s size.  Spain, Italy, France and  Belgium , which signaled last year
they support backloading, have 97 votes together. The
Netherlands, whose parliament called on the nation’s government
to support the commission’s proposal, has 13 votes. Lithuania,
which said last month that in principle it has nothing against
the plan, as well as Denmark and Finland have seven votes each.  The U.K., with 29 votes, set some conditions for its
support while signaling flexibility, EU officials with knowledge
of the matter said last week.  Germany , which also has 29 votes,
remains undecided. The government in Berlin holds the key to the
fate of the backloading proposal, according to analysts
including  Trevor Sikorski  at Barclays Plc in London.  Poland ,
with 27 votes, is leading efforts to block the measure.  Marcin Korolec, Poland’s  Environment Minister , said today
he was “surprised” some countries consider support to
backloading. “It is fiscal policy in disguise, not CO2-
reduction tool,” he said on his Twitter Inc. account.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net 
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  