-- Finland Backs EU Commission Carbon Permit Backloading Plan
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2013-01-29T09:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/finland-backs-eu-commission-on-carbon-permit-backloading-plan.html
Finland  supports an emergency
measure by the European Union to help carbon prices rebound from
a record low by temporarily withholding supply of some permits.  Finland backs a proposal from the commission, the bloc’s
regulatory arm, to fix a glut in a bid to prop up prices, Magnus
Cederloef, senior technical adviser at the  Environment Ministry 
in Helsinki, said by phone today.  “However, Finland opposes permanent withdrawal of permits,
which some EU countries have discussed, although no such
proposal has been made,” he said.  Carbon permits for December traded at 4.06 euros ($5.46) a
metric ton as of 8:58 a.m. after dropping as much as 5.5 percent
to 3.95 euros, according to data from the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London .  At stake are prices in the world’s largest cap-and-trade
program, which fell to a record 2.81 euros a metric ton on Jan.
24. The price of carbon permits peaked at 36.43 euros on July 1
2008, and has plunged after the financial crisis hurt industrial
production and cut demand from industry for emission permits.
That boosted the surplus of allowances to almost half of average
annual pollution limit in the system.  To alleviate the glut, the commission has proposed to delay
the sale of 900 million metric tons of permits from 2013 through
2015, releasing the allowances back to the market in 2019 and
2020. The proposal has caused rifts among governments,
industries and lawmakers.  Mixed Views  To be enacted, the EU plan to delay sales of some permits
needs qualified majority support from national governments in a
ballot system that favors larger countries.  Spain ,  Italy , France
and  Belgium  signaled last year they support the so-called
backloading plan. Lithuania said last month that in principle it
has nothing against the plan. The Dutch parliament called on the
nation’s government to support the commission’s proposal.  The U.K. set some conditions for its support while
signaling flexibility, three EU officials with knowledge of the
matter said last week. Germany, which according to analysts
including  Trevor Sikorski  at Barclays, holds the key to
backloading, remains undecided. Poland is leading efforts to
block the measure.  The last meeting of representatives of  member states  in
Brussels on Jan. 25 failed to bring a breakthrough on the issue,
the officials said. Many of the EU’s 27 nations did not have
official positions to present, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  