-- Fischer Growth Focus Helped Israel Beat World on Returns
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2013-01-30T11:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/fischer-growth-focus-helped-make-israel-world-beater-for-returns.html
Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  celebrated the reconstruction of a South American
synagogue transported to Jerusalem, giving tours in December to
admiring donors. Yesterday it was Fischer who received plaudits
for rebuilding, in this case the central bank and the economy it
oversees.  “He’s done marvels in Israel,” Nobel laureate  Robert Solow , who taught Fischer and then worked alongside him at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said in a telephone
interview. “He’s played a terribly important role and I’ve no
idea how they’ll replace him.”  Triggering the praise was the surprise announcement that
the 69-year-old former International Monetary Fund No. 2 will
step down June 30, midway through his second five-year term.
He’ll leave behind an economy that has rebounded from the global
financial crisis faster than most peers and whose  main stock
index  has outperformed its U.S. and European counterparts.  Fischer said today he decided to step down for personal
reasons, mostly because his family is in the U.S. and he has
achieved most of the goals he set to accomplish.  “I have no new job, but I intend to be involved in public
life in the country and hope that my voice will continue to be
heard in public debate,” Fischer said at a press conference in
Jerusalem. “Israel is my second home and I don’t know if that’s
any less than my first home.”  ‘Responsible Adult’  The challenge for Fischer’s successor will be stepping into
the shoes of a man who once served as thesis adviser to Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , and who at the Bank of Israel
broadened the focus to include growth as well as inflation.
Among the first items on the agenda may be to prod Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  to shrink a  budget deficit  that grew
to 4.2 percent of gross domestic product last year, and to slow
the rise in housing prices.  Israeli  stocks traded in New York  fell to a one-month low
and the cost of protecting Israeli bonds against default surged
to 126 basis points, the highest in three weeks. Yields on the
benchmark 10-year bond due 2023 rose 3 basis points to 4.12
percent at 1:13 p.m. in Tel Aviv. The shekel strengthened 0.2
percent and was trading 3.7221 a dollar.  “Fischer was the responsible adult,” Amir Kahanovich,
chief economist at Clal Finance Brokerage Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said
in a phone interview. “There is no doubt that foreign investors
trusted him and the policies he put in place.”  Rising Shekel  Israel produced better risk-adjusted returns than all other
developed stock markets in the past decade as the technology-
driven economy attracted global investors.  The BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING shows the Tel Aviv
TA-25 Index returned 13.4 percent in the 10 years ended Jan. 29
after adjusting for volatility, the highest among 24 developed-
nation benchmark indexes. Israel beat the  Oslo OBX Index (OBX) , the
next-best market with a risk-adjusted gain of 13.2 percent.  Israel outperformed as it fought a month-long battle
against Hezbollah in 2006, was involved in a similar conflict
with Hamas two years later, and now cites a threat from Iran’s
nuclear program. Investors including  Warren Buffett  bought local
companies. Under Fischer,  gross domestic product  expanded by
14.7 percent from 2009 to 2012, compared with 3.2 percent in the
U.S. and a contraction of 1.5 percent in the euro region.  Successor Search  The shekel has surged 17.3 percent against the dollar since
Fischer took office in May 2005, making it the second-best
performer in Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa. Israel’s  Tel
Aviv 25 Index (TA-25)  climbed 78 percent and hit a record 1,341.89 in
April 2011, outperforming U.S. and European benchmarks.  Israel’s local bonds have rallied 96 percent in dollar
terms since May 1, 2005, compared with a 42 percent increase for
a global index of government debt, data compiled by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch show.  Fischer declined to propose a successor, though he said
there are many good candidates in Israel. While saying he
appreciated that Israel’s leaders “went outside” to appoint
him governor in 2005, “I don’t think it’s something that they
should do every time.”  In addition to Bernanke, Fischer taught European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  at MIT in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
 Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said in a statement he has
the “highest admiration” for Fischer and called his
resignation “a loss to the central banking community.”  Harder Without  Among possible successors are Avi Ben-Bassat, head of the
Bank of Israel’s research department and former director general
of the  Finance Ministry , as well as the central bank’s former
deputy governor, Zvi Eckstein, said  Jonathan Katz , a Jerusalem-
based economist for HSBC Holdings Plc. Another mentioned is
Galia Maor, the woman who stepped down last year as chief
executive of  Bank Leumi Le-Israel (LUMI)  Ltd., the country’s biggest
lender, and a former senior director of the central bank.  “Netanyahu appoints the next governor, he is well aware
that Israel needs a well-known and credible figure, independent,
with central banking experience,” Katz said.  Fischer’s dual focus on employment and  growth  alongside
 price stability  has marked a shift at the Bank of Israel, where
previous governors placed an emphasis on inflation. It’s among a
raft of changes that the Zambian-born economist introduced
during almost eight years in charge. Among them: shifting
responsibility for the monthly interest-rate decision from the
governor alone to a seven-member Monetary Committee, including
three outside academics. He helped lobby a new law through the
Knesset to get the group created.  Kibbutz Resident  “We faced a lot of unexpected circumstances, obviously,
since I joined the bank in 2005, and sitting down with
colleagues you trust, and thinking your way through, should we
do this, should we do that, there is nothing quite like it,”
Fischer said in a Jan. 25 interview at the World Economic Forum
in Davos on Bloomberg Radio’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  “If they weren’t there, it would be a heck of a lot harder
to figure out what to do,” he said.  Fischer was approached in early 2005 by then-prime minister
Ariel Sharon and Netanyahu, serving as finance minister, to
succeed  David Klein  as central bank governor -- even though he
wasn’t an Israeli citizen or resident.  Fischer’s connection with Israel dates back decades. In
Zambia, he was a member of Habonim, a Zionist youth group, along
with Rhoda Keet, his future wife, with whom he has three sons.
In the early 1960s, he spent six months on a kibbutz on Israel’s
Mediterranean coastal plain, where he combined learning Hebrew
with manual labor. He conducts his official business in Hebrew
with an accent that indicates his upbringing in southern Africa.  Slowing Growth  Fischer has previously toyed with leaving before the end of
his term in 2015. In 2011 he put himself forward as a candidate
for the leadership of the IMF. He was disqualified for the post
as he was over the organization’s age limit of 65, and the
position went to France’s  Christine Lagarde .  Fischer’s “experience, his wisdom and his international
connections opened a door to the economies of the world and
assisted the Israeli economy in reaching many achievements,
during a period of global economic crisis,” Netanyahu said
yesterday.  Still, last year’s economic growth rate of 3.3 percent was
the slowest since 2009. Weakening growth has eased demand and
helped keep  inflation  within the government target of 1 percent
to 3 percent since September 2011, the longest such period since
2007, leaving room for Fischer and the monetary policy panel to
lower rates.  Some of Fischer’s innovations have been aimed at making the
bank more transparent, such as publishing minutes of rate
meetings and holding sessions with economic forecasters.  House Prices  He leaves for his successor the issue of  home prices , which
increased 5.7 percent in the 12 months through November,
according to the Bank of Israel. Housing debt rose 7.5 percent
to 275 billion shekels ($73.5 billion) at the end of October.
The Bank of Israel capped the loan-to-value ratio in new housing
credits in an effort to keep mortgages in check.  At the white 18th-century synagogue that was taken from
Suriname and reconstructed at the Israel Museum, not far from
his office, Fischer reflected on his own path from Africa to
Israel and the Jewish people’s yearning for a home.  “Every time I see a synagogue, I begin to think about this
nation, wherever they go, the first thing they do is build
themselves a community center, no matter where,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  