-- Fisker Hires Huron to Help Conserve Cash During Strategic Review
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-01-29T17:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/fisker-hires-huron-to-help-conserve-cash-during-strategic-review.html
Fisker Automotive Inc., the
rechargeable-car maker that’s seeking a partner or a buyer,
hired  Huron Consulting Group Inc. (HURN)  to help manage day-to-day
operations during negotiations.  Huron’s Hugh Sawyer is serving as chief administrative
officer, said Roger Ormisher, a spokesman for Anaheim,
California-based Fisker. The closely held company said in
December that it was working with  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  to find
potential investors or partners as Chief Executive Officer  Tony Posawatz  seeks to raise money.  Sawyer, a turnaround consultant, is in place to help
conserve cash as Fisker seeks a buyer or a partner, said a
person with knowledge of the process. The Energy Department
pulled loans to Fisker last year, depriving the company of more
than $300 million in funds.  Fisker is seeking first-round bids by early February,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter. If Fisker
can’t find a partner or raise funds by midyear, the company
risks running low on cash, said one of the people. Fisker’s
investors could also put up more money, that person said.  Fisker has already attracted interest from carmakers
operating in  China , as well as global vehicle producers, the
person said. Some suitors are interested in being strategic
partners, while others would buy the company and the brand and
some are just interested in the technology, according to the
person.  “We’re making prudent business decisions to help secure an
alliance or partnership,” Ormisher said. He declined to
elaborate. Jenna Nichols, a spokeswoman for Huron, didn’t return
a call seeking comment.  A123 Systems  Fisker still owes the Energy Department almost $200 million
from the loan program, according to Ormisher. Its challenges
increased when battery supplier  A123 Systems Inc. (AONEQ)  filed for
bankruptcy in October, halting the assembly of Fisker’s Karma
vehicle, an advanced plug-in hybrid that runs on an electric
motor and a gasoline-powered engine.  The carmaker has raised more than $1.2 billion in private
money and hopes to raise more, Posawatz said in December. He
joined Fisker as CEO in August after retiring from General
Motors Co. as vehicle line director for the plug-in hybrid
Chevrolet Volt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in  New York  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  