-- Fix Home Lending Before the Next Bubble
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2013-01-29T19:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/fix-home-lending-before-the-next-bubble.html
It’s odd that President  Barack Obama 
didn’t mention housing in his second inaugural address. After
all, he spent his first term in the shadow of a housing
meltdown, and remaking federal housing policy remains a central
piece of unfinished business.  Let’s hope that Obama tells us in his  State of the Union 
speech what his plans are for  Fannie Mae , the  Federal National
Mortgage Association (FNMA) , and Freddie Mac, the  Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corp. (FMCC)  The  Federal Housing Administration  seems headed
for a multibillion-dollar bailout.  The government was the housing bubble’s abettor-in-chief,
subsidizing borrowing directly with the mortgage-interest
deduction and indirectly through easy borrowing policies
encouraged by the  FHA ,  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac. The subsidies
must end and be replaced with regulations that limit aggressive
real estate lending during booms.  The fragility of the housing market in Obama’s first term
made major changes appear imprudent. Now, however, with the
 latest  Standard & Poor’s Case-Shiller Home Price Index showing
that housing values have gone up for almost a year, the
government should reverse its approach to mortgage markets and
stop using the  tax code  and government-sponsored enterprises to
encourage real estate borrowing.  Because even unsubsidized lenders have repeatedly
underestimated the downsides of real estate investment, the tax
code should limit the interest deduction both in absolute size
and as a share of total income. Regulators should require that
real estate lenders hold even more capital than now required.  Unavoidable Failure  The U.S. has been a country of real estate speculators ever
since King James I gave the Virginia Company property rights.
Although real estate bubbles have been ubiquitous, however, they
haven’t always led to financial crises. When banks and borrowing
are conservative, bubbles come and go with little collateral
damage. When the entire lending system depends on rising real
estate prices, systemwide failure is unavoidable.  Property bubbles are dangerous and common because there are
always reasonable explanations to justify boom-level prices.
Economists in 2005  estimated  that the cost of owning real estate
was only 2.5 percent of the market price of the home in Orange
County, California, and 2.4 percent in San Francisco. This low
cost reflects expected appreciation and low  interest rates .
Those meager costs, which reflected low real interest rates and
expected  capital gains  from future price growth, justify price-
to-rent ratios of 40, which is what these areas had during the
boom. When price growth slows, those price-to-rent ratios no
longer seem sensible, prices collapse, and so do banks.  I recently finished a historical  survey  of U.S. real estate
bubbles and found that calculations could similarly justify many
boom-level prices seen in the past. During the land boom of 1818
that preceded the bust of 1819, farmers were selling cotton for
more than 30 cents a pound. Paying $7, $70 or even $700 for an
acre capable of growing 1,000 pounds of cotton annually seemed
sensible. Iowa wheat farmers in 1910 could be excused for paying
$100 an acre, when those acres produced 18 bushels each and
wheat sold for $1 a bushel.  A marvelous 1930 book called “The Skyscraper” wanders
through the minutiae of skyscraper building in New York in 1929.
With office rents going for $3.50 a square foot, paying $200 a
square foot for land (about what the Empire State Building’s
developers spent) and building up at $12 a square foot was
eminently reasonable.  Justifying Booms  Cross-city comparisons have also been used to justify
bubble-level prices. On Feb. 9, 1887, during the flurry of an
early real estate boom, the  Los Angeles  Times compared prices in
Los Angeles with those in other cities, such as  Cleveland , and
concluded that “these figures should convince any one that
considering the great natural advantages enjoyed by this city,
prices of realty are not in so inflated a condition as is
sometimes supposed by the less sanguine among us.”  During the most recent boom, Las Vegas prices seemed
reasonable to buyers who were comparing them with prices in Los
Angeles, which may  explain  the geographic spread of the bubble
from the coast to nearby interior areas.  The big mistake that runs through real estate history is
that buyers and investors forget the 19th-century economist
Alfred Marshall’s dictum that “the value of a thing tends in
the long run to correspond to its cost of production.”  Alabama and Iowa buyers in 1819 and 1919, respectively,
were burned as agricultural supply increased and the prices of
cotton and wheat tumbled. The “Skyscraper” builders lost
fortunes when office rents fell to far less than $3.50 a square
foot, partly because New York had erected enough tall buildings.
Las Vegas buyers apparently forgot that there was essentially an
unlimited supply of desert land.  Buyers sometimes combine the more excusable error of
forgetting the power of supply with wild flights of fancy about
future price growth. The economists  Karl Case ,  Robert Shiller 
and Anne Thompson  surveyed  buyers in Orange County in 2004, who
apparently expected 17.4 percent price appreciation in each of
the next 10 years.  Some real estate bubbles, such as the Alabama boom of 1818,
ended in financial chaos, while others, such as the Los Angeles
boom of the 1880s, didn’t. When lending is limited, a bursting
bubble leads to only localized damage from a bit of
overbuilding. When borrowing is excessive, real estate crashes
can take down the entire financial system.  Yet the government has long supported overleveraging. The
mortgage-interest deduction makes it artificially inexpensive to
borrow to buy or build bigger houses. To those who say it will
never be politically possible to get rid of it, why not start by
gradually reducing the current cap on it from $1 million to
$300,000, and by limiting the size of the deduction relative to
total income? If the deduction was limited to 15 percent or 20
percent of income, this would discourage borrowers from taking
on too much housing-related risk.  Effective Signal  Changing the tax code is a far better way to discourage
risk taking than the Dodd-Frank Act’s rule that makes banks
liable for providing risky loans. I  agree  with my Bloomberg View
colleague  Caroline Baum  that these rules will be tough to
enforce and may have pernicious side effects.  Tax reform  could
send a more direct and effective signal to borrowers.  Yet better banking regulations are needed. Land and housing
prices typically go down after they go up. Banks that are
heavily invested in real estate during a boom can threaten the
system during a bust. Regulators can counter this risk by
pegging real estate values not to current market prices but to
longer-term average values. This would essentially increase the
 capital requirements  during booms for real-estate-heavy
institutions.  Finally, the government should stop offering borrowers an
underpriced default option through subsidized mortgage insurers
such as Fannie Mae,  Freddie Mac  and the FHA. We don’t need to
shut down Fannie and Freddie, but they should be required to
demand high premiums for  mortgage insurance .  Promoting homeownership by subsidizing borrowing is as
likely to lead to a foreclosure society as an ownership society.
The next housing and financial crisis is just around the corner
if government doesn’t stop fueling real estate speculation.
President Obama has a chance to remake housing policy -- he
should take it.  (Edward Glaeser, an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Edward Glaeser  at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 