-- Forcing Applicants to Disclose Offenses Breaks Human-Rights Law
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-29T13:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/forcing-applicants-to-disclose-offenses-breaks-human-rights-law.html
A law requiring people to disclose
past criminal offenses when applying for jobs dealing with
children or adults in supervised care violates their privacy
under European human-rights law, a U.K. court said.  Parliament should amend two laws to drop the requirements
in some cases, such as when the offenders were children at the
time or the incident happened a long time ago, a three-judge
appeals court panel in  London   ruled  today.  The case stems from lawsuits by people who broke the law or
received police cautions and later encountered problems with
employment, including a man whose offense when he was 11 years
old came back to haunt him when he applied for a job at a soccer
club.  The U.K. government will seek to appeal the case to the
country’s highest court and Jean-Christophe Gray, a spokesman
for Prime Minister David Cameron, said he was “disappointed”
with the ruling.  “The protection of children and vulnerable groups must not
be compromised,” the U.K. Home Office said today in an e-mailed
statement.  The disputed laws are incompatible with the European
Convention on Human Rights, which dozens of countries have
signed up to, the court ruled. While the laws protect people in
good standing from being affected by old violations, there are
“blanket” exemptions involving jobs relating to vulnerable
groups, the court said.  Parliament Amendments  “It will be a matter for Parliament to decide, in the
light of this judgment, what amendments to make,” the judges
said. “It is not for the court to prescribe the solution that
should be adopted.”  Another claimant, identified as “JB,” won her appeal even
though she was an adult when she broke the law.  “Her offense was of a trivial nature committed some eight
years before she applied for a post working with vulnerable
people,” the judges wrote. “She too is entitled to a
declaration” that the law is incompatible with human-rights
protections.  Lawyers for two unidentified claimants in the case said
they were affected negatively by a “blanket and indiscriminate
policy,” according to the judgment.  One of the claimants lost her appeal. The woman, identified
only as “AW,” was 16 at the time she committed a “very
serious offense” resulting in a five-year jail term that would
have been much longer if she’d been an adult, the judges said.  The  case  is The Queen on the Application of T v. Chief
Constable of Greater Manchester, Case No: C1/2012/0520,
C1/2011/1660 & C1/2011/1678, Court of Appeal (London).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  