-- Ford Falls Most in 7 Months on Worsening European Outlook
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2013-01-29T23:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/ford-profit-tops-estimates-on-f-series-boost.html
A widening loss in  Europe  sent  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  shares plunging the most in seven months, stealing the
market’s attention from fourth-quarter earnings that beat
estimates.  Shares for the second-largest U.S. automaker fell 4.6
percent to $13.14 yesterday, the biggest one-day drop since June
29 and wiped out most of their gains this year.  Ford surprised investors by increasing its estimate on
European losses to about $2 billion this year, from a previous
forecast of a loss exceeding $1.5 billion. Chief Financial
Officer Bob Shanks said in an interview that he was equally
surprised by yesterday’s selloff. The new loss estimate was
“not really a material change” from the $1.75 billion Ford
lost in Europe last year, he said.  “I’m a little disappointed,” he said in an interview. “I
expected there to be kind of raised eyebrows around a slightly
larger loss, but it’s a couple hundred million dollars on a
business that’s still going to make about the same amount of
money it made this year, which is $8 billion and with a revenue
of $135 billion or so. I would have thought that would have been
taken a bit more in stride.” Shanks referred to Ford’s 2012
pretax profit of $8 billion on revenue of $134.3 billion.  Yesterday’s slide occurred while fourth-quarter sales and
profit exceeded estimates. Excluding one-time items, the per-
share profit was 31 cents, exceeding the 25-cent average
estimate of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Automotive
revenue totaled $34.5 billion, beating the $33 billion average
estimate of 11 analysts. Total fourth-quarter revenue rose 5.5
percent to $36.5 billion.  ‘Soft’ Forecast  Investors see the company’s forecast for this year as
“soft,”  Brian Johnson , an analyst at Barclays Plc, wrote
yesterday in a report. In addition to the growing losses in
Europe, Ford forecast auto margins to be the same or lower than
last year, even as profit and market share grow in  North
America , while  Asia  and  South America  break even.  “Ford is forecasting no margin expansion” in North
America “and steeper losses in Europe along with the rest of
international only break-even,” wrote Johnson, who rates Ford
the  equivalent  of a hold. “This undercuts the popular investor
thesis that Ford offers significant earnings expansion from a
booming U.S. auto market while having ‘Europe-proofed’ its
guidance.”  Analysts expressed skepticism about Ford’s forecast after a
year in which it achieved a record 10.4 percent operating margin
in its North American operations on strong sales of its F-Series
pickups.  No Lowballing  “We believe there is an element of conservatism baked into
Ford’s soft 2013 guidance,” Ryan Brinkman, an analyst with
JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a note to investors. “Ford is
likely being particularly conservative as relates to 2013 North
American margin guidance, whereas the outlook for higher losses
in Europe is more likely truly reflective of deteriorating
industry conditions.”  Shanks said Ford isn’t lowballing in its forecasts in hopes
of a big beat later.  “I’ve seen those comments about potentially conservative
guidance,” Shanks said in the telephone interview. “I have to
tell you I’m staring at our real numbers. It’s 50-50. It really
is. We don’t try to figure out a way to provide guidance that
gives us an opportunity to beat.”  Ford lost $732 million in Europe in the fourth quarter and
sees the region hitting bottom this year, Shanks said.  “We’re seeing weakness in the industry; certainly it will
be lower than last year,” Shanks said earlier, during a
briefing at Ford’s headquarters in Dearborn,  Michigan . “It’s
just a very tough economic environment in Europe. We have a lot
of difficult times in front of us.”  CEO’s Strategy  Ford reported  net income  of $1.6 billion, or 40 cents a
share. The result compared with net income of $13.6 billion, or
$3.40 a share, a year earlier, when a tax gain boosted fourth-
quarter earnings.  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  is using Ford’s
turnaround in the U.S. to guide efforts to recover in Europe
more quickly than competitors including  General Motors Co. (GM) 
Rising demand for F-Series trucks in Ford’s home market paced a
record $8.34 billion annual pretax profit for the company’s
operations in North America, which countered overseas losses.
The region had a fourth-quarter pretax profit of $1.87 billion.  “Europe is a mess,” Dennis Virag, president of Automotive
Consulting Group in  Ann Arbor , Michigan, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “It’s going to be tough for anyone to make
any money in Europe for the foreseeable future until the
economies turn around.”  Ford’s Streak  Ford reported net income of $5.67 billion for the full
year. The profit in 2012 boosts the company’s earnings to $35.2
billion the past four years after losing $30.1 billion from 2006
through 2008.  Mulally, 67, revived Ford after arriving in 2006 from
 Boeing Co. (BA)  by using $23.4 billion that the company borrowed late
that year to overhaul its lineup with fuel-efficient models such
as the Focus and Fiesta. Those efforts were preceded by plans to
restructure the company’s North American operations beginning in
October 2005.  Ford faces about $500 million in restructuring costs
related to Europe in 2013, Shanks told reporters yesterday. The
company incurred about $70 million in restructuring costs in
2012, all of which came in the fourth quarter.  “I would hope eventually that we can have people see this
as an investment.” Shanks said in the interview. “Even though
it’s a cost, if you will, it’s an investment. We’re willing to
take those hits up front, particularly while the market’s weak.
Because when it comes back, we’d like to be as well positioned
as possible to take advantage of that.”  UAW Bonuses  Ford’s operating profit in North America topped the
company’s previous annual record of $6.2 billion in 2011. The
region’s operating margin of 10.4 percent for the full year also
surpassed 2010’s record of 8.4 percent.  The North American results will mean profit sharing of
about $8,300 on average to its 45,300 hourly workers represented
by the  United Auto Workers , a record payout that will occur in
March, according to a company statement. Ford paid an average of
$6,200 to each of its UAW-represented workers for 2011.  Ford also plans to contribute more this year to its pension
plans, which finished last year with an $18.7 billion shortfall
from $15.4 billion a year earlier. Ford plans to contribute
about $5 billion to pension plans in 2013, up from $3.4 billion
last year.  F-Series Demand  Increased demand for Ford’s F-Series, which has led the
full-size pickup segment in the U.S. for 36 years, is pacing the
company’s results at home. F-Series deliveries climbed 10
percent last year to 645,316, surpassing the 4.7 percent gain in
Ford’s total U.S. vehicle sales.  The F-Series accounts for 90 percent of Ford’s global auto
profits, according to a Morgan Stanley estimate, and is helping
underwrite the company’s European restructuring. Ford plans to
shutter three factories in Europe by the end of next year and
cut 6,200 jobs, or 13 percent of its workforce there, in an
effort to break even in the region by mid-decade.  “These things don’t happen in three months, six months or
even a year, but we will get there,” Shanks said of Ford’s
European restructuring during a conference call. “Now by mid-
decade, are we going to be getting an 8 or 9 percent margin in
Europe? No, we think a 6 to 8 percent margin is further out. But
we do think we’ll be above the zero line and starting to
generate some profit.”  Ford’s board signaled support for the company’s European
restructuring plan by doubling the quarterly dividend earlier
this month. The first-quarter dividend of 10 cents per share
will be payable March 1 to shareholders as of today.  European Ills  Demand in Europe fell 7.8 percent to 12.5 million vehicle
registrations, the lowest in 19 years, according to the European
Automobile Manufacturers’ Association, or ACEA. Ford’s
registrations plunged 13 percent to 939,409, the Brussels-based
trade group said earlier this month.  Automakers have announced 30,000 job cuts in Europe since
July. GM, which along with Ford sees  Germany  at risk of slipping
into recession, said last week that its Opel brand may shutter a
factory in that country two years earlier than planned as the
European auto market sinks for a sixth straight year. The
factory employs 3,100 workers.  Job Cuts  Renault SA (RNO) , the automaker whose sales in Europe dropped the
most in 2012, announced plans this month to cut 7,500 positions,
or 17 percent of its French workforce, in the next four years to
reduce costs.  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  yesterday was ordered by a
French court to pause its restructuring plans as workers in the
country went on strike to protest job losses. Prior to
yesterday’s order, Europe’s second-largest carmaker planned to
extend reductions in  France  to 11,200 posts.  Ford is still planning new products for Europe, including
the addition of the Mustang sports car and two sport-utility
vehicle offerings. The automaker is adding the subcompact
EcoSport SUV, just four meters (13 feet, 1 inch) long, and the
Edge midsized utility to its European lineup, which already
includes the Kuga compact, known in the U.S. as the Escape.  “The No. 1 thing is to continue to invest not only in the
product but also in the brand while we work the cost side, just
like we did in the U.S.,” Mulally said of Europe on the
conference call with analysts and reporters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  