-- Foreign Capital Coming Too Fast to Costa Rica, Liberman Says
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-01-29T19:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/foreign-capital-has-come-too-fast-to-costa-rica-liberman-says.html
Foreign capital inflows have rushed
into  Costa Rica  too quickly, sparking the government’s efforts
to weaken Latin America’s third-best performing currency this
year, Vice President Luis Liberman said.  The government is seeking congressional approval to raise
deposit requirements on investors and boost taxes on interest
paid abroad after inflows rose as global investors search for
higher yields, Liberman said in an interview yesterday in San
Jose. The measures are designed to be temporary, he said.  “It’s too much, too fast,” Liberman, who heads President
Laura Chinchilla’s economic team, said. “Because of the size of
the country and the current international economic conditions
where  interest rates  in some of the developed countries are so
low, we need to put these measures in place.”  Costa Rica’s moves came after currencies in  Poland ,  Romania 
and  Colombia  reached their strongest levels this month since at
least February 2012.  Russia ’s central bank warned Jan. 16 that
the world is on the brink of a fresh ‘‘currency war.”  Costa Rica’s currency, the colon, has gained 1.4 percent
against the dollar this year through yesterday, trailing only
the Brazilian real and the Guyanese dollar among 20 Latin
American and Caribbean economies tracked by Bloomberg. The colon
was little changed at 501.14 per dollar at 1:11 p.m. local time.  International Reserves  The entrance of speculative capital into Costa Rica, where
the  interest rate  on deposits is 8.6 percent, has forced the
central bank to purchase more than $1.5 billion in the last 10
months to stabilize the colon. That hasn’t cut into  central bank
reserves , which have reached $7.1 billion this month from $4.6
billion a year ago.  The government’s proposed currency measures won’t affect
long-term foreign investment in Central America’s second-biggest
economy, which hosts companies including  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and
 Intel Corp , Liberman said.  “Costa Rica is attractive,” Liberman, 66, said. “Our
economic growth was 5 percent last year, which is very stable,
and inflation of 4.5 percent, which is very low.”  Liberman also said that Costa Rica’s “crawling band”
currency system, which allows the colon’s value to fluctuate
daily between a fixed ceiling and floor, will eventually be
abandoned by the central bank.  Crawling Band  “No country has a permanent system of having a ceiling and
a floor always,” he said. “When is the optimal moment to move
away from that system? That has to be decided by the central
bank.”  The  Finance Ministry  will announce ideas for a new fiscal
consolidation plan as soon as March in an attempt to pare the
country’s budget deficit, estimated at 4.5 percent of gross
domestic product, Liberman said. The plan will increase tax
collection and reduce spending in hopes of narrowing the gap by
3 percentage points prior to the start of a new government in
2014.  “It is an act of political responsibility to try to find a
long-term solution to this issue,” he said. “Leaving a fiscal
deficit of 1.5 percent of GDP is very manageable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose , Costa Rica at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  