-- Forint Snaps Longest Losing Streak in 8 Months on Policy Tools
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-01-29T17:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/forint-snaps-five-days-of-declines-before-hungary-rate-meeting.html
The forint halted its longest losing
streak in eight months and  Hungary ’s yields fell to a 2 1/2-year
low as the central bank cut interest rates for a sixth month and
cautioned on the use of new unconventional policy measures.  The currency appreciated 0.9 percent to 295.7 per euro by
5:27 p.m. in Budapest, the steepest rally since Jan. 17. It
weakened for a fifth day yesterday, the longest stretch of
losses since May 18. Yields on the government’s three-year bonds
dropped nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 5.48
percent, the lowest level since May 2010.  Hungary’s central bankers, who cut the main rate to 5.5
percent from 5.75 percent, said that expanding the bank’s policy
toolkit is only useful in “acute” turmoil, according to a
statement. The forint dropped 2.8 percent through yesterday
after Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said last month that the
next governor, who takes over in March, should “bravely use
unorthodox tools” to help the economy recover from its second
recession in four years.  “With this reference, the Monetary Council created a
policy anchor, aiming at reducing the perceived risks of
succession,” Gabor Ambrus, a London-based economist at 4Cast
Ltd., wrote in an e-mailed report today.  Matolcsy is the most likely successor to Andras Simor,
whose term as central bank president expires in March, according
to the Index and hvg.hu news websites.  Today’s rate cut, which brought the benchmark rate to the
lowest level since 2010, matched the forecast of 27 out of 28
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Sandor Jobbagy, an analyst at
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA’s CIB unit, forecast no change.  Fiscal Consolidation  Hungary should use further monetary easing “very
cautiously,” the International Monetary Fund said in a
statement yesterday after a regular review of the country’s
economy. Hungary will probably overshoot its budget deficit
targets through 2015 and needs a shift in policy to make fiscal
consolidation sustainable and to boost growth, the IMF said.  Four policy makers appointed by lawmakers of Prime Minister
Viktor Orban’s Fidesz party have outvoted Simor and his two
deputies at each rate meeting from August through December.
Today’s vote was also “tight,” Simor said, without giving an
exact breakdown.  “We are penciling in one more rate cut over the near
term,”  Annika Lindblad , a Helsinki-based analyst at Nordea Bank
AB, said in an e-mailed note today.  Forward-rate agreements predicting borrowing costs in nine
months fell four basis points to 4.69 percent, 101 basis points
below the Budapest interbank offered rate to which it settles.
The spread has narrowed from a three-year high of 1.39
percentage points reached in December.  “The Monetary Council is very likely going to proceed with
the recent practice of cutting the base rate,”  Janos Samu , a
Budapest-based economist at broker Concorde Ertekpapirt Zrt.,
wrote in a research report today. “We lower our year-end
forecast of 5.5 percent to 5 percent seeing the determination of
the Monetary Council to cling to the easing cycle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  