-- Former Cipriani London Restaurant Broke U.K. Ban on Family Name
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-01-29T14:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/former-cipriani-london-restaurant-broke-u-k-ban-on-family-name.html
The high-end Italian eatery formerly
known as Cipriani London broke a court order banning the use of
the family name in the owner’s U.K. restaurants.  Giuseppe Cipriani lost a bid to use his own name as part of
the logos for the C London and Downtown Mayfair restaurants, in
a ruling by Judge Richard Arnold today.  “The average consumer would think the services denoted by
the trade mark and the sign came from the same, or economically
linked,” businesses, Arnold said in his written decision.  Cipriani London, visited by celebrities including  Elton John ,  Naomi Campbell  and David and  Victoria Beckham , was forced
to change its name following a trademark ruling two years ago.
The London Court of Appeal rejected the Cipriani family’s
argument they should be allowed to use their own name, upholding
a ruling against Cipriani International SA and Giuseppe
Cipriani.  The lawsuit seeking to block the name for restaurants in
the U.K. was filed in 2006 by the owners of Hotel Cipriani in
Venice, Ristorante Hotel Cipriani at the Lapa Palace Hotel in
Lisbon and Ristorante Villa Cipriani at Reid’s Palace Hotel in
Madeira, Portugal. All three were then part of the  Orient-
Express Hotels Ltd. (OEH)  Group.  Lawyers representing Giuseppe Cipriani and Orient-Express
Hotels, didn’t immediately respond to calls seeking comment.  The Cipriani empire began in 1931, when Giuseppe’s father
opened Harry’s Bar in  Venice . The idea for the bar came from
Harry Pickering, an American who had borrowed money from
Giuseppe. After repaying the loan and an additional sum, he
suggested that Cipriani use the money for the bar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  