-- France Plans to Hold First Trial on Rwandan Genocide
-- B y   D a v i d   W h i t e h o u s e
-- 2013-01-29T10:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/france-plans-to-hold-first-trial-on-rwanda-genocide-by-next-year.html
France plans to hold its first trial
resulting from the  Rwandan genocide  as the 20th anniversary of
the attempt to eliminate the country’s ethnic Tutsi population
approaches, the lawyer who will prosecute the case said.  Pascal Simbikangwa, who headed  Rwanda ’s intelligence agency
in 1994, is set to stand trial later this year or early in 2014,
Simon Foreman, a lawyer with Soulez Lariviere & Associes, said
in an interview at his office in Paris.  About 800,000 people were killed between April and June
1994 when Hutu extremists massacred Tutsis and moderate Hutus.
Rwanda’s government accuses Simbikangwa of organizing and arming
militias, torturing Tutsis and preparing lists of people to be
killed. Simbikangwa’s lawyers Alexandra Bourgeot and Epstein
Fabrice said yesterday that their client denies all the
allegations against him. They declined to comment further.  The approaching anniversary makes the issue of the genocide
suspects in France “impossible to ignore,” Foreman said on Jan
18. France’s judiciary would “hate to reach that anniversary”
without a trial, he said.  France provided military training to Hutu-led Rwanda before
the genocide as the country’s government sought to repel an
invasion of rebel Tutsis from neighboring  Uganda . Rwanda’s
current government says this support has contributed to the
delay in prosecuting genocide suspects on French soil.  Doubting Thomas  Simbikangwa , who moves with the aid of a wheelchair, was
arrested on the French island of Mayotte in the  Indian Ocean  in
2008. He is being held in prison in France.  Foreman will prosecute the case on behalf of an association
of civil plaintiffs, the Collectif des Parties Civiles pour le
Rwanda, based in the French city of Reims.  “I am a doubting Thomas,” the collectif president, Alain
Gauthier, said in an interview in Reims about prospects for a
trial. “When I can see it and feel it, I will believe it.”
Gauthier’s Rwandan wife Dafroza lost her mother and other family
members during the genocide. The collectif first filed a case
against Simbikangwa in February 2009.  Rwanda broke ties with France in 2006 when a French judge
issued arrest warrants for associates of current Rwandan
President  Paul Kagame  for shooting down a plane carrying former
President Juvenal Habyarimana in April 1994. Kagame denies any
role in the incident, which was the catalyst for the genocide.
The countries patched up their differences when former French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  visited Rwanda in February 2010.  Implications  “We have seen a little from the French and we are waiting
to see what this implies,” Rwanda’s Justice Minister Tharcisse
Karugarama said in a telephone interview from Kigali. “They
should be transferring genocide suspects back in Rwanda to face
trial, if not they should be tried wherever they are held.”  In September 2011, France rejected a request by Rwanda to
extradite Agathe Habyarimana, the wife of the late president,
whom the Rwandan government accuses of playing a part in the
genocide.  “There was certainly a blockage caused by the breakdown in
relations” between the countries, Foreman said. “ France  and
Rwanda have had a tough relationship. There may be traces of
that in the judicial system. There is a lack of trust.”  Frequent Visits  French judges investigating cases against genocide suspects
couldn’t get authorization to travel to Rwanda when diplomatic
relations were severed, or get relief from their regular
workload, Foreman said. Visits by judges to Rwanda have become
frequent since France created a genocide investigation unit in
2011, he said.  Including  Simbikangwa , the collectif has 25 cases
outstanding in France arising from the Rwandan genocide. Foreman
is one of eight lawyers that work on the cases for little or no
payment. Foreman said the trial is likely to lead to further
trials in France.  French Justice Ministry spokesman Pierre Rance declined to
confirm that Simbikangwa’s trial will take place. All steps in
the continuing investigation would have to be completed before
any trial, he said in an e-mailed response to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Whitehouse in Paris.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 