-- France Bankruptcy Comment, Labor Protests Put Sapin in Hot Seat
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-01-29T10:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/france-bankruptcy-comment-labor-protests-put-sapin-in-hot-seat.html
French Labor Minister Michel Sapin is
finding himself in the hot seat.  Unions representing workers at companies including Arcelor
Mittal, Credit Agricole SA, Faurecia SA,  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ,
Sanofi, Valeo SA and several others are gathering in front of
his ministry this afternoon to protest thousands of job cuts
across  France , leaving the country with jobless claims at the
highest in 15 years.  The demonstrations come just days after Sapin’s remarks in a
radio interview on Jan. 27 that France was “totally bankrupt”
set off a storm. Asked on Radio J about Former Prime Minister
Francois Fillon's comment in September 2007 that France was a
“bankrupt state,” Sapin said, “But it’s a totally bankrupt
state,” adding “that’s the reason we have to put deficit-
reductions programs in place.” The minister immediately took
back the statement, saying he was being “ironic.”  “Michel Sapin was referring to something  Francois Fillon 
said in 2007,” Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said on France
Info radio yesterday. “What he meant was that the state’s
financial situation was worrying in 2007, it’s more worrying now
because we’ve accumulated 600 billion euros more in debt.  “But the term isn’t appropriate. France isn’t a country
that’s had to shut public services. We’re borrowing today on the
markets at 2.2 percent, 60 basis points more than  Germany ,
that’s down from 200 basis points. France is a country that is
completely solvent.”  ‘Massive Firing’  Sapin said he wanted to point out that “there’s a social
and economic emergency,” requiring the government to act
quickly to boost growth and address an  unemployment rate  that’s
at 10.3 percent. France’s jobless claims rose to 3.13 million in
November, the nation’s employment body’s figures show.  “Not a week passes when there isn’t a massive firing by a
company that is making enormous profits,” the unions protesting
today said in a statement.  Demanding that all firings be blocked, they called on
President  Francois Hollande  to keep his campaign promise to stop
job cuts, reminding him that their support helped him win the
presidency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  