-- Gold Assets Head for Biggest Monthly Decline Since December 2011
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2013-01-29T14:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/gold-holdings-poised-for-worst-drop-since-2011-on-recovery-signs.html
Gold holdings in exchange-traded
products are poised for the biggest monthly decline in more than
a year as global economic recovery curbed demand for the metal.  Assets contracted 0.8 percent so far in January, the
largest decrease since December 2011, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The holdings, which reached a record in December,
dropped to a two-month low of 2,610.272 metric tons yesterday.  Analysts from Credit Suisse Group AG to Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. are calling for gold to peak in 2013 after a 12-year rally
as the global economy rebounds. U.S. durable-goods orders rose
in December for an unprecedented fourth consecutive month, data
showed yesterday, while  China’s economy  snapped a seven-quarter
slowdown in the final three months of 2012. The countries are
the world’s two largest economies.  “As the global economy shows more signs of growth, the
incentive to hold gold is reduced,” said Feng Liang, an analyst
at GF Futures Co., a unit of  China ’s third-biggest listed
brokerage. “There will still be long-term holders of gold like
central banks, and that will keep prices supported,” Feng said
from Guangzhou, China.  Gold for April delivery gained 0.6 percent to $1,664.60 an
ounce at 9:56 a.m. on Comex in  New York . Futures fell 0.7
percent this year, lagging behind advances in silver, platinum
and palladium, metals used mainly in industry that benefit from
faster economic growth. ETP holdings of silver, platinum and
palladium expanded at least 2.7 percent in January, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Record Holdings  ETPs trade like shares and enable investors to hold
commodities without taking physical delivery. Assets in gold-
backed products have risen every year since 2004, expanding 12
percent in 2012 as futures rose 7 percent.  While the holdings have dropped this month, they remain
within 1 percent of the record 2,632.5 tons reached on Dec. 20.
Morgan Stanley forecasts that investors will add a net 100 tons
of gold to ETPs this year, and has forecast higher average
prices each quarter of 2013 as central banks maintain stimulus
and expand holdings, according Jan. 24 report.  Central banks in  South Korea ,  Brazil  and  Russia  expanded
 gold reserves  last year, according to International Monetary
Fund data. Countries bought 373.9 tons in the first nine months
of 2012, according to the World Gold Council, which said full-
year purchases would probably be at the lower end of a range
from 450 to 500 tons. Central banks bought 456 tons in 2011.  U.S. Recovery  Gold’s bull market is over as the  U.S. economy  pick up,
Allan Hochreiter (Pty) Ltd. Chief Executive Officer Rene Hochreiter, the top forecaster in the London Bullion Market
Association’s 2012 poll, said this month. The metal’s appeal is
set to diminish as so-called fear trades fade, according to  Tom Kendall , head of precious-metals research at Credit Suisse.  The euro-area crisis, which had driven speculation that the
common currency may fragment, has shown signs of abating as
yields on sovereign debt of countries from  Spain  to Greece
decline. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said this
month that the worst may be over for the region.  Gold futures are poised for a fourth monthly decline in
January, the worst run since the period to last May. The  MSCI
All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of shares has risen 12 percent over the
past year, reaching the highest level since May 2011 today.  Futures sank to $1,626 an ounce on Jan. 4, the lowest price
since August, after minutes from the  Federal Open Market
Committee ’s December meeting showed that U.S. central bankers
debated an end to asset purchases this year. Bookings for U.S.
goods meant to last at least three years advanced 4.6 percent
last month, a Commerce Department report showed yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  