-- Guardiola Eyeing Suarez in Bayern Spending Spree: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-01-29T10:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/guardiola-eyeing-suarez-in-bayern-spending-spree-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Rodgers Warning  Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  warned his players they
must shape up or ship out after the 3-2 F.A. Cup defeat at
League One club Oldham two days ago, the  Daily Mail  reported.  “To go out, having played how we did, was bitterly
disappointing,” Rodgers said. “It’s another competition we
have failed to progress in. If they are bright, they will learn.
If they don’t, they will find themselves playing in League One
regretting the opportunity they have missed.”  Liverpool’s  Luis Suarez  is a target for incoming Bayern
Munich manager Pep Guardiola, who will have 240 million pounds
($377 million) to spend in the offseason, the  Independent 
reported, citing French daily L’Equipe.  Holt to Leave Norwich?  Grant Holt  will be allowed to leave Norwich City if the
team lands Celtic’s Gary Hooper or Ricky van Wolfswinkel of
Sporting Lisbon, the  Guardian  reported.  Holt, who scored 17 goals in 38 matches for Norwich last
season, has also attracted interest from Sunderland,  Aston Villa 
and Celtic, the paper said.  Winger Wanted  Wigan offered 2.75 million pounds for Ecuador winger
Jefferson Montero after the club missed out on signing the
Republic of Ireland’s Aiden McGeady from  Spartak Moscow , the
 Daily Mail  reported.  Montero, who plays for  Mexico ’s Monarcas Morelia, was
wanted by Celtic last summer.  Fulham Signing?  Fulham will sign Borussia Moenchengladbach and Belgium
striker Igor de Camargo, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The 29-year-old Brazilian-born player may join the London
side on loan initially, before signing a permanent agreement
once the season is over.  De Camargo, who’s scored 14 goals in 58 appearances in the
Bundesliga in the past three years, has been given permission by
his club to leave, the Mirror added.  Chelsea Tension?  There was tension between Chelsea players in the 2-2 F.A.
draw at Brentford last weekend, the  Guardian  reported, citing
the home team’s Clayton Donaldson.  He said Chelsea defender  Ashley Cole  grew increasingly
unhappy with what he saw as a lack of movement from his
teammates in attack.  “He was always mumbling something. He was saying about the
forward players not showing, saying things like ‘He needs to be
there’ and pointing,” the newspaper quoted Donaldson as saying.
“ You could just see straight away that he was getting
frustrated. That was a good thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  