-- Guggenheim to Hire as Many as 10 Managers for Multistrategy Fund
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-01-29T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/guggenheim-to-hire-as-many-as-10-managers-for-multistrategy-fund.html
Guggenheim Global Trading, a
subsidiary of closely held financial-services firm Guggenheim
Partners LLC, plans to hire as many as 10 portfolio managers
this year to expand its  multistrategy  hedge fund.  GGT, which employs 15 portfolio managers, may have as many
as 25 by year-end, according to Loren Katzovitz and Patrick Hughes, partners at Guggenheim Partners. It’s in talks with
several candidates, Katzovitz and Hughes said last week in an
interview in New York.  The trading unit will add managers in sector-specific long-
short equity strategies, including utilities, energy and health
care, Katzovitz and Hughes said. GGT seeks to attract managers
who want to focus solely on investing, instead of the business
and operational responsibilities that accompany opening a hedge
fund, such as asset raising, that have become more difficult
after the 2008 financial crisis, they said.  “A lot of these guys are attracted because they don’t want
to have to set up their own infrastructure and raise all the
capital,” Katzovitz said.  GGT, which started trading in February 2012, has more than
$500 million in assets from Guggenheim Partners and the
commitment may grow to $2 billion over the next several years,
Katzovitz and Hughes said. Guggenheim Partners, which has
headquarters in  Chicago  and New York, included members of the
Guggenheim family among its initial investors and now has more
than $160 billion under management.  Net Exposure  The multistrategy fund runs  long-short equity , event-
driven, merger-arbitrage and quantitative strategies. Long-short
equity, whose managers can bet on rising or falling stocks,
comprises about 60 percent of assets. Event-driven funds seek to
capitalize on corporate events such as spinoffs, restructurings
and bankruptcies; merger-arbitrage managers buy and sell the
stocks of two merging companies to profit on the price
discrepancy; quantitative funds use mathematical models to
decide when to buy and sell.  The unit’s managers have an average of six years’ of
experience as portfolio managers, Katzovitz said. The fund seeks
to hire those who can produce “high single-digit returns”
based on a maximum of 15 percent to 20 percent net exposure,
they said. Net exposure is calculated by subtracting the
percentage of a fund’s short positions, or bets on falling
securities, from its long holdings, or wagers on rising stocks
or bonds.  Equity Stakes  Managers must comply with investment guidelines agreed upon
with Katzovitz and Hughes regarding net and gross exposure, they
said. Managers are also required to invest a portion of their
profits in GGT and have the option after two years of owning an
equity stake, they said. The more profitable a manager, the
larger the equity share he or she can take. GGT’s portfolio
managers receive about 15 percent of profits in performance
fees, they said.  GGT this year may start an office in  London  focused on
European strategies that would mirror the fund’s U.S.
operations, Katzovitz said. It’s also analyzing opportunities in
 Japan .  Katzovitz and Hughes, both 51, have worked together since
1993 and started building GGT in 2011. It employs about 60
people, half of whom are portfolio managers, traders or
analysts, Katzovitz and Hughes said. The rest make up the
operational, legal and compliance staff.  Bank Spinoffs  Guggenheim Partners, whose chief executive officer is Los
Angeles Dodgers Chairman  Mark Walter , set up GGT because
regulatory changes made it easier to hire experienced traders,
Katzovitz and Hughes said in 2011. The so-called Volcker rule
led banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley
to shut or spin off proprietary-trading units at the same time
as new registration requirements made it harder for traders to
start  hedge funds .  Katzovitz and Hughes met while at securities firm Kidder,
Peabody & Co. in 1993 and worked together at Royal Bank of
 Canada , where Katzovitz was co-head of global equity derivatives
and proprietary trading and Hughes helped lead the alternative-
assets business.  They joined Guggenheim in 2002 and started a hedge fund-of-
funds managed-account platform called Guggenheim Advisors. The
company sold 71.5 percent of Guggenheim Advisors to Bank of
Ireland Plc in 2006 and repurchased it in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  