-- Republican Bid to Alter Electoral Vote System Falters
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2013-01-30T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/michigan-governor-skeptical-of-electoral-vote-change.html
A Republican push aimed at shifting
electoral votes to the party’s future presidential candidates is
stalling after a legislative committee in  Virginia  rejected such
a change and  Michigan ’s governor voiced skepticism about the
effort.  Virginia’s Senate Privileges and Elections Committee
yesterday killed a bill to award electoral votes by
congressional district. The measure would have ended a winner-
take-all system used by 48 states to give all their electoral
votes to the statewide popular vote winner in presidential
races. The Republican-led panel voted 11-4 against the bill.  President  Barack Obama , who won Virginia and its 13
electoral votes in carrying the state by four percentage points
in the 2012 election, would have received four electoral votes
under the measure.  In another blow to efforts to replace the winner-take-all
method, Michigan Governor Rick Snyder said he is skeptical of a
Republican proposal in his state to adopt the congressional
district system for allocating electoral votes.  “You don’t want to change the playing field so it’s an
unfair advantage to someone, and in a lot of ways, we want to
make sure we’re reflecting the vote of the people, and this
could challenge that,” Snyder, a Republican, said on Bloomberg
Television’s “Bottom Line” yesterday. “I don’t think this is
the appropriate time to really look at it.”  Similar moves to scrap the winner-take-all allocation in
favor of a congressional district system are under consideration
in  Pennsylvania  and  Wisconsin .  Obama’s Total  The push from Republican legislators to change the
electoral vote allocation in their states comes after Obama was
re-elected in November with 332 electoral votes to 206 for
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney . Maine and  Nebraska  are the
only states that don’t use the winner-take-all system.  Awarding electoral votes by congressional district
generally would favor Republicans because Democrats are
clustered in large metropolitan areas, while Republicans tend to
be more spread out throughout the nation. Romney won at least
225 of the 435 congressional districts even though he trailed
Obama nationwide by 5 million votes, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Changed Outcome  Romney, who won the popular vote in 24 of the 50 states,
would have gotten more than the 270 electoral votes needed for
victory if the 2012 election were re-run under a nationwide
system of awarding one electoral vote for each congressional
district won and two electoral votes for each state carried.  If just Pennsylvania, with 20 electoral votes, Michigan,
with 16, Wisconsin, with 10, and Virginia made the changes that
have been under consideration in each state, Obama would have
won re-election with 296 electoral votes to 242 for Romney.  Although Republicans currently control the government in
the four states, Democrats have prevailed in every presidential
election in Pennsylvania and Michigan since 1992 and in
Wisconsin since 1988. Virginia had been a Republican stronghold
in presidential elections since 1968 until Obama carried it in
2008 and last year.  In Wisconsin, Republican Governor  Scott Walker  hasn’t taken
a position on adopting the congressional district system for
allocating electoral votes. He has expressed concern that doing
so may diminish his state’s importance as a politically
competitive area that draws visits from presidential candidates.  “I’m not embracing it,” Walker told the Milwaukee
Journal-Sentinel Jan. 26.  Individual Choice  In Pennsylvania, the bill to alter the allocation system
was introduced by seven Republicans on Jan. 14 and awaits action
by a state legislative committee.  Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus said
on Jan. 26 he was “pretty intrigued” by the proposals, and
that it’s an issue for individual state legislatures to decide.  Haley Barbour , a former Mississippi governor and onetime
RNC chairman, opposes the idea.  “I don’t think anybody can predict with any form of
precision who it’ll help from this election to the next,”
Barbour said in interview that aired last weekend on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in  Washington  at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 