-- Micro Digs’ Sliding TV, Murphy Bed Tempt Singles: Review
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2013-01-29T17:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/micro-digs-sliding-tv-murphy-bed-tempt-singles-review.html
Here’s a startling fact: About 33
percent of  New Yorkers  live alone. So why doesn’t the housing
market cater to them?  One reason: Right now, the smallest legal studio permitted
by  New York  housing regulations is 400 square feet.  “Making Room: New Models for Housing New Yorkers”
displays provocative ways the city can adapt itself to changing
demographics and behavior. (In  Washington  and  San Francisco , the
number of singles is even higher.)  These are not places for pack rats, as the show at the
 Museum of the City of New York  makes amusingly, abundantly
clear.  The humble Murphy bed, once a floozy’s fallback, stages a
high-style reappearance in a mockup of a “micro-apartment.” A
nicely finished wall panel conceals a bed that pivots to the
floor with little effort.  In the 300-square-foot mockup designed by New York
architect Amie Gross, a table on wheels stores beneath a kitchen
counter. Beneath the table is a cart that holds plates and
bowls. A flat-screen TV slides along a rail attached to built-in
shelves.  Suave Italians  The suave, Italian built-ins, designed by Clei Srl and sold
by a company called  Resource Furniture , are expensive, which is
why you don’t see them in a micro-apartment development that
will test the concept.  New York’s  Department of Housing Preservation and
Development  held a design competition, cutely called “adAPT.”  If the micro-apartment concept flies, the city may waive
some rules to encourage builders to make more of them. ( Michael R. Bloomberg , the mayor of New York and founder of Bloomberg LP,
is promoting the micro-apartment effort as a way to lower
housing costs. He announced the winning team at the museum.)  The winning team consisted of Monadnock Development LLC,
 Actors Fund Housing Development Corp.  and Brooklyn-based
 nARCHITECTS .  Eric Bunge and Mimi Hoang, partners in nARCHITECTS,
designed apartments as small as 250 square feet that focus on
budget more than style. The 55 units will be built of brick-
faced prefabricated steel modules and erected to 10 stories on
East 27th Street.  The kitchen and bath are large enough to accommodate
wheelchairs. The tiny living/sleeping zone has a 9-foot-wide
sliding door that opens to a glass railing in an arrangement
called a Juliet balcony -- a terrace on the cheap.  Communal Dens  Rents will be as low as $940 a month for tenants who meet
income restrictions. The developer says the top market rates
should fall below the $2,400 monthly minimum average for studios
in new construction.  The winning design and several finalists are regrettably
displayed only on computer monitors in the exhibition.  Shared areas grow as private space shrinks. With lockers
and bike storage comes a skylit fitness room and a sociable
lobby parlor. Little communal dens are provided on each floor.
An eighth-floor party room leads to a roof deck and community
garden.  Such amenities are advertised though rarely used in high-
end buildings. They strike me as an essential antidote to
claustrophobia in a pod building.  Adult Playground  One finalist team,  HWKN Architects  with  James McCullar
Architecture , created an adult playground with bar, hot tub,
climbing wall and communal dining room on a rooftop of
crystalline shapes planted with vines.  I fear micro-apartments could become grim, overpriced boxes
crammed into dim blocks -- as today’s studios often are.
Thankfully, “Making Room,” working with the think tank
Citizens Housing and Planning Council, displays alternatives to
the city’s worst housing abuses. We have all read too many
stories about illegally subdivided family houses that end up
turning into fire traps for their poor inhabitants.  Architect Deborah Gans  cleverly shows a prototype that adds
little wings to the kind of house that slumlords like to cut up.
She calls them barnacles, but they open basements and attics to
light and air.  Housing specialist Jonathan Kirschenfeld shows how
apartments that flex according to working needs or family
changes can transform empty lots along the Grand Concourse in
the Bronx into amenable courtyard buildings.  “Making Room” is on view through Sept. 15 at the Museum
of the City of New York, 1220 Fifth Ave. Information: +1-212-
534-1672;  http://www.mcny.org . To see a slideshow of the micro
apartments, click  here .  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of  Bloomberg News . He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on books and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on tech.  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net ;
 http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 