-- Tiger Woods Opens His PGA Tour Season With 8th Torrey Pines Win
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-29T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/tiger-woods-opens-pga-tour-season-with-4-shot-torrey-pines-win.html
Tiger Woods  started his U.S.  PGA
Tour  season with yet another win at  Torrey Pines .  In closing out a four-shot victory yesterday at the Farmers
Insurance Open, Woods became the first golfer to win eight PGA
Tour events on the same course. It was his seventh Farmers
Insurance Open win, and he also captured the 2008  U.S. Open  --
the most recent of his 14 major titles -- at Torrey Pines in  La
Jolla ,  California .  Woods finished with a four-round total of 14-under 274,
four shots better than fellow Americans Josh Teater and
defending champion Brandt Snedeker. The other six times Woods
started his year with a victory on the PGA Tour he went on to
capture at least four titles in each of those seasons. In five
of the previous six, he captured major championships.  “Does it give me confidence? Absolutely,” Woods, who
received $1.1 million, said at a news conference. “I’m excited
about this year. This is a nice way to start.”  Woods, 37, held on for the win even though he played the
final five holes in 4 over par yesterday. Woods held a six-shot
lead with 11 holes remaining two days ago when play was halted
by darkness, pushing the event to a Monday finish. His group
needed almost four hours to complete the round yesterday and was
forced to wait on many of the remaining holes.  “At the end I just started losing my patience,” Woods
said. “It was so slow out there. We played the first nine holes
in just over three hours and three of them were par-3s. That’s
not fast. But I had a nice lead, so I just needed to stay
upright and I’d be fine.”  Abu Dhabi  Woods last week failed to qualify for weekend play at the
 Abu Dhabi  HSBC Championship on the European Tour, his first
event of 2013. Woods announced he’d start his PGA Tour season at
Torrey Pines on Jan. 10, the same day Qatar Golf Association
President Hassan al Nuaimi told reporters Woods was “not
worth” a $3 million appearance fee to take part in the Qatar
Masters, which  England ’s Chris Wood won with an eagle at the
final hole for his first European Tour title.  Woods now has 75 career wins on the PGA Tour, second to  Sam Snead , who claimed 82 titles.  “I drove the ball great this week and my short game is
really coming around,” Woods said.  Woods’s seven titles at the tournament outside  San Diego 
match his total at the World Golf Championships-Bridgestone
Invitational and the Arnold Palmer Invitational.  “I think I won six junior worlds here as well,” Woods
said. “For some reason I’ve always done well here. I just feel
comfortable.”  Taking Charge  Woods opened the tournament with a 4-under-par 68 on the
more difficult North Course on Jan. 24 and followed it up with a
7-under 65 on the South Course the next day to take a two-shot
lead.  Fog wiped out play on Jan. 26, forcing organizers to try to
play the third and fourth rounds the next day. Woods shot a
third-round 69 and birdied three of the first seven holes during
his final round two days ago before play was halted.  Returning to the course yesterday, Woods had five straight
pars before making a birdie on the par-5 13th hole. He then
bogeyed the 14th hole, double-bogeyed the 15th and added another
bogey at the 17th hole before closing the round with a two-putt
par at the par-5 18th hole.  “A win always makes it special,” Woods said. “Playing
the way I did for most of this tournament, I felt like I should
have won. I put myself in a position where I had a big enough
lead. I know I can do that. It was nice to be able to do it.”  Woods previously started his PGA Tour season with wins at
Torrey Pines in 2003, 2006, 2007 and 2008. He also won the event
in 1999 and 2005.  The PGA Tour next moves to  Arizona  for the $6.2 million
Phoenix Open from Jan. 31 to Feb. 3 at TPC Scottsdale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  