-- Illinois Trails California After Pension-Fix Bungle: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-01-29T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/illinois-trails-california-after-pension-fix-bungle-muni-credit.html
Illinois  is losing in the battle of
lowest-rated U.S. states as its debt approaches the weakest in
at least 18 years relative to  California ’s.  Lawmakers failed to repair the nation’s worst-funded
pension system this month, leading  Standard & Poor’s  to
downgrade Illinois and threaten more cuts. In contrast,
California, with the same A- credit grade -- six steps below AAA
-- is set for its first surplus in a decade and may earn a
rating increase.  Investors have been voting with their wallets as Illinois
plans to sell $500 million of general-obligations this week.
Buyers demand about 0.82 percentage point of  extra yield  to own
debt of Illinois issuers rather than California. That’s up about
50 percent in the past month and close to the highest since at
least 1994, data compiled by Bloomberg show. For  Robert Miller 
at Wells Capital Management and Chris Alwine at Vanguard Group
Inc., Illinois bonds are still too expensive.  The state “should expect continued wide spreads if these
problems aren’t addressed,” said Alwine, head of muni funds at
 Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based Vanguard, which manages $106
billion of local bonds. “The market has to put more pressure on
issuers in these types of situations.”  January Trigger  Even as investors favor riskier, higher-yielding debt amid
the lowest  muni yields  in a generation, the case of Illinois
shows there’s a limit to investor tolerance.  The extra yield on Illinois and its localities has grown
since lawmakers ended their 2012 session Jan. 8 without
restructuring the retirement system. The plans had about 43
percent of assets needed to cover obligations in 2011, the
nation’s lowest ratio, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn  has likened the $97 billion
of unfunded liabilities to a python strangling the state’s
finances. S&P cited inaction in cutting Illinois’s rating Jan.
25.  After beating California last year for the first time since
2008, bonds of Illinois issuers trail the Golden State in 2013,
returning 0.78 percent to the latter’s 0.84 percent, S&P data
show. California finances are on the mend thanks in part to
voter approval of higher taxes in November.  Different Treatment  Illinois issuers have also paid a higher  yield  on general-
obligations compared with other A- localities since February
2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There’s still a penalty for Illinois,” said Miller, a
senior portfolio manager in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin , at Wells
Capital Management, which oversees $32 billion in munis. “Just
because it’s rated the same as something else, the market’s not
necessarily going to treat it the same.”  Miller said he would buy bonds from Illinois’s planned sale
if the securities yielded 1.75 percentage points more than AAAs,
similar to levels from a deal that priced in May. Dan Solender
at Lord Abbett & Co., which manages $19.5 billion in munis, said
a spread of 1.5 percentage points “would definitely be worth
looking at.”  Those levels may not materialize, according to Vanguard’s
Alwine, who said the yield penalty for this week’s sale may be
about 1.25 percentage points. J.P. Morgan Securities LLC’s Peter DeGroot wrote in a Jan. 25 research note that 10-year Illinois
general-obligations were trading at 1.35 percentage points above
AAAs.  Pricing Issue  John Sinsheimer, Illinois’s director of  capital markets ,
declined to comment before the sale.  “The state is not going to default on its debt -- that’s
not the issue,” Miller said. “The issue for us has been
pricing” and whether yield levels are attractive enough, he
said.  In trading yesterday, munis sold off along with Treasuries
as stronger-than-forecast orders for durable goods added to
signs the U.S. economic recovery may be accelerating.  Yields rose across most maturities in the $3.7 trillion
muni market. The  interest rate  on benchmark AAA tax-exempts due
in 20 years saw one of the biggest increases, by 0.07 percentage
point to 2.47 percent, Bloomberg Valuation data show.  Following is a pending sale:  NORTH CAROLINA plans to issue $326 million of bonds as soon
as tomorrow, Bloomberg data show. The refunding debt will be
sold competitively. (Added Jan. 29)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  