-- Time Warner Cable Follows Dodgers Deal With Rate Increase
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-01-29T21:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/time-warner-cable-charging-la-customers-more-for-dodgers.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  is raising
rates on Los Angeles subscribers to help pay for rising sports
costs, including a new regional network focusing on the Dodgers.  Customers in the LA area will pay $72.50 a month, 8.2
percent more than last year, for basic cable. The average
increase for video customers is 3.5 percent,  Alex Dudley , a
spokesman for New York-based Time Warner Cable, said today in an
e-mail.  LA basic cable subscribers can’t opt out of receiving the
Major League Baseball team’s network, which will start airing
games in 2014. Time Warner Cable also debuted English and
Spanish networks last year that feature the  National Basketball
Association ’s Lakers.  The Los Angeles Dodgers ownership group created a new
company, American Media Productions LLC, to begin a network that
will be operated and distributed by Time Warner Cable, they
announced yesterday. The 25-year deal is worth about $7 billion,
according to two people familiar with the financial terms who
asked not to be named because details are private.  The rate increases went into effect on Jan. 26. Pay-TV
operators have seen programming costs rise by almost 10 percent
from a year ago as fees from sports networks and other
broadcasters jumped.  DirecTV (DTV)  and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s
FiOS have said they will charge additional monthly fees to pay
for the rising cost of regional sports networks. Time Warner
Cable doesn’t have an additional sports fee.  Laker Fees  Time Warner Cable charges competing pay-TV operators $2.25
a month per subscriber for the right to distribute the two
Lakers networks, according to research firm SNL Kagan.  Customers who also buy Internet or phone service from Time
Warner Cable won’t see a price increase on their TV package,
Dudley said. The $72.50-a-month rate doesn’t include any
discounts the company may offer.  The Los Angeles Times  reported  earlier on the rate increase
for LA customers.  Time Warner Cable, the No. 2 U.S. cable company after
Comcast Corp.,  fell  less than 1 percent to $100.35 at the close
in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  