-- IMF Briefed as Argentina Refuses Economic Assessment
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-01-29T22:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/imf-briefed-as-argentina-refuses-economic-assessment.html
The International Monetary Fund’s
board of directors was informally briefed on the economic
situation in  Argentina , which has refused to undergo an annual
assessment since 2006.  The briefing by the IMF staff took place today, the
Washington-based fund said in a statement. The statement
initially said the briefing took place yesterday, but the fund
later corrected the date. The 24 directors are scheduled to meet
Feb. 1 to decide whether to censure Argentina for not providing
accurate data on inflation and economic growth.  Argentina is the only member of the Group of 20 nations
that is refusing to allow the IMF to do its annual mandatory
review of the country’s economy, a procedure known as an Article
IV consultation. Somalia,  Venezuela ,  Ecuador  and Madagascar are
the other  countries  where there’s been no such assessment in
more than 18 months, according to the fund.  “Informal sessions to brief the board based on information
available are held approximately every 12 months for members
whose Article IV consultations are delayed by more than 18
months,” the IMF said in today’s statement.  The last article IV for Argentina was in 2006. President
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s late husband and predecessor,
 Nestor Kirchner , accused the lender of pushing  South America ’s
second-biggest economy into a financial crisis that led it to
default on $95 billion of bonds in 2001.  Private economists estimate Argentina’s inflation rate at
26 percent. Between soaring prices and the region’s worst
performing currency, bond investors demand the highest return
among major  emerging markets  to own  Argentine debt . The
country’s notes yield 1,090 basis points, or 10.90 percentage
points, more than U.S. Treasuries, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBIG index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  