-- IMF Mission to Propose Romania Accord Extension on Reform Delays
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-01-29T09:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/imf-mission-to-propose-romania-accord-extension-on-reform-delays.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
extended a review of Romania’s loan accord until the end of
June, after Prime Minister Victor Ponta asked the lender to
prolong the agreement to complete more reforms.  The IMF’s board will meet in June to decide on Romania’s
progress under the accord, which will bring the current review
to completion, Mission Chief Erik de Vrijer said in Bucharest
today. The Balkan nation must sell minority stakes in some
energy companies, such as  Transgaz SA (TGN)  and Complexul Energetic
Oltenia SA, before the Washington-based board meeting, he said.  “Because there were some misses on targets and there were
delays in structural reforms, the government has asked to extend
the accord by three months  and we have agreed to ask our board
to grant this request,” de Vrijer said.  Romania , which is counting on the 5 billion-euro ($6.7
billion) precautionary loan from the IMF and the European Union
to act as a safety net against the European sovereign-debt
crisis, still needs to sell 15 percent stakes in Transgaz and
natural-gas company Romgaz SA, a 10 percent stake in
Nuclearelectrica SA and select a manager for the sale of a 15
percent stake in Oltenia. It must also pay some overdue debt to
the private sector as part of its pledges.  The IMF cut its economic growth forecast for Romania to
almost zero in 2012 from a previous estimate of 0.9 percent and
to 1.5 percent for this year.  Deficit Overshoot  Romania’s 2012 budget deficit totaled 14.8 billion lei
($4.5 billion), or 2.5 percent of gross domestic product,
exceeding the cash target set under the accord with the IMF,
while meeting a target under European accounting standards. De
Vrijer said the mission will ask the board to grant Romania a
waiver for the budget gap overshoot, which was due to technical
payment delays related to EU funds.  The eastern European country plans to negotiate a new
precautionary accord with lender, “immediately” after
completing the current one, Ponta said on Jan 25. Romania relied
on a 20 billion-euro loan from the lender between 2009 and 2011
to help it emerge from a two-year recession and withstand
external shocks from the global financial crisis.  The country hasn’t drawn any money from the current
precautionary accord, which isn’t off track because of the
extension, Ponta said yesterday.  Romania must also sell a majority in rail freight company
CFR Marfa SA to a strategic investor before the end of June.  During the mission ending today, the IMF and the EU helped
the country outline the 2013 budget, which still needs
Parliament’s approval. It targets a budget deficit of 2.1
percent of GDP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  