-- Impsa Awaiting $125.9 Million Eletrobras Payment for Wind Farm
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-01-29T20:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/impsa-awaiting-125-9-million-eletrobras-payment-for-wind-farm.html
Industrias Metalurgicas Pescarmona
SA, the Argentinean wind-turbine maker, hasn’t been paid by
Brazil’s state-controlled energy company  Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  for power from a project that began feeding
electricity to the grid in June 2011.  The turbine supplier’s Energimp unit is owed 250 million
reais ($125.9 million) for selling electricity from its 222-
megawatt wind farm in the southern state of Santa Catarina, Jose Luis Menghini, vice president of Impsa, as the Mendoza,
Argentina-based company is known, said today in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo.  The utility known as Eletrobras delayed payments after
Brazil power regulator Agencia Nacional de Energia Eletrica
established new compensation rules in June, Menghini said. He
said the turbine company is compliant with the revised policies
and is getting impatient.  “They want everything to be perfect.” Menghini said. “I
understand that preoccupation. They have a responsibility to do
this. But we have a responsibility to our shareholders.”  The 1.3 billion-real wind project is enrolled in a
government renewable-energy support program called Proinfa that
pays developers a set rate for electricity that rises with
inflation, he said.  Eletrobras is investigating “inconsistencies” in
documents provided by Impsa, a spokesman for the utility who
didn’t want to be named because of company policy, said today in
an e-mail.  Impsa was last asked to submit documentation for its
projects Jan. 10 and did so Jan. 16, Menghini said.  “We’ve got no problem with Aneel” or the local
environmental authority, he said. “The hold up is due to
Eletrobras.”  Energimp is 55 percent owned by Impsa and 45 percent owned
by Fundo de Investimento do Fundo de Garantia do Tempo de
Servico,  Brazil ’s state-run severance and disability fund, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  