-- Indian Yields at 3-Week High After RBI Signals Rate-Cut Limit
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-01-29T04:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/indian-yields-at-3-week-high-after-rbi-signals-rate-cut-limit.html
Indian bonds fell, sending yields to
a three-week high, after the central bank signaled elevated
inflation gives limited room to cut  interest rates , even amid a
commitment to revive economic growth.  Inflation of 7.18 percent is still the fastest in major
 emerging markets  after slowing to a three-year low in December.
“The scope for supportive monetary policy action is
constrained,” the  Reserve Bank  of India said in a report
yesterday. Thirty of 35 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will reduce the repurchase rate by 25
basis points to 7.75 percent today, while four expect a 50 basis
point cut and one sees no change.  “The RBI’s policy preview is less dovish than we
expected,” Goldman Sachs economist  Tushar Poddar  wrote in a
research note today. “It increases risks of a 25 basis point
cut in the repo instead of our expectation of a front-loaded 50
basis points cut.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent bonds due June 2022 rose two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.89 percent as of
9:45 a.m. in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. That is the highest level since Jan. 9.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said last week he
wanted interest rates to moderate to spur growth in Asia’s
third-largest economy. Gross domestic product will rise as
little as 5.7 percent in the year through March, the government
said Dec. 17. That would be the slowest pace since 2003.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration has taken a
series of measures since mid-September, including allowing more
international investment in retailing and aviation. India on Jan.
17 partially freed diesel prices from state control to curb fuel
subsidies.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, rose three basis
points to 7.59 percent in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  