-- Indonesian Coal Swaps Gain a Third Day, China Contracts Advance
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2013-01-29T09:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/indonesian-coal-swaps-gain-a-third-day-china-contracts-advance.html
Swaps prices advanced a third day
for thermal coal from  Indonesia , the world’s largest exporter of
the fuel, according to Ginga Petroleum Singapore Pte.  China 
contracts rose.  The swap for Indonesian sub-bituminous coal with a
calorific value of 4,900 kilocalories a kilogram in the second
quarter increased 35 cents to $66.10 a metric ton on a net-as-
received basis yesterday, Ginga said in an e-mail today. The
contract for February added 10 cents to $64.65 a ton.  Contracts for coal with a heating value of 5,500
kilocalories a kilogram for shipment to South China in the
second quarter increased $1.15 to $87.70 a ton on a net-as-
received basis, the energy broker said. The February contract
rose 5 cents to $85.55 a ton.  Rain and destructive winds are lashing the eastern coast of
 Australia  after floods caused by ex-tropical cyclone Oswald left
four people dead in Queensland state, inundated thousands of
homes and disrupted coal output.  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the world’s
biggest shipper of thermal coal, said its mines hadn’t been
materially affected, while acknowledging rail disruptions in an
e-mailed response to questions.  Newcastle Port Corp. operations are returning to normal
after it advised five coal ships and one other vessel to move
their anchorages further out to sea as a precaution at the
weekend, spokesman Keith Powell said by telephone. The thermal-
coal price at Newcastle, the benchmark for Asian contracts,
surged in 2011 after Cyclone Yasi crimped output.  A commodity swap is a financial agreement whereby a
floating price is exchanged for a fixed rate over a specified
contract period. About 60 percent of Indonesia’s coal is
classified as sub-bituminous. Higher moisture levels and a lower
carbon content reduce the heating value compared with better-
quality stock. Sub-bit coal has fewer than 6,100 kilocalories
per kilogram, according to the Indonesian energy ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  