-- Miners Led by Teck Revive Fourth-Quarter Earnings
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-01-29T21:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/miners-led-by-teck-revive-4th-quarter-earnings-corporate-canada.html
Rising prices for raw materials
including copper and fertilizer will help companies led by  Teck
Resources Ltd. (TCK/B)  and  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  post the first earnings gain in
three quarters as the global economy picked up steam,
strategists such as Robert Gorman said.  Companies in the  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX) 
probably increased profits about 2 percent in the fourth quarter
of 2012, according to data compiled by Gorman, chief portfolio
strategist with TD Waterhouse.  Gorman estimates companies in the Canadian benchmark equity
gauge will post total  earnings  of $210 per share. This would be
the first year-over-year increase since the first quarter and
the highest fourth-quarter profit since 2010, when companies
earned $213.17, according to Gorman.  Raw-material prices have climbed through the last months of
2012 and into 2013 as economic prospects brightened in  China ,
suggesting the world’s second-largest economy is headed for a
so-called soft landing, Gorman said.  “The most interesting area is in the resource side,” he
said in a phone interview from Toronto. “Over the past quarter
we’ve seen some base metals improve modestly and it may
represent an inflection point. I suspect better sentiment with
respect to global growth has helped us there and looking ahead
will continue to as well.”  Lagging U.S.  The Bloomberg Base Metals Spot Price Commodity Index, which
captures pricing for metals including aluminum, copper and
nickel, has climbed 8 percent since falling to a fourth-quarter
low on Nov. 5. The S&P/TSX gained 4 percent in 2012,
underperforming every developed market except Spain and
Portugal. The index rose 14.65 points or 0.1 percent to
12,830.56 today.  Paul Taylor , chief investment officer with BMO Harris
Private Banking, estimates earnings growth of 3 percent to 5
percent, which he considers to be modest. Investors will be
especially interested in companies’ guidance for 2013.  “We won’t see big blowout numbers from anywhere,” Taylor
said from Toronto. His firm manages about C$18 billion ($17.89
billion) in  Canada . “There’s a sense what we saw in the third
and fourth quarters was the mid-cycle slowdown.”  The rebound in earnings for the S&P/TSX comes after two
quarters of year-over-year profit declines of 6.9 percent and
0.4 percent respectively, Gorman at TD said.  Canadian corporate earnings have lagged the U.S. Of the 155
companies in the  S&P 500  that  reported  as of yesterday, 75
percent beat analysts’ earnings estimates. The S&P 500 has
reported 12 straight quarters of increasing year-over-year
profits,  data  collected by Bloomberg show.  China Revives  China, the world’s largest consumer of copper, reported its
 economy  expanded 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter, snapping
seven quarters of slowing growth. The country selected a new
president,  Xi Jinping , in November.  Since falling to a fourth-quarter low on Nov. 7, the price
of copper in  New York  has gained 6.1 percent through yesterday’s
close. China consumed 7.9 million metric tons of refined copper
products in 2011, accounting for 40 percent of global demand,
and is expected to use 9.7 million metric tons by 2014,
according to a  report  from the U.S. International Trade
Commission.  Teck Resources, Canada’s largest diversified miner,
produces copper, zinc, molybdenum and metallurgical coal, an
ingredient in making steel. Shares of the Vancouver-based
company gained 25 percent during the fourth quarter.  ‘Classic Example’  “Teck is the classic example on the resource side” of a
company that will benefit from Chinese growth, Gorman said.  Teck is scheduled to report  earnings  on Feb. 7, with an
average estimate for adjusted earnings of 48 Canadian cents a
share, according to 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Agrium, which has the highest revenue within the Bloomberg
Industries Fertilizer Index, raised its fourth-quarter earnings
guidance on Jan. 24 to “slightly above” $2 a diluted share.
The company had previously announced earnings guidance of $1.50
to $1.90. A Bloomberg survey of 23 analysts  projects  adjusted
earnings of $1.82.  Agrium said strong agricultural-chemical sales in the North
American fall season and higher long-term crop prices boosted
its profit. Shares of the Calgary-based  company  closed at a
record high on Jan. 25 of C$115.36, a gain of 42 percent over
the past 12 months.  ‘Strong Resurgence’  “We’re looking back at a great fall for chemicals and
seeds, and looking forward to hopefully a strong resurgence in
fertilizers,” said Jason Miner, a senior chemicals analyst with
Bloomberg Industries in Skillman,  New Jersey .  The UBS Bloomberg CMCI Agriculture  Price Index , which
captures a  basket  of futures contracts for products including
wheat, corn and soybeans, rose 1.9 percent in 2012, continuing a
long-term trend of gains since 2005, Miner said.  “Inventories are historically tight, and as long as you’re
in a tight inventory environment you’ll have a lot of support
for grain prices,” Miner said.  Agrium reports on Feb. 22.  Craig Fehr , Canadian market strategist with Edward Jones &
Co. in  St. Louis , expects slow to no earnings growth for the
fourth quarter with results hampered by the energy and materials
industries.  “There was a drag on companies in the fourth quarter due
to the fiscal cliff,” he said, referring to December
Congressional budget talks that narrowly avoided more than $600
billion in automatic tax increases and spending cuts that would
have sent the  U.S. economy  into recession. “One quarter is too
short a time period to see a meaningful change. We do expect
better earnings in 2013. Global growth will stabilize a bit.”  Energy Lags  Earnings among Canadian oil and gas producers have been
hampered in 2012, due in part to the price  spread  between the
benchmark, West Texas Intermediate, and Western Canadian Select
crude. The discount for Canadian crude widened to a record
$42.50 in December as pipeline bottlenecks impeded shipments to
the highest-priced markets from Alberta to the U.S.  Profit at Calgary-based  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) ,
the third-largest producer of oil and natural gas in Canada by
market value, have missed analysts’  estimates  by more than 35
percent in two of the past three quarters. The Calgary-based
company is reporting on March 8 and is expected to earn 38
Canadian cents a share, adjusted for certain items, according to
the average in a Bloomberg survey of 15 analysts. That compares
with 88 cents in the fourth quarter of 2011.  Consumer Debt  Financial companies, dominated by Canada’s five largest
banks, may struggle to match the better-than-projected results
of the past few quarters as Canadian consumers begin to pare
back from record-high debt levels amid a slowing housing market,
Fehr said. The financial industry  accounts  for 33 percent of the
S&P/TSX.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the nation’s largest lender, bested
 expectations  in four of the past five quarters and the stock
soared 15 percent in 2012.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , the second-
largest lender, has  exceeded  analysts’ expectations for six
straight quarters and rose 9.8 percent in 2012.  “The appetite for additional mortgages will slow,” Fehr
said.  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday cut its credit ratings
for six Canadian banks, including TD, Scotiabank, Bank of
Montreal and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce due to high  home
prices  and  consumer debt .  Kien Lim, an associate equity strategist with  RBC Dominion
Securities  in Toronto, said he expects about 46 percent of
Canadian companies to beat earnings estimates, which is in line
with historic averages going back to 2005, based on RBC data.  Optimistic Mood  BMO’s Taylor expects cyclical stocks such as Westjet
Airlines Ltd. to post improving earnings in the fourth quarter.  “Westjet, with the Canadian business and vacation traveler
coming back, that’s a good example of a company benefiting from
a better mood,” he said. “Confidence was in short supply at
the consumer, corporate and investor level from 2010 to 2012. As
we turn the corner to 2013 there is certainly more optimism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  