-- IRobot, Allergan, Microsoft: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-01-29T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/irobot-allergan-microsoft-intellectual-property.html
IRobot Corp. (IRBT) , the company that makes
robotic vacuum cleaners, floor-scrubbers and gutter-cleaners,
has applied for a patent on robotic assembly.  According to application  20130015596 , published in the
database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Jan. 17, this
technology is related to the three-dimensional printing and
manufacturing process. IRobot said in the application that this
would be a fully automated process without human intervention
and labor.  The Bedford, Massachusetts-based manufacturing company said
the technology would increase the quality of a finished product
because it would be made all in one, without the need to attach
additional components. In what it calls “traditional 3-D
printing,” connectors and fasteners are often required to
attach component parts to each other, and these connection
points are often the site of product failure, IRobot said.  The machine that performs this operation would be a six-
axis industrial robot that handles product from seed component
to mature product, through the use of 3-D printing, milling and
drilling, according to the application.  IRobot filed this patent application in June 2012.
According to the application, the two assignees or owners of the
patent are IRobot and Raytheon BBN Technologies Corp. of
Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Allergan Wins Appeal Upholding Patent for Lumigan Eye Treatment  Allergan Inc. won a U.S. appeals court ruling yesterday
that prevents  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  and  Novartis
AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz unit from selling a generic version of the glaucoma
treatment Lumigan until August 2014.  A disputed patent -- 5,688,819 -- which covers Lumigan’s
active ingredient bimatoprost and its use to treat ocular
hypertension or glaucoma is valid and infringed, the U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington said in an
opinion posted on its website.  Allegan had filed the suit in federal court in Delaware in
May 2009. The appeals court upheld a September 2011 lower-court
victory for Allergan.  The appeal is Allergan v. Barr Labs, 12-01040, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The lower court case is
Allergan Inc. V. Barr Laboratories Inc., 1:09-cvc-00333-SLR-MPT,
U.S. District Court, District of Delaware.  Merial Sued Over Patent for Frontline Pet Flea, Tick Treatment  Merial Ltd., an animal-health products unit of  Sanofi (SAN) ,
France’s largest drugmaker, was sued by Horizon Valley Generics
Inc., which asked for a ruling that it doesn’t violate Merial’s
patent for  Frontline  flea and tick control products for pets.  In the complaint, filed yesterday in federal court in
Delaware, Horizon Valley claims that Merial has “consistently
and aggressively litigated or threatened to litigate” its
patent  6,096,329 in attempts to stop potential competitors from
developing or selling any products that could compete with
Frontline.  Wilmington, Delaware-based Horizon Valley said it’s already
sought approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for a
competing flea and tick product for cats and dogs, and plans to
introduce it into the market as a generic alternative for
Frontline.  The case is Horizon Valley Generics Inc. v. Merial Ltd.,
U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Mega Brands Claims Amloid’s Big Blocks Infringe Trade Dress  Mega Brands Inc., a Canadian maker of construction toys,
sued a New Jersey-based competitor for infringing its trade
dress. Trade dress is protected under U.S. trademark law.  According to the suit filed Jan. 23 in federal court in
Santa Ana, California, Amloid Corp. of Denville, New Jersey, is
accused of producing a line of construction toys that are
confusingly similar to Mega’s  Mega Blocks  toy line.  The Montreal-based toymaker says in its pleadings that
Amloid’s  Big Blocks  toy line is too similar to the MEGA products
in terms of the configuration of the blocks, the packaging and
some of the construction toys that are to be used with the
blocks.  Mega claims that the infringement is intentional, will
cause consumer confusion, and that the lookalike products will
harm its own reputation.  The company asked the court to bar further infringement,
and an order for the destruction of all infringing products,
packaging and promotional material, and for awards of money
damages, litigation costs and attorney fees. Mega is also
requesting additional damages to punish Amloid for its actions.  Amloid didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  The case is  Mega Brands Inc. (MB)  v. Amloid Corp., 8:13-cv-
00108-CJC-MLG, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Santa Ana).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Microsoft Sues Electronic-Products Recycler for Infringement  Microsoft Corp., the world’s largest software company, sued
a company that offers electronic-equipment recycling for
copyright infringement.  According to the complaint filed Jan. 25 in federal court
in Arizona,  E-Waste Harvesters Inc.  is accused of advertising
and selling computers with unauthorized copies of Microsoft
software installed. The Redmond, California-based software
company said that the sales have continued even after it warned
E-Waste Harvesters of the consequences of its actions.  In addition to copyright infringement, Microsoft also
accused Phoenix-based E-Waste Harvesters of infringing
trademarks and of using false representations of the software
company’s packaging.  The public is likely to be confused by E-Waste Harvester’s
actions, and to assume falsely that the software company has
authorized the use of its copyrighted material and trademarks,
Microsoft claims.  It asked the court to order the Arizona company to halt its
allegedly infringing activities, and to order the seizure of all
infringing products in E-Waste Harvesters’ possession. Microsoft
has requested awards of money damages, profits derived from the
infringing actions, attorney fees and litigation costs. It also
asked for a tripling of the damages and profits awards.  E-Waste Harvesters didn’t respond immediately to an
e-mailed request for comment.  The case is  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  v. E-Waste Harvesters Inc.,
2:13-cv-00169-DKD, U.S. District Court, District of Arizona
(Phoenix)  ‘Life of Pi’ Tops List of Films Most Illegally Downloaded  If the number of unauthorized downloads of a movie were an
indication of which film would win the best-picture Academy
Award, “Life of Pi,” would win,  according to a chart  posted on
the TorrentFreak anti-copyright news website.  Second place goes to “Silver Linings Playbook,” followed
in order by “Skyfall,” “Django Unchained,” and “Argo.” The
movies were downloaded through the use of the BitTorrent file-
sharing protocol.  The  Academy Awards ceremony  will be held Feb. 24 in Los
Angeles.  Colombian Constitutional Court Rejects New Copyright Law  Colombia’s copyright law was ruled unconstitutional by the
nation’s constitutional court,  according to  Columbia Reports.  The law had been passed as part of the free trade agreement
between the U.S. and Colombia that went into effect last year,
according to the Colombia Reports website.  The court agreed with Colombian Senator Jorge Robledo, who
had argued against the law, saying it unfairly limited Internet
users’ rights to have access to and share information, the
website reported.  Antigua Given WTO Approval to Suspend IP Treaty Obligations  The World Trade Organization has granted Antigua and
Barbados authorization to suspend treaty obligations it has with
the U.S. related to intellectual property rights.  According to a  statement  posted on the island nation’s
website yesterday, the remedy, “contrary to what the United
States has publicly stated, will not constitute ‘piracy’ or
theft of intellectual property rights.” The government went on
to say that it has tried for almost a decade to resolve a
dispute with the U.S. with respect to what it calls “remote
gaming.”  Actions by the U.S. to block U.S. residents access to the
online gambling websites in Antigua “has resulted in the loss
of thousands of good paying jobs and seizure by the Americans of
billions of dollars belonging to gaming operators and their
customers in financial institutions across the world,”
according to the statement.  The online gambling industry was at one point the second-
largest employer in Antigua, which was worth “over $3.4 billion
to the Antiguan economy,” the government said.  The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative responded to
the news of the WTO actions. USTR spokesman Sean Spicer said in
a  statement  that the U.S. is presently “engaged in compensation
negotiations with Antigua and six other WTO members that have
claimed to be affected.  He said that once the process of “clarifying the U.S.
schedule of commitments is completed,” the issues of the
nation’s dispute with Antigua will be moot and there will no
longer be any basis for suspending WTO commitments.  The WTO had previously found that the U.S. gambling laws
related to Internet gambling on horse racing weren’t in
compliance with treaty obligations.  The U.S. had taken exception to the $3.4 billion figure put
forth by Antigua. According to the USTR statement, that amount
is more than three times the size of Antigua’s entire economy.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 