-- Israel Sells $2 Billion of Dollar Bonds; Rates at Record Low
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-01-29T15:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/israel-sells-2-billion-of-dollar-bonds-rates-at-record-low-2-.html
Israel raised $2 billion of dollar-
denominated bonds, including its first 30-year notes in more
than a decade, as the government took advantage of its lowest-
ever international borrowing costs.  The country sold $1 billion each of 30-year bonds and 10-
year securities, the  Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed
statement today. The 10-year notes were priced to yield 3.213
percent and 30-year debt 4.588 percent, the cheapest-ever yields
on dollar bonds, according to the ministry.  Israel reduced its 10-year borrowing costs by a fifth since
it sold securities a year ago at a 4 percent coupon, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. At yesterday’s sale, the 2023
bonds were priced at 125 basis points above similar-maturity
U.S. Treasuries, the  yield  on which has tumbled 42 basis points
to 1.96 percent from a 2012 high. Israel hasn’t sold 30-year
debt in 15 years, the ministry said.  “Israel is taking advantage of the fact that U.S. Treasury
yields are low,” Eyal Klein, chief strategist at Israel
Brokerage & Investments Ltd., said by phone yesterday. “The
election results have also contributed to a more optimistic
scenario for Israel as investors are happy to see Netanyahu
leading another government.”  Last week’s elections delivered  Benjamin Netanyahu  a third
term as prime minister. Netanyahu seeks to trim the  budget
deficit  to 3 percent of economic output this year from 4.2
percent in 2012, requiring 14 billion shekels ($3.8 billion) in
spending cuts.  Foreign Investors  Foreign investors, including from the U.S., France and
Britain, subscribed for 95 percent of Israel’s bonds, which
received demand amounting to 4.5 times what was offered, the
ministry said. “This is a sign of confidence in the Israeli
economy,” Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said in the
statement.  The sale follows Dubai’s $500 million of 30-year debt
issued Jan. 22. Mexico raised an additional $1.5 billion selling
its 2044 bonds Jan. 7.  Near-zero  interest rates  in Europe and the U.S. are
boosting developing-nation assets as investors seek out higher
yields. The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt instead of Treasuries fell to 2.38 percentage points on
Jan. 3, the lowest level since April 2010, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  Two-Year Low  The  Federal Open Market Committee , which will release a
statement on monetary policy at the conclusion of a two-day
meeting Jan. 30, says it is keeping rates low to ensure a strong
recovery in the  U.S. economy .  Israel is rated A1 at Moody’s Investors Service, the fifth-
highest investment grade and equal to the Czech Republic, Oman
and Estonia.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  underwrote the deal.  The nation’s central bank left its  benchmark  interest rate
unchanged yesterday at 1.75 percent after a surprise cut last
month that brought key borrowing costs to the lowest level in
more than two years  “For the first time in a long while, investment houses
assess that the risks in the global economy have decreased,”
the  Bank of Israel  said in an e-mailed statement yesterday,
adding that inflation expectations for the year ahead indicate
that consumer prices will be below the midpoint of their target
range.  The yield on the government’s 4 percent dollar bonds due
June 2022 rose six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to
3.01 percent yesterday, and added one basis point to 3.027
percent at the close in Tel Aviv. The shekel was trading 0.2
percent lower to 3.7318 a dollar. The currency was the best-
performer among 10  emerging markets  in Europe, the  Middle East 
and Africa during the fourth quarter, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net ;
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  