-- It’s Too Soon to Celebrate a Recovery
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-01-29T23:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/it-s-too-soon-to-celebrate-a-recovery.html
As the economy begins to show signs
of strength, people naturally want to know, how long will the
damage from the financial crisis linger? A new paper from the
 Bank of England  suggests it may be much longer than we would
like.  If that’s right, then official economic projections remain
too optimistic, even though they are more subdued than they were
before the crisis.  The Bank of England  analysis , by Nicholas Oulton and Maria
Sebastia-Barriel, examines the well-known Reinhart-Rogoff
episodes of financial crisis globally (named for the economists
 Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff ). The BOE analysis finds that
crises reduce short-run productivity growth by 0.6 to 0.7
percentage point per year, on average -- a sizeable effect. Over
the past five years, U.S. annual productivity growth has
averaged only about 1.5 percent, so a drop of 0.6 to 0.7
percentage point is relatively big.  Perhaps more disturbingly, Oulton and Sebastia-Barriel find
a significant long-run effect: For each year of a financial
crisis, the level of gross domestic product per capita is
reduced in the long term by 1.5 percentage points. In other
words, a crisis lasting five years permanently lowers GDP per
capita by a whopping 7.5 percentage points.  The authors include the appropriate caveats about their
analysis, including that such estimates are based on averages
and that each episode is unique. Nonetheless, they conclude that
“banking crises as defined by Reinhart and Rogoff have on
average a substantial and statistically significant effect on
both the short-run growth rate and the long-run level of labour
productivity.”  Enormous Difference  In contrast, the  Congressional Budget Office  projects a
much more modest effect. Its latest projections (which will be
updated next week)  assume  that “potential output will be about
1.5 percent lower in 2022 than it would have been without the
recession and the ensuing economic weakness.” The difference
between the long-term effects of the crisis in these two
forecasts is enormous, amounting to perhaps $1 trillion a year.  Why would financial crises have long-lasting effects? One
reason is that workers’ skills often atrophy during the downturn
that follows such a crisis, and some people never get jobs
again. Indeed, because the share of population with a job falls
permanently, Oulton and Sebastia-Barriel find, the effect on GDP
per capita is about twice the effect on GDP per worker. (In the
U.S., look no further than the rapid increase in enrollment in
the disability-insurance program. The number of beneficiaries is
now 8.8 million compared with 6.8 million six years ago. The
extra 2 million are people who are not going back to work.)  A second reason for the lasting hangover is that after a
financial crisis capital spending (for example, on new factories
and equipment) tends to decline, and the lower level of capital
may then be perpetuated, reducing output permanently.  Finally, it’s possible that financial crises have lasting
effects on how well capital and labor can be combined to produce
income -- what is called total-factor productivity. By this
theory, innovation declines during a crisis, and since
innovation has a cumulative aspect, the impact lingers.  Even without long-lasting effects from the crisis, the
official projections may be on the rosy side. An  analysis  by
John Fernald, a senior research adviser at the  Federal Reserve
Bank of San Francisco , is largely agnostic about whether the
impact from the financial crisis will last. But Fernald also
raises another troubling point: that productivity growth had
been slowing even before the crisis hit in 2007.  Fernald estimates that, as a result of the slowdown in
productivity growth (along with an aging population), in the
long run we should expect annual growth to average only 2.1
percent. Yet government forecasts are higher. The White House is
 projecting  long-term growth of 2.5 percent per year, and the CBO
puts it at 2.4 percent.  Benign View  These differences may seem small, but don’t forget the
power of compound interest (which has large consequences for
income) or the  budget deficit ’s sensitivity to growth (which is
surprisingly acute). Over the next decade, if Fernald is right,
the deficit will be about $1 trillion larger than official
projections suggest. Keep in mind, his analysis takes a benign
view on whether the crisis itself will further diminish income
in the long run.  Fernald’s thesis, by the way, may partially solve a puzzle
-- why, over the past two years, annual economic growth  has
averaged  about 2 percent even though the  unemployment rate  has
declined by about 1.5 percentage points. The traditional
relationship between growth and unemployment suggests that at
about 2 percent growth rates, unemployment should remain little
changed. If Fernald is right, the break-even growth rate to
reduce joblessness would be lower than the traditional view
suggests. So there would still be a puzzle, but less of one.  The crucial question about longer-than-expected effects
from the financial crisis is, what should we do about them?
Passive despair, after all, isn’t an ideal strategy.  Which brings me back, once again, to the idea of a  barbell
fiscal policy . Policy makers in  Washington  should couple
substantial upfront stimulus spending with even bigger, but
delayed,  deficit reduction . Both ends of this barbell are
crucial: The stimulus can help to reduce the lasting effects of
the crisis, and, given that the official deficit projections may
be too sunny, the austerity will help prevent a future fiscal
crisis. Furthermore, the combination is more politically
feasible than either component alone.  Unfortunately, it seems likely that neither side of the
barbell will be enacted. In failing to act aggressively, we are
increasing the risks for both slower growth and future trouble.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Peter Orszag  at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  