-- J.C. Penney Gains as New Promotions Show Pricing Flexibility
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2013-01-29T21:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/j-c-penney-gains-as-added-promotions-show-pricing-flexibility.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  soared the most in
more than a year after the department-store company said it will
resume holiday-related promotions in another adjustment to Chief
Executive Officer  Ron Johnson ’s pricing strategy.  The shares rose 9.3 percent to $21.01 at the close in New
York, the biggest gain since Jan. 26, 2012. The stock declined
44 percent last year, compared with a 13 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Johnson,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s former retail chief, has eased up on
his everyday low pricing model after the company’s revenue fell
at least 20 percent for the past three quarters. J.C. Penney
will hold sales on popular items tied to “key events and
holidays” such as Valentine’s Day, Easter and Mother’s Day,
Kate Coultas, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. There
will be fewer than 100 of the events, compared with almost 600
unique promotions in 2011, she said.  Investors betting on a drop in the stock “may be worried
that some sort of return to the sale strategy may generate an
improvement in sales trends,”  Liz Dunn , a New York-based
analyst at Macquarie Group who rates the shares neutral, the
equivalent of a hold, said in a telephone interview.  Investors are placing record bets on a decline in J.C.
Penney’s stock. Almost 25 percent of the company’s shares
outstanding were sold short this week, the fourth-most in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and close to the high of 26 percent
reached in December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
Markit, a London-based research firm. Short-sellers bet that a
stock will decline in value, usually by selling shares they
borrow, then buying them back at a lower price.  Suggested Prices  J.C. Penney said during its November earnings call that it
will add suggested retail prices to merchandise so customers can
see how much they’re saving and will match discounts on national
brands such as Jockey when they are running sales.  The company has been sending e-mails to customers alerting
them to clearance merchandise and has worked to win back
shoppers through offers such as a $10 in-store coupon, 30
percent discounts off clearance items, free children’s haircuts
and free family portraits.  “We continue to believe in the importance of great
everyday value,” Coultas said in the e-mail. “It has been and
will continue to be the cornerstone of our pricing strategy.
Every time a customer walks into our store, they can take
advantage of low everyday prices.”  J.C. Penney is scheduled to report fourth-quarter earnings
on Feb. 27. Sales may decline by 24 percent to $4.13 billion,
the average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  