-- J&J’s Hip Device Not Defective, Designer Testifies
-- B y   M a u r i c e   P o s s l e y ,   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-01-30T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/j-j-failed-own-safety-test-in-hip-design-witness-says.html
An orthopedic surgeon who helped
design the all-metal hip implant that  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  recalled
in 2010 told a jury the device wasn’t defective as he testified
in the first of 10,000 cases to go to trial.  Thomas Vail told state court jurors in  Los Angeles 
yesterday that he received almost $2 million in royalty payments
for his work on the ASR XL device, which J&J’s DePuy unit first
sold in the U.S. in 2005. The company recalled 93,000 ASR hips
worldwide in 2010 after saying 12 percent failed within five
years. Analysts say the lawsuits might cost J&J billions of
dollars.  Vail was called as a witness by a lawyer for Loren Kransky,
65, who claims defective design, failure to warn and negligent
recall. Surgeons implanted a metal cup in the hip and a metal
ball atop the femur that rotated inside the cup.  Vail was asked if the implant was defective, which a
plaintiff’s lawyer defined as “unreasonably dangerous and unfit
for human use.”  “I have not used the term ‘defective’ to describe the ASR
product,” Vail testified in a videotaped deposition.  The lawyer, Denman Heard, asked if he had any concerns
about the device when DePuy announced the recall.  “At the time of the recall, I didn’t experience any safety
concerns among the patients that I had implanted,” Vail said.  The  company , the world’s largest seller of health-care
products, based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , denies Kransky’s
claims.  J&J Statement  In his opening statement, J&J’s lawyer Alexander Calfo said
the ASR was properly designed. He said Kransky’s claim of
elevated metal levels in his body can be traced to conditions
including diabetes, high blood pressure and cholesterol, strokes
and kidney cancer.  Kransky, the attorney said, is a vasculopath, which means
he has diseased blood vessels throughout his entire body.  Jurors also heard from another orthopedic surgeon, Craig
Swenson of  La Jolla ,  California , who implanted more than 5,000
hip devices over three decades. Before those surgeries, he told
patients that 90 percent of implants last 15 years and 80
percent last 20 years.  “The goal is to have one operation,” he said. “The
second operation is harder than the first operation, so you’d
like to get it right the first time.”  Less Debris  Swenson said he began using the ASR in 2006 after
concluding it would last longer and create less debris than
devices using plastic or ceramic.  The results weren’t good, he said. Of more than 200 ASR
hips he implanted from 2006 to 2010, 38 percent have failed, he
said. Kransky’s attorney John Gomez asked how that rate compared
to other devices that Swenson had used.  “It’s not even close to what we were using before,”
Swenson said. “I don’t think this is an acceptable failure
rate. It’s a higher failure rate than any product I’ve ever
used.”  He said one indicator that the device was failing was blood
tests showing increasing levels of chromium and cobalt ions. He
also said the device results in more hip dislocations and loss
of bone, muscle and tissue than other devices.  Surfboard Shaper  Swenson said that a 60-year-old surfboard shaper got one
hip replaced in 1992, and it still functions well. In 2008, he
replaced the other hip with an ASR device. After one year, the
patient developed pain, clicking and popping. Swenson replaced
it in 2011.  Swenson said a “signature injury” of the ASR is black
tissue caused by metal debris around the hip. He called it “the
black hole.”  He said he stopped using the ASR because of high failure
rates reported through national registries in the U.K. and
 Australia . The Australian failure rate reported in 2012 after
seven years was 44 percent.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  issued a Jan. 17
advisory regarding metal-on-metal hip implants, saying that the
agency “does not have enough scientific data to specify the
concentration of metal ions in a patient’s body or blood
necessary to produce adverse systemic effects.” The FDA said it
wasn’t recommending a specific metal ion level as a trigger for
revision surgery.  The case is Kransky v. DePuy, BC456086, California Superior
Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maurice Possley in Los Angeles Superior Court
at  mauricepossley@gmail.com ;
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 