-- Japan’s Government Proposes First Spending Cut in 7 Years
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2013-01-29T10:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/japan-s-government-proposes-first-spending-cut-in-seven-years.html
Japan  unveiled a government budget
for 2013 that cuts spending for the first time in seven years,
underscoring Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s efforts to establish
fiscal-discipline credentials even as he seeks to boost growth.  The Cabinet in  Tokyo  today approved a proposed spending
total of 92.6 trillion yen ($1 trillion) for the fiscal year
starting April 1. That’s down 0.3 percent from this year’s main
budget, which excludes a 13.1 trillion yen extra budget to pay
for fiscal stimulus.  Abe faces the challenge of leading the country out of its
third recession in five years while containing a  public debt 
that’s twice the size of the economy. Most of the reduction in
spending next year comes from the elimination of reserve funds
that the previous government tapped for stimulus measures.  “It’s a narrow path,” said  Kyohei Morita , chief economist
at Barclays Plc in Tokyo. “We can see Abe’s determination for
fiscal reform in the budget, but it’s too early to say whether
he can achieve it.”  Lawmakers will debate the spending plan in a session of
Parliament that opened yesterday, with Abe’s Liberal Democratic
Party back in power after last month’s lower house landslide.  Abe’s efforts to revive the economy have won an initial
vote of confidence in the market. The extra yield investors
demand to hold 10-year Japanese  government bonds  instead of
five-year notes was at 58.5 basis points today, falling from the
seven-month high of 64.3 basis points on Jan. 11. Longer debt
tends to be more sensitive to the market’s fiscal outlook.  Reserve Funds  To save money, the government will eliminate 910 billion
yen in discretionary funds in this year’s budget. It will also
cut tax subsidies to local governments by 1.2 percent and reduce
spending on education by 0.8 percent, according to the plan. The
salaries of central government officials will be cut by an
average 7.8 percent in the proposal, saving 271.3 billion yen.  Planned new bond issuance next year is 3 percent lower at
42.9 trillion yen, according to the budget plan, bringing the
share of the budget financed by borrowing to 46.3 percent from
47.6 percent last fiscal year.  The government predicts that  tax revenue  will exceed cash
raised from bond sales for the first time in four years.  Social welfare spending will rise to a record 29.1 trillion
yen, 10.4 percent higher than the current fiscal year, as
Japan’s population ages, the plan showed.  One in every four people in Japan will be older than 65 in
2014, compared with 9.6 percent in  China  and 14.2 percent in the
U.S., according to data compiled by the U.S. Census Bureau.  Public Works  Public works spending will rise 15.6 percent to 5.3
trillion yen as Abe pledges to restore aging infrastructure. The
 defense budget  will rise 0.8 percent to 4.8 trillion yen.  Debt-servicing costs -- including interest payments for
outstanding bond issuance -- will rise 1.4 percent to a record
22.2 trillion yen.  Japan’s public debt will climb to twice annual economic
output next fiscal year, according to the government’s estimate.
The  International Monetary Fund  predicts that the nation’s debt
probably rose to 237 percent of annual economic output in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  