-- Japan Defense Budget to Increase for First Time in 11 Years
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-01-30T08:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/japan-s-defense-spending-to-increase-for-first-time-in-11-years.html
Japan  is set to increase its defense
budget for the first time in 11 years and boost Coast Guard
spending as it copes with mounting incursions by Chinese ships
in waters near islands claimed by both countries.  The defense budget will rise 0.8 percent to 4.68 trillion
yen ($51.7 billion), the Defense Ministry said. The Coast Guard
budget will go up 1.9 percent to 176.5 billion yen, its first
expansion in six years. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s Cabinet
yesterday approved a 92.6 trillion yen budget for the fiscal
year starting April that must be approved by parliament.  Abe is beefing up Japan’s ability to monitor and protect
the uninhabited East  China  Sea islands called Diaoyu in China
and Senkaku in Japan. His plans are limited by a shortage of
funds as Japan struggles to service record debt, as well as a
decades-old informal military spending limit of 1 percent of
gross domestic product.  “They should spend more, but it’s significant that they’ve
managed to stop the shrinkage,” said Ikuo Kayahara, a former
general and a visiting professor at Takushoku University in
Tokyo. “The events around the Senkakus made the Japanese
realize they might not be safe.”  The Coast Guard has taken the lead in efforts to warn off
Chinese government vessels that today entered Japan-administered
waters for the 25th time since the dispute over the island chain
heated up. The budget calls for setting up a 400-strong team
with 14 patrol vessels to defend remote islands.  China this week expressed caution over Japan’s defense
budget increase.  ‘Great Attention’  “Owing to historical reasons, any move taken by Japan in
the military area will draw great attention from neighboring
countries,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said Jan. 28 at
a daily press briefing in Beijing.  Tensions between China and Japan showed signs of easing
last week after Chinese Communist Party Secretary General Xi Jinping met with the head of Abe’s junior coalition partner in
Beijing. New Komeito Party leader Natsuo Yamaguchi handed over a
personal letter from Abe and told reporters Xi said he would
consider a summit.  “I would like to think about a summit with China if the
circumstances are right,” Abe told Nihon TV yesterday in an
interview.  The dispute between Asia’s two largest economies reignited
after the Japanese government bought three of the islands from a
private owner in September. The move set off riots in China,
damaging the $340 billion bilateral trade relationship.  Territorial Waters  Chinese ships today entered Japan-controlled waters for the
first time since Jan. 21, undermining hopes of a swift
improvement in relations.  “This is extremely regrettable and we cannot accept it,”
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said. He told reporters
that Japan would make a strong diplomatic protest.  Japan’s defense spending in 2011 was the world’s sixth
largest at $59.3 billion, according to the Stockholm
International Peace Research Institute. China was second behind
the U.S. at $143 billion, spending 2 percent of GDP, compared
with Japan’s 1 percent.  Military outlays account for about 5 percent of Japan’s
budget, while almost a quarter goes to servicing the world’s
largest debt and nearly 30 percent goes to social security
spending, according to Finance Ministry data.  Defense spending will total 4.8 trillion yen according to
Finance Ministry figures that include some expenses for
relocating American troops and aid to residents of Okinawa,
where 75 percent of the U.S. bases in Japan are located.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  