-- JetBlue Quarterly Profit Falls as Sandy Grounds Flights
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-01-29T22:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/jetblue-quarterly-profit-falls-as-sandy-grounds-flights.html
JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  fell the most
in two months after fourth-quarter profit tumbled 96 percent,
more than analysts projected, as superstorm Sandy forced flight
 cancellations  and reduced travel demand.  More than half of JetBlue’s departures are from New York’s
John F. Kennedy International, and the carrier had to cancel
1,700 flights there and at other airports over five days in
October when Sandy hit the U.S. Northeast. People living in the
area were slow to resume travel in November, JetBlue has said.  “An uninspiring quarter, in our view, though not
particularly surprising given heavy New York concentration and
significant short-term demand pressures associated with
 Hurricane Sandy ,” Jamie Baker, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst
in New York, said in a report. He rates the shares overweight.  JetBlue dropped 2.7 percent to $6.07 at the close in New
York, the largest one-day decline since Nov. 14. The shares have
gained 6 percent this year, compared to a 9 percent increase for
the Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index.  Net income fell to $1 million, or break-even on a per-share
basis, from $23 million, or 8 cents, a year earlier, the New
York-based carrier said in a statement today. That compared with
the 2 cents-a-share average estimate from nine  analysts ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales rose 4.2 percent to $1.19 billion from $1.15 billion
a year earlier as passenger traffic increased 4.3 percent.  Sandy also is affecting demand for travel around the
Presidents Day holiday next month because New York-area schools
are staying in session to make up for days they were closed
after the storm. The holiday normally brings a “big peak” in
demand for JetBlue, Chief Executive Officer Dave Barger said
today in an interview.  “We remain very upbeat with what we’re seeing with
revenue, but we’re just being realistic” about the effect on
demand, he said. “There’s not going to be a holiday. Kids are
going to be kept in school.”  Sandy cut operating income by $30 million in the fourth
quarter while reducing passenger revenue by about $45 million,
JetBlue said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  