-- Jewish Dealer Heir Urges Decision on Klee, Gris Artworks
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-01-29T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/jewish-dealer-heir-urges-decision-on-klee-gris-artworks.html
The heir of a prominent Jewish art
dealer who fled  Adolf Hitler ’s Germany urged the state of North
Rhine-Westphalia to relinquish paintings by Paul Klee and Juan
Gris that he says were lost due to Nazi persecution.  Alfred Flechtheim was one of the earliest collectors of
 Pablo Picasso  in Germany and among the best-known art dealers in
 Europe  before World War II, representing Klee, George Grosz and
 Max Beckmann  as well as the French Cubists. His great-nephew
Mike Hulton, a medical doctor based in  California , first
contacted the Dusseldorf museum that houses the two works in
2008.  Five years later, Hulton says there is enough evidence that
Klee’s “Feather Plant,” a 1919 oil painting, and Gris’s
“Still Life (Violin and Inkwell)” from 1913 were part of
Flechtheim’s private collection and sold under duress. The
 Kunstsammlung Nordrhein-Westfalen  argues there’s room for doubt
and more research is needed. The two paintings are worth several
million euros each, said Markus Stoetzel, Hulton’s lawyer.  “There is no doubt that Uncle Alfred sold the painting by
Juan Gris probably for next to nothing when he was on the run”
from the Nazis, Hulton wrote in response to e-mailed questions.
“The same applies to the painting by  Paul Klee . We are asking
for late justice. My aged stepmother Penny and I are very
disappointed and somewhat puzzled -- we hope this emotionally
stressful and difficult situation will come to an end soon.”  Hate Articles  Flechtheim ran galleries in Dusseldorf and Berlin, where he
held dozens of exhibitions and founded an art magazine. As a Jew
who sold art the Nazis condemned as “degenerate,” Flechtheim
was among the first targets of persecution. He fled Germany in
1933 after a stream of hate articles in the Nazi press, escaping
first to Zurich, then Paris and then London, where he settled.  He died in London of blood poisoning in 1937 after treading
on a rusty nail. His Dusseldorf gallery was “aryanized” in
1933 and given to his former employee Alex Voemel, a Nazi. The
Berlin gallery was liquidated later that year and his private
collection sold. It included works by  Pierre-Auguste Renoir ,
 Wassily Kandinsky ,  Fernand Leger ,  Georges Braque  and  Henri Matisse . In a 1933 letter to Grosz from Paris, Flechtheim said
he and his wife were “poor as church mice and nervous.”  Stoetzel says the Gris painting was bought by a consortium
of which Flechtheim was a member in 1921, and then entered
Flechtheim’s private collection. Photos of his apartment from
1930 or 1931 show it hanging on the wall. He sent it to Zurich
for an exhibition in 1933 and the catalog listed him as the
owner, Stoetzel said.  Private Collection  The Klee painting hung in Flechtheim’s gallery in Berlin,
catalogued as an item from his private collection, Stoetzel
said. Both works were sold in  London  after his arrival there.  Anette Kruszynski, the chief curator at Kunstsammlung
Nordrhein-Westfalen, says there is not enough evidence of
Flechtheim’s ownership or of the circumstances of sale in either
case, and that the owners of archives which could help are
denying access to provenance researchers.  “There is no doubt Flechtheim was persecuted,” Kruszynski
said in an interview at her office in the Dusseldorf museum.
“If it becomes clear that Flechtheim was forced to sell his
paintings, or he didn’t get the money, or he sold them at below
value, we would have to part with them. But we can’t prove it.”  “We would be negligent to restitute them now,” she said.
“We have the feeling we haven’t got to the bottom of this and
need to research further.”  Non Cooperation  A possible source of information, Galerie Louise Leiris in
Paris, is not cooperating with requests for information,
according to Kruszynski and Stoetzel. The gallery owns the
archives of Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler, who regularly conducted
business with Flechtheim. Its owner, Quentin Laurens, could not
be reached for comment after repeated phone calls.  The case raises questions about how much research is
enough, and what action should be taken when historical sources
are inadequate, said Uwe Hartmann, the head of the  Arbeitsstelle
fuer Provenienzforschung , a Berlin-based government office which
allocates funds for provenance research in museums and gave
money to Kunstsammlung Nordrhein-Westfalen.  “Museums shouldn’t be left alone with these decisions,”
Hartmann said. “Politicians should make a decision in
situations where the evidence leaves room for doubt. It is clear
that museums can only restitute where there is certainty. It is
also clear that we can’t keep heirs waiting another generation
for archives to open.”  Yet the regional government is staying out of the
discussion. Stephanie Paeleke-Kuhlmann, a spokeswoman for the
North Rhine-Westphalia Ministry for Culture, declined to comment
on the Flechtheim case and directed inquiries to Kunstsammlung
Nordrhein-Westfalen.  For the heirs, who are seeking more than 100 paintings in
museums in the U.S.,  France ,  Germany  and other European
countries, it’s a frustrating impasse, said Stoetzel.  “It looks like delaying tactics,” he said. “We are
urging Hannelore Kraft, the prime minister of North Rhine-
Westphalia, to make a decision. After all, justice delayed is
justice denied.”  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art,  Scott 
Reyburn  on the art market and  Craig Seligman  on books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 