-- Kaye Scholer, Grant, Barnes & Thornburg: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-01-29T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/kaye-scholer-grant-barnes-thornburg-business-of-law.html
Kaye Scholer LLP is the latest law
firm to announce plans to relocate its back office operations to
a cheaper location. The firm said yesterday it will establish an
operations center in Tallahassee,  Florida , to centralize its
support functions in one location. The center will house about
100 Kaye Scholer employees who handle accounting, document
services, graphics, technology, library services, docketing,
human resources and marketing matters, the firm said.  “Clients continue to pressure law firms to better control
costs, which inevitably impacts firm revenues and
profitability,” Jeffrey Hunter, Kaye Scholer’s chief operating
officer, said in a statement. “One way to minimize that impact
is by relocating our firmwide support functions to a lower-cost
city like Tallahassee, which will reduce overall expenditures
while still maintaining the necessary level of services to
operate effectively.”  Kaye Scholer picked Tallahassee in part because of its
proximity to the state government and universities such as
 Florida State University  and Florida A&M from which finance,
technology, library science and graphic design professionals
could be attracted to the firm. Most of the affected employees
are in the  New York  office and will be offered the opportunity
to relocate, the firm said. Some employees in  Washington  and  Los
Angeles  will also be affected.  In September Bingham McCutchen LLP announced plans open a
service center in Lexington,  Kentucky , this year to consolidate
its administrative operations.  Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP established a back
office in Nashville,  Tennessee , last year.  Kaye Scholer has 450 lawyers in nine U.S. and international
offices.  Shareholder Rights Firm Starts Class-Action Practice  Grant & Eisenhofer PA opened a Chicago office to start a
consumer class-action practice, headed by Adam Levitt, formerly
of Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz LLP.  Levitt, who will oversee both the new office and the new
practice group, has led cases involving genetically modified
foods, automotive defects and deceptive marketing practices. He
got a $750 million recovery for rice producers whose crops were
contaminated with genetically modified seeds in In re
Genetically Modified Rice Litigation. He obtained a $110 million
verdict for farmers whose crops were contaminated by genetically
modified corn, the firm said.  He currently represents car buyers in a product liability
class action against Porsche involving claims arising from
allegedly defective parts in the automaker’s Cayenne model (In
re Porsche Cars North America Inc., Plastic Coolant Tubes
Products Liability Litigation). He also represents landowners
and landscapers in a class action against DuPont Co. seeking to
recover damages for tree and other foliage death and other harm
caused by DuPont’s Imprelis herbicide (In re Imprelis Herbicide,
Sales Practice and Products Liability Litigation), the firm
said.  “Consumer class actions are a natural outgrowth of our
historic practice litigating on behalf of investors,” firm
co-founders  Stuart Grant  and  Jay Eisenhofer  said in a statement.
Adam’s success in representing consumers and business owners in
high-stakes cases, such as the genetically modified corn and
rice litigation, add an important dimension to our caseload.”  Grant & Eisenhower was founded in 1997, to focus on
representation of institutional investors in securities class
actions, corporate governance cases and derivative litigation.
The Chicago office is the firm’s fourth, in addition to New
York, Washington and Wilmington,  Delaware .  McDermott Names New Head of Orange County Office  McDermott Will & Emery LLP announced that partner Daniel R. Foster is now partner-in-charge of the firm’s Orange County
office. Foster, a partner in the intellectual property
litigation practice group, will focus on continued growth for
the firm in the area.  Foster, who has been with McDermott since September 2001,
is also head of McDermott’s IP litigation practice group for
 Southern California . He litigates and tries complex IP and other
commercial cases, and advises companies on licensing issues and
pre-litigation strategy and planning, the firm said.  “We are very pleased to welcome Dan into this important
role and know he will bring both strong leadership and
tremendous enthusiasm to the job,” Peter J. Sacripanti, co-
chairman of McDermott Will & Emery LLP said in a statement.  Foster replaces IP litigator Fay Morisseau who retired from
the firm.  McDermott has more than 1,100 lawyers in offices in the
U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia .  Moves  Barnes & Thornburg Adds Insurance Recovery Group in  Minneapolis   Barnes & Thornburg LLP hired a group of insurance recovery
partners from Lindquist & Vennum LLP in Minneapolis.  The attorneys include Thomas C. Mielenhausen, Christopher H. Yetka and Christopher L. Lynch, who all join the policyholder
insurance recovery and counseling group. Mielenhausen was head
of Lindquist’s insurance recovery group.  “The addition of these attorneys underscores the firm’s
commitment to the strategic expansion of its leading practice
groups across the country,” Alan Levin, managing partner of
Barnes & Thornburg, said in a statement. “Their experience in
high-profile insurance disputes and recovery litigation will be
of great benefit to our colleagues in Minneapolis and
nationally.”  With the addition of the three new partners, Barnes &
Thornburg’s Minneapolis office, which opened in 2009, has 32
lawyers.  Mielenhausen helps policyholders resolve insurance coverage
disputes through negotiation, alternative dispute resolution,
and litigation in trial and appellate courts. Yetka focuses his
practice on commercial litigation, particularly insurance
recovery disputes. He serves as vice chairman of the ABA’s
Insurance Coverage Litigation Committee and is a program
committee member of the Minnesota Chapter of the Risk and
Insurance Management Society Inc. Lynch focuses his practice on
insurance recovery, representing business policyholders whose
claims have been denied or disputed by their insurance
companies.  Barnes & Thornburg has 600 attorneys and other legal
professionals at 12 U.S. offices.  Freshfields Corporate Partner Moves to Paul Hastings in Paris  Paul Hastings  LLP hired David Revcolevschi as a partner in
the corporate practice in Paris. Revcolevschi was formerly a
partner at Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP.  He specializes in mergers and acquisitions and securities
offerings, with an emphasis on international offerings of equity
securities. He advises companies on M&A and tender offers, and
on stock exchange and securities laws matters, and represents
issuers and underwriters in IPOs, privatizations and equity and
equity-linked offerings, the firm said.  Paul Hastings has lawyers in 19 offices in the U.S., Asia
and Europe.  Carlos Ortiz Joins Edwards Wildman as a Litigation Partner  Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP announced that Carlos Ortiz will
join the firm as a partner in the firm’s white collar and
government enforcement practice group. Ortiz was previously with
LeClairRyan, where he was head of the firm’s investigations,
compliance and white-collar criminal defense team. He will be
based in New York and Madison,  New Jersey .  Ortiz advises organizations and individuals on the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act, allegations of fraud against government
agencies and financial institutions, securities and health-care
fraud, and high-risk tax controversies, the firm said.  Prior to entering private practice in 2005, Ortiz was at
the U.S. Attorney’s Office in New Jersey where he was deputy and
acting chief of the criminal division. He supervised eight
criminal litigation units, and was chief of the Government Fraud
Unit, the firm said.  Edwards Wildman has 625 lawyers at 15 offices in the U.S,
Europe and Asia.  News  Admiral Plans Deal With U.K. Law Firm Lyons Davidson, Mail Says  Car insurer  Admiral Group Plc (ADM)  is considering a deal with
solicitors Lyons Davidson under new U.K. rules allowing non-
lawyers to own law firms, the Mail on Sunday reports, citing an
unidentified person with knowledge of talks. An arrangement
between the two, which could include a merger, is imminent,
though it’s unclear how any deal would be structured. Admiral
and Lyons Davidson declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  