-- Kenya’s Shilling Weakens for Fourth Day Amid Election Concern
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-01-29T11:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/kenya-s-shilling-weakens-for-fourth-day-amid-election-concern.html
Kenya ’s shilling depreciated for a
fourth day as concern that scheduled elections in March may
trigger violence outweighed attempts by the central bank to
support the currency.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy retreated as
much as 0.3 percent to 87.83 a dollar and traded 0.2 percent
down at 87.75 as of 1:15 p.m. in Nairobi. The shilling has slid
1.7 percent this year, compared with a 0.5 gain for  Uganda ’s
shilling and a 0.2 percent advance in  Ghana ’s cedi.  The Central Bank of Kenya sold an unspecified amount of
dollars for the sixth consecutive day amid concern the shilling
will weaken further before the March 4 vote, the first since a
disputed 2007 poll sparked two months of violence in which more
than 1,100 people died. The currency may slide to 88.56 a dollar
over the next five weeks as businesses accumulate dollars,
according to the mean estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
eight analysts and traders on Jan. 23.  “The weakening of the shilling is due to the elections
which have created political uncertainty with a slowdown on
investment inflows at a time when earnings from exports are not
strong enough to meet local dollar demand,” said Solomon Alubala, head of trading at  National Bank of Kenya Ltd . “The
central bank selling of dollars is slowing down the momentum but
the month-end demand for dollars is strong.”  An official in the bank’s foreign-exchange department, who
asked not to be identified in line with policy, confirmed the
dollar sales.  The bank offered 10 billion shillings ($114 million) of
seven-day  repurchase agreements  for sale today, the highest
amount this year, an official in the money market department,
who also asked not to be identified, said by phone. The repos
are used by the regulator to withdraw  money supply  from banks
and support the shilling.  Tanzania’s shilling increased 0.2 percent to 1,607 a
dollar, while the Ugandan shilling advanced 0.2 percent to 2,665
a dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  