-- Kingdom Sees Future in Islamic Loans as Alwaleed Builds Tower
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-01-29T08:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/kingdom-sees-future-in-islamic-loans-as-alwaleed-builds-tower.html
Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM) , controlled by
billionaire  Prince Alwaleed bin Talal , established a committee
to help the company move toward Shariah-compliant loans as
Islamic financing gains appeal among borrowers.  The committee will “prepare an integrated strategic plan
for the conversion of future loans in accordance with the
Islamic Shariah,” the Riyadh-based company said in an e-mailed
statement today. The panel will comprise Sheikh Abdullah
Sulaiman Al Manee’a, an adviser to the  Royal Court , Sheikh
Mohamed Ali Elgari, Sheikh Ali Abdulaziz AlNashwan and Abdulah
Salim AlGhamdi.  Global banks including HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard
Chartered Plc have set up Islamic banking units to take
advantage of growing demand for financial products that comply
with the religion’s ban on interest. Global Islamic financial
assets are set to double to as much as $3 trillion by 2015,
according to Standards & Poor’s estimates.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. said last week it would focus on
clients in countries including  Saudi Arabia  and Malaysia amid
plans to increase its Islamic business. Malaysia hosts the
world’s biggest market for Islamic bonds, while Saudi Arabia
boasts the world’s biggest share of Shariah-compliant assets.  Kingdom Holding, 95 percent owned by Prince Alwaleed, is
building a 1 kilometer-high (0.62 mile-high) skyscraper in the
Red Sea port city of Jeddah, seeking to surpass the Burj Khalifa
in Dubai as the world’s tallest tower. The company said in
September it completed financing for the $1.2 billion project.  The shares surged 3.6 percent, the most in a month, at
11:34 a.m. in  Riyadh .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  