-- Koreans Tapping Inheritances With Reverse Loans: Mortgage
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2013-01-30T07:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/korean-tapping-inheritances-with-reverse-loans-mortgages.html
Kim Tae Hwan, a 68-year-old South
Korean retiree, last year made a difficult decision.  The former  taxi driver , who retired in April due to illness,
had planned to leave his home, his only life savings, to his two
children, receiving a monthly living allowance from them in
return. Instead, concerned about  Korea ’s falling property prices,
he rushed to take out a reverse mortgage on the 109-square-meter
(1,173-square-foot) house on the outskirts of the South Korean
capital.  “I thought the sooner the better to get the loan to get
the most out of the house before home prices fall,” said Kim.
“This reverse mortgage just gave me and my wife what we needed
the most -- stable income and independence from my kids.”  Applications for  reverse mortgages , which are typically
taken out by elderly or retired homeowners who borrow money in
the form of monthly payments against the equity in their homes,
are surging to the highest in six years. Loans backed by state-
run financing firm Korea Housing Finance Corp. jumped 71 percent
in 2012 as retirees like Kim sought a steady income in a nation
wracked by personal debt, falling home values and a rapidly
aging population.  “As more South Koreans in their 50s are retiring without
accumulating much fortune but a single house, the reverse
mortgage is becoming the last resort for the retirees,” said
Park Won Gap, the senior real-estate market analyst at Kookmin
Bank,  South Korea ’s biggest lender by assets. “The fear of a
further slide in  home prices  is encouraging them to take that
option which has been a foreign idea to them. As not many people
expect a bull real estate market any time soon, the reverse
mortgage origination will inevitably increase.”  Elderly Homeowners  Reverse mortgages are repaid when the borrower dies or
sells the house.  The volume of loans jumped to 5,013, worth 6.9 trillion won
($6.5 billion), in 2012 from the previous year, the highest
since the KHFC introduced the product in 2007, as home prices in
 Seoul  and the surrounding metropolitan area fell by the most in
more than a decade.  JooTaekYeonKeum, which literally translates as housing
pension, was introduced in 2007 as the government sought to help
senior citizens prepare for retirement. Lenders provide the
loans and the KHFC guarantees the full amount of the debt.
Homeowners have to be at least 60 years or older and need to
have paid off their mortgages to qualify. They can keep the home
until they die as the KHFC guarantees the loan for life.  Family Meeting  Kim said he held a family meeting before applying for the
mortgage and after some discord, his children accepted the
decision. While the home Kim and his wife bought 18 years ago
and now own outright will go to his children eventually, if the
property is worth less than the loan, his children will either
give it up or keep it and repay the full amount of the loan.  Home prices in Seoul fell for the second time in three
years in 2012 as South Korea bucked a trend of soaring home
values in other parts of  Asia , such as  Hong Kong  and  Singapore ,
as  household debt  soared. The money owed reached a record 164
percent of disposable income in 2011, compared with 138 percent
in the U.S. at the start of the housing crisis, according to an
estimate by Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Seoul home prices declined 2.9 percent in 2012, the most in
14 years, and dropped 3 percent in the capital’s surrounding
areas, the most since Kookmin Bank began tracking the  data  in
1999. Almost half the nation’s 50 million people reside in Seoul
and surrounding areas.  Funding Retirement  Even as home prices drop, South Koreans are increasingly
relying on their properties to fund retirement. Houses and
residential real estate account for almost 70 percent of South
Korean households’ average assets, while the proportion stood at
81 percent for those 60 years or older, according to a survey of
20,000 households by the  Bank of Korea , Statistics Korea and the
Financial Supervisory Service, released on Dec. 21.  About 54 percent of households with breadwinners not yet
retired said that they were poorly prepared for a future without
income, according to the survey.  “South Korea doesn’t have a well-organized public pension
system in place yet, while many  baby boomers  born after 1955
will soon be retiring,” said Kang Jong Man, a researcher at the
Seoul-based  Korea Institute of Finance . “The reverse mortgages
led by the government will have to be an alternative for the
retirees who have a shortfall in living expenses.”  National Pensions  South Korea first introduced a national pension scheme in
1988, which initially covered employees between 18 years and 60
years working at companies with more than 10 staff, according to
the website of the National Pension Service. The program was
expanded in April 1999 to cover almost all South Korean workers.  The Korean public pension scheme was introduced
“relatively recently,” according to a 2011 report by the
Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development. The
earnings replacement rate -- or how much pensions will make up
for earnings after retirement -- for 40 years of contribution
was 50 percent in 2008 and will be reduced 0.5 percentage point
every year from 2009 to 2028 when it reaches 40 percent, the
report said.  The surge in reverse mortgages is in sharp contrast to the
sluggish growth in  new mortgages . Those loans rose 3.5 percent
last year, the slowest pace in five years, to 316.9 trillion won
as the government seeks to curb the increase in household debt,
seen as one of the biggest potential risks to Asia’s fourth-
biggest economy.  Since reverse mortgages were first offered in 2007, 17.2
trillion won have been extended, with 12,299 retirees applying,
according to the KHFC.  Average Rates  The average  interest rate  on the debt is 110 basis points
above the three-month certificate of deposit rate, set by KHFC.
Korea’s  91-day CD rate  has been the benchmark for banks’
variable lending. The rate was 2.84 percent yesterday, according
to Korea Financial Investment Association data. That compares
with the Bank of Korea’s benchmark  policy rate  of 2.75 percent.  While reverse mortgages in Korea haven’t been packaged into
securities, there is an active market for regular home loans
sold as residential mortgage backed securities. Last year, a
record 20.3 trillion won of RMBS was sold, more than double the
10 trillion won in 2011, as KHFC took over loans from commercial
lenders that meet its standards for RMBS issuance and issued the
securities as part of government efforts to increase longer-term,
fixed-rate mortgages. KHFC’s RMBS sales may reach 21 trillion
won this year, according to its own estimate.  Bank Stocks  Korean bank stocks are outperforming the benchmark Kospi
index this year.  KB Financial Group Inc. (105560) , owner of South Korea’s
biggest mortgage lender Kookmin Bank, gained 5.2 percent this
year compared with the Kospi’s 1.6 percent drop. Woori Finance
Holdings Co. which is operating the nation’s No. 2 lender by
assets Woori Bank, advanced 8.1 percent and Shinhan Financial
Group Co., operator of third-biggest lender  Shinhan Bank ,
climbed 7.9 percent. KB Financial fell 0.1 percent at the close
of trading in Seoul today, Woori added 0.8 percent and Shinhan
dropped 0.5 percent.  The average rate for banks’ new mortgage loans stood at
4.19 percent in November, according to the latest available data
from the Bank of Korea.  A rapidly aging population may pose a threat to South
Korea’s long-term economy as the country expects to become a
super-aged society in 2026 after passing being an aged society
in 2017, the fastest aging population among OECD member
countries, the  finance ministry  said in a Dec. 27 report. An
aged society refers to nations where people 65 years or older
make up at least 14 percent of the population and a super- or
hyper-aged society means the elderly account for at least 20
percent, according to a definition by the  United Nations .  U.S. Market  The U.S. is the biggest market in the world for reverse
mortgages, with about $38 billion outstanding of bonds backed by
the loans and guaranteed by the federal government. Home prices
that have fallen by about a third since their 2006 peak mean
homeowners have less equity, and issuance fell to 49,080 last
year through November, down from a peak of 115,176 in 2008.  U.S. Senator  Bob Corker , a Republican from  Tennessee ,
criticized the U.S. government agency responsible for the debt
in a hearing last month, saying they’re losing money on the
products, while brokers are making an “absolute fortune.  A federal appeals court this month revived a lawsuit
accusing the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development of
setting up its reverse-mortgage program in a way that makes it
more likely a surviving spouse will end up in foreclosure and
several banks have also stopped making the loans after criticism
by the National Consumer Law Center and other watchdog groups,
which allege that some unscrupulous lenders take advantage of
elderly homeowners.  Asian Contrast  The uptake in reverse mortgages in South Korea also
contrasts with other parts of Asia that have experienced surging
home values. In Hong Kong, where home prices have doubled in
four years, reverse mortgages have drawn little interest as
retirees opt to sell their homes, rent and use the remaining
cash to support themselves. Local lenders received 319
applications for the plan as of the end of 2012, according to
figures on the Hong Kong Mortgage Corp.’s website.  The KHFC expects reverse mortgage origination to reach 1
million by 2030 as more people qualify for the loans, Jang Sang
In, the general manager at the KHFC’s reverse-mortgage
department, said in a Jan. 8 phone interview.  “The good old days when you raise kids and educate them
and they’re supposed to take care of your retirement are gone,”
said Kim, the taxi driver. “They’re just too busy taking care
of themselves and I don’t know how many days I have remaining. I
feel so lucky I am qualified for the reverse mortgage. Some of
my friends, who’re already indebted with their house, don’t even
have this option.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 