-- Kurds to Truck Crude to Turkey Again in a Week, Minister Says
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-01-29T17:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/kurds-to-truck-crude-to-turkey-again-in-a-week-minister-says.html
Iraq’s Kurdish region will resume
sending crude to Turkey by truck in about a week and is in talks
with international companies to develop  oil fields , even as the
country’s central government branded such deals illegal.  The Kurdistan Regional Government will export 20,000
barrels a day of crude, and 10,000 a day of condensate, in
“about a week or so,” after halting three weeks ago for
technical reasons, Natural Resources Minister  Ashti Hawrami  said
at a conference in London today. The semi-autonomous territory
is in “advanced” talks with two or three oil explorers to work
on extracting crude, having already signed agreements with
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   Kurdistan will only resume shipments through Iraq’s main
export pipeline to Turkey, suspended in December, if the central
government pays what is outstanding on previous sales, Hawrami
said. Hussain al-Shahristani, Deputy Prime Minister for Energy
Affairs for the federal authorities in Baghdad, said that
unilateral Kurdish agreements with foreign firms violate
national law.  Possible exports of 250,000 barrels a day are “not going
anywhere because there is no revenue coming for the contractors,
and Iraq once again negated on its promises to implement the
agreement” between the two governments, Hawrami told reporters
during a briefing at  Chatham House  in London.  Genel Energy Plc (GENL)  has been trucking crude from the Kurdish
region to Turkey, which is exchanged for refined fuels. The
deliveries were halted several weeks ago for the installation of
monitoring equipment at the border, Hawrami said.  Output Capacity  Kurdistan has oil production capacity of 400,000 barrels a
day, about 250,000 a day of which is needed for domestic
consumption, Hawrami added. This includes 130,000 a day from the
Taq Taq field operated by Genel Energy Plc, and 135,000 at the
Tawke oilfield, he said.  The regional government is “satisfied” with relations
with international firms operating in its territory, such as
Exxon Mobil, Hawrami said. Iraq’s oil minister warned the U.S.
company on Jan. 27 that it must stop dealing with Kurdistan if
it wants to proceed with the contract it signed to operate the
West Qurna-1 oil field in the south of the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  