-- Nasdaq to Merge Index, Data Units in Reorganization
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-01-29T16:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/nasdaq-to-merge-index-data-units-in-reorganization.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , America’s
second-largest equity market operator, said it merged its data
and index businesses as part of a reorganization.  The Global Information Services unit, which has been in
operation since Jan. 1, will be headed by executive vice
president John Jacobs and comprise 20 percent of  Nasdaq ’s total
annual revenue, the New York-based company said in an e-mailed
statement. The merger will enable it to “leverage the recent
technology investments,” Jacobs said.  Nasdaq’s data division provides market information for 2.5
million people in 83 countries. There are more than 7,000
products based on Nasdaq indexes, with almost $1 trillion in
notional value, the operator said. The company, seeking to
expand its business beyond securities transactions, said this
month it’s combining two technology units that provide advisory
services to exchanges and research on company shareholders.  “This is part of a broader shift in how Nasdaq will report
its business segments,” Matthew Heinz, an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. who has a buy rating on Nasdaq, said in an e-
mail. “It will be a positive for the stock as investors can
more clearly see the margin profile of its various business
units.”  Nasdaq in December agreed to buy  Thomson Reuters  Corp.
units that provide investor and public relations and multimedia
services for $390 million in cash as it seeks to diversify. The
company also purchased a 25 percent stake in The Order Machine,
a Dutch alternative securities-trading system focused on stocks
and equity derivatives.  The computerized infrastructure of American  capital markets 
has come under increased scrutiny after a series of breakdowns
in the past year, including Nasdaq OMX’s mishandling of Facebook
Inc.’s initial public offering. Bats Global Markets Inc. and
Knight Capital Group Inc. also experienced mishaps.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in  New York  at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  