-- NBA Union Chief Hunter Fires Family After Nepotism Report
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-01-30T13:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/nba-union-s-hunter-fires-family-members-after-nepotism-disclosed.html
Billy Hunter  purged family members
from roles in the National Basketball Association players union
that he runs after a report that criticized nepotism at the
organization.  The moves dismissing personnel including his daughter and
daughter-in-law were disclosed in a letter from Hunter to
members of a special committee of players established prior to
the investigation by the  law firm  Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton
& Garrison. A copy of the letter, dated Jan. 23, was obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  The New York-based union paid almost $4.8 million to
Hunter’s family members and their professional firms since 2001,
according to public records as reported by Bloomberg News in
April. Hunter makes $3 million a year as union chief.  “Hopefully this decision will alleviate any concerns
raised by their employment,” Hunter wrote in the letter.
“These measures are being taken although the report noted that
both of them were highly qualified, not overpaid, and were
contributing members of the NBPA staff.”  Robyn Hunter, the director’s daughter, ceased working at
the National Basketball Players Association on Jan. 25,
according to the letter. Megan Inaba, his daughter-in-law and
director of special events and sponsorships, will leave on Feb.
17 after the NBA’s All-Star weekend.  Prim Capital  Hunter, 70, also secured a letter of resignation from Prim
Capital, which employs his son, Todd.  Hunter, through union spokesman  Dan Wasserman , declined to
comment on the letter or his family’s employment changes.  Joe Lombardo, Prim’s managing director, didn’t immediately
return a voice message left at his office seeking comment on the
company’s contract with the union.  The changes come about two weeks after the independent
investigation of the union’s business practices found that
Hunter, the organization’s leader since 1996, put personal
interests ahead of the association, failed to manage conflicts
of interest, and lacked proper approval for his five-year, $15
million contract as director.  The investigation by Paul, Weiss also concluded that Hunter
didn’t do anything illegal. It said players should consider a
change in leadership. The report also said players could decide
it was possible for Hunter to rectify the problems he created
and serve as an effective  executive director .  Hunter’s letter to the committee, comprised of  James Jones 
of the  Miami Heat , Matt Bonner of the  San Antonio Spurs , Anthony Tolliver of the Atlanta Hawks and Matt Carroll and Etan Thomas,
who aren’t currently on rosters, said the union would adopt
policies related to conflicts of interest, hiring and document
retention.  Jobs Eliminated  Hunter said in the letter he would eliminate unspecified
positions at the union and adjust the salaries of others to
bring them in line with market rates.  Arn Tellem, one of basketball’s most prominent agents, sent
a letter to his clients two days ago that said Hunter must be
fired as head of the association. He accused Hunter of
“treachery” in the letter, a copy of which was obtained by
Bloomberg News. Tellem is the first agent to call for Hunter’s
ouster.  “Mr. Hunter works for you, though he clearly doesn’t
realize it,” Tellem said in the letter.  Players’ Interests  Hunter said yesterday in a statement he has always looked
after the players’ interests, even when some agents haven’t. He
didn’t name specific agents.  “The reality is that the agents have never been satisfied
that they cannot control the union for their own agendas,”
Hunter said in the statement.  The U.S. Attorney’s Office in  Manhattan  started
investigating the union after the association’s president,  Derek Fisher , called for a review of business practices, including
nepotism.  Besides Hunter’s son, daughter and daughter-in-law, another
daughter, Alexis, is special counsel at a law firm used by the
union. Hunter’s letter didn’t refer to Alexis Hunter.  The Paul, Weiss report stated that Prim Capital didn’t
cooperate with its investigation.  According to the union’s most recent filing with the U.S.
Department of Labor, Robyn Hunter received a salary of $89,695
last year. Inaba received $167,100, while Prim, which conducted
financial education seminars for NBA players, was paid $594,900.  Steptoe & Johnson, the firm that employs Alexis Hunter, was
paid $296,246.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  