-- Nestle Nigeria Rises for Fifth Day to Record High: Lagos Mover
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2013-01-29T14:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/nestle-nigeria-rises-for-fifth-day-to-record-high-lagos-mover.html
Nestle Nigeria Plc (NESTLE) , the West African
nation’s largest food company by market value, advanced to a
record high as investors predicted expansion would support the
stock and lead to increased dividends.  The shares closed 4.5 percent higher at 790.25 naira in
Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial capital, their highest value since
January 2002, when Bloomberg began compiling the data. The stock
increased for a fifth consecutive day, the longest winning
streak since Nov. 30.  Investors “have confidence in the ability of the stock to
deliver both capital appreciation and dividend,” Raheem Mohammed, chief executive officer of Kundila Finance Ltd., said
by phone from Lagos today. The Nigerian unit of  Nestle SA (NESN) , the
world’s biggest food company, said in 2011 it could double in
size within three years by investing in major brands, which
include Nestle instant coffee and Milo chocolate-malt drink.  Retail investors buying the stock “have jumped on the
bandwagon because they believe the rally will continue so they
can exit and make profit,” David Adonri, chief executive
officer of Lambeth Trust and Investment Co., said by phone from
Lagos. “Nobody can predict when the upsurge will stop because
when it started, we thought it would stop after a 30 percent
rise, but it’s still moving upwards,” Adonri said.  Nestle Nigeria appreciated by 57 percent in 2012 and has
risen 13 percent this year.  Cadbury Nigeria Plc (CADBURY) , a manufacturer
of drinks and food products, more than doubled last year and has
risen 16 percent in 2013, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg .  Net income for the third-quarter through September climbed
63 percent to 15.4 billion naira ($100 million), Nestle Nigeria
said on Oct. 31. Revenue rose to 85 billion naira from 70.5
billion naira in the same period in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  