-- New Hampshire Tank Efforts Couldn’t Stop MTBE, Jury Told
-- B y   S a r a h   E a r l e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-01-29T19:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/new-hampshire-tank-efforts-couldn-t-stop-mtbe-jury-told.html
Efforts to improve  New Hampshire ’s
fuel storage systems wouldn’t have been enough to prevent
groundwater contamination by a gasoline additive, an expert
witness told a jury in the state’s case against ExxonMobil Corp.  Marcel Moreau, an underground storage systems expert from
 Maine , testified at the state court trial in Concord today that
small leaks and spills of gasoline from old cars and gas
stations polluted Maine’s water with the gasoline additive,
methyl tertiary butyl ether, or MTBE. The testimony of Moreau, a
witness called by the state, was to show how easily MTBE
could contaminate drinking water supplies, despite efforts by
the state, the federal government and the industry itself to
make storage tanks leakproof.  “These measures were still not adequate to contain MTBE
gasoline,” Moreau said of upgrades and improvements to
underground storage tanks. “You could contaminate a million
liters of water to a concentration of 0.4 parts per billion with
a single teaspoon of MTBE.”  New Hampshire might be seeking more than $200 million from
ExxonMobil, the last defendant on trial in the $816 million
lawsuit filed in 2003. The trial began Jan. 14. This is one of
scores of cases involving MTBE filed since 2000 against
refiners, fuel distributors and chemical makers.  ExxonMobil has argued that it was complying with federal
regulations that pre-empt state law. They said MTBE was added to
gasoline to make it burn more thoroughly and thus reduce air
pollution, as required under the 1990  Clean Air Act .  Kent Colburn, the former director of the air resources
division of New Hampshire’s  Department of Environmental
Services , testified yesterday that the state wouldn’t have
participated in a federal clean-air program called Reformulated
Gasoline, or RFG, if Exxon had warned of the risks of the
additive.  MTBE’s Risks  ExxonMobil said the state was aware of MTBE’s risks when it
opted into the RFG program in 1991 because there had been
studies of the additive for several years. New Hampshire re-
entered the clean-air program in 1997. By 1999 it was
petitioning the  Environmental Protection Agency  to get out of
it.  Robert Larkins, a former vice president of marketing for
Irving, Texas-based ExxonMobil, said in taped testimony played
in court last week that he approved the use of MTBE despite a
colleague’s recommendation in a mid-1980s memo against using it
because of its risk to groundwater. The colleague had been asked
by ExxonMobil to conduct a study of MTBE.  Moreau testified today that Maine was perplexed when MTBE
was detected in wells far from  storage tanks  with suspected
leaks. The spills were traced to places including a grassy spot
where a teenager had parked his jalopy and a gas station where a
fuel-truck driver had been overfilling tanks.  MTBE, which is highly soluble in water and thus can be
carried great distances from where it leaked, can render
drinking water “foul, putrid and unfit for human consumption,”
according to court papers.  Storage Tanks  Cross-examining Moreau today, ExxonMobil lawyer William
Stack said that New Hampshire changed regulations regarding the
removal of aging storage tanks in 1990, which contributed to the
spread of MTBE.  “If they had followed the 1985 regulations, these tanks
would have been out of the ground possibly by as early as 1990,
right?” Stack said to the witness.  “That would not have removed all of the tanks, but it
would have removed some,” Moreau replied.  New Hampshire has said that about 40,000 wells are
contaminated with MTBE, including about 5,590 at levels
determined to be unfit for drinking.  The number of contaminated wells is a factor in determining
monetary damages if ExxonMobil is found liable. The state is
also seeking damages based on market share of gasoline sales in
New Hampshire during the period covered by the lawsuit.  ExxonMobil’s share was about 30 percent, the state said.
Based on an estimated cost of $816 million to test for, monitor
and clean up the groundwater, New Hampshire might be seeking
about $245 million from the company.  Citgo Petroleum  New Hampshire Superior Court Judge Peter Fauver agreed Jan.
15 to sever the other defendant from this trial, Citgo Petroleum
Corp., while the company and the state work to complete a
settlement. Citgo is the Houston-based unit of  Petroleos de
Venezuela SA , the country’s state-owned oil company.  Citgo’s market share ranged from 3.1 percent to
8.7 percent, New Hampshire said. Based on those figures, the
state might be seeking $25 million to $71 million from Citgo. If
an accord isn’t reached by Feb. 15 and no extension is approved,
Citgo would be reinstated to the trial.  Besides ExxonMobil and Citgo, New Hampshire also sued Shell
Oil Co., Sunoco Inc.,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Irving Oil Ltd., Vitol SA
and Hess Corp. All settled before the trial began except
ExxonMobil and Citgo. Shell and Sunoco agreed to pay New
Hampshire $35 million in a settlement announced in November.  New Hampshire has received more than $100 million in
settlements from defendants so far, according to court papers.  MTBE lawsuits have also been consolidated in federal court
in  New York  for pretrial evidence-gathering and motions. In
2009, a federal jury ordered ExxonMobil to pay  New York City 
$104.7 million after finding it liable for polluting wells in
the city. ExxonMobil has appealed.  New Hampshire’s lawyers said yesterday they hoped to
conclude their case by Feb. 21, sooner than expected. ExxonMobil
will then begin presenting its case. Lawyers had said the trial
could last more than four months.  The case is New Hampshire v.  Hess Corp. (HES) , 03-C-0550, New
Hampshire Superior Court, Merrimack County (Concord).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Earle in Concord, New Hampshire,
at   sarah_earle@comcast.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  