-- New Microsoft Office Takes to the Cloud: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2013-01-29T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/new-microsoft-office-takes-to-the-cloud-rich-jaroslovsky.html
It’ll take more than an Excel
spreadsheet to help you figure out the latest version of
 Microsoft (MSFT)  Office. Maybe a degree from the  London School  of
Economics.  It’s been awhile since a new version of Office stirred a
lot of excitement. So much has already been built into the
world’s most popular productivity suite over the years that it’s
hard to get too worked up over new features. Threaded comments
in Word! Recommended PivotTables in Excel!  Still, the new Office is worth paying attention to for a
couple of reasons. It’s the first one designed for use in the
era of cloud-connected devices, touchscreens and tablets. And
Microsoft is radically changing how it’s priced and sold to
consumers.  The cloud -- in this case, Microsoft’s  Office.com  website
and SkyDrive service -- is integral to the new offering.  Facing a threat from  Google (GOOG) ’s online suite of productivity
applications, Microsoft has adopted a hybrid model. Unlike the
Google Docs approach, major Office components are still
installed locally on your computer, giving you full access and
flexibility even when you are offline.  If you’re signed into Office.com, your files, formatting
and preferred settings will be seamlessly saved to  SkyDrive ,
giving you access to your work even if you’re signing in from
another computer -- or a Windows Phone, for that matter. If
you’re not online, changes you make locally to a file will be
automatically synced the next time you connect.  Touch-Friendlier  New features are designed to make Office friendlier to
users of tablets and touchscreens. For example, a toolbar option
lets you space icons farther apart to make them easier to poke
with a finger.  One option I found particularly appealing on a touchscreen
tablet display is Word’s new Read mode that automatically
reflows text. And OneNote lets you draw or write on screen using
a finger or stylus and gives you a full-screen view in the new
Windows 8 style.  The biggest change to Office, though, is in how it’s sold.
Microsoft wants you to think of it not as a product you purchase
once every several years, but as a service you subscribe to and
pay for every year, called Office 365 Home Premium.  Blurred Line  The concept is in keeping with the times, where the line
between software and services is increasingly blurred. But it
can make the process of figuring out what’s best for you almost
insanely complicated.  OK, stay with me now.  A subscription to Office 365 will cost $100 a year. For
that, PC users will get the full complement of Office programs:
Word, PowerPoint, Excel, Outlook, OneNote, Access and Publisher.  You may install them on up to five computers, so one
subscription can take care of an entire family. You also get
access to Web-based versions of the programs, in case you’re
working on someone else’s computer, and 27 gigabytes of SkyDrive
storage, rather than the seven gigabytes Microsoft gives away
for free.  Plus 60 minutes of worldwide phone time per month via
 Skype . Plus, if there’s an  Apple (AAPL)  user in the family, he or she
can get the Mac version of Office on the same subscription.  Whew! Sounds like quite a deal, and it may be -- if you
need all that. But many may find it overkill. How often does
Junior really need to create a relational database in Access for
his homework?  One-Time Purchase  For most consumers, the alternative will be a one-time-only
payment of $140 for a version called Office Home & Student,
which includes Word, Excel, PowerPoint and OneNote. For the
previous version of Office, that one-time purchase bought you
the right to install it on three computers. But for the 2013
edition, Microsoft has reduced it to one.  So to figure out the best deal for yourself, you have to
take into account how many computers you have, how many of the
Office component programs you’re likely to use, whether and how
much you want to use the cloud for storage, and how often you
call overseas -- just for starters.  And, of course, how you feel about committing yourself to
pay $100 a year, every year, or else see your Office files
degraded to a read-only form you can continue to access, but not
edit.  I foresee consumers the world over logging on to
Microsoft’s online store, or standing slack-jawed in their
neighborhood  Staples (SPLS)  or  Best Buy (BBY) , trying to sort everything out.  Or maybe building a database in Access to keep track of all
the variables.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on  books  and Katya
Kazakina on  art .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net . Follow on Twitter @RichJaro.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 