-- Newcastle Gets First Premier League Away Win; QPR Ties Man. City
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-30T00:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/newcastle-beats-aston-villa-for-first-premier-league-away-win.html
Newcastle defeated Aston Villa 2-1
for its first away victory of the season in English soccer’s
Premier League, while last-place Queens Park Rangers drew 0-0
with defending champion  Manchester City .  Papiss Cisse and Yohan Cabaye scored for Newcastle, the
last team in England’s top four divisions to record a win away
from home. Wigan rallied for a 2-2 draw at Stoke and Sunderland
and Swansea finished goalless in last night’s other matches.  Newcastle’s victory at Villa Park ended a run of 17 winless
games away from home in all competitions this season. It moved
the Magpies up one place to 15th, four points ahead of the three
teams in the relegation places at the bottom of the standings.  “We defended well and worked really hard for the result,”
striker Yoan Gouffran, who joined from Bordeaux on Jan. 23, said
on Newcastle’s website after his debut.  Cisse opened the scoring in the 19th minute by taking a
pass from Moussa Sissoko and drilling a low shot past Brad Guzan
into the corner of the net. Villa’s  Charles N’Zogbia  hit the
post three minutes later and the visitor then doubled its lead
in the 31st minute as Cabaye sent a volley from outside the area
past a diving Guzan.  “We were superb in the first half and we played as well as
we’ve played all year,” Magpies coach  Alan Pardew  told the  BBC .
“In the second half they got an early goal, which gave them a
lift, and then we had to show another side to our game. It’s a
battle, it’s a fight and everybody played their part.”  Early Goal  Christian Benteke pulled Villa within 2-1 with a penalty
kick early in the second half after Mathiew Debuchy brought down
 Gabriel Agbonlahor . Jonas Gutierrez later cleared a header off
the line to preserve the Newcastle win.  “They were relentless in the second half but it was just
too little too late,” Villa manager  Paul Lambert  told the
British Broadcasting Corp. “We had loads of chances to pull it
back.”  Villa extended its winless run in the league to seven
matches and dropped into the relegation zone below Wigan on goal
difference.  QPR rebounded from being knocked out of the F.A. Cup on the
weekend by League One’s MK Dons by holding Manchester City to
the draw at Loftus Road in west London.  QPR is now unbeaten in four league games, following a win
at Chelsea and draws with Tottenham and West Ham, to move within
three points of Reading in 19th place.  “It was another big point for us,” QPR manager  Harry Redknapp  said in comments on the team’s website. “ We defended
fantastically all over the park, everybody worked hard.”  City Dominates  Manchester City owned a 9-3 edge in shots and saw QPR
goalkeeper Julio Cesar deny  Gareth Barry  and  David Silva , while
 Pablo Zabaleta  hit the crossbar with a header.  “When you play like this away and you don’t win, it’s
incredible -- we lost two points here,” City manager  Roberto Mancini  said in comments on his team’s website. “We did
everything to win this game but we didn’t score.”  City sits in second place with 52 points, four fewer than
 Manchester United , which plays Southampton tonight.  Wigan’s point from the comeback at Stoke moved it above
Villa and out of relegation up to 17th place.  Ryan Shawcross put Stoke in front in the 23rd minute and
 Peter Crouch  made it 2-0 three minutes into the second half.
James McArthur scored for Wigan two minutes later and Franco Di
Santo tied the game in the 61st minute. Stoke is winless in its
last five league games.  Sunderland failed to record a shot on target at home
against Swansea and was saved from defeat by Titus Bramble in
injury time.  The Swans managed only four shots on goal themselves and
their best chance was wasted by Nathan Dyer, who shot wide from
close range with about 10 minutes remaining. Bramble then kept
the game scoreless when he blocked a shot by  Danny Graham , who’s
been linked with a move to Sunderland, from close range in the
third of four added minutes.  In tonight’s other games, Arsenal hosts Liverpool, West
Brom is at Everton, Tottenham visits Norwich, Fulham plays West
Ham and Chelsea is at Reading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 