-- News Corp. Tabloid Bribery Suspect Cleared by U.K. Prosecutors
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-01-29T16:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/news-corp-tabloid-bribery-suspect-cleared-by-u-k-prosecutors.html
A public official suspected of
taking bribes from journalists at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Sun tabloid in
Britain won’t be charged in the widening investigation, U.K.
prosecutors said.  The person, who wasn’t named, was arrested last year as
part of Operation Elveden, the probe into corrupt payments by
reporters and editors at News Corp. titles, the Crown
Prosecution Service said today in a statement.  The person “has been informed today that no further action
is being taken in relation to these allegations of misconduct in
public office,” Alison Levitt, the agency’s principal legal
adviser,  said in the statement .  The probe, which has triggered more than 50 arrests, has
focused on the Sun, Britain’s best-selling daily tabloid, and
the News of the World, which Chairman Rupert Murdoch closed last
year to help quell public anger over a related phone-hacking
scandal. New York-based News Corp. has spent at least $315
million in civil settlements with victims, legal fees and other
costs related to the wrongdoing.  The unidentified public official was being considered for
charges in relation to three other people who were charged on
Nov. 20, including Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive
officer of News Corp.’s U.K. unit, and Bettina Jordan Barber, a
defense ministry employee. Andy Coulson, who edited the News of
the World, was charged in the bribery probe the same day.  Brooks is accused of paying 100,000 pounds ($157,500) to a
defense ministry employee, while Coulson allegedly swapped cash
for a palace phone directory for the royal family and their
staff, the CPS said in November. The CPS didn’t provide details
of what the unidentified official was suspected of.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  