-- NFL, Union Increase Lobbying to More Than $1 Million, Study Says
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-01-29T17:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/nfl-union-increase-lobbying-to-more-than-1-million-study-says.html
The  National Football League  and its
players union increased spending on congressional lobbying to
more than $1 million in the past decade because of higher
interest in player safety, drug testing and labor issues,
according to a  study  released today by  Citizens for
Responsibility and Ethics in Washington .  “With increasing scrutiny and coverage of the lasting,
debilitating effects football careers can have on players’
health, the NFL has gone into damage-control mode -- pumping up
its lobbying spending and donations to influential members of
Congress,” CREW Executive Director  Melanie Sloan  said in a
 release .  In 2012, the NFL spent $1.14 million on federal lobbying, a
more than five-fold increase from what it spent a decade ago,
according to the organization, which says it is focused on
accountability by public officials. The union tripled spending
to $120,000 in 2012, from $40,000 in 2002.  Messages left with the NFL and union seeking comment on the
report weren’t immediately returned.  The NFL, with annual revenue of $9.3 billion, started a
political action committee in 2008 called Gridiron-PAC. It
didn’t start making donations until the 2010 election cycle,
when the  U.S. Congress  began holding hearings on concussions and
started taking an interest in discord between the league and its
players’ union.  During the 2012 election cycle, the NFL contributed
$838,000 to federal candidates, PACs and party committees, an
increase of 26 percent from the 2010 cycle, the study showed.  Leadership Donations  Recipients of donations from the NFL’s PAC were
congressional leaders and key members on committees with
jurisdiction over NFL issues, the report said.  “Given the NFL’s estimated $9 billion in annual revenue,
both sides can clearly afford to maintain their influence in
 Washington ,” Sloan said. “While the league is dealing with
numerous challenges off the gridiron -- including a renewed
interest in drug testing -- it is worth keeping an eye on how
the billionaire owners and millionaire players use their deep
pockets to influence Congress.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  