-- Nissan Downplays Infiniti’s Japan Ties as It Seeks China Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-29T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/nissan-downplays-infiniti-s-japan-ties-as-it-seeks-china-sales.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s head of Infiniti
distanced the luxury brand’s ties to its Japanese parent as the
unit seeks to gain market share in  China , where a territorial
dispute triggered a wave of anti- Japan  protests last year.  “Infiniti is an Asian brand and doesn’t belong to any
nationality,” Johan de Nysschen, president for the marque, told
reporters in Beijing yesterday in response to a question about
the impact of anti-Japanese sentiment in China. Infiniti is
“quite separate and distinct from the parent company. We are an
Asian premium brand,” he said.  The luxury is confident of increasing sales this year by at
least 10 percent and plans to add 20 dealerships in 2013 to the
60 in operation as of the end of last year, he said.  The comments reflect Japanese automakers’ lingering
sensitivity over consumer sentiment in China, four months after
demonstrations broke out over a territorial dispute involving a
group of uninhabited islands in the  East China Sea . Infiniti
delayed introducing some models and cut back on marketing and
promotion in the country after tensions escalated, he said.  The automaker also decided to “ride the storm” and
refrained from following German luxury auto brands in cutting
prices, which hurt sales, he said.  Inventory Levels  Infiniti had the highest inventory levels among major auto
brands in China as of last month, with stockpiles at showrooms
reaching 4.42 months worth of sales last month, according to
China Automobile Dealers Association.  The brand hasn’t previously released sales figures for
China, according to Allen Lyu, its country head.  “We can’t be a global player unless we become a strong
player in China,” said de Nysschen, a former Audi executive
hired by Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  to revamp Nissan’s
upscale brand. “China is our No. 1 strategic priority. We’re
approaching this market with long-term perspective.”  Nissan moved Infiniti’s global headquarters to  Hong Kong 
last May and plans to produce vehicles in China in 2014. The
marque in December said it would revamp model names this year --
Q for cars, QX for light trucks -- as part of a push to expand
in the U.S. and China.  Infiniti is incorporated as a separate legal entity with
its own corporate culture and brand philosophy, though it’s a
wholly owned unit of Nissan, said de Nysschen.  No decision has been made about selling Infiniti vehicles
in Japan, and the automaker is considering  Mexico  as a possible
site for its next manufacturing plant, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  