-- No Obstacle to Kuroda at Japan Central Bank Seen by ADBI’s Kawai
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-01-29T00:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/no-obstacle-to-kuroda-at-japan-central-bank-seen-by-adbi-s-kawai.html
Asian Development Bank President
Haruhiko Kuroda can become  Bank of Japan (8301)  governor without his
nation losing its grip on the Manila-based organization,
according to the head of the ADB’s think tank.  “ Japan  and the U.S. are still the largest shareholders and
the U.S. has no intention to assume the presidency of the ADB,”
Masahiro Kawai, dean of the Tokyo-based Asian Development Bank
Institute, said in an interview in the city yesterday. He said
that China lacks sufficient support to grab the role and Japan
can retain its hold.  Kuroda is the leading candidate to replace BOJ Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa when he exits in April, according to Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at  JPMorgan Securities  in Tokyo. The
possible effect on Japan’s sway at the ADB was raised by
lawmaker Yoshimi Watanabe, the head of the minority Your Party
in parliament, who indicated in a Jan. 16 interview that Kuroda
should complete a five-year term through 2016 to prevent  China 
taking the role.  The ADB was founded in 1966 and aids development across the
Asia Pacific region, including a loan for Myanmar announced this
week.  Kuroda fits the profile stipulated by Finance Minister Taro Aso of having experience in managing a large organization and an
international background, according to Kanno. Kawai said Kuroda
has an “extremely good ability to communicate with an
international audience” and would be an “excellent” pick for
the role.  Kuroda said this month that the BOJ should conduct
unlimited easing until it achieves its 2 percent inflation
target, a view in line with that of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.
Abe has a chance to reshape the BOJ when his government
nominates successors to Shirakawa and his two deputies.  The central bank on Jan. 22 committed to the inflation goal
and Federal Reserve-style open-ended asset purchases, while
disappointing investors by delaying the program until next year.
The government should present its choices for the three BOJ
officials to parliament by the end of February, ruling Liberal
Democratic Party upper house parliamentary affairs chief Masashi
Waki said Jan. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in  Tokyo  at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  