-- Nudists Lose Bid to Block San Francisco Ban
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-01-30T00:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/nudists-lose-bid-to-block-san-francisco-s-ban-on-going-naked-1-.html
San Francisco , where it’s legal to
be nude at some street fairs, parades and footraces, won
dismissal of a lawsuit challenging a new ordinance otherwise
banning people from going naked around town.  U.S. District Judge Edward Chen tossed the lawsuit today,
rejecting nudists’ claims that the law violates their free-
speech rights and saying the ordinance isn’t overly broad. The
nudists can re-file the case after the law takes effect Feb. 1
to claim that, as applied to them, it violates the First
Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, he said.  “In spite of what plaintiffs argue, nudity in and of
itself is not inherently expressive,” Chen said in his ruling.
Unlike flag burning or wearing a black armband to protest war,
“public nudity in and of itself is not commonly associated with
expression of a particular message,” he said.  Four activists sued to block the city law, which prohibits
nudity in public streets, plazas and public transportation. The
law was introduced by San Francisco Supervisor Scott Wiener, an
attorney who lives in and represents the city’s Castro
neighborhood, where nude men have gathered in a plaza at a busy
Market Street intersection.  Some Exceptions  The ordinance, enacted in November by a 6-5 vote of
supervisors, doesn’t apply to the Gay Pride Parade, the Folsom
Street Fair, an annual outdoor leather and fetish party, and the
101-year-old Bay-To-Breakers 12-kilometer (7.5-mile) foot race,
events for which the city grants permits. It also doesn’t apply
to children under 5 years of age.  The plaintiffs said in court filings that they will suffer
“severe and irreparable chilling of their First Amendment right
to engage in expressive political speech through their nudity.”
Making it a crime to be naked in public infringes on the right
to express opposition to the nudity ban, they argued.  They also argued that the ordinance discriminates against
people who are nude in public places who aren’t taking part in
an exempted event.  “The plaintiffs took an unlikely position in their case
that if they couldn’t be naked everywhere, no one could be naked
anywhere,” San Francisco City Attorney Dennis Herrera said in
an e-mail. “We believed their legal challenge to be baseless,
and we’re grateful that the court agreed.”  ‘Open Invitation’  Christina DiEdoardo, an attorney representing the
plaintiffs, said her clients were reviewing the ruling and
considering their next move, including whether to file a new
lawsuit if someone is arrested for nudity after the ban takes
effect.  “The judge has issued a fairly open invitation to re-file
an amended complaint,” DiEdoardo said by phone. A new complaint
could be filed saying, “We were arrested and we are saying we
were engaged in speech against the ordinance,” she said.  The case is Hightower v. San Francisco, 12-5841, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  