-- To Fix the U.S. Economy, Fix Immigration
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2013-01-29T23:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/to-fix-the-u-s-economy-fix-immigration.html
Washington tends to have a narrow
view of what counts as “economic policy.” Anything we do to the
 tax code  is in. So is any stimulus we pass, or any  deficit
reduction  we try. Most of this mistakes the  federal budget  for
the economy.  The truth is, the most important piece of economic policy
we pass -- or don’t pass -- in 2013 may be something we don’t
think of as economic policy at all: immigration reform.  Congress certainly doesn’t consider it economic policy, at
least not officially. Immigration laws go through the House and
Senate judiciary committees. But consider a few  facts  about
immigrants in the American economy: About a tenth of the  U.S.
population  is foreign-born. More than a quarter of U.S.
technology and engineering businesses started from 1995 to 2005
had a foreign-born owner. In Silicon Valley, half of all tech
startups had a foreign-born founder.  Immigrants begin businesses and file patents at a much
higher rate than their native-born counterparts, and while there
are disputes about the effect immigrants have on the wages of
low-income Americans, there’s little dispute about their effect
on wages overall: They lift them.  The economic case for immigration is best made by way of
analogy. Everyone agrees that aging economies with low birth
rates are in trouble; this, for example, is a thoroughly
conventional view of  Japan . It’s even conventional wisdom about
the U.S. The retirement of the  baby boomers  is correctly
understood as an economic challenge. The ratio of working
Americans to retirees will fall from 5-to-1 today to 3-to-1 in
2050. Fewer workers and more retirees is tough on any economy.  Importing Workers  There’s nothing controversial about that analysis. But if
that’s not controversial, then immigration shouldn’t be, either.
Immigration is essentially the importation of new workers. It’s
akin to raising the birth rate, only easier, because most of the
newcomers are old enough to work. And because living in the U.S.
is considered such a blessing that even very skilled, very
industrious workers are willing to leave their home countries
and come to ours, the U.S. has an unusual amount to gain from
immigration. When it comes to the global draft for talent, we
almost always get the first-round picks -- at least, if we want
them, and if we make it relatively easy for them to come here.  From the vantage of naked self-interest, the wonder isn’t
that we might fix our broken immigration system in 2013. It’s
that we might not.  Few economic problems wouldn’t be improved by more
immigration. If you’re worried about  deficits , more young,
healthy workers paying into  Social Security  and Medicare are an
obvious boon. If you’re concerned about the slowdown in new
company formation and its attendant effects on economic growth,
more immigrant entrepreneurs should cheer you. If you’re worried
about the dearth of science and engineering majors in our
universities, an influx of foreign-born students is the most
obvious solution you’ll find.  Politicians of both parties recognize this. “Our goal is to
advance policies that make a difference in peoples’ lives, and
that means we want to advance pro-growth reforms that are good
for the economy,” Republican Representative  Paul Ryan  said at a
recent Wall Street Journal breakfast. The first pro-growth
reform he named? Immigration.  Many immigration opponents object to “amnesty” -- allowing
people who broke the law to reap the benefits of legal status.
That’s a moral question, and while I prefer not to stand on
principle when we have 11 million people already living in the
shadows in the U.S., it’s beyond the scope of this column. The
main economic concern about allowing more immigration or
legalizing the status of those who are already here is that
immigrants will undermine the wages of the least-skilled
Americans. In reality, it’s not clear that will happen.  Complementary Skills  In addition to growing the size of the national pie,
unskilled immigrants tend to have what economists call
complementary skills to U.S. workers. If one worker speaks
English and another doesn’t, for example, they generally don’t
pursue the same job.  In that way, it’s useful again to compare immigration with
native birth rates. Increasing the number of native-born workers
leads to more direct competition, because two native-born
workers are probably more similar than an immigrant and a native
worker. Yet most everyone cheers if they hear that the U.S.
birth rate has ticked up.  Some workers are hurt by immigration, but they are
typically already struggling. The best way to help them is with
more training, better health care, a more generous earned income
tax credit and so on. Those benefits are easier to provide in a
growing economy with more young workers than in a sluggish one
with chronic budget deficits. Immigration isn’t what really ails
them, and it isn’t what stands in the way of aiding them.  Will immigrants use those same social services, as some
immigration opponents contend, adding to the cost of the
nation’s welfare state? Yes, but not as often as they’ll pay
into it. In 2007, the  Congressional Budget Office   analyzed  the
issue while assessing President  George W. Bush ’s proposed
immigration reforms. It found that legalizing undocumented
immigrants would increase federal revenue by $48 billion while
costing only $23 billion in increased public services -- and
that’s before accounting for the broader economic benefits of
immigration.  There are few free lunches in public policy. But taking
advantage of our unique position as a country where the world’s
best, brightest and hardest-working desperately want to live is
surely one. In the end, economies aren’t mainly about budgets
and tax codes, though Congress occasionally pretends otherwise.
They’re about workers and business owners. Immigration reform is
a way to get more of both.  (Ezra Klein is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this article:
 Ezra Klein  in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 