-- Tocom Needs Pact With Overseas Bourse to Survive, Ministry Says
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2013-01-29T15:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/tocom-needs-pact-with-overseas-bourse-to-survive-ministry-says.html
Tokyo Commodity Exchange Inc.  needs
overseas help to survive as the transfer of farm futures from
 Tokyo  Grain Exchange Inc. won’t boost trading volume enough to
make the bourse profitable, its government supervisor said.  Japan’s biggest raw-material exchange, known as Tocom, will
take over trading next month of corn, soybeans, raw sugar and
azuki beans from the grain exchange, which will be dissolved
because of losses and low trading volume. Atsushi Toyonaga,
director general for commerce, distribution and industrial
safety policy at the trade ministry, said Tocom must produce a
plan to arrest its decline.  Tocom, once the world’s second-largest commodities bourse
after the  New York Mercantile Exchange , has been surpassed by
 China ’s Shanghai and Dalian exchanges and hasn’t made a profit
since the year ended March 2009 after a government crackdown to
protect individual investors from losses. As of Feb. 12, it will
account for more than 99 percent of raw-material exchange trade
in Japan, an economy that had seven commodity bourses as
recently as 2005.  “We don’t want to see commodity exchanges disappear from
our country,” Toyonaga said in an interview in Tokyo on Jan.
28. “It is necessary for Tocom to raise participation of
overseas investors through an alliance with foreign bourses.”  The exchange could approach bourses in  Chicago ,  Singapore 
and Dubai, Toyonaga said. Tocom President Tadashi Ezaki said he
would like to discuss a product-listing and trading-system
alliance with Chicago Mercantile Exchange when he made an annual
visit there in March last year.  Global Takeovers  More than $32 billion of exchange takeovers failed globally
since October 2010 amid opposition from competition authorities.
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. is vying to be an exception after
agreeing last month to acquire NYSE Euronext, moving to take
control of the world’s biggest equities market.  Taiki Obuchi, a spokesman for Tocom, said the exchange
acknowledged views being expressed by different parties on its
future and would examine them comprehensively.  A merger of Tocom with  Japan  Exchange Group Inc., created
through the integration of Osaka Securities Exchange Group Inc.
and Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. this month, is another way
forward, Jitsuo Tatara, chairman of Yutaka Shoji Co., a Tokyo-
based commodity broker and Tocom shareholder, said in an
interview yesterday.  Regulation was meant to protect individual investors after
complaints from consumer protection groups about aggressive
sales activities by commodity brokers, according to Tatara. He
said the unintended consequence was reduced volume, cutting
profitability.  Precious Metals  With the exception of precious metals, Japan Exchange is
reluctant to take over commodities from Tocom, said Tatara. Miwa
Aonuma, a spokeswoman for Japan Exchange, declined to comment on
how the bourse viewed any kind of alliance or merger with Tocom.  Tocom now trades gold, silver, platinum, palladium, rubber,
gasoline, kerosene, gas oil and crude oil.  Volumes  slumped to
25.5 million contracts last year from the peak in 2003 of 87.3
million.  The bourse accounted for 93 percent of the total trading
volume of the three Japanese raw-material bourses in 2012. It
will control 99 percent this year, with  Kansai Commodities
Exchange  in  Osaka , which mainly trades rice, handling the
remainder.  Tokyo Grain Exchange had an operating loss of 773.7 million
yen for the 12 months ended March 31, 2011, as trading volume
plunged 25 percent on reduced participation by local investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  