-- Oil Spill Cleanup Backs Up 800 Barges Along Mississippi
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-01-29T19:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/oil-spill-cleanup-backs-up-800-barges-along-mississippi.html
Almost 800 barges are backed up in
the southern portion of the  Mississippi River  while an  oil spill 
is cleaned up, the U.S. Coast Guard said.  Traffic has been halted at Vicksburg, Mississippi, since
Jan. 27 when a towboat with two barges ran into a railroad
bridge, spilling oil from a tank containing 80,000 gallons of
light crude. The oil remaining in the tank is being transferred
to another vessel, said Lieutenant Ryan Gomez, a Coast Guard
spokesman in Memphis,  Tennessee . No timeline has been set to
open the river, he said today in an interview.  “It happens from time to time -- the Mississippi River
will have vessels that will run aground, have collisions,”
Gomez said. “As soon as that restricted area can be safely
entered, we can resume traffic.”  Traffic along the nation’s busiest waterway has already
been slowed by low water resulting from the worst drought since
the 1930s. The  U.S. Army Corps of Engineers  has taken steps to
keep the river open, including demolishing riverbed rock
structures and dredging upstream near Thebes,  Illinois .  Contractors will begin removing rock later today in the
river near Grand Tower, Illinois, about 31 miles (50 kilometers)
north of Thebes, the Corps said in an e-mailed statement. The
channel will be closed from midnight to noon for about 10 days
while work is in progress, it said.  About $2.8 billion in goods including grain, fertilizer,
coal and crude oil travel along the Mississippi in a typical
January, according to the American Waterways Operators, an
Arlington, Virginia-based industry group.  Of the idled barges, 298 were heading north, guided by 20
towboats, Gomez said. Southbound delays involved 484 barges
along with 32 towboats. River traffic jams and reduced barge
tonnage have created uncertainty for shippers as far south as
 Louisiana . Companies including AEP River Operations LLC of  St.
Louis  and American Commercial Lines Inc. of Jeffersonville,
 Indiana , have idled boats because of the conditions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  