-- Oil Rises to Four-Month High as Home Prices Advance
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-01-29T22:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/oil-rises-to-four-month-high-as-home-prices-advance.html
Oil in New York rose to a four-month
high after home prices in 20 U.S. cities climbed by the most in
more than six years, signaling that the country’s economic
rebound is accelerating.  Futures advanced 1.2 percent after the S&P/Case-Shiller
 index  of property values increased 5.5 percent in November from
the same month in 2011, the biggest year-over-year gain since
August 2006. Prices also increased as Egypt’s defense chief
warned that political unrest could bring about the “collapse”
of the state.  “We’re pricing in a lot of economic optimism,” said  Mike Wittner , head of oil-market research for the Americas at Societe
Generale SA in New York. “The underlying macroeconomic picture
looks solid and that’s good for demand.”  Crude oil for March delivery rose $1.13 to $97.57 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement
since Sept. 14. Trading at 4:38 p.m. was 28 percent above the
100-day average for the time of day.  Prices were little changed after the  American Petroleum
Institute  reported oil inventories increased 4.16 million
barrels last week to 368.2 million. Oil was up 96 cents, or 1
percent, at $97.40 at 4:31 p.m. in electronic trading. The
contract traded at $97.45 before the report was released.  Brent oil for March settlement increased 88 cents, or 0.8
percent, to end the session at $114.36 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Trading was 8.5 percent above
the 100-day average.  The European benchmark oil grade was at a premium of $16.79
to West Texas Intermediate oil traded in New York, down from
$17.04 yesterday.  Home Prices  A 5.6 percent gain in home prices was projected, according
to the  median  of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The index
is based on a three-month average, which means the November data
were influenced by transactions in October and September.  The U.S. property market is extending its recovery from the
worst crash since the 1930s. The market is rebounding faster
than anyone thought possible, Blackstone Group LP’s global head
of real estate  Jonathan Gray  said this month, as the  Federal
Reserve  buys mortgage bonds to keep rates near record lows and
investors sop up a diminishing supply of properties for sale.  “Today’s housing news was good, and every day people seem
to be getting more optimistic about the economy,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in
Winchester, Massachusetts.  Egyptian Protests  Protesters in the  Suez Canal  province of Port Said vowed a
second night of defiance to a curfew. Violence increased amid a
refusal by President Mohamed Mursi’s secular opponents to join
in talks. The unrest has gained momentum since Jan. 25, the
second anniversary of the start of the uprising that ousted
 Hosni Mubarak , leaving at least 50 people dead in the past week.  The conflict between the political forces “may lead to the
collapse of the state,” Defense Minister Abdelfatah Al-Seesi
was quoted as saying in a statement posted on the armed forces’
Facebook page.  Total oil flows through the Suez Canal reached 2.17 million
barrels a day in 2011, according to the U.S.  Energy Information
Administration , the statistical arm of the Energy Department.  “Geopolitical worries are behind some of today’s rise in
prices,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a
New York-based energy hedge fund. “If the Egyptian government
were to fall, there would be threat to transit and an increase
to generalized angst in the region.”  Global Optimism  Oil also gained on reports showing global economic
optimism. German  consumer confidence  will rise next month, the
Nuremberg-based market research company  Gfk SE (GFK)  said. South
Korean manufacturers’ confidence increased this month, the  Bank
of Korea  said.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  advanced 0.5 percent.  “The oil market has been taking direction from equities,”
said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc. in
Villanova,  Pennsylvania .  Federal Reserve policy makers start a two-day meeting today
to discuss continuing asset purchases to boost growth. The bank
is buying as much as $85 billion of securities each month, using
the full force of its balance sheet to stoke the economy.  Prices eased briefly after a report showed that confidence
among U.S. consumers declined in January, reaching the lowest
level in more than a year.  “The disappointing consumer confidence report may give the
Fed some cover to continue with the easing that’s lifting all
markets,” Kilduff said.  Supply Forecasts  A report from the EIA tomorrow will probably show that U.S.
crude inventories climbed  2.5 million barrels  last week,
according to the median of nine estimates from analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Refineries probably operated at  83.25 percent  of capacity
last week, the lowest rate since March, the survey showed. Units
are often idled for maintenance in the second half of January as
attention shifts to gasoline and away from heating oil.  “There’s no fundamental factor that justifies this move
higher but you don’t want to stand in the way of a market move
like this,” Schork said. “Inventories are rising and should
rise further in the weeks ahead as refineries ramp up their
turnarounds.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 598,794
contracts as of 4:32 p.m. It totaled 393,687 contracts
yesterday, 20 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.53 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  