-- Olin Winchester Bullet Sales Surged Days Before Election
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-01-29T22:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/olin-winchester-bullet-sales-surged-days-before-election.html
Olin Corp. (OLN) , the biggest U.S. retail
supplier of small-caliber ammunition, said a surge in sales for
its Winchester bullets and shells that began days before
November’s U.S. election will continue to bolster earnings
through the third quarter.  Pretax earnings at the Winchester unit jumped to $16.5
million during the fourth quarter from $500,000 a year earlier,
Clayton, Missouri-based Olin said today in a statement. The
segment’s retail revenue growth outpaced military and law-
enforcement sales, Olin Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Joseph D. Rupp said today on a conference call with analysts.  “Consumer purchases of ammunition began to trend upward on
the Saturday before election day,” he said. “The trend has
continued with sales currently only being limited by product
availability.”  President  Barack Obama ’s election and fears of new weapons
restrictions after a series of mass shootings have fueled record
demand for guns and ammunition. Democratic governors and
lawmakers in at least 10 states are seeking new firearms
controls in the aftermath of the Dec. 14 killing of 20 children
and six adults at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown,
 Connecticut .  “The current surge is stronger and has expanded across the
product line more quickly than the late 2008-early 2009 surge,’
Rupp said. ‘‘We would expect high levels of demand to continue
at least through the third quarter.’’  Chemical Business  Olin, which gets most of its revenue from chemicals such as
caustic soda and bleach, fell 5.8 percent to $22.55 at the close
in  New York , the biggest decline since July. Olin’s projections
for its chlor-alkali unit were a disappointment, Edward Yang, an
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., said in note.  The Winchester unit’s commercial business, which supplies
retailers with bullets and shotgun shells, had an ammunition
backlog valued at $280 million in January, compared with $29
million at the end of 2011, Rupp said.  New York this month became the first U.S. state to require
real-time background checks for ammunition as part of a gun-
control law that also bans Internet sales of ammunition.
California lawmakers are proposing a tax on bullets and
licensing of ammunition dealers.  Such legislation may ultimately reduce Winchester
ammunition revenue by ‘‘a couple percent,” Rupp said.  No Divestment  Olin doesn’t plan to divest Winchester because it’s “very
profitable” and has “a long runway ahead of it,” Rupp said in
response to a question on the call.  “Would we reconsider selling it at an appropriate time? We
may, but right now, that’s not on the table,” he said.  Cerberus Capital Management LP announced last month it will
divest Freedom Group Inc., the largest U.S. gunmaker, after one
of its Bushmaster semi-automatic rifles was used in the December
shooting at Newtown.  Olin sold its Winchester firearms unit in 1981 to the U.S.
Repeating Arms Co., which makes Winchester-brand rifles and
shotguns under license from Olin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  