-- Kazakhstan Airplane Crash Kills All 21 in Bombardier Jet
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2013-01-29T15:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/more-kazakh-plane-crash-kills-20-near-almaty-interfax.html
A  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  CRJ-200 regional
jet carrying  16 passengers  and five crew members crashed near
the Kazakh commercial hub of Almaty, killing everybody on board.  The AO Airline SCAT plane was en route from Kokshetau in
the north of the country when it crashed 5 kilometers (3 miles)
from Almaty’s airport at about 1 p.m. local time as it
approached the city for landing in foggy conditions, the Astana-
based Prosecutor General’s Office said in a statement e-mailed
today. A criminal probe was opened into the incident, according
to the statement.  There were no survivors from the flight, the airline said
in a statement. No one was immediately available to comment
further at Shymkent-based SCAT.  Search and rescue teams were on site, which was sealed off
with a triple cordon of security, Interfax reported. A group of
businessmen was aboard the jet, which broke into pieces after
crashing, according to the news service.  The dead included Galymzhan Dyusenov, co-owner of the
Aidabulskiy distillery, his wife and two-year-old son, Interfax
said, citing an Akmola regional office of the Interior Ministry.  The airplane’s black box was recovered at the crash site,
the Kazakh president’s press office  said  on its website. The
airplane, manufactured in Canada in 2000, underwent its last
technical maintenance in June 2011, according to the statement.  Bombardier is in contact with local authorities and will
support and assist with the investigation, said Marc Duchesne, a
spokesman for the Montreal-based company.  “We are deeply saddened by this tragic event and extend
our condolences to the families,” he said.  SCAT, founded in 1997, operates domestic and international
flights, according to its  website . The company’s  fleet  also
includes  Boeing Co. (BA)  757-200 and 737-500 jets and Russian-made
Yak-42 and An-24 aircraft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  