-- Morgan Stanley Cross-Asset Strategist Peters to Depart
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-01-30T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/morgan-stanley-cross-asset-strategist-peters-to-depart.html
Gregory Peters,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s
chief cross-asset strategist who warned in 2007 that mortgage
losses risked causing a financial crisis, is leaving the bank.  His responsibilities will be taken on by the firm’s
committee of global strategists and economists, according to an
internal memo obtained by  Bloomberg News . Lauren Bellmare, a
spokeswoman for the New York-based bank, confirmed the contents
of the memo. Peters probably will seek a job on the buy side, he
said in an interview.  He previously was the head of fixed-income research and led
U.S. credit strategy. Before joining Morgan Stanley in 2000, he
worked as a strategist at  Salomon Smith Barney  and as a bank
regulator at the U.S. Office of Thrift Supervision.  Peters gave views on asset classes from equities to
commodities and currencies. He said in a note last month that
his group expected lower returns in 2013, and favored emerging-
market and European equities. The group was bearish on U.S.
Treasuries and the Japanese yen.  “We appreciate Greg’s hard work and determination in
helping shape the global macro research product over the past 12
years,” Juan-Luis Perez, who leads research at the bank, wrote
in the memo. “His thought leadership and market insights will
be missed.”  The bank is eliminating 1,700 jobs this month as Chief
Executive Officer  James Gorman , 54, pursues $1.6 billion of
annual savings during the next two years. Morgan Stanley also is
deferring all bonuses for employees who have both total pay of
more than $350,000 and incentive compensation of at least
$50,000, a person briefed on the matter said earlier this month.  ‘Grinding Halt’  Peters warned in November 2007 that there was a greater
than 50 percent chance that mortgage losses would cause a
systemic shock that would bring the financial system to a
“grinding halt.” He said in July that investors should buy
corporate bonds, which returned 5.2 percent over the last six
months of 2012, according to Bank of America Corp. indexes.  Other calls didn’t pan out. In June 2011, Peters said that
inflation would rise over the next year. After climbing in
August and September of that year, the U.S. inflation rate, as
measured by changes in the  consumer price index , fell for the
next nine months.  Separately, Peter Bacon, Morgan Stanley’s head of  capital
markets  in  Europe , and Gene Martin, co-head of the leveraged and
acquisition finance group, also are leaving the bank, according
to people briefed on the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  