-- Morgan Stanley Aims to Regain M&A Lead After Rosneft Raid
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-01-29T12:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/morgan-stanley-strives-to-regain-m-a-crown-after-rosneft-raid.html
Morgan Stanley, (M)  once OAO Rosneft’s
favorite investment bank, is seeking to regain its mergers and
acquisitions lead in Moscow after losing its two best dealmakers
to  Russia ’s largest oil company.  The New York-based bank, Russia’s top M&A adviser in 2010
and 2011, tumbled to seventh in 2012 after Rosneft hired  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  Russia Chairman Rair Simonyan and President Elena Titova
to run its financial unit, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Morgan Stanley lost ground to  Bank of America Corp.  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , which are advising Rosneft on the two halves of
its record $55 billion acquisition of TNK-BP from BP Plc and a
group of billionaires. Morgan Stanley is advising London-based
BP on its deal.  “Russia is a priority area for us,” Gergely Voros, Morgan
Stanley’s co-head for Russia, said in an interview in Moscow on
Jan. 24. “We have, by and large, avoided the cuts that you have
seen elsewhere in the industry here, and we would selectively
hire where there is a business need.”  Russian companies did 373 mergers and acquisitions valued
at $109 billion last year, the most since 2007’s record $128
billion and 60 percent more than 2011’s $68 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Deutsche, VTB  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  advised on 15 transactions valued at $70.1
billion, making the Frankfurt-based company the largest
dealmaker in the country last year, a position it last held in
2006. Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit was second with six
transactions valued at $66.3 billion, followed by VTB Capital, a
unit of Russia’s second-largest lender, with 20 deals at $65.5
billion.  Voros, 41, a Harvard-educated Hungarian citizen, declined
to comment on why Morgan Stanley isn’t advising Rosneft on the
TNK-BP deal.  Morgan Stanley was one of the first U.S. financial firms to
enter Russia after the collapse of the Soviet Union, opening an
office in Moscow in 1994. It has benefited from more than a
decade of close relations with state-run Rosneft, which is
headed by Igor Sechin, a longtime ally of President Vladimir Putin and a former deputy prime minister.  The bank advised Rosneft on its $10.4 billion initial
public offering in 2006, the biggest in the world that year and
the largest by a Russian company. It also advised on Rosneft’s
debut $3 billion euro bond in December.  No ‘Shock’  Rosneft has poached senior Morgan Stanley bankers in the
past. Last June, Dmitry Avdeev left as co-head of investment
banking to become Rosneft’s vice president for finance, a role
previously held by Morgan Stanley alumni Peter O’Brien and Pavel Fedorov, who is now a deputy energy minister.  Simonyan, 65, who joined Morgan Stanley in 1998 after
serving as first vice president of Rosneft in 1996 and 1997, has
been a director at state-run companies including pipeline
monopoly OAO Transneft and OAO Zarubezhneft. Titova  joined 
Morgan Stanley in 2006 from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , where she
ran its Moscow office.  “It wasn’t a shock,” said Voros. “Rair’s departure was a
natural transition from more than a decade of investment banking
with us. The reality is that there is a very strong bench of
bankers in our business.”  Rosneft Bank may in the future compete for investment
banking mandates, Simonyan told reporters in Moscow in November.
Its priority is to hedge its parent’s oil-trading risk, he said.
The pair were joined by 10 support staff from Morgan Stanley’s
Moscow office and Walid Chammah, the former chairman of Morgan
Stanley’s international business.  Sberbank, MegaFon  Morgan Stanley named Voros and Mikhail Soloviev co-heads of
its Russian business in August, with responsibility for
investment banking and debt sales and trading, respectively. It
hired Oleg Vyugin, a former head of the country’s markets
watchdog, as a senior adviser this month.  The bank was No. 2 in organizing Russian equity sales last
year, behind  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , thanks to its work on the
two biggest deals, by OAO Sberbank and OAO MegaFon, Bloomberg
data show. As well as Rosneft, Morgan Stanley advised on bonds
issued by state development bank VEB, coal producer OAO
Raspadskaya and billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov’s  AFK Sistema
holding company.   The lender, which has been focusing on the Ukraine debt
market, has had a lower market share in Russia euro bonds. It
was the 15th biggest arranger of Russian euro bonds last year
after not making the rankings in 2011, the data show.  “We’ve invested in Russian corporate coverage and in the
past year or so we brought many deals in Russia to the market,”
said Voros.  As well as Rosneft, Morgan Stanley last year advised on
bonds issued by state development bank VEB, Credit Europe Bank,
coalmaker OAO Raspadskaya and billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov’s
holding company  AFK Sistema. (SSA)   Voros said he is confident of being appointed to advise on
the privatization of OAO Sovcomflot, operator of the world’s
largest tanker fleet, later this year. Morgan Stanley is one of
23 banks hired by Russia’s government to help it sell assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net  