-- Horse DNA Found in Spain Burgers Amid Standards Concern
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-01-29T19:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/horse-dna-found-in-spanish-burgers-amid-food-standards-concern.html
Horse DNA has been found in two beef
burger products sold in Spain, according to a  report  by the
Spanish consumer organization OCU, adding to concern over food
standards after similar discoveries in the U.K. and Ireland.  The products were sold by closely held supermarket chains
Eroski and AhorraMas SA, the group said today, adding that the
meat was “generally” of low quality.  OCU’s study follows tests by the Food Safety Authority of
Ireland that found beef products that contained horse DNA.  Tesco
Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest grocer, was among supermarkets that
withdrew some beef products earlier this month. The Irish agency
said the beef didn’t pose any public health concerns.  Only five out of the 20 products analyzed in OCU’s study
offered meat with an acceptable level of quality, the Spanish
consumer body said. Eroski and AhorraMas’ own brand Alipende
sold products that contained horse DNA without indicating it on
their labels, the organization said.  “Results clearly show that consumers are being deceived
because burgers sold have labels that don’t indicate the real
ingredients,” OCU said in the report. “It is not a problem of
food security, but it is a deceit to the consumer, who brings
home a different product than the one he thinks he is buying.”  Some burgers sold by other retailers are too expensive and
have very poor quality with high levels of salt, fat and
additives, according to the report.  Eroski’s burgers “don’t pose any health risks,” the
Basque Country, Spain-based company said in an e-mailed
statement today. The potential existence of horse DNA in the
meat could be derived from being in contact with horse during
the manufacturing process, according to the statement.  AhorraMas, based in  Madrid , said in a separate e-mailed
statement it withdrew all Alipende burgers from its supermarkets
after the OCU report was published. The chain doesn’t take part
in the elaboration process of the burgers, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  