-- Mortgage Pipeline, Basel Timing, Money Funds: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-01-29T13:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/mortgage-pipeline-basel-timing-money-funds-compliance.html
Reopening the U.S. mortgage
securitization pipeline is a vital step toward a housing market
recovery that will boost the wider economy, Comptroller of the
Currency  Thomas Curry  said yesterday in a Las Vegas speech.  Curry made the remarks at an  American Securitization Forum 
conference, where he pointed out growth in auto-loan
securitizations as a “bright spot” that should boost lenders’
confidence in well-designed securitizations. He said that
underwriting standards for mortgage loans must “find a new
equilibrium of risk and reward for a sustainable mortgage
market.”  The so-called Qualified Residential Mortgage rule is being
written by the OCC, which regulates banks, and other agencies
including the  Federal Reserve  and Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. Curry said he recognizes the significance of the rule. He
said its objectives, which requires lenders to retain a stake in
risky mortgages they securitize, include “encouraging the
availability of consumer credit on reasonable terms, facilitated
by the secondary mortgage market, on the one hand, and sound
credit market practices and investor protection on the other.”  A related measure was released Jan. 10 by the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau. That so-called Qualified Mortgage
rule offers legal safe harbor for lenders who follow guidelines
for “safe mortgages,” which it defines as those made to
borrowers whose debt payments are no more than 43 percent of
their income, among other things. Some lawmakers and housing
industry groups have called for the risk-retention regulation to
conform to that rule.  Compliance Policy  EU Said to Weigh Bank Debt Rule Delay in Blow to Basel Timetable  The European Union is weighing a one-year delay to the
deadline for  lenders  to disclose whether they meet a debt ratio,
in the latest blow to the global timetable for applying Basel
bank rules, according to three people familiar with the
discussions.  EU nations may seek to push the start date for mandatory
disclosure of this so-called  leverage ratio  from Jan. 1, 2015,
to Jan. 1, 2016, said the people, who couldn’t be named because
the talks are private. The revised date was discussed by
diplomats at a meeting yesterday, they said.  The ratio is part of the package of international bank
rules known as Basel III, which has become beset by delays as
regulators across the world ponder how best to implement the
measures, which more than triple the core capital lenders must
hold and set standards for how lenders should manage risks.  The EU, like the U.S., missed the January deadline to start
phasing in parts of Basel III. The Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision, the international group that drew up the standards,
agreed earlier this month to delay and water down another key
part of the package designed to ensure banks have enough easy-
to-sell assets in a crisis.  The possible delay to the leverage ratio was triggered by
the EU’s failure to meet the January deadline. Officials will
hold further talks on the timing for the leverage ratio and
other parts of the Basel III rules in the coming weeks, two of
the people said.  Governments and European Parliament lawmakers have sparred
over swathes of the bloc’s draft Basel implementing law
including banker bonus curbs, rules for systemically important
banks and the leverage limit.  For more, click here, and click here.  Money Funds Retreat as Fidelity to Vanguard Push Limited Rules  Three of the five largest U.S. money-market fund managers,
signaling they can’t stop a second attempt by regulators to
overhaul rules for the $2.7 trillion industry, are fighting
instead to limit the scope of any changes.  Fidelity Investments, Vanguard Group Inc. and  Charles
Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  are urging regulators to exempt retail-oriented
funds and focus on those that cater to institutional clients and
buy corporate debt, a category that absorbed the bulk of an
investor run in 2008. Known as prime institutional funds, they
hold $987 billion, or 37 percent of U.S. money-market mutual-
fund assets, according to research firm iMoneyNet.  Five months after beating back a regulatory plan by then-
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, fund companies acknowledge they face longer odds in
blocking a similar proposal expected to reach SEC commissioners
before the end of March. The agency is being pressed to
reconsider changes by the  Financial Stability Oversight Council ,
or FSOC, a risk-monitoring panel that includes the heads of the
Federal Reserve and Treasury Department.  Fidelity, the largest U.S. money fund manager, wrote in a
Jan. 24 letter to the SEC that if it determines reform is
necessary, it should be “narrowly tailored” to minimize
disruption to short-term markets and lessen adverse impacts on
long-term markets. Vanguard made a similar appeal in a letter to
the FSOC on Jan. 15. No. 5 Schwab went further in a Jan. 17
letter to the FSOC, saying the idea of forcing prime
institutional funds to abandon their fixed $1 share price in
favor of a floating value “merits consideration.”  Money managers have asserted that allowing a floating net
asset value would destroy the appeal of money funds, which are
often used as substitute for holding cash.  Vincent Loporchio , a Fidelity spokesman,  John Woerth , a
Vanguard spokesman, and Alison Wertheim for Schwab declined to
comment beyond the letters.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Deutsche Bank Said to Be Among Banks in Bafin Euribor Probe  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is among several banks facing probes by
financial regulator Bafin over the possible rigging of Euribor
interest rates, two people familiar with the matter said.  WestLB, now called Portigon AG, is also being investigated
over the Euribor rates, said the people, who declined to be
identified because they aren’t authorized to speak about the
matter. Sueddeutsche Zeitung reported yesterday Bafin is looking
into four German lenders over Euribor, including Portigon and
Deutsche Bank. Both lenders are also being reviewed for their
participation in Libor rate setting.  Regulators from Canada to Switzerland are investigating
whether more than a dozen banks. The benchmarks are meant to
represent the rate at which banks can borrow from other lenders
in a specific currency over various periods.  Bafin spokesman  Ben Fischer  declined to identify any of the
banks involved or to say how many are being investigated.
Spokesmen for Deutsche Bank and Portigon declined to comment.  The regulator has various forms of reacting to allegations
of wrongdoing, said Fischer. The process can be escalated from
asking for a dialogue over the issue, ordering to hand in
information to opening a special probe, he said.  Grassley Presses CFTC Inspector General on Auditing Standards  Senator  Charles Grassley , a Republican from Iowa, has asked
the inspector general’s office of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission to ensure that progress has been made in improving
its auditing systems after failing a peer review in 2011.  Grassley made the request in a Jan. 25 letter to the
Commission’s Office of Inspector General.  While the Office of Inspector General previously said it
has “fully implemented” 35 recommendations made in 2011,
Grassley says he remains concerned. He asked in the letter for
detailed documentation of all steps taken to ensure problems
were resolved within six months. He also wants details of how
the office plans to maintain standards.  A government-required review completed in March 2011 said
the Commission’s internal watchdog had “significant
deficiencies” in its auditing systems and received a failing
grade.  RBS Drops on Report U.S. Authorities Seeking Libor Guilty Plea  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Britain’s biggest
publicly owned lender, fell the most in four months after the
Wall Street Journal reported U.S. authorities are seeking a
guilty plea to criminal charges as part of any settlement of
allegations of interest-rate rigging.  Executives are resisting such a plea on concern it could
increase RBS’s vulnerability to litigation and lead clients to
curtail business, the newspaper reported, citing unidentified
people with knowledge of the talks. The bank expects to pay
about 500 million pounds ($786 million) in fines to U.K. and
U.S. regulators in a settlement as soon as next week, two people
with knowledge of the matter said earlier this month.  “Discussions with various authorities in relation to
Libor-setting are ongoing,” Michael Strachan, a spokesman for
RBS, said. “We continue to cooperate fully with their
investigations.” He declined to comment further on the talks
with the  Justice Department .  The fine would be the second-largest, in comparison to that
of UBS AG, levied by regulators in their investigation into
allegations traders at the world’s biggest lenders manipulated
submissions used to set the London interbank offered rate and
similar benchmarks.  For more, click here.  Ernst & Young Cleared by Regulator’s Lehman Client-Funds Probe  Ernst & Young LLP won’t face action in the U.K. over its
audits of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s London unit, the
U.K.’s accounting regulator said after an investigation lasting
more than two years.  The probe focused on whether Ernst & Young had ensured
whether the bank complied with client-asset-separation rules,
the  Financial Reporting Council  said in an e-mailed statement.  The regulator also cleared Ernst & Young in a separate
probe last year over the way it dealt with the bank’s off-
balance-sheet transactions during 2007. The probe focused on its
accounting for Lehman’s so-called Repo 105 and Repo 108
transactions.  Wal-Mart Accused of Using Mexican Governor to Negotiate Bribes  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s (WMT)  Mexican unit used a current state
governor there to facilitate $156,000 in bribes meant to help
open stores, an ex-lawyer for the retailer told company
officials in 2005, according to documents released by members of
the U.S. Congress.  The payments were negotiated by Graco Ramirez Garrido
Abreu, who at the time served as a federal lawmaker for the
state of Morelos, a Wal-Mart summary of the accusations stated.
It was released Jan. 10 by Democratic Representatives  Henry
Waxman  of California and  Elijah Cummings  of Maryland, whose
staff is investigating the lawyer’s allegations.  The accusations by attorney Sergio Cicero Zapata, a 28-year
veteran of the company, who alleged Ramirez was “the main
contact person” to speed needed permissions from the Urban
Development Ministry, came in a summary of an Oct. 13, 2005
meeting with the retailer’s officials.  Governor Ramirez denied
Cicero’s claims. Cicero couldn’t be immediately reached for
comment.  Following a New York Times report based partly on Cicero’s
accounts last year, Wal-Mart officials said they had started a
corruption investigation of the Mexican unit and expanded the
probe to the company’s operations in India, China and Brazil.  Wal-Mart spokesman Randy Hargrove said this information is
not new and “has been part of the company’s ongoing
investigation of potential violations of the U.S. Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act for more than a year and has been the
subject of two New York Times articles.”  For more, click here.  Courts  Ex-Jefferies Trader Litvak Arrested for Securities Fraud  A former Jefferies & Co. managing director was arrested and
accused of defrauding customers of more than $2 million on
trades of residential mortgage-backed securities, prosecutors
said.  Jesse C. Litvak, 38, of New York, was arrested yesterday at
his home and charged with 16 counts including securities fraud,
fraud connected with the Troubled Asset Relief Program and
making false statements to the federal government, Connecticut
U.S. Attorney David Fein said in a statement.  Alleged victims include “numerous” investment funds,
among them six established by the U.S. Treasury Department in
2009 as part of its response to the financial crisis, according
to the statement. Litvak also defrauded private investment
funds, according to the statement.  Litvak is charged with 11 counts of securities fraud and
may face as long as 20 years in prison on each count if
convicted. He is also charged with one count of TARP fraud.  The SEC yesterday filed a  lawsuit  against Litvak in federal
court in Connecticut, accusing him of defrauding investors in
more than 25 trades from 2009 to 2011.  Patrick J. Smith, an attorney with DLA Piper in New York
who is representing Litvak, said in a statement that Litvak
didn’t “cheat anyone out of a dime,” Smith said. He added that
Litvak looks forward to trial so he can clear his name.  Richard Khaleel, a spokesman for New York-based Jefferies,
declined to comment on the case.  The civil case is SEC v. Litvak, 13-132, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut (New Haven).  Caisse D’Epargne Ex-Trader Convicted Over $424 Million Loss  Former Caisse d’Epargne trader Bruno Picano-Nacci was found
guilty by a Paris court of charges his unauthorized trading cost
the bank 315 million euros ($424 million) in 2008.  The court said he had to repay the money and issued a
suspended jail sentence at a hearing yesterday. The 37-year-old
former trader breached the trust of the bank, continuing to
trade on risky positions after he was ordered otherwise.  The bank announced a 751 million-euro loss less than a year
after  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  said in January 2008 that unraveling
positions taken by  Jerome Kerviel  cost it 4.9 billion euros.
Caisse d’Epargne calculated the damages figure as what was lost
through unauthorized trading rather than poor portfolio
management.  Picano-Nacci, who joined the bank in 2003, denied he
exceeded his authority, arguing he made risk-management mistakes
and didn’t hide those errors from superiors or act outside his
mandate. Caisse d’Epargne is now part of Groupe BPCE, France’s
second-largest bank by branches.  Picano-Nacci’s lawyer, Martin Reynaud, said he didn’t know
if the former trader would appeal the two-year suspended
sentence and damages award. Under French law, Picano-Nacci faced
as much as three years in jail and a 375,000-euro fine.  Caisse d’Epargne lawyer Jean Reinhart said repayment would
be “difficult” and the question of any compensation for the
bank must be approached with “intelligence and tact.”  Interviews  Levitt Says White Is ‘Right Choice’ for SEC, Must ’Brand’ Agency  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, said Mary Jo White must “brand” the SEC
as the “investors’ commission” if she is to be successful as
the new chairman. Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s  Tom Keene  and
 Michael McKee  on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 