-- Thousands Evacuated as Flooding Hits Eastern Australia
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   E d w a r d   J o h n s o n
-- 2013-01-30T07:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/thousands-evacuated-as-flooding-hits-eastern-australia.html
Floodwaters in eastern  Australia 
retreated and cleanup crews moved in after  ex-tropical cyclone 
Oswald forced thousands of people to flee their homes and caused
millions of dollars of damage.  River levels dropped in the Queensland state capital,
Brisbane, where more than 3,000 properties were inundated, and
the city’s water treatment plant reopened, according to local
authorities. In Bundaberg, the military helped the relief effort
after more than 7,500 people were evacuated, including patients
from the local hospital.  The  Insurance Council of Australia  declared a catastrophe
for parts of Queensland and New South Wales, which together
account for about half the nation’s economy. The severe weather
left six people dead, disrupted mining operations in Queensland
and caused an estimated A$187 million ($196 million) in
insurance losses. While the damage is less than floods and
storms two years ago, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  has acknowledged that
costs would have an impact on the  federal budget .  “From a national perspective it’s not anywhere near as
bad” as the damage caused by flooding and Cyclone Yasi in 2011,
said  Stephen Walters , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s chief economist in
Australia. “But it’s still early days, let’s just reserve final
judgment until we see what’s happened once the waters recede.”  Thousands of people were evacuated and hundreds more are
isolated by floodwaters in rural settlements across the two
states after the storm brought devastating winds and heavy rain.
Australian troops assisted with rescue efforts in the two
states, which experienced about A$9 billion in lost output when
they were hit by flooding and Cyclone Yasi in 2011.  Smaller Impact  The combination of Yasi and the floods took off about 1
percentage point of gross domestic product, Walters said. “A
back of the envelope” calculation suggests these floods may
cost up to 0.3 percent, he said.  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES)  cut its coking coal sales forecast from its
Curragh mine in Queensland to a range of 7.5 million tons to 8
million tons for the year ending June 30, saying heavy rains and
localized flooding this month has hit production and disrupted
deliveries.  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  operations are back to normal after a
brief suspension because of rain, and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s sites
are operating, the companies said yesterday.  The  Insurance Council of Australia  said 21,000 claims have
been made so far with estimated insurance losses of A$187
million, according to the body.  Claims Surge  “We expect to see a surge of claims coming through now
that we have assessors on the ground,” Robert Whelan, chief
executive of the council, said in an interview with Bloomberg
TV. “People are returning to their damaged properties so we do
expect this to accelerate. The magnitude is less than 2011.”  Six people have been killed, including a 27-year-old man
who was swept away by floodwaters and a 3-year-old boy struck by
a falling tree, according to state police.  Residents in Greater Brisbane and Ipswich are being told to
conserve water as the Mount Crosby water treatment plant comes
back on line, according to Seqwater, the state body responsible
for ensuring safe supplies. The turbidity levels in the Brisbane
River continue to be higher than experienced during the January
2011 flood, it said in a statement on its  website .  Pockets of sugarcane crops are likely to have suffered
major damage from flooding in southern Queensland, industry
group Canegrowers said in an e-mailed  statement . The nation’s
cane production is unlikely to be significantly affected, it
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Johnson in Sydney at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  