-- Overdue Student Loans Reach ‘Unsustainable’ 15%, Fair Isaac Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-01-29T21:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/overdue-student-loans-reach-unsustainable-15-fair-isaac-says.html
Delinquency rates on student loans
made in the past two years stand at 15 percent in the U.S. as
recent graduates struggle to find jobs,  Fair Isaac Corp. (FICO)  said.  The rate for 2010 through 2012 compares with 12.4 percent
for loans made from 2005 to 2007, Fair Isaac’s FICO Labs said in
a statement today, citing data from October. Average student-
loan debt last year rose to $27,253 from $17,233 in 2005, and
almost 60 percent of bank managers surveyed in December expect
delinquencies to worsen in six months, FICO said.  “This situation is simply unsustainable and we’re already
suffering the consequences,” Andrew Jennings, chief analytics
officer of Fair Issac, said in the statement. “When wage growth
is slow and jobs are not as plentiful as they once were, it is
impossible for individuals to continue taking out ever-larger
student loans without greatly increasing the risk of default.”  Student loans are the largest source of unsecured  consumer
debt  in the U.S., according to the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, and the rise in unpaid loans has spurred speculation
about a possible bubble. With college costs climbing faster than
the rate of inflation over the past four decades, education debt
has  swelled  to $1 trillion, more than what Americans owe on
their credit cards.  Subprime Loans  Subprime mortgage  delinquencies, which helped trigger a
global credit crunch during the last decade, reached 15 percent
in the middle of 2007 as the financial crisis gathered momentum.  Fair Isaac is the Minneapolis-based developer of the FICO
score, a measurement of consumer credit risk that banks use to
decide whether to extend loans and what interest rate to charge.  Loans from banks and other private lenders make up about 15
percent of the outstanding student debt,  Mark Kantrowitz , who
runs FinAid.org, a website about college grants and loans, said
in an interview. The top five private lenders include  SLM Corp. (SLM) 
or  Sallie Mae ,  Discover Financial Services (DFS) ,  PNC Financial
Services Group Inc. (PNC) ,  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
he said.  Sallie Mae, based in Newark, Delaware, reported on Jan. 16
that loan delinquencies fell to 4.6 percent in the fourth-
quarter of 2012 from 4.9 percent the previous year. The lender
made $514 million in education loans in the fourth quarter, 12.5
percent more than the previous year, the company said.  Discover, the Riverwoods, Illinois-based credit-card firm
that bought a loan portfolio and the Student Loan Corp. business
from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  last year, recorded $7.74 billion of private
student debt at the end of November.  SunTrust, based in Atlanta, reported $5.36 billion in
guaranteed student loans at the end of 2012, down 26 percent
from the previous year.  “You’re starting to see delinquencies pick up and that
trend is going to continue,” Michael Tarkan, an analyst at
Compass Point Research & Trading in Washington said in an
interview. “That’s the reality that we live with in student
loans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  