-- How to Defuse the North Korean Threat
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-29T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/how-to-defuse-the-north-korean-threat.html
With his bombastic threat of “high-
profile” retaliation against the U.S. (translation: more tests
of nuclear bombs and missiles), North Korean leader Kim Jong Un
seems determined to tantrum his way to the top of President
 Barack Obama ’s second-term foreign-policy agenda.  As the  mythical  orientalism goes, in crisis there is
opportunity. North Korea’s bellicose response to tighter United
Nations sanctions has raised tensions with its closest ally,
China. That, along with the confluence of several political
transitions, offers a chance to contain and even reduce the
dangers posed by one of the world’s most opaque and oppressive
regimes.  The U.S., which is technically still at  war  with North
Korea, has predicated peace talks on the North’s willingness to
give up its pursuit of nuclear weapons. Six-nation talks --
involving the North, the U.S., China, Japan,  Russia  and South
Korea -- to ease tensions haven’t been held since December 2008.
In its most recent statement, the North said it will only give
up its nukes when everyone else gives up theirs, and that the
six-party talks and a previous agreement of principles with the
U.S. are null and void.  That’s the  bad news .  A sliver of hope comes from  China , North Korea’s biggest
trading partner and supplier of aid. Not only does China now
support tighter sanctions -- albeit not as tight as the U.S.
wanted -- but Xi Jinping, the general secretary of the Communist
Party, has also called the North’s nuclear program
 “intolerable.”  The newly installed Xi has little interest in
another regional dust-up, especially given China’s territorial
spat with Japan and the need to make nice with a re-elected
Obama administration.  As a recent  report  by Bonnie Glaser of the Center for
Strategic and International Studies notes, there is ample
evidence of friction between China and North Korea. With North
Korea lurching from crisis to crisis, Chinese policy makers are
finding it harder to balance their interests: stability on the
peninsula, influence over North Korea, better ties with the U.S.
and South Korea, and a more positive international image.  Unfortunately, China’s stiff words -- which included a hint
of a reduction in aid -- will probably not dissuade the North
from holding another nuclear test. For North Korea, a nuclear
deterrent is a cheaper and more effective means of ensuring
regime survival than a million or so troops armed with mostly
obsolescent technology.  So when North Korea goes ahead with its test, which looks
 imminent , the Obama administration should push the Chinese hard
for a coordinated response. If the Chinese balk, the U.S. will
be justified in cooperating more closely with  Japan  and South
Korea on missile defense, maritime patrols, counterproliferation
initiatives and other strategic efforts that China won’t like.
The U.S. also has to build relations with South Korea’s incoming
president, Park Geun Hye, who wisely wants to  move away  from the
reflexively hardline stance of her predecessor. The U.S. would
be smart to take up Park’s suggestion of a China-U.S.-South
Korea dialogue.  As we have argued, better implementation of the existing
narrow sanctions would also help constrain the North; the just-
approved UN resolution, for example, will make it easier to
conduct inspections of North Korean-flagged ships. That could
curtail its cooperation with  Iran . Russia could help by
providing more insight into how much assistance its experts in
the 1990s gave North Korea’s missile program, whose homegrown
progress is a matter of  debate .  The challenge will be to find ways to expose and constrain
North Korean behavior, including its deplorable human-rights
record, without deepening the isolation and privation of its
people. What North Korea needs is more visits by the likes of
 Eric Schmidt , executive chairman of Google Inc. It needs more
economic and cultural engagement with the rest of the world.
That may be hard to do when the air is filled with acrid
belligerence. But whoever said that healing the last wound of
the Cold War was going to be easy?  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 