-- How We Crunched Numbers to Rank Emerging and Frontier Markets
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   R a n k i n g s
-- 2013-01-29T22:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/how-we-crunched-numbers-to-rank-emerging-and-frontier-markets.html
To compile the ranking of the most
promising emerging and frontier markets for investors that will
be published in the March issue of Bloomberg Markets magazine,
countries were awarded points based on their relative
performance in each of more than a dozen areas.  The worst-performing country received zero points, while
the best-performing country received the maximum number of
points assigned to that category. Scores for all variables were
summed, with a range for the final score being 0 to 100.  For the frontier markets, which are generally less
developed than  emerging markets , greater weight was given to the
macroeconomic forecast data from the  International Monetary
Fund . Liquidity data for Botswana’s equity market weren’t
available, so we gave Botswana the median score of all other
countries.  The areas we looked at included IMF forecasts for 2013 to
2017 for GDP growth, inflation, government debt and total
investment. We also measured demographic and economic
development data using current figures from the World Bank and
the  International Energy Agency  on literacy rate, age of
population, labor participation and electricity consumption.  For financial markets, we used Bloomberg data on the price-
earnings ratio of the equity market, liquidity and currency
volatility.  Last, we included each country’s position in three outside
rankings: the  World Bank ’s Ease of Doing Business Index,
Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index and
the Wall Street Journal/ Heritage Foundation ’s Index of Economic
Freedom.  The frontier-markets ranking also included net energy
imports as a percentage of total energy used. This World Bank
figure helps determine the countries’ vulnerability to energy
price swings. Countries that rely heavily on energy exports or
imports were considered higher risk and therefore earned fewer
points for this category.  To contact the Bloomberg Rankings team
 Rankings@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby in  New York  at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net . 