-- Lower Rates Push Yield Seekers to Higher Risk
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2013-01-29T23:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/lower-rates-push-yield-seekers-to-higher-risk.html
In recent years, a grand disconnect
has opened between economies around the world, which are growing
anemically if at all, and the bullishness of investors who only
care that central banks are willing to continue shoveling out
liquidity.  “Don’t fight the Fed” is the rallying cry, especially among
equity bulls. And for 2012, at least the latter part, they were
right. Almost every major stock market rose: in the U.S., U.K.,
 Europe  -- even  Greece  --  Japan ,  China ,  Australia  and  Canada .  Financial deleveraging in private sectors around the globe
has swamped immense monetary and fiscal stimulus to the extent
that economic growth is subdued at best. In desperation,
monetary policies have become highly experimental. Huge
government deficits are limiting the possibility of additional
fiscal stimulus so policy makers are moving toward competitive
devaluations. Meanwhile, low  interest rates  have spawned
distortions as well as zeal for yield, regardless of risks.  Last year, the recession in the euro area deepened and the
U.K. suffered three consecutive quarters of falling real gross
domestic product. Growth rates in China dropped and Japan had
two consecutive quarters of declining economic activity, a
technical recession. Economic growth in the U.S. remains
lackluster after the deepest recession since the 1930s. In sum,
the global economy is weak.  No Fear  Nevertheless, investors are pursuing “risk on” trades. They
are long major stock markets, junk bonds and emerging-market
debt, and they are short the dollar against the euro and against
commodity-based currencies. And because there is no fear of
risk, the investments with the highest yields have been the most
sought after even though the highest yield reflects the greatest
risks. As a result, yields have plummeted to record-low levels
as asset prices rose.  Record-low interest rates have created many
distortions. With a zero percent  federal-funds rate , the  Federal
Reserve  has no room to react to economic weakness. If deflation
unfolds, the central bank can’t push real rates negative so as
to stimulate borrowing. That’s the problem facing deflationary
Japan. Furthermore, the lack of response from lenders and
borrowers to near-zero interest rates is what pushed the Fed,
the  Bank of England  and, earlier, the  Bank of Japan  into the new
world of quantitative easing. This and other non-interest-rate
actions taken previously have moved the Fed uncomfortably close
to fiscal policy, threatening its independence.  The federal government, of course, isn’t the only borrower
benefiting from low interest costs and negative real
rates. Residential  mortgagors , if they can qualify for loans,
are getting a break with 30-year rates at 3.37 percent. Home-
mortgage refinancing applications are soaring.  Investment-grade companies have been able to issue debt and
refinance at low rates. Low interest rates have also encouraged
the issuance of below-investment-grade junk bonds, and many
companies have, in effect, pre-refunded their debt.  In his August speech at  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , Fed Chairman
 Ben Bernanke  emphasized the benefits of low interest rates, and
never mentioned the losers. Neither, to my knowledge, have any
important administration officials or members of Congress. Yet
near-zero interest rates are causing harm to many.  Consider savers who are receiving trivial returns on their
bank and money-market accounts that would be negative if fund
managers weren’t waiving fees. Furthermore, free checking
accounts are disappearing. Banks and thrifts, facing low-
interest earnings, have increased the size of the required
balance on checking accounts that pay no interest. In addition,
many savers earlier deserted money-market funds for the safety
of Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.-insured accounts.  Savings Rate  Will Americans be discouraged by low interest-rate returns
and save less, or will they save more to reach lifetime goals? I
predict the latter, which is one more reason why I expect the
household saving rate to climb back to more than 10 percent. At
the same time, low-interest returns in conjunction with distrust
of stocks and previous huge losses on owner-occupied houses are
forcing many of the vastly undersaved members of the postwar
generation to work well beyond their expected retirements.  So what can savers do now that the Fed plans to maintain
short-term interest rates close to zero through 2015, and
probably longer as deleveraging keeps the economy subdued and
unemployment high? Hope for the arrival of deflation, which will
push real interest rates from negative to positive.  Some investors are pursuing the haven of FDIC-insured
deposits, now limited to $250,000 per account. Others,
unsatisfied with low nominal and negative real returns, are
moving out on the risk spectrum. Bernanke acknowledged this
possibility in his Jackson Hole speech. “Some observers have
raised concerns that, by driving longer-term yields lower,
nontraditional policies could induce an imprudent reach for
yield by some investors and thereby threaten financial
stability.”  Yet he dismissed the threat, saying, “We have seen little
evidence thus far of unsafe buildup of risk or leverage.”  I see lots of potentially unsafe buildups. Consider the
rush into  junk bonds , depressing their yields and spreads versus
Treasuries. So much money has poured into below-investment grade
debt that it now takes real skill to default. So great is the
investor appetite for yield that 46 percent of junk bonds are
selling at or above the prices at which they can be called by
the issuer. However, a global recession will hype defaults even
though many low-rated companies have a cushion of safety from
prefunded debt.  Corporate Bonds  Relatively safer U.S. investment-grade corporate-bond funds
expanded their holdings to $131 billion, from $75 billion in
2011, as yields dropped to a record low of 2.6 percent.
Meanwhile, junk-bond funds bought $30.1 billion, compared with
$13.8 billion in 2011. Yields on BB bonds, the middle of the
junk pile, fell from 6 percent at the start of 2012 to 4.5
percent at year’s end. Their spread versus 10-year Treasuries
fell from four percentage points to 2.7 percentage points.  And those top-quality Treasury notes returned only 2.8
percent last year as 30-year Treasury bonds had a total return
of 1.7 percent. Yields even influenced stock selection: Mutual-
fund investors put $21 billion into dividend-paying funds and
removed $24 billion from U.S. stock funds.  In another questionable maneuver to satisfy the zeal for
yield, some managers of mutual bond funds are investing in
riskier assets; they then compare their results with their
benchmarks, which are composed of safer bonds. This can be
dangerous. In 2008, about 40 funds that had big holdings of
mortgage-backed securities and derivatives outside their
benchmarks lost 10 percent or more, according to Morningstar
Inc.  There has also been a rush into emerging-market bonds and
stocks, even though almost all of those economies are driven by
exports, the vast majority of which are bought by Europe, now
clearly in a recession, and the U.S., which may be soon. Just
look at sliding Chinese export growth.  Chronic low interest rates leave defined-benefit pension
plans, corporate and public, in the U.S. and elsewhere, with
tough choices. They need to reduce asset-return targets and
discount rates to more realistic levels, but that means more
contributions and/or reduced benefits. Cutting pension benefits
is always difficult, especially when such decisions are
constrained by union contracts.  The only other alternative is to increase returns, so
pension plans have joined the zeal-for-yield crowd. And this
often involves increased risks that may not be fully understood
by those plan sponsors. The list of alternative investment
classes includes real estate, private equity, developing-country
stocks and bonds,  hedge funds  and commodities. But returns,
especially adjusted for risk, may be disappointing.  Norwegian Pensions  The recent rush by normally conservative Norwegians into
U.S. real estate may be a sign that the zeal for yield may be
coming to an end. It reminds me of the 1980s stampede by
Japanese investors into Midwest farmlands,  Pebble Beach  and
Rockefeller Center. This exercise relieved the Japanese of
excess savings when they later unloaded those properties at huge
losses.  Norway’s Government Pension Fund Global, which is funded by
oil and gas revenue, is the world’s largest sovereign-wealth
fund, with more than $680 billion in assets. It has a $34.1
billion real-estate allocation, with $11.2 billion earmarked for
the U.S. The fund spent the past two years acquiring high-end
real estate in Europe, and now is considering high-priced U.S.
office and retail space.  Those are properties that are well located, well leased and
attractive to U.S. pension funds and foreign investors who
prefer safe-and-sound, low-return “core” real estate -- with 4
percent to 5 percent cash-on-cash returns -- rather than
riskier, but higher-return, “value-added” properties. Still, the
Norwegians’ long-horizon strategy may work. The fund continues
to grow, and it prefers to invest in real estate with
knowledgeable partners.  As long as the grand disconnect and the zeal for yield
persist, “risk on” trades will continue. “Risk on” will turn
quickly to “risk off,” however, if a major shock, such as a huge
increase in  oil prices  or a failure by the U.S. to deal with its
budget  deficit  and government debt, occurs and a global
recession ensures.  In Part 4 and Part 5, I will detail my “risk on” strategy
for now and my “risk off” approach for the aftermath of a
substantial shock.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own. This is the third in a five-part series.
Read  Part 1  and  Part 2 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  