-- Toyota Spices Up Middle-Aged Corolla to Bolster Profits
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-01-30T09:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/toyota-spices-up-middle-aged-corolla-to-bolster-profits.html
With  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  back on top
as the world’s largest automaker, President Akio Toyoda isn’t
looking to a relative youngster like the Prius hybrid to defend
that lead. Instead, he’s counting on a middle-aged veteran: the
47-year-old Corolla.  Later this year -- the company hasn’t said when or where --
Toyota plans to introduce a revamped version of its global best
seller, which last underwent a redesign in  2008 . No launch is
more consequential for Toyota this year as the Prius isn’t due
for a major change until 2014 and a new Camry sedan came out
only about a year ago.  For Toyoda, the compact will be a chance to build on
pledges to make cars that are more fun to drive and shed some of
the company’s reputation for blandness. More relevant for
investors, the success of the top-selling car in history will
help determine Toyota’s ability to return to the  profitability 
it enjoyed before the global financial crisis and the recall of
millions of vehicles.  The Corolla “might be viewed as boring by some, but for
others it’s bulletproof,” said  Kurt Sanger , an auto analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG in  Tokyo , who has a buy rating on Toyota stock.
“The profit per unit might be lower than other models, but if
you sell that many, you’re going to make money.”  Sanger is optimistic over Toyota’s money-making prospects.
He’s among a dozen analysts tracked by Bloomberg who’ve raised
earnings estimates for the automaker in the past month as the
tumbling yen raises the value of Japanese exports.  The Japanese currency hit 91.32 today, the weakest since
June 2010. Toyota’s annual operating profit gains by 35 billion
yen ($384 million) for every 1-yen drop in the value of the
Japanese currency against the dollar, according to the carmaker.  Bland Sedan  Toyota has sold almost 40 million Corollas over the years,
Tokyo-based spokesman Jiecheng Fang said. Though the car
remained Toyota’s top seller in 2012 -- estimated by the company
at 1.21 million deliveries worldwide -- Corolla sales have
fallen from a peak of 1.42 million units in 2006 as  Honda Motor
Co. (7267) ’s Civic and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s Elantra won customers with
fuel economy and lower prices.  The Civic overtook the Corolla as the best-selling compact
sedan in the U.S. last year, according to researcher Autodata
Corp. This year, global sales of the Corolla will probably
increase 7 percent to 1.3 million units, according to Takeshi Miyao, an analyst with researcher Carnorama  Japan  in Tokyo.  The declining popularity of the Corolla -- described as
“bland” by Consumer Reports magazine in 2012 -- has been
mirrored in the company’s earnings and share price, which have
fallen since their peaks after the yen appreciated and recalls
for defects associated with unintended acceleration dented
Toyota’s reputation for quality.  Toyota’s profit  forecast  for the fiscal year ending March
31 is less than half the amount five years ago. The stock is
trading at about half its level in 2007, when its market value
ranked fourth worldwide, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brad Pitt  While the company has returned to pre-crisis levels of
quality, based on assessments at J.D. Power & Associates and
 Consumer Reports , the company is still facing safety recalls.
Toyota said today it’s calling back almost 1.3 million vehicles,
including 901,000 Corollas.  Toyota, which reports earnings next week, will probably
triple its net income to 893 billion yen this fiscal year and
earn 1.2 trillion yen next year, according to the average of 24
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The Corolla, meaning “crown of
flowers” in Latin, is seen to be among the top sellers.  “The Corolla remains incredibly important to Toyota,”
said Neil King, global head of automotive research at
Euromonitor International in  London .  The car’s history stretches back almost five decades, when
Eiji Toyoda, the current president’s great uncle, first swept
the U.S. with a vehicle that helped the company ascend to the
top of the automotive industry.  Since the first one rolled out in 1966, Toyota has used
figures ranging from Homer Simpson to  Brad Pitt  to market the
car to the masses. Among them was a young man who bought a used
fourth-generation Corolla 1600GT as his first car. His name:
Akio Toyoda.  Toyota Appliance  “The car taught me the joy of driving,” Toyoda, whose
grandfather founded the company in 1937, said last May at a
Corolla event in the Japanese city of Ohira. “It was like a
good friend.”  Sandy Grossman, who’s owned two Corollas and is in the
market for a new car for his wife, has less fond memories.  “Toyota has become the dullest car company on the
planet,” said Grossman of Coral Springs,  Florida . “Since the
late ’90s, they have driven me away with boring vehicles that
look and feel like an appliance”  Toyota, which typically redesigns its cars every five years,
is stepping up efforts to revive interest. At the  Detroit auto
show  this month, it showed off the  Corolla Furia  concept vehicle
in a presentation punctuated by a snatch of Mariachi music and a
comedic dance by Toyota U.S. Vice President Bill Fay. The
sunburst-orange Furia, meaning “fury” in Spanish, was a few
inches longer, wider and lower slung than Corollas in
dealerships today.  Younger Target  Toyota officials at the show said the next commercially-
available Corolla will show Akio Toyoda’s influence, though they
didn’t provide details of its design, features, or price. Kota Yuzawa, an auto analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Tokyo,
said in a report this month that the potential changes signal a
greater focus on younger customers.  Toyota won’t be able to rely on its past success to make
the next Corolla a hit as it faces intensifying competition from
 South Korea ’s Hyundai Motor and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) ,  General Motors
Co. (GM) , Ford Motor Co. and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , according to  Maryann Keller , principal at consulting firm Maryann Keller & Associates
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “The Corolla needs to become more interesting,” Keller
said. “The same attributes that attracted shoppers 20 years ago
don’t work today.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  