-- PBGC Sues the Renco Group Over RG Steel Unfunded Pension
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-01-29T03:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/pbgc-sues-the-renco-group-over-rg-steel-s-unfunded-liabilities.html
The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp.
sued the Renco Group Inc. over $97.2 million in unfunded pension
liabilities at its bankrupt RG Steel LLC unit, once the fourth-
biggest U.S. flat-rolled steelmaker.  The agency claims Renco deceived it in January 2012 when it
was ready to terminate the pension plans. Renco executed a
financing transaction that month with an affiliate of Cerberus
Capital Management LP in an effort to avoid the financial
obligations of the former steel-maker’s pension shortfall,
according to a complaint filed today in federal court in
 Manhattan .  This is the second time this month that Renco or its
billionaire founder Ira L. Rennert have come under attack over
the pension obligations. This month, RG Steel’s creditors asked
for court permission to sue Rennert, claiming he delayed the
bankruptcy to reduce Renco’s ownership in RG Steel to skirt the
unfunded pension liabilities.  “The facts will show that these claims are baseless,”
Andrew Shea, a spokesman for Renco, said in a phone interview.  Renco entered into a deal with a Cerberus affiliate on Jan.
17, 2012, that reduced its ownership in RG Steel to 75.5
percent, decreasing its equity stake below the 80 percent
threshold that would have left it on the hook for the pension
obligations, according to court papers.  ‘Express Representations’  One business day before the transaction, “Renco requested
that PBGC not initiate proceedings to terminate the plans and,
to induce PBGC to refrain, falsely represented that no
transaction was imminent,” the  agency  said in court filings.
“The consummation of the transaction was directly contrary to
Renco’s express representations,” which the PBGC relied on to
forgo the termination.  During those discussions, Renco had indicated that it was
willing to sign a standstill agreement with the PBGC, under
which it would remain liable for the pensions even if the stake
was reduced below 80 percent, according to the complaint. Renco
never signed the agreement.  The steps taken to remove the pension plans from Renco, its
misrepresentations just before the transaction, and RG Steel’s
insolvency “confirm that the principal purpose of the
transaction was to evade pension related liabilities,” the PBGC
said in the complaint.  Liability  The agency is asking the court to rule that Renco is liable
for the total amount of RG Steel’s unfunded pensions with
interest and damages for fraud, fraudulent concealment and
negligent misrepresentations.  New York-based Renco Group bought the three-plant
steelmaker from  Russia ’s  OAO Severstal (CHMF)  in 2011 for about $1.2
billion, less than three years after Severstal acquired it for
$2.2 billion. Renco created RG Steel to buy the mills, which
could produce 8.2 million tons of steel a year.  RG Steel said it was forced to seek  bankruptcy protection 
because of “substantial liquidity problems” it began to face
during mid-2011, “driven by a rapid decline in steel prices,
while raw material prices remained at peak levels,” according
to court filings. The company, based in Sparrows Point,
 Maryland , listed assets and debt of more than $1 billion each in
Chapter 11 documents filed May 31.  The case is Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. v. The Renco
Group Inc., 13-cv-621, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  