-- Pearl Oriental Executives Questioned by Anti-Graft Agency
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-01-29T23:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/pearl-oriental-executives-questioned-by-anti-graft-agency.html
Pearl Oriental Oil Ltd. (632)  said that
Chairman Wong Yuk-kwan, a deputy chairman and an executive
director were questioned by  Hong Kong ’s anti-graft agency in
connection with an investigation into alleged bribery offenses.  Wong, Deputy Chairman Lew Mon-hung and Executive Director
Cheung Kwok-yu have been released on bail by the  Independent
Commission Against Corruption , haven’t been charged and are free
to travel, Pearl Oriental, based in Hong Kong, said in a filing
to the city’s stock exchange yesterday.  “The company has been required to provide certain
information to the ICAC but as far as the board is aware,
neither of the company nor its subsidiaries was the subject of
the investigation,” Pearl Oriental said in the filing.  Pearl Oriental’s board has formed a special committee to
review matters that may arise out of the allegations, and
company operations are normal, according to the filing. The
executive directors concerned will abstain from voting in
respect of any matters related to allegations. The stock, which
was halted from trading on Jan. 8, remains suspended until
further notice, the company said.  As part of the investigation, an administrative manager was
also questioned by the ICAC and released without charge, the
company said.  Wong is also the company’s largest shareholder, with a
consolidated stake of 36.5 percent, according to  data  from the
Hong Kong stock exchange. Lew has a 5.6 percent stake.  The company also announced the appointment of Mohamad Ajami
as a deputy chairman and  executive director  and Hilal Al-Busaidi
as executive director, as well as a possible investment in the
oil and gas industry in Russia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  