-- Peru Plans Focus on Repaying Multilateral Loans
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-01-29T19:57:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/peru-will-focus-on-repaying-multilateral-loans-castilla-says.html
Peru ’s plan to pay down foreign debt
as part of an effort to stem the currency’s rally will focus on
the repayment of multilateral loans rather than bonds, Finance
Minister Miguel Castilla said.  The $2 billion program, part of a bigger $4 billion effort
to curb the sol’s four-year rally, would only include the
repurchase of bonds “if the pricing makes sense,” Castilla
said in an interview in New York. Peru will purchase dollars in
the local market to repay the loans.  Peru’s sol reached a 16-year high this month even after the
central bank bought a record $13.9 billion in the spot market in
2012. The currency was little changed at 2.5615 per U.S. dollar
at the close in Lima.  Nations from  Russia  to  Chile  have expressed concern over
the appreciation of their currencies as investors from developed
markets plow money into higher-yielding assets.  “The expansive policies in the U.S. and  Europe  are not
taking in consideration that there’s an undesirable collateral
effect,” he said. “The strengthening of the currencies in
 emerging markets  can have damaging effects if it’s not managed
adequately.”  To ease the appreciation of the sol, Peru may also increase
the percentage of assets that local pension funds can invest
abroad to 34 percent from 32 percent as soon as next month,
Castilla said.  Peru will also add $1.5 billion to $2 billion to a
contingency fund as part of the plan to stem the currency’s
appreciation, he said. The government can draw money from the $7
billion fund if a natural disaster or other type of crisis
threatens domestic growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  