-- Peugeot Ordered to Pause Restructuring as Workers Strike
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-01-29T17:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/peugeot-must-suspend-job-cuts-during-faurecia-process-correct-.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  was ordered by a
court to pause its restructuring plans as auto workers across
France went on strike to protest industrywide job cuts amid
signs the decline in European car demand is accelerating.  Workers burned tires and blocked access to some  Renault SA (RNO) 
factories and protested outside a Peugeot plant in a Paris
suburb that is set to close. A court in the French capital said
separately that Peugeot can’t eliminate jobs until a parts
supplier that it controls tells workers how they may be affected
by the automaker’s reorganization.  The two companies are struggling to convince French labor
leaders to go along with plans to eliminate 18,700 positions, or
roughly 17 percent of their workforces in the country, as
 Europe ’s auto market plunges for a sixth straight year.  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  today said the outlook for the region deteriorated in
the fourth quarter, forecasting a 2013 loss in Europe of $2
billion, up from an estimate of $1.5 billion.  “The context remains difficult, with declining sales and
ongoing overcapacity,” said Florent Couvreur, an analyst at CM-
CIC Securities in Paris. “The European car market will go on
deteriorating this year and I think it will decrease by about 4
percent.”  Shares Decline  French workers are shielded by  labor laws  requiring
employers to take extensive steps to ensure employees are
regularly and fully informed about job-cut proposals. Faurecia
SA, 57 percent-owned by Peugeot, was ordered to inform its
workers about the impact of Peugeot’s restructuring before the
carmaker can implement its plan.  Faurecia (EO)  is itself aiming to
cut about 3,000 jobs in its home region by the end of 2013.  Peugeot  dropped  11 cents, or 1.7 percent, to 6.20 in Paris
trading. The shares have plunged 50 percent in the last 12
months, valuing Europe’s second-largest carmaker at 2.2 billion
euros. Faurecia fell 2.1 percent to 13.39 euros.  Peugeot plans to shrink its French automotive operations by
 11,200 positions  over the next two years. The automaker is also
closing a factory in Aulnay on the outskirts of Paris, selling
assets and building a strategic alliance with General Motors Co.  “The effects of the restructuring under way at Peugeot
haven’t been the subject of a consultation with the Faurecia”
workers, the court said in a ruling dated yesterday. “As a
result, there’s grounds to order the suspension of the
restructuring” until Faurecia informs its workers.  Worker Protests  About 120 Peugeot workers were on strike in Aulnay, slowing
production to about 100 cars as of midday from a normal daily
output of about 500, according to Anne-Laure Descleves, a
spokeswoman for the Paris-based company.  All six Renault production plants in  France  were affected
by walkouts today as 3,444 employees, or about 8 percent of the
French workforce, protested plans to cut 7,500 jobs in the
country in the next four years, spokeswoman Sophie Chantegay
said.  Renault, whose sales dropped the most in Europe last year,
told labor representatives this month it may shutter two French
factories unless it can agree with unions on how to increase
productivity, rein in pay and cut its workforce, according to
the CFE-CGC union.  European auto sales plunged 16 percent in December,
bringing the decline for the year in the region to 7.8 percent,
according to the Brussels-based European Automobile
Manufacturers’ Association, or ACEA. Renault deliveries in the
region in 2012 plummeted 19 percent, while Peugeot dropped 13
percent.  Increasing Cuts  The court only ordered Peugeot not to execute the cuts
until Faurecia has consulted its workers, and that the ruling
“neither suspended and certainly didn’t cancel” the
restructuring program, the automaker said in a statement.
Faurecia “will undertake this consultation without delay,” it
said today.  Europe’s car market is forecast to drop to 12.3 million
vehicles this year, 23 percent below the pre-crisis peak, IHS
Automotive research company estimates. Automakers across the
region have announced 30,000 job cuts since the beginning of
July in response to the prolonged slump.  General Motors Co. (GM) , seeing  Germany  at risk of slipping into
recession, said last week that its Opel brand may shutter a
factory in that country two years earlier than planned as the
European auto market sinks for a sixth straight year. The
factory employs 3,100 workers. Ford is slashing 6,200 positions
and closing three plants in the region.  “The business environment remains uncertain, and Ford will
continue to monitor the situation in Europe and take further
action as necessary,’ the U.S. automaker said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  