-- Pfizer Will Consider Split of Drug Units, CEO Read Says
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-01-30T21:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/pfizer-forecasts-full-year-profit-higher-than-analyst-estimates.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, may consider dividing its branded medicines and
generic products units into separate businesses, Chief Executive
Officer Ian Read said.  Any split would be a long-term proposition first requiring
changes to parts of Pfizer’s existing operations, Read said
yesterday on a conference call with analysts. “We will look at
it,” he said when asked about the possibility of a bigger
breakup of the New York-based company.  Read’s comments echoed those of Geno Germano, president of
the company’s specialty care and oncology business, who told
Bloomberg News Jan. 15 that Pfizer may reorganize its drug
operations into two units. Those comments led analysts to
suggest that kind of business shuffle may be a step toward
splitting Pfizer into separate companies.  “We will move toward separate management, and at that
point we’ll evaluate whether shareholders would prefer to have
the opportunity to invest in two separate companies or not,”
Read said. “There’s not really a point in speculating on
this.”  Pfizer is seeking as much as $2.2 billion from its animal
health unit, called Zoetis Inc., in an initial public offering.
Read’s strategy of divesting non-drug units, share buybacks and
new medicines has helped boost Pfizer shares 29 percent in the
past 12 months through yesterday.  Current Structure  Pfizer  fell  less than 1 percent to $27.51 at the close in
New York.  Read said Pfizer’s operations in developed markets like the
U.S. and Europe already are structured into separate units for
new, brand-name drugs and generics. The company may move toward
a similar business structure in  emerging markets , which in most
places base operations around the country or region instead of
by types of drugs.  “It is still possible that Pfizer will go the full
distance and eventually split up the drugs side of the
business,” Tim Anderson, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co., said today. “Pfizer has begun to raise this possibility
consistently in its meetings with investors, and the question is
whether it could really happen or not.”  Pfizer’s new drugs business will have about $36 billion in
sales in 2013, and its generic medicines line $17 billion, Jami Rubin, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. who has led
speculation about a breakup, said earlier this month.  Pfizer plans to sell at least 86.1 million Zoetis shares
for $22 to $25 each, the midpoint of which would value the
company at $11.8 billion. The IPO is scheduled to price
tomorrow, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  