-- Pfizer to 3M Beating Sales Estimates at Highest Rate Since 2011
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-01-29T19:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/pfizer-to-3m-beating-sales-estimates-at-highest-rate-since-2011.html
U.S. companies from  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  to
 3M Co. (MMM)  are beating analysts’ quarterly sales estimates at the
highest rate in 1 1/2 years, undeterred by political gridlock in
 Washington  and slowing demand in  China .  Of 175 companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index that
have reported fourth-quarter results so far, 67 percent have
 exceeded  analysts’ average revenue projections. That’s the
highest percentage since the second quarter of 2011, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Fewer than half the companies had
surprise sales gains in the second and third quarters.  Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, today  reported 
revenue of $15.1 billion, beating the estimate of $14.4 billion
in its biggest positive surprise in five quarters. 3M, which
reaches both companies and consumers with products from
sandpaper to Post-it sticky notes, last week exceeded
projections on its best sales gain in a year.  “We are seeing a pickup in global growth and business
activity, so companies are beating” estimates, Nick Raich,
research director at KeyCorp’s private banking unit in
 Cleveland , said yesterday. The unit manages about $25 billion.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  topped fourth-quarter sales estimates today
with a 5.8 percent increase on higher F-Series pickup demand.
Ford’s automotive revenue rose to $34.5 billion, ahead of the
$33 billion average prediction on higher F-Series pickup demand.  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , the largest U.S. Web portal, yesterday posted
a 4.5 percent sales increase for its biggest jump in more than
four years. The Sunnyvale, California-based company in 2012
recorded its first revenue gain in four years after collecting
higher prices for ads placed on the company’s pages and
increasing revenue from search-related marketing messages.  Markets Respond  Yahoo’s profit also beat estimates, putting it among the 76
percent of S&P 500 companies reporting so far that exceeded
earnings projections. The third-quarter rate was 71 percent.  While sales gains for  S&P 500 (SPX)  companies may more than
quadruple to 4.6 percent by this year’s third quarter, based on
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, the results may be uneven.
Ford, for example, today said its 2013 loss in  Europe  may be
bigger than its previous projection because a possible recession
would sap demand for cars. And yesterday, Yahoo’s sales
forecasts for the current quarter and 2013 fell short of
analysts’ predictions.  Even so, stock markets worldwide are reflecting companies’
improving performances.  The S&P 500 rose 5.2 percent this year through yesterday,
aided by low interest and mortgage rates that have spurred
borrowing and demand for housing. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) 
rose about 3.5 percent in the same period while the  FTSE MIB
Index (FTSEMIB) , consisting of 40 stocks listed on the Borsa Italiana,
climbed 10 percent.  ‘Sustained Growth’  “The economic fundamentals are increasingly warming for
sustained economic growth and higher equity prices,” Ed Hyman,
chairman of New York-based International Strategy & Investment
Group, wrote today in a note to clients. “Despite tax hikes and
budget-negotiations overhang, weekly, monthly and first-quarter
preliminary economic data seems robust.”  St. Paul, Minnesota-based 3M boosted sales by 4.2 percent
with higher demand in the U.S., Latin America and China. Sales
from existing businesses climbed 16 percent in China, even as
economic growth slowed in Asia last year.  “For the base business we see a recovery coming and we
feel optimistic about that,” 3M Chief Executive Officer Inge Thulin told analysts last week. “We’re still cautious.”  Reflecting that caution, some of the companies are matching
or beating previously lowered forecasts. Peoria, Illinois-based
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the largest maker of construction and mining
equipment, yesterday reported revenue sank 6.8 percent, matching
the average estimate, as machinery dealers cut orders.  Caterpillar Forecasts  “The second half of 2012 really sputtered,” Caterpillar
CEO Doug Oberhelman said in a Jan. 28 interview on Bloomberg
Television. “We had the fiscal cliff, the steady din of that,
we had the uncertainty of an election.”  Even so, Oberhelman said he is “pretty optimistic about
’13 around the world.”  The worldwide economy may grow at least 2.5 percent this
year, up from about 2.3 percent in 2012, Caterpillar projected.
The company sees U.S. economic growth of at least 2.5 percent,
helped by housing, and 8.5 percent expansion in China as its
government boosts credit growth and infrastructure spending.  In the U.S., economic growth shows signs of withstanding
political debates about federal deficits and spending. Orders
for  durable goods  rose in December for an unprecedented fourth
straight month, indicating manufacturing will improve in 2013, a
Commerce Department report showed Jan. 28.  “Broad-Based Gain”  “We see just basically broad-based gain,” John Herrmann,
president of Herrmann Forecasting LLC in Summit, New Jersey,
said in an interview yesterday on Bloomberg Radio’s “ Bloomberg
Surveillance .” “This is just a solid report. We are seeing
more risk taking by businesses and by investors.”  Businesses don’t yet know whether lawmakers will avert
across-the-board government spending cuts scheduled to begin
March 1, even after the fiscal pact passed by Congress on Jan. 1
avoided sweeping tax increases that had threatened to crimp
consumer spending.  “Our visibility to forecast the coming couple of months is
extremely limited,” Erik Gershwind, CEO of MSC Industrial
Direct Co., told analysts earlier this month. Fiscal first-
quarter revenue for the Melville, New York-based company missed
analysts’ estimates, as did its profit forecast for the second
quarter, after customers restrained orders, he said.  For now, Caterpillar’s CEO said 2013 is shaping up for
improved performance worldwide.  “China certainly is stronger today,” Oberhelman told
Bloomberg Television. “Latin America looks pretty good. Boy,
the drumbeat out of Europe is sure behind us. All the bad news
is out, at least for a while.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  