-- Philippine Peso Snaps 4-Day Slide Before GDP Report; Bonds Gain
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-01-29T03:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/philippine-peso-snaps-4-day-slide-before-gdp-report-bonds-gain.html
The Philippine peso rose, halting a
four-day slide before an official report this week forecast to
economic growth accelerated in 2012, bolstering the case for a
credit-rating upgrade. Government bonds advanced.  The currency rebounded from its biggest loss in four months
after the central bank said it will smooth exchange-rate swings.
The Southeast Asian economy grew 6.4 percent last year versus
3.9 percent in 2011, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey before data due Jan. 31. The nation will
probably win an investment-grade rating in the first half,
central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said Jan. 26.  “The peso is driven by fundamentals, especially from
remittances, market inflows and the potential for credit-rating
upgrades,” said Reuben Mark Angeles, head of research at First
Metro Securities Brokerage Corp. in  Manila . “Intervention
possibility is there, but we think any weakness is a buying
opportunity.”  The peso rose 0.3 percent 40.795 per dollar as of 11:17
a.m. in Manila, according to data from Tullett Prebon Plc. The
currency has appreciated 0.6 percent this year and could surpass
40 per dollar by year-end, Angeles said.  The currency will likely end the year at 41 to 42 as Bangko
Sentral ng Pilipinas will probably temper gains to ensure
economic growth is sustained, Bank of the Philippine Islands
economist Emilio Neri said in an e-mailed note yesterday.  Rating Outlook  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
exchange-rate swings used to price options, was little changed
at 4.5 percent, the highest level this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Southeast Asian has the highest junk rating at Moody’s
Investors Service, Fitch Ratings and Standard & Poor’s. S&P,
which raised the outlook on the country’s debt to positive last
month, said an upgrade is possible this year, citing improved
governance and public finances.  Moody’s upgraded the country one level to Ba1 on October,
saying the economy was poised to record faster growth, lower
inflation, and exchange-rate appreciation. S&P raised it one
step to BB+ in July.  “The sentiment remains bullish on the peso given
expectations of sustained growth momentum and credit-rating
upgrades,” said Alan Cayetano, head of foreign-exchange trading
at  Bank of the Philippine Islands (BPI)  in Manila, the nation’s
biggest lender by market value.  The yield on the 4.75 percent bonds due September 2022
dropped five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.05
percent, according to Tradition Financial Services. The yield
has declined 25 basis points this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  