-- Pimco to DoubleLine Leveraging as Yields Retreat: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-01-29T17:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/pimco-to-doubleline-leveraging-as-yields-retreat-credit-markets.html
Junk-bond yields have fallen so far
that the world’s biggest debt investors are turning to borrowed
money to juice returns, a practice that magnified losses during
the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Bill Gross ’s Pacific Investment Management Co. said it
plans to sell as much as $3.3 billion of shares for its Pimco
Dynamic Credit Income Fund, poised to become the largest taxable
income closed-end fund. DoubleLine Capital LP is starting its
Income Solutions Fund that may invest an unlimited amount of its
assets in speculative-grade debt, according to a Jan. 15 filing.  Leverage is staging a comeback for investors that oversee
more than $2 trillion as speculative-grade yields reach record
lows daily with the  Federal Reserve  holding benchmark interest
rates at about zero percent for a fifth year.  Blackstone Group
LP (BX) ’s debt investment arm obtained a $425 million line of credit
last month for its Strategic Credit Fund, which started trading
in September as part of the biggest wave of initial public
offerings for closed-end funds since 2007.  “Everybody’s looking for income,” said Sangeeta Marfatia,
a strategist at UBS Securities LLC in  New York . Closed-end funds
“can go out and borrow really cheap and yet they’re able to
invest at much higher rates.”  Record Inflows  Pimco’s new fund, which started trading today, may borrow
as much as 42 percent of net assets, according to a Jan. 25
filing from the  Newport Beach , California-based manager of the
world’s largest bond fund. Initial public offerings of closed-
end funds, which trade on exchanges and seek to boost gains
using leverage, reached $11.6 billion last year, almost double
the $5.9 billion in 2011, according to Thomas J. Herzfeld
Advisors Inc. More than half of the new funds focused on credit
investments.  Investors clamoring for greater returns deposited an
unprecedented $72.4 billion last year into funds that own
speculative-grade debt, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s , according to
data from EPFR Global in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  While junk yields in the U.S. have plunged to 6.41 percent,
bond buyers are still pouring cash into the notes as they
speculate that the  U.S. economy  has “more upside than downside
risk” in a low-rate environment, JPMorgan Chase & Co. credit
strategists led by  Peter Acciavatti  in New York wrote in a Jan.
25 note.  Borrowed money invested in mortgage bonds accelerated
losses during the credit crisis by forcing sales by holders as
margin calls arose, boosting supply and sending prices lower.  Canadian Banks  “I don’t think you get a repeat of 2008 because the
leverage in the system isn’t anything close,”  Jeffrey Gundlach ,
chief executive officer of Los Angeles-based DoubleLine, with
about $53 billion in assets, said last month in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “You would need the leverage in the
system to go up more, and maybe it will.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. rose. The Markit CDX
North American Investment Grade Index, a credit-default swaps
benchmark used to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, increased 0.9 basis point to a mid-price of
86.7 basis points as of 12:20 p.m. in New York, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate  swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, decreased 0.61 basis point to 16.01 basis
points as of 12:21 p.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when
investors favor assets such as company debentures and widens
when they seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of Morgan Stanley are the most active dollar-
denominated corporate securities today, accounting for 3.42
percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1 million or more as
of 12:17 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Pimco’s Dynamic Credit Income Fund intends to borrow money
“as soon as reasonably practicable following the completion of
the initial public offering,” according to the Jan. 25
prospectus. It may invest in a range of fixed-income securities,
from corporate debt and mortgage-backed securities to government
and municipal bonds.  Fund Outperforms  If the new fund succeeds at raising the full $3.3 billion,
it will become the biggest taxable-income closed-end fund,
according to data from Morningstar Inc. It will be the largest
closed-end fund IPO since the Eaton Vance Tax-Managed Global
Diversified Equity Income Fund, which raised $6.03 billion in
February 2007, according to Ipreo, a New York-based provider of
market data.  Pimco’s $1.36 billion  Dynamic Income Fund (PDI) , its closed-end
fund that started last year, has returned 29 percent including
reinvested dividends since its inception on May 24, compared
with 12.5 percent for the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
High Yield index.  DoubleLine’s Income Solutions Fund “may invest in debt
securities and other income-producing investments of any kind,”
including an unlimited amount of securities rated below
investment grade, according to a Jan. 15 filing. It also intends
to borrow money through reverse-repurchases agreements, dollar-
roll transactions, loans or lines of credit.  Mark Porterfield , a Pimco spokesman, and Loren Fleckenstein, of DoubleLine declined to comment on the new
closed-end funds.  Income Search  “Many investors are searching for income, they’re looking
at closed-end funds as a good way to receive a more attractive
yield,” said  Cecilia Gondor , executive vice president at Miami-
based Thomas J. Herzfeld Advisors Inc. “Closed-end funds tend
to use more leverage than open-end funds because they don’t have
to worry about cash inflows and outflows.”  Unlike with mutual funds, money for closed-end funds is
raised through an IPO. The number of shares outstanding is then
fixed, with investors buying and selling units of the fund on
the stock exchange.  Blackstone’s GSO Strategic Credit Fund obtained a  credit
line  with up to $425 million available, according to a Dec. 21
release, making its potential total size $1.28 billion based on
current net asset value.  KKR Fund  KKR & Co. filed last year to create the Alternative
Corporate Opportunities Fund, which has a closed-end structure
and will invest in “special situations, direct lending and
mezzanine finance,” co-chairman  Henry Kravis  said in a Dec. 4
presentation.  The Fed has held its benchmark interest rate between zero
and 0.25 percent since December 2008, seeking to ignite an
economy wounded by $2.1 trillion in global writedowns and credit
losses from the financial crisis that began in 2007.  While the U.S.  unemployment  rate has declined to 7.8
percent from 10 percent at its 2009 peak, the average estimate
of 83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg is for growth this year
of 2 percent following 2.3 percent in 2012.  Prices on speculative-grade bonds have soared to an
unprecedented 105.9 cents on the dollar, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. Yields on the index fell to
6.41 percent as of Jan. 25 from last year’s high of 8.46 percent
last Jan. 3.  Closed-end funds have been able to take advantage of the
record-low borrowing costs to increase returns, even as yields
plunge, attracting individuals who rely on interest to pay
monthly bills, said UBS’s Marfatia.  “A lot of the closed-end funds pay monthly dividends,”
Marfatia said. “It’s all about income.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  