-- Pop Art Pioneer Mixes Broken Glass, Bus Tickets at Tate
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2013-01-29T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/pop-art-pioneer-mixes-broken-glass-bus-tickets-at-tate.html
This is a rubbish exhibition.  Let me put that another way. “Schwitters in Britain” at
 Tate Britain  is all about garbage: art made out of detritus,
litter, old bus tickets, broken bits of glass and other
unconsidered trifles.  Kurt Schwitters was to trash what Monet was to water
lilies. It was his trademark, the article with which he will
always be associated.  That doesn’t necessarily make it good, or bad. In fact this
exhibition is over-large, somewhat monotonous and doesn’t
contain anything that would qualify as a great work. It is
nonetheless interesting, in part because it presents an
overlooked artist.  Schwitters (1882-1948), a German from Hanover, is generally
classified as a Dadaist. That ignores the fact that as one of
life’s non-joiners, he was shunned by the Berlin Dada movement
for being too respectable. He spent his first two decades living
in the Schwitters family apartment in Hannover, which he
converted into a sort of modernist grotto full of jagged planes
and found objects. He called this the Merzbau.  Schwitters’s breakthrough, shortly after World War I, was
to use the thrown-away junk of urban society as the source
material for abstract collages. He named his own brand of art
“Merz,” from a stray symbol on a piece of paper he found that
once had read, “Commerz und Privatbank.”  British Career  So Schwitters really belongs to the story of German avant-
garde art. Still, he spent a significant proportion of his
artistic career -- eight years -- in Britain. That’s nearly as
long as  Van Dyck  clocked up, not that poor Schwitters was given
anything like the welcome Sir Anthony enjoyed.  He arrived in 1939 from Norway, where he had previously
fled from the Nazi crackdown on “degenerate art,” and was
promptly interned in a series of camps for enemy aliens. When he
emerged, Schwitters sold little and received little attention.  He eventually moved to the Lake District where he died
prematurely, short of money. While his figurative paintings won
prizes at a flower show, he was hardly a Cumbrian celebrity.  His collage compositions derived from the splintered
geometry of cubism. The ingredients have a romantic quality that
comes from the discarded and neglected. The trouble is that
although individually they have can be quirkily poignant, in
bulk they are repetitive. And there are a lot of them in the
Tate show.  Snowy Fjord  More of a surprise is the quantity of figurative painting.
Towards the end of his life, Schwitters turned to portraiture as
a way of making money. Even before that, he obviously felt an
urge to return to oils and canvas, depicting for example, a
snowy fjord in  Norway .  His paintings are a bit like his collages: There are lots
of them, and none stands out. The idiom is reminiscent of brushy
post-romantic naturalism of later Oskar Kokoschka. Schwitters
was not as good at it.  The tantalizing thing is that Schwitters may have made some
masterpieces, though they have -- almost -- disappeared. These
were the Merzbau and its successors. The first was destroyed by
bombing in the War, then he began another in Norway -- which has
since disappeared -- and a third in the Lake District.  The last of these, set in a rural building, he called a
“Merzbarn.” Sadly Schwitters died before he had completed more
than one wall of this strange exercise in rustic Dada. This
still exists, but is not in the exhibition -- presumably because
it cannot travel. There are some projected images, though they
are no substitute for the missing magnum opus.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market 
and  Craig Seligman  on books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in  London  at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 