-- Poultry Causes Most U.S. Food-Related Deaths, Study Finds
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-01-29T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/poultry-causes-most-u-s-food-related-deaths-study-finds.html
Chicken, turkey and other poultry
meat are responsible for more food-related deaths than any other
items, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said.  Poultry caused about 19 percent of foodborne fatalities in
the 10-year period through 2008, the CDC said today in a study
that marks the first time the Atlanta-based agency has estimated
how many illnesses may be attributed to specific foods. Dairy
accounted for 10 percent of deaths and vine-stalk vegetables
such as peppers were responsible for 7 percent.  While fatalities are more common with meat, leaf vegetables
such as spinach caused more illnesses than any other product and
the second-most hospitalizations after dairy. Large outbreaks
during the period studied include E.coli traced to spinach and
lettuce, and salmonella in tomatoes and peppers. The CDC said
the findings show a need to focus more on preventing
contamination of produce and poultry.  “Food regulators and industry have to make decisions about
where to put their resources,” Patricia Griffin, chief of the
CDC’s enteric diseases epidemiology branch, said in an
interview. “A lot of times you never know what food makes you
sick.”  The study, published in the agency’s  Emerging Infectious
Diseases  journal, looked at outbreaks from 1998 to 2008 that
caused deaths, hospitalizations and illnesses after consumers
ate 17 common food products. Contaminated food causes an
estimated 48 million illnesses each year, with only about 9.6
million of those traced to known major pathogens lurking in
food. The study examined a subset of known-pathogen illness.  Deli Meat  Of the 277 deaths from poultry, most came from listeria or
salmonella, two bacteria that cause diarrhea and other symptoms.
Pregnant women, babies, and the elderly are among those at
increased risk. Listeria can be more deadly than some other
types of contaminants, Griffin said.  The number of deaths from poultry is partly tied to three
outbreaks from delicatessen turkey meat tainted during
processing after the product was cooked, according to the
report. That may also have skewed the data to indicating poultry
is more risky, Griffin said.  “The data suggest deli meat is a lot safer today,” she
said.  Illnesses from produce were largely driven by norovirus,
which is highly contagious and causes diarrhea, vomiting and
stomach pain. Norovirus caused 1,419 outbreaks, which was the
most of all pathogens, the study said. It can get into food when
preparers don’t wash their hands, according to the CDC.  Hygiene Issue  “Many leaf green outbreaks are caused by norovirus, and it
can only be people, not animals, so it could be from not washing
their hands,” Griffin said.  Dairy caused the most hospitalizations at 16 percent, and
botched pasteurization and contamination after pasteurization
were potential causes. Dairy may be a more frequent cause of
illness because of a high number of outbreaks from consumers who
drink raw milk, according to the report.  “Because of the large volume of dairy products consumed,
even infrequent contamination of commercial distributed products
may result in many illnesses,” the authors said in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  