-- Power Rangers Mogul Buyout No Boon to Partner: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-01-29T15:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/power-rangers-mogul-buyout-no-boon-to-partner-israel-overnight.html
Partner Communications Co. (PTNR)  sank the
most in six weeks in  New York  on concern billionaire Haim Saban’s buyout of the Israeli mobile phone company won’t infuse
enough cash to fend off competition from smaller providers.  American depositary receipts of Partner,  Israel ’s largest
mobile company, tumbled 4.3 percent yesterday, while  Cellcom
Israel Ltd. (CEL) , the largest provider, dropped to the lowest level
since September.  Saban Capital Group Inc., owner of the children’s Power
Rangers franchise, will complete its acquisition of a 30.73
percent stake in Partner from Scailex Corp. today, according to
Moshe Debby, a spokesman for Saban in Israel. Partner Chief
Executive Officer Haim Romano will remain in his role, Debby
said by phone from  Tel Aviv .  Partner and Cellcom are struggling to win customers as new
entrants Golan Telecom Ltd. and Hot Telecommunication System
Ltd. offer packages valued as low as 9.99 shekels ($2.68) per
month to attract users and meet the government’s target of
capturing 7 percent of the market.  “The ownership change for Partner may be good in the
future, but it will be very difficult for them to fight against
market forces in the near term,” Sabina Podval, an analyst at
 Leader Capital Markets Ltd. (LDRC)  who has the equivalent of a neutral
rating on Partner and Cellcom, said by phone yesterday from Tel
Aviv. “Hot and Golan can be expected to be very aggressive in
the coming months as they try to achieve as much of a customer
base as possible.”  Super Bowl Ad  The Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index of the biggest New
York-traded Israeli companies lost 0.9 percent to 85.38
yesterday.  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA)  retreated as the maker
of home soda machines said  CBS Corp. (CBS)  rejected the initial
commercial that it wanted to screen during Feb. 3’s Super Bowl.  Partner, based in Rosh Ha’Ayin, Israel, fell to $5.52 in
New York yesterday, the lowest level since Dec. 18. The
company’s shares in Tel Aviv lost 0.5 percent today 20.44
shekels, or $5.48. Partner’s U.S. stock sank 32 percent last
year, the  second-worst performance  after Cellcom in the Israel-
US gauge.  Netanya, Israel-based Cellcom lost the most in a month in
the U.S. yesterday, dropping 4.4 percent to $7.36. The shares
fell for an eighth trading day in Tel Aviv, slipping 2.5 percent
to 27.34 shekels, or $7.33. Israel’s TA-25 Index lost 0.9
percent to 1,186.50.  Saban -- who previously owned  Bezeq Israeli
Telecommunication Corp. (BEZQ) , the nation’s dominant land-line
operator -- agreed to pay 250 million shekels ($66.6 million) in
cash and assume a $300 million debt that Scailex owes to  Hong
Kong ’s  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  Hutchison abandoned plans in
August to become a Partner stakeholder. Saban purchased
additional shares from Leumi Partners.  Price Competition  Partner, which lowered its service prices to compete with
Golan and Hot, is expected to explore ways to cut costs and
boost profitability, Leader Capital’s Podval said.  Hot, which also sells high-speed Internet and cable-TV
services, began an offer this month for unlimited mobile
telephone at 9.99 shekels for the first four months before the
price increases to 99 shekels, according to its  website . Golan
has a similar deal for 49 shekels, which then converts to 99
shekels per month, the company said on its website.  “Investors are skeptical about Partner for the short term
because if they were to lower their prices as much as Hot and
Golan, they would simply be losing money,” Podval said.  Sales Drop  Partner will report a 20 percent decline in 2012 sales,
according to the  mean  of four analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The company is scheduled to publish its year-end
earnings results Feb. 21. Cellcom is  expected  to show an 8.9
percent decline in revenue for 2012, according to the average of
eight analysts’ predictions.  Asaf Eshel, a spokesman for Partner, didn’t reply to an e-
mail and phone calls requesting comment on competition from Hot
and Golan.  SodaStream fell the most in three weeks, dropping 4.3
percent to $50.96 in New York.  “We had submitted an ad that we preferred to show, but it
was not approved, perhaps due to it being too provocative
regarding the bottled-soda industry,” Yonah Lloyd, the
company’s executive director of corporate development, said
yesterday in a statement sent by e-mail. “The ad that we will
show at the game is a refreshed take on the ad that was banned
recently in the U.K.”  The U.K. regulator Clearcast banned in November a
SodaStream television commercial showing crates of bottled
beverages exploding.  CBS Commercial  SodaStream, which is expected to report $425 million in
sales in 2012, is buying one of CBS’s 30-second Super Bowl
commercials, some of which cost more than $4 million, CBS Chief
Executive Officer Les Moonves said at a Nov. 7 news conference.  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  fell for a third day, dropping
3.5 percent to $48.36  in U.S. trading. The maker of technology
used to transfer and store data forecast on Jan. 23 first-
quarter sales that missed analysts’ estimates.  Shares of Mellanox traded in Tel Aviv lost 3.9 percent to
179.20 shekels, or $48.01. Daily Globes  said  yesterday that
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  may have raised its stake in Mellanox following
last week’s decline.  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for Oracle
in New York, declined to comment on the report.  Rate Cut  The  Bank of Israel  left its benchmark interest rate
unchanged yesterday following a surprise cut last month that
brought the rate to the lowest level in more than two years.
Governor  Stanley Fischer  will step down June 30, in the middle
of his second term, the bank said in an e-mailed statement
today.  Israel issued 30-year dollar-denominated bonds abroad for
the first time in 15 years as the government seeks to take
advantage of sliding borrowing costs amid near-zero benchmark
interest rates in the U.S. and Europe  The country, which also issued 10-year debt, raised $2
billion, the  Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement
today. This is the first time two maturities were issued
together, and they were sold at the lowest ever rates for
dollar-denominated notes, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  