-- Praet Says Forward Guidance on ECB Rates Wouldn't Work
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-01-29T12:55:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/praet-says-forward-guidance-on-ecb-rates-wouldn-t-work.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Peter Praet said entering into a Federal Reserve-
style commitment to keep interest rates low for longer wouldn’t
work in the euro area.  “Engaging in promises regarding the future monetary-policy
stance would not be the most effective instrument” in a highly-
fragmented currency region, Praet said in a speech in Copenhagen
today.  Such a commitment is “in principle applicable” when
broad-based economic stimulus is needed in regions with “more
or less homogeneous” financing conditions, he said. “Despite
the notable improvements recently, this by and large is not the
situation we are facing in the euro area.”  With interest rates at a record low of 0.75 percent,
unlimited liquidity provision to the region’s banks and a
commitment to buy bonds of distressed nations, the ECB is
getting closer to the limits of its toolbox. That’s left
economists pondering new measures it could apply if the economy,
which is battling its second recession in four years, doesn’t
gather pace in the coming months.
In the U.S., the Federal Open Market Committee said last month
it will keep interest rates near zero as long as the jobless
rate is above 6.5 percent and inflation is forecast to be 2.5
percent or less. Previously policy makers said they would keep
rates low through at least mid-2015.  Higher Inflation  Economists including Olivier Blanchard of the International
Monetary Fund floated higher inflation targets as one option to
stimulate growth as early as 2010.  Lifting the limit for inflation in the 17-nation region is
not an option for the ECB, Praet said.  “It may not surprise you to hear that I am very skeptical
about this proposal,” he said. Changing the inflation target
“on tactical grounds would be opportunistic and would harm the
credibility of the central bank.”  A loss of credibility could propel inflation expectations,
which “would require a disproportionate withdrawal of monetary
policy accommodation in the future to reign in inflation,”
Praet said. “Any initial boost to economic activity will
therefore ultimately be more than reversed. Additional and
unnecessary volatility in real activity would be the price to
pay.”  Gradual Recovery  The euro area succumbed to recession in the third quarter
as governments from  Greece  to Spain cut spending to rein in
excessive deficits. ECB President Mario Draghi said on Jan. 10
that economic weakness is expected to continue.  The ECB lowered its forecasts in December and predicts the
economy will shrink 0.3 percent in 2013, with a “gradual
recovery” later in the year.  The economic environment remains “challenging,” Praet
said. “The arsenal of the ECB’s instruments for monetary policy
implementation continues to be able to” ease funding conditions
“when this is deemed necessary.”  While unlimited allotment in refinancing operations with a
maturity of as long as three years “has proven to be very
powerful,” it isn’t “free of pitfalls,” Praet said. Long-term
lending expanded the ECB’s balance sheet to more than 3 trillion
euros and increased the share of banks’ assets that are pledged
as collateral and unavailable for other operations, he said.  That’s why the ECB allows banks to repay emergency three-
year loans early, Praet said.  Early Repayment  “We will exert vigilance to ensure that –- notwithstanding
the legitimate decisions of individual banks to reduce their
liabilities to the central bank -– the overall liquidity
conditions prevailing in the money market will remain consistent
with the degree of accommodation that the current outlook for
prices and real activity warrant,” Praet said.  Some 278 financial institutions will return 137.2 billion
euros tomorrow, the first opportunity to return the funds, the
ECB said last week. The ECB flooded financial markets with more
than 1 trillion euros of three-year loans in late 2011 and early
2012.  “I am convinced that our existing monetary policy
framework provides enough scope for instruments to continue
addressing the crisis in a decisive and effective way,” Praet
said. “We remain attentive to possible shortcomings in our
policy framework and to changes in the structure of the economy
that would warrant revisiting aspects of this framework. At
present, however, I see no compelling case for change.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  