-- Private Equity Firm Jacana Plans Africa Expansion With New Fund
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-01-29T12:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/private-equity-firm-jacana-plans-africa-expansion-with-new-fund.html
Jacana Partners, a private-equity
company with $43 million under management, agreed to merge with
Kenya-based InReturn Capital and raise a new fund to invest in
small and mid-sized businesses in Africa.  Jacana, based in  London , is hoping to raise as much as $75
million for the fund from mostly development finance
institutions and invest about $1 million to $5 million in each
target company, Simon Merchant, chief executive officer of
Jacana, said in an interview today in Nairobi,  Kenya ’s capital.
The group plans to eventually attract a wider range of investors
including pension funds and wealthy individuals in the U.S. and
 Europe  over the next five to 10 years, he said.  The emergence of small and mid-sized companies is essential
for the creation of jobs for Africa’s expanding population and
can provide a basis for stronger economic growth, Merchant said.
The fund could support domestic suppliers of consumer goods
looking to tap into the continent’s burgeoning middle class that
has money to spend, he said.  The planned fund will target businesses operating in at
least eight African nations, including possibly Ethiopia and
Nigeria, according to a statement handed to reporters.  Jacana and InReturn, which have worked together since 2010,
plan to complete the merger by April under the name Jacana, an
indigenous African wader bird.  Jacana has two existing funds in West  Africa  and one in
East Africa, which it runs with InReturn, Merchant said.
InReturn, which has offices in Nairobi and Tanzanian capital Dar
es Salaam, was founded in 2007 by Dutch entrepreneurs Bart Meijs
and Steven Otto, according to a statement handed to reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  