-- Tradition Agrees to Pay $250,000 to Settle Bond-Rig Suit
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-01-29T20:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/tradition-agrees-to-pay-250-000-to-settle-bond-rig-suit-1-.html
Tradition (North America) Inc. , a
unit of Paris-based broker  Viel & Cie. (VIL) , agreed to settle
allegations that it rigged bids for municipal bond reinvestment
deals, according to officials in  Massachusetts .  In a civil settlement, the broker agreed to pay $250,000 as
well as submit to a probe of whether the firm owes any
additional money, according to the state attorney general’s
office.  The state alleged that Tradition, which conducted bidding
processes among financial institutions for reinvestment deals,
allowed certain companies to win the business at below-market
rates. Tradition worked for the state between 2000 and 2004 and
was supposed to get the highest  interest rates  from banks on
investments of municipal bond proceeds, according to the
attorney general’s office.  “State entities deserve restitution for any harm suffered,
and we intend to make sure they get it,” Massachusetts Attorney
General  Martha Coakley  said today in a statement. “We will work
hard to prevent this kind of activity from happening again.”  Representatives for Tradition in New York and Paris didn’t
immediately respond to requests for comment.  Favored Firms  Massachusetts’s lawsuit, filed in Suffolk Superior Court in
 Boston  in 2010, alleged that Tradition told favored firms what
other banks were bidding and also told banks what to bid to win
the business. After the bidding, Tradition signed false
statements certifying that the bids were competitive and that
the winning bid offered the highest interest rate, according to
the state.  The case involved guaranteed investment contracts, known as
GICs, which municipalities buy with money raised by selling
bonds. The investments let them earn a return on the cash until
the funds are needed for schools, roads and other public works.  The case is Commonwealth of Massachusetts v. Tradition
Inc., 2010-04378, Massachusetts Superior Court (Suffolk County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in  Brooklyn  at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 