-- Ralls Sues to Void U.S. Wind-Farm Purchase Obama Blocked
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-01-30T01:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/ralls-sues-to-void-u-s-wind-farm-purchase-obama-blocked.html
Ralls Corp., the Chinese-owned
company blocked on national security grounds from operating wind
turbines near a U.S. Navy base in  Oregon , asked a judge to void
its agreement to buy assets for the project.  President  Barack Obama ’s order blocking development of the
wind project nullifies Ralls’s acquisition of the project’s
property from Terna Energy Holding USA Corp., Ralls said in a
complaint filed yesterday in federal court in Washington against
a Delaware-incorporated unit of  Terna Energy SA (TENERGY) , a Greek energy
company.  “Until and unless the court concludes the president’s
order is unlawful, the president’s order renders the Ralls-Terna
transaction void,” according to the filing.  Ralls, in a separate action, is suing Obama and other U.S.
government officials, challenging the president’s authority to
block the deal.  In its complaint against Terna, Ralls said it agreed to pay
$6 million for the wind project assets, including $4.2 million
on the earlier of Dec. 21, 2012, or the date on which 36
megawatts of power from the windfarms was commissioned.  The Oregon project hasn’t produced any power, Tim Xia, an
attorney for Ralls, said in a phone interview.  Default  Terna on Dec. 24 notified Ralls that it was in default for
failing to make the $4.2 million payment, according to the Ralls
lawsuit against Terna. Terna subsequently notified Ralls that on
Feb. 7, it would sell membership interest in Ralls Wind Farm
LLC, which had been pledged as collateral in the Oregon
acquisition by Ralls Corp., according to the complaint.  Ralls Wind Farm LLC, which has five  wind turbines  in
operation in Ralls,  Texas , is Ralls Corp.’s only operating
asset, according to its court filings.  Robert Weigel, an attorney for Terna, declined to comment
on the lawsuit.  Ralls is asking U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson to
declare the Ralls-Terna transaction invalid and block Terna from
selling collateral because of Obama’s order. The Ralls lawsuit
challenging Obama’s power to block the Oregon wind project also
is before Jackson.  “We want to preserve the status quo, so that Judge Jackson
can complete her review of our constitutional challenge to
President Obama’s order,” Xia said.  Obama on Sept. 28 blocked Ralls from developing the wind
farm sites and ordered it to divest all of its interests in the
project, which is near a U.S. Navy base, citing national
security risks.  Project Blocked  His action made permanent an interim order by the
government’s Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S., or
CFIUS, which reviews acquisitions of domestic companies by non-
U.S. entities.  In court papers filed today in the case against it, Terna
asked Jackson to dismiss the complaint, arguing that she doesn’t
have jurisdiction because Terna doesn’t do business in
 Washington . Also, at the time of the transaction, Ralls didn’t
make the wind farm acquisition contingent on passing government
review, Terna said.  “Plaintiff Ralls at no time sought CFIUS approval for its
purchase of the Oregon Wind Farms or negotiated for a closing
condition providing that the purchaser will not be required to
complete the transaction if it does not obtain CFIUS approval in
advance of the closing date,” Terna said in the filing.  Ralls is owned by executives of China-based Sany Group Co.,
which was seeking to place Sany-made wind turbines at the Oregon
installations.  The case against Terna is Ralls Corp. v. Terna Energy USA
Holding Corp., 13-cv-117; the case against the U.S. government
is Ralls Corp. v. Committee on Foreign Investment in the  United
States , 12-cv-01513, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  