-- Rand Rebounds From Four-Year Low on Signal Decline Overdone
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-01-29T14:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/rand-rebounds-from-four-year-low-on-signal-decline-overdone.html
The rand rebounded from its weakest
level in almost four years against the dollar as investors bet
the retreat, the worst among emerging-market currencies this
year, had gone too far.  South Africa ’s currency advanced 0.5 percent to 9.0597 a
dollar as of 3:24 p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on benchmark 10.5
percent bonds due December 2026 dropped one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 7.47 percent after climbing nine basis
points yesterday to the highest since Dec. 5.  The rand slumped as much as 2.4 percent yesterday to 9.1604
per dollar, its weakest level since April 2009, as foreign
investors reduced holdings of South African assets on concern
labor unrest and mining production cuts will weigh on economic
growth and the nation’s current-account deficit. The
depreciation may have been too steep, technical indicators
signaled today.  “The move yesterday was perhaps a little dramatic and a
touch overdone,”  George Glynos , a Johannesburg-based analyst at
ETM Analytics, said in e-mailed comments. “With the rand such a
massive underperformer amongst emerging-market currencies, one
feels there is perhaps scope for a recovery.”  A stochastic oscillator for the rand versus the dollar was
at 8.7 today, below the 30 threshold that signals the currency
may have depreciated too quickly and is poised for a rebound.
The measure, which tracks the price of a currency relative to
its highs and lows during a particular period, has been below 30
for the past 11 days.  Bond Sales  Foreign investors were net sellers of 1.2 billion rand ($133
million) of South African bonds yesterday, paring net purchases
this month to 1.3 billion rand, according to JSE Ltd. data.  Most major emerging-market currencies declined yesterday
after U.S. durable-goods orders rose more than economists’
expectations in December, fueling speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will be able to end its monetary stimulus earlier than
anticipated.  “Global markets have stabilised after some overnight
volatility,”  John Cairns , a currency strategist at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments.
“Exporters will be looking to take advantage of these
attractive levels.”  South Africa’s Treasury sold 2.1 billion rand of bonds
maturing in 2026, 2031 and 2036 at its weekly auction today,
with investors bidding for 3.2 times the amount on offer,
according to Reserve Bank data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  