-- RBS Drops as U.S. Authorities Said to Ask for Libor Plea
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-01-29T17:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/rbs-said-to-cut-bonuses-to-393-million-as-libor-fine-looms-2-.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
fell the most in four months as U.S. authorities push for
criminal charges in the probe into allegations that Britain’s
biggest publicly owned lender tried to rig interest rates.  The U.S. Justice Department has extended talks to press the
Edinburgh-based bank for a guilty plea in any settlement, said
two people familiar with the negotiations. RBS may pay about 500
million pounds ($786 million) to U.S. and U.K. authorities to
settle the claims as soon as next week, another two people with
knowledge of the negotiations said.  “This opens up a huge can of worms for RBS,” said  Simon Maughan , a financial services industry strategist at Olivetree
Securities Ltd. in  London . If RBS admits criminal liability,
“you’re going to get all sorts of people building up class
action lawsuits against them. That could prove very costly.”  The shares declined 6 percent, the biggest drop since June
28, and closed at 345.80 pence in London.  The fine would be the second-largest levied by regulators
in their investigation into allegations traders at the world’s
biggest lenders manipulated submissions used to set the London
interbank offered rate. UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest lender,
paid a $1.5 billion fine in December and its Japanese unit
pleaded guilty to one count of wire fraud in the U.S. in its
December settlement.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined 290 million pounds
in June and accepted no criminal liability.  Litigation Vulnerability  The RBS talks, which were close to completion earlier this
month, have been prolonged as the Justice Department, bolstered
by the guilty plea it secured from UBS’s Japanese unit, pressed
RBS to plead guilty to the criminal charges as well, the people
said. The Scottish bank has so far resisted on concern it could
increase its vulnerability to litigation and lead clients to
curtail business, according to the Wall Street Journal, which
reported the talks earlier.  “Discussions with various authorities in relation to
Libor-setting are ongoing,” Michael Strachan, a spokesman for
RBS, said. “We continue to cooperate fully with their
investigations.” He declined to comment further on the talks
with the Justice Department. Rebekah Carmichael, spokeswoman for
the Justice Department, declined to comment on the negotiations.  RBS may reduce the bonus pool at its investment bank by
more than a third following the allegations of wrongdoing, a
person with knowledge of the plan said today.  Bonuses Cut  The lender is poised to set aside about 250 million pounds
for  bonuses  at the  division , compared with 390 million pounds
for 2011, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because a final decision is yet to be taken. RBS plans to recoup
between 100 million pounds and 150 million pounds from the bonus
pool to offset the fine, people familiar with the matter said
last month. The Financial Times reported the cut earlier today.  RBS will also claw back bonuses from those involved in the
alleged manipulation of Libor as well as their superiors, up to
and including the head of investment bank, John Hourican, the
people said. He is expected to resign because he had
responsibility for the parts of the  company  where the alleged
wrongdoing occurred, even though he didn’t have direct knowledge
of the behavior, the people said.  Libor is calculated by a poll carried out daily on behalf
of the British Bankers’ Association that asks firms to estimate
how much it would cost to borrow from each other for different
periods and in different currencies. The top and bottom
quartiles of quotes are excluded, and those left are averaged
and published for individual currencies before noon in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  