-- Record Profit Eludes Big Oil as Costs Outpace Brent Gain
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-01-29T16:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/record-profit-eludes-big-oil-as-costs-outpace-brent-gain.html
The world’s biggest  oil companies 
are failing to convert the highest Brent crude prices ever into
record profits as production costs climb and U.S. natural gas
prices languish.  The London-traded benchmark for two-thirds of the world
averaged $111.68 a barrel in 2012, up 0.7 percent from a then-
record in 2011 and more than double the price in 2006. At the
same time, oil and gas producers have lagged behind other
industries in stock markets as profit growth failed to keep up.
The  MSCI World Oil & Gas Index (MXWO0EN)  lost 0.5 percent last year,
compared with the broader World Index that has risen 13 percent.  “Even though Brent prices are up, so are the costs of
producing that crude, and gas is a big drag,” said  Jason Gammel , an analyst at Macquarie Capital Europe Ltd. in London.
“That has negative effects on profitability.”  Slipping output, a slump in U.S. fossil-fuel prices and
more production from high-cost frontier regions such as ultra
deepwater fields off Brazil undercut returns.  Exxon Mobil Corp (XOM) ,
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  all will report
earnings for 2012 that are lower than highs reached since 2007,
according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Shell is the first to report, on Jan. 31. Adjusted annual
profit will climb 6 percent to $26.2 billion, helped by higher
output from gas projects in Qatar, according to the mean of 25
analyst estimates. Exxon and Chevron report the following day,
and BP publishes its earnings on Feb. 5.  Exxon, the world’s biggest company by market value, may say
that  adjusted annual earnings  fell 10 percent. BP’s annual
adjusted profit may have dropped 21 percent to $17.2 billion, a
survey of 24 analyst estimates shows.  Share Performance  Exxon shares rose 2.1 percent last year, followed by
Chevron which gained 1.6 percent. Shell retreated 11 percent,
while BP lost 7.8 percent. Shell has recovered 9 percent so far
this year, and BP has advanced 12 percent. Exxon and Chevron
have also gained at least 5 percent since Jan. 1.  The cost of building and operating facilities to pump oil
out of the ground rose to a record in the six months ending
Sept. 30, IHS reported last month. Deepwater drilling rigs are
becoming more expensive with rising labor and fuel costs, the
consultant said.  While  Brent crude  prices rose last year, the average cost
of New York-traded West Texas Intermediate retreated to $94.15 a
barrel from $95.11. U.S. natural gas prices declined to $2.83
per unit, the lowest since 1999.  The drop in gas prices comes as companies shift to produce
more of it. Shell, the world’s largest provider of liquefied
natural gas, had higher gas output than oil for the first time
last year.  Shell CEO  “High prices are not everywhere,” said Shell Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Voser  in an interview in Davos,
Switzerland, on Jan. 25. “We have got a mix of gas and oil.
 Henry Hub  went the other way,” he said, referring to the U.S.
benchmark price. “In America, you have the WTI effect and
Canadian prices are very low and that has affected our
profitability.”  Brent crude was little changed today at $133.97 a barrel.
WTI rose 1 percent to $97.40 in  New York .  Shell and Chevron are the only top five oil companies that
won’t see production declines in the fourth quarter, according
to Banco Santander SA analyst  Jason Kenney  in Edinburgh.  BP, Europe’s second-biggest oil company, has pared back its
global business as it sold assets in the wake of the 2010 Gulf
of Mexico oil spill. The company is close to its $38 billion
target for disposals and faces a trial for civil penalties from
the spill that is due to start Feb. 25 in New Orleans.  Russia Deal  BP in October swapped its holding in Russian venture TNK-
BP, responsible for about a quarter of its output, for a 20
percent stake in  OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  in a deal that has yet to complete.
BP’s shares remain about a third lower than before the Gulf
spill three years ago.  At Exxon, CEO Rex Tillerson has stepped up acquisitions and
 capital spending  to reverse the longest stretch of quarterly
production slides in 13 years.  Analysts expect Exxon’s 2012 profit to fall short of its
best year in 2008, when Brent crude prices ranged from $36 to a
record $147 and averaged $98.52 a barrel. Prices are holding up
in 2013, averaging $111 this month.  “ Oil prices  have been much stronger than we might have
thought so far this year,” said Iain Armstrong, an analyst at
Brewin Dolphin in London. “The important thing now is to get
your operations on stream.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  