-- Redhill Seeks Migraine, Oncology Partners After Nasdaq Listing
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-01-29T12:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/redhill-seeks-migraine-oncology-partners-after-nasdaq-listing.html
Redhill Biopharma Ltd. (RDHL)  is in talks
with potential partners to market its migraine and oncology
treatments as the company seeks to overcome regulatory hurdles,
Chief Executive Officer Dror Ben-Asher said.  The company plans to file for U.S. Food and Drug
Administration approval this year for its RHB-103 oral thin-film
for migraine and RHB-102 once-daily pill for the prevention of
nausea in cancer patients, said Ben-Asher.  “Investors want to see that we can achieve deals that will
start generating revenue and this is definitely something we are
working on now,” Ben-Asher, a Harvard University Fulbright
scholar, said in an interview at the company’s offices in Tel
Aviv. “We are hoping as the company progresses we can attract
more institutional investors as well.”  Redhill, which takes existing drugs and patents them under
improved formulations, listed in December on the Nasdaq.
Investors include Dan Suesskind, a Redhill board member who is
also former Chief Financial Officer at  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , and Hezi Bernholz, co-inventor of the cancer
drug Doxil. The company plans to  start a third-phase clinical
trial  this year for RHB-104, an antibiotics drug combination for
Crohn’s disease, with the goal of achieving long-term disease
remission.  Redhill in May said its migraine drug demonstrated
bioequivalence to Merck & Co.’s Maxalt-MLT, which in 2011 had
more than $600 million in sales. The company is betting patients
will find the drug more convenient because it can be consumed
without water, Ben-Asher said. In April, the company said its
once-daily controlled release for nausea in cancer patients
demonstrated bioequivalence to Ondansetron, marketed by
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  as Zofran.  “I like the business model which says we buy molecules
with practically no money, because we don’t have any money, and
in exchange we are willing to pay high royalties in the
future,” said Suesskind, a director on Teva’s board since
retiring as CFO in 2008. “They now have to make alignments with
bigger companies because the basic intention is not to market on
their own.”  Redhill, founded in 2009, gained 58 percent last year
compared with a 10 percent increase in the  Tel Aviv  Biomed Index
of 38 publicly traded biomedical companies. The company has a
market value of 247 million shekels ($66 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  