-- Rupiah Forwards Gain Most in Two Weeks on Central Bank Statement
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-01-29T08:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/rupiah-forwards-snap-four-day-loss-as-central-bank-sells-dollars.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah forwards gained
by the most in more than a week after the central bank said it
sold dollars to boost onshore supply of the greenback and
improve investor confidence.  Bank Indonesia stepped up intervention to help narrow the
gap between the onshore and offshore exchange rates, Hendar,
 executive director  for monetary policy at the central bank, said
in an interview yesterday. Global funds added 1.2 trillion
rupiah ($123 million) to their local-currency government  debt
holdings  last week, the most since the five days ended Dec. 7,
finance ministry data show.  “Bank Indonesia’s assurance reduces the perceived foreign
exchange risk for investors as it demonstrates its commitment to
keep the rupiah at a stable and relatively strong level,” said
Mika Martumpal, a currency analyst at PT Bank CIMB Niaga in
Jakarta. “Foreign inflows will continue as long as the global
situation remains supportive.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards gained 0.5 percent to
9,818 per dollar as of 3:13 p.m. in Jakarta, the most since Jan.
21, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 0.6 percent
cheaper than the spot rate, which weakened 0.9 percent to 9,760,
prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg show. A daily
 fixing  used to settle the derivative contracts was set at 9,816
today by the Association of Banks in  Singapore .  Bank Indonesia  is aware of “issues” regarding the fixing
set by the Association and is discussing with policy makers in
 Southeast Asia  on how to manage them, spokesman Difi Johansyah
said by phone from Jakarta today, after the Monetary Authority
of Singapore said reviews over the quotes are ongoing, according
to a Dec. 20 statement.  Debt Sale  The central bank sees room to adjust foreign-exchange rules
to temper excess dollar demand and stabilize the rupiah, said
Hendar, without elaborating.  “This is in line with our effort to not have a dual
foreign-exchange market,” he said, referring to the increase in
dollar supply. “We are leaning toward seeing a narrower gap
between the rupiah’s onshore and offshore levels.”  One-month implied volatility in the rupiah, which measures
expected moves in exchange rates used to price options, was
unchanged at 6.25 percent, the least since Jan. 9.  The  Finance Ministry  plans to sell 7 trillion rupiah of
debt maturing in one to 15 years today, according to a statement
on its website. The yield on the 5.625 percent sovereign notes
due May 2023 climbed two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 5.22 percent, the highest level since Jan. 22, prices from
the Inter Dealer Market Association show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  