-- Russia Goes From Fake Democracy to Faux Dictatorship
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-01-29T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/russia-goes-from-fake-democracy-to-faux-dictatorship.html
In recent months,  Russia  has adopted
a slew of regulations -- on freedom of assembly, free speech,
the Internet, non-governmental organizations, gays and foreign
adoptions -- that would place it among the most repressive and
backward nations on Earth.  Only one difference: So far, no one is bothering to enforce
most of the new rules.  Ever since Russians took to the streets en masse to protest
the rigged parliamentary elections of December 2011, the
country’s legislators have been working to settle scores.  New
laws  set hefty fines for unsanctioned gatherings, create a
procedure to shut down websites with “extremist” content and
threaten journalists with prison terms for slander. Non-
governmental organizations, some of which were active in
documenting vote irregularities, must register with the Justice
Ministry as “foreign agents” and mention this humiliating status
in all their materials.  When President Vladimir Putin signed the bills into law
last summer, one might have expected him to turn Russia into the
political equivalent of  China , or worse. As it happens, the
enforcement has been decidedly spotty.  There have been a few slander charges against investigative
reporters, including one in the Urals region who accused a local
judge of corruption, but so far no one has been convicted or
jailed. Similarly, no one has been slapped with the maximum fine
of 300,000 rubles ($10,000) for organizing an unsanctioned rally
or participating in one, even though thousands of people have
taken part in such rallies, including one near the Kremlin on
Dec. 15. Although some fines of 20,000 rubles to 30,000 rubles
have been imposed, such cases are few and far between. Not a
single popular website has been closed down for “extremism.” A
few sites have been forced to remove pages dealing with illegal
drugs.  As for the “foreign agent” law, on Jan. 16 Justice Minister
Alexander Konovalov effectively told the parliament that he had
no intention of implementing the legislation.  According  to the
newspaper Gazeta.ru, he said his ministry would not compile a
list of foreign agents. Instead, it would wait for law
enforcement agencies to suggest candidates. “We are unable to
monitor organizations for foreign funding,” Konovalov said.  Oddly, the lack of enforcement has had no effect on the
parliament’s lawmaking fervor. Recent examples include
a bill (which the government has asked to be thrown out) setting
large fines for using offensive language in the media, a loosely
worded ban on “propaganda of homosexuality among minors”
(tentatively approved), and a pending bill meting out punishment
for “offending religious feelings.”  The anti-swearing bill left media experts mystified. “We
know it’s wrong to curse in public places and in the media,
penalties and fines already exist for this,” respected TV
journalist Nikolai Svanidze  told  the RIA Novosti news agency.  The anti-gay legislation engendered indignation in liberal
media and blogs, and even sparked a fight between gay activists
and religious zealots in front of parliament. Yet the experience
of St. Petersburg, where a similar law has been in effect since
March, suggests it will have little impact. Only one person has
been affected: Gay rights activist Nikolai Alexeyev was fined
5,000 rubles ($167) for picketing City Hall with a poster saying
“Homosexuality is no perversion. Hockey on grass and ballet on
ice are.” His case is now working its way through the European
Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg.  To be sure, the recently passed law banning foreign
adoptions -- retaliation for a U.S. law placing sanctions on
corrupt Russian officials -- is likely to be strictly enforced.
Putin has actively championed the measure, speaking passionately
on several occasions about the wrongs done to Russian children
in the U.S.  For the most part, though, the parliament has succeeded in
painting Russia as a country where civil liberties are
ruthlessly repressed -- without having much actual effect. All
its best efforts to run an intimidation campaign are being
systematically mocked and ignored by those in power.  “The experience of the last eight or nine months has taught
us that the Duma is just working for its own sake,”  said 
journalist Yuri Saprykin, a prominent figure in last winter’s
protests. To enforce the laws as written, “you would have to
induct half the country into the police force and sick them on
the other half.”  Columnist Oleg Kashin noted a difference in some of the
more recent laws: They are aimed at groups that are not
particularly dangerous to Putin’s rule. As such, they could in
the future prove useful to the Kremlin, should it ever want to
undertake some symbolic liberalization.  “The list of reforms that could be immediately announced
would be much more impressive,” Kashin  wrote  on openspace.ru.
“One could lower the fines for taking part in rallies, abolish
the ’foreign agent’ notion, decriminalize slander and so on, all
the way up to allowing U.S. citizens to adopt Russian orphans.”  Even if Kashin’s hypothesis proves untrue, one thing is
certain: The parliament has used its year in power to turn
Russia from a pretend democracy into an equally fake
dictatorship.  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow and Kiev
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 