-- Russian Laundering Accusations Are Unjust, Cypriot Speaker Says
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2013-01-29T15:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/russian-laundering-accusations-are-unjust-cypriot-speaker-says.html
Accusations that Cyprus is a tax
haven and  money laundering  center for Russians are “unfounded”
and “unjust”, Cyprus Parliament President Yiannakis Omirou
said.  Cyprus fully complies with international conventions and
European legislation against money laundering, Omirou said in a
letter to his counterparts in all 17 euro-area members and to
European Parliament President  Martin Schulz . The  International
Monetary Fund , the  Council of Europe  and the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development have all given a “high”
ranking for the country’s adoption and implementation of the
measures, he said.  In June, Cyprus became the fifth euro-area nation to
request a rescue and is still negotiating the size and terms
with the European Union and the IMF. Investment flows between
Russia and Cyprus create suspicion that laundering may be behind
the transactions, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said Jan. 21. Euro-region states will make tougher money-
laundering laws in Cyprus a precondition for aid, he said a day
later.  Cyprus isn’t used by Russian oligarchs to deposit illegal
money and Cypriot banks are subject to “strict” controls for
opening accounts and for transferring funds, with lenders
supervised by the Central Bank of Cyprus and by extension the
 European Central Bank , Omirou said, according to a  statement  on
Cyprus government press office’s website.  Transit Hub  Given its EU membership, Russian companies use Cyprus as a
transit hub for investing across Europe and for listings on the
London Stock Exchange, Omirou said. Cyprus appears as the
biggest investor in  Russia  because Russian capital in the form
of dividends comes to Cyprus and is reinvested in Russia, he
said.  Omirou rejected the allegation that business activities in
Cyprus are dominated by Russia, with only three of more than 80
shipping companies registered on the island belonging to
Russians, compared with 36 owned by Germans, while Canadian
energy firms invest in Russia via Cyprus and Israelis invest in
the Russian and Ukrainian property markets via the country,
Omirou said.  The holding company model of Cyprus is similar to that of
Malta, Luxembourg and the U.K. while the country’s low tax
regime, which compares to that of Ireland and Luxembourg, was
approved by the EU when Cyprus joined the bloc in 2004, Omirou
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  