-- S&P Keeps Negative Outlook on Belgium With Deficit Goal at Risk
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-01-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/s-p-keeps-negative-outlook-on-belgium-with-deficit-goal-at-risk.html
Standard & Poor’s  maintained its
negative outlook on  Belgium ’s credit rating as a shrinking
economy may put the government’s 2013 deficit target at risk.  The negative outlook on Belgium’s AA rating reflects risks
to the country’s budgetary and economic performance, S&P said
yesterday in a statement. The ratings company projected that the
Belgian economy will contract 0.1 percent on a per capita basis
this year, putting the government’s goal of a budget deficit of
2.15 percent of gross domestic product at risk.  “Weakening domestic demand, increased unemployment and
ongoing budgetary consolidation presents downside risk to our
current growth projection,” said Marko Mrsnik, a credit analyst
at S&P in  Madrid . “Conversely, we could revise the outlook to
stable during 2013 if the government continues to comply with
its budgetary strategy and if risks related to the economic
growth outlook and the materialization of contingent liabilities
subside.”  Belgian government guarantees on  Dexia SA (DEXB) ’s borrowings,
equal to more than 11 percent of the country’s gross domestic
product, also continue to present a risk, S&P said. Belgium
would face a long-term credit rating cut should those contingent
liabilities push its net debt to more than 100 percent of GDP
from an estimated 94.5 percent this year, according to
yesterday’s statement. Still, S&P expects that Belgium’s public
debt will peak this year, echoing comments that led  Fitch
Ratings  last week to revise its outlook on Belgium’s rating to
stable from negative.  Investors often ignore rating actions, evidenced by the
rally in Treasuries after the U.S. lost its top grade at S&P in
2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  