-- SABMiller CEO Says Beer Deals Slowing Amid High Multiples
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-01-29T16:59:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/sabmiller-ceo-says-beer-deals-slowing-amid-high-multiples.html
Global beer acquisitions by big
brewers have slowed because the prices paid have skyrocketed,
 SABMiller (SAB)  Plc Chief Executive Officer Graham Mackay said.  “The last few have been at unthinkable levels,” Mackay
said at a conference in  San Antonio  hosted by Beer Business
Daily. “It’s hard to see how most of the potential deals can be
worth it.”  He didn’t specify what potential deals he was referring to.  Global brewers have used acquisitions to expand into new
markets in recent years. Including net debt,  Anheuser-Busch
InBev NV (ABI)  last year agreed to buy the remainder of Mexico’s Grupo
Modelo SAB for $17.1 billion while  Heineken NV (HEIA)  last year bought
Fraser & Neave Ltd.’s stake in their  Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB) 
joint venture for about $4.36 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Those deals followed London-based SABMiller’s 2011 purchase
Foster’s Group Ltd. in  Australia  for about $13 billion,
including net debt.  AB InBev is valuing Modelo’s enterprise value at 13 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
while Heineken is paying 17 times F&N’s Ebitda, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mackay also said he believes Anheuser-Busch’s purchase of
the rest of Modelo will be approved by U.S. regulators. Any
concessions won’t derail the deal, he also said.  Mackay declined to say whether he expected a deal between
Anheuser-Busch InBev and SABMiller.  “Our job is to make our business as expensive as possible
to buy,” he said.  Share Gain  SABMiller shares rose 27 percent in the 12 months through
yesterday, boosting the company’s market value to 49.3 billion
pounds ($77.7 billion).  Last week, the world’s second-biggest brewer reported
organic revenue that beat estimates for the third quarter as
consumers opted for pricier beers.  Revenue at the maker of Grolsch and Peroni rose 8 percent
on an organic basis, which excludes the effects of acquisitions
and disposals, the London-based company said in a statement.
That was ahead of the 6.5 percent median estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  