-- Samaras Last Best Greek Hope With Compliance Not Defiance
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2013-01-29T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/samaras-last-best-greek-hope-with-compliance-instead-of-defiance.html
At his first cabinet meeting after
two inconclusive elections and six weeks of turmoil had pushed
 Greece  to the brink of exiting the euro, Prime Minister Antonis Samaras said he’d had enough.  In a seven-minute speech, he warned his ministers to
deliver while reducing their pay by 30 percent. “I’m not
interested in good intentions,” Samaras said at the June 21
meeting, televised on state-run NET TV. “I want results.”  The 61-year-old premier has wasted little time since then
haranguing European leaders to stop fanning speculation Greece’s
place in the euro was less than secure. He has shepherded months
of talks between his coalition partners and his troika of
creditors over new austerity measures, and clinched the release
last month of 34 billion euros ($45.7 billion) of bailout funds
that were frozen since he came to power.  He has silenced, at least temporarily, a parade of
economists, investors and politicians who predicted Greece’s
departure from the euro. The region’s finance ministers spent
just 10 minutes on Jan. 22 before signing off on another aid
instalment, the latest indication Samaras is the Greek they are
banking on to succeed in helping keep their currency intact.  The Athens Stock Exchange General Index more than  doubled 
since June 5, outperforming all equity markets in western
 Europe . Greece’s 10-year bond yields are about 10 percent from
30.55 percent at the beginning of June.  Greek Hope  “He is possibly the last best hope for anyone who believes
that Greece’s best interests lie in remaining in the euro
zone,” said Kevin Featherstone, professor of European politics
at the  London School of Economics . “If Samaras were somehow to
fall, it’s not at all clear who could possibly succeed him.”  At the  World Economic Forum  at Davos last week, Greece
slipped down the agenda for the first time in three years, even
though its economy is in what Samaras has called a “Great
Depression,” with a sixth year of recession and one in two
youths now jobless. It may have helped that he didn’t attend.  It wasn’t always this way. Predecessor  George Papandreou ,
60, who revealed Greece’s misstated deficit figures when he came
to power in October 2009, was feted as the man who would change
Greece. His visits to Davos in 2010 and 2011 helped keep the
country as front-page news.  Papandreou, a contemporary of Samaras at  Amherst College  in
the early 1970s, promised a sweeping overhaul of the economy,
including cuts to pensions and wages for state workers, in
return for euro area and International Monetary Fund money to
prevent the first financial demise of a euro area country.  Political Collapse  Samaras opposed Papandreou’s position. He rejected Greece’s
first bailout in 2010 and held up loan payments in November 2011
by refusing to give a written endorsement to budget measures
after Papandreou’s government collapsed.  He then insisted on sending Greeks to the ballot box last
May rather than continue with the interim leadership of  Lucas Papademos , a former European Central Bank vice president, in a
move that misread the public’s support for him. His New
Democracy party failed to win enough votes in the May 6 election
to form a government, resulting in another national ballot six
weeks later.  “The insistence on elections was to bring about one of the
biggest collapses of any party system in western Europe since
1945,” Featherstone said. “This is playing with fire to a very
considerable degree. There is a sense that he makes short-term
political calculations. Critics see him as an opportunist.”  The May election led to the emergence of Syriza party
leader Alexis Tsipras, who was perceived as posing a further
threat to political stability in Greece. Tsipras, 38, heads an
anti-austerity party that rode a wave of public anger to second
place in the vote.  Drachma Specter  During the campaign, Tsipras vowed to cancel terms of the
Greek bailout, in a challenge to German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
to call his bluff and expel Greece. Financial markets gyrated
with the benchmark Athens stock index falling to the  lowest 
level in more than two decades on June 5.  Samaras, campaigning on the choice of “euro or drachma,”
the old Greek currency, won the June election and formed a
government with Pasok, Papandreou’s party, and the smaller
Democratic Left. He also promised EU leaders that he will honor
terms of the current 130 billion-euro rescue package.  Seven months and 13.5 billion euros of austerity measures
later, Samaras has been rewarded with another two years until
2016 to meet budget-cutting targets.  While Papandreou had increasingly faced isolation, Merkel
braved demonstrations to visit the Greek capital in October,
repaying Samaras’s commitment to playing by the rules  Germany 
had set. For his part, Samaras has gone to Berlin twice. In his
first trip, in August, Merkel admonished lawmakers from her
coalition who said Greece should quit the euro, telling them to
“weigh their words very carefully.”  Merkel Messages  “I want Greece to stay in the  euro zone  and that’s what
I’m working for,” Merkel said. She said she is “deeply
convinced” Samaras will make every effort.  That contrasts with a threat she delivered to Papandreou in
November 2011 after he returned from a meeting in Brussels with
a new bailout package and debt writedown only to declare his
intention to hold a referendum on austerity measures tied to it.
The plan was subsequently rescinded and Papandreou fell.  The change toward Samaras shows “how close things were to
disaster,” said Stathis Kalyvas, a professor of political
science at  Yale University . “This strikes me as a classic case
of someone stepping up to the occasion. Because expectations
were so low about Samaras, most foreign observers have been
pleasantly surprised.”  Less Public  Samaras, a champion tennis player in his youth, comes from
a political family. He is the grandson of a parliamentarian and
the nephew of another, though his father was a cardiologist.  Since taking office, his public appearances have been less
frequent than those of Papandreou, whose father was prime
minister in the 1980s and again in the mid-1990s.  Samaras held just three cabinet meetings, preferring to
receive briefings from ministers far from television cameras, a
departure from Papandreou’s style of holding open discussions,
inspired by his annual symposiums on foreign policy and
environmental issues held on Greek islands. Samaras’s office
said he wasn’t available to comment for this story.  “He doesn’t want to leave things hanging,” says Dino
Arcoumanis, a school friend who is deputy vice chancellor at
 City University  in  London . “He doesn’t want to finish meetings
without some decisions. Greece now needs that.”  Coalition Glue  The greatest challenge will be to hold together a coalition
that in its short lifespan has already lasted longer than any
attempted since the return of democracy in 1974.  He’s transcended Greek political traditions by forging a
close relationship with his finance minister, Yannis Stournaras,
who comes from the opposite side of the spectrum. Stournaras was
an adviser to Costas Simitis, the Pasok prime minister as Greece
readied for euro membership in the late 1990s.  At the same time, the government has been criticized by
human rights groups for police treatment of illegal immigrants.
He sent officers in to break up a nine-month strike at a
steelmaker in July. This month, he used an emergency decree that
forced public transportation workers to end a nine-day walkout.  The potential clash between European demands for more
budget cuts and Samaras’s ability to deliver may keep alive the
threat of Greece’s exit from the euro.  The economy has contracted by more than 20 percent since
2008 and the IMF says it won’t stop shrinking until next year,
with reforms remaining “a constant challenge.” They include an
overhaul of the tax system and selling state assets amid waning
social support and “political fragilities.”  Lingering Risk  “The efforts of Greek and European leaders have helped,
but have not taken this risk off the table,” the IMF said in a
report released on Jan. 18. “Indeed, until Greece completes its
external adjustment and restores its competitiveness, it cannot
be fully taken off the table.”  While the conviction that Greece must remain in the euro
“at all costs” has kept Samaras’s coalition united so far, any
wavering could reignite the debate over a Greek exit by year end
following elections in Germany.  Samaras has focused attention on Germany in a bid to win
the support of a public that’s paying the most for Greece’s
bailouts. A poll last week by ZDF showed Merkel’s Christian
Democratic Union-led bloc had the support of 41 percent of
respondents, compared with 29 percent for the opposition  Social
Democratic Party .  German History  One of the first to evoke the danger of Greece’s austerity
leading to a repeat of the German instability that ushered in
the Nazi era, Samaras repeated the comparison for his German
audience in an interview with newspaper Handelsblatt on Oct. 5.  The Greek prime minister has given at least two interviews
to Bild, a newspaper that advised Papandreou in an open letter
in March 2010 for Greeks to rise earlier and work harder to
overcome the crisis.  “One of Samaras’s skills is his ability to concentrate on
the present rather than dwell on the past,” said Arcoumanis,
the school friend, whom Samaras appointed ambassador-at-large in
September. “If you are talking about 20 years ago, clearly he
is a very different person.”  Armed with a master’s degree in business administration
from  Harvard University , Samaras entered parliament for  New
Democracy  in 1977, at the age of 26. Before he was 40, he served
as both foreign minister and finance minister.  Wilderness Years  While as foreign minister in 1992 he signed the EU treaty
that paved the way for the euro, he’s remembered more for his
dispute with his prime minister over the name of the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.  He abandoned New Democracy in 1993, and formed his own
party, Political Spring, which drew enough defectors to bring
about the collapse of the then government.  The breakaway party floundered after a few elections,
casting Samaras into relative obscurity. He re-joined New
Democracy in 2004 and took over as opposition leader when the
party was ousted by Papandreou and Pasok in 2009.  “He’s been led by circumstances and forced by
circumstances not of his own making to represent the last best
hope before further chaos,” said Featherstone at the  London
School  of Economics. “He’s the best by default.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  