-- San Francisco Lawmaker Urges Libor Manipulation Inquiry
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-01-29T04:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/san-francisco-lawmaker-urges-libor-manipulation-inquiry.html
San Francisco Supervisor John Avalos
plans to request a hearing today to examine whether city
investments were harmed by manipulation of a key lending rate,
his aide said.  The lawmaker will ask the city’s financial team to examine
the effect on its investments of efforts to rig the benchmark
London interbank offered rate, or Libor, and whether any losses
can be recovered, said the aide, Jeremy Pollock.  “We know the banks colluded to rig interest rates
resulting in significant losses to taxpayers across the
nation,” Avalos said in a statement. “We owe it to our city
residents to find out how much this type of bank fraud cost San
Francisco.”  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-biggest lender, paid a
record 290 million-pound ($470 million) fine in June for
manipulating Libor, used to set rates for more than $300
trillion of securities. Some interest-rate derivatives known as
swaps, used by municipalities to hedge against losses, were tied
to Libor.  San Francisco’s general fund “has no swaps in its
portfolio,” said Nadia Sesay, the city’s director of public
finance.  Interest-rate swaps  are derivative transactions in which
two parties agree to trade interest payments on a set amount of
debt, letting one of the parties create a fixed-rate payment on
variable-rate debt.  Eight California counties and public entities sued
Barclays,  UBS AG (UBS)  and 20 other banks alleging they lost millions
of dollars because the financial institutions manipulated Libor.
The plaintiffs, which include San Diego and San Mateo counties,
said they were cheated out of higher interest payments on
investments such as swaps and corporate bonds tied to Libor.  Regulators investigating Libor manipulation have sought
information from more than a dozen banks that set rates in the
U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan .  -- With assistance from Karen Gullo in San Francisco. Editors:
Pete Young, Ted Bunker  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in New York at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 