-- Sands China Seen to Get Boost From New Casino Tables
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-01-29T09:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/sands-china-seen-getting-revenue-boost-from-new-gaming-tables.html
Sands China Ltd. (1928) , the Macau casino
operator controlled by billionaire  Sheldon Adelson , could get a
revenue and profit boost after receiving government approval
this month for 200 more gaming tables.  The gambling company may get about $500 million in added
revenue annually from the new tables, CLSA Ltd. analyst Aaron
Fischer said via e-mail. It would get an additional $200 million
of Ebitda, or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization each year, he said.  Sands China has joined rivals such as  Galaxy Entertainment
Group Ltd. (27)  in expanding on Macau’s popular Cotai strip, a piece
of reclaimed land that is Asia’s equivalent of the Las Vegas
strip. Sands plans to invest at least $2.5 billion to build The
Parisian, its fifth resort in Macau.  Sands China Chief Executive Officer Edward Tracy confirmed
the company received approval for the new tables in a press
conference yesterday. Some of the new tables will be added ahead
of the Chinese New Year holiday that starts Feb. 10, he said.  Sands China gained 1.6 percent to HK$38.15 in Hong Kong
trading, boosting its  advance  this month to 12 percent. While
that beats the Hang Seng Index’s 4.4 percent gain, it’s lower
than the 26 percent jump for MGM China Holdings Ltd. and the 22
percent surge for Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd.  Market Share  The increase in tables will mean Sands China will have
about 26 percent of casino tables in Macau, David Bain, an
analyst at Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc. who recommends buying the
stock, said in a research note.  Billionaire Stanley Ho’s  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880)  has the highest
market share by revenue among Macau’s six casino operators this
month, at 26.2 percent, with Sands China ranked second at 19.6
percent, according to Bain’s estimates.  Macau casino  revenue  rose 20 percent to a record of 28.2
billion patacas ($3.5 billion) last month, as Christmas
promotions drew more holiday-makers to the only city in China
where casino gambling is legal. Full-year casino revenue
increased 14 percent to 304 billion patacas, also a record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  