-- Sanofi, Isis Win FDA Approval for Hyper-Cholesterol Drug
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-01-30T00:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/sanofi-isis-win-fda-approval-for-hyper-cholesterol-drug.html
Sanofi and  Isis Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ISIS) 
won U.S. marketing approval for their drug to treat a hyper form
of high cholesterol that will carry a warning label about the
risk of liver toxicity.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the injection
Kynamro for people with a rare disease that leads to life-
threatening high cholesterol, the agency said yesterday in a
 statement . People with the disease, known as homozygous familial
hypercholesterolemia, may have heart attacks or die early.  The drug may generate 300 million euros ($403 million) in
peak sales by 2020, Philippe Lanone, an analyst with Natixis
Securities, said in an interview. The approval triggers a $25
million milestone payment to Carlsbad, California-based Isis and
the company will get 30 percent to 50 percent of Kynamro
profits, according to a 2008 agreement with Paris-based Sanofi.  “FDA approval of Kynamro is great news for patients with
HoFH who are in need of additional treatment options for this
rare, and often underdiagnosed disease,” David Meeker, the
president and chief executive officer of  Sanofi (SAN) ’s Genzyme unit
in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , said in a statement.  Aegerion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AEGR)  won U.S. approval Dec. 24 for
a similar medicine, Juxtapid, in pill form.  The FDA is requiring four postmarketing studies for
Kynamro, including programs to monitor the safety of the drug.  Rare Disease  In late-stage trials, 8 percent of patients treated with
Kynamro experienced elevated levels of an enzyme that indicates
liver damage. Juxtapid from Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Aegerion also was approved with a boxed warning about the
potential for liver toxicity.  Kynamro treats  homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia ,
which causes abnormalities in liver cells responsible for
clearing LDL, or low density lipoprotein, particles from the
blood. People with the disease can have cholesterol levels two
to four times higher than normal, according to the  National
Institutes of Health .  Kynamro failed to win European Union backing in December.
The medicine was rejected because it leads to flu-like symptoms
and liver damage that deter patients from sticking with
treatment, the European Medicines Agency said in a Dec. 13
 statement . Sanofi said the companies planned to request a re-
examination of the opinion.  Isis studied 261 people treated with Kynamro in three
pooled late-stage trials, including those with other forms of
familial hypercholesterolemia, that supported a pivotal trial of
51 homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia patients.  Isis said the drug reduced LDL cholesterol by 25 percent in
patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia in two
late-stage trials, compared with 3.3 percent for those on
placebo.  The treatment may generate $50 million in 2016 for Isis,
according to the average of four analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  