-- Santander’s Capital in Focus as Spain Property Purge Ends
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-01-30T16:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/santander-s-capital-in-focus-as-spain-property-purge-ends.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN) ’s completion of a
7 billion-euro ($9.4 billion) real estate cleanup is shifting
the spotlight to how it will address investor concerns about
capital and fix businesses in the U.K. and  Brazil. (SANB11)   Spain ’s biggest bank probably reported net income
rebounding to 952 million euros ($1.3 billion) in the fourth
quarter compared with a profit of 47 million euros in the same
period a year earlier, when it took a 1.8 billion-euro
provisioning charge, according to the average estimate in a
Bloomberg  survey  of 10 analysts. The Santander, Spain-based bank
will publish earnings tomorrow.  Shares in Santander have surged almost 60 percent since
July, when European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged
to defend the euro and buy the bonds of Spain if the government
agreed on accepting a bailout package. Declining profit at
 businesses  in Brazil and the U.K., which had previously helped
buoy Santander’s earnings, and doubts over the bank’s capital
levels are still a concern for investors.  “Capital is the single biggest issue for Santander,”
Matthew Williams, an analyst at Carmignac Gestion, which has 54
billion euros under management including the Spanish bank’s
shares and bonds, said by telephone from Paris two days ago.  Santander has already booked almost 7 billion euros in
provisions to cover 90 percent of charges for real estate losses
ordered by the government after Spain’s property bubble turned
to bust. It pledged to complete the property cleanup in 2012.  The bank fell 1.5 percent to 6.40 euros at close in  Madrid ,
paring gains this year to 4.9 percent and valuing the company at
68 billion euros.  Draghi Effect  Easier funding conditions for  Spanish (BTO)  banks such as
Santander after Draghi’s pledge to do “whatever it takes” to
defend the euro led Carmignac to take the decision to  invest  in
Santander stock last August after buying its bonds in June,
Williams said in a phone interview.  Carmignac bought 39 million shares, or a 0.4 percent stake,
data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  “Spain is looking better today than it did in June,” he
said. “Mr. Draghi has spoken but there have also been credible
steps taken by the regulators and the government.”  ‘Constructive View’  While Santander still faces rising  defaults  for other types
of credit such as loans to small firms, the real estate purge
will allow Chairman  Emilio Botin  to be more upbeat about the
bank’s Spanish business, said  Antonio Ramirez , an analyst at
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd. in  London . Botin, 78, has said
Spain will be one of the biggest “positive surprises” for
investors.  “They will have a more constructive view on Spain although
they will continue to be cautious,” Ramirez, who has a “market
perform” recommendation on Santander, said by telephone.  Investors remain focused on the  bank’s capital position ,
said Williams of Carmignac.  Santander may have a capital shortfall of as much as 18
billion euros at its Spanish unit based on what it has
“actually available” to absorb losses,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said in an
October report. Santander dismissed the report as wrong.  Capital Shortfall  The need to generate capital has also forced Santander to
sacrifice future earnings by selling off profitable businesses
abroad such as a stake in Mexican bank Grupo Financiero
Santander Mexico SAB in September, Benjie Creelan-Sandford, an
analyst at Macquarie Bank Ltd, said in a phone interview from
London two days ago.  Santander may have a capital shortfall of 7 billion euros,
based on a target of achieving a 10 percent core Tier 1 capital
ratio under Basel III criteria, a measure of financial strength,
by 2014, Creelan-Sandford said. Contributing to the concerns are
the weaknesses of businesses in  Brazil  and the U.K., he said.  Profit at Santander’s unit in Brazil, which contributed 28
percent of 2011 earnings, may have dropped 20 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year ago as net interest income fell and
provisions jumped, according to estimates from  Banco BPI (BPI)  SA of
 Portugal .  Risks of further losses from loans “remain on the upside”
as Brazil’s economy weakens, Berenberg Bank analyst  Nick Anderson  wrote in a Jan. 28 report.  Earnings from the U.K., which contributed 12 percent of
Santander’s profit in 2011, may drop an annual 31 percent in the
quarter, hit by a 19 percent decline in net interest income,
according to Banco BPI.  “People are watching Brazil and what’s happening in the
U.K. and a lot of people have questions about their structure
and capital,”  John Raymond , an analyst at CreditSights Inc.,
said by telephone from London. “They are going to have a harder
time than they did in the past explaining everything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  