-- Saudi Aramco’s Sadara Chemical Project Will Get Funding in 2013
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-01-29T13:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/saudi-aramco-s-sadara-chemical-project-will-get-funding-in-2013.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Co. and its
partner  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  plan to close financing this year on
their $20 billion Sadara chemicals joint venture, the treasurer
of the state-owned Middle Eastern crude producer said.  Saudi Arabian Oil, known as  Saudi Aramco , is weighing
options including loans, sukuk, or Islamic bonds, and public
funds to pay for its large joint-venture projects, Jamal Al Rammah, said today in Dubai.  Sadara Chemical Co., the joint venture, will borrow $5
billion in loans from the U.S. Export-Import Bank, the
Washington-based institution said in September, and future Saudi
Aramco ventures will also seek sukuk funding, Al Rammah said at
the MEED project finance conference.  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest crude exporter, is
boosting capacity to refine oil and produce chemicals, to meet
domestic fuel demand and make materials used to manufacture
 consumer goods . The kingdom plans to build refineries and
chemical plants to help diversify the economy and reduce
dependence on crude exports.  The Sadara Chemical venture planned for the Saudi port of
Jubail on the  Persian Gulf  is one of Aramco’s biggest projects,
along with a refinery and chemical plant built with France’s
 Total SA (FP)  at the same location, Al Rammah said. The project with
Total raised $8.5 billion in debt, including Saudi Arabia’s
first Sukuk for a new facility, he said.  Saudi Arabia needs to develop a more active secondary
market for sukuk, he said. The European financial crisis creates
opportunities for an expansion of the sukuk market by regional
lenders, and export credit agencies will also play a bigger role
in funding Middle Eastern projects, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  