-- Saudi Arabia Leads Major Weapons Markets in Corruption Ranking
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-01-29T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/saudi-arabia-leads-major-weapons-markets-in-corruption-ranking.html
Saudi Arabia  is among the biggest
arms-importing countries that have insufficient safeguards
against corruption in the defense industry, Transparency
International said.  Seven of the nine countries that imported more than $1.5
billion of weapons in 2011 ranked between high and very high for
corruption risk, the non-profit organization said today as it
unveiled a ranking of 82 countries. Morocco, Pakistan, Turkey
and China were among the largest markets with the lowest grades.  Saudi Arabia signed a $29.4 billion agreement with the U.S.
in 2011 to buy 84 new F-15 fighter jets and modernize 70
existing ones. A unit of  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. (EAD)  is currently being investigated by the U.K. Serious Fraud
Office over bribery allegations in the country.  “Arms races can be started just to satisfy the greed of
individuals,” Transparency International said in the report,
whose principal author was Oliver Cover. “International
security can be put at risk through corrupt agendas.”  The report highlights the risk that companies from  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s largest arms maker, to EADS face as
they seek growth markets. Cuts in U.S. and European defense
spending have driven weapons makers to pursue contracts in the
Middle East, Asia and other markets to compensate for lost
revenue at home.  Transparency International said that 70 percent of the
countries fell into the bottom three bands for the risk of
corruption, which costs the defense industry at least $20
billion a year.  Worst Performers  The worst performers included  Algeria ,  Angola , Cameroon,
Eritrea, the  Democratic Republic  of Congo, and  Syria . Egypt, one
of the largest recipients of U.S. military aid, was among them
along with Libya, which is expected to be a major purchaser as
it rebuilds its military following NATO air strikes in 2011.
China, which imports weapons mainly from Russia, had a high risk
for corruption, the group said.  Dealings overseas have already ensnared companies such as
 BAE Systems (BA/) , Europe’s largest defense contractor, EADS, and
Italy’s  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  in corruption probes.  “In many of the growing export markets, the defense
procurement chiefs of the purchasing countries are really
interested in raising anti-corruption standards, Mark Pyman,
director of Transparency International U.K.’s defense and
security program, said in an interview. Saudi Arabia, for
instance, is trying to address shortfalls, he said.  Offsets, deals in which companies return business to the
buying country, are often poorly regulated and create risks of
money being misappropriated, Pyman said.  Best Performers  Only Germany and Australia received an A-grade, indicating
a very low risk of corruption. The U.S., with the world’s
largest defense budget, and the U.K., western Europe’s biggest
spender, joined Austria, South Korea, Sweden and Taiwan in
receiving B-grades, denoting low corruption risk.  Countries covered in the report, which were graded against
77 questions on issues from budgetary transparency to whistle-
blower rules, spent about $1.6 trillion on defense in 2011,
 Transparency International  said. The report follows a study last
year into corruption prevention policies at defense firms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  