-- Scotland Sets 2030 Carbon Cutting Target for Power Sector
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-01-29T13:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/scotland-sets-2030-carbon-cutting-target-for-power-sector.html
Scotland set a goal to cut emissions
from the power industry by 2030 as First Minister  Alex Salmond 
criticized the U.K. government for neglecting such a target.  Scotland plans to reduce emissions from electricity output
by more than four-fifths to 50 grams of carbon dioxide a
kilowatt-hour, Salmond said today at a conference in Aberdeen.
Power producers in Scotland generated about 347 grams of CO2 a
kilowatt-hour in 2010.  The move follows a decision by the U.K. government to
withhold a so-called decarbonization goal from energy
legislation until 2016, citing carbon-reduction budgets already
in place. Clean-power developers including  Vestas Wind Systems
A/S (VWS)  said the lack of a target would increase the risk of
committing to long-term U.K. investments.  “U.K. coalition ministers’ mixed messages on  energy policy 
and continuing uncertainty around electricity market reform,
including the lack of a decarbonization target until at least
2016, is undermining confidence,” Salmond said. He urged
Britain to follow his lead to boost security for investors.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government brushed aside the
rebuke from Salmond, whose Scottish  National Party  is fighting
for independence from Britain. Cameron wishes to maintain the
union.  Energy Policy  “The U.K. government is fully committed to decarbonizing
the economy,” U.K. Secretary of State  Ed Davey  said today in an
e-mailed statement. “While energy policy is not a devolved
matter and most energy investment is determined at a U.K. level,
I am pleased that the Scottish government is playing an active
role in supporting this agenda.”  Scotland’s target was recommended by the U.K. Committee on
 Climate Change , which also advised the British government. The
goal is underpinned by plans to install 10 gigawatts of offshore
 wind turbines  over the next decade, according to Salmond.  The first minister outlined accords between the  Highland
and Islands Enterprise  development agency and four Scottish
ports to expand offshore wind and attract 100 million pounds
($157 million) of investment. The industry has brought in 165
million pounds from six developers to date, member organization
 Scottish Renewables  said yesterday.  Scotland is seeking to get all of its electricity from
renewable sources by 2020, compared with about 27 percent in
2011, according to government  data . The U.K. has a target to get
30 percent of its power from renewables, up from almost 12
percent now.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  