-- Seaspan May Buy 15 More Ships as Prices Hit 4-Year Low
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-02-06T18:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/seaspan-may-buy-15-more-ships-as-prices-hit-4-year-low.html
(Corrects story originally published Jan. 30 to show in
first paragraph that Seaspan is part-owned by Tiger Group
Investments.)  Seaspan Corp ., a ship-leasing
company part-owned by  Tiger Group Investments , may order as many
as 15 more container ships over the next year to benefit from
the lowest vessel prices in more than four years.  Seaspan is in talks with two to three container lines to
lease the ships it plans to purchase, Chief Executive Officer
 Gerry Wang  said in an interview yesterday. The company had
already ordered another 15 vessels in the last three weeks, he
said in Hong Kong.  Ship prices have dropped because of industrywide losses,
overcapacity and tighter financing caused by European banks
paring lending. The price of a vessel that can carry as many as
13,500 20-foot containers was worth $107 million last month,
according to  Clarkson Plc , the world’s biggest shipbroker. That
is the lowest since it started compiling the data in June 2008.  “We are happy with the price level right now,” Wang said.
“We hope to capitalize on the situation. I have no reason to
say the market will go down further.”  Seaspan fell 0.2 percent to close at $18.77 in New York
trading yesterday. The stock rose 17 percent in 2012, its fourth
straight annual gain.  Yang Ming  The new vessels that the Hong Kong-based company plans to
order will be able to carry at least 10,000 20-foot-boxes each,
Wang said. Seaspan has agreed to charter five 14,000-box vessels
to Taiwan’s Yang Ming Marine Transport Corp., he said. The
ships, to be built by  Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. , will be
delivered from 2015.  “It’s quite reasonable for Seaspan to place orders as
operators are preferring leasing to owning ships in this
market,” said  Lawrence Li , a Shanghai-based analyst at UOB-Kay
Hian Holdings Ltd. “The new-building price is pretty low at the
moment and players like Seaspan have bargaining power.”  Yang Ming is following other lines in ordering more fuel-
efficient vessels as A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S will take delivery
in June the world’s biggest container vessel that will consume
about 35 percent less fuel per box than those currently in
service.  The price of 380 centistoke bunker fuel used by ships has
jumped about 13 percent in two years, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The average age of Seaspan’s fleet is about four years old,
compared with the industry average of 11-years, Wang said. The
company has  69 ships  on its fleet, according to its website.  ‘Modern Ships’  “There’s always demand for modern ships and for fuel-
efficient ships,” Wang said. “Operators are getting more
confident, and I will see more older ships being phased out.”  Trade between Asia and the U.S. was stronger in last 12
months as China continues to expand and the U.S. is on a
“solid” path of recovery, Wang said.  Chinese industrial companies’ profit rose 17.3 percent in
December, adding to signs the world’s second-largest economy’s
rebound is gaining momentum. Industrial profits may rise by an
average 30 percent this year as China recovers from a seven-
quarter slowdown, businesses start restocking and export demand
improves, Standard Chartered Plc forecasts.  Tiger Group , Carlyle Group LP and other investors formed a
ship fund in 2011 with the goal of buying $5 billion in assets
as container lines add new vessels to counter rising fuel costs.
Tiger also owns dry bulk ships and chemical tankers through
investments including Seaspan and  Greathorse Shipping .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net 
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  