-- Senate Foreign Relations Backs Kerry for Secretary of State
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-01-29T15:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/senate-foreign-relations-backs-kerry-for-secretary-of-state-1-.html
President  Barack Obama ’s nomination
of Senator  John Kerry  to be secretary of state won approval
today from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  The panel’s action by voice vote sends the nomination to
the Senate floor, where a final vote is scheduled for later
today. Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the
committee, showed up after the committee’s action to thank his
colleagues for their support.  Senator  Robert Menendez , the New Jersey Democrat in line to
replace Kerry as chairman, said the senator has “an impressive
grasp and depth and thoughtfulness.” Senator  Bob Corker  of
Tennessee, the top Republican on the panel, said, “I view him
as a realist, and I look forward to working with him.”  With members of both parties predicting Kerry will easily
win Senate confirmation, attention will turn to Obama’s more
contentious choices for other national security positions.
Confirmation hearings are scheduled on Jan. 31 for former
Senator Chuck Hagel to be secretary of defense and on Feb. 7 for
 John Brennan  to head the Central Intelligence Agency.  On foreign policy, Kerry shares Obama’s preference for
working through multinational alliances and for avoiding open-
ended engagement, such as the  Iraq war  they both opposed.
Kerry’s approach to U.S. intervention abroad has been reflected
by his comments on the war in Syria, in which he has shared
Obama’s reluctance about direct military involvement.  Kerry and Obama have political bonds dating to 2004, when
the senator gave Obama his breakthrough opportunity as the
keynote speaker at the Democratic convention that nominated
Kerry for president. The speech turned Obama, a state senator
from Illinois running for the  U.S. Senate , into a national
political star.  Vietnam Service  After graduating from  Yale University , Kerry volunteered
for the Navy. In two tours of duty in Vietnam, he rose to the
rank of lieutenant and served on a Swift Boat that traveled
treacherous river deltas. He was decorated with a Silver Star, a
Bronze Star and three Purple Hearts.  Kerry came to see the war he fought as futile, and on his
return to the U.S. he became a leader of Vietnam Veterans
Against the War. Kerry made an unsuccessful bid for a House seat
from Massachusetts the following year, then worked as a
prosecutor before being elected lieutenant governor in 1982 and
senator in 1984.  In 2008, Kerry backed Obama over front-runner  Hillary Clinton  in the Democratic presidential primaries, only to see
Obama choose Clinton as his first-term secretary of state.
Clinton is planning to depart the post within days.  Largely because of the wealth of his wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, Kerry is one of the richest members of Congress. His net
worth was at least $181.5 million in 2011, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  