-- Sesa’s Agarwal Plans $2.4 Billion Liberia Spend: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-01-30T10:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/sesa-s-agarwal-plans-2-4-billion-liberia-spend-corporate-india.html
Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA) , India’s largest
exporter of iron ore, plans to invest as much as $2.4 billion to
develop assets in Liberia in its first overseas expansion after
a court-ordered mining ban halted production at home.  The company, controlled by billionaire Anil Agarwal,
expects to use the money over the next four years on 30 million
metric tons of mining capacity in three properties in the
western African nation, Managing Director Prasun Kumar Mukherjee
said in a telephone interview. The first part of the project,
scheduled to start by March 2014 with 4 million tons of
capacity, will be financed through borrowings because
restrictions at home have stopped cash flow, he said.  “The Liberia project is progressing on schedule and right
now the only issue is how to continuously fund it,” Mukherjee
said from his office in Panaji, Goa. “Originally, the idea was
to finance it all internally but since one channel has stopped,
we are looking at a line of credit.”  Sesa, a unit of Agarwal’s London-based  Vedanta Resources
Plc (VED) , is among Indian miners and steelmakers including  Jindal
Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP)  seeking to secure raw materials abroad after
authorities cracked down on mining to protect the environment.
The development of the Liberian assets may help reverse Sesa’s
fortunes as it struggles with debt close to a record and awaits
approvals to resume ore extraction at home, said Giriraj Daga,
an analyst at Nirmal Bang Equities Pvt. in Mumbai.  Share Performance  Shares of the company rose 1.9 percent to 186.80 rupees at
close in Mumbai today. The stock has declined 8.3 percent in the
past year, compared with a 19 percent advance in the benchmark
BSE Sensitive Index. Sesa’s revenue from iron ore tumbled 99
percent in the quarter ended Dec. 31.  “Africa is one of the best destinations for securing low-
cost resources and Sesa is doing exactly that,” Daga said. “If
it is able to develop the project as envisaged, the move will
benefit the group.”  Sesa said in August 2011 that it would pay $90 million to
buy 51 percent of Western Cluster Ltd., which had plans to
develop iron-ore deposits and transport infrastructure in
Liberia. Last quarter, it bought the remaining stake.  The company is seeking to hire mining contractors to start
operations in Bomi, the site for the first phase of the Liberia
project, according to an ad today in the Business Day, a
Johannesburg-based newspaper. The contractor will carry out
mining activities, including drilling, blasting, loading and
hauling.  ‘Unforeseen Risks’  The iron-ore exporter may face challenges and “unforeseen
risks” as it embarks on its overseas quest for resources, said
Parin Vora, an analyst at Asia Markets Securities Pvt. in
Mumbai. Billionaire-lawmaker Naveen Jindal-controlled Jindal
Steel, India’s most valuable producer of the alloy, said in June
that it terminated a contract that it signed in 2007 to build a
$2.1 billion mine in  Bolivia  after failing to secure land and
natural gas.  Liberia, devastated by civil wars from 1989 to 2003 that
killed an estimated 250,000 people, is recovering under Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, a Nobel laureate who became the nation’s first
female president in 2006. The economy almost doubled to $1.1
billion in 2012 from $600 million in 2006, according to the
central bank.  The West African nation, where ArcelorMittal and OAO
Severstal operate iron ore mines, is in the process of changing
its old mining policies to boost investments.  “The best strategy would be to move in gradually, develop
part of the project, assess risks and start early cash flow,”
said Nirmal Bang’s Daga. “If all things remain positive, go
full steam ahead to complete the plan.”  Total Debt  The strength of the parent, Vedanta, will give Sesa enough
financial flexibility to raise debt financing for capital
expenditure, said Mumbai-based Sankalp Baid, an analyst at  India 
Ratings & Research, a local unit of Fitch Ratings.  Net debt at Sesa was about 40 billion rupees ($743 million)
as on Dec. 31, while cash and equivalent stood at 2 billion
rupees, according to Mukherjee. Total debt rose to a record 43.7
billion rupees in the quarter to Sept. 30, 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Liberia is a new territory for the group and it’s best to
wait and watch how the project progresses,” said Baid.  Sesa’s decision to invest overseas became necessary after
India’s Supreme Court in October suspended extraction in the
western state of Goa pending a probe into violations of mining
norms. The ban followed a similar action in neighboring
Karnataka in August 2011. The court in September allowed opening
of some Karnataka mines, excluding those owned by Sesa.  Ban Hearing  The top court is scheduled to hear the case of Karnataka
mines on Feb. 1.  “In the case of Karnataka, our reclamation and
rehabilitation plan has been approved and we are now hopeful
that we will be allowed to restart mining,” Mukherjee said.
“I’m sure that by March we’ll find some cash inflow from Goa
business also, apart from Karnataka,” he told investors on an
earnings call on Jan. 25.  Agarwal is in the process of combining three group
companies -- Vedanta Aluminium Ltd., Sterlite Industries (India)
Ltd. and Sesa -- to cut costs, revamp debt and boost operational
synergies.  Sesa reported a 28 percent drop in third-quarter profit.
Group net income fell to 4.97 billion rupees in the three months
ended Dec. 31, from 6.92 billion rupees a year earlier, it said
in a statement Jan. 24. The profit was mainly due to its 20
percent share in earnings of unit  Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR)   “We are continuously driving our Liberian project and have
decided to first start at lower capacity for early cash flow,”
Mukherjee said. “Since it’s a new geography we want to start
fast and cover all possible risks and see how the operations
go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  