-- Singapore Office Rents to Rebound as Supply Growth Abates
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-01-30T09:29:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/singapore-s-slowing-office-growth-to-boost-rents-southeast-asia.html
Singapore’s office rents are set to
rebound from their first annual decline in three years as new
supply shrinks and more businesses expand, according to the
 biggest  office property trust in  Asia  outside of  Japan .  Rents in the city are reaching a trough and demand may rise
as the country positions itself as a regional business hub, said
Lynette Leong, chief executive officer of  CapitaCommercial Trust (CCT) ,
Supply for the next three years will be about 0.8 million square
feet a year, down from 1.3 million square feet over the past two
decades, she said.  “Rents are poised for a recovery,” Leong said in an
interview in Singapore on Jan. 24. It’s “a no-brainer that
rents are not going to go down very much further so it’s more
when the rents will turn and to what extent,” she said.  Ranked by the  World Bank  as the easiest place to do
business for a seventh year, the country that’s smaller than  New
York  City is also emerging as Asia’s wealth management center,
driving demand for banking services with an increase of
millionaires. Singapore office rents are the 19th-highest
globally, according to CBRE Group Inc., and are cheaper than
 Hong Kong ,  Tokyo , Beijing and  New Delhi .  CapitaCommercial estimates new demand accounted for 1.5
million square feet to 1.8 million square feet annually in the
past three years, Leong said, without giving a forecast for 2013.  Singapore’s  office rents  fell 0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter, extending the decline in 2012 to 1.3 percent, the
government said on Jan. 25. They climbed 8.4 percent in 2011 and
13 percent in the previous year, government data showed.  Millionaire Households  The country’s millionaire households expanded 14 percent in
2011, according to a Boston Consulting study. The proportion of
millionaire homes in the city of 5.3 million people was 17
percent, the highest in the world, followed by Qatar and  Kuwait .  Additional office space in the past two years came mainly
from the downtown Marina Bay area, with banks including Standard
Chartered Plc and  Barclays (BARC)  Plc taking bigger offices. Standard
Chartered relocated from 11 buildings across the city to one
tower in the new office area, while Barclays moved from six to
two in the district.  Average gross rents of prime office space declined 11
percent in 2012 and could fall 5 percent to 10 percent this year,
Colliers International said in a Jan. 25 report. Leasing rates
climbed 14.6 percent in 2011, the property brokerage said.  New tenants took up 1.9 million square feet of space last
year, a 17 percent drop from the five-year high of 2.3 million
square feet in 2011, Colliers said.  Too Early  “It’s still too early to pinpoint a time for a recovery,”
Chia Siew Chuin, director of research & advisory at Colliers,
said in a phone interview yesterday. “Global economic headwinds
are a concern and there is also a risk of secondary space that
can be returned to the market should occupiers or tenants
relocate to new buildings.”  Singapore’s economy expanded 1.2 percent last year, less
than a quarter of the pace in 2011. Growth is expected to range
between 1 percent and 3 percent this year, based on official
estimates.  The city also became the first in Asia to introduce curbs
on industrial properties. The government on Jan. 11 imposed as
much as 15 percent in stamp duties on sellers of warehouses and
logistics buildings to curb speculation after prices doubled in
the past three years and outpaced the increases in rents.  Raffles Quay Asset Management Pte, which manages office
towers developed jointly by billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s  Cheung
Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) ,  Keppel Land Ltd. (KPLD)  and  Hongkong Land Holdings
Ltd. (HKL) , said most of its buildings are fully leased. Its latest
offering, the third office tower at a Marina Bay development, is
about 77 percent filled, it said.  Rent Stability  “We see stability in rents in the market,” Warren Bishop,
chief executive officer of Raffles Quay Asset, said in an
interview. “Given the amount of supply coming online, I don’t
think it’s going to go down any further. Still, with the overall
economic situation, it’s hard to predict it going up, because we
have to be realistic that the situation in America and  Europe  is
affecting the world economy.”  Singapore ’s office vacancy rate has been falling since it
reached a five-year high of 13 percent in the third quarter of
2010, according to  government data . It fell to 9.4 percent in
the  fourth quarter  last year, the lowest since the end of 2008.  CapitaCommercial said it filled 97.2 percent of its
buildings in the fourth quarter, keeping its vacancy rate lower
than the industry average. The trust, partly owned by CapitaLand
Ltd., Southeast Asia’s biggest developer, increased its
 distributable income  by 7.4 percent to S$228.5 million ($184.8
million) last year.  The trust, also the biggest office REIT by market value in
Asia after Nippon Building Fund Inc. and Japan Real Estate
Investment Corp., climbed 22 percent in the past six months,
compared with the 8.4 percent gain in the Singapore benchmark
 Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)  The shares climbed 1.2 percent to S$1.645
in Singapore trading today, snapping a four-day decline.  “A lot of companies are not just dependent on the
Singapore GDP, but more the regional economies,” said Leong,
the trust’s CEO. “And the region still looks fine, so we think
that will drive demand for  office space .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  