-- Singer Chases Icahn With Stake in Cheapest Oil Company Hess
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-01-29T14:02:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/singer-chases-icahn-gain-with-stake-in-cheapest-oil-company-hess.html
Billionaire Paul Singer’s best
chance to maximize his potential $800 million investment in  Hess
Corp. (HES)  may be to press for a sale of the whole company after the
oil and natural gas producer exits its refining and storage
businesses.  Hess, which in 80 years developed from a one-truck fuel
deliverer to a global wildcatter that finds and extracts oil
from West Africa to North Dakota, is among the cheapest energy
opportunities in  North America . The New York-based producer
trades at the lowest valuation of any so-called integrated  oil
company , such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Elliott Management Corp., founded by Singer, today proposed
five new Hess board members and called on the company to
consider strategic options including spinning off its Bakken
shale assets. Singer would become the fourth activist investor
in the past year to wrest profit from energy company
restructuring.  “Elliott is trying ultimately to get the value of this
company up, whether through a sale or another means,”  Louis Meyer , a New York-based special situations analyst at Oscar
Gruss & Son Inc. “There are many ways to get a stock price up.
That is one arrow that can be shot. Whether a company has armor
or takes this seriously is another question.”  CVR Refining  Singer’s interest in Hess recalls the decision by  Murphy
Oil Corp. (MUR)  last year to spin off its retail fuels segment after
hedge fund Third Point LLC bought a stake and urged the El
Dorado, Arkansas-based company to shed assets.  Carl Icahn  nearly
doubled his $2 billion investment in  CVR Energy Inc. (CVI)  after
urging the company to sell itself and acquiring an 82 percent
stake through a proxy fight. After failing to find a buyer,
Icahn spun off CVR’s refining assets into a master-limited
partnership on Jan. 16.  Jana Partners LLC bought 19.7 million shares in  Marathon
Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  before the company announced plans to spin off
some of its pipeline assets. Marathon Petroleum rose 89 percent
in 2012, while CVR more than doubled its share price.  Elliott affiliates own 4 percent of Hess’s common stock,
the  investment company  said in a letter to shareholders today.
The stock, which closed yesterday at $62.48, may be worth more
than $126, Elliott said.  Additional Partners  Singer may find the easier path to increasing value is
advocating for a sale of part of Hess’s stakes in oil and gas
fields such as those offshore Ghana or in the North Sea, Gianna Bern, principal of Brookshire Advisory & Research Inc. in
Chicago, said in a telephone interview yesterday. He also might
urge returning more cash to shareholders through share buybacks,
or through a spinoff of the company’s gas station business.  “Bringing in additional partners on those assets or
exiting less efficient businesses are some of the low-hanging
fruit that these investors may pursue,” she said.  Hess, with a market value of $21 billion as of yesterday,
has risen 13 percent in the past year as it closed an
unprofitable refinery and ramped up operations offshore Norway
and in  North Dakota ’s Bakken oil fields. Hess rose 5.1 percent
to $65.69 at 9 a.m. in New York, before the start of regular
trading.  Hess trades at a multiple of 3.1 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, the lowest of
any energy company on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index that has
gasoline stations, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bonds Fall  Fears that Singer’s efforts to increase returns to
shareholders might harm the company’s ability to pay debt drove
down the price of its bonds. Hess’s $1.25 billion of 5.6 percent
notes due February 2041 fell 4.66 cents yesterday to 111.56
cents on the dollar to yield 4.84 percent, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. That’s the biggest decline since the debt
was issued in August 2010.  The cost to protect Hess’s debt from losses climbed to the
highest this year. The credit-default swap contracts, which
typically rise as investor confidence deteriorates, increased
12.9 basis points to 151.7 basis points as of 5:30 p.m.
yesterday in New York, CMA data show.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Those prices imply that the market perceives a 12.6 percent
chance the company will default within five years, up from 11.6
percent before Hess revealed Singer’s plans to take a stake,
according to a standard pricing model maintained by data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Bondholder Concern  The implication of the move by Elliott Associates LP is
that Hess has not moved aggressively enough in its restructuring
efforts,  Phil Adams , a senior analyst at Gimme Credit LLC in
Chicago, wrote in a note to clients yesterday. “The concern for
bondholders would be that Elliott Associates would successfully
agitate for a more aggressive return of cash to shareholders.”  Hess’s quarterly earnings, after adjusting for one-time
items, have declined from a year earlier in four out of the past
five quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Hess,
which reports fourth-quarter results tomorrow, is expected to
earn $1.22 a share, 4.3 percent higher than adjusted earnings a
year ago, according to the average of 21 analysts’ estimates.  Lower Spending  Singer might push Hess to lower its capital spending budget
as a way to make its debt and other obligations more manageable,
Phil Weiss, an analyst at Argus Research in New York, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. Lower spending “reduces the
need to raise cash,” he said. Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer John Hess probably wouldn’t agree to a sale of the whole
company that was founded by his father, Weiss said.  Singer is the founder and president of Elliott Management
which oversees two funds, Elliott Associates and Elliott
International LP, that have $21.5 billion of assets under
management.  Elliott has advocated for a sale recently of software
companies including  Compuware Corp. (CPWR)  and  BMC Software Inc. (BMC) ,
offering last month to buy Compuware outright and adding two
board seats to BMC.  Preemptive Move  Hess responded to Elliott’s interest with an announcement
yesterday of a restructuring plan that included selling its
storage business, closing its last refinery, and refocusing its
spending on developing U.S. oil and gas assets. Exiting refining
would help save $1 billion in costs, Hess said. A sale of its
fuel storage business may fetch as much as $2 billion,  Paul Cheng , a New York-based analyst at  Barclays Plc (BARC) , said yesterday
in a note to investors.  Hess’s restructuring announcement appeared to be an attempt
to deflect pressure from Elliott Associates,  Pavel Molchanov , an
analyst at  Raymond James , wrote yesterday in a note to
investors.  Some analysts also expect more pressure on Hess to spin off
its retail fuels business, which includes more than 1,350 Hess-
branded sites in 16 states along the U.S. East Coast, to focus
the company exclusively on exploration and production.  “We would not be surprised to see Elliott pursue a retail
spinoff, which is a logical step to complete the company’s
transition,” Molchanov wrote. Hess plans to continue its long-
term commitment to the retail and energy marketing business,  Jon Pepper , a spokesman for Hess, wrote yesterday in an e-mail.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is Hess’s financial adviser on the
terminal sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  