-- Singapore Projects 6.9 Million Population as Neighbors Catch Up
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-01-29T07:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/singapore-projects-6-9-million-population-as-neighbors-catch-up.html
Singapore said it will boost its
population by as much as 30 percent by 2030 with more foreigners
in the country as it competes with other Asian nations that have
younger labor forces.  The island’s population may reach as much as 6 million in
2020 from 5.3 million now, and the number of people in the
country smaller than  New York  City may increase to 6.9 million
by 2030, the government said in a white paper released today.
 Gross domestic product  growth may average 3 percent to 4 percent
annually up to 2020, and the economy may expand 2 percent to 3
percent a year in the following decade, it said.  Record-high housing and transport costs, public discontent
over an influx of foreigners and infrastructure strains are
weakening approval for the only party that has ruled Singapore
since independence in 1965. Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s
government is under pressure to placate voters without
disrupting the entry of talent and labor that helped forge the
only advanced economy in Southeast Asia.  “Our population and  workforce  must support a dynamic
economy that can steadily create good jobs and opportunities,”
according to the report published by the National Population and
Talent Division. “Many Asian cities are modernizing rapidly,
and catching up.  Singapore  must continue to develop and upgrade
to remain a key node in the network of global cities.”  The island’s population has jumped by more than 1.1 million
since mid-2004, stoking social tensions as the government used
immigration to make up for a low birth rate. The fertility rate
was about 1.3 children per woman in 2012, and the government
said today it doesn’t expect an improvement to replacement
levels of 2.1 in the short term.  More Foreigners  The government will take in between 15,000 and 25,000 new
citizens and grant about 30,000 permanent-resident permits
annually, it said today in the white paper called “A
Sustainable Population for a Dynamic Singapore.”  “Our dependence on foreign workers is not going to be an
issue that is going to be solved overnight,” said Michael Wan,
a Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse Group AG. “It’s a
multi-year process and the government should push ahead in order
to make a clear stance to businesses that there’s no U-turn when
it comes to the foreign worker policies.”  Ranked the easiest place to do business for seven straight
years by the World Bank, Singapore is competing with lower-cost
neighbors such as Malaysia and  Indonesia  for foreign investment
as an uneven global recovery hurts demand for  exports .  Labor Clampdown  The government is trying to reduce the island’s reliance on
cheap labor and has raised foreign-worker levies and salary
thresholds to slow the inflow of non-Singaporeans. The overseas
labor clampdown has pushed up manpower costs and driven the
jobless rate to a six-quarter low.  The growth rate of Singapore’s workforce will slow to 1
percent to 2 percent a year through 2020, from an average 3.3
percent in the past three decades, today’s report showed.  The government “paid a political price” with the strains
on its infrastructure as a result of a bigger population, Lee
said yesterday. His party lost two by-elections after  returning
to power  in May 2011 with the lowest share of the popular vote
since independence.  The government will add new trains to the subway fleet from
2014 to 2016, it said today. It is also investing in two new
rail lines and extending three existing ones, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 