-- Singh-Led Panel Said to Mull Freeing $16 Billion Oil Investments
-- B y   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-01-29T12:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/singh-led-panel-said-to-mull-freeing-16-billion-oil-investments.html
A panel led by Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh will consider freeing up $16 billion of oil and
gas projects stuck in India’s red tape, overriding the defense
ministry’s objections, two officials with direct knowledge of
the matter said.  The Cabinet Committee on Investment, meeting tomorrow for
the first time after it was formed last month, may unlock 40 oil
and natural gas blocks, the two officials said, asking not to be
identified before a decision. The drilling areas include the KG-
D6 block operated jointly by  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  and  BP Plc (BP/) 
that holds the nation’s biggest gas deposit, the people said.  The blocks were awarded to companies including  Santos Ltd. (STO) 
and  BG Group Plc (BG/)  in auctions that started in 1999 when India
allowed non-state and foreign companies to explore and produce
oil and gas from the nation’s fields to help raise output and
cut a growing import bill. The Ministry of Defence withdrew
approvals for 39 blocks, citing strategic and security reasons,
while the commerce ministry denied clearance to the remaining
one project.  Explorers have spent $13.4 billion on the 40 blocks till
March 31 and another $2.5 billion is likely to be invested in
the next three to four years, they said.  The panel is part of Singh’s efforts to boost spending as
he seeks $1 trillion of investments in highways, ports and power
plants from 2012 to 2017 to spur development in the country,
where the World Bank says more than two-thirds of people live on
less than $2 a day. Singh is seeking to speed up approvals of
infrastructure projects and ease bottlenecks that impede growth
and spur inflation.  Output Slump  Reliance, controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , is
struggling to reverse a slump in gas production from the KG-D6
block in the Bay of Bengal. Output has more than halved in two
years. The Mumbai-based company says the field is more difficult
to produce from than they initially thought. Reliance’s
spokesman Tushar Pania declined to comment.  The explorer sold stakes in KG-D6 and 20 other blocks to
BP,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil producer by market value, in
August 2011. The Ministry of Defence withdrew approvals for
exploration in 16 of these blocks, according to the people.  State-owned Oil & Natural Gas Corp., India’s biggest energy
explorer, has had approvals withdrawn for 21 blocks, according
to the people. Chairman Sudhir Vasudeva didn’t answer two calls
to his mobile phone. Two blocks Santos won off the coast of
Orissa in east  India  in 2007 are also awaiting approval, the
officials said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  