-- Hynix Rises After Quarterly Profit Beats Estimates: Seoul Mover
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-01-30T01:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/sk-hynix-fourth-quarter-profit-beats-estimates-on-mobile-chips.html
SK Hynix Inc. (000660) , the world’s second-
largest maker of computer memory chips, rose the most in four
weeks in Seoul trading after posting fourth-quarter profit that
beat analyst estimates.  Hynix gained as much as 3.1 percent, the biggest advance
since Jan. 2, to 24,950 won and traded at 24,550 won as of 9:49
a.m. Net income in the three months ended Dec. 31 was 163.7
billion won ($151 million), the Icheon, South Korea-based
company said today. That compares with a year-earlier loss of
239.9 billion won and the 120.2 billion-won average of 31
 analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The company returned to an operating profit in the fourth
quarter, from a loss a year earlier, as increased shipments of
chips for mobile devices including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhones helped
offset waning DRAM demand for personal computers. Shipments of
NAND flash memory climbed as customers released new smartphones
and tablets, and demand for handheld devices rose in emerging
markets including  China , Hynix said in a statement.  “SK Hynix has a big presence in China’s mobile chip
market,” said Oh Sang Woo, a Seoul-based analyst at Leading
Investment & Securities. Chinese companies such as  Lenovo Group
Ltd. (992) ,  ZTE Corp. (000063)  and Huawei Technologies Co. “are all showing
fast growth,” he said.  Hynix’s fourth-quarter  operating profit , or sales excluding
the cost of goods sold and administrative costs, was 55 billion
won, compared with a loss of 106.5 billion won a year earlier.
Sales rose 6.5 percent to 2.72 trillion won.  Chinese Customers  Dram shipments climbed “dramatically” in the fourth
quarter on demand for mobile and server products and increased
sales of low-priced tablets in  emerging markets , Hynix said.  Chinese electronics companies buy more than half of Hynix’s
mobile chips, according to Hwang Min Seong, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Samsung Securities Co.  Net income was also boosted by a stronger won, which pared
the repatriated value of Hynix’s dollar-denominated debt. The
Korean currency gained about 4.4 percent against the dollar in
the fourth quarter, the most among major Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Hynix will reduce its capital expenditure this year after
spending 3.85 trillion won in 2012, Lee Myoung Young, head of
the company’s corporate financial division, said on a conference
call. He didn’t provide a specific figure for 2013.  Samsung Electronics Co.’s semiconductor unit, the world’s
biggest producer of memory chips, boosted fourth-quarter
operating profit by 8.4 percent. Sales of DRAM chips for servers
and mobile devices offset a slump in prices for PC DRAM caused
by a global glut and slowing demand, the company said Jan. 25.  DRAM prices have begun rising because of industry
consolidation and the exit of smaller Taiwanese makers.
 Benchmark prices  have climbed about 50 percent since Nov. 30,
according to TrendForce Corp.’s DRAMeXchange, which tracks the
market. That rebound followed a 23 percent drop in the previous
six months that pushed prices below break-even levels.  Worldwide PC shipments  declined 3.2 percent for all of 2012
as consumers shifted to tablets, according to researcher
International Data Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  