-- Smakraft to Build Six Hydropower Plants in Norway in 2013
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-01-29T13:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/smakraft-to-build-six-hydropower-plants-in-norway-in-2013.html
Smakraft AS, majority-owned by
 Norway ’s biggest utility Statkraft AS, plans to build six
hydropower plants this year at a cost of about 270 million
kroner ($49 million).  The plants that will generate electricity by running water
through turbines will have a combined capacity of 25 megawatts,
Rein Husebo, managing director of Bergen-based Smakraft, said by
e-mail. They’ll produce 65 gigawatt-hours of power a year and be
financed through Smakraft’s owners, he said.  Norway generated about 95 percent of its electricity from
hydropower in 2010, according to International Energy Agency
 statistics . Smaller hydropower installations are generally
considered more environmentally friendly as building big dams
and water reservoirs for storage isn’t required.  Small hydro potential in Norway of an estimated 25
terawatt-hours has “considerable” interest from investors,
Husebo said, whose company operates 34 smaller hydropower
plants. Realistically, 4 to 5 terawatt-hours could be built
before 2020, he said.  “The government has established a system to build this and
it’s working well,” the managing director said. “At this stage
we don’t need more from the government.”  Norway and  Sweden  started a common green certificate market
a year ago to spur renewables. Electricity suppliers must get a
certain portion of power from low-carbon sources or by
purchasing green certificates that have a tradable value.
Allowing renewable certificates to trade freely between the
countries helps them meet clean power targets at a lower cost.  Smakraft has 140 projects currently in the planning process
or awaiting concessions, Husebo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  