-- Some MF Global Clients Benefit on U.K. Valuation Date
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-01-29T18:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/some-mf-global-clients-to-benefit-from-u-k-valuation-date-case.html
(Corrects valuation date in first paragraph.)  Some customers of  MF Global Holdings
Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s U.K. unit, including Attestor Value Master Fund LP, will
share an additional $59.1 million after a court said their
insolvency claims against the brokerage should be valued at the
time it collapsed rather than when their positions were
liquidated.  About 370 MF Global clients will benefit from today’s
decision as their total recovery pot increased from $450
million, Judge David Richards said in a ruling in London.
Another 315 investors, with claims totaling $244 million, will
see their pool decrease by $27.9 million, he said.  MF Global in 2011 filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy
when it got margin calls and bank demands for money from its
brokerage after the company invested in distressed European
sovereign debt.  KPMG  LLP, appointed to wind up its U.K. unit, by
March had recovered about $900 million of funds frozen in
customer accounts.  The ruling lifts “the uncertainties relating to the
valuation of client money claims,” Richard Heis, the U.K.
administrator for the broker-dealer at KPMG, said in an e-mailed
statement.  KPMG LLP, asked for valuation guidance at a two-day October
trial in London. Two investors with claims in the administration
were selected to argue for and against the so-called hindsight
principle.  Further Payments  The judge’s decision “will enable us to eliminate certain
reserves which will enable further payments to be made to client
money creditors,” Heis said.  Attestor, a distressed-debt fund registered in the Cayman
Islands, would see its claim increase by about $3 million if
valued on Oct. 31, 2011, as a result of today’s ruling.  Arguing the other side at the trial was Schneider Trading
Associates Ltd., whose claim would lose about $500,000 in value
if tied to the Oct. 31, 2011, date and not when the securities
were liquidated days later.  Lawyers representing Attestor and Schneider didn’t respond
to calls seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is In the Matter of MF Global UK Limited (in
special administration) and In The Matter of the Investment Bank
Special Administration Regulations 2011, High Court of Justice,
Chancery Division, Case No: 9527-2011  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in  London  at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  