-- Sorry, but Europe’s Economic Crisis Is Not Over
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-29T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/sorry-but-europe-s-economic-crisis-is-not-over.html
Financial conditions in  Europe  are
improving, and the sense of imminent doom has lifted. Some
commentators are daring to say that Europe’s economic crisis is
over. We think they speak too soon.  It’s true that some crucial indicators look better.
Governments that were on the brink of bankruptcy last summer
have seen bond yields fall to supportable levels. Six months
ago, Spanish 10-year bonds paid more than 7 percent; today the
rate is 5.1 percent.  Italy ’s 10-year borrowing cost has fallen
from 6.5 percent to 4.2 percent. And this week, Italy sold 8.5
billion euros ($11.5 billion) of six-month bills at 0.731
percent, the lowest rate in almost three years.  In another sign of returning normalcy, the  European Central
Bank  just announced that some of the cheap emergency loans it
extended to the region’s banks last year would be repaid early.
The funds were needed because the banks’ ability to roll over
debt was in doubt. Early repayment suggests the banks think
access to funds through standard channels isn’t going to be a
problem.  That’s encouraging. It’s also a reminder that financial
calamities have a self-validating character. When confidence
evaporated last year,  interest rates  rose and sustainable fiscal
positions became unsustainable. Now that the mood has improved,
rates have fallen and public debts look almost affordable.  Unresolved Issues  Unfortunately, what confidence can give, lack of confidence
can just as suddenly take away -- and that’s especially true if
the underlying issues haven’t been resolved. In Europe, they
haven’t. In some ways, conditions are getting worse.  The  International Monetary Fund ’s economic forecasters have
just marked down Europe’s prospects yet again. They expect the
euro area’s output to shrink 0.2 percent this year (a reduction
of 0.3 percentage point since the previous forecast) and to
recover very slowly in 2014.  Such a dismal figure is more flattering than reality
because it merges the European Union’s stronger and weaker
countries in a single statistic. The IMF expects  France  and
 Germany  to grow, if barely, in 2013, but the outlook for  Spain 
and Italy is still awful. Output is expected to shrink 1.5
percent in Spain (where unemployment already stands at more than
25 percent) and 1 percent in Italy (where the jobless rate is
almost 11 percent). Prospects that dire call into question
Europe’s political stability and that puts recovery itself in
doubt.  Thanks to the single currency, there isn’t a lot that
monetary policy can do to lift the region’s struggling
economies. Fiscal policy continues to widen rather than narrow
intra-European disparities. The region’s weak economies, under
pressure to improve their finances, are still trying hard to
curb public spending and raise revenue, which adds to the
contraction.  The weaklings’ banks are under greater-than-average stress
as well -- early repayment of ECB loans notwithstanding -- so
their households and companies struggle to get credit.  The contrast with the U.S. is stark and shows no sign of
diminishing. Europe has suffered a worse decline in output, a
sharper rise in unemployment, a milder monetary-policy response,
a counterproductive fiscal-policy response and severe country-
specific setbacks. In the EU, national boundaries still inhibit
the ability of the economy’s supply side to bounce back -- by
impeding labor mobility, for instance. As a result, the U.S. is
recovering, albeit slowly, and Europe isn’t.  Fiscal Cooperation  To change this, EU leaders should attend to unfinished
business. Even now, fiscal transfers from strong economies to
weak would help soften the economic cycle and lessen the
shocking disparities in output and employment across the EU.
More flexible labor markets are also vital. And the just-
proposed banking union, together with better regulation, would
strengthen financial markets and help make the recent
improvement in confidence more durable.  In these and other areas, however, Europe’s governments
continue to dither. The easing of crisis conditions has a
downside: It accommodates their tendency to act only when forced
to. Last summer’s moves by the ECB, including the relaunching of
the euro -- as its chief,  Mario Draghi , put it last week -- gave
Europe’s leaders breathing space. They would be fools to waste
it.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 