-- Sourcefire Slumps After VMware Forecast: Washington Mover
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-01-29T21:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/sourcefire-slumps-after-vmware-forecast-washington-mover.html
Sourcefire Inc. (FIRE) , a cybersecurity
provider that works with private companies and government
agencies, fell the most in more than three months after software
maker  VMware Inc. (VMW)  projected sluggish federal government demand.  Sourcefire, based in Columbia,  Maryland ,  dropped  6.9
percent to close at $41.84 in  New York , its biggest one-day
decline since Oct. 17.  VMware  fell  the most in four years today after forecasting
sales that trailed analysts’ estimates, hurt by lower demand
from corporate and government customers. The forecast prompted
concern among investors about Sourcefire, said Frederick Ziegel,
an analyst with Topeka Capital Markets Inc. in New York.  “If someone talks about weak federal spending, it tends to
get thrown in that bucket,” Ziegel said in an interview.  U.S. federal and state government agencies accounted for 28
percent of Sourcefire’s revenue in the quarter that ended Sept.
30, according to filings.  Ziegel said he is maintaining his hold  rating  on the stock
because Sourcefire produces security solutions that remain in
demand even when the government abstains from other software
investments.  “Security is a very top-of-mind subject in the government
these days,” Ziegel said. “It is something that’s not
postponable.”  Sourcefire is  scheduled  to report earnings for the fourth
quarter of 2012 after the market close on Feb. 21.  VMware, based in  Palo Alto , California, dropped 22 percent
to close at $77.14. The stock advanced 13 percent last year
compared with a 46 percent increase for Sourcefire and a 13
percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net  