-- South Africa Stocks Rise to Record as Rand Rout Boosts Miners
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2013-01-29T15:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/south-africa-stocks-rise-to-record-as-rand-rout-boosts-miners.html
South African stocks rose, sending
the  benchmark index  to a record high, as the world’s worst-
performing currency this year boosted shares in mining companies
that pay costs in rand and generate sales in dollars.  The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  advanced 0.1 percent to
close at 40,652.96 in Johannesburg.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the
country’s biggest mining investor, climbed 2.2 percent after
saying it will write down $4 billion of the value of its Minas-
Rio iron-ore project in Brazil, at the low end of market
estimates, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s biggest mining company, jumped 0.9 percent.  The rand has declined 6.2 percent this year after  Fitch
Ratings  downgraded the nation’s credit rating on Jan. 10 amid
labor unrest in the mining and agricultural industries. Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  cut the country’s rating
late last year. The weaker rand boosts the value of shares in
companies that earn part of their profit offshore.  “All these recent highs are definitely being driven by the
weaker rand pushing the rand-hedge stocks up,” Greg Katzenellenbogen, a director of Sanlam Private Investments in
Johannesburg, said by phone. “You have also seen a big
turnaround in Anglo after the write-off.”  Capital expenditure for the Minas-Rio project will increase
to $8.8 billion, if a risk contingency of $600 million is used
in full, London-based Anglo said in a statement.  Anglo Rally  The cost increase is “lower than the market feared,”
Fraser Jamieson, a London-based analyst at JPMorgan Securities
Plc, wrote in a note to clients. “A $4 billion post-tax
writedown is also toward the lower end of expectations.”  Anglo has advanced 5.2 percent this year after a 12 percent
decline in 2012. Positive economic data out of China is boosting
resources stocks, Katzenellenbogen said. The Johannesburg bourse
may rise a further 15 percent this year if the rand remains
weak, making dual-listed shares and other rand-hedge stocks
attractive to local investors, he said.  The preliminary reading of China’s  Purchasing Managers ’
Index was 51.9 this month, according to a Jan. 24 statement from
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. That compares with a
51.5 final reading for December and the 51.7 median estimate of
17 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  