-- SPT Energy Expects Low Subsidies, Rules to Hinder China Shale
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2013-01-29T03:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/spt-energy-expects-low-subsidies-rules-to-hinder-china-shale.html
SPT Energy Group Inc. (1251) , a Chinese
oilfield services company, said inadequate government subsidies
and policies may slow development of shale gas in  China , the
biggest holder of reserves.  “Depending on the subsidy policy to encourage development
won’t be enough,” Wang Guoqiang, chairman of the Beijing-based
company, said in an interview. “More incentives need to be
introduced.”  SPT Energy has boosted spending in central  Asia  in the
event that drilling in China is slower than expected. The
Ministry of Finance said in November that 0.4  yuan  (6 U.S. cents)
would be given for each cubic meter of gas developed to target
60 to 100 billion cubic meters of annual output by 2020.  The 2020 target is “unrealistic,”  Neil Beveridge , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said this month in a
report. He’s forecasting 30 billion cubic meters of commercial
production by the end of the decade.  SPT Energy, whose shares have surged almost threefold in
 Hong Kong  in the past year, rose 2 percent to HK$3.50 at 11:07
a.m. local time.  China’s natural-gas consumption will increase fourfold by
2030 to 600 billion cubic meters a year, accounting for 30
percent of global growth in gas demand, Wood Mackenzie Ltd. said
June 6. The nation’s “ambitious” target for 2020 may be
delayed by the need for better understanding of its shale
formations and insufficient technical know-how, supply-chain
services and infrastructure, according to the consultant.  Difficult Phase  The key to meeting the 2020 target is first meeting a goal
of producing 6.5 billion cubic meters by 2015, as initial
development will be the most difficult phase, Wang said
yesterday. SPT Energy provided hydraulic fracturing services for
two wells in Sichuan last year and plans to work on 14 wells in
2013.  “In the U.S., there was already a system in place for rule
making and policy development,” Wang said. “China only started
thinking about consulting with companies and reforming policy in
reaction to shale gas, so this is definitely a challenge.”  Oilfield services may grow at an annual rate of 14 percent
in central Asia and at about 9 percent in China, Wang said. SPT
Energy is also expanding in the  Middle East  and is in talks with
several Australian oil and gas producers in an effort to expand
its customer base, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  