-- Steinbrueck Hits Reset in German Election Campaign After Gaffes
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2013-01-30T12:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/steinbrueck-hits-reset-in-german-election-campaign-after-gaffes.html
Social Democratic candidate  Peer Steinbrueck  is hitting the reset button in his campaign to
unseat German Chancellor Angela Merkel.  As the candidate for a party with its roots in the 19th
century labor movement, Steinbrueck, a former finance minister,
has created waves with comments focused on his own wallet.  “He himself said that some of his comments have not been
very lucky,” Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the parliamentary leader
of the party known by its German acronym SPD, told reporters at
a party retreat in Potsdam Jan. 28. “We should go back to
discussing the SPD’s themes of social justice which are also
Steinbrueck’s themes.”  Since starting his campaign in late 2012, the Social
Democrat has said he avoids wine that costs less than 5 euros
($6.72) a bottle and that the chancellor’s salary of 220,000
euros a year was too low.  “He’s very ostentatious in everything but traditional SPD
values,” Joerg Forbrig, an analyst at Berlin bureau of the
German Marshall Fund of the United States, said in an interview.
“Steinbrueck cannot but be seen as problematic by traditional
SPD members.”  In the national campaign before the vote likely to be held
Sept. 22, the SPD polled 25 percent, down two points from when
Steinbrueck was elected as party candidate in December, a Forsa
survey for Stern magazine showed today. Merkel’s Christian
Democratic bloc was at 40 percent.  Preferred Partners  The Greens, Steinbrueck’s preferred partner, had 15
percent, according to the poll, and Merkel’s Free Democratic
ally was at 4 percent, below the 5 percent threshold needed to
enter parliament. That means neither Merkel’s bloc nor the SPD
would have a majority with its favored coalition partner.  SPD leaders unveiled a campaign program this week aimed at
narrowing the income divide, with proposals to increase taxes
for high-income earners and to expand affordable housing and
all-day elementary schools.  “I’m all for people with my income paying more taxes,”
Steinbrueck said in an interview published today with the weekly
Die Zeit. “I consider it just.” Asked about the effect of his
comments on the polls, Steinbrueck said he may have to abstain
from irony for the time being.  Steinbrueck, 66, who served as Merkel’s finance minister in
her so-called grand coalition from 2005 to 2009, played a
frontline role in fighting the global financial crisis and was a
staunch opponent of tax evasion. Yet his reputation as a crisis
manager has been overshadowed by faux pas.  ‘Chaos Candidate’  German news magazine Focus published a cover story on Jan.
7 with a photo-montage of Steinbrueck as a bloodied boxer
titled: “The chaos-candidate --  has Steinbrueck knocked himself
out? ” News magazine Der Spiegel on the same day ran a cover-
story titled: “ Why does Steinbrueck make so many mistakes? ”  What the candidate says was a “bad start” began with his
financial disclosures. Steinbrueck declared he had earned 1.25
million euros by giving 89 speeches since 2009 at companies and
banks including Deutsche Bank AG and JP Morgan Chase & Co. He
underlined that he’d also given 237 non-paid speeches since
leaving the Finance Ministry.  “It doesn’t quite fit the role of an SPD chancellor
candidate to be a millionaire, earning substantial amounts
speaking at banking events,” said Oskar Niedermayer, a
political scientist at Berlin’s Free University. “People doubt
Steinbrueck is the right person to credibly represent the SPD’s
key themes of social justice and defense of the little guy’s
interests.”  Speech Canceled  Steinbrueck  canceled  a Dec. 6 speech at  Bank Sarasin & Cie
AG (BSAN)  after Sueddeutsche Zeitung reported that the Swiss private
bank was being investigated by German prosecutors for possible
tax evasion. Bank Sarasin spokesman Benedikt Gratzl said “there
are no indications that the bank did anything wrong.”
Steinbrueck’s move came as he and other SPD leaders made tax
justice a major election theme.  “He has not stopped talking about money, his money and
whether he has an erotic relationship to money,” said Daniel
Friedrich Sturm, who published a Steinbrueck  biography  last
year. “This has cost him sympathy.”  Closed-door meetings Steinbrueck held with voters at their
homes backfired after a Twitter Inc. user noticed on January 15
that his first visit was to the family of an employee of an SPD
parliament member.  Money aside, his comments may hamper his effort to topple
the country’s first woman leader.  Steinbrueck has tried to explain Merkel’s lead by saying
she profits from a “woman’s bonus” and that female voters are
impressed “Merkel made it in a man’s world, seems unpretentious
and has a modest appearance.”  Steinbrueck backs quotas for women to close the gender gap
in boardrooms, yet SPD members have criticized the absence of
women on his campaign team.  “I strongly assume that Peer Steinbrueck will at least
include as many women as men in his shadow cabinet,” Agnes
Allroggen-Bedel, vice-chair of the Working Group of Social
Democratic Woman, was cited by Bild newspaper as saying.  Even when his party won a regional vote in Lower Saxony on
Jan. 20, Steinbrueck initially took responsibility for what exit
polls first said was an SPD defeat before a final vote count
gave the SPD and Greens a single-seat majority.  “There was no tailwind from Berlin,” Steinbrueck said on
the election night. “I recognize I have a certain
responsibility for it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Berlin at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  