-- Sumitomo Mitsui Leads Megabanks Higher on Earnings: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2013-01-29T03:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/sumitomo-mitsui-leads-megabanks-higher-on-earnings-tokyo-mover.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) 
led gains in Japanese banking shares, rising the most in more
than four months on speculation the country’s stock-market rally
boosted earnings last quarter.  Japan ’s second-biggest bank by market value jumped as much
as 5.1 percent in  Tokyo  trading, the biggest intraday advance
since Sept. 14, and traded 4.1 percent higher at 3,440 yen at
the lunch break. It was the fourth-biggest gainer on the  Nikkei
225 Stock Average (NKY) , which rose 0.6 percent.  The rebound in stocks, fueled by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s pledge to stimulate the economy, probably helped banks
make up some of the losses they incurred on their equity
holdings in the fiscal first half, said analysts at UBS AG and
BNP Paribas SA. Signs are emerging that domestic lending is
recovering, with  loans  at city banks climbing for the first time
in three years in December.  “Megabanks look attractive to investors given the recent
rally in the stock market,” said Shinichi Ina, a Tokyo-based
analyst at UBS. “That’s cutting impairment losses tied to
banks’ shareholdings as well as pushing up their sales of mutual
funds and spurring income at their brokerage units.”  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , the country’s biggest
bank, increased 3.6 percent to 496 yen after earlier gaining 4.4
percent, the most since Jan. 4. Mizuho, the third-largest lender
by market value, advanced 3.5 percent to 176 yen.  Profit Boost  Sumitomo Mitsui may tomorrow report net income rose to more
than 500 billion yen ($5.5 billion) in the nine months ended
Dec. 31, the Nikkei newspaper said today. That compares with 411
billion yen a year earlier.  Mitsubishi UFJ’s nine-month profit also exceeded 500
billion yen, and Mizuho’s totaled about 400 billion yen, the
newspaper reported, without saying where it got the information.
Mizuho is scheduled to post earnings on Jan. 31 and Mitsubishi
UFJ will do so on Feb. 1.  “We expect third-quarter profit boosts from stock
impairment charge reversals, ongoing low credit costs, and bond
trading profits,” Toyoki Sameshima, an analyst at BNP Paribas
in Tokyo, wrote in a note dated yesterday.  Sumitomo Mitsui  is a “top pick” among Japanese banks,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst Katsunori Tanaka said today. He
cited the bank’s expansion of overseas loans and consumer
finance business as well as improved earnings at its SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. brokerage unit.  The Nikkei 225 climbed 17 percent last quarter as Abe’s
 Liberal Democratic Party  won an election on a campaign to weaken
the yen and end more than a decade of  deflation  with fiscal
stimulus and monetary easing. The central bank last week adopted
a 2 percent inflation target and promised open-ended asset
purchases starting next January.  “We’ve been optimistic about banks as they’re relatively
cheap and have opportunities to grow abroad,” said Tamiji Shinada, executive director of investment research at Nomura
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Plus, they will get a boost from
reflation hopes on the back of bold monetary easing by the  Bank
of Japan. (8301) ”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  