-- Supervalu Sets Rate on $2.4 Billion Loan for Cerberus Sale
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2013-01-29T20:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/supervalu-sets-rate-on-2-4-billion-loan-for-cerberus-sale.html
Supervalu Inc. (SVU) , the third-largest
U.S. grocery chain, set the rate it will pay on $2.4 billion of
loans to support the sale of five supermarket chains to a
Cerberus Capital Management LP-led investor group.  A six-year, $1.5 billion term loan, that won’t have
financial-maintenance covenants, will pay interest at 5.75
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate
with a 1.25 percent minimum, said a person with knowledge of the
matter. Supervalu, based in  Eden Prairie , Minnesota, may sell
the debt at 98.5 cents on the dollar, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because terms are private.  Lenders to the term portion are offered one year of 101
soft-call protection, the person said, meaning that Supervalu
will have to pay one-cent more than face value to reprice the
debt in its first year.  Reuters Plc reported pricing on the  term loan  earlier
today.  The financing also includes a $900 million asset-based
revolving line of credit that will begin paying interest at 2
percentage points more than Libor, according to a regulatory
filing yesterday.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Credit Suisse AG, Morgan Stanley,
Bank of America Corp. and Barclays Plc are arranging the term
piece, and lenders must let the banks know by the week of Feb.
11 whether they will participate in the deal, according to the
company.  Wells Fargo & Co . provided the asset-based revolver.  Proceeds from the debt will be used to replace a $1.65
billion asset-backed  credit line , an $846 million term portion
and to refinance $490 million of 7.5 percent notes that come due
in November 2014, according to a Jan. 10 statement.  Albertsons, Acme  Supervalu is selling its Albertsons, Acme, Jewel-Osco,
Shaw’s and Star Market stores and related pharmacies to AB
Acquisition LLC, an affiliate of a Cerberus-led investor group,
in a transaction valued at $3.3 billion, according to the
statement.  Mike Siemienas , a spokesman for Supervalu, said the company
declined to comment beyond what’s been made public in the Jan.
10 statement or earnings call.  Kroger Co. (KR) , based in Cincinnati, is the largest U.S. grocer
and Pleasanton, California-based  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  is the second-
biggest.  In a revolving line of credit, money may be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a term loan it can’t. An asset-backed loan
is secured by a company’s receivables and inventory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 