-- Super Bowl Party Bill Leaves NFL’s Ravens, 49ers at a Loss
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-01-29T20:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/super-bowl-celebration-bill-leaves-nfl-s-ravens-49ers-at-a-loss.html
New Orleans is awash in money this
week, with an estimated $185 million changing hands during the
run up to the Super Bowl.  The Baltimore Ravens and  San Francisco 49ers  will be among
those spending more than they are making, according to
executives from the teams playing for the National Football
League championship on Feb. 3.  “It’s a very significant bill,”  Ravens President Dick
Cass  said in an interview. “You lose money. But there are long-
term benefits that pay off later. Hey, we work hard all year
long to go to the Super Bowl. I don’t think anybody would trade
off a short-term loss for winning a Super Bowl.”  Neither the Ravens, owned by  Stephen Bisciotti , nor the
49ers, owned and co-chaired by  Denise and John York , would say
exactly how much they will spend or what they expect their
shortfalls to be, though past Super Bowl participants said it
can be at least a few million dollars. PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLC said this week the game will generate $185 million in direct
spending for  New Orleans .  During the first two rounds of the playoffs, the NFL pays
the home team about $681,000. The visiting team gets the cash-
equivalent of 80 first-class roundtrip tickets to the game, plus
$619,000. That visiting team’s payout increases to $681,000 for
the divisional round.  In the conference championship, the home team gets the same
reimbursements plus $1.05 million, and the visiting team gets
the cash equivalent of 85 first-class tickets and the same
amount.  For the Super Bowl, each team is reimbursed for
transportation expenses equal to 200 first-class airfares, and
the winner gets $4.3 million while the runner-up gets $3.2
million.  Lifetime Extravaganza  Super Bowl appearances are rare so teams usually take their
entire football and business staffs, plus their families. They
also host clients and prospective business partners, the
executives said.  That leaves the team paying for airfares, hotels, game
tickets, numerous reception parties, gift baskets for their
guests, and then there are the postgame parties -- win or lose -
- with live entertainment.  “It’s all about class; you want to do it right,” said San
Francisco 49ers  President Gideon Yu , a former chief financial
officer at  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and YouTube Inc.. “It’s an opportunity
for the organization to show its appreciation to its employees
for all their hard work, but also to send a message to
prospective business partners about who we are as an
organization.”  Ticket Prices  While the teams will lose money in the short term, a Super
Bowl appearance positions them to increase the price of tickets,
club seats, suites and sponsorships in the coming months. The
 New York  Giants, winner of last year’s Super Bowl, haven’t
increased ticket prices since moving into MetLife Stadium three
years ago and selling personal seat licenses for the first time.
The licenses are a one-time expense to fans that are required to
purchase season tickets. Sponsorship deals typically are
staggered so they don’t all expire at once; a Super Bowl’s
affect on them can be limited.  Co-owner John Mara declined an interview request. The team
hasn’t announced its pricing for the 2013 season.  The players get their Super Bowl shares from the NFL; teams
pay any other performance bonuses they may have in their
individual contracts. Ravens players, who played one more
postseason round than their counterparts on the 49ers, have made
$84,000 so far. The Niners made $62,000. The Super Bowl
champions will earn an additional $88,000 per player, while the
losers get $44,000.  Though the Ravens and 49ers are keeping their postgame
party plans secret for now, the organizations’ owners and
executives who ran the franchises in previous years say the
parties and gifts get swanky.  Daily Gifts  When the Ravens beat the  New York Giants  in the 2001 Super
Bowl in Tampa,  Florida , now deceased team owner Art Modell
chartered three jets for players and their families, hired a
band and served lobster and shrimp to more than 800 guests. Each
day, players, coaches, cheerleaders and other employees found
gifts including video cameras, digital cameras and embroidered
sweatsuits delivered to their hotel rooms.  The Ravens’ opponents, the Giants, spent about $2.5 million
for bonuses to coaches, administrators and others who work for
them, according to the team.  When the San Francisco 49ers beat the  Denver Broncos  in the
1990 Super Bowl in New Orleans, then-49ers owner Eddie DeBartolo Jr. had some of the city’s most prominent chefs prepare local
cuisine for 1,000 guests at a post-game party.  “It was Trumpesque,” then president Carmen Policy said,
invoking the name of the Trump Hotels & Casino Resorts Inc.
Chairman  Donald Trump .  Five Wins  The 49ers didn’t skimp during the 1980s and 1990s, when the
team won five  Super Bowls  under DeBartolo.  When the 49ers defeated the  San Diego Chargers  for the
title in 1995 in Miami, the team spent $1.8 million more for
direct expenses than the league provided, plus an additional $2
million in bonuses to coaches and other employees, according to
Policy, the 49ers president at the time.  ’Like Kings’  David Modell, the Ravens’ president in 2001 and the son of
Art Modell, says the team treated its extended family “like
kings” at the 2001 Super Bowl. The Ravens beat the New York
Giants that year, 34-7.  “It wasn’t exactly a  Dennis Kozlowski  special, but it was
a pretty good party,” Modell says, referring to the former  Tyco
International Ltd. (TYC)  chief executive officer who threw a $2
million birthday party for his wife in Sardinia.  “It was attitudinal: We’re here to be champions,” Modell
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  