-- U.K. Aids France by Boosting Mali Support Force
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-29T15:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/u-k-aids-france-by-boosting-mali-support-force.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  is set
to deploy as many as 200 British military personnel to West
Africa to help train a regional intervention force for  Mali , in
a further deepening of U.K. involvement in the campaign against
Islamist militants.  Cameron’s spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray, told reporters
in  London  that the trainers would be in addition to as many as
40 military personnel that Britain is offering to contribute to
a European Union mission to build up the Malian army. That would
take the total number of U.K. soldiers involved in the operation
to more than 300.  “I would describe it as doing what we can to support the
French intervention,” Gray said, when asked if the additional
deployments represent “mission creep” by British forces. “We
have been very clear about our position” that U.K. troops will
not assume a combat role.  France  has deployed 2,500 soldiers and West African
countries are sending an initial 3,300 to Mali to help clear the
north of the country of Islamist forces. Western donors today
pledged more than $450 million to support the African operation
at a meeting in  Addis Ababa .  In addition, the U.K. has offered a roll-on, roll-off
ferry to help transport heavy equipment to the French force.
Britain will also allow allies such as the U.S to fly air-to-air
refueling missions from U.K. airbases in support of French
combat troops.  ‘Mission Creep’  “The public are wary and weary of conflict as a
consequence of recent history,” the opposition  Labour Party ’s
defense spokesman,  Jim Murphy , told lawmakers. “There will be
worries about mission creep and the safety of U.K. trainers.”  Cameron is under pressure to show he is not overstretching
Britain’s military after cutting the regular army to 82,000
personnel from 102,000 by 2020.  Britain and France signed new treaties on defense co-
operation in 2010, allowing spending cuts while seeking to
retain global military clout. Today’s announcement shows that
Britain is “showing willing” toward the French, according to
Michael Codner, director of military science at the  Royal United
Services Institute , a research body, in London.  “While I accept what the prime minister intends now, about
not involving British troops in a combat role, there is always
the possibility of an attack on forces there,” Codner said in a
telephone interview.  Asked if the deployment may amount to mission creep by the
British, Codner replied: “I wouldn’t jump to that conclusion,
but what if military hostages are taken for instance? Then we
would have to start getting them out.”  ‘Working Relationship’  The deployment announced today is “an opportunity for us
to demonstrate the validity of that working relationship with
France” Defense Secretary Philip Hammond told lawmakers. France
had been clear it intended a short mission, Hammond said.  About 90 U.K. personnel are already committed to the
region. A Royal Air Force Sentinel surveillance aircraft and two
C-17 military transport planes are operating in support of the
French mission, with the deployment of one of the C-17s set to
be extended by three months.  Gray told reporters that an offer to establish a joint
Anglo-French logistics headquarters in Mali had not been taken
up by French President  Francois Hollande .  The U.K. will donate 3 million pounds ($4.7 million) to the
African force and 2 million pounds to Mali to help secure the
country’s stability, Hammond told lawmakers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  