-- U.K. to Ease Way for Consumers to Sue Over Price-Fixing
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-29T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/u-k-to-ease-way-for-consumers-to-sue-over-price-fixing.html
The U.K. government, seeking further
ways to stimulate economic growth, will make it easier for
groups of consumers and small companies to take legal action
against firms that act in an anti-competitive way.  Business Minister Jo Swinson said today that instances of
price-fixing or imposing unfair trading terms are damaging
business and announced a fast-track system in the courts for
claimants. Businesses that want to offer compensation
voluntarily will be able to do so through collective settlement
and will be protected from expensive and lengthy legal action,
she said.  “Competition is one of the great drivers of growth; it
keeps our prices low and our businesses innovating,” Swinson, a
Liberal Democrat, said in an e-mailed statement. “This is why
it’s important that where there are businesses who abuse their
position in the market, those who have been affected can take
appropriate action.”  The business department cited hypothetical examples of
price-fixing the move is meant to tackle. Under one scenario, if
a number of airlines began to fix prices of fuel surcharges and
all consumers affected paid 50 pounds ($80) more for a ticket
than they should have, they could be included in a collective
action to recoup the money for each individual, it said.  The changes were announced in the government’s response to
a consultation paper that sought to improve the way the U.K.
helps individuals or businesses challenge anti-competitive
practices in court. Appropriate representative bodies will be
able to take collective action in court, and groups of consumers
or businesses will automatically be included.  If people don’t want to be part of the claim they will have
to opt out. “Frivolous” claims will not be allowed, the
business department said, adding that no-win, no-fee legal
actions also won’t be permitted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  