-- U.S. Seeks Criminal Charges in RBS Libor Settlement, WSJ Reports
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-01-29T07:29:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/u-s-seeks-criminal-charges-in-rbs-libor-settlement-wsj-reports.html
U.S. authorities are seeking a
guilty plea to criminal charges from  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  as part of a 500 million-pound ($785 million)
settlement of an interest rate rigging probe, the Wall Street
Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter.  RBS executives are resisting any guilty plea on concern it
could increase the Edinburgh-based bank’s exposure to litigation
and lead clients to cut off activity, the newspaper said. A
final figure has yet to be agreed upon and the deal could be
completed within the next two weeks, it said.  A $785 million fine would be the second largest levied by
regulators in their investigation into allegations traders
manipulated submissions used to set the London interbank offered
rate.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest lender, was fined $1.5
billion in December for rate-rigging, exceeding the 290 million
pounds  Barclays Plc (BARC)  paid in June.  U.S. authorities have faced criticism for rarely pursuing
criminal action against big banks, the newspaper said. A UBS
Japan unit agreed to plead guilty in connection with the rate-
rigging investigation last month.  “Discussions with various authorities in relation to Libor
setting are ongoing,” Yuk Min Hui, a Hong Kong-based
spokeswoman for RBS, said in an e-mail. “We continue to co-
operate fully with their investigations.”  U.K. government-owned RBS, which started an internal probe
into Libor rigging in 2010, dismissed four bankers and suspended
at least another three, including Jezri Mohideen, the head of
rates trading for Europe and the Asia-Pacific region, the most
senior employee to be disciplined so far.  Top executives at other banks that are still under
investigation for rate manipulation have held informal talks
about potentially reaching a multibank resolution, the Journal
reported, citing unidentified executives involved in the
discussions. The talks are at an early stage, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  