-- U.S. Debt Gridlock Is Top World Economy Risk: Chart of the Day
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2013-01-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/u-s-debt-gridlock-is-top-world-economy-risk-chart-of-the-day.html
U.S. debt gridlock is the biggest
risk facing the global economy even after the U.S. avoided the
so-called fiscal cliff when Congress reached an agreement on the
budget in early January.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the potential drag on global
output from a deepening of the euro-region debt crisis, a
resurgent U.S. fiscal cliff and slowing growth in China,
according to data compiled by the  United Nations .  The data were collected before President  Barack Obama 
signed a law averting most of the $600 billion in tax increases
and federal spending cuts. Still, the UN report assumed the U.S.
would extend tax relief, Europe would move toward ending its
crisis and China would avoid a “hard landing,” said Pingfan
Hong, chief of global economic monitoring for the UN’s
Department of Economic and Social Affairs.  “The fiscal cliff contained two parts: the extension of
the expiration of a number of tax-relief measures, and that part
has been resolved, or 99 percent of it has been resolved,” Hong
said by phone from  Washington . “But the second major component
is the automatic cut of  government spending  and that risk
remains, that is, the baseline forecast remains valid because we
didn’t assume a full-scale cliff in the baseline.”  The longer-term question of reducing the federal debt
remains unanswered. The U.S. House approved legislation on Jan.
23 to suspend the limit on federal borrowing until mid-May. The
measure now goes to the Senate. Congress faces a March deadline
for $1.2 trillion of automatic spending cuts.  While the  International Monetary Fund  projects 3.5 percent
growth in the world economy this year, its managing director,
 Christine Lagarde , called the recovery fragile and timid on Jan.
26 because the euro region remains prone to a political crisis
and slow decision-making.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  