-- U.S. Mint Silver-Coin Sales Surge After Temporary Suspension
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2013-01-29T17:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/u-s-mint-silver-coin-sales-surge-after-temporary-suspension-1-.html
The  U.S. Mint  resumed sales of
American Eagle silver coins after being suspended for more than
a week because of a lack of inventory.  The Mint sold 1.123 million ounces of the coins yesterday,
 Michael White , a spokesman in Washington, said in a voice mail
left late yesterday in response to questions from  Bloomberg
News . Before the suspension, sales this month totaled 6.01
million ounces, according to data on the Mint’s website. That
compares with 6.107 million ounces in January 2012. White did
not respond to e-mails or a voice mail left today.  Silver futures are up 3.2 percent this month in New York,
after advancing 8.3 percent in 2012, as central banks from the
U.S. to Japan pledged more stimulus measures to boost economic
growth. Global holdings of the metal in exchange-traded funds
rose to an all-time high of 19,699 metric tons on Jan. 18.  “The demand for precious physical metal is surging as the
continued global quantitative easing is leading to  currency
devaluation ,” Jeffrey Sica, who helps oversee more than $1
billion as president of SICA Wealth Management, said in a
telephone interview from Morristown,  New Jersey . “People are
realizing this is one of the best asset-classes to hold.”  On Jan. 17 the Mint said it suspended sales of American
Eagle coins after ‘temporarily’ selling out. Sales of American
Eagle gold coins so far this month are 84 percent higher than
the total for December, according to  data  from the  U.S. Mint ,
heading for the biggest monthly total since July 2010.  Fed Meeting  The  Federal Reserve , starting a two-day meeting today, will
continue with its commitment to asset buying until the first
quarter of 2014, according to a Bloomberg survey of 44
economists. Bullion retreated to a four-month low on Jan. 4
after minutes of a Fed meeting showed some policy makers favored
ending $85 billion in monthly bond purchases this year.  Silver futures for March delivery rose 1.4 percent to
$31.20 an ounce at 11:54 a.m. on the Comex in  New York , heading
for the biggest gain for a most-active contract in two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  