-- U.S. Seeks Sentencing Leniency for Ex-Analyst Karl Motey
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-01-29T23:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/u-s-seeks-sentencing-leniency-for-ex-analyst-karl-motey.html
Karl Motey, a former technology
stock analyst who testified for the government in the insider
trading trials of Doug Whitman and James Fleishman, deserves
leniency when he’s sentenced next week, the government said.  Motey, 48, “played a pivotal role” in the government’s
investigation of the expert networking firm Primary Global
Research LLC, posing as a hedge fund manager seeking illegal
tips from company insiders, prosecutors in the office of U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan  said in a letter to the
sentencing judge yesterday.  Motey secretly recorded more than 400 phone calls and in-
person conversations with more than 50 people in the
government’s insider trading probe, they said. Motey’s
cooperation was key to the government winning court
authorization to wiretap Primary Global’s conference line,
according to the letter.  “The wiretap recordings of PGR clients -- analysts and
portfolio managers at  hedge funds  and investment firms around
the country -- have since led to numerous other significant
insider trading prosecutions and ongoing investigations,” the
prosecutors said in the letter to U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff.  Securities Fraud  Motey pleaded guilty in December 2010 to conspiracy and
 securities fraud . He is scheduled to be sentenced Feb. 4. He
faces a maximum of 20 years in prison on the securities fraud
charge and five for conspiracy. In court papers, Motey asked
Rakoff to sentence him to one year of probation.  Motey admitted getting information from insiders at Marvell
Technology Group Ltd. and United Microelectronics Corp. Motey
and the government agreed that he made as much as $150,000
illegally.  Motey was approached by agents of the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  on the street in April 2009 and immediately said
he would work with the government, prosecutors said in the
letter to Rakoff. His cooperation led directly or indirectly to
20 criminal convictions, they said.  Beginning in May 2009, Motey agreed to pose as the manager
of a hedge fund who wanted to work with Primary Global, based in
 Mountain View ,  California . Working under FBI direction, Motey
told Fleishman, a Primary Global sales representative, that he
was seeking inside information from employees of technology
companies, the government said.  ‘Evade Detection’  “Touting PGR’s ability to secure valuable inside
information in circumstances that would evade detection,
Fleishman facilitated Motey’s communications with a series of
company insiders who did, in fact, provide Motey with inside
information,” the government said.  Motey spent so much time working with investigators that it
became his fulltime job, forcing his wife to return to work to
support the family, prosecutors said.  He spent five days on the witness stand in 2011, testifying
against Fleishman, who was convicted and sentenced to 30 months
in prison.  Motey also testified in the insider trading trial of
Whitman, for whom he had worked as a consultant, telling jurors
he passed illegal tips to Whitman about Marvell. Whitman was
found guilty in August and sentenced on Jan. 24 to two years in
prison.  In a letter to Rakoff made public Jan. 25, prosecutors said
they are seeking leniency for  Roomy Khan , who also testified
against Whitman and separately incriminated Galleon Group LLC
cofounder Raj Rajaratnam. Rakoff is scheduled to sentence Khan
Jan. 31.  The case is U.S. v. Motey, 10-cr-1249, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  