-- U.S. Reaches Deal With Niger to Fight Africa Extremists
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-01-29T20:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/u-s-reaches-deal-with-niger-to-fight-africa-extremists.html
The U.S. and  Niger  reached an
agreement allowing American military personnel to be stationed
in the West African country and enabling them to take on
Islamist militants in neighboring Mali, according to U.S.
officials.  The accord could make it possible for the U.S. to base
unmanned surveillance aircraft there, said one official, adding
that no decision has been made to station the drones. President
 Barack Obama ’s administration doesn’t intend to send combat
troops to Niger, a White House official said.  The pact will allow deployment of U.S. personnel as well as
other military assets in Niger to respond to the terror threat
in the region, a U.S. defense official said. The so-called
status-of-forces agreement grants immunity from domestic laws to
U.S. personnel stationed in the country. The moves come after
 France  began airstrikes in Mali on Jan. 11 and later deployed
ground troops, wresting control of several cities, including
Timbuktu yesterday, from Islamist militants.  European and U.S. leaders have said northern Mali is
turning into a haven for Islamist militants intent on attacking
Western targets.  While the contours of the U.S. military presence are still
being worked out, the deal is intended to increase intelligence
collection, among other purposes, the defense official said. The
officials all asked to not be named in discussing the accord,
which has not been announced.  Establishing Presence  The agreement with Niger has been in the works for more
than a year and isn’t tied to the French actions in Mali,
Pentagon spokesmen  George Little  told reporters today. Still,
agreements of these types can “establish, potentially a
military presence, or at least a presence of U.S. troops in the
region,” he said.  “These agreements tend to be frameworks” and “signal
deeper cooperation with other countries, and we see that
happening with the government of Niger,” Little said.  The  New York  Times reported yesterday on the accord and the
possibility of deploying drones in the country. Asked about that
prospect, Little declined to discuss any specific capability
that might be based in Niger.  Aerial Refueling  The pact comes after the Pentagon announced an agreement on
Jan. 26 to provide aerial refueling support to French troops
battling extremists in  Mali , including militants operating under
the banner of al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, or AQIM.
Together, the accords signal wider U.S. involvement in
confronting terror groups in North  Africa . The U.K. has already
provided transport and surveillance aircraft to help the French
mission.  U.S. Air Force C-17 transports have ferried more than 391
tons of equipment and almost 500 French military personnel into
Mali’s capital Bamako, Little, the Pentagon spokesman, said
today. Air Force tankers started refueling French aircraft
conducting air operations over Mali on Jan. 27, offloading more
than 33,000 pounds of fuel, Little said.  Malian forces yesterday entered Timbuktu, with French
forces encircling the historic city and now hold its airport,
Mali’s army spokesman, Colonel Diarran Kone, said by phone from
the capital, Bamako. The advance follows the capture of Gao,
about 590 miles (950 kilometers) north of Bamako on Jan. 26.  Displaced Persons  At least 11,000 people have been forced from their homes by
the recent fighting, according to the United Nations Office for
the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. About 230,000 have
been displaced since the crisis began, the agency said Jan. 22.  A meeting in  Addis Ababa , organized by the  African Union 
and attended by Malian President Dioncounda Traore and French
Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius, today received pledges of
$455.5 million for an African-led Mali force with funds coming
from the U.S., the European Union and France.  Japan  will spend
$120 million on Mali refugees and security.  If approved, the U.S. base in Niger would likely provide
surveillance for the French-led operation in Mali, the Times
reported. While initially only unarmed drones would fly out of
the base, the site may be used for missile strikes at some point
if the threat worsens, the newspaper said.  General Carter Ham, head of the U.S. military command in
Africa, said the subject was “too operational for me to confirm
or deny,” the Times reported, citing an e-mail it received from
Ham. The Africa Command’s plan still needs approval from the
Pentagon, the White House and officials in Niger, the newspaper
reported.  After Qaddafi  Since the ouster of Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi , which
unleashed a flow of weapons to militants in the region, the
Obama administration has been torn between wanting to avoid
entanglements in the region while warning of the dangers of
advancing Islamist extremism.  The U.S. has shown reluctance to provide weapons or
American troops to the fight in Mali, just as it has largely
sidestepped the civil war in  Syria . U.S. officials say that
shifting alliances among at least four rebel groups in Mali have
made it hard to get a clear picture of the conflict there.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  offered an insight earlier
this month into the Obama administration’s internal
deliberations when he pointed to legal questions being raised
over France’s request for U.S. military help.  “I find that every time I turn around, I face a group of
lawyers,” Panetta told reporters on Jan. 16 in  Rome . The
administration’s legal counsel wanted “to be sure that they
feel comfortable that we have the legal basis to do what we are
being requested to do” in aiding the French, he said.  Those questions were resolved and the U.S. is now providing
airlift, intelligence as well as refueling French military
planes.  French Intervention  The U.S. couldn’t directly aid Mali’s current government,
which was installed through a coup,  Victoria Nuland , a State
Department spokeswoman, said Jan. 15. She said there were no
restrictions on helping allies such as France.  France intervened in Mali on Jan. 11 after Islamist
fighters overran the town of Konna, sparking concern they might
advance toward Bamako. The French Defense Ministry said that
2,500 soldiers have arrived in the landlocked West African
country, which gained independence from France in 1960. African
nations are deploying a force that may total as many as 3,300
troops.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  