-- U.S. Steel Quarterly Outlook Disappoints on Higher Costs
-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-01-29T21:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/u-s-steel-loss-beats-estimates.html
U.S. Steel Corp. (X) , the country’s
largest producer by volume, forecast first-quarter earnings that
were worse than analysts’ estimates as it sees higher scrap
prices and operating costs.  While U.S. Steel predicted a “slight improvement” at its
European and tubular units, the flat-rolled segment will be
close to break-even, the Pittsburgh-based company said in a
statement today. Operating profit will be “comparable” to the
fourth quarter, in which it posted $5 million in earnings, U.S.
Steel said.  Luke Folta, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in  New York , said
in a note that the guidance implies a first-quarter per-share
loss. It looks like earnings will be “far worse” than the
consensus outlook, said  Michelle Applebaum , the managing partner
at Steel Market Intelligence in Chicago. The average of 10
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg is for profit before
on-time items of 26 cents a share.  “We continue to be challenged by uncertain global economic
and steel market conditions,” Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer John Surma said in the statement.  U.S. Steel has struggled to regain profitability since the
U.S. recession that ended June 2009 as the industry suffers from
excess production capacity and imports from  China . The
profitability in  North America  of producing hot-rolled coil, a
benchmark steel product, has slumped 61 percent so far in 2013,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings Beat  U.S. Steel fell 2.2 percent to $23.20 in New York. The
company said its fourth-quarter net loss narrowed to $50
million, or 35 cents a share, compared with $211 million, or
$1.46, a year earlier. The loss excluding a gain from settling a
contract dispute was 41 cents, smaller than the 76-cent average
of 19 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales declined 6.9 percent to $4.49 billion, surpassing the
$4.35 billion average of 13 estimates.  Nucor Corp. (NUE) , the biggest U.S. steelmaker by market value,
also posted fourth-quarter earnings today that beat estimates.
Profit excluding an acquisition-related expense was 45 cents a
share, compared with the 30-cent average of 15 estimates.  The company said first-quarter earnings will be lower than
in the fourth quarter because of an inventory-related expense.
Its operating performance will be little changed in the same
comparison. While construction markets show some improvement,
they are still at “historically anemic levels,” the  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based company said.  Auto Strength  “The strongest end markets continue to be manufactured
goods including automotive, energy and heavy equipment,” Nucor
said in the statement. “High import levels, volatility in raw-
material costs and general economic uncertainty are all factors
that could undermine our expectations.”  AK Steel Holding Corp. (AKS)  said today it sees a “significantly
better” first quarter and 2013 as the  U.S. economy  recovers.
AK’s fourth-quarter loss, excluding pension and tax expenses,
was 30 cents a share, the  West Chester , Ohio-based company said
in a statement. That was narrower than the 35-cent average of 13
estimates.  Nucor rose 0.3 percent to $47.04 and AK declined 1.9
percent to $4.03.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  