-- Huaneng Jumps as Shanghai in Bull Market: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-29T21:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/huaneng-jumps-as-shanghai-in-bull-market-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  climbed a second
day in New York as the  Shanghai  Composite Index entering a  bull
market  bolstered the outlook for stocks amid a recovery in
 Asia ’s largest economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. added 0.9 percent to 100.6 yesterday
for the steepest gain in two weeks.  Huaneng Power International
Inc. (HNP) ,  China ’s top electricity producer, jumped to a five-year
high, while  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC)  gained for the first time in
five days.  New Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc. (EDU)  slid
to the lowest level in three months after posting a second-
quarter loss that was worse than analysts estimated.  The Shanghai Composite gauge of domestic Chinese shares has
rallied 20 percent from a Dec. 3 low, as data showed the
nation’s seven-quarter slowdown ended in the last three months
of 2012. China-focused exchange-traded funds attracted about
$1.2 billion in the first three weeks of 2013 in a record run of
inflows, according to data compiled by EPFR Global.  The gain in the Shanghai market “should be more supportive
for shares listed in the U.S.,” Charlie Awdry, a portfolio
manager for Henderson Global Investors’ 500 million pound
($787.8 million) China Opportunities Fund, said by phone
yesterday from  London . “If you look at the data, the Chinese
economy is performing a little more robustly. If positive
sentiment spreads, that would be good news.”  ETF Climbs  The China-US gauge has rallied 13 percent from a Nov. 15
low. The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
ETF in the U.S., gained 1.4 percent to $41.55 in New York,the
steepest rally in almost four weeks. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  rallied 0.5 percent to a five-year high of 1,507.84 as
companies including Pfizer Inc. reported earnings that beat
analysts’ projections.  Huaneng’s American depositary receipts advanced 3.4 percent
to $38.87, the highest since January 2008. The power producer’s
net income in 2013 is projected to rise 68 percent from a year
earlier, topping most peers, KGI Securities said in a note
yesterday, reiterating the equivalent rating of buy.  The Beijing-based company lowered its interest rate
guidance by 0.25 percentage points to 4 percent for its planned
three-year  yuan  bonds to be issued in  Hong Kong , according to a
person familiar with the matter. It sought to raise as much as
1.5 billion yuan ($240 million) by selling three-year notes.  ‘Sunny Outlook’  Yanzhou Coal, the fourth-largest miner of the fuel in
China, advanced 3 percent to $17.4 after a four-day slump. The
ADRs of the Shandong province-based company traded 1.5 percent
above their Hong Kong shares, the widest premium since Jan. 17.  Oil rose to a four-month high in New York yesterday as
futures for March delivery gained 1.2 percent to $97.57 a
barrel, boosting demand for alternative energy such as coal.  The Chinese economy has a “pretty sunny outlook compared
with other economies globally,” PricewaterhouseCoopers U.K.
Chief Economist John Hawksworth said in an interview with Xinhua
News Agency yesterday, predicting the pace of growth for 2013
will be 7.8 percent, the same as last year.  The Chinese economy expanded 7.9 percent in the last three
months, accelerating after a seven-quarter slowdown, as
government data for December showed retail sales and industrial
production grew at the quickest pace in nine months.  ‘Positive Newsflow’  “More positive newsflow on the Chinese economy is now
being priced in the equities,” Emmanuel Hauptmann, a senior
equities fund manager at Geneva-based Reyl Asset Management SA,
which manages about $1.8 billion, said yesterday by e-mail. The
company’s fund focused on  emerging markets  will increase
holdings in Chinese names, Hauptmann added.  New Oriental, China’s biggest private eduction company,
sank 8.6 percent to $16.36, the lowest level since Oct. 4.  The Beijing-based company reported yesterday a net loss of
$15.8 million for the three months through November, which
exceeded the average estimate of $6.5 million loss of four
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. New Oriental’s sales forecast of
$212.4 million to $220.9 million for the following quarter
compared with analysts’ mean estimate of $218.4 million.  The company also said it will continue trim headcount to
reduce expenses after cutting 1,500 jobs during the quarter
ended in November.  “Operating expenses were way higher than we expected and
that obviously impacted the margins,” Ella Ji, an analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co. in New York, said by phone yesterday. “For
the next one to two quarters things may still be under
pressure.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst Fei Fang yesterday reduced
his  price estimate  for New Oriental to $18.2 from $20, while
Mark Marostica at Piper Jaffray & Co. analyst lowered the price
goal by $2 to $25.  Volatility Decreases  The  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  rose 0.5 percent to 2,358.98
yesterday, the highest close since June 1. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Hong Kong-traded shares slid 0.2 percent to
12,077.87.  Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards strengthened
0.19 percent, the most in two weeks, to 6.3117 per dollar
yesterday in New York, after the currency traded little changed
at 6.2243 a dollar in Shanghai.  Fifty-day volatility  on the China-US gauge fell to 16.7
yesterday, the lowest level since Oct. 31. The  Bloomberg Chinese
Reverse Mergers Index (CHINARTO) , which tracks a basket of companies that
gained U.S. listings after buying firms that already trade,
advanced 0.4 percent to 80.11, the highest level since May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  