-- UBS Told by Federal Judge to Give IRS Data on Wegelin
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-01-29T16:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/ubs-must-give-irs-data-on-wegelin-accounts-u-s-judge-says-1-.html
A U.S. judge said the  Internal
Revenue Service  can demand information from  UBS AG (UBSN)  about U.S.
clients of Wegelin & Co., the Swiss bank that pleaded guilty
this month to conspiring to help cheat the IRS.  U.S. District Judge William H. Pauley III signed an order
in  Manhattan  federal court that authorized the IRS to serve a
summons on UBS, the largest Swiss bank. The tax agency seeks
records of Wegelin’s correspondent account at UBS, according to
the Jan. 25 order announced yesterday.  Those records will allow U.S. authorities to determine who
held assets at Wegelin and other Swiss institutions using the
UBS account, according to U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. Wegelin
admitted on Jan. 3 that it helped U.S. taxpayers hide more than
$1.2 billion in assets from the IRS.  The summons is “the latest step in our efforts to identify
and prosecute U.S. taxpayers who think they can evade their
legal responsibility to pay taxes by secreting their money away
in anonymous offshore accounts at Wegelin and other banks,”
Bharara said in a statement.  Summons Approved  Pauley gave permission to the IRS to serve a so-called John
Doe summons on UBS for accounts held from 2003 to 2011. In a
court petition, Assistant U.S. Attorney Natalie N. Kuehler said
Wegelin held a correspondent account through a UBS office in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . Other Swiss banks also used Wegelin’s UBS
account through “nested” relationships, Kuehler wrote.  UBS will fulfill its legal obligations in the U.S., the
Zurich-based bank said today in a statement. The summons isn’t
for information on UBS clients or for data from  Switzerland , it
said.  “Wegelin used the UBS correspondent account to provide
offshore banking services to dozens of U.S. taxpayers, who the
IRS believes may have failed to report the existence of their
Swiss bank accounts to the IRS and the Department of Treasury,”
Kuehler wrote in a Jan. 25 filing.  Hidden Income  In an indictment last year, prosecutors said that more than
100 U.S. taxpayers conspired with Wegelin and Swiss bankers
Michael Berlinka, Urs Frei and Roger Keller to hide income from
the IRS. Those individuals, who live outside the U.S., were
first indicted in January 2012 and haven’t appeared in court to
answer the charges. The bank held more than $1.2 billion in
assets not declared to the IRS, according to the indictment.  Wegelin and the three bankers wooed U.S. clients fleeing
UBS, the government said. UBS avoided U.S. prosecution in 2009
by admitting it aided  tax evasion , paying $780 million and
handing over data on 250 accounts. It later disclosed
information on about 4,450 more accounts.  Internal Code  By attracting ex-UBS clients, Wegelin opened new undeclared
accounts for at least 70 U.S. taxpayers, according to the
indictment. Most of those accounts were given an internal code
of “BNQ,” indicating the accounts were undeclared.  Since the UBS deferred-prosecution agreement, more than
38,000 U.S. taxpayers avoided criminal charges by declaring
their offshore accounts to the IRS and telling the agency about
the bankers who helped them and how they moved their money.  Of those, 246 had undisclosed accounts at Wegelin,
according to an affidavit by IRS Agent Cheryl Kiger.  Under Wegelin’s plea agreement, the bank agreed to pay
$20 million in restitution to the U.S., forfeit $15.8 million
that represents fees on undeclared accounts and pay a fine of
more than $22 million. The agreement needs the approval of U.S.
District Judge Jed S. Rakoff. Sentencing is set for March 4.  Taken together with the $16.2 million Wegelin forfeited
from its correspondent bank account, the government would
receive a total of about $74 million.  The IRS also has served John Doe summonses on UBS and HSBC
Holdings Plc,  Europe ’s largest bank by market value.  The case is In the Matter of the Tax Liabilities of  John
Does , 13-mc-21, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 