-- Muddy Waters Hires Singapore Lawyers for Olam Lawsuit
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-01-29T05:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/muddy-waters-hires-singapore-lawyers-for-olam-lawsuit.html
Muddy Waters  LLC, the research firm
founded by short-seller  Carson Block , hired lawyers in Singapore
to act in the lawsuit by the world’s second-largest rice trader
Olam International Ltd.  Jason Lim and Goh Kok Yeow from De Souza Lim & Goh LLP were
appointed Dec. 24, according to filings in the Singapore High
Court case where Olam sued Block and Muddy Waters after Block
questioned Olam’s accounting methods and said it “will fail”
at a conference in  London  on Nov. 19.  Olam, which raised $712.5 million last week from a bond
sale backed by its second-largest  shareholder  Singapore state
investment firm Temasek Holdings Pte, sought unspecified damages
and costs in its lawsuit, which was delivered to Muddy Waters’
Los Angeles office last month.  “Olam has a good arguable case,” Ipsita Aggarwal, general
counsel at the company, said in a Nov. 29 court filing
requesting to serve the lawsuit on Muddy Waters and Block
outside  Singapore . “The words are clearly defamatory to Olam,
as further evidenced by amongst others the negative market
reaction immediately following the publication of the words.’  Lim declined to comment on the lawsuit. Zach Kouwe, an
external spokesman for Muddy Waters, declined to comment on the
significance of the lawyers’ appointment. Olam spokesman Aditya Renjen didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking comment.  Block, a 36-year-old former lawyer, first said on Nov. 19
that he was selling Olam shares short -- borrowing them to
profit by buying them at a lower price later. He told Bloomberg
Television on Nov. 27, after issuing his report on Olam, that
Muddy Waters is always prepared to defend all its reports in
court.  Olam’s bonds and shares sank in November after being
targeted by Block. Olam shares rose 0.3 percent to S$1.645 as of
1:30 p.m. in Singapore trading. The stock is down 5.2 percent
since Block’s initial comments on Nov. 19.  The case is  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM)  v Muddy Waters LLC,
Carson Block. S987/2012. Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  