-- Ukraine Jails Ex-Police Official for Life for Reporter Beheading
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2013-01-29T16:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/ukraine-jails-ex-police-official-for-life-for-reporter-beheading.html
A Ukrainian court sentenced a former
Interior Ministry official to life in prison for killing Georgiy Gongadze, a reporter whose headless body was found in 2000 and
whose murder engulfed then-President Leonid Kuchma.  The Pechersk District Court in the capital, Kiev, stripped
Oleksiy Pukach of his position of lieutenant-general and ordered
his property confiscated, according to remarks by Judge Andriy
Melnyk broadcast today on the private TV channel 5. Pukach’s
lawyer Hryhoryi Demydenko said he’d appeal the ruling.  Gongadze, editor of the opposition  Ukrainska Pravda  news
website, disappeared in September 2000. His headless body was
found in a wood near Kiev almost two months later. Kuchma and
Interior Minister Yuri Kravchenko organized the kidnapping, a
parliamentary commission unanimously ruled in September 2005,
saying Volodymr Lytvyn, a former parliamentary speaker who was
then presidential chief-of-staff, was also involved.  Pukach said in comments shown by TV 5 that he’d
“understand the court’s ruling only when Kuchma and Lytvyn are
in the cage” with him. “I told them everything during the
investigation and court hearings but nobody was interested in
learning the truth.”  Kuchma was implicated after his former bodyguard Mykola Melnychenko produced audio tapes in 2000 in which the former
president demanded Gongadze be silenced. While Kuchma, who left
office in 2004 after two terms, acknowledged that the voice on
the tapes was his, he said it was a re-edited fabrication made
to discredit him. He denied all accusations and criminal
proceedings were dropped after a December 2011 court ruling.  Shooting Death  Kravchenko was found shot to death at his country home in
March 2005, days before he was scheduled to be questioned by
prosecutors. Kravchenko’s death was officially classified as
suicide.  The death of Gongadze, who was 31, prompted rallies that
lasted until 2002, including the construction of a tent
encampment in central Kiev, a precursor to the “tent city”
formed during the so-called Orange Revolution in 2004 that
helped overturn President  Viktor Yanukovych ’s election victory.  Pukach, who was on the run for six years, has been in
custody since his arrest on July 21, 2009. As regards the motive
for Gongadze’s murder, “ask Kuchma and Lytvyn,” he said today.
Lytvyn denies any involvement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  