-- UN Sees Favorable Southern Africa Corn Outlook Amid Armyworms
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-01-29T12:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/un-sees-favorable-southern-africa-corn-outlook-amid-armyworms.html
Corn crops in southern  Africa  are in
good condition in the largest producing areas as rains improved,
while some regions had too much moisture and fields were
infested with armyworms, the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture
Organization said.  In  South Africa , the region’s largest producer, the area
planted with corn is higher than a year earlier, the Rome-based
agency wrote in a  report  on its website yesterday. Dry weather
early in the season in southern areas of  Zimbabwe , Madagascar
and  Mozambique  may cut yields, while rain in December and early
January alleviated some stress. Heavy rainfall early this month
caused some flooding and crop losses in parts of Botswana,
Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa and Zimbabwe.  “With water levels remaining at elevated levels, the
potential for further floods remains,” the FAO said. “The
situation needs to be monitored closely in the coming weeks.”  Areas of Botswana, Malawi,  Namibia , Zambia and Zimbabwe
also saw outbreaks of armyworms in late 2012 that may reduce
yields, the FAO said. Farmers in Zambia were able to replant
some affected fields with early maturing crop varieties, and
control measures were put in place to help keep the pest from
spreading in the sub region, according to the report.  “Although the full extent of the damage is not yet known,
any significant crop losses would deteriorate local food
security conditions,” the FAO said.  South African corn prices peaked near a record in August
2012, and remain at “relatively high levels” even after
declining in September and December, the FAO said. Corn futures
on the Chicago Board of Trade, the global benchmark, surged to a
record $8.49 a bushel in August as drought hurt crops in the
U.S., the world’s biggest grower and exporter.  Malawi Corn  In Malawi, corn prices in November were double year-earlier
levels. About 2 million people in the country needed food
assistance in the country in October, 21 percent more than in
June, the FAO said, citing the Malawi Vulnerability Assessment
Committee. Food aid distribution and the release of government
subsidized corn has tempered prices in recent weeks, it said.  In  Zambia , corn meal prices climbed 19 percent from
November to December as the cost of grain rose 9 percent, the
FAO said. A government directive to millers to cut prices has
spurred some abatement in wholesale costs, while retail prices
have been slow to decline, according to the report.  In Mozambique, heavy rain and flooding has disrupted
transportation, reducing food supplies in wholesale markets in
some areas, the FAO said. This may push corn prices higher in
the region, according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  