-- Syria Diplomacy at Impasse as Envoy Cites Endless Tragedy
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-01-30T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/un-syria-envoy-says-syria-unraveling-as-assad-holds-on.html
United Nations special envoy Lakhdar Brahimi offered the grimmest picture yet of  Syria ’s descent into
chaos, leaving little doubt that diplomatic paths have been
exhausted as the conflict drags on indefinitely.  Syria is unraveling before the eyes of the world, Brahimi
told the UN  Security Council  yesterday, according to an account
provided by two UN officials who asked to not be named because
the meeting was closed to the public. The regime of President
Bashar al-Assad has defied forecasts of imminent collapse and
is surviving with no end in sight, even though its legitimacy
has been irrevocably lost, said the two officials.  Not only is Syria being destroyed “bit by bit,” the
conflict is pushing the region into a situation that is
“extremely bad and extremely important for the entire world,”
Brahimi told reporters after the session in  New York .  He said any new diplomatic prospects depend on further
measures by the divided Security Council. The UN’s most powerful
body has been hamstrung by  Russia ’s unwillingness to support
additional pressure on the Syrian regime.  “Brahimi is sadly confined to playing the tragic chorus in
a drama over which he has no control,”  Richard Gowan , associate
director of New York University’s Center on International
Cooperation, said yesterday in an interview.  U.S. intelligence and military officers and diplomats,
along with those of nations such as Britain,  Turkey , Jordan and
 Israel , are increasingly worried that what they consider the
slow death of Assad’s regime will destabilize neighboring Jordan
and Lebanon, unleash new Kurdish passions for independence and
could put chemical weapons in the hands of both Sunni and Shiite
extremists.  Too Late  Speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss
classified matters and international discussions, two U.S.
officials yesterday said it may be too late for the U.S. and
other nations to prevent some or all of those outcomes.  They called the reluctance of President  Barack Obama ’s
administration to provide more than humanitarian aid for Syrians
and limited military assistance to Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon
understandable in light of its desire to avoid a potential
quagmire. Still, the consequences of caution now threaten to
outweigh the risks of greater involvement, they said.  Aside from seeing Hezbollah or militant Sunni groups such
as al-Nusrat with links to al-Qaeda groups in  Iraq  obtain
chemical or biological weapons, they cited the danger to
Jordan’s pro-Western King Abdullah. His fall, were it to happen,
would create new instability on Israel’s western border and
inspire radicals elsewhere in the Arab world, they said.  Aleppo Massacre  The news of the latest massacre in Aleppo -- where the
bodies of dozens of young men shot in the head with their hands
tied back were found along the muddy banks of a river -- served
as a harrowing backdrop to Brahimi’s update.  A seasoned Algerian diplomat, Brahimi has been under few
illusions that he could succeed where his predecessor,  Kofi Annan , had failed. Back in September, Brahimi said a peaceful
settlement in Syria was “nearly impossible.”  Annan, a former UN Secretary-General, resigned six months
after his peace plan, a cease-fire followed by talks on a
transition, never got off the ground. Like Annan, Brahimi has
devoted a lot of time to trying to get Russia to break its ties
with Assad and call on him to step aside. Instead, Russia has
dragged out the diplomatic process and used its veto three times
to block council resolutions.  Apologizing for sounding like a broken record, Brahimi used
strong language to describe the situation in Syria. UN officials
said he called it a playground for competing forces, an endless
tragedy and an unparalleled horror.  ‘Frank’ Assessment  His assessment was “very frank and grim,” the U.S.
Ambassador to the UN Susan Rice said later to reporters. With
divisions in the council, she said, “there is no obvious way
forward.”  At times, Brahimi sounded as if he had lost patience as he
chided the Security Council for not doing enough, the officials
said.  “I told the council I am embarrassed to be saying the same
thing,” Brahimi said afterward. “Syria is being destroyed bit
by bit,” and the “Security Council simply can’t continue to
say ‘we are in disagreement.’”  Russia last night was to host a dinner for Brahimi and the
other four permanent members of the UN’s decision-making body --
the U.S.,  France , U.K. and  China . Brahimi, who unlike Annan
never had a personal audience with Russian President  Vladimir Putin , was in New York for ten days meeting with envoys
individually.  ‘Sense of Duty’  Asked by reporters if he plans to resign, Brahimi replied,
“I’m not a quitter.” He said, “Maybe stupidly, I feel a sense
of duty,” though “the moment I feel that I am totally useless,
I will not stay one minute more.”  The Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights , a U.K.-based group
that supports the opposition, said it has identified 17 of the
65 bodies pulled yesterday from the al-Quweiq river in the
Bustan al-Qasr neighborhood of Aleppo. The death toll may be as
high as 80, as bodies were still floating in the water, the
group said.  The U.S. yesterday announced $155 million in humanitarian
relief for Syria, bringing its total $365 million. That’s a
fraction of the $1.5 billion the UN set as a target last month
as debt-laden Western nations have curtailed foreign aid. Kuwait
is hosting a donor conference today to raise funds for Syria’s
humanitarian needs.  Obama Video  Obama released a three-minute, Arabic-subtitled video
statement to the Syrian people yesterday, saying “we’re under
no illusions” the conflict will be resolved soon. “The days
ahead will continue to be very difficult,” he said, offering no
timetable for when “the Assad regime will come to an end.”  What began as anti-government protests on the back of the
Arab revolts two years ago has mutated into a fight to the death
between an Alawite minority clinging to power and a Sunni-led
opposition that counts Islamist fighters among its ranks.  “The rebels are intent on winning a decisive victory and
Assad is willing to fight to a bloody finish,” Gowan said.  A year ago, Western leaders including then-French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  asserted
Assad’s days were numbered. Now that certainty is gone.  “There are no positive signs for the solution we want,
which is the fall of Bashar’s regime,” French Foreign Minister
Laurent Fabius said during a Jan. 24 news conference in Paris.
“Nothing is advancing in Syria.”  With a countless number of casualties -- the UN estimates
more than 60,000 Syrians dead -- a growing concern is that
chemical weapons may fall into the wrong hands.  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said Jan. 27 that Israel
must prepare for the threat of a chemical attack from Syria as
the Israeli army deployed its new Iron Dome anti-missile system
near the border with its northern neighbor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  