-- Orban Casts Doubt on IMF Deal in Bid to Exit EU Fiscal Curbs
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-01-30T17:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/hungary-wants-exit-from-eu-fiscal-curbs-as-elections-draw-nearer.html
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  cast
doubt on  Hungary ’s prospects for an International Monetary Fund
loan as he visited Brussels to persuade officials to free his
government from European Union budget shackles.  The chances of agreeing on a flexible credit line from the
Washington-based lender are diminishing, Orban said during a
one-day trip to the Belgian capital. He met European Commission
President  Jose Manuel Barroso , EU President Herman van Rompuy
and European Parliament President  Martin Schulz .  Hungary’s aid talks with the IMF, started as the forint
plunged to a record low and the country’s debt was downgraded to
junk, have stalled after more than 1 1/2 years. The government
must borrow the equivalent of 19 percent of economic output this
year, making its financing needs the highest in eastern  Europe ,
Moody’s Investors Service said Jan. 28.  Hungary’s IMF negotiations are “coming to an end, but not
with the result we desired,” Orban said today in a speech at
the Bruegel Institute, vowing to maintain his country’s request
for a flexible  credit line  until the IMF issues a final
decision. “We don’t need a loan because we’d like to be
financed from the market. We’ll go out to the market again
probably this month or the beginning of next month.”  Currency Drop  The forint has fallen 1.7 percent against the euro in the
last month, driven by investor anxiety over Hungary’s economic
outlook and changes in the management of the central bank as the
mandates of Governor Andras Simor and his two deputies expire.  Orban is trying to convince EU officials to allow Hungary
to exit the bloc’s excessive-deficit procedure, which curbs
spending and may trigger a freeze in development funds. The
procedure has been in place since Hungary joined the EU in 2004
and would affect state expenditure before elections next year.  The EU “encourages” Hungary to pay “closer attention”
to the quality of fiscal measures it enacts while it
“welcomes” the government’s commitment to keep the shortfall
below the EU ceiling of 3 percent of gross domestic product,
Barroso told a news conference after meeting Orban. The
commission will publish an assessment of recent fiscal measures
on Feb. 22, he said.  Unsustainable Policies  To keep the budget  gap  within the bloc’s limit, Orban has
implemented measures he calls “unorthodox” that have sapped
investment, eroded confidence and helped spark a second
 recession  in four years. The EU this week called his budget
policies unsustainable.  The Cabinet is targeting a gap of 2.7 percent of gross
domestic product this year and 2.2 percent in 2014. Hungary
should be released from the excessive-deficit procedure because
economic growth will quicken in 2014 and 2015, while state debt
will shrink, Orban said, calling this year’s goals “realistic”
and rejecting the need for further fiscal measures.  The commission, the EU’s executive arm, is less optimistic,
predicting Nov. 7 that the shortfall will widen to 3.5 percent
next year after remaining within the 3 percent limit in 2013.  If current government policy is maintained, Hungary will
probably overshoot its deficit targets through 2015 and needs a
shift toward sustainable fiscal consolidation as well as
measures to boost economic growth, the IMF said Jan. 28. The
shortfall may be 3.25 percent this year and more than 3 percent
in 2014 and 2015, it said.  ‘Balanced Manner’  Hungary should take additional steps to keep its budget gap
below 3 percent of GDP in a “durable and balanced manner,” the
EU said in a Jan. 28 report. Corporate tax increases would harm
the economy in the medium and longer term, it warned.  Orban, who visits Russia tomorrow for talks with President
 Vladimir Putin , is gearing up for 2014 elections with diminished
support. His party, Fidesz, had 19 percent backing among
eligible voters, according to an Ipsos poll published Jan. 22 by
state news service MTI. It still leads the Socialists, who have
16 percent. No margin of error was given.  Measures implemented by Orban include the effective
nationalization of private-pension fund assets, retroactive
industry taxes, levying the highest bank tax in Europe and
curtailing the power of the judiciary.  Hungary’s recession extended into the third quarter as
austerity measures hurt domestic demand. GDP shrank 0.2 percent
in July-September from the previous three months, a third
consecutive quarterly decline, and fell 1.5 percent from a year
earlier.  ‘Unorthodox Tools’  The new central bank chief should “bravely use unorthodox
tools” to provide monetary stimulus, Matolcsy, the favorite to
take over at the central bank, according to the Index news
website, said last month. Simor’s successor will be named a day
before his mandate expires on March 2, Orban said today.  The prime minister has had mixed success in appealing for
EU leniency. While he failed in 2010 to win backing for a wider
 budget deficit , an April 2012 meeting with Barroso helped clear
the way for Hungary to start IMF talks.  “Based on the risks to the fiscal outlook, we do not
expect the European Commission would lift the excessive-deficit
procedure in 2013 but the government will likely take further
corrective measures to avoid any sanctions, most likely at the
expense of the corporate sector,”  Eszter Gargyan , a Budapest-
based economist at Citigroup Inc. said in an e-mailed report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  