-- UniCredit Selling Up to 9.1% of Pekao to Free Up Capital
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i ,   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-01-30T14:21:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/unicredit-selling-up-to-9-1-percent-in-pekao-to-free-up-capital.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s largest
lender, is offering 9.1 percent of its Polish unit for as much
as 159 zloty ($51.3) a share as part of a plan to free up
capital and boost profit.  The sale of as much as 23.9 million shares in  Bank Pekao
SA (PEO) , Poland’s second-largest lender, is valued at 3.98 billion
zloty ($1.3 billion) based on yesterday’s closing price. The
stock is being offered in a range of 155 zloty to 159 zloty,
according to the term sheet of the placement obtained by
Bloomberg.  “The placement enables UniCredit to optimize the capital
allocation within the group and leverage the released capital to
continue to support the organic growth of its franchise in
central and eastern  Europe ,” the bank said. Pekao will remain
“core” to UniCredit’s strategy and the Italian bank is “fully
committed” to its Polish unit, it added.  The Italian bank will own at least 50.1 percent in Pekao
after the sale, it said in a regulatory statement late
yesterday. UniCredit is reviewing its strategy in central and
eastern Europe, selling assets and cutting costs to improve
profitability as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and Italy’s
third recession in a decade weigh on earnings. The lender has
targeted 1.5 billion euros in savings by 2015 as it seeks to
lift profit to 6.5 billion euros.  Pekao  stock fell  5.7 percent to 157 zloty as of 3.20 p.m.
in Warsaw, while UniCredit  shares  declined 1 percent to 4.75
euros in Milan.  Capital Boost  UniCredit’s core Tier 1 capital may improve between 10
basis points and 13 basis points under Basel III rules, Chief
Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  told reporters yesterday.  “The sale will have a positive impact on capital via
capital gain, higher minorities and lower goodwill,” Alberto Cordara an analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, who has a
“buy” recommendation on the stock, wrote in a note today.‘ ‘We
take the view that the additional capital buffer may ultimately
be used against more credit losses.”  UniCredit’s loan-loss provisions decreased to 1.81 billion
euros in the third quarter from 1.84 billion euros a year
earlier, helping bosting  profit  to 335 million euros in the
period.  The announcement comes less than a week after the Polish
government sold a $1.7 billion stake, or 12.2 percent, in  PKO
Bank Polski SA (PKO) , the country’s largest lender. Poland sold more
than it initially planned citing “high” demand, the government
said on Jan. 24.  UniCredit has agreed to a one-year lockup period regarding
sales of additional shares of Pekao.  -- Editors: Wojciech Moskwa, Gavin Serkin,  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Marta Waldoch at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  