-- Valero Profit Rises on Cheaper U.S. Crude
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2013-01-29T21:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/valero-profit-rises-on-cheaper-u-s-crude.html
Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , the world’s
largest independent refiner by processing capacity, rose to the
highest level since June 2008 after reporting a 20-fold increase
in fourth-quarter profit driven by cheap U.S. crude.  Valero climbed 13 percent to $43.77 at the close in  New
York , the biggest gain on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, after
the San Antonio-based company said net income rose to $1.01
billion, or $1.82 a share, from $45 million a year ago.  Per-share profit excluding a loss stemming from the
shutdown of its Aruba refinery was 68 cents more than the $1.20
average of 18  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
rose less than 1 percent to $34.7 billion.  Valero ceased all imports of light oil at its refineries in
 Memphis  and the U.S. Gulf Coast in the fourth quarter, relying
instead on cheaper crude produced in new U.S. fields, Valero
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Bill Klesse  said in the
statement. The company is looking for ways to process more North
American crude, which it expects “to become increasingly more
available.”  “This was a blowout, the best quarter for the company in
years,”  Fadel Gheit , a New York-based analyst at Oppenheimer &
Co., said in a telephone interview today. “The question they
need to answer now is how they are going to boost the stock
price, which is undervalued. What are they going to do for the
shareholder?”  Refining Sector  Valero’s refining gross margin was 20 percent higher than
expected,  Paul Sankey , a New York-based analyst with Deutsche
bank, said in a note to clients. The company benefited
particularly from a high profit margin at its refineries on the
U.S. Gulf Coast and in the midwest, Sankey said.  Refiners rose more than any other energy sector in 2012 as
U.S. crude production rose to the highest level since 1993,
exceeding demand and keeping U.S. prices an average $21.85 a
barrel  lower  than the global benchmark. Buying oil for less and
selling fuel at a price linked to more expensive crude fueled
the highest fourth-quarter per share profit Valero has seen
since 2005, according to the statement.  Valero, which has 13 buy ratings, nine holds and two sells
from analysts, has  gained  27 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  