-- Valero Looking at Rail, Barges to Ship Canadian Crude to Gulf
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h   a n d   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2013-01-29T20:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/valero-looking-at-rail-barges-to-ship-canadian-crude-to-gulf.html
Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  is considering
using barges and rail to move Canadian oil to the Gulf Coast as
the government weighs approval of the Keystone XL pipeline, the
most economic option, Valero President Joe Gorder said.  Valero could increase the amount of Canadian crude it moves
by barge to its St. Charles refinery in Louisiana from Hartford,
Illinois, a delivery point on an existing  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) 
line, Gorder said. Valero also owns heated rail cars and could
use them to send Canadian bitumen to Louisiana and Texas.  Crude production in Canada is outpacing takeaway capacity,
creating a glut in  Alberta  that depressed prices to a record low
last month against Mexico’s Maya crude, the heavy oil benchmark
used on the Gulf Coast. TransCanada’s  Keystone XL  construction
requires State Department authorization because it would cross
the U.S.-Canada border.  “We are bringing some heavy sour Canadian crudes into Port
Arthur,” Texas, where Valero has a refinery, Gorder said. “We
want heavy sour crude in the Gulf Coast. Keystone pipeline is
the most economical way for us to do that. We’re still fully
supportive of the pipeline and we want to see it happen. Second
to that, then you look at other alternatives to get heavy sours
out.”  Valero, the world’s largest independent refiner by
processing capacity, is trying to bring in Canadian crude as
fields mature and production declines in places like Mexico and
Venezuela, which have traditionally supplied the heavy, sour oil
for which Valero’s Gulf Coast refineries are configured. Heavy
refers to the oil’s density and sour to its sulfur content.  Awaiting Approval  TransCanada broke its $7.6 billion Keystone XL pipeline
into two projects after President  Barack Obama  rejected a permit
application last year over environmental concerns in  Nebraska .
The Calgary-based company anticipates completing a segment of
the pipeline that will run from  Oklahoma  to Texas refineries by
the end of 2013, Chief Executive Officer  Russ Girling  said at a
conference last week.  The company is awaiting approval from the State Department
for the other segment of the pipeline which would run from
Alberta to Steele City, Nebraska, and connect to a system
TransCanada is already operating.  Valero doesn’t have any special insight into Keystone XL’s
chances for approval, Chief Executive Officer  Bill Klesse  said.  “I think it’s just ridiculous,” Klesse said on the call.
“There’s pipelines everywhere. There’s a pipeline in front of
your home. Out in the streets. Canada’s an ally, and the
refineries on the U.S. Gulf Coast need the Canadian oil.”  Western Canadian Select oil in Alberta was priced at a
record $46.54-a-barrel  discount  to Maya crude on Dec. 14,
according to to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was at $38.07 at
2:06 p.m.  New York  time today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net ;
Barbara Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  