-- VMware Sales Forecast Misses Estimates as Demand Slumps
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-01-29T22:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/vmware-sales-forecast-misses-estimates-as-demand-slumps.html
VMware Inc. (VMW) , the biggest maker of
software that lets computers run multiple operating systems,
fell the most since mid-2008 after forecasting sales that were
less than estimates amid cutbacks from corporate customers.  The stock fell 22 percent to $77.14 after the company said
yesterday that first-quarter revenue will be $1.17 billion to
$1.19 billion. Analysts anticipated $1.25 billion, the average
of projections compiled by Bloomberg.  EMC Corp. (EMC) , which owns a
majority of VMware, also slumped.  VMware, which surged after its 2007 IPO on booming demand
for programs that make data centers run more efficiently, is
facing accelerating competition as software companies, including
Microsoft Corp., introduce low-priced alternatives. That’s
pushing Chief Executive Officer Pat Gelsinger to expand into a
broader range of cloud-computing tools, including networking,
the area dominated by Cisco Systems Inc.  “Microsoft is gaining ground as a good-enough and lower-
cost option,”  Jayson Noland , an analyst at Robert W. Baird &
Co. who has a neutral rating on VMware, wrote in a research note.
“We continue to see VMware as in-between past success and future 
growth.”  The company said it’s facing a tougher first half because
of a weak economy and sluggish federal government demand, which
had an impact on bookings, a measure of future sales. An
expected increase in contract renewals won’t occur until later
in the year, the  Palo Alto , California-based company said.  ‘Wayward Child’  “The company’s guidance was clearly disappointing,”  Abhey Lamba , an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. who recommends
buying the shares, wrote in a note to clients. “In particular,
management’s license growth expectations of 8 percent to 11
percent for the year are materially lower than expectations, as
investors expected revenue growth acceleration in 2013.”  EMC, the world’s biggest maker of storage computers,
slumped 4.1 percent to $24.18. VMware has dropped 16 percent in
the past 12 months, while and EMC has declined 6.4 percent. Both
have underperformed the 15 percent increase in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  EMC also provided a 2013 forecast that fell short. Sales
will be $23.5 billion, the company said today in a filing.
Analysts projected $23.6 billion on average.  The shares are down because of “poor guidance provided by
their wayward child VMware,” Brian Freed, an analyst at
Wunderlich Securities Inc., said via e-mail. He cut his rating
on VMware to hold from buy today.  Eliminating Jobs  VMware will cut 900 jobs, exit some lines of business and
consolidate facilities this year, resulting in charges of $90
million to $110 million, according to a filing. Even with the
job cuts, the company is still hiring and plans to end the year
with head count up by about 1,000, Gelsinger said on a
conference call.  VMware, bought by EMC for  $625 million  in 2004, went public
in 2007 in an initial public offering that made it one of the
world’s most valuable software companies. It created a  market
niche  essentially from scratch, letting servers powered by Intel
Corp. chips perform more efficiently by running multiple
operating systems and applications, saving companies money on
hardware and labor.  As many businesses adopted the approach -- and Microsoft
included its own virtualization software in the versions of
Windows it sells for server computers -- VMware under former CEO
Paul Maritz and current CEO Gelsinger has been branching out.
The company agreed in July to buy Nicira Inc. for $1.26 billion
to manage networking equipment, and it has been pushing
management tools to help companies deliver cloud computing
applications to users.  Microsoft Pressure  So far, those initiatives haven’t delivered the rapid
growth that VMware realized from earlier products.  Fourth-quarter profit, excluding items such as stock-based
compensation and a tax adjustment, was 81 cents a share,
exceeding the average  estimate  of 78 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 22 percent to $1.29 billion,
compared with a $1.28 billion average projection.  Net income climbed 2.7 percent to $205.8 million, or 47
cents a share, from $200.4 million, or 46 cents, a year earlier.  VMware is signing more agreements with smaller businesses
because many large corporations already have its software, said
 Rick Sherlund , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. Competition
from Microsoft and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  also may have forced VMware to
reduce prices, he said.  “Growth has been slowing,” Sherlund wrote in a research
report before the results were released. “Microsoft is having
some impact on pricing, more so than any significant shift in
market share so far.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  