-- Wesfarmers Second-Quarter Sales Rise as Interest Rates Cut
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-01-30T06:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/wesfarmers-second-quarter-sales-rise-as-central-bank-cuts-rates.html
Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) , Australia’s second-
largest retailer, posted a 4.8 percent rise in sales as the
central bank cut interest rates to stimulate the economy. The
shares fell the most in almost three months.  Revenue from retail businesses rose to A$15.1 billion
($15.8 billion) in the three months ended Dec. 30 on gains at
its Coles supermarkets and Bunnings home improvement chain, the
Perth, Australia-based company said in a statement today. That
beat the A$15 billion median of seven analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg News.  Australia’s central bank has  cut rates  to a half-century
low in an attempt to stimulate non-mining sectors of the
economy, stoking  consumer confidence , which hit a 19-month high
in November. Coles refurbished stores and cut prices on staples
including bread and milk to win customers from first-ranked
 Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)  in a country where they share  80 percent  of the
market.  “Broader sales trends remain sluggish,” Citigroup Inc.
analyst Craig Woolford, who rates the stock a sell, wrote in a
Jan. 24 note to clients. “The stock is over-priced.”  Wesfarmers  shares  fell 1.8 percent to A$38.13 at the close
in Sydney, its biggest drop since Nov. 1, while the S&P/ASX 200
index rose 0.2 percent. The stock has  surged  26 percent in the
past 12 months, compared to a 15 percent improvement in the
benchmark.  The 4.8 percent rate of total sales growth in the second-
quarter was the best for the period in at least two years, with
revenues rising 4.6 percent during the same period of 2011 and
4.7 percent in 2010.  The company didn’t detail quarterly retail sales
performance before 2010.  Sales at Coles food and liquor stores rose 5 percent in the
quarter compared with the 5.2 percent median of six analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg News.  At Coles supermarkets open at least 12 months, sales rose
3.9 percent in the quarter compared with the 4.2 percent growth
expected by the median of seven analyst estimates.  While fresh produce prices fell at a slower rate than
previously, food and liquor price deflation still came to 0.9
percent in the December quarter, Wesfarmers said. Australia’s
 consumer price inflation  during the period was 2.2 percent.  Bunnings, the nation’s largest home improvement chain,
posted a 6.6 percent rise in sales while Kmart increased revenue
3.8 percent, its fastest pace since at least 2010.  Australia’s business sentiment climbed by the most in more
than a decade in December, according to a private survey, as
traders price in a 30 percent chance the central bank will
reduce rates further when it meets next week.  Woolworths reports second-quarter sales tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  