-- Westinghouse CEO Expects Japan to Restart Most Nuclear Reactors
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2013-01-29T14:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/westinghouse-ceo-expects-japan-to-restart-most-nuclear-reactors.html
Japan  will probably restart most of
its atomic reactors within “several years” after the country
improved safety at the plants following the 2011 Fukushima
nuclear meltdown, according to Westinghouse Electric Corp.  “I’m pretty optimistic the Japanese nuclear fleet is going
to restart,” Chief Executive Officer Danny Roderick said today
in an interview. “It’s going to take several years but I can
tell you that the sentiment has changed significantly.”  All but two of Japan’s 50 reactors are shut after a tsunami
that led to the atomic crisis at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant,
forcing 160,000 people to be evacuated from the area. Members of
the ruling  Liberal Democratic Party  who won elections last year
are pushing to restart the power stations to ease a shortage of
 energy supply  and help breathe life into the country’s economy.  “The no-go on nuclear is having a severe impact on Japan’s
balance of payments,”  Mark Hibbs , a senior associate of the
Carnegie Endowment’s nuclear policy program, said by e-mail. “A
reversal of Japan’s nuclear policy is no foregone conclusion.”  Any restart will need approval from the Nuclear Regulation
Authority that’s probing six plants on concerns that they were
built on active  fault lines . Japan Atomic Power Co.’s Tsuruga
plant may lie on an active quake fault line, the regulator says.  “I’ve met with members of the new government, I’ve also
met with a lot of our customers over there, and they’re ready,”
Roderick said after a briefing in Prague. “They’ve installed
numerous safety modification enhancements, they’ve installed
tsunami protection, and now they’re ready to start bringing the
units back on line.” Westinghouse is owned by  Toshiba Corp. (6502)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  