-- White Energy Shuts Ethanol Plant in Texas on High Corn Prices
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-01-29T18:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/white-energy-shuts-ethanol-plant-in-texas-on-high-corn-prices.html
White Energy Inc., a U.S. ethanol
producer, idled a distillery in Plainview,  Texas , because of
high corn prices.  The plant will be shut until corn prices drop or as long as
nine months after this year’s harvest in September, Ron Dunbar,
White Energy’s vice president of ethanol operations, said today
by telephone. Its capacity is 120 million gallons a year.  Producers including  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ,  Abengoa SA (ABG)  and
Poet LLC have been cutting output because of record corn prices
caused by the worst drought since the 1930s.  Ethanol production 
in the fourth quarter of 2012 was down 12 percent from the
previous year, according to government data.  “The whole ethanol industry right now is fighting with
margins,” Dunbar said.  Denatured ethanol for February delivery rose 0.7 cent, or
0.3 percent, to $2.41 a gallon at 1:45 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board
of Trade. Prices have gained 9.7 percent in the past year.  That hasn’t been enough to keep pace with corn, the primary
feedstock used to make the fuel in the U.S., which has gained 25
percent in the past year. Corn for March delivery rose 1.75
cents to $7.31 a bushel in Chicago. One bushel makes at least
2.75 gallons of ethanol.  Based on March contracts for corn and ethanol, producers
are losing 23 cents on each gallon of the fuel made, unchanged
from yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
figures exclude the revenue that can be made from the sale of
dried distillers’ grains, a byproduct of ethanol production that
can be fed to livestock.  Producers Losing  Dunbar said White’s plant in Hereford, Texas, is
manufacturing below its 45 million-gallon-a-year capacity.  Valero, the world’s largest independent refinery by
processing capacity and the third-biggest U.S. ethanol producer,
said today that it operated its plants at reduced rates during
the fourth quarter and that it idled three mills.  Poet, the second-largest U.S. ethanol maker, said Jan. 25
that it will suspend output at its Macon, Missouri, distillery
on Feb. 1, because there isn’t enough corn available.  Abengoa, a Spanish engineering and renewable energy
company, said Jan. 16 it halted production at its plants in York
and Ravenna,  Nebraska , until market conditions improve.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  