-- Wing Lung Sees Loan Boom in Qianhai Within Five Years
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-01-30T02:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/wing-lung-sees-loan-boom-in-qianhai-within-five-years.html
Hong Kong banks’ loans in
neighboring Shenzhen’s Qianhai district may jump in the next
three to five years as companies registered in the zone start
operating, according to Wing Lung Bank Ltd.  The bank is among the first 15 Hong Kong lenders to Qianhai
companies, which agreed to borrow a total of about 2 billion
 yuan  ($321 million), the city of Shenzhen said this week. Banks
will probably price the loans, mainly for construction and
development, at 4 percent to 4.5 percent, Henry Huang, assistant
general manager of the Hong Kong-based unit of  China Merchants
Bank Co. (3968) , said in a briefing yesterday.  Qianhai, a 15-square-kilometer (5.8-square-mile) zone, was
chosen as a testing ground for freer yuan usage and capital
account convertibility. The program offers Hong Kong banks
another avenue to use their yuan deposits, which have grown 25-
fold in the past six years.  “Qianhai is still a site waiting to be developed,” Huang
said. “As companies move in, we will gradually see lending
demand for day-to-day operations. The process may take three to
five years.”  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) , Standard Chartered Plc and China’s five
biggest banks are also among the firms selected to lend to
companies in Qianhai. Units of Tencent Holdings Ltd., ZTE Corp.
and Konka Group Co. signed pacts with Bank of China (Hong Kong)
Ltd. on Jan. 28 for the cross-border yuan loans, according to
the city’s statement that day.  Burned Before  Hong Kong banks have been burned in Guangdong province
before, when the 1998 failure of the mainland region’s
investment arm during the Asian financial crisis led to the
first Chinese international bond default since the birth of the
People’s Republic in 1949.  Qianhai cross-border yuan loans probably won’t show
“explosive growth” while the area is still building up its
infrastructure, Huang said. Interest rates on loans may increase
in line with the risk of later projects, he said.  “ China  seeks to make its capital account basically
convertible in 2015,” Raymond Yeung, a Hong Kong-based senior
economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said by
telephone today. “If Qianhai is proven to be a successful pilot
zone for testing capital-account convertibility and interest-
rate setting, we may see China setting up more of these zones.”  Tax Benefits  Wing Lung Bank, which will celebrate its 80th anniversary
next month, may seek to move its Shenzhen branch or sub-branch
into Qianhai to receive tax benefits, according to Huang.  The government will offer 15 percent corporate income tax
to certain Hong Kong firms in Qianhai in an attempt to encourage
the city’s services sector to operate in the zone, the National
Development and Reform Commission said last year.  Wing Lung Bank generated HK$277.8 million ($36 million) of
 pretax profit from mainland China  in the first half of last
year, or 22 percent of the total for the period, it said in its
2012 interim report. That compared with HK$73.3 million, or 6.3
percent of the total, a year earlier. Cross-border yuan
businesses contributed to an almost four-fold increase in pretax
profit from China, Huang said.  Net interest margins at Hong Kong banks may narrow
“slightly” this year, as an indirect effect of the interest-
rate liberalization that has squeezed loan profitability on the
mainland, Huang said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  