-- Yemen’s Army Attacks Militants in Bid to Free Westerners
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-01-29T10:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-29/yemen-s-army-attacks-militants-in-bid-to-free-westerners.html
Yemen began a military operation
against al-Qaeda-affiliated militants to free a Finnish couple
and an Austrian man abducted last month in the capital, Sana’a.  The campaign, which started yesterday in the central
province of al-Baidha, where the captives are believed held,
followed unsuccessful tribal mediation with al-Qaeda, a senior
officer said. The army will continue the operation until the
hostages are released and foreign militants are forced out of
the region, the officer said on condition of anonymity because
he isn’t authorized to talk to the media.  The army has been using heavy weapons, including artillery,
aircraft and helicopters, to shell militant strongholds in al-
Manaseh in al-Baidha, said Khaled al-Jahrani, a local resident.
Troops have been deployed to different parts of the region and
tanks and armored vehicles can be seen on the roads, he said by
telephone today.  Armed tribesmen have joined the al-Qaeda militants who are
fighting the government troops, said Khalid al-Thahab, a tribal
chief in al-Baidha. They besieged an army battalion in al-
Thaaleb village in al-Baidha and destroyed some of its heavy
weaponry. “The clashes are fierce and expanding,” he said.  Hours after the campaign began, a suicide bomber targeted a
military checkpoint in the province, killing 11 soldiers and
wounding 17 others.  A group of unidentified men seized the three Westerners in
the center of Sana’a on Dec. 21. The abducted Finnish man was
studying in Yemen, and his kidnapped partner, a woman, was
visiting him, Finland’s Foreign Ministry said last month.  Yemen’s Interior Minister Abdul-Qader Qahtan discussed the
abductions with  Austria ’s ambassador to  Saudi Arabia , Gregor
Koessler, state-run Saba news agency reported yesterday. Qahtan
assured Koessler during his visit to Sana’a that Yemeni
authorities are committed to “freeing them in a way that
guarantees their safety,” Saba cited Qahtan as saying.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  