-- 
‘Brrrr,’ ‘Aah’ to Resound at London Vocal Jamboree: Interview

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-05-12T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/-brrrr-aah-to-resound-at-london-s-southbank-vocal-jamboree-interview.html
It’s not every day that interviewer
and interviewee wail “nnnnnggggg” at each other like sirens.  Mary King  and I did just that. King, a voice expert and
television presenter, is curating the fourth annual “Chorus!”
event, starting today, at the  Southbank Centre  in  London . The
weekend event features vocal performances, workshops and
encourages audience participation.  When I meet King in a glass-walled sunny rooftop space
overlooking the Thames, she finishes our chat by giving me a
vocal workout. We blow raspberries up and down the scale, prod
our diaphragms, and do the siren thing. I haven’t had so much
fun in an interview in ages.  “It’s the equivalent of a stretch before football or
limbering up before going to the gym,” she says, before blowing
another raspberry. “You should oil the voice so it functions
properly.”  King, a tireless talker with a low and warm speaking voice,
was a presenter on the Channel 4 shows “Operatunity” and
“Musicality.” She also has included actor Ewan McGregor among
the stars she has coached for  West End  singing roles.  Now she’s curating a weekend of all things to do with the
voice. There’s a performance by Steeleye Span folk singer Martin
Carthy, a “Massive Messiah” involving 750 people and excellent
soloists, and a free set from the  London Gay Men’s Chorus , among
a host of other singalongs and debates.  Music in Offices , a dynamic organization that encourages
workers to form choirs and ensembles in their companies, also is
providing groups for a free event on Saturday afternoon. There
will be choirs from department-store operator Debenhams Plc,
Great Ormond Street Hospital and the  Times newspaper .  Office Singers  “Music in Offices has been fantastically successful,”
King says. “People who might never normally meet in a building
get a chance to form bonds and make friendships.”  The theme of Chorus! this year is voice and health. “We’re
focusing on the idea that singing promotes well-being, both
emotionally as well as physically,” says King, 58. “I’ve
always felt that singing is what happens when you can no longer
contain your emotions in speech. It’s a vehicle for getting out
lots of deep stuff, without killing anybody. Consider opera,
most operas are about the things you’re not supposed to mention
in polite society.”  Along with talks by laryngologists, osteopaths and speech
therapists, King herself is leading two free warm-ups. The
first, on Saturday, mixes vocal and body exercises with Pilates,
and the next, a day later, incorporates yoga.  Anniversary Party  The weekend is part of the four-month 60th anniversary
celebrations of the 1951 Festival of Britain, taking place all
over the Southbank.  The celebrations are sponsored by MasterCard Worldwide, as
part of a longer three-year agreement.  In an unfortunately ironic turn of events, Shaun Springer,
U.K. head of brand, sponsorship and digital marketing at
MasterCard, had lost his voice and couldn’t give a spoken
interview. He answered questions via e-mail.  Why choose the Southbank, and why the new Festival of
Britain, I ask him? “Our research shows that the arts and
culture are close to consumers’ hearts,” he says. “So we’re
creating packages to reward our cardholders, to give the message
that we’re giving the best access to the festival.”  He declined to say how much the accord was worth, stressing
that some of the collaboration is in kind. “The Southbank is
conducting a trial of our contactless technology called
MasterCard PayPass this summer, for example. We’ve also had
access to their expertise in marketing, membership, finance and
education.”  He pays tribute to the efforts of artistic director Jude Kelly. “She has brought the festival to life for our
executives, hosting dinners and private tours,” says Springer.
“She has been a real champion of our support.”  Chorus! runs from today through May 15 at the  Southbank
Centre , London. Information:
 http://ticketing.southbankcentre.co.uk/find/festivals -
series/chorus or +44-844-875-0073. For more on Music in Offices,
see  http://www.musicinoffices.com .  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 