-- 
Warburton Blocked From Top Job at Australia’s Ten Network Until Jan. 1

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-05-12T04:12:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/lachlan-murdoch-s-choice-for-ten-network-ceo-is-delayed-by-australia-court.html
Lachlan Murdoch ’s choice of James Warburton for the top job at Australian television broadcaster
 Ten Network Holdings Ltd. (TEN)  was delayed until next year by a judge,
who agreed to partly enforce a non-competition order.  Lachlan Murdoch, son of  News Corp. (NWSA)  Chairman  Rupert Murdoch ,
hired Warburton, then sales director at rival  Seven Group
Holdings Ltd. (SVW) ’s Seven Network, in March. Warburton was scheduled
to start as chief executive officer at Ten on July 14. Seven
Media Group, or SMG, claimed a non-compete clause in his
contract prevented him from taking the job until October 2012.  “I should do no more than the minimum that is reasonably
necessary to protect the plaintiffs’ legitimate commercial
interests,” New South  Wales  Supreme Court Judge Michael
Pembroke wrote in a 50-page judgment today, barring Warburton
from starting before Jan. 1. “There is no justification for
restraining him from competition with SMG or any of its
subsidiaries beyond 1 January 2012.”  Ten Network, the least watched of  Australia ’s three
commercial television broadcasters, fired chief executive Grant Blackley in February and appointed Lachlan Murdoch to run the
network on an interim basis. A week after his appointment,
Lachlan Murdoch hired Warburton to the top job.  Seven fell 2.8 percent to A$8.94 at 1:22 p.m. in Sydney
trading. Ten gained 0.4 percent to A$1.30, paring its loss this
year to 8.1 percent.  ‘Redoubtable Talent’  Seven had argued that in his job at the network, Warburton
gained access to confidential information, including contract
terms for talent and advertisers, that he could use to unfair
advantage at Ten.  “Mr. Warburton is clearly a redoubtable talent who is
respected, sought after and even fought over,” Pembroke wrote.
“If he becomes the chief executive officer of Network Ten from
1 January 2012, Mr. Warburton may well represent a competitive
threat to Seven, but this will not realistically be because of
his retention of confidential information.”  Warburton, walking amid a throng of television cameras and
reporters from the court house in Sydney’s central business
district following the ruling today, said he needed to review
the judgment and consider his options before commenting further.  “Contracts are important in our business and it is our
policy to enforce them consistently,” Seven Network said in a
statement following today’s ruling.  Countersuit Dismissed  Pembroke dismissed Warburton’s countersuit claiming his
contract at Seven was wrongfully terminated. The judge ordered
Warburton to pay 70 percent of Seven’s legal costs. Pembroke
said Seven wasn’t justified in hiring three lawyers to argue its
case and a cost assessment shouldn’t extend to the three lawyers.  “We now have certainty about James’s starting date,” Ten
Chairman Brian Long said in a statement. “We are disappointed
it has been delayed.”  The case is Seven Network (Operations) Ltd. v. James
Warburton. 2011 NSWSC 386.  Supreme Court  of New South Wales
(Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  