-- 
Ackermann Says Restructuring Greek Sovereign Debt Would be ‘Huge Mistake’

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-05-12T09:59:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/ackermann-sees-steady-increase-in-greek-aid-rather-than-debt-restructuring.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  said Greek debt won’t be restructured as
it would be a “huge mistake” that could risk contagion.  “The losses in many areas would be too high and could
provoke a contagion impact,” Ackermann said in an interview on
the sidelines of a conference in  St. Gallen , Switzerland, today.
“They have to increase the package for the next two years in
order to cope with these challenges, there is no other
solution.”  European Central Bank officials have intensified their
opposition to a restructuring or default and European finance
chiefs held an unscheduled meeting in Luxembourg on May 6 and
said Greece needs “a further adjustment program” on top of its
existing 110 billion-euro ($156 billion) rescue package.
European banks have $130 billion in exposure to the southern
European country, according to Credit Suisse Group AG strategist
 Andrew Garthwaite .  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest lender, had net sovereign
risks tied to Greece of 1.6 billion euros at the end of last
year, it said in March. German banks’ claims against Greek
borrowers fell to $34 billion in the final quarter of 2010 from
more than $40 billion, Bank for International Settlements
statistics show.  Greek  government bonds  fell, pushing the two-year note
yield to a record, on persistent speculation that the country
will have to restructure its debt. German June Bund futures rose
to the highest since January.  ‘Credit Crunch’  Ackermann’s comments echoed warnings by the EU that a
restructuring of Greece’s sovereign debt would have
“devastating implications” for the country and the euro area
as a whole.  “A debt restructuring in Greece would have major
consequences on the soundness of the banking sector in Greece as
well as on any banks having exposure to Greek securities,” EU
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said
earlier this week at the European Parliament in Strasbourg,
France. “Such a major banking crisis would lead to a massive
credit crunch,” Rehn said, adding that “the contraction of the
economy would be unprecedented in Greece.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in a speech
to the lower house in Berlin today that Greece will have to
carry out more savings before more international aid is freed
up, tightening the screws on the Greek government as it faces
down budget-cut protests.  No Euro Exit  Greece’s debt “will not be restructured,” Ackermann said
today. “It would be a huge mistake to restructure it now.”  The country should be given time to “do what they need to
do,” Ackermann said. “And we can talk about it in three year’s
time.”  It is unlikely Greece would leave the euro and “on balance
Greece would choose to avoid early debt restructuring,” Credit
Suisse analysts led by Garthwaite said in a note today.  Deutsche Bank Supervisory Board Chairman  Clemens Boersig 
said on May 10 that a Greek exit from the euro and EU is not in
the interest of  Germany  or  Europe  and a restructuring of its
debt would have “severe consequences.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  