-- 
Advisers With Most Assets Use Options More, OIC Survey Finds

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-05-12T20:14:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/advisers-with-most-assets-use-options-more-oic-survey-finds.html
U.S. financial advisers are trading
more options and those with the most assets are
“significantly” more likely to use the derivatives than peers
with smaller amounts, according to the industry’s first survey.  Ninety-four percent of advisers overseeing at least $500
million bought or sold equity derivatives in the past year,
while 78 percent of those with $100 million to $500 million made
option trades, according to a Bellomy Research Inc. survey of
more than 600 U.S. advisers for the  Options Industry Council .
That compares with 48 percent of advisers with $50 million to
$100 million, and 36 percent managing less than $50 million.  “Advisers started to understand that they couldn’t hide
under their desks in 2009 and that they needed to start bringing
more valuable ideas, and that started to open up the
floodgates,” Eric Cott, OIC’s director of financial-adviser
education, said at a press conference at the OIC conference in
Savannah,  Georgia . “That timing could not have been better for
us to be out in the field talking to advisers.” Cott took his
position in 2009 after 15 years as a financial adviser.  The Chicago-based industry group backed by the U.S. options
exchanges introduced an education program in 2009 to instruct
financial advisers on how to use equity derivatives. Advisers
increasing their use of options helped boost U.S. volume 8
percent last year to 3.9 billion contracts for an eighth-
straight annual record, according to the OIC. Trading in March
rose to a monthly record of 417.2 million contracts as stocks
plunged after  Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami.  “Options usage among advisers is responding to the current
market conditions, as well as a shift in client attitudes,” OIC
said in a report. “Clients are asking for ways to avoid the
losses of the past few years again and enhance their returns in
the current up market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  