-- 
Aegon Profit Declines 12% on Lower Investment Gains, Longevity Provisions

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-05-12T06:57:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/aegon-profit-declines-12-on-lower-investment-gains-longevity-provisions.html
Aegon NV (AGN) , the Dutch owner of U.S.
insurer Transamerica Corp., said first-quarter profit fell 12
percent as it posted lower investment gains and set aside more
money to cover life-expectancy risks in the Netherlands.  Net income decreased to 327 million euros ($464 million)
from 371 million euros a year earlier, the Hague-based insurer
said in a statement today. That missed the 337 million-euro
average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “This looks like a weak quarter due to the European
operations” amid higher Dutch longevity provisions, Lemer Salah, an Amsterdam-based analyst at SNS Securities NV who has a
“buy” recommendation on Aegon’s stock, said by e-mail.  Aegon sold shares in the first quarter and agreed to divest
most of its global reinsurance business to  Scor SE (SCR)  as it seeks
to repay the remainder of 3 billion euros in state aid it
received amid the financial crisis before the end of June. That
would allow the company to resume paying dividends and making
acquisitions as the European Union’s constraints will be lifted.  The insurer had 3.7 billion euros of capital in excess of
what is required for a Standard & Poor’s AA credit rating at the
end of March. Aegon said proceeds from the sale of Transamerica
Reinsurance will help it repay the remaining 750 million euros
in  government aid , with a 50 percent premium, according to
schedule.  Dutch Longevity  The company forecast that underlying pretax profit,
excluding investment swings, will be “negatively impacted”
this year by the sale of its Transamerica Re unit, the winddown
of some U.S. products and pension legislation changes in Hungary
and  Poland . Earnings on that basis fell to 414 million euros in
the first quarter from 446 million euros a year ago.  Aegon aims to grow underlying pretax profit by 7 percent to
10 percent a year on average from the 2011 level, the insurer
said in February.  Investment gains fell 28 percent to 91 million euros, Aegon
said. Underlying earnings in the Netherlands dropped 22 percent
to 81 million euros as the company had to add provisions for
increased life expectancy among the Dutch. The insurer expects
to add 20 million euros a quarter to the provisions on average,
it said today.  Aegon’s shares have climbed 17 percent this year, valuing
the company, whose Pyramid building looms over  San Francisco ’s
financial district, at about 10.3 billion euros.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  