-- 
LaHood Says Amtrak Is ‘Very, Very Safe’ Amid Terror Threat

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-05-12T17:15:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/lahood-says-amtrak-is-very-very-safe-.html
Riding  Amtrak  is “very, very safe”
and the national passenger rail service is “doing everything
they can” to ensure the security of its trains, U.S.
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said.  LaHood’s comments, in an interview yesterday at Bloomberg’s
Washington bureau, came less than two weeks after the U.S.
military’s May 1 raid on Osama bin Laden’s Pakistani hideout
uncovered information that al-Qaeda had considered an attack on
U.S. railroads. Passenger railroads have been targeted in Moscow
in 2010, Mumbai in 2008,  Madrid  in 2004 and  London  in 2005.  “Once our friends in the intelligence community have a
chance to look at the material that was gathered from bin
Laden’s house and we talk to Congress about ideas they have, if
more needs to be done I’m sure Amtrak would be willing to do
more,” he said. LaHood said he sees no reason for Amtrak to do
more now.  The railroad has more than doubled its bomb-detecting
canine teams from 20 to 45 since 2005, and in 2008 it started a
random baggage-screening program, Amtrak Chief of Police John
O’Connor told the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation
Committee at a April 2010  hearing .  Amtrak began working with the U.S. Transportation Security
Administration in December 2007 to increase the presence of
uniformed police and security officers in Amtrak stations,
O’Connor testified.  It also works with the security agency’s bomb experts,
behavior screening officers and security investigators, he said.  Amtrak has also installed security fences and closed-
circuit televisions on its property. It has encouraged
passengers and the public to report possible security threats on
trains and at the railroad’s more than 500 stations in 46 states
and the  District of Columbia .  Security Challenges  Amtrak operates a network of more than  21,000 miles ,
primarily over tracks leased from freight railroads including
 CSX Corp. (CSX) ,  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC) ,  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , and the
Burlington Northern Santa Fe, owned by  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  It owns about 650 miles of track,
including 363 miles between Washington and  Boston , which carries
about two-thirds of its ridership. Amtrak says it carried 28.7
million passengers in 2010 on more than 300 daily trains.  The openness of passenger-rail systems “can leave them
vulnerable to terrorist attack,” according to a July 2010
 report  by the Government Accountability Office.  Other characteristics such as “high ridership, expensive
infrastructure and location in large metropolitan areas or
tourist destinations” make them difficult to secure, according
to the report, which examined explosive detection technologies
that could help protect passenger railroads.  Growing Costs  Passenger rail’s “multiple access points along extended
routes make the cost of securing each location prohibitive,”
the GAO reported.  Amtrak has received more than $103 million in transit
security grants from the U.S. Department of  Homeland Security 
since 2005, the first year it got money, according to Adam
Fetcher, a department spokesman.  It requested $39 million for fiscal year 2011, said Steve Kulm, a spokesman for Amtrak. The railroad also has devoted $450
million from the money it got in the 2009 stimulus package to
security and safety projects, Kulm said in an e-mail.  Amtrak also works “extensively” with freight railroads,
law enforcement and commuter railroads and transit agencies “to
enhance our security efforts,” Kulm said.  ‘No Ride’  Senator Charles Schumer, a New York Democrat, has called on
Amtrak to create a “no ride” list similar to the “no fly”
list airlines use to keep suspected terrorists off planes.
Schumer also would increase funding for track inspections,
monitoring and supporting local  law enforcement  at train
stations.  “They are fundamentally on the right path with the
measures they’ve taken,”  Michael Jackson , president of
Firebreak Partners Llc, an infrastructure security consulting
firm, said in a phone interview.  “Airport-style passenger screening wouldn’t be feasible
and I don’t think it would even be necessary,” said Jackson,
who as deputy secretary of transportation from May 2001 to
August 2003 focused on responding to the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks. Jackson also served on Amtrak’s board of directors and
was deputy security of homeland security from 2005 to 2007.  The best approach for railroads is to combine personal
security measures, random baggage checks, and monitoring of
bridges, tunnels, turns and certain key segments of track,
Jackson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in  Washington  at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn in Washington at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 