-- 
Air France Black Boxes Probably Intact, BEA Says

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-05-12T22:38:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/air-france-crashed-plane-s-black-boxes-probably-intact-investigator-says.html
Black-box flight recorders from the
Air  France  jetliner that crashed into the Atlantic almost two
years ago killing all 228 people on board are probably intact,
France’s BEA air-accident investigation bureau said today.  While “prolonged immersion” of the recorders in seawater
is more likely to have corrupted the data than the crash’s
impact, the BEA is “fairly confident” that the information is
intact, Jean-Paul Troadec, the bureau’s director, told
journalists.  Investigators retrieved Flight 447’s black boxes from a
depth of 3,900 meters (12,800 feet) weeks before the crash’s
second anniversary after three earlier searches failed. The
Airbus SAS A330’s last automated transmissions suggest faulty
airspeed readings may have caused the autopilot to shut down in
bad weather, a situation its crew were drilled to cope with.  Other wreckage from the seabed is being sent to France and
may help determine the cause of the crash even if the recorders
prove tough to decipher, Troadec said in a news conference at
the  BEA ’s Paris base, where the boxes were briefly displayed.  “The decoding operations can now begin,” he said. “We
have also recovered a large number of plane parts that will be
especially useful if there are problems reading the recorders.”  The plane’s airspeed sensors, known as Pitot tubes, may yet
be located as investigators today begin salvaging wreckage from
the shattered cockpit, Troadec said, adding that they aren’t
essential to the investigation if the flight data is complete.  Corpses  About 50 corpses are present at the site of the wreckage,
and while their recovery “isn’t necessary to the accident
investigation,” authorities are “not insensitive” to the
wishes of some families that the bodies be recovered, Deputy
Paris Prosecutor Jean Quintard said at the briefing.  DNA test results due on May 18 from two of the dead already
retrieved will determine whether attempts are made to bring more
to the surface. “If the bodies can’t be identified there is no
reason to recover them,” he said.  Work on the black boxes, which will take a few hours to
open, begins today, according to Christophe Menez, the BEA’s
technical director. While the preparation of the final report
will take several months, the bureau will seek to produce it by
early 2012, lead investigator Alain Bouillard said.  Memory Chips  The recorders, one storing flight data, the other cockpit
voices, house several dozen memory chips that may provide clues
to the flight’s demise. The challenge is to render them readable
after so long exposed to salt water and intense pressure.  In an e-mailed statement released today, two leaders of the
victims’ parents association said they believe it is possible to
identify the bodies based on DNA analysis.  Maarten Van Sluys and Nelson Marinho said in the statement
that they want the opportunity to have proper funerals for their
relations.  The investigators are reliant on the boxes because the
Airbus went down between  Brazil  and west Africa, beyond radio
contact and radar coverage.  Most accidents happen during takeoff or landing, witnessed
by bystanders and overheard by the control tower. Even then,
black boxes can prove crucial to unlocking an accident’s causes.  The boxes from the A330, made by  Honeywell International
Inc. (HON) , appeared to be in good shape when hauled from the seabed
last week. Still, seawater is likely to have penetrated their
orange cylindrical casings and soaked the memory boards.  Short Circuit  After a rinse in de-ionized water to remove salt and other
deposits that could cause a short circuit, the electronics will
be dried in a special oven and inspected under a microscope, BEA
investigator Philippe Plantin de Hugues said before the arrival
of the flight recorders. If circuit boards are damaged beyond
repair, each memory chip can be detached and read individually.  One unknown is whether the canisters have been spared from
corrosion by the low levels of oxygen at such a depth.  The voice recording alone, if successfully recovered, may
help to explain why the plane flew into a storm that others
deliberately avoided, and whether its captain, Marc Dubois, was
at the controls or had handed over to his co-pilots.  If the memory cards are intact, the cockpit audio may be
retrieved in as little as three days, Troadec said today in an
interview. The recording will first be heard by lead
investigator Bouillard, a second BEA official, a court-appointed
expert and a police officer, the BEA director said.  Information from the data recorder may show whether the
crew tried to re-engage the autopilot.  Preliminary findings published in December 2009 are based
almost entirely on messages relayed automatically by satellite
over a four-minute period. They catalog a series of failures
beginning with the malfunction of the airspeed sensors and
ending with a convergence of pressure measurements inside and
outside the cabin that suggests a rapid plunge in altitude.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ; 