-- 
Taiwan President Ma Seeks F-16 Jets, Submarines From U.S. as ‘Leverage’

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 
2011-05-13T07:31:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/taiwan-president-ma-seeks-f-16-jets-submarines-from-u-s-as-leverage-.html
President Ma Ying-Jeou of  Taiwan 
called for the U.S. to end years of stalling and provide
submarines and F-16 fighter jets to maintain “leverage” over
China as the two civil war foes negotiate closer ties.  “The U.S. must help Taiwan level the playing field” for
relations to continue improving, Ma said yesterday by video-link
from Taipei to a forum organized by the Washington-based Center
for Strategic and International Studies. “Negotiating with a
giant like the Chinese mainland is not without its risks.’  The U.S. goal of strengthening China ties has faltered
repeatedly on arms sales to Taiwan, which China considers its
territory and said it will invade to prevent formal independence.
Ma, who will seek re-election next year, has been accused by
opposition candidate Tsai Ing-wen of selling Taiwan short with a
policy of rapprochement that was “boxed in a frame set by
China.”  “This is something Taiwanese people want to hear from the
president,” said Chang Wu-ueh, a political science professor at
Taipei’s Tamkang University. “They want to know Ma’s willing to
take risks to protect Taiwan. The  Democratic Progressive Party 
has been attacking him as being too soft and weak.”  Taiwan’s request for new F-16 C/D fighters has been pending
since 2006, and upgrades of F-16 A/Bs are on hold. Washington
also has stalled a request for diesel-electric submarines.  Senator  Richard Lugar  of  Indiana , the top Republican on the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee, wrote to Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  last month to say Taiwan’s military faces an
“urgent” need for new  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-16s to avoid
being left without “credible” air combat capabilities.  Legal Obligation  State Department spokesman Mark Toner, responding to Ma’s
comments, cited the  1979 Taiwan Relations Act , which created the
legal authority for unofficial relations with the island nation,
including arms sales. The U.S., which that year switched its
diplomatic recognition to Beijing from Taipei, doesn’t support
independence for Taiwan.  “Our policy hasn’t changed,” Toner told reporters in
Washington yesterday. “We always act in accordance with the
Taiwan Relations Act.”  Leaders in Beijing must do more to ease the risk of
conflict with the nation across the  Taiwan Strait , said Bonnie Glaser, a senior fellow in the China program at the center.
China’s military has more than 1,500 missiles pointed at Taiwan,
according to the U.S. Defense Department.  “We have not seen any reduction in the military buildup
across the strait,” Glaser, who is an East Asia consultant to
the U.S. government, said after the forum with Ma. “This is an
area where China could make some gestures to Taiwan.”  Taiwan Election  Ma, who returned the Kuomintang party to power in 2008, is
pinning hopes for a second four-year term on his stewardship of
the economy and improved ties with China. Ma’s government has
signed 15 economic agreements with the mainland, as Taiwan’s
gross domestic product expanded 10.82 percent last year, the
fastest pace in 23 years.  The rapprochement with China “continues to bear fruit,”
Ma said yesterday. He cited Taiwan’s record total trade volume
of $526 billion last year and said he plans to diversify the
export market further by signing agreements with other nations
similar to the one reached with the mainland in 2010.  The improving relations between the two sides have spurred
interest from elsewhere, Ma said. He cited an increase in trade
with China of 15 percent in the first quarter compared with
rates of more than 30 percent with a group of nations in
 Southeast Asia  and with the U.S.  Crime Crackdown  Fraud is down after a crime crackdown on both sides of the
Taiwan Strait, Ma said. Visitors from China have helped create a
“tourism boom,” and Taiwan has seen a “surge” of companies
returning to be listed on the country’s stock exchange, he said.  The DPP opposes Ma’s pro-China policies, arguing that
cross-strait trade accords will allow more imports into Taiwan
and cost jobs. The party in June rallied tens of thousands of
people in the capital to protest the trade accords, saying they
will damage the local economy and undermine Taiwan’s sovereignty.  Improving the economic lot of the Taiwanese continues to
take precedence over any discussions with  China  about more
sensitive political issues, such as sovereignty, Ma said.  “We at the moment do not consider it is the most urgent
thing to tackle,” he said.  Ma understands how potentially divisive the issues of
sovereignty would be within Taiwan and between the two sides of
the strait, Glaser said.  “I think he correctly focused on the near-term issues that
affect the livelihood of the people of Taiwan,” Glaser said.
“The very, very difficult issues should not be put on the table
prematurely.”  Easing of restrictions by both governments on investment
into Taiwan has done little to boost the flow of capital from
China, economics ministry data show. Funds from China equaled 2
percent of Taiwan’s approved inbound foreign direct investment
in the nine months after the rules were relaxed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  