-- 
Taiwan’s Dollar Reverses Advance Amid Suspected Intervention

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u - H u a y   S u n
-- 
2011-05-12T09:02:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/taiwan-s-dollar-strengthens-for-a-fourth-day-on-growth-data.html
Taiwan ’s dollar reversed a gain in
the final minute of trading on suspected intervention by the
central bank to check appreciation that may hurt exports.  The currency halted a three-day advance fueled by
government reports in the past two weeks that showed the economy
expanded 6.19 percent in the first quarter, more than the median
5 percent estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey, while
exports rose 24.6 percent to a record in April.  “At the end of the day, the central bank won’t let the
Taiwan dollar appreciate too much,” said Eric Hsing, a fixed-
income trader at First Securities Inc. in Taipei. “The economic
situation would push the  Taiwan dollar ” higher, he said.  Overseas funds sold $103 million more Taiwanese shares than
they bought today, paring net purchases this year to $3 billion,
according to exchange data.  The Taiwan dollar fell 0.5 percent to NT$28.793 against its
U.S. counterpart at the 4 p.m. close local time, according to
Taipei Forex Inc. The currency touched NT$28.476 yesterday, the
strongest level since October 1997.  The local dollar was trading 0.1 percent stronger two
minutes before the end of trading and erased gains at the close
on suspected intervention by the central bank, according to two
traders who declined to be identified as the monetary authority
doesn’t disclose such details. Central banks intervene in
 currency markets  by arranging purchases or sales of foreign
exchange.  The Central Bank of the Republic of  China  (Taiwan)
increased inspections of foreign-currency transactions to catch
speculators, the Commercial Times reported today, citing
banking-industry executives it didn’t identify. The threshold
for transactions that may be inspected has been lowered to
$500,000 from $1 million, according to the report.  The yield on the 1 percent bond due January 2016 was little
changed at 1.095 percent, compared with 1.094 percent yesterday,
according to Gretai Securities Market, the island’s biggest
exchange for bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 