-- 
Alaska Offshore Oil Bill May Boost State Air Pollution, EPA Says

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-05-13T04:01:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/alaska-oil-drilling-legislation-may-boost-pollution-epa-official-says.html
A Republican proposal in the House
aimed at speeding up oil production in  Alaska  may expose the
state’s population to significant air pollution, the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency said in opposing the measure.  A bill,  proposed  by Representative Cory Gardner of
 Colorado , would block the EPA from enforcing health-based air
standards on any company drilling off Alaska’s coast,  Gina McCarthy , EPA assistant administrator, said in testimony for a
House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing today.  During the 168-day Arctic drilling season, “one
exploratory outer continental shelf source could emit
approximately as much on a daily basis as a large state-of-the
art refinery,” she said. Exempting companies “could result in
significant human exposure to air pollution from Outer
Continental Shelf sources, including nitrogen dioxide,
particles, sulfur dioxide, and pollution that causes ozone.”  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  canceled its plan to drill an
exploration well in the  Beaufort Sea  this year because the
Hague-based company didn’t obtain an air permit in time. Shell,
blocked since 2007 from developing its Alaska leases, filed a
drilling plan this month seeking U.S. approval for as many as
four Beaufort wells -- two in 2012 and two in 2013.  The Gardner bill also would make it more difficult for
local groups such as fishermen to appeal air permits issued by
the EPA. The legislation would require them to hire a lawyer in
 Washington , or fly their local attorney to the capital. Now they
can express their concerns via video conference, she said.  The EPA has nine air permits applications pending, McCarthy
said in her testimony.  “This bill will create tens of thousands of jobs, increase
 energy security , and lessen our dependence on foreign oil,”
Gardner said on April 13, when he offered a draft for
discussion. “It will add billions of dollars in salary to
Alaska and other states over the next several decades, bringing
good paying jobs to our country.”  -- Editors: Steve Geimann, Larry Liebert  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  