-- 
Allianz Profit Falls 45% on Japan, Lower Investment Gains

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-05-12T09:08:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/allianz-profit-in-property-casualty-falls-to-943-million-in-first-quarter.html
Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Europe ’s biggest insurer,
said net income in the first quarter declined 45 percent on
natural-disaster claims and lower investment gains.  Net income attributable to shareholders was 857 million
euros ($1.2 billion), the Munich-based insurer said in an e-
mailed statement today. Operating profit at the property and
casualty unit, Allianz’s most important in terms of earnings,
dropped 6.9 percent to 663 million euros, and group earnings on
that basis totaled 1.66 billion euros.  The insurer, led by Chief Executive Officer Michael Diekmann, 56, maintained its full-year forecast following a
series of natural disasters in the first quarter that included
the earthquake and tsunami in Japan. Allianz aims for operating
profit of 7.5 billion euros to 8.5 billion euros this year,
compared with 8.2 billion euros in 2010.  “The company must report higher profits going forward to
reach the target,”  Christian Muschick , a Frankfurt-based
analyst with Silvia Quandt & Cie. AG, wrote in a note to clients
today. “This should be possible if the natural-catastrophe
burden remains in normal boundaries.”  Allianz declined 2.1 percent to 99.49 euros as of 10:55
a.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock has risen 12 percent this year,
giving the company a market value of about 45 billion euros.
That compares with an 8 percent gain in the Bloomberg Europe 500
Insurance Index.  ‘Hardest Hits’  “For Allianz, the past quarter took one of the hardest
hits from natural catastrophes of any quarter in the last two
decades,” Chief Financial Officer Oliver Baete said in the
statement. “However, this effect was partly offset by operating
improvements in several core markets, positive price effects on
renewals and stable investment income.”  Net income in the year-earlier period had been boosted by a
522 million-euro gain from selling a stake in Chinese lender
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd. Allianz sold shares
in Beijing-based ICBC valued at about 100 million euros in the
first quarter of 2011.  At the property and casualty insurance unit, spending on
claims and other costs as a percentage of premiums, also known
as the combined ratio, worsened to 101.3 percent from 100.4
percent. A ratio above 100 percent means an insurer’s claims and
costs exceed premium income, giving it a loss from underwriting.  The “main positive surprise was the development in the
property and casualty business where the operating profit
declined by only 7 percent,” Philipp Haessler, a Frankfurt-
based analyst at Equinet AG wrote in a note to clients.  Japan Claims  The company said on May 4 that it expects claims of about
320 million euros from the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan .
Expenses from natural disasters  amounted  to 737 million euros in
the quarter, compared with 555 million euros a year ago. The
tornadoes that ripped through the U.S. South and Midwest last
month are expected to lead to net claims of 60 million euros,
Allianz said in the  quarterly report .  Insurers had their most costly start to a year in the first
quarter. Total insured losses from catastrophes including the
Japan earthquake, floods and a cyclone in Australia and a quake
in  New Zealand , are expected to top $52.6 billion in the period,
compared with $40.6 billion for the whole of 2010,  according  to
Aon Benfield, the reinsurance broker of Chicago-based Aon Corp.  Allianz’s solvency ratio, a measure of its ability to
absorb losses, rose to 180 percent in the quarter from 173
percent at the end of last year. That’s above a target range of
150 percent to 170 percent the insurer stated in the past. The
range is no longer important for Allianz as it doesn’t reflect
interest-rate movements, CFO Baete said in a conference call.  “There is still too much uncertainty regarding  capital
requirements  under the proposed Solvency II regulation for
insurers,” Baete said. “We don’t have too much capital from
today’s perspective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich Bureau at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  