-- 
Amnesty Sees ‘Critical Battle’ Over Mobile, Internet Control

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-05-12T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/amnesty-sees-critical-battle-over-mobile-internet-control.html
Amnesty International  said a
“critical battle” is taking place for control of mobile-phone
connections and Internet access after demonstrations against
governments in Tunisia and Egypt.  Governments cut off Internet and wireless services during
demonstrations in North Africa, and they are seeking to “regain
the initiative” by using the technology against protesters,
Amnesty said today in a report.  “Corporations that provide Internet access, cellular
communications and social networking sites and that support
digital media and communications need to respect human rights,”
Amnesty said. “They must not become the pawns or accomplices of
repressive governments who want to stifle expression and spy on
their people.”  In February,  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s largest
mobile-phone company, was ordered to send  text messages  to
encourage Egyptian customers to oppose demonstrators demanding
the ouster of President Hosni Mubarak, who was later forced to
resign. The messages were seen to instigate violence.  Egyptian authorities instructed the local mobile-network
operators, including Etisalat and  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Mobinil
service, to send messages under emergency powers provisions.
Vodafone said the messages were not written by the mobile-phone
operators.  Vodafone spokesman Bobby Leach declined to comment today.  In Libya, where rebels are making gains in the three-month
conflict against Muammar Qaddafi’s troops, Internet connections
have remained down since March. Internet traffic from Libya to
Google sites is almost non-existent, according to the company’s
 transparency  report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  