-- 
Analysts From Japan’s 24 Primary Dealers Comment on Shirakawa

-- B y   A k i   I t o ,   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-05-12T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/analysts-from-japan-s-24-primary-dealers-comment-on-shirakawa.html
Analysts from the 24 primary dealers
in the Japanese government bond market comment on Bank of  Japan 
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s performance, in addition to Japan’s
struggle with deflation and the power and limitations of
monetary policy.  Koji Shimamoto, Tokyo-based chief strategist at BNP Paribas
Securities Japan Ltd., a unit of France’s largest bank:  “The yen has stayed high before and after the quake.
Globally, many nations implemented a policy mix of fiscal
consolidation and monetary easing, but Japan was delayed in
taking that action. That has caused a unilateral gain in the yen
and has deepened deflation in Japan. Because of that, I agree
with the view that Japan’s economy stagnated relative to other
nations even before the earthquake with the BOJ’s delay.”  Seiji Adachi, a senior economist at Deutsche Securities Inc. in
Tokyo:  Compared with the  Federal Reserve ’s $600 billion program,
“the amount of bonds the BOJ is buying is small. Even though
the Fed took bold action in a short period of time, the  U.S.
economy  isn’t suffering from inflation and is on a recovery
track. Given that lesson, there’s a low probability that
Japanese inflation or bond yields will spike even if the BOJ
takes a similar step.”  Naoki Iizuka, a senior economist at Mizuho Securities Co. in
Tokyo.  “Before the earthquake, the impression was that the BOJ
repeatedly refused to move until it was finally forced to expand
stimulus by the market and under government pressure. The BOJ
looked like it was behind the curve.”  “This impression flipped after the earthquake; the BOJ has
been very swift in responding to the disaster. Its expansion of
monetary stimulus on March 14 defied market expectations.”  Mari Iwashita, chief market economist at SMBC Nikko Securities
Inc. in  Tokyo :  “Quantitative easing itself cannot end deflation. I agree
with the argument that Japan’s deflation is rooted in the
medium-to-long-term structural problems -- an aging population
with a falling birthrate and low productivity -- not because
Japan’s monetary stimulus has been smaller than that of the
U.S.”  Susumu Kato, chief economist for Japan at Credit Agricole CIB
and CLSA in Tokyo:  “I think Shirakawa should have pushed through somewhat
bolder macro policy. In terms of his performance, he is a very
orthodox central bank governor. Market participants feel that
his actions are a bit underwhelming, compared with the  European
Central Bank ’s so-called non-standard measures or what (Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben) Bernanke has been doing.”  Junko Nishioka, chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in
Tokyo and a former BOJ official:  “When a central bank takes on sole responsibility for
supporting the economy, the government loses its fiscal
discipline and expectations grow for policies that will only
devalue the currency. The BOJ has repeatedly defended that line
of underwriting debt and inflation targeting because it’s the
currency’s watchdog.”  Masaaki Kanno, former colleague of Shirakawa’s at the BOJ and
now chief Japan economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo:  “The BOJ’s done everything it can. There are so many
things that need to be done to promote growth, but you can’t
expect monetary policy to do that. What we really need is more
from the government, like deregulation and tax reform. People
are expecting too much from monetary policy.”  Hiromichi Shirakawa, chief Japan economist at Credit Suisse in
Tokyo and a former BOJ official:  “The BOJ’s policy mistakes began well before Governor
Shirakawa took office. The BOJ is now being forced to clean up
that mess. There are no quick ways to correct those mistakes,
and this makes it difficult to say whether Governor Shirakawa’s
policy management has been sufficient or not.”  Takehiro Sato, chief Japan economist at Morgan Stanley MUFG
Securities Co. in Tokyo:  “In the U.S. and Europe, central banks have taken policy
measures to expand their balance sheets, and their positive
effects have been noted.”  “Shirakawa holds the view of the Bank of International
Settlements, which is that it’s important to maintain a
tightening bias because asset bubbles need to be avoided.”  Takuji Aida, senior economist at UBS Securities Japan Ltd. in
Tokyo:  “People might say that the  Bank of Japan ’s easing wasn’t
sufficient, but when you consider that fiscal policy has been
tightening since 2003, you may feel sympathy toward the Bank of
Japan in that it’s faced so much pressure to try to overcome
deflation on its own.”  Akitsugu Bandou, senior economist at Okasan Securities Co. in
Tokyo:  “Markets and politicians have been pushing the Bank of
Japan to do one thing after another, but I don’t think the
measures they urged would have had much effect.”  “The Bank of Japan has done all it can.”  Chiwoong Lee, senior economist at Goldman Sachs Japan Co. in
Tokyo:  “Solely printing money isn’t going to create inflation.
Money has to be circulated, and the velocity of money is a
function of demand.”  “If you’re expecting them to lower the yen, I don’t think
that’s the BOJ’s role.”  Takahide Kiuchi, chief economist at Nomura Securities Co. in
Tokyo:  “The BOJ has responded promptly to currency spikes or
stock drops, but it hasn’t done anything when the market’s been
stable. We have to remember that Japan’s economy is still in a
very tough situation where it’s been stuck in deflation for more
than a decade.”  “It should think about bolstering the economic outlook
over a broader horizon by expanding bond purchases to boost
stocks and weaken the yen.”  Yuji Shimanaka, chief economist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co. in Tokyo:  “I understand the BOJ’s desire to wait and see how
effective its quantitative easing measures will be and also
whether the dollar and the euro will keep weakening before the
bank moves further. But this wait-and-see approach is risky
because it can’t let the market think it’s moving too slow. The
BOJ needs to consistently make the first move, to be ahead of
the market.”  Koji Ochiai, chief market economist at Mizuho Investors
Securities Co. in Tokyo:  “As an academic, Shirakawa has put a strong emphasis on
theory. There are certain things he will never budge on, like
never allowing the policy rate to go all the way to zero. This
is based on the bank’s mistakes in the past -- the zero-rate
policy killed interbank lending.”  Daisuke Karakama, a market economist Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.
in Tokyo:  “The BOJ deserves a lot of praise for the way it responded
to the earthquake. It demonstrated its commitment to stabilize
the markets by boosting reserves to 40 trillion yen, and it’s
hard to come up with any criticism of how the BOJ responded.”  Daisuke Uno, chief strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp.
in Tokyo:  “There’s a limit to what monetary policy can do --
especially in a situation like this where the economy has taken
a hit because of supply constraints. There’s not much the BOJ
can do in a situation like this and I suspect that’s a very
frustrating situation for the BOJ.”  “Given the fact that Shirakawa pulled Japan through a
once-in-a-century financial crisis and a once-in-a-millennium
earthquake, I think he will be remembered as a very good central
banker.”  Minori Uchida, senior analyst at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd. in Tokyo:  “As Shirakawa himself always says, monetary policy alone
can’t defeat deflation. Even if the BOJ eases further, it won’t
be that effective.”  “If monetary easing alone could beat deflation, we
wouldn’t have had 15 years of deflation. That really shows that
monetary policy alone doesn’t have the power to beat
deflation.”  Kyohei Morita, chief Japan economist at  Barclays Capital  in
Tokyo:  “Looking back on the past three years, a lot of the policy
changes were reported by the press before the announcements, and
the BOJ was forced to move through swings in the foreign-
exchange market. The BOJ wasn’t able to lead in the sense that
it was forced to determine policy by the market.”  Masayuki Kichikawa, chief Japan economist at Bank of America-
Merrill Lynch in Tokyo:  “I’m afraid the BOJ may be coming back to take a wait-and-
see stance that it held in the pre-quake period. Given that
there is no fear of inflation now, the bank acknowledges the
economy’s risk is tilted to the downside, and the yen is
hovering around 80 per dollar, the bank should consider taking a
more proactive stance.”  “The BOJ has been conservative in order to avoid making
mistakes, and its tolerance for policy failures is lower than
its U.S. and European counterparts. I believe that’s because the
BOJ has had a shorter history of independence than its
counterparts in the U.S. and  Europe .”  Kiichi Murashima, chief economist at Citigroup Global Markets
Japan Inc. in Tokyo:  “The BOJ has basically done all it can do, though I’m not
sure it’s appropriate to say they were fully sufficient.  “Shirakawa’s inflation rhetoric has a hawkish bias, while
Japan’s current price movements clearly warrant attention for
downside risks. The governor and the central bank haven’t
explicitly acknowledged the downside risks for prices until
recently.”  Maiko Noguchi, an economist at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets
in Tokyo:  “The effect of the earthquake on the Japanese economy is
still being examined, and even though anxiety has prevailed,
it’s hard to tell how much the central bank should respond to
calls for more actions at this point. The bank has done what it
needs to do for now and is also suggesting it will take more
action if needed.”  Yasuo Yamamoto, a senior economist at Mizuho Research Institute
in Tokyo:  “There was a policy misstep last August, when markets had
expected the Fed to ease policy in QE2 and the yen was poised to
advance, but the BOJ didn’t take any action at its regular
monthly meeting. The Japanese currency jumped as a result.”  “Even though the issue of currency isn’t in the central
bank’s jurisdiction, a strong yen affects the development of the
economy and prices a lot.”  Kazuhiko Sano, chief strategist at Tokai Tokyo Securities Co. in
Tokyo:  “Japan’s deflation has continued as its population is
shrinking, people can’t expect high growth and have been
discouraged from spending. The economy is already in a
deflationary equilibrium.”  “The Bank of Japan has done the best it can do, and its
moves were pretty swift” after the earthquake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  