-- 
U.K. Manufacturing Output Rose Less Than Forecast in March

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-12T08:58:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/manufacturing-output-rises-less-than-forecast-in-march-as-recovery-wilts.html
U.K. manufacturing rose less than
economists forecast in March as production of electrical
equipment and durable  consumer goods  declined.  Factory output climbed 0.2 percent from February, the
 Office for National Statistics  said today in London. The median
forecast of 24 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for an
increase of 0.3 percent. Overall industrial production rose 0.3
percent, less than the 0.8 percent forecast by economists.  In the first quarter, industrial output rose 0.2 percent,
less than the 0.4 percent estimate in gross-domestic-product
data published on April 27, the statistics office said. The
revision will have a “minimal downward impact” of “less
than” 0.05 percentage points on GDP data for that period.  The report adds to evidence the recovery in manufacturing
may be losing momentum as the government’s fiscal squeeze hurts
the economy, countering the benefit to exporters from a weaker
pound.  Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King said yesterday that
while policy makers believe the recent “softness” in the
economy will be temporary, there are “clear downside risks.”  “The manufacturing picture is marginally weaker, but it’s
nothing to be overly concerned about,” said Philip Rush, an
economist at Nomura International in London. “The underlying
performance is still pretty robust.”  The pound extended its decline against the dollar after the
report and traded at $1.6282 as of 9:55 a.m. in London, down 0.4
percent on the day.  Oil and Gas  From a year earlier, manufacturing rose 2.7 percent in
March. Overall industrial output, which includes mining and
quarrying and utilities, increased 0.7 percent.  Production in the oil and gas industries rose 0.6 percent
in March from the previous month, when it dropped 7.8 percent
during maintenance of sites, according to the statistics office.
Rush said the rebound in March was less than had been expected.  Out of 13 categories in manufacturing, seven rose and six
declined in March from the previous month, the statistics office
said. The main increases were recorded in paper printing, and
food and drink, while the biggest declines were in electrical
and optical equipment, transport gear and basic metals.  Manufacturing of  consumer durables  fell 0.9 percent on the
month, while capital goods dropped 0.8 percent.  ‘Challenging’  The U.K. economy grew 0.5 percent in the three months
through March, barely enough to erase the contraction in the
previous quarter.  PZ Cussons Plc (PZC) , the U.K. maker of Imperial
Leather soap, said last month that trading conditions in the
U.K. in the 11 weeks through April 13 were “challenging” as it
offered discounts and prices of raw materials rose.  Manufacturing has strengthened from a year earlier in every
one of the past 14 months, the statistics office said. The index
for manufacturing is now at its highest since October 2008.  The pound has dropped by about a quarter on a trade-
weighted basis since the start of 2007, boosting the
competitiveness of British exports. King said yesterday he hopes
a pickup in exports will help drive the economic recovery this
year. Policy makers kept their key interest rate a record low
this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  