-- 
U.S. Apartment Rents and Occupancies Seen Set to Rise

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-05-12T18:15:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/apartment-rents-and-occupancies-are-poised-to-rise-in-u-s-economists-say.html
Apartment rents and occupancies are
likely to continue to rise as the U.S. home and labor markets
remain depressed, economists said at a conference sponsored by
investment-advisory firm Bentall Kennedy.  “There are fewer jobs today than 10 years ago,” said Doug Poutasse, head of North American strategy and research at
Toronto-based Bentall Kennedy, which oversees $23 billion of
real estate assets. “There has been a tremendous demographic
shift.”  U.S. apartment vacancies dropped to the lowest in almost
three years in the first quarter as the weak homebuying market
fueled demand for rentals, according to  Reis Inc. (REIS)  Job prospects
in the U.S. weakened in April for the first time in seven
months, a sign that employers may add fewer workers to payrolls
in the second half of 2011.  An estimated 4 million to 4.5 million people per year in
their 20s and early 30s are entering the housing market at a
time when 28 percent of American homeowners with mortgages owe
more than their houses are worth, Poutasse said yesterday at the
conference in Vancouver. So-called echo-boomers desire mobility
and see properties with negative equity as a hindrance to
selling and moving elsewhere, he said.  “This generation isn’t going to behave the same way with
housing,” Poutasse said.  Three-fourths of U.S. cities had declines in  home prices  in
the first quarter, according to the National Association of
Realtors. The decrease in prices has turned homeownership from a
source of financial security to a burden for many people, said
speakers at the conference.  ‘Source of Risk’  “Now it’s the source of risk,” said  Karl Case , professor
emeritus of economics at  Wellesley College  and co-creator of the
Standard & Poor’s/Case-Shiller home-price indexes.  While the decline in prices has made buying relatively more
attractive than at the market’s peak, qualifying for a mortgage
is now more difficult, the economists said. Loan costs also are
poised to increase, they said.  “Interest rates are likely to rise a lot because the
economy is expanding,” said  Ray Fair , an economics professor at
 Yale University . “Within a year, inflation is going to be
higher than the market thinks.”  Inflation may help the balance sheets of government-owned
mortgage buyers  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  while hurting
consumers, Case said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Vancouver at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  