-- 
Apocalypse Angst Adds to Terrorist Threat as Rich Russians Acquire Bunkers

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-05-12T20:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/apocalypse-angst-adds-to-terrorist-threat-as-rich-russians-acquire-bunkers.html
Terrorism can be good for bunker
builders. An apocalypse can be even better for business.  Danila Andreyev started building “panic rooms” three
years ago, when fears of terrorist attacks and commercial
disputes turning violent created demand in  Russia . Now he’s
selling “survival bunkers” for as much as $400,000 each to
capitalize on angst over theories the world will end next year.  “I myself am not a believer in doomsday scenarios,”
Andreyev, 31, whose  Spetsgeoproekt  company is completing 15
bunkers at hidden locations across Russia, said at his office in
central Moscow. “But when you start hearing clients talking
about the end of the world, it gets you thinking.”  While Russia has been a target for terrorists, with 37
people dying in a blast at Moscow’s busiest airport in January,
more people are looking to protect themselves from what Andreyev
calls a “global cataclysm” in 2012 based on predictions such
as interpretations of the ancient Mayan calendar.  Northwest  Shelter Systems, a company based in Sandpoint,
 Idaho , that specializes in nuclear bomb shelters, has seen the
number of inquiries from potential customers rise as much as 60
percent since the March tsunami and earthquake in Japan, Allen
Thompson, vice president, said by e-mail.  The  Vivos  Group, a California-based bunker builder with a
website that features a meteor striking Earth, said requests for
a shelter in one of its facilities jumped by 10 times since the
disaster, which left about 25,000 people dead or missing.  Be Prepared  “Hundreds of applications” come from Russia and other
former Soviet states, Vivos founder Robert Vicino said by e-
mail. The nearest Vivos shelter is at an unidentified location
in central  Europe , he said. It costs about $25,000 per person.  “Every person has a different belief or sense of what may
be ahead for all of us,” Vicino said. “Vivos is not about
2012, but having a life assurance solution for our families for
whenever disaster strikes.”  Vivos is building facilities in the U.S. and elsewhere. It
said in January it was considering buying a two-story bunker
constructed for the U.K. government in 1990 in rural  Scotland .  Spetsgeoproekt , which stands for Special Geological
Projects, plans to open a showroom in the affluent Moscow
neighborhood of Rublevka this year and is expanding into
Russia’s regions, Andreyev said.  The company’s bunkers range from 35 to 90 square meters
(377 to 969 square feet). Maintaining the unit, including the
air system, runs about $2,500 a year, he said.  Avoiding Floods  Altai, the mountainous southern Siberian region that
borders China, Mongolia and  Kazakhstan , is of particular
interest because it’s believed to be “flood proof,” Andreyev
said.  Spetsgeoproekt  started building  an  80 square-meter,
$350,000 bunker in Altai.  “They all say the same thing: Next year there’ll be a
polar shift or something and most of Russia will be flooded
except for Altai and a few other regions,” Andreyev said.  Alexei, 35, one of Andreyev’s clients, said distress over
the coming apocalypse prompted him in February to order the
construction of a $150,000 bunker big enough to shelter eight
people outside of Moscow. He declined to give his full name to
keep it secret that he ordered a bunker.  Something catastrophic will certainly happen next year,
Alexei said in a telephone interview.  “It all points to some shake-up on Dec. 21, 2012,” Alexei
said, citing his interpretations of the doomsday predictions of
16th century French apothecary  Nostradamus , the blind Bulgarian
mystic Baba Vanga and the  Mayan  calendar.  Soviet Designs  Andreyev said his bunkers are based on Soviet military
designs from the 1970s and modified with modern technologies.
The walls resemble those used in nuclear power stations and the
air systems are akin to those used in spaceships and submarines.
The doors are similar to those in Swiss bank vaults, he said.  Russia has a history of bunker building, particularly
during the  Cold War  amid fears of a nuclear attack.  Several previously secret facilities in and around Moscow
opened to the public since the collapse of the  Soviet Union  in
1991, including a 7,000 square-meter compound 60 meters below
Taganka Square in central Moscow that’s been turned into a Cold
War  museum . It can be rented for parties and weddings.  It may be a sign of the times that Yevgeny Ubiyko, a former
Red Army engineer who served in what was once  Czechoslovakia ,
feels the need to start producing floating  bunker s. Ubiyko, 45,
built his own 32 square-meter “mobile safe” that he now
advertises on his website, offering to replicate it for anyone
willing to pay at least $80,000. He has four orders so far.  “With seismic activity increasing and abnormal weather
events becoming more frequent, it’s clear the trend is such that
soon the recent earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  will seem like a
minor event,” Ubiyko said by telephone. “People are starting
to think about shelters, like Noah and his ark.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net  