-- 
Kodak Gains After Winning Decision in Case Against Apple

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-05-13T20:09:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/apple-loses-ruling-in-patent-case-against-kodak-before-itc-1-.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  climbed 5 percent
in New York trading after a U.S. International Trade Commission
judge said its digital-camera technology doesn’t violate  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s patent rights.  Neither of the two patents in Apple’s case before the ITC
were being infringed, and one of the patents is invalid, Judge
Robert Rogers in Washington said yesterday. The judge’s findings
are subject to review by the six-member ITC, which has the power
to block imports of products that infringe U.S. patents.  Apple, maker of the iPhone and iPad tablet computer, filed
its case in April 2010, about three months after Rochester, New
York-based Kodak accused Apple and BlackBerry maker Research In
Motion Ltd. of infringing a patent related to ways of previewing
images. The ITC in March said it would review a judge’s findings
in that case, which went in favor of Apple and RIM.  Kodak filed its initial complaint to force Cupertino,
California-based Apple and Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM to pay
patent royalties. Kodak Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez
has said a victory in the dispute may generate as much as $1
billion in new licensing revenue.  The complaint targeted products Kodak makes overseas and
sells in the U.S., including the Kodak Z series, M series, C
series and Slice cameras, as well as video cameras including the
Playsport.  Kodak rose 15 cents to $3 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Earlier the stock rose as high as
$3.09. The shares have fallen 16 percent this year.  David Lanzillo, a spokesman for Kodak, said in a statement
yesterday that the company is pleased by the ruling.  The case is In the Matter of Digital Imaging Devices and
Related Software, 337-717, U.S. International Trade Commission
( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  