-- 
Asian Currencies Drop as Renewed European Debt Concern Deters Risk Taking

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-05-12T08:47:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/asian-currencies-drop-as-renewed-european-debt-concern-deters-risk-taking.html
Asian currencies dropped, led by
 South Korea ’s won and Malaysia’s ringgit, as renewed concern
about Europe’s debt crisis bolstered demand for safe-haven
assets such as the dollar.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional stocks fell by the
most since March and the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw
materials slumped on concern Greece may not receive additional
aid fast enough to avoid debt restructuring. Official data
released yesterday showed industrial production growth in
Malaysia and China is slowing as Asian central banks raise
interest rates to tackle inflation.  “When people are not sure about the situation in Europe,
they sell the riskier assets,” said Norawit Suparinayok, a
foreign-exchange trader at Bangkok Bank Pcl. “Commodities and
stocks were sold, while more people bought the dollar.”  The won fell 0.9 percent, the most in three months, to
1,085.15 per dollar as of the 3 p.m. close in  Seoul , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The ringgit weakened 1 percent to
3.0109, the Thai baht slid 0.7 percent to 30.29 and Singapore’s
dollar dropped 1.1 percent to S$1.2424.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said this week Greece needs
to stay on the budget-cutting course to win an increase in a 110
billion euro ($156 billion) lifeline granted a year ago.  “A debt restructuring in Greece would have major
consequences on the soundness of the banking sector in Greece,”
EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said
yesterday. “Such a major banking crisis would lead to a massive
credit crunch,” Rehn said at the European Parliament in
Strasbourg, France.  The ringgit declined the most in two months after data
showed production at  Malaysia ’s factories, utilities and mines
rose 2.4 percent from a year earlier in March after gaining a
revised 5.2 percent in February, the statistics department said.  Policy Tightening Risk  “The swings in commodity prices are making people cautious
about taking on too much risk,” said Wan Suhaimi Saidi, an
economist at Kenanga Investment Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur .
“There’s a risk that policy tightening will become a drag on
economic growth.”  China’s yuan dropped for a second day after data showed
industrial output rose 13.4 percent in April from a year earlier,
compared with 14.8 percent the previous month. The yuan
retreated 0.11 percent to 6.5000 per dollar.  Indonesia’s rupiah declined, halting a four-day rally. Bank
Indonesia kept its benchmark reference rate unchanged at 6.75
percent today, a decision that was predicted by all 10
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The rupiah fell 0.4
percent to 8,558.  “There is a need at some point for the central bank to
raise  interest rates  given that all the inflationary pressures
are not imported in nature,” said  Prakriti Sofat , an economist
at  Barclays Capital  in Singapore.  Elsewhere, India’s rupee slid 0.6 percent to 44.9500
against the dollar. The Philippine peso dropped 0.5 percent to
43.105, the  Taiwan dollar  fell 0.5 percent NT$28.793 and
Vietnam’s dong declined 0.1 percent to 20,590.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  