-- 
Stocks, Commodities Advance as Dollar Index Retreats; Treasuries Decline

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-05-12T20:07:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/asian-stocks-ringgit-drop-on-commodities-retreat-earnings-euro-advances.html
U.S. stocks rose and commodities
erased losses, while the Dollar Index retreated, as riskier
assets recovered from an early slump amid speculation that
recent declines were excessive. Treasuries slid after an auction
of 30-year bonds drew the weakest demand in six months.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.5 percent to
1,348.65 at 4 p.m. in  New York  after slumping as much as 0.8
percent. The S&P GSCI Index of commodities climbed less than 0.1
percent after tumbling as much as 2.3 percent. Sugar, hogs and
soybeans led gains and oil rose 0.8 percent to $98.97 a barrel.
The Dollar Index, which tracks the currency versus six major
peers, lost 0.2 percent to reverse an early gain. Yields on 30-
year Treasuries rose four basis points to 4.35 percent.  Declines in energy and raw material prices yesterday and
early today threatened to wipe out a two-day rebound in the S&P
GSCI Index from last week’s 11 percent slump, its worst since
2008. Shares of oil and mining companies dragged the  S&P 500 
last week to its biggest drop since March.  Steven A. Cohen , the
billionaire founder of hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors LP, said
the sell-off in commodity markets makes this a good time to buy
stock in energy companies.  “We’re seeing a reversal of the trend of commodities
taking a hit as the dollar rises,” said  Michael Nasto , senior
trader at U.S. Global Investors Inc., which manages about $3
billion in  San Antonio . “There was nothing fundamental about
what happened over the last few days. It was just a reversal of
a trend. The economic recovery is in place and there will be
demand for commodities and riskier assets.”  ETF Fund Flows  The U.S. Oil Fund and Market Vectors Agribusiness ETF
attracted more money than any other U.S. exchange-traded fund in
the past week following the biggest retreat in commodity prices
in more than two years.  The ETF that tracks the price of oil drew $514.4 million in
the past week, according to data from New York-based research
firm XTF Inc. The agriculture fund, which tracks the share
prices of 46 companies such as Deere & Co. and Syngenta AG, got
$500.9 million, the data show.  Investors “are not yet willing to give up on the weak
dollar and inflation trade,” said Nicholas Colas, the New York-
based chief market strategist at BNY ConvergEx Group LLC. “They
are cycling into agriculture and energy-oriented investments,
even though the price action is choppy.”  ‘Interesting Sector’  Energy is “an interesting sector,” SAC’s Cohen said
yesterday at the SALT, or SkyBridge Alternatives, Conference in
 Las Vegas . “I think that energy stocks are discounting oil
prices much lower than where we are trading today.”  The S&P GSCI commodity gauge had rallied 20 percent and the
S&P 500 had risen 8.4 percent before last week’s rout. Earlier
losses in stocks today came after China moved to curb lending
and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  forecast earnings that trailed analysts’
estimates.  International Business Machines Corp., Merck & Co. and
Coca-Cola Co. climbed at least 1.5 percent to lead gains in 21
of 30 stocks in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  today.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. and Schlumberger Ltd.
rose, reversing declines.  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , the world’s biggest
maker of security software, climbed 5.2 percent after
forecasting higher revenue than analysts estimated. Tyson Foods
Inc. added 4.6 percent after the biggest U.S. meat processor
announced a stock buyback.  Goldman Sachs Drops  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  declined the most since January,
losing 3.5 percent. Richard X. Bove, analyst at Rochdale
Securities LLC, told investors to sell the stock on concern that
the  Department of Justice  faces growing pressure to bring claims
against the firm.  Treasuries extended losses after the government’s $16
billion sale of 30-year bonds. The bid-to-cover ratio, which
gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount offered,
was 2.43, the least since November and down from an average of
2.7 at the past 10 sales. The bonds drew a yield of 4.38
percent, compared with an average forecast of 4.343 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of eight of the  Federal Reserve ’s 20
primary dealers. The sale was the final of three auctions this
week totaling $72 billion.  In economic data, the Labor Department said jobless claims
fell to 434,000 in the week ended May 7, compared with 430,000
claims forecast in a Bloomberg survey. Other reports showed the
 producer price index  increased 0.8 percent, more than estimated,
while retail sales increased 0.5 percent, the slowest pace since
July.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 0.7 percent, the biggest
drop in a week. Losses were led by energy and basic-resources
companies, with European exchanges closing before the rebound in
commodities.  Emerging Markets Slump   The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 1.5 percent, heading
for the lowest close since March 29.  China ’s Shanghai Composite
Index retreated for a second day, losing 1.4 percent.  South
Korea ’s Kospi Index sank 2 percent, the biggest drop since March
15. Russia’s Micex Index lost 1.5 percent.  Global investors have tempered their optimism about the
U.S. and world economies and plan to put more of their money in
cash and less in commodities over the next six months, a
Bloomberg survey found.  Almost one in three of those questioned say they will hold
more cash, while 30 percent intend to reduce investments in
commodities, according to a quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll of
1,263 investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg
subscribers. Both results were the highest since the survey
began asking the question last June.  A plurality -- 40 percent -- expects  oil prices  to fall in
the next six months, the first time respondents felt that way
since the inception of this poll in July 2009.  Most global investors predict China’s yuan will be
convertible into other currencies by 2016, with 50 percent
seeing it joining the dollar, yen and euro as a reserve currency
within a decade, the Bloomberg poll indicated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 