-- 
Asia Bourse M&A Unlikely Amid Fragmented Regulation, Bocker Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 
2011-05-12T11:17:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/asia-bourse-m-a-unlikely-amid-fragmented-regulation-bocker-says.html
Exchange mergers in  Asia  will be
difficult to achieve in the near term as markets in the region
are in various stages of development and have different rules,
said Magnus Bocker, chief executive of  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)   Bocker, who stitched together eight European  stock
exchanges  under OMX and later merged the combined entity with
Nasdaq, led the  Singapore  bourse operator’s unsuccessful bid for
 Australia ’s  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan rejected
the A$8.4 billion ($8.9 billion) offer on April 8, saying the
deal was not in his nation’s interest.  “Exchange mergers in Europe were driven by regulations,”
Bocker said at a conference organized by the Investment
Management Association of Singapore in the city. “After the
monetary union was created, Europe needed to make the market
more efficient to compete with the U.S. Asia is a lot different
as each country has varied stages of development and rules.”  Pressure on rival exchanges to consolidate is increasing as
the fight to attract global capital intensifies. This year,
 Europe ’s Deutsche Boerse AG and NYSE Euronext agreed to merge,
while London Stock Exchange Group Plc said it would buy Canada’s
TMX Group Inc. Swan said in April that Singapore Exchange’s
proposal was not a merger but a takeover that would see a
competitor takeover ASX.  ‘National Assets’  Exchange mergers in Asia will be difficult in the near term,
as they are seen as national assets or public utility, Chief
Strategy Officer of the Stock Exchange of Thailand Veerathai
Santiprabhob said in  Tokyo  today.  “In the West, there have been many exchanges in a country
for a long time but in Asia, it tends to be one exchange per
country, set up by special commissions with heavy government
involvement,” said Veerathai. “That’s why exchanges have been
perceived as national utilities or assets.”  A merger of the Singaporean and Australian bourses would
have created the world’s fifth-largest bourse, helping the
combined entity attract more business away from Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., the world’s most profitable exchange.
Since the deal was announced in October, exchanges worldwide
have announced mergers valued at about $20 billion.  Singapore Exchange  was aware that the ASX deal, which
required approvals from foreign investment and competition
regulators as well as parliamentary support to change a law that
limited ownership of the bourse by single shareholders to 15
percent, carried a “big political risk,” Bocker said. “We
took a chance because ASX was a fantastic opportunity.”  The Singapore Exchange remains open to merger opportunities
although its priority is to grow its existing business, Bocker
said. “There’s so much more to do in Asia. We need to focus
more on improving efficiencies rather than think about
mergers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 