-- 
Latvian Central Bank Keeps Main Rate for Seventh Meeting

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-05-12T11:29:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/latvian-central-bank-keeps-main-rate-for-seventh-meeting-1-.html
Latvia’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a seventh meeting as the
economy continues to recover from its worst recession.  The refinancing rate was held at 3.5 percent, Governor
Ilmars Rimsevics told reporters today in Riga. The bank has cut
the rate a total of 2.5 percentage points since March 2009.  Latvia’s economy is recovering after shrinking a cumulative
25 percent since 2008, the deepest contraction in the world.
Economic output, which grew an annual 3.4 percent in the first
quarter, may expand by about 4 percent for the full year,
according to Swedbank AB, the biggest bank in the Baltic states.  “Taking into account the gradual recovery of the economy
and the fact that the current inflation risk factors are not
related to a rise in demand and risks to  price stability  in the
medium term are limited, the Bank of Latvia Council today
resolved to leave unchanged the interest rates and the mandatory
reserve requirement,” the bank said in a statement.  The country turned to a group led by the European
Commission and the  International Monetary Fund  for a 7.5
billion-euro ($10.7 billion) loan in November 2008 and has
implemented austerity measures including tax increases and
spending cuts of more than 16 percent of gross domestic product.  Inflation  Consumer prices increased an annual 4.5 percent in April,
the fastest growth since May 2009, as the cost of fuel and food
accelerated.  “The rise in inflation at the beginning of the year is
determined by supply side factors and administrative decisions,
such as the raising of taxes,” according to the statement.
“The demand side is still acting as an inflation limiting
factor: the development of wages and consumption is quite
moderate; unemployment is dropping slightly yet it remains high,
and bank lending is still contracting.”  Borrowing in lats for three months on the Rigibor, the
country’s interbank lending market, was a record 63.6 basis
points lower than the three-month Euribor today. The spread
between the two rates turned negative on Nov. 5, a day after the
central bank cut two short-term  interest rates . It reached a
high of 2,868 basis points in June 2009, when speculation
mounted that the lats currency would be devalued.  The refinancing rate affects the minimum interest rate on
central bank swaps and  repurchase agreements , worth about 75
million lati ($150.2 million) a week. The bank runs a quasi-
currency-board system, where lati in circulation are backed by
foreign currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  