-- 
British Airways, Flight Attendants Complete Talks to Resolve Labor Dispute

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-05-12T15:38:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/ba-union-reaches-accord-with-airline-on-dispute.html
British Airways’s cabin-crew union
said it reached an agreement with management aimed at resolving
a dispute over pay, staffing levels and the treatment of
strikers that has bedeviled the carrier for more than two years.  The Unite union will recommend that members accept the deal
after BA agreed to restore travel perks in full to those who
participated in the walkouts, General Secretary Len McCluskey
said today at a press conference near  London ’s Heathrow airport.  British Airways Chief Executive Officer Keith Williams said
in March he aimed to end the dispute after succeeding  Willie Walsh , who now runs parent company International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA. The agreement, which includes a pay raise,
enshrines a new working structure that BA says will slash costs.  “We are delighted to have reached an agreement which I
believe recognizes the rights and dignity of cabin crew as well
as the commercial requirements of the company,” said McCluskey,
who was also new to the talks after becoming Unite’s leader this
year. Cabin crew will be balloted over the next month, he said.  Carrier ‘Pleased’  BA is “very pleased” that the threat of  strike action  has
been lifted and that the deal acknowledges the permanency of
some of the fundamental changes which prompted the walkouts, it
said in a statement. Flight attendants first voted for action
after cuts to the number of staff on its long-haul flights.  The dispute had been deadlocked since Unite pulled back
from a deal in November after BASSA branch officials pushed for
concessions including full restoration of perks for strikers and
binding arbitration on disciplinary cases, something which has
also been granted as part of today’s deal, Unite said.  After the sides resumed negotiations with Williams at the
helm, the new CEO on April 14 approved a 28-day extension to a
Unite strike mandate that would otherwise have expired the next
day, keeping the union at the table.  Negotiations were concluded “to the satisfaction of both
parties,” according to an e-mail sent to members by BASSA
yesterday. McCluskey said today he’s “very confident” the deal
will be approved by members.  Pay Settlement  As part of the agreement, cabin crew will receive pay
increases of 4 percent this year and 3.5 percent next year,
McCluskey said, derived from an inflation-linked enhancement
plus a raise based on worker productivity.  Workers who were docked wages while “genuinely” sick during
last year’s strikes will also have the sum repaid, and cabin
crew have been promised that they won’t lose out in a transition
to a “mixed fleet” including staff hired at lower rates.  British Airways succeeded in keeping most flights operating
during five strikes spanning 22 days last year by using
volunteer staff and hiring in extra planes and crews.  “BA coped very well during the strike and this looks like
a positive for them,” said  Stephen Furlong , an analyst at Davy
Stockbrokers in Dublin with an “underperform” rating on IAG
stock. “This has been such a long-standing dispute and with
that uncertainty going it’s certainly helpful.”  IAG closed 0.04 percent lower at 246.3 pence in London,
valuing the company -- formed from BA’s merger with  Spain ’s
Iberia in January -- at 4.57 billion pounds ($7.44 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  