-- 
Bahrain Will Hold Elections Sept. 24 for Vacant Parliament Seats

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-05-12T08:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/bahrain-will-hold-elections-sept-24-for-vacant-parliament-seats.html
Bahrain will hold elections on Sept.
24 to fill at least 18 vacant seats in parliament after Muslim
Shiite opposition members resigned to protest the government’s
crackdown on pro-democracy rallies.  A second round of voting will take place on Oct. 1, the
official Bahrain News Agency reported, citing Justice Minister
Sheikh Khalid bin Ali Al Khalifa.  Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet, declared
martial law in March as it sought to quell mainly Shiite
demonstrations calling for more democracy and civil rights after
popular uprisings ousted rulers in Egypt and  Tunisia  earlier
this year. Bahrain’s King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa issued a
royal decree on May 8 declaring an end to the nationwide state
of emergency from June 1.  Lawmakers from al-Wefaq, the country’s largest Shiite
opposition bloc, quit parliament in February to protest attacks
on demonstrators by security forces. In elections in October,
 al-Wefaq  won 18 of the 40 lower seats in parliament.  Bahraini security forces earlier this month arrested Mattar
Ibrahim Ali Mattar and Jawad Fairoz, members al-Wefaq, in
Manama.  Human Rights Watch  said it documented “the routine use
of torture” by Bahraini authorities during interrogations in
political and security-related cases, according to a May 10
statement on its website.  Shiites make up about 70 percent of the Bahraini population
of less than 1 million and many retain cultural and family ties
with  Iran  as well as with Muslims of the same sect in  Saudi
Arabia . During the unrest, Shiites also called for an end to job
and housing discrimination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  