-- 
Baltic Economic Growth Set to Slow as Export Capacity, Demand Are Capped

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s   a n d   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-05-12T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/baltic-growth-set-to-slow-as-export-capacity-demand-are-capped.html
The Baltic economies of Estonia and
 Lithuania  will probably slow from first-quarter peaks as
capacity constraints limit exports, their main growth engine,
and demand from abroad wanes, analysts said.  Having been hit hard by the global economic crisis, Estonia
and Lithuania notched the quickest growth rates in at least
three years as austerity helped improve competitiveness, which
fuelled exports and manufacturing. Their pace was the fastest
among European Union nations that have reported first-quarter
data. Latvia also outpaced most developed nations.  The pace of expansion may not be sustained because
factories are approaching full production capacity at the local
units of companies such as Ericsson AB and  Elcoteq SE (ELQAV) , said
analysts including  Neil Shearing  at  Capital Economics . The
comparison with slower growth in the beginning of last year will
also disappear, crimping future GDP data, they said.  “Baltic first-quarter growth results were likely a peak for
the cycle as export capacity limits have more or less been
reached and there’s no room for domestic policy stimulus if
external demand softens, as I suspect it will,” Shearing said by
phone.  Capacity utilization in  Estonia , where gross domestic
product grew an annual 8 percent in the January-March period,
averaged 72 percent in April, according to the privately owned
Konjunktuuriinstituut research institute. That’s the highest in
three years and close to the 80 percent peak in October 2006.  ‘Slowdown Starting’  Estonian exports rose an annual 53 percent in the first
quarter, reaching a monthly record in March. Export growth has
mainly been powered by rising demand for wireless  network
equipment  and mobile phone handsets manufactured at the local
plants of  Sweden ’s Ericsson and Luxembourg-based Elcoteq.  “The biggest contribution to Estonian industry is from
electronics and optical equipment, which are directly tied to
Ericsson” said Annika Paabut, chief economist at  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  in
Tallinn. “The fast growth began last June-July so we should see
a slowdown starting in these months due to the base effect.”  Lithuania posted first-quarter growth of 6.9 percent.
Exports, which reached a record 5.4 billion litai ($2.29
billion) in December, will probably increase by at least 22
percent this year, the Finance Ministry said in March. The Orlen
Lietuva refinery, the nation’s biggest exporter, said at the
time that crude processing grew 27 percent in the first quarter.  ‘Number of Risks’  Latvia, whose economy contracted most during the crisis,
has been slower to recover. GDP expanded 3.4 percent in the
first quarter, lower than all eight estimates in a Bloomberg
survey. The Baltic nation took a 7.5 billion-euro ($10.7
billion) loan from a group led by the European Commission and
 International Monetary Fund  following a government bailout of
its second-biggest bank.  “There are a number of risks that may further impede the
recovery of domestic demand this year, in particular fiscal
consolidation and accelerating inflation”  Violeta Klyviene , an
economist at Danske Bank A/S in Vilnius, said in an e-mailed
note on May 10.  Latvia’s budget shortfall may narrow to 4 percent of GDP
this year and about 2 percent in 2012, Finance Minister Andris Vilks said last month. Lithuania’s deficit will shrink to 3.8
percent next year from an estimated 5.3 percent in 2011,  Fitch
Ratings  forecast this week.  Estonia, the only EU member to post a  budget surplus  last
year and the nation with the lowest public debt in the 27-member
bloc, is less dependent on export demand than its Baltic
neighbors, said Jekaterina Rojaka, a Vilnius-based chief
economist at DnB NORD Group.  ‘Still Struggling’  “Estonia, having no specific restraints over the public
sector, is likely to enjoy a broader recovery compared to the
other Baltic states, which are still struggling with further
fiscal consolidation,” Rojaka said.  The country’s economy may expand about 5 percent in 2011,
the  Finance Ministry  said yesterday. Lithuania’s Finance
Ministry raised its growth forecast to 5.8 percent on March 16
from a September estimate of 2.8 percent. The Latvian government
predicts 3.3 percent expansion.  Officials see the recovery as proof that austerity has
helped regain competitiveness lost during an economic boom that
began in 2004 and ended four years later when a real estate
bubble burst, credit markets froze and exports collapsed,
erasing more than a fifth of the region’s economic output.  “A bit of austerity and belt-tightening both in the public
and private sector have made the economy stronger and more
capable to evolve than it was before,” Estonian Finance Minister
Juergen Ligi told journalists yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  