-- 
Banks Should End One-Size-Fits-All Bonus Curbs, Basel Says

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-05-12T12:11:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/banks-should-end-one-size-fits-all-bonus-curbs-basel-group-says.html
Banks should vary their policies on
bonus awards depending on the level of risk-taking by different
employees, global regulators said.  Lenders often use a one-size-fits-all approach to deferring
bonus payouts and on when staff can cash in  stock options ,
meaning that remuneration isn’t aligned to the higher risks that
some employees may be taking, the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  said in a report published on its website today.  “Standardizing the features in ways that do not depend on
risk calls into question whether firms are really paying
attention to risk-incentive alignment,” the Basel committee
said.  Global regulators have sought to overhaul bonus policies in
the wake of the financial crisis to prevent executives and
traders from taking excessive risks in order to reap short-term
gains. The European Union approved laws to curb incentives for
excessive risk-taking last year. The rules allow bankers to
receive about 25 percent of their bonuses in immediate cash
payouts and require the rest to be deferred or held in shares
for a minimum of three years.  Banks should apply such rules on bonuses to all “material
risk-takers” in the company, the Basel committee said. “In the
majority of cases” rules that allow the performance-related
reductions in previous pay awards only currently apply to
“senior executives, not to employees more broadly,” it said.  ‘Unjustifiable Levels’  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services commissioner,
has said further action may be needed in the 27-nation region to
prevent bonus payouts at “unjustifiable levels.”  Attempts to impose stricter bonus rules may backfire unless
lenders get a chance to say how the changes would work in
practice, Syed Kamall, a lawmaker representing  London  in the
European Parliament, said in a phone interview today.  “If rules are imposed on banks without adequately
consulting them I worry that they would simply raise basic pay
and so we don’t have a link between performance and reward,” he
said.  Labor leaders and politicians have criticized the size of
some of this year’s bonus awards for bank executives.  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  announced in March that it was awarding its Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  a 6.5 million-pound ($10.6
million) bonus, pushing his total compensation to as much as
10.1 million pounds and making him the U.K.’s top-paid bank CEO.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , the U.K.’s biggest
government-controlled bank, gave CEO  Stephen Hester  and eight
top executives shares valued at about 28 million pounds.  The Basel committee brings together authorities from 27-
countries including the U.K., U.S. and  China , to set regulatory
standards for lenders. 