-- 
Bernanke Says Debit ‘Swipe’ Rules May Cause Bank Failures

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-05-12T22:46:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/bernanke-says-lawmakers-should-be-concerned-about-swipe-rules.html
Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said lawmakers should have “reason to be concerned”
that an exemption for smaller lenders from U.S. caps on debit-
card “swipe” fees won’t work and may cause banks to fail.  “I can’t say with certainty, but I think there is good
reason to be concerned about it,” Bernanke said in response to
a question at a Senate Banking Committee hearing today in
 Washington . If the exemption doesn’t work, “it’s going to
affect the revenues of the small issuers, and it could result in
some smaller banks being less profitable or even failing,” he
said.  The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Fed to cap debit-card swipe
fees charged to merchants, while exempting card issuers with
assets of less than $10 billion. The central bank has proposed
capping the fees at 12 cents a transaction, replacing a formula
that averages 1.14 percent of the purchase price.  Community banks and credit unions have said the exemption
won’t work and may make their cards less competitive, as they
will be more expensive for merchants to accept than cards issued
by larger banks. The exempt banks oppose the Fed’s plan along
with the biggest lenders, including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which could lose more than $12 billion in
annual revenue if the caps take effect.  Lawmakers in the House and Senate have introduced
legislation to delay the rule. Senator Jon Tester, a Montana
Democrat, has proposed postponing the rule for two years and
requiring a study.  ‘Misinformation Campaign’  Senator  Richard Durbin , the Illinois Democrat who pushed
for the caps to be included in Dodd-Frank, said Bernanke’s
statements help fuel a “misinformation campaign” by the banks
and payment networks led by  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , based
in Purchase,  New York .  “I find your statements troubling because I have seen no
factual evidence supporting the argument that the small issuer
exemption will not work effectively, only speculative statements
that have been largely promoted by the banking industry and
major card networks,” Durbin wrote in a letter today to
Bernanke.  MasterCard and San Francisco-based Visa, which set
interchange rates and pass the money to card-issuing banks,
plunged more than 10 percent on Dec. 16 after the Fed released
its proposal amid investor concern that the caps would damage
their business model. Both have rebounded since then, with
MasterCard gaining 26 percent and Visa climbing 19 percent.  ‘Extraordinary Volume’  The Fed missed an April 21 deadline to complete the fee
caps as it fielded an “extraordinary volume” of comment
letters on its initial proposal, Bernanke said in a March letter
to lawmakers. The Fed now has all of the information it needs,
Bernanke said. The caps are set to take effect July 21.  “We have plenty of information,” Bernanke said. “We’ve
received 11,000 comments and we’ve done an enormous amount of
surveying of the industry.”  Retailers, which are fighting efforts to postpone the rule,
said Bernanke’s comments proved that the delays are unnecessary.  “ Chairman Bernanke ’s comments confirm that Congress
shouldn’t insert politics or prejudge the thorough fact-based
process the Federal Reserve has conducted,” Doug Kantor, a
lawyer for the  Merchant Payments Coalition , said today in a
statement.  The Fed hasn’t announced when the final proposal will be
released.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  