-- 
Bernanke Says Using Debt Limit as ‘Bargaining Chip’ Could Threaten Economy

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-05-12T21:12:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/bernanke-cautions-against-using-debt-limit-as-bargaining-chip-.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  cautioned lawmakers against using the federal debt
limit as a “bargaining chip” during budget talks, saying such
moves could provoke market instability and harm the economy.  “I think using the debt limit as a bargaining chip is
quite risky,” the Fed chief said today in testimony to the
Senate Banking Committee in  Washington . Failure to raise the
debt limit would “at minimum” lead to “an increase in
 interest rates , which would actually worsen our deficit and
would hurt all borrowers in the economy.”  The comments echo warnings by Bernanke this year over the
potential costs if investor concern mounts that the U.S. will
fail to repay its debt. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
has said lawmakers must raise the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling
before Aug. 2 or risk a default. House Speaker  John Boehner , a
Republican from  Ohio , says any increase must come with
“significant spending cuts and reforms to reduce our debt.”  “It’s a risky approach” not to raise the debt limit “at
a reasonable time,” Bernanke said.  The Republican Study Committee, a group of self-described
fiscal conservatives, is circulating a letter asking Boehner to
back a plan that would cut the federal deficit in half in one
year in exchange for a vote to approve in increase in the
statutory debt limit. The measure would reduce spending by about
$380 billion in fiscal 2012.  Market Confidence  “Even if the debt is paid, there’s the issue of market
confidence and how the market would respond to the risk of
default or even the default of non-debt obligations,” he said.
“The worst outcome would be one in which the financial system
would again destabilize,” he said, adding that such an
occurrence “would have extremely dire consequences for the  U.S.
economy .”  Separately during the hearing, Bernanke, 57, said lawmakers
should have “reason to be concerned” that an exemption for
smaller lenders from U.S. caps on debit-card “swipe” fees
won’t work and may cause banks to fail.  “I can’t say with certainty, but I think there is good
reason to be concerned about it,” Bernanke said in response to
a question at the hearing. If the exemption doesn’t work, “it’s
going to affect the revenues of the small issuers, and it could
result in some smaller banks being less profitable or even
failing,” he said.  The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Fed to cap debit-card swipe
fees charged to merchants, while exempting card issuers with
assets of less than $10 billion. The central bank has proposed
capping the fees at 12 cents a transaction, replacing a formula
that averages 1.14 percent of the purchase price.  Won’t Work  Community banks and credit unions have said the exemption
won’t work and may make their cards less competitive. They
oppose the Fed’s plan along with the biggest lenders, including
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co., which could lose
more than $12 billion in annual revenue if the cap takes effect.  Lawmakers in the House and Senate have introduced
legislation to delay the rule. Senator Jon Tester, a Montana
Democrat, has proposed postponing the rule for two years and
requiring a study.  On another issue, Bernanke said finding a solution to
reduce U.S. home foreclosures has proven “very difficult” and
that government efforts have had “modest success.”  The Fed is trying to address the problem through monetary
policy aimed at lowering unemployment, Bernanke said during the
hearing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  