-- 
Bin Laden Raid Hinged on CIA-Pentagon Ties, Defense Department’s Lynn Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-05-12T21:26:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/bin-laden-raid-hinged-on-cia-pentagon-ties.html
Improved cooperation since 2001 among
U.S. special operating forces, intelligence and  law enforcement ,
more than any new piece of equipment, was the reason for the
successful commando raid that killed  Osama bin Laden , the
Defense Department’s No. 2 official said today.  “It was that partnership that lead to the success,”
Deputy Defense Secretary  William Lynn  said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York . “Teamwork was the
foundation upon which much of the success of the operation was
founded.”  Federal security agencies were “much more ‘siloed’ back
then,” he said, referring to the time of the Sept. 11 attacks.
Today, he said, “there is much more interaction, much more
teamwork, much more mutual support.”  The raid on bin Laden’s compound was under the overall
control of Leon Panetta, the director of the CIA. The tactical
commander was Vice Admiral  William McRaven  of the military’s
Joint Special Operations Command.  The interagency cooperation also includes task forces with
the  U.S. Treasury  that track terrorist finances and “fusion
cells” in Iraq and Afghanistan that quickly pass intelligence
to units for “time-sensitive” raids.  The bin Laden raid wasn’t an example of a raid quickly
launched because bin Laden’s location was pinpointed. Instead,
it was executed after painstaking analysis that stretched over
several years. When President  Barack Obama  gave the order, there
was not 100 percent certainty that bin Laden was among the
people in the house in Abbottabad,  Pakistan .  Training, Expertise  The cross-government cooperation made the most of other
improvements including equipment and training, Lynn said.  “We’ve been getting better and better equipment,
particularly surveillance, and monitoring and reconnaissance
played an important role,” he said.  “But almost surely more important than the equipment”
were the training and the expertise of the operators, including
Army pilots, who adjusted “when things don’t go right with the
helicopter,” Lynn said. He was referring to a  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX)  Black Hawk helicopter carrying Navy SEALs
that was forced down by an air vortex.  ‘They had to change the plan and do to it in a seamless
fashion,’’ Lynn said.  Twenty-five SEALs were flown to the bin Laden compound by
two Black Hawks, Panetta told “PBS NewsHour” on May 3.  Plans Changed  The helicopter that crash-landed was supposed to hover over
the compound’s courtyard so the SEALS could rappel, or “fast-
rope,” to the ground, Panetta said.  According to two U.S. officials, the aircraft lost the lift
needed to hover because it entered a “vortex” condition. At
least two factors were at play, they said -- an air temperature
that was hotter than expected and the compound’s 18-foot-high
walls.  The wall blocked rotor blade downwash from moving away as
it normally would. This caused disturbed airflow to move in a
circular path -- upward and then downward -- back through the
top of the rotor.  The pilot, realizing he had lost lift, landed quickly in a
practiced maneuver known as “settling with power,” one
official said.  As a result, the pilot executed a “hard landing,” U.S.
Representative Adam Smith of  Washington  state, the top Democrat
on the House Armed Services Committee, told reporters last week.  Adapting ‘Instantaneously’  The second Black Hawk, originally assigned to hover above
the building thought to harbor bin Laden as the SEALs rappelled,
instead landed next to the damaged helicopter.  “They did it instantaneously,” Lynn said of the changed
mission. “It was extraordinarily impressive.”  “It seems that everyone’s core capabilities carried the
day,” Michele Malvesti and Frances Fragos Townsend, two former
Bush administration counterterrorism officials, said in a new
article published by the  Combating Terrorism Center  at the U.S.
Military Academy in  West Point , New York.  U.S. special operating forces since the Sept. 11 attacks
“have invested heavily in strategic and operational
partnerships across departments and agencies in Washington,”
they wrote in the May issue of the CTC Sentinel.  “These relationships, which helped establish trust and
confidence among the interagency players, paid huge dividends,”
they wrote.  Iraq  Example  At a special operations conference in February 2009, the
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Michael Mullen,
cited the integration of commando and conventional forces and
use of intelligence in the manhunt and eventual June 2006 air
strike that killed Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the leader of al-Qaeda
in Iraq.  “It was the merger of intelligence and operations as we
have never seen it done before,” Mullen said. “We should
capture” those lessons “in every possible way and the
devastation that it caused for the enemy. We need to keep that,
we need to hang on to that and apply that to Afghanistan.”  The bin Laden operation “was built on something that came
before it,” Representative Mike Rogers, the Michigan Republican
who is chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence, told the  Council on Foreign Relations  yesterday.  “Those elite Special Forces teams do two and three raids a
night when they’re working in Iraq and  Afghanistan ,” he said.
“The operation was very similar to many other operations, which
gave them a high degree of confidence and operational experience
to pull off something that was just a little bit trickier,” he
said.  Similarly, the CIA’s ability “to keep getting closer and
closer with sources of information or people who would either
wittingly or unwittingly provide information about patterns of
life, our ability electronically to pick up just the smallest
thing that might benefit that whole operation -- it all happened
because we learned from the one that happened before,” Rogers
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in New York at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  