-- 
Bin Laden’s Death Won’t End His Toll on American Taxpayers, Poll Shows

-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 
2011-05-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/bin-laden-s-death-won-t-end-toll-on-taxpayers.html
Even in death, Osama  bin Laden  will
be taking revenge on American taxpayers for years to come.  The U.S. government spent $2 trillion combating bin Laden
over the past decade, more than 20 percent of the nation’s $9.68
trillion public debt. That money paid for wars in Afghanistan
and  Iraq , as well as additional military, intelligence and
homeland security spending above pre-Sept. 11 trends, according
to a Bloomberg analysis.  This year alone, taxpayers are spending more than $45
billion in interest on the money borrowed to battle al-Qaeda,
the analysis shows.  The financial bleeding won’t stop with bin Laden’s demise.
One of every four dollars in red ink the U.S. expects to incur
in the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1 will result from $285
billion in annual spending triggered by the terrorist scion of a
wealthy Saudi family.  Without bin Laden, “we would have accumulated less debt,
be spending less on interest and we would be on a lower spending
path going forward,” said  Dean Baker , co-director of the Center
for Economic and Policy Research, a research organization in
Washington.  Along with the dollars-and-cents toll, bin Laden has left
behind a less quantifiable imprint on American life. Thousands
of families have suffered grievous loss from the Sept. 11
attacks and the two wars. U.S. government buildings in
Washington and around the world have grown to resemble fortified
bunkers. And the line between government power and individual
liberty was redrawn as agencies gained new powers to combat a
novel threat.  Costs ‘Ad Infinitum’  The complete figure may be higher than the Bloomberg
analysis.  Mark Zandi , chief economist of Moody’s Analytics Inc.,
said bin Laden cost the U.S. government and businesses $2.5
trillion, or $250 billion each year. “I think a prudent planner
would anticipate these costs continuing ad infinitum into the
future,” he said in an e-mail.  Indeed, the meter didn’t stop running May 2 when bin
Laden’s corpse slipped into the Arabian Sea. Next year alone,
the U.S. plans to spend an additional $118 billion on military
operations in  Afghanistan  and Iraq. Additional fiscal 2012
spending that can be attributed to bin Laden includes an extra
$14 billion for homeland security, about $125 billion for the
Pentagon excluding the two wars, expanded intelligence spending
and increased aid to  Pakistan , according to the Bloomberg
analysis.  “There are a lot of legacy costs,” said Jon Meacham,
editor of “Beyond Bin Laden,” an instant book from  Random
House .  Pentagon Budget  As the U.S. celebrates the demise of the number-one figure
on the FBI’s  “Most Wanted Terrorists”  list, the future
spending that can be attributed to bin Laden far exceeds direct
war costs. Gordon Adams, who oversaw national security budgeting
at the Office of Management and Budget during the Clinton
administration, said roughly $125 billion of the Pentagon’s $553
billion fiscal 2012 budget request represents unnecessary
spending justified by claims of war-time need.  “That’s a tax which would not have happened without  Osama
bin Laden ,” Adams, a professor at American University’s School
of International Service, said in a telephone interview.  The bin Laden tax has been levied every year for the past
decade. Pentagon spending -- excluding the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan -- between fiscal 2002 and today was $742 billion
higher than the  Congressional Budget Office ’s January 2001
baseline forecast.  Amid a wartime atmosphere, military spending requests faced
less scrutiny both within the Pentagon and in Congress, Adams
said. Programs launched with modest initial funding often live
on, their costs ballooning with the years.  Nigeria Surveillance  A Pentagon counterterrorism training and equipment
initiative known as the Section 1206 program, which has funneled
aid to 53 countries, swelled from $100 million in fiscal 2006 to
$500 million in the Obama administration’s request for fiscal
year 2012, which starts Oct. 1.  Under the program, Nigeria got maritime surveillance gear
to monitor traffic in the Gulf of Guinea and Lebanon obtained
parts for UH-1H helicopters, which it used to quash an uprising
in the Nahr al-Barid refugee camp. “It’s used for every purpose
you can imagine,” Adams said.  The U.S. added 92,000 soldiers to its ground forces in the
decade following the Sept. 11 attacks. Each 10,000 people added
to the military’s ranks means an extra $1 billion in annual
spending, according to Adams. So the ground force expansion
inspired by bin Laden will impose an additional $9 billion
annually, he said.  Intelligence Tripled  The military wasn’t alone in securing expanded financial
resources because of bin Laden. The budget for U.S. intelligence
agencies tripled over the past 12 years, representing an average
annual increase of 9.6 percent.  While it is difficult to determine how much of the
incremental increase in can be directly linked to bin Laden, the
amount is undoubtedly sizable. In October 2010, the director of
national intelligence,  James Clapper , said the intelligence
budget for fiscal 2009 was $80.1 billion, including $27 billion
for military intelligence. Michael O’Hanlon, a Brookings
Institution defense expert, estimated that $25 billion to $30
billion of annual intelligence spending can be laid at bin
Laden’s feet.  “A large portion of that cost growth is from 9/11,” said
O’Hanlon, a former national security analyst with the
Congressional Budget Office.  Homeland Security   The government’s finances also will groan beneath the
weight of the Department of Homeland Security, the 216,000-
employee bureaucracy created to protect Americans from
additional terrorist attacks. Over the past nine years, the
department spent about $123 billion more than if the 22
component agencies’ pre-Sept. 11 spending trends had continued,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That is an extra $14 billion annually U.S. taxpayers can
attribute to bin Laden -- or 24 percent of the $57 billion the
department is seeking for the 2012 fiscal year.  Some enduring costs will amount to no more than
inconvenience. Less than six months before the Sept. 11 attacks,
a House committee held a hearing to consider reopening
Pennsylvania Avenue in front of the White House. The street
closure, instituted as a temporary measure after the 1995
Oklahoma City bombing, was made permanent after al-Qaeda’s
attacks, and  Washington  drivers have adjusted.  Airport Lines  Likewise, though travelers fume in airport security lines
while stripping off shoes and belts and fumbling with three-
ounce cosmetics containers, the economic consequences are
negligible, according to  Nariman Behravesh , chief economist of
IHS Insight, an economic and financial analysis and forecasting
company. “This is a huge, diversified economy which can absorb
this stuff without too much pain,” he said.  Bin Laden’s imprint on American society, however, extends
beyond finances. Through May 2, 11,191 members of the U.S.
military have been wounded in the war in Afghanistan, including
35 percent so severely as to preclude their return to combat.  In coming years, those who saw loved ones injured or killed
in the Sept. 11 attacks, or in the wars that followed, will
still bear daily pain.  Public buildings, which before the rise of al-Qaeda were
designed as artistic statements, will continue to resemble
bunkers. And small erosions of personal liberty, conceded in the
interests of security, may yet deepen.  Duct Tape  Not since the early days of the  Cold War , when the  Soviet
Union  threatened, has an enemy so bedeviled Americans and their
leaders. Where once children prepared for nuclear war with
“duck and cover” drills, Americans after Sept. 11 stockpiled
duct tape and canned food.  The post-Sept. 11 drive for security changed the look of
the U.S. capital, transforming it into a garrison city bristling
with metal barriers, stone bollards and closed-circuit cameras.
To enter even the most unimportant office building, people grew
accustomed to handing over photo identification and signing
their names.  If these requirements seemed longer on ritual than reward,
they nonetheless spread. Likewise, the government expanded its
powers in response to the threat conjured by bin Laden.  In 2010, federal officials filed 1,579 requests with the
 Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court  -- or six requests each
working day and 50 percent more than in 2001 -- for electronic
surveillance or physical searches. The 11-judge federal court,
established to adjudicate surveillance requests regarding
suspected foreign agents, approved every one of the government’s
requests, according to an April 29 Justice Department report to
Congress.  ‘Pre-Emptive’ Surveillance  Julian Sanchez , a research analyst at the  Cato Institute , a
libertarian-oriented policy center in Washington, said the
proliferation of wiretap requests represented a break with
practices in place before the Sept. 11 attacks. “We’ve seen a
shift from the traditional American model of surveillance of
particular individuals on the basis of individualized suspicion
to a broader pre-emptive model,” he said.  Separately, the FBI issued so-called national security
letters, which require businesses to provide federal
investigators with an individual’s records, including
telecommunications and financial data.  Investigators last year sought the records of 14,212
Americans, more than in the previous two years combined. Civil
liberties advocates see the national security letters, which
don’t require a judge’s approval, as a dangerously broad power.
“We would be in pretty serious trouble if there were 14,000
terrorists in the  United States ,” said Sanchez.  For all bin Laden’s financial and human impact, however,
the al-Qaeda leader failed in his ultimate goal of humbling the
world’s lone superpower. Today’s $15 trillion  U.S. economy , for
example, is 18 percent larger than in 2001, after adjusting for
inflation.  Economy Survives  Indeed, said Meacham, the genius of the American experiment
lies in the country’s ability to withstand sharp blows without
fracturing. He noted that President  Barack Obama , who as a
candidate criticized the national security policies of his
predecessor,  George W. Bush , largely embraced them once he took
office.  That development, akin to President Dwight D. Eisenhower’s
acceptance of the New Deal in the 1950s, has helped steady the
country amid turbulent times.  “We’re on this new road that’s been created. We’ll veer a
little left. We’ll veer a little right,” Meacham said. “But
the road has been laid out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  