-- 
Blackstone, BC Said to Weigh Bids in $2.8 Billion Com Hem Sale

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-05-12T14:27:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/blackstone-bc-are-said-to-consider-bids-for-swedish-cable-company-com-hem.html
Blackstone Group is among private-
equity firms considering bids for Com Hem AB that may value the
Swedish cable company at more than 2 billion euros ($2.8
billion), people with knowledge of the matter said.  Blackstone, based in  New York , may compete with rivals
including Stockholm-based Nordic Capital, San Francisco-based
fund manager Hellman & Friedman LLC and London-based CVC Capital
Partners and BC Partners Ltd., said five people, who declined to
be identified because the plans are private.  Carlyle Group  and  Providence Equity Partners  are selling
Com Hem after acquiring the company in 2006 for about 1 billion
euros, the people said.  Private-equity firms are seeking to buy cable operators as
the shift to digital television and expansion of high-definition
video content increases demand for so-called triple-play
offerings that combine television, Internet and phone services.
Com Hem, based in Stockholm, competes with  Telenor ASA (TEL)  and
 TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) , the Nordic region’s two largest phone companies.  Spokesmen for Blackstone, Nordic Capital, Carlyle and
Providence declined to comment. Com Hem spokeswoman Jessica
Sjoeberg declined to comment, saying that “we are in a
situation where we are preparing different scenarios.”
Spokespeople for Hellman & Friedman, CVC Capital and BC Partners
couldn’t immediately be reached to comment.  Com Hem  reported  first-quarter earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of 503 million kronor ($79
million) on sales of 1.1 billion kronor. The company has about
1.8 million subscribers and 700 employees. Com Hem was
previously the cable-television subsidiary of TeliaSonera, which
sold the asset to EQT, the buyout arm of Investor AB, in 2003.  Liberty Global, controlled by U.S. billionaire  John Malone ,
agreed in March to acquire Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH,
Germany’s third-biggest cable operator, for 3.16 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net 
Simon Thiel at o  sthiel1@bloomberg.net  