-- 
BMW Targets Brazil, Russia, Turkey, S. Korea for Two Factories

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-05-12T09:19:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/bmw-considers-building-two-new-factories-in-emerging-markets.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles , is considering adding
two auto factories in emerging markets as it seeks to extend its
lead over  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi.  BMW is evaluating sites for a plant in  Brazil  as well as
another factory in  Russia , India,  South Korea  or  Turkey , Chief
Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said today at the company’s
annual shareholders’ meeting in Munich.  “The people in these countries want more individual
mobility,” Reithofer said in a speech. “We want to further our
lead in the premium sector.”  The maker of BMW, Mini and Rolls-Royce cars is expanding in
emerging markets as it looks to guard its independence and fend
off Audi, which aims to overtake BMW as the luxury-car leader by
2015. BMW’s joint venture plant in Shenyang,  China , is boosting
investment to 1 billion euros ($1.42 billion) from 560 million
euros.  The automaker, which is also planning to invest 2 billion
euros in German plants, is adding assembly of the X3 sport-
utility vehicle to a factory in  Chennai ,  India , as part of an
expansion.  BMW will pay a record profit-sharing bonus to its employees
this year based on 2010 results. Employees paid under
collective-bargaining agreements will receive an average of
5,840 euros, the equivalent of 1.6 times monthly wages. The
company confirmed its goal of increasing profit this year and
selling more than 1.5 million vehicles. BMW aims to hire 2,000
people this year to support its expansion, Reithofer said today.  Record Dividend  BMW is proposing a dividend of 1.30 euros per share after
2010 net income surged to 3.23 billion euros from 210 million
euros a year earlier. The investor payout is a record for the
company, Reithofer said today.  The German carmaker earned more money per car than ever in
its 95-year history in the first quarter, because of surging
deliveries of the revamped 5-Series sedan and lower spending on
supplies. BMW made a profit of 4,462 euros per car on average,
compared with 4,145 euros at  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz and
2,981 euros at Volkswagen’s Audi.  Sales of BMW’s 5-Series more than doubled to 85,400
vehicles in the first quarter, fuelling a 21 percent advance in
total sales to 382,800 autos. BMW said May 4 it expects to sell
a “well over” 1.5 million vehicles this year, a record,
surpassing the 2010 level of 1.46 million.  China, U.S.  China’s growing economy and a rebound in spending in the
U.S. are driving record demand for vehicles from the three
German luxury-car makers. VW reported first-quarter earnings
before interest and taxes more than tripled because of demand
for Audi in China. Daimler’s operating profit rose 71 percent,
led by sales of the Mercedes S-Class.  Audi’s operating profit was 10.6 percent of sales in the
first quarter, compared with 9.3 percent for Daimler AG’s
Mercedes and 11.9 percent for BMW’s automotive division.  BMW is expanding its lineup to reach a goal of selling more
than 2 million cars and SUVs annually by 2020. It has created
the “i” electric-car sub-brand, which will start in 2013 with
the i3, a battery-powered city car. BMW is also planning the i8,
a hybrid supercar based on the Vision Efficient Dynamics
prototype. The sub-brand’s models will have frames built largely
of carbon fiber and display a blue ring around the BMW logo.  The company is developing front-wheel drive models for the
BMW brand and plans to expand the Mini line with a coupe and
roadster. The manufacturer is also pushing into transport-
related services and experimenting with short-term rentals as it
seeks to appeal to consumers more interested in gadgets such as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone. The company started a $100 million venture-
capital unit and invested in the MyCityWay guide service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Munich at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  