-- 
Bosnian Crisis May Lead to Rising Ethnic Tensions, Inzko Says

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-05-12T06:39:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/bosnian-crisis-may-lead-to-rising-ethnic-tensions-inzko-says.html
Bosnia and Herzegovina  faces its
worst crisis since ethnic wars in the 1990’s as the country’s
Serb region pushes for a referendum that may increase tensions,
a European Union official said.  The former Yugoslav republic is made up of the
predominantly Serbian entity called  Republika Srpska  and a
Muslim-Croat  Federation . Bosnian Serb lawmakers approved on
April 13 a referendum that would challenge the authority of
the federal judiciary, a move which may increase hostility
between the two sides, Inzko, said in a phone interview.  “The U.S. and the EU are saying that Republika Srpska has
gone a step too far,” Inzko said on May 10 from Washington D.C.
“If they don’t withdraw the decision on the referendum, the
international community will have to act. I will have to act.”  Bosnia, a nation of 3.8 million residents wedged between
 Croatia ,  Serbia , Montenegro and the  Adriatic Sea , was the scene
of the worst fighting during the disintegration of  Yugoslavia  in
the 1990s. It has had no federal administration since October
elections because Serbs, Croats and Muslims have failed to agree
as each nation seeks a dominant position in the Balkan country.  The lack of a government is hampering the  economic recovery 
in a country that aims to join the European Union and is
impeding the flow of funds from international-aid donors which
are essential to the everyday operation of the state.  Inzko, who represents the U.S., EU and  Russia  in Bosnia,
has the power to annul decisions and even remove officials if he
deems they are undermining the U.S.-brokered Dayton peace
agreement that in 1995 ended the bloodiest conflict in  Europe 
since World War II.  Ripple Effect  Tensions resulting from the referendum could ripple across
the region and impact the economies of countries such as
Croatia, Montenegro or Serbia, said the Austrian-born diplomat,
who has given Republika Srpska until May 13 to withdraw the
decision to hold the vote.  “If somebody started thinking that Bosnia may fall apart
and if some concrete steps are taken, then we could see the
conflict flare up again,” Inzko said. “These countries are
tied together and what happens in the neighborhood impacts
Bosnia and the other way round. The whole region could become
problematic.”  The Balkans are struggling to kick start their economies
after the worst recession since the fall of communism saw a stop
in capital inflows and investments. Bosnia’s economy advanced
0.9 percent last year and is forecast to expand 3 percent this
year, according to the  central bank  in the capitalSarajevo.  Bosnia is “falling behind” other countries in its efforts
to gain EU membership, according to Inzko, and officials
should focus on boosting the economy.  “In the last 15 years, Bosnia has lost hundreds of
millions of euros as the three nations can’t agree on many
things,” Inzko said.  The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has
offered Bosnia 300 million euros ($431 million) to build
highways, while the  World Bank  offered funding to build hydro-
power plants, Inzko said. The money hasn’t been used, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  