-- 
Boston Scientific, Lime Wire, Google: Intellectual Property

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-05-12T11:39:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/boston-scientific-lime-wire-google-intellectual-property.html
Boston Scientific Corp., which makes
coronary stents to repair clogged arteries, yesterday won more
than $19 million in patent-infringement damages from  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ’s Cordis Corp. after a jury trial.  The jury of four men and four women deliberated about two
hours after a four-day trial in federal court in Wilmington,
 Delaware , before reaching a verdict on lost profits and
royalties for Cordis’s sale of the small-vessel Cypher stent.  Boston Scientific, based in Natick,  Massachusetts , sued
Cordis in 2009 in Minnesota and the case was transferred to
Delaware the following year. U.S. District Judge Sue Robinson
said that another jury in 2005 ruled Cordis infringed the
patent.  “We are pleased to see the jury recognized the value of
our  intellectual property ,” Hank Kucheman, cardiology group
president for Boston Scientific, said in an e-mailed statement.
“This is an important outcome in protecting our market
position.”  “Cordis is considering what, if any, next steps it may
take in the legal process,” Sandy Pound, a Cordis spokeswoman,
said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  v. Cordis Corp.,
10CV315, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To see the patent, click: 5,922,021.  Patents  BOX Options Exchange Files Patent Infringement Suit on Auctions  BOX Options Exchange, an equity derivatives market, said in
a lawsuit that three competitors infringed its new patent
related to electronic auctions, according to a  notice  from the
Boston-based company.  BOX filed the complaint after getting the patent yesterday
for a mechanism that allows investors using exchanges to get
better prices than those publicly available, the company said.
The lawsuit against the Chicago Board Options Exchange,
International Securities Exchange and Nasdaq OMX PHLX, was filed
yesterday in federal court in Massachusetts.  The lawsuit comes as competition in the options industry
continues to increase. The largest individual exchange by volume
last month was CBOE, followed by Nasdaq OMX PHLX and the ISE,
according to  data compiled  by Chicago-based OCC. Nine exchanges
vie with each other for volume and market share and a tenth
platform plans to begin trading next year.  “BOX is committed to price improvement and is willing to
engage in discussions in order to ensure that price improvement
is available to all segments of the marketplace,” Anthony McCormick, chief executive officer of BOX, said in the notice.  Gail Osten, a spokeswoman for CBOE, ISE’s Molly McGregor
and Nasdaq OMX’s Frank De Maria declined to comment.  BOX said in a statement yesterday that its so-called price
improvement period auction has saved investors $335 million
since it began in 2004. A similar feature on ISE is called a
price improvement mechanism, CBOE’s is called an automated
improvement mechanism, and PHLX’s is a price improvement
secondary auction process.  The case is Boston Options Exchange Group LLC v
International Securities Exchange LLC, 11cv10824, U.S. District
Court for the District of Massachusetts (Boston).  For more, click here.  Analog Devices Wins Patent Ruling Against Dover’s Knowles  Analog Devices Inc. (ADI) , the maker of chips used in cars and
consumer electronics, won its U.S. International Trade
Commission case against  Dover Corp. (DOV) ’s Knowles Electronics over
microphones in digital devices.  The commission yesterday said Knowles and Mouser
Electronics Inc. violated a patent owned by Analog Devices and
said the products that infringe the patent should be barred from
the U.S. It upheld a judge’s findings from December.  Each company has accused the other of infringing patents
related to microphones that are made on silicon chips, which
render them smaller than traditional microphones and provide
higher-quality recording. Knowles lost its case after the
commission found no violation by Norwood, Massachusetts-based
Analog Devices.  The exclusion order must be reviewed by President Barack Obama and the U.S. Trade Representative to see if there is any
conflict with public policy. The underlying patent case can be
appealed by Downers Grove, Illinois-based Dover to a court that
specializes in U.S. patent law.  The ADI case is in the Matter of MEMS Devices, 337-700 and
the Knowles case is in the Matter of Silicon Microphone
Packages, 337-695, both U.S. International Trade Commission
( Washington ).  Patent Office Stymied in Revamp of ‘Beyond Horrific’ Technology  John Owens  was confronted on his first day as chief
information officer at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office by
technology in “a state beyond horrific.”  Put in charge in 2008 of a computer network supporting more
than 9,000 employees and processing at least 200,000  patent
applications  a year, the former technical director for AOL Inc.
found technicians who hadn’t had training in a decade; computer
servers exposed to severe heat; a reliance on inputting data
manually; and insufficient backup of the agency’s database.  “This organization was doing everything it could to keep
the ship alive, and that was it,” Owens said in an interview.
“We got so far behind that the only way to move forward is with
a major overhaul.”  A $2.25 billion effort to rebuild the information
technology systems is now being derailed after Congress last
month put limits on the Alexandria, Virginia-based agency’s
budget. As a result, director David Kappos, 50, ordered cutbacks
in plans to speed applications being reviewed by the office’s
6,800 patent examiners and to revamp the billing system.  “The nation’s No. 1 technology agency is shockingly out of
date in its technology,” said Paul Michel, the retired chief
judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
Washington, which handles patent cases. “New companies, new
technologies, new jobs are being held hostage at the patent
office because of funding problems.”  The patent office had anticipated spending $606.1 million
by now toward $2.25 billion of major information technology
projects. It’s about $120 million short of that goal, according
to the government’s  federal contracting website . The agency may
fall further behind without greater budget increases, Kappos
said.  On one of the five projects that make up the total
initiative -- to automate steps in the review of applications
for inventions such as jet-engine technology, medicines and
iPads -- the agency has spent $4.1 million of $34.8 million
scheduled. A second project to update the trademark process has
used $805,000, compared with an $8.3 million target.  Kappos said the agency had opted to develop its projects
using the “agile” system, which approaches the overhaul in
incremental steps. This will let the patent office continue with
some changes during the budget crunch and ramp up quickly once
new funding is approved, Kappos said.  “We’re just going through what’s left of our money and
we’re trying to pick which projects we keep going on, which we
slow down on, which we keep funding and which we have to stop,”
Kappos said. “There will be important projects we have to
stop.”  For more, click here.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Bronfman Tells Jury  Lime Wire  ‘Devastating’ to Warner Music  Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG)  Chief Executive Officer Edgar Bronfman told a federal jury weighing damages caused by Lime
Wire LLC’s copyright infringement that the effect on Warner’s
business was “devastating.”  Bronfman, 54, testified that the drop in revenue caused by
free peer-to-peer music sharing services such as Lime Wire
forced Warner to fire employees and release fewer recordings. He
said he had hoped the services would shut down voluntarily after
the  Supreme Court  ruled in 2005 that Grokster, another music-
sharing program, could be held liable for infringement  “When Lime Wire kept operating it frustrated me greatly,”
Bronfman told jurors yesterday in a Manhattan courtroom. “It
was devastating, frankly.”  Music labels owned by Warner Music,  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Vivendi SA (VIV) 
and Citigroup’s EMI Group Ltd., are seeking hundreds of millions
of dollars from Lime Wire and its founder,  Mark Gorton , after
U.S. District Judge  Kimba Wood  ruled last May that Lime Wire
induced the infringement of copyrights on thousands of songs.
The court ordered New York-based Lime Wire to shut its music
service last year.  Glenn Pomerantz, a lawyer representing 13 labels, told a
jury of eight women and one man in his opening statement on May
3 that the harm caused by Lime Wire was “truly staggering.”
Gorton used other people’s property to make money for himself,
he said, claiming the record industry’s revenue fell 52 percent
from 2000, the year Lime Wire was founded, to 2010.  Gorton’s lawyers are trying to convince the jury that other
factors were responsible for the decline in industry revenue
besides peer-to-peer, or P2P, file-sharing.  “The record companies know and have known that their
problems started well before Lime Wire,” Joseph Baio, a lawyer
representing Lime Wire and Gorton, said in his opening statement
to the jury.  Baio cited the record companies’ own past comments about
counterfeit and copied CDs, the economic recession, bankruptcies
of music wholesalers and retailers, the maturation of the CD
market, competition from other forms of entertainment such as
video games, and the industry’s own inability to exploit the new
technologies.  The record labels  will try to get statutory damages under
federal copyright law for 9,561 recordings released since 1972,
according to court papers. Maximum statutory damages of $150,000
for each recording would result in a $1.4 billion award. Other
damages on pre-1972 recordings will also be sought, the
companies said in court filings.  Baio said Gorton made only about $6 million from the songs
the record companies have listed as infringed. Lime Wire, which
provided free software for file sharing, made money by selling a
faster, premium version of the program.  The companies have also accused Gorton of making a
fraudulent transfer of assets into family limited partnerships
to shield the funds from liability. Pomerantz told the jurors
Gorton transferred the money three days after the Supreme
Court’s Grokster ruling.  The case is Arista Records LLC v. Lime Wire LLC, 06-05936,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Google Sued by French Publishers for $14 Million Over Books  Google Inc. (GOOG)  was sued for 9.8 million euros ($14 million) by
three French publishers who said the search-engine company
scanned books without permission.  Editions Albin Michel SA, Editions Gallimard SA and
Flammarion claimed Google has scanned 9,797 copyright-protected
works for its digital library. The publishers are seeking
compensation of 10,000 euros per book, Google said yesterday.  “We have been working with French publishers for some time
to find ways to increase audiences and revenue opportunities for
publishers, authors and booksellers,” Google said in an e-
mailed statement. Google, based in Mountain View, California,
said it believes the Google Books project complies with French
law and international copyright rules.  Google reached an agreement six months ago with  Lagardere
SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Livre publishing to allow the scanning of out-of-
print French books. A Paris court said in December 2009 that
Google’s book project had violated French copyrights and ordered
the company to stop scanning works without permission. The
company has appealed.  Calls to the publishers for comment on the suit weren’t
immediately returned.  Trade publication  Livres Hebdo   reported  the claim earlier
yesterday on its website.  Separately, Google said May 10 that it set aside $500
million related to the possible resolution of a U.S. Justice
Department investigation of its advertising business, resulting
in a lower first-quarter profit.  “Although we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this
matter, we believe it will not have a material adverse effect on
our business, consolidated financial position, results of
operations or cash flows,” Google said in a regulatory filing.  Software Piracy Losses Jump to $59 Billion in 2010, Report Says  The value of pirated software worldwide rose 14 percent to
$58.8 billion last year, almost double the total in 2003, amid
rising theft of programs in emerging markets, according to a
trade group that tracks piracy.  Countries with emerging economies, including  China , Russia,
 India  and Brazil, now account for more than half of the money
lost to piracy, according to the  Business Software Alliance , a
Washington group that is releasing its annual piracy report
today. The U.S. topped all other countries with $9.52 billion
lost to piracy, with China second at $7.78 billion.  Still, only 20 percent of software in the U.S. is stolen,
tying for the lowest rate with Japan and Luxembourg. In China,
almost four out of five programs in use are pirated, and 65
percent of software in Russia is stolen. Piracy represents a
problem for companies such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the biggest
software maker, because personal-computer sales growth is
fastest in countries that have high rates of software theft.  The percentage of software in China that is pirated dropped
to 78 percent last year from 79 percent in 2009, according to
the report. In 2003 it was 92 percent, though the overall value
of stolen software has increased as the Chinese software market
expands, the report said.  Stolen software in Russia amounted to $2.84 billion, while
India accounted for $2.74 billion of the total. Though it has a
lower percentage of piracy, the U.S. still racks up the largest
losses in dollars because it is the biggest software market,
Holleyman said.  Georgia leads the list of countries with the highest
percentage of pirated software, with 93 percent, following by
Zimbabwe at 91 percent. Yemen, Bangladesh and Moldova came in at
90 percent.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Iconic New York Deli Sues to Avert a Culinary Coronary  The owners of New York’s famous 2nd Avenue Deli are asking
a federal court judge to confirm that they have the right to use
the names “Instant Heart Attack Sandwich” and “Triple Bypass
Sandwich.”  In a declaratory judgment action filed May 10, the owners
sued the Heart Attack Grill LLC, a Scottsdale, Arizona-based
restaurant that has trademarked several names using the word
bypass, including the “triple bypass burger.”  In the action, the 2nd Avenue Deli owners contend that no
likelihood of confusion exists. The Heart Attack Grill’s Triple
Bypass Burger is a cheeseburger, forbidden in the Kosher New
York restaurant, where mixing of meat and dairy products is
prohibited.  Robert Kain, the Fort Lauderdale, Florida, lawyer who
represents the Heart Attack Grill, said in a telephone interview
yesterday that he “sent a cease and desist letter in March and
we had a short discussion with their attorneys.” The lawsuit
was a “surprise to us,” he said, adding that “we believe our
rights are superior.” His client has negotiated with several
other restaurants nationwide in recent years.  William Chuang, the Manhattan lawyer representing the 2nd
Avenue Deli, said that while the two parties had spoken, no
agreement was reached. Once the restaurant learned -- on Heart
Attack’s Facebook page, he said -- that it was planning on
opening in New York, the owners of the deli decided to file
suit.  Chuang added that he hoped the parties could reach a
settlement.  The case is Lebewohl v. Heart Attack Grill LLC, 11 Civ
3153, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more trademark news, click here.  Privacy  Google Will Pull Plug on Swiss Street View If Court Appeal Fails  Google Inc., the world’s biggest Internet search engine,
threatened to withdraw its Street View service from Switzerland
if its appeal against a court ruling saying it breached privacy
requirements fails.  Switzerland’s Federal Administrative Court decided on April
4 that Mountain View, California-based Google’s Internet map
service, which offers ground-level photography, must blur
people’s faces and vehicle registrations more effectively before
posting images online.  “The court ordered a series of wide-reaching alterations
to Street View in Switzerland,” Google said in an e-mailed
 statement  yesterday. “If these changes are implemented, Google
will be forced to discontinue the service” in the country.  The  Street View  function is still available to Swiss users,
though Google agreed in 2010 not to upload any new photos until
the dispute over privacy is resolved.  Fifty-three percent of Swiss residents have logged on to
Street View, while more than 1,000 Swiss companies use the
technology on their websites, Google said.  “We’ve already taken measures to protect the identities of
individuals and vehicles,” Patrick Warnking, Google Switzerland
country manager, said in the statement. “We really hope these
will be valued in the appeal process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 