-- 
Pound Weakens, Gilts Surge as U.K. Industrial Production Misses Estimates

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-05-12T15:45:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/british-pound-weakens-against-euro-before-march-industrial-production-data.html
The pound fell against the dollar and
gilts rallied after a report showed manufacturing rose less than
estimated, giving the  Bank of England  leeway to hold its main
interest rate at a record low for longer to spur growth.  Sterling also declined versus the euro, retreating from a
seven-week high. Manufacturing output rose 0.2 percent in March
from the month before, the  Office for National Statistics  said
today, below the 0.3 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey. Industrial production gained 0.3 percent from February,
below the 0.8 percent forecast in a separate survey.  “What’s holding the pound back is that it’s clear the Bank
of England is going to struggle to hike aggressively in the near
term,” said  Steven Barrow , head of Group of 10 currency
research at Standard Bank Plc in  London . “Rates aren’t going to
go up until at least November, and that’s going to limit the
ability of sterling to appreciate.”  The pound fell 0.2 percent to $1.6305 as of 4:36 p.m. in
London, a third day of losses. Britain’s currency traded 0.7
percent weaker at 87.39 pence per euro, after earlier reaching
86.73 pence, its strongest level against the shared currency
since March 24. Sterling depreciated 0.6 percent to 131.66 yen.  The yield on the 10-year gilt fell six basis points to 3.38
percent. The two-year yield was five basis points lower at 1.02
percent.  The Bank of England left its main interest rate at a
record-low 0.5 percent on May 5, three days after Governor
 Mervyn King  said he favors keeping borrowing costs on hold, even
as inflation accelerates at twice the bank’s 2 percent target.  Economic Risks  “The economic consequences of high-level indebtedness now
would become more severe if rates were to rise,” King said at a
committee of the European Parliament in Brussels on May 2.  Risks to economic growth in the U.K. are “skewed to the
downside,” the Bank of England said in its inflation report
released yesterday, which also showed policy makers predict
price growth will reach 5 percent this year. There is “no
doubt” that the U.K. faces a “difficult time ahead” as the
economy recovers from the recession, King told reporters after
the report’s release.  Money markets expect a full 25 basis-point increase in the
central bank’s key rate by January, Tullett Prebon Plc sterling
overnight interbank average forwards data show.  The U.K. sold 2 billion pounds of 4.25 percent bonds due
December 2040 at an auction today, according to data from the
Debt Management Office. Investors bid for 1.54 times more of the
securities than were offered, the data showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  