-- 
BT Fourth-Quarter Operating Profit Increases on More Broadband Customers

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-05-12T16:16:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/bt-fourth-quarter-profit-rises-on-more-broadband-customers-1-.html
BT Group Plc (BT/A) , the U.K.’s largest
fixed-line company, said fourth-quarter profit rose and a
regulator’s review of its pension funding program was halted,
ending a year of talks over the scale of the recovery plan.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization
and job-cut costs climbed 2.6 percent from a year earlier to
1.55 billion pounds ($2.53 billion) in the three months through
March, the company said in a statement. On a full-year basis,
earnings were 5.89 billion pounds, compared with analysts’
estimates of 5.84 billion pounds in a Bloomberg survey.  “It’s a continuation of the story, with a good management
team cutting costs,” said  Mark James , an analyst at  Liberum
Capital  in  London .  BT, based in London, is rolling out its high-speed fiber
services to counter declining revenue from its traditional
fixed-line offerings. The company has said it plans to spend 2.5
billion pounds for a faster network serving two-thirds of
British homes by 2015. The company signed up 252,000 net
additional broadband customers in the quarter.  The company raised its final dividend by 9 percent, to 5
pence a share, giving it a full-year dividend of 7.4 pence. BT
predicted adjusted Ebitda will rise in 2012 and will exceed 6
billion pounds in 2013.  “We expect to continue to grow our profits and free  cash
flow  whilst investing to return BT to growth,” Chief Executive
Officer Ian Livingston said in the statement. “These results
show we are making progress, but we are well aware there remains
a lot more to do.”  Pension Payments  BT said the pension regulator’s review of its 2008 pension
program and recovery plan is now on hold after more than a year
of negotiations.  The watchdog said today it still has “substantial
concerns” about an agreement with the trustees of BT’s pension
program to pay down the liability. The company, which currently
has a pension deficit of 1.4 billion pounds, has been waiting
for the regulator to finish its review since February last year.
BT is paying 525 million pounds each year until 2011 to reduce
the liability.  “The pension newsflow has got a lot better over the last
12 months,” Liberum’s James said. “One would always have
assumed that the regulatory stance should get more favorable to
BT.”  Fujitsu Negotiations  The company said in November that the government’s decision
to adjust the way that pensions are valued will reduce its
pension deficit and alter funding requirements after 2011.  “In 2011, unless something changes, we’d expect it to be
quite a bit lower than the 2008 valuation,” Livingston said
today on a conference call.  Fujitsu Ltd. is seeking access to BT’s network to extend
U.K. fiber broadband to 5 million homes and businesses, at a
cost of as much as 2 billion pounds. Fujitsu intends to lay
fiber through BT’s underground ducts and telegraph poles,
allowing  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)  and  TalkTalk Telecom Group Plc (TALK) 
wholesale access.  Livingston said today he was concerned that Fujitsu’s
investment plan may not be sufficiently “soundly based.”  BT is negotiating with Fujitsu on pricing, and a final
offer will depend on the outcome of trials, he said. “If
ultimately somebody says they want it for nothing, then I guess
the regulator will have to be involved in settling that dispute.  Fourth-quarter revenue dropped 5.6 percent to 5.06 billion
pounds, missing the average analyst estimate for 5.15 billion
pounds.  BT shares declined 1.4 percent in London trading today. The
stock has risen 10 percent this year, compared with a 0.8
percent gain for the U.K. benchmark FTSE 100 index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  