-- 
CaixaBank May Use Acquisitions to Grow in Spain, Nin Says

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-05-12T14:25:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/caixabank-may-use-acquisitions-to-grow-in-spain-nin-says-1-.html
CaixaBank, the lender being created
from the restructuring of the  La Caixa  savings bank group, may
use acquisitions to achieve its growth targets in Spain, Chief
Executive Officer Juan Maria Nin said.  Buying branches that become available as the country’s
banking system restructures may be one way for CaixaBank to
achieve a target of boosting its market share in Spain to 15
percent from 10 percent, Nin said.  Barcelona-based La Caixa, Spain’s second-biggest savings
bank group, is folding its banking business into  Criteria
CaixaCorp SA (CRI) , its listed holding company, to comply with tougher
 capital requirements . CaixaBank, as the group’s listed unit will
be called, will seek to extend its branch network to 6,000 from
about 5,400 through a growth plan that includes acquisitions.  “A number of 6,000 is reached with more economic logic
through non-organic growth, that’s to say through processes of
integration,” Nin said.  Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim  this week notified market
regulators that he has made a 4.5 million-euro ($6.5 million)
investment in Criteria.  The “chemistry” with Slim couldn’t be better and “time
will tell” where the partnership leads, La Caixa Chairman
Isidro Faine told reporters in Barcelona. CaixaBank’s holdings
include a 20 percent stake in  Grupo Financiero Inbursa SA (GFINBURO) , the
Mexican financial-services firm controlled by Slim.  Criteria shareholders approved the restructuring that will
create CaixaBank at a meeting today in Barcelona. The lender,
which will start trading on the stock exchange from July 1, is
on course to be the 10th-biggest bank in the euro-region by
market value, the group says.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  