-- 
California Public Retirement Fund Reports Gain of 18.6%, Led by Stocks

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-05-12T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/calpers-earns-18-6-percent-return-in-first-three-quarters-of-fiscal-year.html
The  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , the largest U.S. pension, said it earned 18.6
percent for the first three quarters of its fiscal year, led by
its stock holdings and private equity.  The $236.6 billion fund  said  its global equity portfolio
returned 29.8 percent through March 31. Private equity earned
17.6 percent, though reporting of the results may be as much as
four months behind.  “Our portfolio continues its strong recovery with solid
performance by global-equity, fixed-income, private-equity and
inflation-linked assets,” Chief Investment Officer  Joe Dear 
said. “Better risk management and patient adherence to a long-
term perspective are paying off.”  The latest earnings projection may help Calpers tamp
criticism that it relies on overly optimistic assumptions about
its rate of return that hide the true size of its deficits.
Public pension funds have become a political issue in states and
cities stung by a recession that battered their tax collections
and saddled funds with investment losses.  Calpers lost 23.4 percent in the fiscal year that ended
June 30, 2009, its worst one-year decline on record. In January,
it said it had only about 70 percent of the money it needs to
pay for benefits. The fund gained 13 percent last year. The 2009
loss means the pension fund has earned on average 5.49 percent
in the past 10 years.  Retirement Assets Grew  The assets of the 100 largest U.S. public employee
retirement systems grew by $138 billion to $2.64 trillion, or
5.5 percent in the last three months of 2010 from the previous
quarter as stock market gains helped recoup losses incurred
since the financial crisis, the  Census Bureau  reported in March.  “The impressive gains made this year take the air out of
the political arguments that we need to take drastic action that
puts the retirement security of millions of Californians at
risk,” said Steve Maviglio, spokesman for Californians for
Health Care and Retirement Security, a union-backed  coalition .
“They undermine the arguments of the political Chicken Littles
that suggest we need to take a wrecking ball to pension funds.”  States in 2009 had about $660 billion less than needed to
pay for promised pensions, according to a  report  last month by
the Washington-based  Pew Center on the States . Those liabilities
were based on assumed rates of return, typically about 8
percent, according to Pew.  Keeping Its Forecast  The 13-member Calpers board voted in March to keep its
forecast for investment returns at 7.75 percent, rejecting a
proposal by actuaries to reduce it to 7.5 percent because of the
expectation that market returns would trail the historical
average.  Some board members expressed concern that a lower rate
would have burdened local governments by forcing them to put
more cash into the fund at a time when they were already facing
financial strains.  “Public employees should be on a system that everyone can
understand and which doesn’t place the average taxpayer in the
position of having to work longer so that public employees can
retire earlier,” said Kris Vosburgh, executive director of the
Los Angeles-based  Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association , which
advocates for lower taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  