-- 
Canada March New House Price Index Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-05-12T12:30:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/canada-march-new-house-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the new house price index report for March released by
 Statistics Canada .  The New Housing Price Index (NHPI) was unchanged in
March following a 0.4% advance in February. Monthly
increases in some metropolitan regions were offset by
decreases in other regions resulting in no change to the
Canada level index.  Between February and March, prices rose the most in
Saint John, Fredericton and Moncton (+0.4%) followed by
the metropolitan regions of Toronto and Oshawa, Winnipeg
and Regina (all three registering increases of 0.3%).  In Saint John, Fredericton and Moncton as well as in
Toronto and Oshawa, builders reported that price increases
were a result of improving market conditions.  In Winnipeg, the increases were primarily due to higher
material and labour costs, while in Regina, higher land
development fees contributed to the rise in prices.  The most significant monthly price decreases were
recorded in Quebec (-0.7%), Windsor (-0.6%) and  Edmonton  
(-0.2%).  In Quebec and Edmonton, some builders reported that the
decreases were attributable to lower land costs. Slower
market conditions caused builders in Windsor to reduce
their prices.  Year over year, the NHPI was up 1.9% in March following
a 2.1% increase in February.  The main contributors to the year-over-year increase of
the NHPI in March were the metropolitan regions of Toronto
and Oshawa as well as  Montreal .  The largest year-over-year increase was observed in St.
John's (+6.2%), followed closely by Regina (+6.1%).  Compared with March 2010, contractors' selling prices
were also higher in Winnipeg (+4.5%) as well as in Toronto
and Oshawa (+3.6%).  Windsor (-4.6%),  London  (-1.7%), Greater Sudbury and
Thunder Bay (-1.3%) and Victoria (-1.2%) posted 12-month
declines in March.  Note: The New Housing Price Index measures changes over
time in the selling prices of new residential houses
agreed upon between the contractor and the buyer at the
time of the signing of the contract. It is designed to
measure the changes in the selling prices of new houses
where detailed specifications pertaining to each house
remain the same between two consecutive periods. The
prices collected from builders and included in the index
are market selling prices less value added taxes, such as
the Federal Goods and Services Tax or the Harmonized Sales
Tax.  This release presents data that are not seasonally
adjusted and the indexes published are final.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  