-- 
Cancer Sleuths Uncovering DNA Mysteries for Novartis, Glaxo

-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-05-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/cancer-sleuths-uncovering-dna-mysteries-for-novartis-glaxo.html
Most existing cancer treatments
either kill tumors outright with toxic chemotherapy or block
mutated genes that fuel tumor growth. Now drugmakers including
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ,  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , and  Novartis AG (NOVN)  are
chasing a third approach: reprogramming aberrant DNA that can
turn cells cancerous in the first place.  These new drugs exploit an emerging understanding of the
epigenome, the molecular machinery that cells use to turn genes
on and off, directing them when to produce proteins that carry
out most functions of life.  Celgene Corp. (CELG)  last year generated
$534 million in revenue from its epigenetic compound Vidaza,
which adds months of life for patients with myelodysplastic
syndrome, a leukemia-type disorder. Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its May 16 issue that the approach also underlies
blood-cancer drugs from Eisai Co. and Merck & Co.  The bigger payday will come from drugs that treat the
millions who suffer from more common forms of cancer, like those
affecting the lungs, breasts, or prostate. In January, Epizyme
Inc., a closely held company co-founded by H. Robert Horvitz,
the  Massachusetts  Institute of Technology Nobel laureate, agreed
to a deal worth as much as $650 million with London-based Glaxo
to search for epigenetics drugs for cancer. Novartis, Glaxo,
Indianapolis-based Lilly, and at least four venture-backed
startups are also racing to devise cell-reprogramming drugs for
more prevalent tumors.  “Every major company I know of has a program” in
epigenetics, says  Jean-Pierre Issa,  an oncologist at the
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston.  Top Sellers  One reason: Cancer medicines are the world’s top-selling
drug category, with $22.3 billion in U.S. sales last year, an
increase from $15.8 billion in 2006, according to IMS Health
Inc., a market research company in Norwalk,  Connecticut .  A successful new compound based on innovative science can
generate sales quickly. The last new approach to cancer
targeting mutated or overactive genes led to drugs like Gleevec,
a leukemia breakthrough sold by Basel, Switzerland-based
Novartis, and New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Sutent for kidney
cancer. Both drugs exceeded $1 billion in annual sales within 5
years of their debuts.  Scientists since the 1980s have focused on understanding
how cancer is spurred by damage to DNA inside cells, such as the
harm caused by smoking. Research over the last decade has found
that defects in so-called epigenetic control molecules may be as
important a cause of cancer as direct DNA damage, said Stephen
Baylin, a cancer biologist at  Johns Hopkins University  in
Baltimore. Baylin likens it to a computer malfunction caused by
bad software instructions, rather than a hardware fault.  Bar Codes  In the last few years, researchers have discovered that
there are hundreds of molecules that control genetic bar-code
labels on DNA. Normally, these codes help stem cells develop a
specialized identity to form tissue for muscle, skin or other
organs, said C. David Allis, a biochemist at Rockefeller
University in New York, and co-founder of Constellation
Pharmaceuticals Inc., based in Cambridge, Massachusetts. In
diseases such as cancer, some of the code appears to be damaged
or altered.  Epigenetic molecules are faulty in 60 percent of patients
with pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, the type of cancer that
 Steve Jobs ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s chief executive officer, has been
treated for,  Johns Hopkins  researchers reported in the journal
 Science  in March.  While scientists aren’t certain just how epigenetic
medicines work, one effect they appear to have is to reactivate
so-called tumor suppressor genes that keep cells from growing
out of control.  Theory’s Promise  With epigenetic drugs, “the therapeutic concept is to
revert those bar codes back to normal,” said Jonathan Yingling,
vice-president for cancer research at Lilly. “It would be hard
for you to find a  drug company  that is not investigating this.”  “If it lives up to its promise, it will make a significant
impact on cancer,” said Dash Dhanak, who leads the
GlaxoSmithKline cancer epigenetics effort.  The cancer epigenetics field started in the 1970s after an
unexpected discovery by a young researcher testing an unproven
drug from  Czechoslovakia . Peter Jones, now director of  USC
Norris Comprehensive Cancer Center  made a discovery that seemed
outlandish at the time soon after arriving in  Los Angeles  in
1973 for a postgraduate fellowship having grown up in  South
Africa  and Rhodesia.  While studying the effects of various experimental
chemotherapy drugs, he stumbled onto one -- called 5-azacytidine
-- with a surprising ability to turn precancerous mouse embryo
cells into muscle cells. They literally would start twitching a
couple weeks after treatment.  ‘Elated’  “I was elated because we seemed to have the first drug
capable of completely reprogramming cells,” he wrote in a 2011
essay. He first published the results in the journal Nature in
1977 and spent the next few years teasing out how the drug
worked.  It turned out that it blocked the ability of cells to add
 chemical tags  to strands of DNA. These tags, in effect tiny
molecular bar codes, were found to block cells from activating
genes.  In the mid-1980s, Baylin of Johns Hopkins started finding
abnormally high levels of the gene-silencing bar codes in the
DNA of tumors, including those in leukemia and  lung cancer .  
Baylin  and Jones proposed the abnormal bar codes could be an
important cause of cancer.  “There was a huge amount of skepticism,” said Issa, who
worked with Baylin at Johns Hopkins in the 1990s before moving
to MD Anderson. Biologists “said we know what causes cancer, it
is genetic changes and epigenetics is irrelevant.”  New Mechanism  In 1994, Baylin bolstered the theory by showing that a key
gene involved in kidney cancer was turned off through the DNA
reading process in 20 percent of human tumor samples tested,
even though the gene was fully functional. This indicated to
Baylin and others in the field that the bar code defects were an
alternative mechanism for tumor cells.  By that time,  Lewis Silverman , a hematologist at New York’s
Mount Sinai School of Medicine started testing 5-azacytidine,
the drug that would become  Vidaza,  in patients with
 myelodysplastic syndrome . The drug had been rejected by U.S.
regulators for treating acute leukemia. Silverman used lower
doses to reprogram the cells without killing them.  In 2001, the biotechnology company Pharmion Corp. obtained
rights to the drug. Pharmion spent two years tracking down old
patient records from Silverman’s studies, and used them to get
Vidaza approved for myelodysplastic syndrome in 2004. Celgene
bought Pharmion for $2.9 billion in March 2008 after the drug
was shown to extend life of patients by nine months. Dacogen, a
similar drug developed by  SuperGen Inc. (SUPG)  and marketed by Tokyo-
based Eisai in the U.S. was approved in 2006.  Solid Tumors  The question now is whether epigenetic cancer drugs can
move beyond their current niche in treating blood cancer to
treat common solid tumors. “There is no reason why it shouldn’t
work on solid tumors,” said  Robert Weinberg , a researcher at
MIT’s Whitehead Institute.  Faulty bar codes could prove “as important” as gene
mutations as a cause of cancer, he said, adding that the next
two or three years will give researchers a better sense of how
broad a role the bar codes play. “There is a lot of excitement
building because it is a new way in to target cancers,” said
Jeff Porter, a research executive at Novartis.  One target for drugmakers is an enzyme called EZH2 that is
overactive in  breast cancer , prostate cancer, and other tumors.
Constellation Pharmaceuticals and  Epizyme  are independently
pursuing drugs in preclinical studies against the enzyme, while
Glaxo plans human trials of its EZH2 blocker this year.  All Survived  In a 2010 study,  Charles Roberts,  a pediatric oncologist at
 Boston ’s Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, created a strain of mice
with a cancer-causing gene defect that is lethal within four
months. Then he took mice with the same defect and inactivated
EZH2. They all survived.  “It completely stops the cancer when we turn off EZH2,”
said Roberts. “The drug companies were swarming all over me”
when he presented the results at the  American Association  for
Cancer Research  conference  in April.  Epigenetic drugs also may make tumors more sensitive to
existing treatments, said Joanna Horobin, chief executive of
venture-backed Syndax Pharmaceuticals in Waltham, Mass. In lab
experiments, Syndax’s entinostat makes breast tumors more
sensitive to hormone therapy by reprogramming estrogen receptors
inside cells. Syndax “successfully completed” a 130-woman
trial aiming to show that entinostat in combination with
Aromasin slowed the progression of advanced breast cancer,
Horobin said. It plans to begin a final-stage trial in breast
cancer next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  