-- 
Capital Economics Says China Interbank Lending Rates Will Rise

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-12T11:43:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/capital-economics-says-china-interbank-lending-rates-will-rise.html
Mark Williams , Asia economist at
London-based Capital Economics, comments on the People’s Bank of
 China ’s decision today to increase banks’ reserve requirement
ratio by 0.5 percentage points. He made the comments in a
research report after the announcement.  On the impact of the increase:  “The moves will help the central bank prevent its own
foreign exchange purchases from fuelling a continued surge in
lending.  “The increase in the reserve ratio so far this year has
been more than enough to offset the increases to the monetary
base stemming from foreign exchange purchases and so has driven
banks’ excess reserve level down. The immediate impact of
today’s increase will therefore be to push up interbank rates.”  On the outlook for more reserve ratio adjustments and  interest
rates :  “There is a good chance that the pace of reserve ratio
increases will now slow. April’s data signaled that activity
growth is weakening, with the retail sales figures particularly
downbeat.  “Consumer price inflation is still high, but significant
further increases in the headline rate look unlikely, based on
recent price trends. We therefore believe that the balance of
concern within the government will shift to the growth outlook
and that the People’s Bank will call a halt to the tightening of
monetary conditions, as proxied by the level of interbank rates,
in the second half of the year.  “Further benchmark rate hikes are unlikely and we expect a
further three 50 basis-point increases in the reserve ratio over
the remainder of the year.  “If we are right about the benign outlook for inflation,
the government will have plenty of room for maneuver if it needs
to stimulate growth again later in the year.”  --Nerys Avery in Beijing. Editor:  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg news staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7558 or
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  