-- 
Carbon-Storing Forest Clients Cautious Before Australian Laws

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-05-12T01:45:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/carbon-storing-forest-clients-cautious-before-australian-laws-are-passed.html
Carbon Conscious Ltd. (CCF) , an Australian
company that plants gum-trees to absorb greenhouse gas
emissions, said customers are cautious in committing to programs
to curb carbon output before climate laws are passed.  “There’s a whole lot of re-interest in the space but I
think we really need the legislation to pass before we’ll start
to see substantial movements from clients,” Chief Executive
Officer Peter Balsarini said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“It’s fair to say once bitten, twice shy, in terms of moving
before the” laws are introduced.  BP Plc (BP/) , Europe’s third-largest oil company, and  Origin
Energy Ltd. (ORG)  hired Perth-based Carbon Conscious in 2009 to plant
as many as 40 million trees on less-arable farmland before
Australia shelved climate-change laws in April 2010. Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  promised to restart efforts to tackle
emissions when she replaced Kevin Rudd in June.  Gillard wants to set a carbon price for Australia, the
world’s biggest  coal exporter , starting in July 2012 before a
trading system that may begin as early as 2015. The nation has
set a target of generating 20 percent of its power from
renewable sources including wind and solar by 2020.  Planting the  mallee eucalypt trees  will generate permits
that will allow companies to reduce their liability under the
proposed tax and will be tradable under the system that may
begin in 2015, Balsarini said. The trees absorb and store
emissions in their leaves, twigs and roots. About five are
needed to absorb 1 metric ton of carbon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane Lee in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net  