-- 
McConnell Seeks Cuts to Medicare and Medicaid in U.S. Debt-Cutting Talks

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-05-13T20:11:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/mcconnell-seeks-significant-spending-changes-in-debt-plan-1-.html
Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  said he wants “significant” near-term cuts in
federal agency budgets paired with longer-term reductions to
programs like Medicare and Medicaid in exchange for his support
for a boost in the U.S. debt limit.  Speaking to reporters yesterday after Senate Republicans
met with President  Barack Obama  in  Washington , McConnell said he
wants goals set over time to help curb federal budget deficits,
including caps for the next two years on spending for programs
appropriated by Congress.  McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, said he will insist
on big policy changes in the Medicare and Medicaid health-care
programs to help restore the nation’s fiscal balance. He urged
Obama to help specify adjustments both parties can embrace.
Doing so now, with bipartisan support, would help nullify the
policy changes as issues in the 2012 elections, he said.  “We can do something important for the country together,
and this is the opportunity,” the top Senate Republican said.
“That is the importance of this debt ceiling moment. It is the
one time when we have to come together, and we need to come
together to do something really significant.”  While he said he favors addressing the long-term solvency
of Social Security, McConnell said that is unlikely to happen as
part of a debt-limit vote because of Democratic opposition.  Obama is reaching out to lawmakers in both parties to win
approval of an increase in the debt ceiling. The government is
scheduled to hit the $14.3 trillion debt limit next week and
will run out of options for avoiding default by early August,
according to projections by Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner .  Republican Support  Republican support for any deficit-cutting plan is critical
in both chambers. Republicans control the House, and while
Democrats control 53 seats in the 100-member Senate, that’s well
short of the 60 needed to end a filibuster that blocks
legislation.  The meeting Obama held yesterday with Senate Republicans
was described by White House press secretary  Jay Carney  as
“constructive.”  Obama delivered the same message that he did in a session
with Senate Democrats a day earlier: “We all need to work
together to find common ground,” Carney said at a White House
briefing. “Both sides have to give a little.”  Republicans who met with Obama said a major area of
disagreement was whether to include tax increases in any
agreement. Republicans argued against them while the
administration supports some tax increases, they said.  ‘Point of Disagreement’  “The president indicated that’s a point of disagreement,”
said Senator John Hoeven, a Republican from  North Dakota .  Vice President  Joe Biden  held a separate discussion
yesterday with a bipartisan group of legislative leaders who
first began meeting with him of the fiscal issues May 5.  “We are actually making progress,” Biden told reporters
afterward. “I’m convinced we can get a significant down
payment” on reducing the debt. The group plans to meet again
after the House’s one-week recess next week, said the vice
president, who also said he doesn’t have a timetable for
reaching a decision.  ‘Positive’ Talks  Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a Maryland Democrat
participating in the talks, called them “positive and
constructive,” while also saying in an interview that the group
hadn’t yet dealt with “politically nuclear” issues.  McConnell told reporters a comprehensive tax overhaul can’t
be accomplished before August. On spending caps, he said that in
addition to a two-year agreement on discretionary spending
limits, he wants a five- or 10-year plan to reduce spending for
entitlement programs and for programs determined annually by
Congress.  He declined to specify any changes he would make to
Medicare or Medicaid, and said the ideas  outlined  by leaders of
Obama’s debt commission last year could be a basis for a plan.  McConnell’s push for strict limits came as House Speaker
 John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said he wants any deal to lean
in favor of specific cuts to programs, including entitlement
programs. He expressed skepticism about broad longer-term limits
on debt, deficits or spending.  Obama Proposal  Obama has proposed a debt “fail-safe” that would trigger
cuts and tax changes to raise more revenue if the ratio of debt
to gross domestic product hasn’t stabilized by 2014. Senate
Republicans have been weighing a bipartisan proposal to cap
spending at 20.6 percent of GDP in a decade, down from 24.3
percent now.  “I don’t want phony caps, I don’t want phony targets”
because “Congress has found a way to wiggle out of them,”
Boehner said. Congress must act now to curb spending, the
speaker said, as otherwise “the markets will act for us very
soon.”  Legislation to cap federal spending at 18 percent of
gross domestic product by 2016 was proposed today by  House
Republicans . The measure would automatically rescind spending if
Congress misses the target, as calculated by the Office of
Management and Budget.  Georgia Republican Jack Kingston, the primary sponsor, told
reporters he believed the House Republican leadership “wants
this to be part of the discussion with the president” when he
was asked about the speaker’s comments about “phony caps.”  Boehner’s spokesman,  Michael Steel , responded to Kingston’s
comment by saying, “We’re willing to look at any proposal that
would result in real spending cuts.”  Support Predicted  Ohio Representative Jim Jordan, chairman of the Republican
Study Group, predicted that spending caps would get support of
many members of that caucus.  The cost of  government borrowing  has remained low by
historical standards. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
Treasury note was 3.172 percent at 1:38 p.m. in  New York  and has
averaged 3.36 percent since April 18, when  Standard & Poor’s 
warned that  U.S. debt  risks losing its AAA credit rating unless
Congress and the president implement a plan to reduce annual
deficits and long-term debt by 2013.  Obama has proposed cutting $4 trillion over 12 years
through spending cuts and tax increases, such as eliminating tax
incentives for  oil companies  to drill for new petroleum sources.
The House-approved Republican budget resolution would cut $6
trillion over a decade and privatize Medicare for people now
younger than 55.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  