-- 
Chevron Court Order Barring Amazon Judgment Is Partly Lifted

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-05-12T22:15:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/chevron-order-barring-amazon-judgment-is-partially-lifted-by-appeals-court.html
Ecuadoreans whose $18 billion verdict
against  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  in their country was put on hold by a U.S.
judge won an appeals court ruling they say will allow them to
raise money to enforce the judgment at a later date.  A three-judge panel in  New York  today granted a request to
partially lift a lower-court order that restrained the
Ecuadorean residents’ efforts to enforce the Feb. 14 judgment
over environmental damage to the Amazon River basin. The court
refused the Ecuadorean plaintiffs’ request to put on hold a
lawsuit Chevron filed against them now pending in federal court
in  Manhattan .  The panel also said it would expedite the schedule for
hearing the appeal of the restraining order, which blocked the
Ecuadoreans from trying to collect the judgment in a U.S. or
foreign court anywhere in the world.  The appeals court said the plaintiffs aren’t restrained by
the lower-court order “other than commencing, prosecuting or
receiving benefit from recognition, enforcement, or prejudgment
seizure or attachment proceedings.”  The appeals court’s decision allows the Ecuadoreans to meet
with their American lawyers and raise money to enforce the
judgment in the oil-cleanup lawsuit at a later date, Karen Hinton, a spokeswoman for the plaintiffs, said in an e-mail.  ‘All Key Respects’  Justin Higgs, a Chevron spokesman, said the company is
pleased with today’s ruling, which he said keeps the lower
court’s order “in place in all key respects, and rejects the
defendants’ efforts to derail the November 2011 trial on the
enforceability of the fraudulent Ecuadorean judgment.”  “This injunction was never about whether denying the
defendants the right to communicate with their clients or
fundraise,” Higgs said in an e-mail. “It was about preventing
them from furthering enforcement proceedings and financially
benefiting from them, which the Second Circuit has now affirmed
they cannot do.”  The appeals court case is Chevron Corp. v. Hugo Gerardo
Camacho Naranjo, 11-1150,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second
Circuit (New York). The case in  Ecuador  is Maria Aquinda v.
Chevron, 002-2003, Superior Court of Nueva Loja, Lago Agrio,
Ecuador.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco federal court
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 