-- 
Caterpillar, Zimmer Executives Seek Overseas Tax Changes

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-05-12T17:27:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/chief-financial-officers-seek-end-to-tax-on-worldwide-profits.html
Chief financial officers from
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ,  Zimmer Holdings
Inc. (ZMH)  and  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB)  called on Congress to permanently
end taxation of the overseas profits of U.S.-based companies and
avoid a one-time holiday on repatriating those profits.  The executives, testifying at the House Ways and Means
Committee in  Washington  today, said a switch to a territorial
tax system like that used by other major industrialized
countries would help their companies compete worldwide.  “What we are asking for is a level playing field when we
compete with foreign competitors,” said Edward Rapp, group
president and chief financial officer of Caterpillar.  Currently, the U.S. taxes the worldwide profits of U.S.-
based companies. Companies receive tax credits for payments made
to other governments and can defer U.S. taxation until they
bring profits home.  The four chief financial officers testifying at the hearing
said they oppose a one-time repatriation holiday that would
allow companies to bring back overseas profits at a reduced
rate. Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican, and House
Majority Leader Eric Cantor of Virginia have proposed such a
holiday, backed by companies including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  and  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)   ‘Treats the Symptom’  A holiday “treats the symptom and not the underlying
issue,” said Mark Buthman of Dallas-based Kimberly-Clark, which
makes Huggies diapers and Viva paper towels.  The committee, led by Republican Representative  Dave Camp 
of Michigan, is conducting a series of hearings on a possible
overhaul of the U.S. tax code.  The executives said their overseas operations are built on
research and manufacturing facilities in the U.S. Their
companies need to operate around the world to serve
international markets, they said.  “You can’t build an elevator in Hartford, Connecticut, and
ship it to  Shanghai ,” said Gregory Hayes, senior vice president
and chief financial officer of Hartford-based United
Technologies, which makes Otis elevators and Carrier air-
conditioning systems.  Representative Xavier Becerra said companies calling for a
territorial tax system like those of some European countries
shouldn’t “cherry pick” one aspect of a comprehensive approach
that includes value-added taxes, more regulation and higher
income taxes.  Deductions and Credits  “If you like one aspect of what they do, do you like the
rest of what they do?” asked Becerra, a California Democrat.  Jane Gravelle, a senior specialist in economic policy at
the  Congressional Research Service  who testified at the hearing,
said moving to a territorial system would hurt investment and
wages in the U.S. and encourage companies to reclassify profits
earned in the U.S. as being earned overseas.  “I don’t see that cutting taxes abroad is going to help
bring capital here,” she said. “I think it will be the
opposite.”  James Hines, a professor at the University of  Michigan ,
said that argument assumes a set amount of capital and that U.S.
companies cannot invest both abroad and at home.  Corporate Tax Overhaul  President Barack Obama has called for an overhaul of the
U.S. corporate tax system that would lower the statutory 35
percent corporate rate, remove tax deductions and credits and
generate the same amount of money as the current system does.  The administration has made a series of proposals that
would limit companies’ ability to defer profits earned outside
the U.S., which would be the opposite of shifting to a
territorial system.  Hayes, along with chief financial officers James Crines of
Zimmer and Buthman of Kimberly-Clark, said they would trade
deductions and incentives their companies receive in the current
 tax code  for a corporate rate in the mid-20 percent range. Hayes
said Congress should consider curtailing accelerated
depreciation rules and the research and development tax credit
as part of an overhaul.  The executives also called for a simpler tax system.  “I have a federal tax return of 19,000 pages,” Hayes
said. “19,000. I mean, that’s crazy. The fact is we need to
simplify the tax code.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  