-- 
Chile May Raise Rate to 4.75%, Slowing Pace on Peso, Easing CPI

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-05-12T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/chile-may-raise-rate-to-4-75-slowing-pace-on-peso-easing-cpi.html
Chile ’s central bank probably will
slow the pace of interest-rate increases today as the currency’s
rally and a lower-than-estimated rise in consumer prices last
month help keep inflation expectations in check.  The five-member policy board, led by bank President Jose De Gregorio, will increase the benchmark overnight rate by a
quarter-point to 4.75 percent, according to 14 of 18 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Four analysts forecast the bank to raise
by a half-point for the third straight month.  Inflation in  South America ’s fifth-biggest economy rose
less than expected in April while economic growth has exceeded
forecasts so far in 2011. Policy makers may judge that slower
tightening will still keep inflation in check without fueling
additional peso gains, said  Alejandro Puente , an economist with
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA. (BBVA)   “A half-point increase would surprise the market and could
have an unwanted impact on the exchange rate,” Puente said by
telephone from Santiago. “The central bank has given signals
that it feels it has space to slow the pace of rate rises.”  The economy expanded 5.2 percent last year and could grow
as much as 6.5 percent in 2011, which would be its fastest pace
in more than a decade, according to central bank forecasts.  Economic activity increased a higher-than-estimated 6.8
percent in January, 7.2 percent in February and 15.2 percent in
March from the previous year, according to central bank data.  Growth, Prices  The growth reflects gains in consumption and investments
and in the case of March a weak base of comparison, as Chile was
recovering last year from the 8.8-magnitude temblor that struck
Feb. 27, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told reporters in
Santiago last week.  Chile’s economic expansion is under control and isn’t
creating excessive inflationary pressures, the central bank’s
chief economist, Luis Oscar Herrera, told a conference in
Santiago last week.  “The evidence for overheating that can be deduced from the
recent evolution of inflation is weak,” Herrera said. “In the
case of Chile, the recent situation doesn’t show symptoms of
excessive growth of internal credit or external debt.”  Consumer prices in Chile rose a slower-than-estimated 0.3
percent in April from the previous month and 3.2 percent from a
year ago, down from 3.4 percent in March, the National
Statistics Institute said in a report last week.  Expectations  The central bank targets annual inflation of 3 percent,
plus or minus 1 percentage point over a two-year horizon.  Two-year breakeven inflation, which reflects views of
average price increases, declined to 3.61 yesterday from 4.15
percent before the bank’s April 12 monthly meeting.  Annual inflation will reach 4.3 percent in December this
year, according to the median estimate of 66 economists in a
monthly central bank survey, published May 10. Economists
estimated annual inflation would reach 4.4 percent in the April
survey.  Inflation expectations have moderated because of central
bank rate increases and government plans to cut planned spending
this year by the equivalent of 0.38 percent of gross domestic
product, Larrain told reporters in Santiago last week.  Government efforts to reduce inflation could allow the
central bank to slow the pace of rate increases, which in turn
could help stem the peso’s gains against the dollar, he said.  Peso, Rate Outlook  “I hope the increase in the interest rate could slow,”
Larrain said. “I hope the bank takes into consideration that
fiscal budget cuts are helping to control inflation. Secondly,
prices are growing at a pace that is somewhat below
expectations, and the  exchange rate  is helping in this area.”  A stronger peso reduces the cost of some imports, the
minister said. The peso has appreciated 13 percent in the past
12 months, beating out the six other major Latin American
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Chile’s central bank has raised  interest rates  in 10 of its
last 11 monthly meetings from a record low of 0.5 percent to
today’s 4.5 percent. It will continue to remove the monetary
stimulus in coming months at a pace that depends on economic
conditions, policy makers said in a statement accompanying their
last meeting.  After raising rates to 4.75 percent today, policy makers
will increase lending costs to 5.75 percent by November and 6
percent by May 2012, holding them at that level through at least
May 2013, according to the median estimate of 53 traders and
investors in central bank survey released yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  