-- 
Chile Raises Rate More Than Expected to 5% as Growth Boosts Inflation Risk

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-05-12T22:37:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/chile-raises-interest-rates-more-than-estimated-as-inflation-threat-grows.html
Chile ’s central bank raised its
benchmark interest rate more than expected today amid concern
that surging economic growth gives policy makers no leeway to
ease up on the current pace of tightening.  The five-member policy board, led by bank President Jose De Gregorio, raised the overnight rate by a half-point to 5
percent, matching the forecast of four of 18 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Fourteen analysts forecasted a quarter-point
increases to 4.75 percent.  Rising food and energy costs prompted the bank to quicken
the pace of rate increases in March and April to a half point
after four quarter-point increases and a pause in the October-
through-February cycle. Today’s decision seeks to further
contain inflation even as concern that higher rates may
accelerate capital inflows and further strengthen the peso, said
Matias  Madrid , an economist at Banco Penta in Santiago.  “The bank definitely is more concerned about inflation
than the  exchange rate ,” Madrid said by telephone from
Santiago. “Most of the market was expecting a quarter-point, so
this decision could cause the peso to appreciate.”  The bank has raised borrowing costs faster than any other
major rate-setting institution tracked by Bloomberg in the last
year.  “Additional increases in the monetary policy rate will be
necessary,” the central bank said in a statement accompanying
today’s decision. Policy makers have raised rates at 11 of their
past 12 monthly meetings.  Region-Beating Rally  During that time, the peso has appreciated 14 percent
against the  U.S. dollar , beating out the six other major Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The reduced monetary stimulus has not stopped Chile’s
economic expansion from exceeding estimates so far this year
after it grew 5.2 percent in 2010, the fastest annual growth
since 2005.  “Activity, demand and labor market data reflect the
economy’s vigor,” the central bank said today.  Economic activity grew a faster-than-forecast 6.8 percent
in January, 7.2 percent in February and 15.2 percent in March
from the previous year, according to central bank data.  The growth reflects gains in domestic consumption and
investments and in the case of March a weak base of comparison,
as Chile last year was recovering from the 8.8-magnitude temblor
that struck Feb. 27, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said last
week.  Expansion ‘Threat’  The expansion could pose a threat to inflation if demand
exceeds output capacity,  De Gregorio  told senate members in
Santiago on April 4.  “It can’t be ruled out that activity and demand could
evolve above expectations,” he said at the time. That could
create “higher-than-anticipated inflationary pressures.”  The economy, which is on track to grow more than 6 percent
this year, isn’t overheating and is not putting pressure on
inflation, Larrain told a World Bank forum in Santiago this
week.  Inflation rates and forecasts have declined on the reduced
monetary stimulus, government efforts to cut planned spending
and a stronger peso, which can reduce the price of imports,
Larrain told reporters last week.  “Private inflation expectations show a reversal, although
they remain above the target,” the central bank said today.  Monthly inflation slowed to 0.3 percent in April from 0.8
percent in March while the annual rate eased to 3.2 percent from
3.4 percent in March, the National Statistics Institute said in
a report last week.  Food, Oil  Annual inflation will quicken to 3.9 percent in 12 months
and 3.5 percent in two years, according to the median estimate
of 53 traders in a May 11 central bank survey.  Traders in the previous survey, published April 27,
forecasted an annual inflation rate of 4.2 percent in 12 months
and 3.6 percent in two years.  Chile’s central bank targets annual inflation of 3 percent,
plus or minus 1 percentage point over a 24-month horizon.  Reduced commodity prices also have helped temper inflation
estimates, Madrid said.  Bloomberg’s global commodity index, which calculates the
mean of indexes including energy, grains, food, precious metals
and livestock, declined 5 percent in month through May 11. West
Texas Intermediate crude weakened 11 percent over the same
period.  To be sure, global oil and food prices still pose a threat
to Chile’s inflation rate, Larrain told the World Bank forum.  “Not everything is rosy,” Larrain said. “Inflation is
mainly imported from food prices, which are driving part of the
inflation, and rest is from oil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  