-- 
China’s Nuclear Safety Review Impact Will Be ‘Small,’ Energy Official Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-12T03:13:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/china-safety-reviews-of-nuclear-plants-have-small-impact-official-says.html
China ’s safety review of its atomic
power plants will have little impact on expansion and achieving
nuclear generation capacity of 70 to 80 gigawatts by 2020 is
“still achievable,” an industry group official said.  Nuclear plants “under construction are still undergoing
construction as planned. There’s no impact on those,” Xu Yuming, vice secretary general of the China Nuclear Energy
Association, said in an interview before a conference in Beijing
today. “There will probably be some delays in new projects
waiting for approval but the impact will be small.”  China on March 16 announced a freeze on approvals for new
reactors as regulators examine safety procedures following
 Japan ’s nuclear crisis at Fukushima after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami. China has 14 operational nuclear
reactors and is building at least 26, according to the  World
Nuclear Association  website.  “Fukushima has made us pause and rethink some of our
projects. The industry will progress in a safer and more orderly
manner. Of course, the overall plan won’t be changed,” Xu said.
“As a developing nation, China faces power shortages and we
need to change our energy mix. To resolve these two issues, we
must develop nuclear.”  China may have 200 gigawatts of nuclear power capacity by
2030 and 400 gigawatts by 2050, according to Xu. Nuclear power
is likely to meet 15 percent of the nation’s energy demand by
2050, Xu said.  The country may build third-generation nuclear power plants
on a larger scale in about 2015, he said. China’s existing
reactors use second-generation technology, the official Xinhua
News Agency said last July.  First-generation reactors started in the 1950s and 1960s
and there are none outside the U.K. today, according to the
 World Nuclear Association . Second-generation units are also used
in the U.S. and  France , while early third-generation reactor
designs have been operating in Japan since 1996.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  