-- 
China ‘Over-Tightening’ Concern to Limit Rate Moves as Reserve Ratio Rises

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-13T04:07:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/china-over-tightening-concern-to-limit-rate-moves-as-reserve-ratio-rises.html
China  may limit interest-rate
increases over the rest of the year, focusing on other tools for
combating inflation as the government seeks to cool prices
without choking off growth.  The central bank yesterday raised banks’  reserve
requirements  for the fifth time this year. The half-point
increase takes effect May 18 and will boost levels for the
nation’s biggest lenders to a record 21 percent.  Policy makers will raise borrowing costs only once more
this year, after four increases in the past seven months,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG predicted
yesterday. Higher  interest rates  may damp growth while also
attracting speculative capital, or “hot money,” to the
fastest-growing major economy. Alternative tools include quicker
gains in the yuan, as sought by the U.S.  “The room for further rate hikes is quite small this year
on concerns of hot money and economic growth,” said Lu Ting, a
Hong Kong-based economist for Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
“We surely expect more reserve requirement ratio hikes.”  Goldman analysts said officials may allow the yuan to keep
climbing against the dollar at a 6 percent annual pace. The
currency traded at 6.5013 per dollar as of 11:49 a.m. in
 Shanghai . The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.1 percent as of
the 11:30 a.m. local time break in trading.  ‘Hard Landing’ Concern  The Conference Board said today that the risk of an
economic “hard landing” for China may be easing as the New
York-based research organization reported that its leading index
for the nation climbed in March.  The central bank raised reserve requirements a day after
reports showed inflation and lending exceeded economists’
estimates in April, with consumer prices rising more than 5
percent. The same batch of data showed industrial output growth
slowed, suggesting that the nation’s expansion may be cooling
from a 9.7 percent annual pace in the first quarter.  Stocks and commodities fell after the central bank
announcement on speculation that slower growth will curb demand
for raw materials. At Deutsche, Hong Kong-based economist  Ma Jun 
said calls from within the government to avoid policy “over-
tightening” may influence interest-rate decisions.  Stronger Currency  Accelerated gains in the yuan saw the currency break 6.5
per dollar for the first time since 1993 on April 29. U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  pushed at talks in
 Washington  this week for a faster appreciation that he says
would boost consumption in China, ease inflation and limit
global economic imbalances.  Alongside monetary tools, the government has used
administrative measures. This month, the National Development
and Reform Commission said Unilever, the world’s second-largest
consumer-goods maker, will be fined $300,000 for telling the
media that it planned to raise prices, reportedly triggering
panic buying and hoarding.  Jim O’Neill , who chairs Goldman Sachs Asset Management and
coined the acronym BRIC for the economies of  Brazil ,  Russia ,
 India  and China, said yesterday that China’s inflation “won’t
be a problem” in the second half of this year. The nations’
stocks may have a “big rally” as price gains moderate and
tightening ends, he told reporters in Hong Kong.  Yesterday’s move locked up about 370 billion yuan ($57
billion), according to  Barclays Capital . It may have been
triggered by the extra cash entering the financial system from
maturing central bank bills, according to Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc. Inflows of so-called hot money may also have been a factor,
said Bank of America’s Lu.  Food, Housing, Clothes  The ruling Communist Party aims to prevent increases in
food and housing costs from fueling social unrest. Consumer
prices jumped 5.4 percent in March, the most since July 2008. In
April, the gain was 5.3 percent.  Clothing costs climbed 1.4 percent last month from a year
earlier, the biggest gain since 1997, a statistics bureau report
showed this week. Non-food inflation held at 2.7 percent, the
fastest pace in at least six years. Food inflation, the biggest
single driver of the consumer-price index, exceeded 11 percent
for a third month.  Higher commodity costs, inflows of capital, and the extra
cash in the economy from a stimulus program started in late 2008
have added to inflation risks. The nation’s world-record
foreign-exchange reserves exceeded $3 trillion for the first
time in March.  --Nerys Avery, Sophie Leung, Zheng Lifei. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Fergal O’Brien  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at +852-2977-6603 or
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  