-- 
China Orders Banks to Set Aside More Funds as Reserves to Cool Inflation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-12T11:58:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/china-orders-banks-to-set-aside-more-cash-as-reserves-to-cool-inflation.html
China  raised banks’ reserve
requirements for the fifth time this year to restrain prices,
underscoring the risk that tightening measures will cause a
slowdown in the world’s second-biggest economy.  Reserve ratios will increase 0.5 percentage point from May
18, the People’s Bank of China said on its website today. That
will boost levels for the nation’s biggest lenders to a record
21 percent.  The central bank moved after reports yesterday showed
inflation and lending exceeded economists’ estimates in April,
with consumer prices rising more than 5 percent for a second
month. Premier  Wen Jiabao  aims to tame inflation that is
spreading beyond food to other goods, while sustaining growth as
the economy shows signs of cooling.  “Controlling inflation will definitely entail a slowdown
in growth and the authorities understand that,” said  Wang Qing ,
chief China economist at Morgan Stanley. “The slowdown we’ve
seen so far doesn’t indicate there is a risk of a hard landing,
that’s why the policy priority at the moment is still to control
inflation.”  Commodities extended declines after the announcement, with
the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials sliding
1.7 percent to 669.25 points at 11:42 a.m. in  London .  Stronger Yuan  Besides raising  interest rates  and reserve requirements,
and guiding banks to limit credit growth, officials have
accelerated gains in the yuan, which broke 6.5 per dollar for
the first time since 1993 on April 29. U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  pushed at talks in  Washington  this week for
faster appreciation that he says would boost consumption in
China, ease inflation and limit global economic imbalances.  Jim O’Neill , who chairs Goldman Sachs Asset Management and
coined the acronym BRIC for the economies of  Brazil ,  Russia ,
 India  and China, said today that China’s inflation “won’t be a
problem” in the second half of this year. The nations’ stocks
may have a “big rally” as price gains moderate and tightening
ends, he told reporters in Hong Kong.  Weaker growth in industrial production, detailed in
yesterday’s statistics bureau report in Beijing, came after a
manufacturing index declined in April, signaling economic growth
may be cooling after a 9.7 percent expansion in the first
quarter. Power shortages in some provinces may also have
affected the output numbers. The economy’s growth peaked at 11.9
percent during last year.  Locking Up Cash  Today’s move locks up about 370 billion yuan ($57 billion),
according to  Barclays Capital . It may have been triggered by the
extra cash entering the financial system from maturing central
bank bills, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.  Inflows of so-called hot money, or speculative capital, may
also have been a factor, said Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based
economist for Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  The ruling Communist Party aims to prevent increases in
food and housing costs from fueling social unrest. Consumer
prices jumped 5.4 percent in March, the most since July 2008. In
April, the gain was 5.3 percent.  Clothing costs climbed 1.4 percent last month from a year
earlier, the biggest gain since 1997, a statistics bureau report
showed yesterday. Non-food inflation held at 2.7 percent, the
fastest pace in at least six years. Food inflation, the biggest
single driver of the consumer-price index, exceeded 11 percent
for a third month.  Higher commodity costs, inflows of capital, and the extra
cash in the economy from a stimulus program started in late 2008
have added to inflation risks. The nation’s world-record
foreign-exchange reserves exceeded $3 trillion for the first
time in March.  Unilever, the world’s second-largest consumer-goods maker,
said March 31 that it was among companies to have postponed
price increases at the government’s request. Officials later
announced that the company will be fined for telling the media
of its plans to raise prices.  --Nerys Avery, Sophie Leung. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Nerys Avery.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at +852-2977-6603 or
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  