-- 
China’s Plan to Build Record Cheap Housing May Squeeze Developers’ Profit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-12T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/china-s-cheap-homes-plan-may-squeeze-profits.html
Chinese developers’ profit margins
are set to shrink as they build public housing projects to stay
on good terms with the government.  China  is aiming to add a record 36 million units of
affordable or social housing in the next five years, to cover 20
percent of the country’s residential market, the government
said. Building these homes will cut developers’ profit margins
to a range of 3 percent to 8 percent, down from at least 10
percent from private residential properties, according to Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc’s estimates.  Developers such as China Vanke Co. are taking part in the
plan even as they struggle to profit from the projects: Vanke
said it will take 57 years for the company’s first social
housing project to break even.  Soho China Ltd. (410)  has warned that
at least half of the country’s developers will go out of
business if they are forced to embark on such projects.  “Developers won’t do social housing if they can make more
money in high-end,” said  Donald Straszheim , Los Angeles-based
director of China research at  International Strategy &
Investment Group . “The government’s job is to make sure that
the system works whereby they can’t get land for high-end
without doing enough social housing.”  About 10 million of those homes are planned for this year
and next, almost twice the 5.8 million target for 2010, the
government said.  Developers “are willing to take on these homes in exchange
for later goodies from local governments, such as favorable
policies when they bid for land in new cities,”  Du Jinsong , a
Hong Kong-based property analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said
in a phone interview.  Local Governments  China is accelerating the development of affordable housing
after home prices climbed for 19 straight months to December
2010, and increased in almost all 70 cities the government
tracked in the first three months. The 36 million homes will
house about 80 million people, Du estimates.  Local governments will lead the development of affordable
homes based on the central authority’s targets. The capital
Beijing has packaged some land sales where a portion needs to be
set aside for social housing projects. The eastern city of
Hangzhou has outsourced affordable projects to private
developers, while Chongqing and other cities use government-
owned builders, Du said.  At least 70 percent of land put up for sale should be
allocated for social housing, the government said in its 12th
five-year plan released in March.  Affordable Leases  A large number of these homes will be rented out based on
income limits, the government said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  visited an affordable housing
construction site in Beijing during the May 1 Labor Day weekend
and reiterated the promise to bring down property prices.
President  Hu Jintao  also urged local governments to increase
 capital investment  and land allocation for these projects, the
official Xinhua news agency reported.  Affordable homes, usually built on the city’s outskirts and
on locations with lower land values, are priced at a fraction of
private apartments, according to Credit Suisse. RBS estimates
that affordable homes are between 30 percent and 50 percent
cheaper than private apartments within the neighborhoods.  China’s construction of low-income homes will boost supply
and stabilize the housing market like a “sedative,” Vice
Premier Li Keqiang said, according to a summary of a speech
posted last month on the website of Qiushi, the official
Communist Party magazine.  China Vanke  Vanke, the largest developer by market value, plans to
build more of these homes even though it hasn’t found a
profitable model, President Yu Liang said in a March 10
briefing.  “We are building social housing projects mainly because we
are a responsible leader in the industry,” Yu said, according
to a  transcript  of the press conference posted on  SouFun
Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , China’s biggest real estate website owner. “We
only request for 1 yuan of profit for these homes, because we
need to tell our shareholders that we didn’t lose money on
these.”  Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333) , the country’s second-
biggest developer by sales, will build affordable homes as part
of its corporate social responsibility program and not for
profit, Chief Executive Officer Xia Haijun said on March 14.  Later Benefit  “Local governments need help from developers in building
social housing,” said Jeffrey Gao, a Shanghai-based property
analyst at RBS. “Those that helped at the early stage will
probably get some benefit from the government later on.”  Shanghai Greenland Group Co. , which announced plans on Dec.
8 for a 30 billion yuan ($4.6 billion) development that will be
the world’s third-tallest building in the central Chinese city
of Wuhan, said the same day it would build 500,000 square meters
of social housing for the city.  “Developers might not make much money from social housing
in the short term, but when the market expands, the early birds
with good branding will not be left out,” said Danny Ma,
Shanghai-based senior director for CB Richard Ellis Group Inc.  Beijing may require developers set aside as much as 30
percent of the land they buy for affordable homes in the city,
said Mao Yaqing, vice president of Beijing Urban Construction
Investment & Development Co., a state-owned company. Margins for
such homes are less than 3 percent, and he’s counting on private
apartments to lift the average earnings, he said.  ‘Worst Location’  “When you go to neighborhoods with mixed-projects, you’ll
find the social housing apartments in the worst location of each
site, the ones with the afternoon sun and those facing noisy
streets,” Mao said. “Developers will have to do that because
of the margins, and the government knows that.”  The government imposed new curbs this year including higher
minimum down payments for second homes and residential property
taxes in Shanghai and Chongqing. Local governments in Beijing
and Guangzhou followed with restrictions on housing purchases.
The central bank also raised  interest rates  four times since
October and yesterday increased the amounts banks need to set
aside as reserves for an eighth time during that period.  “The government’s social housing plan is not for
controlling  home prices  but bridging the gap of demand that the
private market couldn’t meet,” said  Nicole Wong , a Hong Kong-
based property analyst for CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.
“Households under subsidies living in those rental homes will
accumulate equity and move up the ladder to private market
within years.”  Mixed Results  The Chinese government plans to use some of the dividends
it gets from select state-owned companies to fund the
construction of affordable housing, the 21st Century Business
Herald reported on May 5, citing an unidentified State-owned
Assets Supervision and Administration Commission official.  Affordable homes have had mixed results worldwide, from
U.S. lawmakers debating on funds to clean up decrepit public
housing, to  Singapore , where the government said 82 percent of
the resident population live in state-built apartments, with 95
percent owning their own properties.  “The social housing plan is a very big cake, but not many
developers would want to take a slice,” said Gao from RBS.
“They might be forced to eventually. Only a few are proactively
taking part for such a low margin.”  China earned 2.9 trillion yuan from land sales in 2010,
according to the  Ministry of Finance . That was 40 percent of the
local government’s revenue, according to  China Real Estate
Information Corp. (CRIC)   ‘Very Difficult’  Pan Shiyi , chairman of Soho, the biggest developer in
Beijing’s central business district, said at least half of
developers will go out of business within two to three years as
the government increases construction of affordable housing. The
increase of such housing will give the government control of
more than half of the supply of new homes on the market during
the five-year plan period from 2011 through 2015, Pan said.  Longfor Properties Co., the fourth-biggest among Chinese
developers listed in  Hong Kong , posted a loss after completing
6,000 units of affordable homes last year.  Powerlong Real Estate
Holdings Ltd. (1238)  said it’s reluctant to bid for such projects.  “It is very difficult at the moment for us to participate
in building affordable homes unless good policies are offered,
such as tax breaks,” You Xiaodi, Powerlong’s general manager of
capital management center, said in an interview.  China State Construction International Holdings Ltd. (3311) , a
state-owned Hong Kong listed builder, is seeking more of these
low-cost housing projects, including two developments in
Chongqing, Chairman Kong Qingping said in an interview.  “The rate of return in building social housing is low, but
it also has low risks,” Kong said.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Malcolm Scott  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  