-- 
China’s Yuan Convertible by 2016 in Global Poll Marking Big Investor Shift

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-12T03:43:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/china-s-yuan-convertible-by-2016-in-poll.html
Most global investors predict  China ’s
yuan will be convertible into other currencies by 2016, with 50
percent seeing it joining the dollar, yen and euro as a reserve
currency within a decade, a Bloomberg poll indicated.  Fifty-seven percent of 1,263 Bloomberg customers surveyed
who are investors, traders or analysts, including 58 percent of
Asian respondents, said it’s likely the yuan will be convertible
in five years. Nineteen percent of respondents said it will
become a reserve currency in that time, with an additional 31
percent predicting that step within a decade.  The decision would mark one of the biggest policy changes
since China embraced private enterprise three decades ago,
enabling fund managers to more freely invest in the world’s No.
2 economy. Convertibility would help unlock domestic Chinese
 savings , now at 75.6 trillion yuan ($11.6 trillion), equivalent
to more than 80 percent of U.S. gross domestic product.  “If we get to the stage that the yuan is convertible and
there’s a liquid government bond market available to invest in,
it would mean that the Chinese yuan becomes a possible viable
alternative to the dollar,” said Mansoor Mohi-uddin, chief
currency strategist at UBS AG in Singapore, the world’s third-
biggest foreign-exchange trader. “The euro hasn’t been able to
fulfill that.”  China Advantage  While the dollar’s share of global reserves fell after the
euro’s 1999 introduction, it has held above 60 percent in recent
years, International Monetary Fund data show. One advantage for
China over the euro region would be a single national government,
avoiding the disputes arising from the sovereign-debt crisis
that enveloped Greece, Ireland and  Portugal .  China is taking steps to make the yuan more accepted abroad
short of convertibility, such as setting up an offshore market
for yuan transactions in Hong Kong. It has also entered into
currency swaps with nations from  Indonesia  to  Argentina , and
denominated some overseas loans, including to  Venezuela , in yuan.
In Hong Kong,  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s biggest restaurant
chain, sold yuan-denominated bonds last year.  “Certainly we have seen huge steps pointing towards that
direction,” said Marcelo Ricaud, a fixed-income sales manager
at Standard Chartered Plc in  London  who participated in the poll,
referring to convertibility. “It is interesting to follow the
increase in volume” of the offshore yuan in  Hong Kong , he said.  Yuan Bonds  Sales of yuan-denominated bonds in Hong Kong have climbed
to 40 billion yuan so far this year, from 36 billion yuan last
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Yuan deposits in Hong Kong rose to a record 451.4 billion
yuan in March and may climb to 870 billion yuan by year-end,
Zhang Guangping, deputy director general of the China Banking
Regulatory Commission’s Shanghai branch, said last month.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy said in March that work
should start on including the yuan in the currency basket used
for the IMF’s Special Drawing Rights. At a March 31 conference
in Nanjing, European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet
said the idea is “worth discussing.”  In 2009, People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan
proposed making SDRs, the unit of account for IMF loans that’s
also held by central banks, function as a working global  reserve
currency .  Faster Than Expected  “Zhou Xiaochuan has laid out a coherent plan for having the
yuan become a major global currency, including becoming a
constituent of an expanded SDR -- convertibility is part of this
plan,” said  Tim Condon , the Singapore-based head of  Asia 
research at ING Groep NV. “The authorities have started
implementing the plan and progress has been faster than most
expected. I think that will remain the case.”  The yuan was at 6.4976 per dollar at 11:35 a.m. Shanghai
time, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The
currency reached 6.4892 on April 29, the strongest level since
1993. It isn’t allowed to move more than 0.5 percent either side
of the central bank’s daily fixing, which was 6.4948 yesterday.
The yuan has gained about 5 percent in the past year.  By contrast with investors in the poll, many economists
don’t see the yuan becoming fully convertible until 2020 or
later because making the move earlier could stoke real estate
and equity bubbles. A new generation of leaders, scheduled to
come to power starting late next year, will not want to risk
disrupting the economy, said Brian Jackson, a Hong Kong-based
strategist with the Royal Bank of  Canada .  Leadership Transition  “It’s a slow-moving process,” Jackson said. “There are a
lot of reforms, especially in the financial sector, that need to
be done. I think it could be delayed by a factor that we are
going to have a transition to a new leadership over the next
couple of years.”  Wang Tao , a Beijing-based economist and colleague of Mohi-
uddin’s at UBS, declined to predict a time-frame for yuan
convertibility. “China will have to put in place a sound
financial, macro-control and exchange-rate regulatory framework”
to enable the step, she said.  Meantime, respondents were less optimistic about Chinese
government policies helping the investment climate than in past
surveys. Fifty-one percent said they were optimistic President
Hu Jintao’s policies would help investors. That is lower by
about 10 percentage points than in three previous polls dating
back to September 2010 where that question was asked.  Asian Leaders  Still, investors had more confidence in Hu’s government
than in  India  under Prime Minister Manmohan Singh,  Singapore 
under Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, and  Japan  under Prime
Minister Naoto Kan, who tied with Sarkozy at 25 percent as the
leader whose government policies investors judged to be the
least promising.  Among Asian investors, 63 percent were optimistic about Hu
and China, with 14 percent saying the same about Kan.  China ranked as the third-best market for investors over
the next year behind the U.S. and  Brazil , with 24 percent of
respondents saying the country was among the world’s top two
investment opportunities. Even so, that figure was the lowest
among seven investor polls dating back to October 2009, though
almost even with January’s findings.  Fifty percent of poll respondents and 62 percent in Asia
predicted the MSCI Asia Pacific Index would be higher six months
from now. In a January poll, 58 percent of all respondents said
the index would be higher a half year later and in a November
poll 64 percent predicted a rise. The index is little changed
from the start of the year.  Japan’s Stocks  Forty-one percent of respondents, including 47 percent in
Asia, predicted that the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average would be
higher in six months, with 23 percent saying the index would be
lower.  Fifty-four percent of respondents, including 67 percent in
Asia, said that Japan’s economy will shrink in the year
following the March 11 earthquake and tsunami. Ten percent of
investors say Japan can escape deflation within the next year,
and 21 percent say it will take more than five years.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists on May 10 lowered their
forecasts for Japan’s gross domestic product for 2011, saying
GDP will shrink 0.2 percent this year and expand 2.6 percent in
2012. Goldman Tokyo-based analysts Naohiko Baba and Chiwoong Lee
had previously seen a 0.7 percent gain for this year and 2.3
percent growth in 2012.  Highest Since 2009  At the same time, 15 percent of respondents said Japan gave
investors the best opportunities among global markets, the
highest percentage saying that in seven polls dating to October
2009.  “The Japanese equity market is largely discounting the
reconstruction story,” said Manoj Wanzare, senior portfolio
manager at Plato Investment Management in Sydney and a
participant in the global poll that was conducted May 9-10.  Wanzare said he expects the Japanese economy to have an
“uptick in activity” within the next six to 12 months as
reconstruction spending rises.  The poll was conducted by  Des Moines , Iowa-based Selzer &
Co. for Bloomberg and has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.8
percentage points.  --Michael Forsythe,  Andrea Wong . With assistance from Zheng Lifei in Beijing and Chinmei Sung in Taipei. Editors: Chris Anstey, Peter Hirschberg  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe at   mforsythe@bloomberg.net 
Andrea Wong at   awong268@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net . 