-- 
Chubu to Start Shutting Hamaoka Reactors Tomorrow After Directive From Kan

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-05-12T09:11:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/chubu-to-start-shutting-hamaoka-reactors-tomorrow-after-directive-from-kan.html
Chubu Electric Power Co. will begin
shutting reactors at its Hamaoka nuclear plant tomorrow, after
the government asked Japan’s third-largest utility to idle them
until earthquake and tsunami defenses are improved.  The Nagoya-based company will start the process of closing
the 1,137-megawatt No. 4 unit at Hamaoka around 3 p.m. local
time tomorrow, Atsuo Sawaki, spokesman at the utility, said by
telephone today. The 1,380-megawatt No. 5 reactor will be shut
the following day, he said.  Chubu Electric this week agreed to Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s call to close the station 190 kilometers (118 miles)
southwest of Tokyo for as long as three years to take protective
measures such as building a sea wall. The move comes after an
earthquake and tsunami knocked out backup power and cooling
systems at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi station,
causing the worst nuclear disaster in 25 years.  “If Hamaoka plant is hit by an earthquake and tsunami,
idling the reactors won’t make a big difference to the extent of
damage that may be caused,” said Kazuhiko Kudo, a research
professor of nuclear engineering at Kyushu University. “The
most important thing is to take measures to prevent station
blackout and keep cooling systems working.”  Of the four reactors damaged at Fukushima, the No. 4 unit
was shut for maintenance when the March 11 tsunami triggered by
a magnitude-9 temblor cut backup power supply running the
cooling system for its spent-fuel pond. The accident raised
concerns about the safety of other nuclear plants in  Japan .  Fuel Rods  Hamaoka, Chubu Electric’s only nuclear plant, has five
reactors. Two of them are being decommissioned and one has been
idled for maintenance since November.  The utility is yet to decide whether to remove the fuel
rods from the reactors, said Akio Miyazaki, a spokesman for
Chubu Electric.  “When we shut reactors for scheduled inspections, which
normally take three to five months, we often take out the rods
and move them to the spent-fuel pools, depending on the type of
work,” Miyazaki said by telephone today. “It’s possible we may
move them to spent-fuel pools during the shutdown period.”  Chubu Electric delayed the shutdown work from today because
negotiations with  Tokyo  Electric and Kyushu Electric Power Co.
on power-supply agreements had taken longer than expected,  Kyodo
News  reported.  $370 Million  The company is completing arrangements to avoid power
shortfalls at the two other utilities, Kyodo said, citing
Akihisa Mizuno, president of Chubu Electric.  Mizuno met Trade Minister Banri Kaieda yesterday and
received assurances that Chubu Electric would be able to resume
power generation at Hamaoka once the safety measures are
implemented, Kyodo said. He also sought government support for
Chubu Electric, according to Kyodo.  The utility estimates the additional safety measures
including the building of the sea barrier will cost about 30
billion yen ($370 million). The station lies close to an active
fault line, and the government has estimated there is an 87
percent chance of an 8-magnitude earthquake in the area near the
plant within the next 30 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 