-- 
Cisco’s Chambers Ditches Sales Target Amid Strategy Change

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-05-12T20:40:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/cisco-s-chambers-ditches-sales-target-amid-strategy-retrenchment.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  Chief Executive
Officer  John Chambers  abandoned a four-year-old forecast for
annual sales growth of 12 percent to 17 percent as weak demand
and price pressure force him to cut jobs and exit businesses.  Revenue at  San Jose , California-based Cisco, the largest
maker of networking equipment, will grow no more than 2 percent
this quarter, the company said yesterday on a conference call.
Analysts on average expected 7 percent sales growth, according
to a Bloomberg survey.  Chambers addressed investors on a conference call for the
first time since beginning a retrenchment that has included
scrapping the Flip video-camera unit, firing 550 people and
overhauling a management structure that slowed decision making.
Chambers said he’ll eliminate more jobs this year and cut low-
margin businesses. While applauding his candor, analysts said
they were left in the dark about the company’s growth prospects.  “It’s great that they acknowledged the elephant in the
room,” said Joanna Makris, an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA
Inc. “We all knew 12 to 17 percent wasn’t valid. But what is it
-- 8 percent, 10 percent? It’s hard for us to know until they
tell us which product lines they’re going to exit.”  Cisco fell 85 cents, or 4.8 percent, to $16.93 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Technology Bellwether  In the fiscal fourth quarter, which ends in July, profit
excluding some costs will be 37 cents to 39 cents a share, and
sales will be $10.8 billion to $11.1 billion, Cisco said.
Analysts on average had predicted profit of 41 cents and sales
of $11.6 billion.  “We’re clearly getting hammered in the public sector, but
that’s an area where we need to realign our resources and focus
on cloud and collaboration,” Chambers said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television with Betty Liu.  Investors view Cisco as a bellwether for the technology
industry because it dominates the market for routers and
switches, which direct  Internet traffic . Companies buy its
switches for corporate networks, while phone and Web-service
providers typically purchase Cisco’s more-expensive routers.  As part of a management restructuring announced this month,
Cisco began taking apart a bureaucracy that investors and former
employees said slowed decisions, fueled market-share losses and
led to an exodus of senior executives. Cisco said it reduced the
number of councils, which were responsible for management, to
three from nine, and the number of boards that reported to them
to 15 from 42.  It also said it would eliminate $1 billion in costs in the
next fiscal year, aiming to improve profitability.  ‘Completely Committed’  “We do not underestimate the transition in front of us,”
Chambers said yesterday on the call. “We are completely
committed as a leadership team to make the required fundamental
changes to our operating model.”  Still, the changes have yet to reassure investors that
Cisco is back on track, said Bill Kreher, an analyst at Edward
Jones & Co.  “It appears that this turnaround may take a little bit
longer than previously expected,” Kreher said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television with Pimm Fox.  Cisco’s shares have declined 37 percent in the past year,
compared with a 15 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. The company struggled to maintain historic levels of
profitability amid an expansion into more than 30 side
businesses such as smart grids, home networking and digital
music hosting.  Rivals Move In  The broadened ambitions let rivals such as  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ) , Huawei Technologies Co. and  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  encroach
on key markets. In ethernet switches, Cisco’s share dropped to
67 percent last year from 69 percent in 2006, according to IDC,
a market-research firm in Framingham,  Massachusetts . In routers,
Cisco’s share dropped to 55 percent last year from 66 percent.  “Cisco took advantage of some utopian conditions in the
last decade,” said Mark Fabbi, an analyst at Gartner Inc. Now,
“companies are getting smart and forcing Cisco to earn their
business again.”  Chambers first said in August 2007 that revenue would rise
12 percent to 17 percent a year amid rising demand for Cisco’s
products. He said yesterday that the forecast is “off the
table.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  