-- 
Citigroup’s Pandit Says China’s Capital Constraints Are Fueling Inflation

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-05-12T19:37:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/citigroup-s-pandit-says-china-constraints-make-price-inflation-inevitable.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chief Executive
Officer Vikram Pandit said China’s constraints on sending
capital abroad are driving prices higher in the world’s most
populous country.  “All that money has to be invested somewhere,” Pandit,
54, said in a speech in  New York  today to the Committee of 100,
a group focused on  U.S.-China relations . “As too much money
chases too few opportunities in the domestic market, asset price
inflation is inevitable.”  Neither nation has a well-balanced economy on its own, and
the U.S. needs to step up exporting as Asia overtakes  North
America  as the world’s largest consumer bloc, Pandit said at the
Waldorf-Astoria hotel. China’s consumer market isn’t fulfilling
its potential with a savings rate of 53 percent, which could
limit that nation’s future economic growth, Pandit said.  Concern about inflation in  China  has roiled financial
markets. The central bank raised bank reserve requirements for
the fifth time this year, boosting levels for the biggest
lenders to a record 21 percent. The move came after reports
showed inflation and lending exceeded economists’ estimates in
April, with consumer prices rising more than 5 percent.  Citigroup is the third-biggest U.S. lender by assets. The
bank has operated in China since 1902 and employs 5,000 people,
Pandit said. He’s been emphasizing international growth to help
the bank rebound from the 2008 financial crisis, when the New
York-based company needed a federal bailout.  China Expansion  The bank is expanding in China as quickly as authorities
allow, according to Pandit, who became head of the bank in
December 2007.  Asia  Pacific co-CEO  Stephen Bird  last year said
that he wanted to boost employee numbers in China to 12,000 and
triple branches to 100 within three years.  The U.S. has become “a weak exporter” and can correct the
imbalance by selling more to consumers in emerging markets, he
said. China’s new five-year plan aims to rebalance its economy
with more growth from domestic demand, Pandit said.  “Officials still face some difficult decisions with no
easy answers, only trade-offs,” he said. “Making the currency
convertible would go a long way toward solving the liquidity
problem and addressing inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  