-- 
Climate Treaty Is Possible, UN Envoy Says, Rejecting U.S. View

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-05-12T19:47:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/climate-treaty-is-possible-un-envoy-says-rejecting-u-s-view.html
The  United Nations  diplomat leading
talks on a binding treaty to curb global warming today rejected
the U.S. position that the negotiations are based on unrealistic
expectations.  “What is not doable is not to address  climate change  and
not to do it in a timely fashion and at the level which it
merits and with the urgency it needs to be done,”  Christiana Figueres , the executive secretary of the UN’s Framework
Convention on Climate Change told reporters in New York.  “We certainly understand that different countries are at
different political moments, but on the whole what is not doable
is to evade the responsibility of addressing climate change as a
collection of countries, as a community of nations,” Figueres
said.  She was responding to statements last month by Todd Stern,
the State Department official who heads the U.S. negotiating
team, that the talks are based on “unrealistic” expectations
that are “not doable.” Stern said a meeting in Bangkok was
“marked by struggles over the agenda” similar to “bickering
over the shape of the negotiating table.”  His comments were the strongest criticism yet from the U.S.
of the process aimed at capping  greenhouse gases . With President
 Barack Obama  facing re-election next year and some of his
Republican opponents questioning the science underpinning the
climate talks, the government hasn’t shown willingness to set
binding targets for reducing fossil-fuel emissions.  Stern’s comments suggest rich nations and developing
nations remain too divided to make progress on establishing
worldwide limits. He said talks scheduled for December in
Durban,  South Africa , should focus on writing the rulebook for
institutions that would monitor worldwide agreements on aid and
forest protection.  ‘Pick Up Speed’  “Governments can and should pick up speed and focus on all
fronts,” Figueres said. “Work to design new climate
institutions has begun and needs to be completed by Durban.”  The meeting in Bangkok was notable, she said, for the
recognition that even if a new treaty is agreed in Durban, a
“transitional arrangement” will be needed between its
ratification and the expiration of the  Kyoto Protocol .  “They are realizing the fact is that even if they do come
to a solution in Durban, the ratification time needed for that
new agreement to come into effect is such that we will be very
likely to face a ratification gap after 2012,” she said.
“Governments are very seriously engaged in looking at this
issue. It is probably going to be the issue of most political
attention throughout this year.”  Emissions Commitments  At the UN talks in Cancun five months ago, countries agreed
to put forward national emissions commitments, share technology
for clean energy systems and establish a climate fund to help
poorer nations adapt to rising sea levels and more intense
storms.  “You don’t need a treaty to do that,” Stern said. He said
a legally binding treaty of the sort envoys sought to write in
Copenhagen two years ago is “unworkable,” and national
regulations hold the key to stanching CO2 output.  Figueres said diplomats before Durban need to settle on the
design of the fund, technology mechanisms, adaptation
commitments, and “modalities for monitoring, reporting and
verification.”  As to the larger “architectural” issues of a possible
treaty, she said countries agreed in Bangkok to put those issues
on the Durban agenda. They include “medium and long term
targets, agreement on when emissions are going to peak, and how
to put flesh on the bones of the review that needs to be done of
the adequacy of emission reductions.”  It is too soon since Bangkok to forecast what progress will
be made on those fronts this year, she said. Figueres said more
will be known after a meeting in Bonn next month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net 
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  