-- 
Coffee Wilt Eases in Uganda on Control Measures, Authority Says

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-05-12T11:36:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/coffee-wilt-eases-in-uganda-on-control-measures-authority-says.html
Coffee wilt disease is declining in
 Uganda , where it destroyed more than half of older robusta trees
in 18 years, after farmers adopted preventive and control
measures, the Uganda Coffee Development  Authority  said.  “Farmers have gained knowledge to identify, control and
prevent the spread of the disease,” the Kampala-based agency
said today in an advertisement published in the New Vision
newspaper. “Field reports show a steady decline or total
elimination of the disease in some parts of the country where
farmers adhere to good agricultural practices.”  Uganda,  Africa ’s biggest producer of robusta beans, planted
148 million new coffee trees since 1993 when it first detected
the disease to help make up for lost production, the agency
said. The disease, a fungus that predominantly affects robusta
trees, destroyed 56 percent of the 290 million trees of the
variety the nation had 18 years ago, the agency said.  The outbreak cost Uganda an estimated $500 million over the
past 10 years, according to the website of  CABI International , a
not-for-profit development organization. Output by smallholders
has halved because of the fungus, the Wallingford, England-based
group said.  Ugandan coffee production dropped to 2.7 million 60-
kilogram (132-pound) bags last season, from more than 4 million
bags in 1996-97, partly due to the effects of the disease,
according to the UCDA.  Uganda’s replanting program aims to boost production to 4.5
million bags by 2015, the UCDA has said. The country in February
approved planting of seven strains of the robusta bean that are
resistant to coffee-wilt, according to the agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at  asguazzin@bloomberg.net  