-- 
Congo Starts $600 Million Rehabilitation of Railroad Network

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-05-12T15:23:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/congo-starts-600-million-rehabilitation-of-railroad-network.html
Democratic Republic of Congo  started
a five-year, $600 million renovation of rail lines in the south-
east of the country to boost trade, lower prices and develop its
 mining industry , Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  said.  The project is being funded by the World Bank and the
government, with $200 million coming from a minerals-for-
infrastructure accord signed with China in 2009.  The rehabilitation of 700 kilometers (435 miles) of track
in the mineral-rich region will help boost the agricultural and
mining industries, encourage the development of isolated
communities and help fight poverty, Kabwelulu said in Kinshasa,
the capital. Kabwelulu is also serving as interim transport
minister.  Congo has about 4 percent of the world’s copper and a third
of its cobalt. The Central African nation, which is
approximately the size of Western Europe, will produce as much
as 1.9 million metric tons of copper in 2015, up from 300,000
tons in 2009, according to Mines Ministry projections. Most of
the country’s mineral products are currently exported via road.  The rehabilitation project comes as commodity prices hit
record highs, spurring governments and companies to pledge more
than $35 billion of investment in African railways during the
next five years.  In Congo,  China  will provide rolling stock and track for
the country’s state-owned rail company, SNCC, which is managed
by  Belgium ’s Vecturis SA.  ‘Value for Money’  The joint financing “will improve the efficiency of both
our investment and their investment and it will ensure Congo
gets the best value for its money,” the World Bank’s Africa
Transport Program Coordinator Pierre Pozzo di Borgo said today
in Kinshasa.  SNCC posted a $50 million loss last year, according to
Pozzo di Borgo. More than 4,000 employees will take retirement
as part of the restructuring, he said. The company expects to
break even again in 2013, said SNCC’s deputy director, Norbert
Lubanda Luesu.  Congo has also approached 22 mining companies about
partnering with SNCC to refurbish rail lines elsewhere in the
country or build new ones to facilitate mineral exports,
Kabwelulu said. The  World Bank  may provide risk insurance for
any private investments, Pozzo di Borgo said.  Three-Week Route  Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc., whose $2 billion Tenke
Fungurume project is the largest investment in Congo, has
already expressed interest in rehabilitating rail lines to
export its minerals. The Phoenix, Arizona-based miner currently
transports most of its minerals more than 3,500 kilometers
(2,175 miles) by road to Durban,  South Africa , which can take as
many as three weeks.  Angola ’s port of Lobito could be one future destination for
Congolese copper as soon as China’s state-owned Sinohydro Corp.
finishes restoring the 1,344-kilometer Benguela line that once
linked Congo’s Katanga province to the Atlantic coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at   mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 