-- 
Gasoline Pump Prices Hurting U.S. Consumer Comfort at Almost $4 a Gallon

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-05-12T13:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/consumer-comfort-in-the-u-s-declines-as-gasoline-prices-climb.html
Consumer confidence  fell to a six-
week low as the costliest gasoline in almost three years
worsened Americans’ perceptions of their finances.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped to minus 46.9
in the period to May 8, the worst reading since March, from the
prior week’s minus 46.2. Across regions, sentiment suffered the
most in the West, where fuel prices exceed the national average.  Households paid almost $4 a gallon at the pump last week,
the most since July 2008. While retailers like  Macy’s Inc. (M)  have
yet to be hurt by waning confidence, a bigger pickup in jobs and
lower energy expenses would help ensure  consumer spending , which
accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, will hold up.  “Consumers will likely need to observe a steady descent in
the cost of fuel before sentiment will see a sustainable
increase,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at
Bloomberg LP in  New York . Higher energy bills are a “reminder
for beleaguered consumers day to day of what has been a
difficult economic recovery.”  The number of Americans filing first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments fell less than forecast last
week, a Labor Department report today showed, indicating
recovery in the labor market is taking time to accelerate.  Applications for jobless benefits decreased 44,000 in the
week ended May 7 to 434,000. Economists forecast 430,000 claims,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The
number of people on unemployment benefit rolls rose, while those
getting extended payments decreased.  Retail Sales  Another government report today showed that retail sales
rose 0.5 percent in April, reflecting gains at service stations
and grocery stores as fuel and food costs climbed. Sales
excluding autos and gasoline increased 0.2 percent, the smallest
gain in four months.  The survey period for the Bloomberg consumer sentiment
gauge was the first to take into account May 1 news that the
U.S. killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden. The death of the
FBI’s most-wanted terrorist did little to lift sentiment last
week, the comfort report showed.  “Evidently, the damage to household bottom lines by rising
food and fuel costs, tepid wage gains and an elevated level of
unemployment has trumped the demise of America’s long-time
nemesis,” Brusuelas said.  The Bloomberg comfort gauge reflected a decrease in one of
its three components: the measure of personal finances fell to
minus 10.6 last week, the lowest since the first week of
February, from minus 6.9 the prior week.  A gauge of Americans’ views of the economy, at minus 75,
was little changed from minus 75.8 the previous week. The
buying-climate index was at minus 54.9, compared with the
previous week’s minus 56.  Decline in West  The comfort index fell for consumers in the West, matching
the levels reached in mid 2009 as the lowest in records going
back to 1990. Gasoline prices in the region averaged $4.15 a
gallon last week.  Sentiment among younger adults and home renters plunged to
the lowest this year, today’s report showed. The confidence
index for those aged between 18 and 34 fell to minus 54.5 last
week. The measure for Americans renting a home dropped to minus
63.7 from minus 59.8.  The comfort index was higher for Democrats than for
Republicans for a fourth straight week, which has happened only
once before, in 1996. The gauge for Democrats was minus 38.9, up
from minus 41.4 four weeks ago. The index for Republicans was
minus 46.8, down from minus 36.5 a month earlier.  “Confidence does tend to rise and fall in step with
presidential power,”  Gary Langer , president of Langer Research
Associates LLC in New York, which compiles the index for
Bloomberg, said in a statement.  Republicans, Democrats  Confidence among Republicans, who as a group tend to have
higher incomes, surpassed Democrats by an average 46.5 points
during the last two GOP administrations, Langer said.  Less confidence has yet to concern retailers. Macy’s, the
second-biggest U.S. department-store chain, yesterday boosted
its 2011 profit forecast after rising sales helped net income to
increase more than fivefold in the three months ended April 30,
from a year earlier. Cincinnati-based Macy’s also doubled its
quarterly dividend.  “We are off to another strong start this year and we have
every expectation it will continue,” Karen Hoguet, chief
financial officer of Macy’s, said on a conference call with
investors yesterday.  Telephone Interviews  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  