-- 
Continental to Increase U.S. Production With Illinois Expansion

-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 
2011-05-12T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/continental-to-increase-u-s-production-with-illinois-expansion.html
Continental AG (CON) , the world’s fourth-
largest tiremaker, is spending about $524 million and adding
about 1,200 jobs as it builds a new plant in the U.S. South and
expands an  Illinois  factory to meet growing demand.  About $224 million will be invested in the plant in Mount
Vernon, Illinois, to boost annual tire production capacity by 4
million by 2014. The plant in the South may cost about $300
million, said Matthias Schoenberg, chief executive officer of
Continental’s North and South American tire unit.  “Our sales growth over the years here has been so much
stronger than the growth of capacity despite all the investments
we made,” Schoenberg, who will take over as head of the
company’s fluid-technology unit in July, said in an interview.
“That’s something we hope we’ll change through this
investment.”  Tiremakers including Continental,  Goodyear Tire & Rubber
Co. (GT) ,  Bridgestone Corp. (5108)  and  Cooper Tire & Rubber Co. (CTB)  are
scrambling to keep up with demand after closing factories during
the worst U.S. recession since the Great Depression.  Continental approved the plan this month to build a tire
factory in the South, closer to vehicle production in  South
Carolina , Alabama, Georgia and Tennessee. The company expects to
choose the location before October and have it operating as
early as 2013. New plants typically employ about 750 workers,
Schoenberg said, while declining to give a specific figure for
the planned factory.  Illinois Production  Production at the Illinois factory this year will rise 8.1
percent to 12.5 million tires, said Bruce Wells, plant
production manager. The company plans to add about 444 jobs with
the expansion. Continental employs about 2,670 there now, a 30
percent increase from 2005, Wells said.  Continental sells three out of every four tires it makes to
retailers such as Discount Tire and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   The Illinois factory, Continental’s largest in the
Americas, has been running at full capacity this year, Wells
said in an interview.  Workers at the 74-acre site make 35,800 tires a day,
including 27,700 for light vehicles for customers including  Ford
Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM) , Bayerische Motoren Werke AG,
Honda Motor Co. and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  The remainder are for
commercial vehicles.  Continental, based in Hanover,  Germany , got its start in
1871 making solid tires for bicycles and carriages. Light-
vehicle tires accounted for 22 percent of the company’s 26
billion euros ($37 billion) in revenue last year. Continental’s
other products include turbochargers and devices that connect
vehicles with the Internet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  