-- 
Currency Hedge Fund Manager Taylor Says ‘Risk Rally’ Is Coming to an End

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-05-12T17:26:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/currency-hedge-fund-manager-taylor-says-risk-rally-is-coming-to-an-end.html
John Taylor , founder of the world’s
largest currency-hedge fund, said the rally in higher-yielding
assets is coming to an end with  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
resurfacing, growth sluggish and banking systems unsteady.  “This is the end of the nice slow moving risk rally that
has lulled us pleasantly to sleep since the first half of
2009,” Taylor, chairman of New York-based FX Concepts LLC, said
in an interview. “This warning is worthy of a brass band and
bright lights as the other side of this low volatility rally
will most likely be a scary descent that will have a very
negative impact on markets. Our statistical models say we are
about at the end of the road for risk.”  Higher-risk assets, such as equities, the euro and emerging
market currencies, have either peaked or will do so by end of
July, according to Taylor, who manages about $8.5 billion and
uses statistical models to help predict future movements in
assets. Global investors have tempered their optimism about the
U.S. and world economies and plan to put more of their money in
cash and less in commodities over the next six months, a
Bloomberg survey released today found.  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 index more than doubled since
March 2009 as the  Federal Reserve ’s record low interest rates
and over $2 trillion in debt purchases helped lift economic
activity and corporate profits. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies
CRB Index of commodities surged more than 50 percent during the
same period.  The  S&P 500  slid 1.1 percent since May 2 as commodities
plunged the most since 2009 amid signs the pace of  U.S. economy 
was slowing and speculation increased that  hedge funds  were
exiting bets on growth.  Currency Markets  FX Concepts, whose returns last year were the company’s
best since 2006, reaped gains in the first half of 2010 betting
on a slide in the euro against the dollar and then profited by
its rise the rest of the year. At present, the fund is short the
common currency, which means it will profit if it declines.  Taylor, who predicted several times since 2010 that the
euro will eventually fall to parity versus the dollar, boosted
returns by wagering on short term swings higher in the shared
European currency. FX Concepts, in a Jan. 27 note, said the euro
would move higher in a medium-term trend and in April predicted
the currency was poised to reach a technical target of $1.4925.  The euro touched the lowest level against the dollar in
more than six weeks, dropping to as low as $1.4124 in New York
trading. The shared currency is down about 4 percent since
reaching $1.494 on May 4.  Greece  Debt  European Central Bank officials have intensified their
opposition to a restructuring or default of Greek debt. European
finance chiefs held an unscheduled meeting in Luxembourg on May
6 and said Greece needs “a further adjustment program” on top
of its existing 110 billion-euro ($156 billion) rescue package.  Given that some analysts predict a collapse of the Greek
debt structure would be worse for the global financial system
than the September 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., investors should prepare for an “outcome of that
magnitude,” Taylor wrote in a note posted on FX Concepts’
website today.  “There is absolutely statistically no way that Greece can
survive,” said Taylor, who just returned from  France . “There
is a one in 10,000 chance; if the Germans give Greece their
money to pay back their debt then they’ll be fine. But there is
no way  Germany  will do that.”  Greek  government bonds  fell today, pushing the two-year
note yield to a record high of 26.77 percent. The bonds have
lost investors 11 percent this year.  “As the spread of Greek two-year debt goes absolutely
crazy over German, it means that at some point we are going to
have to have a crisis,” said Taylor, whose Global Currency fund
gained 3.33 percent last month. “And I think it’s very soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  