-- 
CVC’s Samsonite Said to Plan Mid-June Hong Kong Trading Debut

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-05-12T03:07:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/cvc-s-samsonite-said-to-plan-mid-june-hong-kong-trading-debut.html
Samsonite LLC, the U.S. luggage maker
backed by London-based CVC Capital Partners Ltd., may start
trading in  Hong Kong  in mid-June after a $1 billion initial
public offering, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The 101-year-old company is scheduled to attend a hearing
today at the Hong Kong stock exchange to present its IPO plan,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the
process is confidential.  Coach Inc. and Prada SpA are among foreign consumer-goods
makers planning listings in Hong Kong, an IPO hub for Chinese
companies and a popular luxury shopping destination for China’s
swelling class of affluent people. Beauty products maker
 L’Occitane International SA (973)  has jumped 28 percent since its IPO
in Hong Kong a year ago.  Coach, the biggest U.S. maker of luxury handbags, plans a
secondary listing in Hong Kong by selling depositary receipts by
the end of the year, Chairman Lew Frankfort said in a statement
on May 10. A dual listing in Hong Kong “will raise awareness of
the Coach brand among investors and consumers in the China
market,” he said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  are managing the Samsonite
sale, according to the people. Helen Mak, a Hong Kong-based
spokeswoman for Samsonite, didn’t immediately respond to phone
calls seeking comment.  First Brand  Prada filed an application to the Chinese city’s bourse for
an IPO by July, people familiar with the matter said on March 31.  Samsonite was bought by CVC, a private equity firm, for
about $1.7 billion in October 2007. Its U.S. retail division,
Samsonite Co. Stores, in 2009 sought  bankruptcy protection  from
creditors after the financial crisis caused a slump in demand
for travel-related products.  Samsonite started as Shwayder Trunk Manufacturing in Denver
in 1910, with Samson as its first brand. The first Samsonite-
brand suitcase was introduced 29 years later, according to
Hoover’s, Inc.  L’Occitane declined 0.1 percent to HK$19.36 in Hong Kong
trading as of 10:51 a.m. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  slid 1
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  