-- 
Cyber Security May Gain in Pentagon’s Budget Review, Lynn Says

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-05-12T20:04:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/cyber-security-may-gain-in-pentagon-s-budget-review-lynn-says.html
Spending on  cyber security  may be one
of the few areas to gain as the Pentagon prepares to meet
President Barack Obama’s goal of cutting $400 billion in defense
spending over the next 12 years, said William Lynn, the U.S.
deputy secretary of defense.  Cyber threats are “likely to ratchet up and get worse,”
Lynn said in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New
York . Attackers of U.S. networks today usually seek to steal
data or temporarily block access through so-called denial of
service techniques, he said. In the future, he said, assaults
may become more destructive as sophisticated tools get into the
hands of “malicious actors.”  The Defense Department has proposed spending $38.4 billion
on  information technology  in fiscal year 2012, which begins Oct.
1. About $3.2 billion of the total would be dedicated to cyber
security, according to a data compiled by Bloomberg. The amount
may not cover for all cyber security spending because it is
spread across the different military services and doesn’t
include classified programs.  U.S. defense officials are conducting a comprehensive
review of the military including its missions, the size of the
forces and which new weapons are needed. The Obama
administration’s goal is to cut $400 billion by 2023 in addition
to the $78 billion, five-year reduction that Defense Secretary
 Robert Gates  announced in January.  The review team won’t propose “across-the-board cuts,”
Lynn said. “Some things are going to be eliminated, some things
are going to be reduced and some things are going to be
increased,” he said. “I think cyber is one of the ones that we
are going to more likely increase than decrease.”  Full Spectrum  The U.S. is spending sufficiently on both defensive and
offensive cyber capabilities, Lynn said. “In the last budget,
we have already put additional funding into several areas of
cyber and we’ll continue to do that.”  The U.S. also is working with allies such as  Australia , the
U.K., and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization on systems to
spread the word quickly when cyber attacks are detected.  “This is one of those areas where the earlier you see a
threat the better you can react,” Lynn said. If allies see
“things on their networks and we can anticipate them, that
gives us far more agility and vice versa.”  The Pentagon’s cyber initiatives, dubbed Cyber 3.0, are
developing more robust defenses against all categories of
threats. The military’s investment in building such tools may
improve the “balance between defenders of the network and the
attackers,” which now favors attackers, Lynn said. That would
also “make the Internet more secure for everybody,” he said.
“That would be a huge commercial boon.”  Prepared for Cyber  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s largest defense company,
 Boeing Co. (BA) , the second largest, and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ,
maker of Global Hawk, one of the largest drones, all have
acquired cyber security companies to strengthen their
portfolios.  Chicago-based Boeing sees annual sales growth exceeding 10
percent in cyber-security, the focus of about half of Boeing’s
recent purchases, Dennis Muilenburg, the head of its defense
unit, said in December.  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , the  Falls Church , Virginia-based
maker of Abrams tanks, operates the Pentagon’s Defense Cyber
Crime Center, which conducts forensic analysis of cyber attacks.
The company has been called upon by the federal government to
assist in probes of commercial data thefts.  ‘Everything on the Table’  Lynn said the Pentagon’s review to meet Obama’s budget goal
would put “everything on the table” including reducing the
number of troops and restraining spending on new weapons -- the
part of the budget that matters most to defense suppliers
including Lockheed Martin and Boeing.  The review will inform current congressional discussions
about raising the debt ceiling. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said lawmakers must raise the $14.3 trillion debt
ceiling before Aug. 2 or risk a default.  The review also may guide how the military services craft
their new five-year budget plans, which are compiled in August
and September.  The 2013  defense budget  is due to Congress in February 2012
and, if confirmed, will be presented by Leon Panetta, who’s
nominated to be the next defense secretary when Gates leaves in
June.  Lynn said he expected a “seamless handoff” between Gates
and Panetta, currently the director of the CIA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  