-- 
Czech Coalition Tensions Flare as Cabinet Aims to Cut Budget

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-05-12T15:51:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/czech-coalition-tensions-flare-as-cabinet-aims-to-cut-budget-1-.html
Czech government tensions flared
again less than a month after the ruling coalition averted a
breakup as party leaders bickered over personnel issues and an
agenda that includes reducing the  budget deficit .  Radek John, the leader of the smallest coalition party
Public Affairs, resigned yesterday as deputy prime minister
after a clash with Prime Minister Petr Necas. John accused Necas
of interfering with his right to select members of his team,
criticized what he said was insufficient communication about
government measures and demanded more Cabinet changes.  “The current Cabinet can’t, without changes, credibly
represent and push through reforms and explain their importance
to the public,” John said, announcing his resignation. “I
entirely reject the prime minister’s interference into my
personnel selections.” His party will stay in the coalition and
the move doesn’t affect the government’s majority in parliament.  The resignation came three weeks after the three ruling
parties agreed on a  government  shuffle, in which John switched
from being interior minister to deputy prime minister for
fighting corruption. The parties, which pledged to cut the
fiscal deficit, have repeatedly butted heads over personnel
issues and the Cabinet’s agenda, including a pension overhaul.  Deficit Pledge  The government’s pledge to trim the fiscal gap below the
European Union’s limit of 3 percent of economic output by 2013
has helped the koruna gain 6.5 percent against the euro since
May 2010 elections. The koruna was at 24.324 to the euro as of
5:49 p.m. in  Prague , little changed from the previous day.  Leaders of the ruling parties agreed late yesterday to hold
meetings every week. The agenda of next week’s meeting will
include the pension changes and a revamp of health care, he
said. None of the party leaders commented on the meeting.  Public Affairs will decide whether to leave the government
“based on the Cabinet’s work by June,” news server Idnes.cz
quoted John as saying today. The party would support a minority
government made up of its current two partners, the  Civic
Democratic Party  and the TOP09 party, if it left the coalition,
he told Idnes.cz in an interview.  The  Czech Republic  had two minority governments and two
interim Cabinets in the past 12 years, stalling budget measures.
The latest government breakup was the fall of Prime Minister
Mirek Topolanek’s administration, which lost a no-confidence
vote last year, halfway into the country’s term holding the
European Union’s rotating presidency in 2009.  Cabinet Shuffle  By agreeing to the shuffle last month, the coalition
averted a breakup as the government drafts legislative changes
for a revamp of the deficit-widening pension system, planned
from the start of 2013.  Public Affairs refused until the last moment to pledge
support for the government ahead of a no-confidence motion in
parliament in December. It also backed out of a preliminary deal
on the overhaul of the pension system in March and forced
through last-minute changes to the plan.  Public Affairs last month expelled three deputies from its
parliamentary caucus after a row over party financing, reducing
the government’s majority to 115 votes in the 200-seat lower
house.  The Czechs are the last of the four largest post-communist
economies in the European Union preparing to boost private
savings for retirement as the government expects an aging
population to reduce the number of workers paying for pensions.  The country’s debt rating of A may be raised if the
government follows through on pledges to reduce spending and
revamp the pension system,  Standard & Poor’s  has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  