-- 
Dana Awaits $300 Million Kurdish, Egypt Payments as Profit Beats Estimates

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-05-12T09:46:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/dana-gas-first-quarter-profit-surges-as-oil-output-climbs-tops-estimates.html
Dana Gas PJSC (DANA)  is owed about $300
million for oil and natural gas that it pumped in Egypt and in
the semi-autonomous Kurdish region of  Iraq .  “We have not yet been paid” by Iraq’s Kurdish
authorities, who owe the fuel producer about $150 million, Chief
Executive Officer Ahmed Al-Arbeed said in an interview. “We
don’t know how much they will transfer, but we are waiting to
hear,” he said today after Dana Gas announced a near tripling
in its first-quarter profit on increased output.  The company, based in Sharjah in the  United Arab Emirates ,
is also owed about $148 million from its Egyptian operations, a
spokesman said by telephone. Dana Gas faces challenges in
collecting the cash in  Egypt , though it has no plans to quit the
country, the spokesman said, declining to be identified due to
company policy.  Iraq’s Kurdish regional authorities said last week they can
start paying foreign  oil companies  after they received
confirmation from the central government in  Baghdad  of a partial
reimbursement for crude exports. The Kurdistan Regional
Government received a notice from the Ministry of Finance
confirming the release of the first oil-export payments, Barham Salih, the regional prime minister, said on May 5.  Dana Gas’s reported that its net income advanced to 92
million dirhams ($25 million) from 33 million dirhams a year
earlier, the company said. The average estimate of four analysts
was for a profit of 56.3 million dirhams, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Higher Prices  The company benefitted from higher  oil prices , which gained
20 percent in the first quarter to an average of $94.60 a barrel
from $78.88 a barrel a year ago. Dana Gas is developing oil and
gas deposits, production and transport facilities in Egypt, the
Kurdish region of northern Iraq and the U.A.E.  Oil and gas production rose by a third to 6 million barrels
of oil equivalent from 4.5 million in the same period a year
earlier. Revenue rose to 616 million dirhams from 411 million
dirhams because of greater production from Kurdish Iraq and
higher crude prices.  Output from the Kurdish operations almost doubled to 19,500
barrels of oil equivalent a day, al-Arbeed said. Dana Gas is
waiting for  Syria  to evaluate a bidding round and is also
looking at opportunities in Algeria and Yemen, he said.  In Egypt, the company drilled an unsuccessful well in the
FSalem formation and discovered natural gas in its West El
Manzala concession.  Profit excludes an unrealized gain of 326 million dirhams
for an investment in Hungarian energy company Mol Nyrt.  Dana Gas’s shares fell 11 percent in the first quarter,
compared with a 4.2 percent drop in the Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General
Index. (ADSMI)  The stock gained as much as 2.9 percent today and was
unchanged at 68 fils at 1:39 p.m. local time, giving the company
a market capitalization of 4.5 billion dirhams. One dirham
equals 100 fils.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net  