-- 
Demjanjuk Convicted of Helping Nazis to Murder Jews During the Holocaust

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-05-12T15:15:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/demjanjuk-convicted-of-helping-nazis-to-murder-jews-during-the-holocaust.html
John Demjanjuk , a 91-year-old retired
autoworker, was convicted and sentenced to five years in prison
for aiding the Nazis in the murder of at least 28,000 Jews at
the Sobibor death camp during World War II. He was released
pending an appeal.  The Munich Regional Court found Demjanjuk guilty today
after an almost 18-month trial. The former U.S. citizen was
deported to Germany in 2009 and accused of being a guard who
helped herd Jews to the gas chambers at the camp in German-
occupied  Poland  during 1943. Demjanjuk has denied the claims and
his lawyers said after the verdict that they will appeal.  Today’s ruling closes what may be  Germany ’s last major
Holocaust trial. The Nazis killed an estimated 6 million Jews in
death camps throughout  Europe  during the war. The nation lifted
its statute of limitation for murder in 1979, to allow
prosecution of Nazi criminals to continue.  The judges are convinced Demjanjuk was a Russian prisoner
of war in 1942 and was trained as a guard at a camp in Trawniki,
Poland, Ralph Alt, the presiding judge, said when delivering the
court’s reasoning. Demjanjuk was transferred to Sobibor in 1943
where he helped kill Jews as one of the so-called “Trawniki
men,” as they were known, according to the judge.  “Every Trawniki man knew that he was part of a well and
smoothly operating apparatus that had no other goal than
systematically murdering Jews,” Alt said. “They all knew about
the barbaric treatment of Jews. And the accused was part of that
extermination machinery.”  Released  The court ordered Demjanjuk released from detention, saying
there is no reason to keep him until his prison term can begin.
Demjanjuk was held from May 2009 until today to ensure he would
attend the trial and, since he has no citizenship, there is no
risk he will now flee, Alt said. Keeping him confined would be
disproportionate, he said. The sentence can only begin once any
appeal in the case is rejected.  “It doesn’t seem likely that Demjanjuk will actually serve
any more time in the end,” Alt told reporters after the
hearing. “The appeal will take at least a year and at that time
his health may not allow putting him in prison.”  Demjanjuk’s release isn’t right, said Efraim Zuroff,  Israel 
Director of the  Simon Wiesenthal Center . “We don’t think that
is appropriate given the severity of his crimes and is frankly,
an insult to his victims,” he said.  Prosecutor Hans-Joachim Lutz said he may appeal the
decision to release Demjanjuk from detention. Prosecutors had
sought a six-year sentence rather than the maximum 15 years.  ID Card, Memo  The court followed the prosecution’s argument that various
documents, including an ID card, staff lists and a memo about a
disciplinary penalty dating from January 1943, showed that
Demjanjuk served as a Trawniki man and was at Sobibor. It’s
unlikely all of the documents were forged, Alt said.  Demjanjuk’s conviction shows the Holocaust couldn’t have
taken place without participation from Europeans on many levels
who had criminal roles, Avner Shalev, chairman of Holocaust
remembrance authority Yad Vashem, said in an e-mailed statement.  “While no trial can bring back those that were murdered,
holding those responsible to justice has an important moral and
educational role,” Shalev said.  Demjanjuk could have fled Sobibor and thus avoided taking
part in the crimes, Alt said, citing other Trawniki men who
fled. While such a move was very risky, Demjanjuk was obliged to
take that risk, given the gravity of the atrocities, Alt said.  Appeal Planned  “Of course we will appeal the verdict,” defense attorney
Ulrich Busch said. “This court has not shown one inch of
evidence that would prove the personal guilt of my client.”  Demjanjuk, a native of Ukraine, later lived near  Cleveland 
until he was stripped of U.S. citizenship and extradited to
Israel in 1986. He was convicted and sentenced to death there on
charges he was “Ivan the Terrible,” the guard who tortured
Jews while herding them into the Treblinka concentration camp
gas chambers. Israel’s top court overturned the sentence in
1993, saying there was reasonable doubt he served at Treblinka.  Demjanjuk returned to the U.S., regaining his citizenship.
In 2002, it was revoked again over his alleged role at Sobibor.  When determining his sentence, the Munich court took into
account the length of time since the crime took place and the
jail time Demjanjuk already served in Israel. The fact that he
may not return to his family because he lost his U.S.
citizenship was also taken into account, Alt said.  “My father has suffered as a result of German brutality
for nearly 70 years,” Demjanjuk’s son John said in an e-mailed
statement. “The Germans arrogantly lay blame on a Ukrainian
prisoner of war in an attempt to atone,” for their own crimes.  The trial began in November 2009 and has attracted
worldwide media attention. Hearings were limited to two sessions
of 90 minutes a day because Demjanjuk suffers from an incurable
bone-marrow disease and back pain.  He followed the hearings on a hospital bed, usually wearing
a blue baseball cap and sunglasses. When delivering the verdict,
the judges made him face them sitting in a wheel chair.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 