-- 
Democrats Embrace U.S. Tax Increase Versus Medicare Cut in Debt Talks

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-05-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/democrats-embrace-tax-increase-versus-medicare-cut-in-debt-talks.html
Democrats in Congress are gaining new
confidence in promoting tax increases to reduce the national
debt by presenting them as the alternative to Republicans’
proposed cuts in Medicare health-care coverage for the elderly.  Democratic leaders are avoiding any call for tax increases
on the middle class, a key voting bloc, and limiting their
proposals to those that would affect wealthy individuals, oil
and gas companies, and businesses accused of sending jobs
overseas.  Still, the posture is a shift for Democrats, who avoided
voting before last year’s election on the party’s proposal to
roll back the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts for families earning more
than $250,000 a year, at the behest of lawmakers on the ballot.  The difference now is that party leaders see an opening in
a Republican budget plan that would cut the deficit in part by
privatizing Medicare, an option polls show is unpopular.  “The differences are developing, and it’s one that we
think we’re on the side of the American people,” Senator
 Charles Schumer , his chamber’s third-ranking Democrat, said at
the Bloomberg Breakfast in Washington yesterday. Schumer, a top
party political strategist and former chief of the Democrats’
Senate campaign arm, said the public would prefer increasing
taxes to “destroying Medicare. And we’ll take that fight, and
that’s how it’s beginning to shape up.”  Democrats, Schumer said, “have a broad consensus on
revenues, and we feel the American people are with us on that.
Eighty-seven percent say don’t do further tax cuts for the
wealthy, get rid of the loopholes and things, you know, for the
high-end common corporations, and we think it’s high ground.”  Off the Table  Republicans have ruled out tax increases in bipartisan
debt-reduction talks, while Democrats are resisting major
changes to Medicare and have pronounced Social Security
revisions off the table.  Ed Gillespie , a former chairman of the  Republican National
Committee , said that while Democrats are searching for
“politically palatable” tax increases, the Republican focus on
spending cuts will work in his party’s favor at election time.  “If you juxtapose tax increases or spending reductions,
most voters think that spending reductions are the way to go,”
he said. “I’ve never seen an environment where there is greater
risk politically to being seen as unwilling to cut spending.”  Polls indicate that given a choice between spending cuts
and tax increases to tackle the debt, the public favors spending
reductions. In a Gallup  survey  released April 29, 48 percent
said Congress should reduce the deficit only or mostly through
cuts, while 11 percent said it should be only or mostly through
tax increases. Thirty-seven percent supported doing so through a
combination of spending reductions and tax hikes.  Taxes on High Earners  Still, most surveys also indicate Democrats have a chance
to frame the debate their way. A  Quinnipiac University poll 
released May 4 found that 69 percent of voters back raising
taxes on households earning $250,000 or more, with 28 percent
opposed.  Almost as many, 60 percent, said Medicare should remain as
it is, rather than giving senior citizens money to buy private
health insurance starting in 2022, as Republican Representative
 Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin, the House Budget Committee chairman,
proposed in a budget approved by the House last month.  Those numbers are roughly in line with a March Bloomberg
National Poll, which found respondents backing tax increases on
the wealthy by 59 percent to 37 percent, and overwhelmingly
opposing Medicare cuts by 76 percent against to 22 percent for.  Oil Companies  With numbers like that in mind, Senate Democrats this week
are pushing legislation that would repeal about $21 billion in
tax breaks in the next decade for  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  of Irving,
Texas,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of  San Ramon ,  California ,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  of
Houston,  BP Plc (BP)  of  London  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  of The Hague
and use the money to reduce the deficit.  The measure is one of many Democrats say should be on the
table in bipartisan negotiations over a debt-reduction package
that leaders of both parties and President  Barack Obama  say is
needed to secure an increase in the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling.
Congress must vote by Aug. 2 to increase the limit, Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  has said, or the nation may default
on its obligations.  Democrats have been wary of political damage from raising
taxes since Walter Mondale’s failed 1984 presidential bid, in
which he promised to cut the deficit in part through higher
taxes.  Former Representative Martin Frost of  Texas , a past leader
of the Democrats’ House campaign arm, said the party also bears
scars from having pushed through a 1993 deficit reduction plan,
with no Republican votes, that contained tax increases and
spending cuts. Democrats lost their 40-year grip on the House
the following year, although he said the tax increases were only
part of the reason.  ‘Somewhat Gun-Shy’  “Democrats have been somewhat gun-shy of that issue ever
since, but I don’t think that has to be the case right now,
because the problems facing the country are of such a great
nature that we have to find some sort of a solution,” Frost
said.  Jim Bonham, a lobbyist and former executive director of the
Democrats’ House campaign committee, said public opposition to
Medicare changes has given Democrats an opening to win back the
seniors who abandoned them in the 2010 elections and appeal to
independent voters. While tax increases on their own might not
be a political winner, he said, tax increases as a contrast with
cutting Medicare can be.  “What I think most independents are looking for is the
grownups in the room, and the grownups in the room realize you
can’t balance the budget by only cutting programs, so you have
to look at the revenue side,” Bonham said. “That’s where I
think this does start to become a winning issue for Democrats.”  65 and Older  Among voters age 65 and older, support for Democratic House
candidates dropped to 38 percent in 2010 from 49 percent in
2006, according to  exit polls . In the months before the 2010
congressional elections, Republicans charged that Obama’s
health-care law weakened Medicare benefits.  When Obama won the presidency in 2008, he was backed by 45
percent of voters in that age range, while 53 percent favored
Republican Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona .  Republicans say voters clamoring for action to control the
debt will reward the push for major Medicare changes, even if
unsuccessful, and punish Democrats for refusing to agree.  “I think the mistake they’re making is that the country
wants to see a big deal, wants to see leadership,”
Representative Tom Cole of  Oklahoma , a Republican who formerly
led his party’s House campaign arm, said in a May 6 interview.  ‘Hurt the President’  “It will hurt the president,” Cole said. The way to beat
Obama, he said, is by saying, “‘I’m willing to do what this
person won’t do, and yes, that might not be popular, but we all
know it’s necessary.’”  While  Standard & Poor’s  shifted its long-term outlook on
the U.S. government’s AAA credit rating from stable to negative
on concerns that policy makers would not take action to reduce
long-term budget deficits, bond markets have not exhibited
concern over the national debt level. Yields on 10-year Treasury
notes have declined to 3.16 percent at 12:34 p.m. today in  Tokyo 
from 3.37 percent on April 18, the day of the S&P announcement,
according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  