-- 
Desperate Americans Buy Kidneys From Peru Poor in Fatal Trade

-- B y   M i c h a e l   S m i t h
-- 
2011-05-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/desperate-americans-buy-kidneys-from-peru-poor-in-fatal-trade.html
Luis Picado’s mother remembers the
day her son thought he had won the lottery. He came home to
their tin-roofed cinder-block house in a Managua,  Nicaragua ,
slum and said he’d found a way to escape poverty and start a new
life in the  United States .  An American man had promised to give Picado, a 23-year-old
high school dropout who worked as a construction laborer, a job
and an apartment in  New York  if he’d donate one of his kidneys.
He jumped at the deal, his mother says.  Three weeks later, in May 2009, Picado came out of surgery
at Managua’s Military Hospital, bleeding internally from the
artery doctors had severed to remove his kidney, according to
medical records. His mother, Elizabeth Tercero, got on her knees
next to her son’s bed in the recovery room and prayed, Bloomberg
Markets magazine reports in its June issue.  “I told my boy not to worry, that I would take care of
him,” Tercero, 49, says. “But it was too late.” Picado bled
to death as doctors tried to save him, according to a coroner’s
report. “He was always chasing the American dream, and finally,
it cost him his life,” she says.  Matthew Ryan, the American man, suffered a similar fate.
Ryan, a 68-year-old retired bus company supervisor in New York,
died two months after receiving Picado’s kidney in the same
hospital.  Nicaraguan postmortem reports cited the transplant as a
cause of death for both men. Prosecutors in Managua are now
investigating whether anyone broke a Nicaraguan law that
prohibits paying a donor for an organ.  Illicit Market  The two men were participants in a growing and illicit
market for organ transplants that spans the globe. Every year,
about 5,000 gravely ill people from countries including the
U.S.,  Israel  and Saudi Arabia pay others to donate an organ,
says  Francis Delmonico , a  Harvard Medical School  professor and
surgeon. The practice is illegal in every country except  Iran ,
Delmonico says.  Affluent, often desperately ill patients travel to
countries such as Egypt,  Peru  and the  Philippines , where poor
people sell them their  organs . In  Latin America , the transplants
are usually arranged by unlicensed brokers. They’re performed --
for fees -- by accredited surgeons, some of whom have trained at
the world’s leading medical schools.  The global demand for organs far exceeds the available
supply. In the U.S., 110,693 people are on  waiting lists  for
organs, and fewer than 15,000 donors are found annually.  Americans who go abroad for illicit transplants can
contract infections or HIV from unhealthy donors, posing a
public health threat when they return, Delmonico says.  ‘Exploit the Patient’  “With all the anxiety in getting a transplant, they
exploit the patient,” says Delmonico, who is president-elect of
the Montreal-based  Transplantation Society , which lobbies
governments to crack down on trafficking. “It’s big money.”  The illegal organ trade is the ugly side of the otherwise
legal  medical tourism  industry, in which people travel to other
countries for cut-rate hip replacements, tummy tucks and gastric
bypasses. The legitimate medical procedures generated about $100
billion in revenue in 2010, according to a report by Deloitte
Touche Tohmatsu Ltd.  For decades, wealthy Brazilians, Mexicans and Saudis have
gone to U.S. and European hospitals for medical care they
couldn’t get at home. In the past decade, that pattern has
changed. Hospitals from Puerto Vallarta,  Mexico , to  Medellin ,
 Colombia , now lure middle-class Americans with promises of high-
quality care at a fraction of what it would cost them at home.  Medical tourism company  MedToGo LLC , based in Tempe,
 Arizona , says it will offer kidney transplants in Mexico and
 Costa Rica  for about $50,000, a fifth of the cost in the U.S.  Preying on the Poor  In the illegal organ trade, brokers scour the world’s
slums, preying on the poor with promises of easy money and
little risk in exchange for a kidney. Inside hospitals, people
are injured or killed by botched surgery as doctors place money
above ethics, criminal investigators say.  In Colombia, 321 foreigners got transplants from 2005 to
2010, according to the country’s  National Health Institute . Juan
Lopez, a doctor who oversees Colombia’s organ transplant system
as director of the NHI, says many of these surgeries are driven
by profit for hospitals, doctors and brokers.  “I don’t want my country to be a Mecca for transplant
tourism,” Lopez says. He’s gone to court to try to stop 23
organ transplants for foreigners since 2010, he says.  In Peru, Rafael Peraldo, a  taxi driver  who’s under
investigation for being an organ broker, has plied Lima’s dusty
slums since at least 2005, according to five people who say in
interviews that they sold kidneys to him.  ‘Spare-Parts Bank’  Peraldo paid as little as $5,000, the five people say.  Patients who bought these organs paid as much as $150,000,
prosecutors have found.  “The poor have become a spare-parts bank for the well-to-
do,” says University of  California , Berkeley, anthropologist
 Nancy Scheper-Hughes , who specializes in organ trafficking.  The Peruvian National Prosecutor’s Office is investigating
61 transplants in seven of Lima’s top hospitals since 2004,
documents in the case show. Peraldo is one of 150 brokers,
doctors, nurses and others under investigation, says Jesus
Asencios, the prosecutor leading the probe.  Peraldo says in a telephone interview that he’s done
nothing wrong; he says he won’t say more until the investigation
is completed.  Because people with  kidney failure  are always in poor
health, a transplant is never a guaranteed cure. Still, legal
transplants have a high probability of success. More than 75
percent of the recipients of kidney transplants in the U.S. live
for more than 10 years, according to the  National Institutes of
Health .  Perils Abound  Donors usually do fine; they can live a  normal life span 
with just one of their two kidneys. In the illicit trade, by
contrast, perils abound for all participants.  Organs removed by surgeons in Peru from 2004 to 2010 went
to ill men and women from the U.S., Chile, Mexico, Spain and
Venezuela, according to hospital records and prosecutors’
interviews with donors and doctors.  One of those patients was Oscar Soberon, the wealthy
founder of a Mexico City computer systems company. After about a
year of enduring  dialysis  sessions to survive kidney failure,
Soberon negotiated a transplant at a Lima hospital with Peruvian
doctor Christian Miranda, for $125,000, Soberon told prosecutors
before he died.  On Nov. 1, 2009, doctors transplanted a kidney from a baker
into Soberon. Eleven weeks after surgery, Soberon was dead, his
body ravaged by infection, his medical records show.  Waiting Lists  The  kidney  is a fist-sized organ that continuously filters
blood to clear waste from the body. Toxins are flushed into the
bladder, which removes them. When a kidney fails, doctors use a
machine system called dialysis to circulate and clean blood. A
patient with kidney failure will die quickly without dialysis or
a transplant.  In legal transplants, a kidney patient typically turns to
relatives willing to donate one of their kidneys, or goes onto a
waiting list if no one volunteers. A hospital screens potential
donors, reviewing their health records, blood type and body
tissue to ensure they’re medically compatible.  The illicit organ trade is dangerous for the donor and
patient because criminals take shortcuts, such as accepting
organs from people who are sick and wouldn’t be approved by
hospitals in the U.S., says  Gabriel Danovitch , medical director
of the kidney and pancreas transplant program at the  University
of California , Los Angeles.  “It’s a filthy business in the same subcategory as the sex
trade and child pornography,” Danovitch says. “That is why it
has to be stopped.”  How it Started  It’s hard to stop critically ill people who are in a race
against death from seeking solutions outside the official
transplant system, especially if they have the money and
connections to do something about it.  Ryan, the retired New York bus line supervisor, used his
son-in-law in  Managua  to set up a deal for a kidney, says
Picado’s boss, who overheard the offer. The chain of events that
brought Ryan together with the 23-year-old Picado began in 2009.  Ryan, known by relatives as a quiet, levelheaded man who
rarely got angry, had been living a grueling existence since his
kidneys failed in 2007. He lived in Cedarhurst, New York, near
 John F. Kennedy International Airport , with his wife, Lily
Molina, an immigrant from Nicaragua, and underwent four-hour
dialysis sessions three times a week.  Welts covered his arms, where medical workers inserted
tubes into his veins. Like many kidney patients, Ryan was
seeking a transplant.  “He was on a waiting list but was suffering a lot,” says
Molina, 53, who first met Ryan when she worked at a  Wendy’s (WEN) 
restaurant in 2001. They married in 2005.  Nicaraguan Vacation  In March 2009, Ryan traveled to Nicaragua for vacation. He
stayed with his stepdaughter, Julissa Molina, and her husband,
Elvis Hernandez, in their two-bedroom home near Managua’s
 Augusto C. Sandino International Airport .  The house was being remodeled by Picado and his boss, Erick
Bermudez, who remembers how the subject of transplants came up.  “Elvis said Ryan’s kidneys were bad and he needed a
transplant,” says Bermudez, sitting in the windowless, dirt-
floored room he rents in Managua.  Two months later, in May 2009, Ryan offered Picado a deal,
says Bermudez. He says he heard the entire conversation as he
stood a few feet away. Using his stepson as an interpreter, Ryan
said he would arrange for a coyote, or human smuggler, to
transport Picado illegally to New York if he donated a kidney,
Bermudez says.  The Deal  Picado went over the details of the offer several times, he
says.  “Luis said they would give him a $5,000 gift for his
kidney,” Bermudez says. “They told him everything he wanted to
hear.”  For years, Picado, who had a round face and thick, curly
black hair, had talked about going to the U.S. to escape the
poverty that plagued just about everyone he knew, says his
mother, Elizabeth Tercero.  “Luis said the gringo would take him to New York and he’d
never have to worry about anything else,” Tercero says. “I
begged him not to do it. It could be dangerous. But he wouldn’t
listen.”  ‘Not a Cent’  Hernandez says there wasn’t any promise of compensation for
Picado.  “Luis did it altruistically,” he says. “Maybe Matthew
said he would try to help him out, but there was no offer of any
money.”  Ryan’s widow, Lily Molina, says her husband told her Picado
had donated voluntarily and he never gave him any cash.  “Not a cent,” Molina says.  While in Managua, Ryan had dialysis sessions at Vivian
 Pellas Metropolitan Hospital , under the care of kidney disease
specialist Jose Tenorio. A few days after he started dialysis,
in early March 2009, Ryan asked the doctor for a transplant and
introduced two men who said they were willing to donate a
kidney, according to Tenorio’s July 29, 2009, statement to
investigators.  Doctor Said No  Tenorio, who trained in nephrology at Lapeyronie Hospital
in Montpellier,  France , told Ryan he recommended against a
transplant because of his age, according to his statement to
police. Ryan asked for a second opinion, so Tenorio asked fellow
nephrologist Orlando Granera, who was educated at National
 Autonomous University  of Mexico, to look at Ryan.  Specialists like Tenorio and Granera earn about $500 a
month at a public hospital in Nicaragua. Ryan had agreed to pay
$20,000 in fees to the medical team for the transplant,
Hernandez says. The two doctors declined to say how much they
stood to earn. Both told police they weren’t paid anything after
Ryan died.  Granera, 37, arranged to do the transplant at Military
Hospital, which consists of a pair of long, mildew-stained
buildings with cracked windows on a Managua hillside. Granera
told police he asked Picado to sign a notarized statement saying
he was volunteering his kidney at no cost.  “I clarify that I am doing it for humanity and without any
profit,” the May 23, 2009, statement says.  Granera, in an interview at his office at  Metropolitan
Hospital , says he wouldn’t have taken the case had he known
Picado was offered money.  ‘Strictly Friendship’  “They said it was strictly based on their friendship,” he
says. Tenorio says he hasn’t done anything wrong and has spent
his career following the highest ethical standards. “I don’t
know anything about any compensation,” he says.  Luis Callejas, a Nicaraguan congressman and a surgeon
trained at  Tulane University  in New Orleans, doesn’t believe
Picado agreed to donate an organ for free.  “An American doesn’t meet a stranger in Nicaragua and get
an organ just because they like each other,” says Callejas, who
supports a proposal to regulate transplants.  The Picado case led the  Nicaraguan Ministry of Health  to
start writing tougher rules on transplants, and Congress will
decide whether to approve them. It’s illegal in Nicaragua to
sell an organ, but the law is vague and bans transplants only if
there’s no proof of the donor’s consent, says Norwin Solano, a
human rights lawyer in Managua.  Different Laws  Brazil , Colombia,  Ecuador  and Peru have passed laws
restricting or banning organ donations by people who aren’t
related to the patient.  Since Nicaragua permits organ transplants for foreigners,
Picado and Ryan were wheeled openly into operating room J-5 at
the end of a red-tiled corridor in the Military Hospital on May
30, 2009. Granera, who isn’t a surgeon, chose Javier Melendez --
a surgeon who had done 10 previous kidney transplants and had
trained in urology at National Autonomous University -- to
remove Picado’s kidney.  Melendez, 37, told police he severed the left renal artery,
which leads from the kidney to the heart, and stitched it shut
with silk sutures. Then he severed the ureter, which connects
the kidney to the bladder, and removed the organ, the doctor
told police on July 24, 2009.  Melendez handed the kidney to Jose Borgen, a urologist and
surgeon who had also studied at National Autonomous University.
Borgen later told police he transplanted the kidney into Ryan
without complications.  Blood Surged  Less than an hour after the surgery, Picado’s blood
pressure plummeted and he stopped breathing, a coroner’s report
says. Blood surged from the severed artery, and doctors tried to
rescue him. By the time Picado died, he’d lost 80 percent of his
blood, hospital records show.  Within five days, Ryan’s body began to reject Picado’s
kidney, his immune system attacking it as if it were a virus.
Surgeons removed it. Ryan died on Aug. 8, 2009.  Nicaragua’s health ministry found in February 2010 that the
hospital had violated regulations by failing to examine Picado
properly before surgery. The ministry is investigating whether
the doctors were qualified.  Solano , the Nicaraguan human rights lawyer, says he hopes
this case forces the nation to toughen its laws.  “Our country may be an organ shop for the rich,” he says.
“This organ-trafficking business is a sleeping giant that is
being awoken.”  61 Cases  In Peru, Latin America’s fifth-most-populous country,
prosecutors are conducting a much more extensive investigation.
They’re looking at 61 cases of suspicious transplants and are
targeting the role of brokers.  It’s in the slums of Lima, the capital, where brokers have
found most of their recruits. Brokers enlist people like Jose
Levano, an unemployed medical laboratory technician, and his
wife, Vilma Bramon. They live with one of their four children
and Levano’s elderly mother in a derelict home in Ancon, a dusty
coastal town on the northern edge of Lima. They have no running
water.  In 2005, Levano, 45, placed an ad in a local newspaper
offering to sell a kidney. Peraldo, the taxi driver, responded.
Peraldo paid Levano $5,000, and surgeons at  Clinica
Internacional  in Lima completed the transplant without any
complications on Aug. 20, 2005, Levano says.  By late 2007, the couple was broke, after having cared for
an ailing relative. Levano called Peraldo, saying his wife would
sell a kidney so the family could get some money. Peraldo took
Bramon, a housewife, to Laboratorio Clinico LAD SrL, a medical
testing laboratory in Lima that’s co-owned by Peraldo’s friend
Victor Salas, a pathologist, Bramon says.  ‘Perfect Candidate’  A few days later, Peraldo brought Bramon to Christian
Miranda, a nephrologist at Clinica El Golf hospital in Lima’s
 San Isidro  neighborhood, where mansions and luxury apartments
line the streets.  “He told me I was a perfect candidate to be a donor and
nothing would happen to me,” Bramon says.  In early January 2008, Peraldo contacted Bramon with the
news that he’d found a patient who needed her kidney, she says.
On Jan. 20, Miranda had Bramon admitted to  San Felipe Hospital ,
her medical records show. As she settled into a private room,
Peraldo gave her $6,000 in cash, Bramon says.  The next day, on Jan. 21, 2008, Jose Arias, a transplant
surgeon on the hospital’s staff, removed her kidney. The organ
was transplanted into a Spanish man, hospital records from the
criminal investigation say.  Constant Pain  Immediately after her surgery, Bramon was moved to an
intensive care bed, suffering from high fever, nausea and a
urinary tract blockage, she says.  “I thought I was going to die,” she says.  Bramon says she has been in pain ever since. At night, she
can’t lie on her left side because it hurts too much. She’s
visited four different doctors, had six abdominal scans and
taken five different painkillers. She spent all the cash she got
for her kidney on medication and doctors.  In January this year, Bramon allowed a reporter to
accompany her on a visit to Wilfredo Luna, a cardiovascular
surgeon in Lima. She told the doctor that her pain was
overwhelming. Luna, 50, examined images of Bramon’s abdomen and
shook his head. The malady was caused by a poorly made incision
during the transplant, which slashed nerves, he said.  “It cannot be reversed,” he told her.  Arias says in his office at San Felipe that he’s been paid
$4,000 to $5,000 for each of the four transplants he’s done. All
of his donors, as required by law, said they hadn’t accepted
money for their organ, he says.  ‘What Can I Do?’  “If these people are up to something but have all the
correct papers, what can I do?” Arias says. Bramon says she
signed a sworn statement saying she wasn’t compensated for her
kidney because Peraldo said that was the only way she’d get
paid.  Miranda, the nephrologist, told investigators he didn’t
know anything about organ trafficking in Peru.  “I don’t belong to or know of any illicit organization,”
Miranda said in a Jan. 14, 2010, statement to police. He didn’t
return telephone and written requests for comment.  Peruvian prosecutors started their criminal investigation
of Peraldo and his associates in October 2009. Peraldo said he
was a taxi driver who knew nothing about donors paying for
kidneys. Salas, who says he screens patients for transplants,
told investigators he didn’t know anything about organ
trafficking. He didn’t respond to requests seeking comment.  Within a year after harvesting Bramon’s kidney, Peraldo and
Miranda found someone else who was willing to sell an organ. In
late 2008, a friend who had sold a kidney sent Eduardo Yataco, a
construction laborer in Lima, to Peraldo.  ‘Totally Safe’  “He promised about $12,000,” Yataco, 33, says. “He said
it was totally safe.”  In February 2009, when Peraldo said it was time to donate
his kidney, Yataco says he told his wife he was going to
Trujillo, in northwestern Peru, on a construction job.  “I was embarrassed that I was doing this, so I lied,”
says Yataco, a thin man with black hair and deep-set brown eyes.
Yataco went to Lima’s  Clinica Vesalio .  Arias, Bramon’s surgeon, cut out Yataco’s left kidney on
Feb. 12, 2009, hospital records show. The recipient of Yataco’s
organ was a Lima woman, according to hospital records cited by
police. Yataco, who says he signed a statement at Peraldo’s
request before the procedure saying he wasn’t being compensated,
says Peraldo paid him about $12,000.  ‘She Was Horrified’  The for-pay organ trade cost Yataco his marriage and his
health.  “When my wife saw this, she was horrified,” says Yataco,
pulling up his work shirt to show a 4-inch (10-centimeter) scar
where doctors removed a kidney. “She asked me what would have
happened if I had died on the operating table, and she was
right. My wife left me because of this.”  Yataco looks pale, and his eyes have a yellowish tint. He
says he’s always tired and his side is in constant pain.  “Physically and emotionally, I am not the same man,” he
says, shaking his head. “I’m alone, broke and humiliated.”  Seven months later, Miranda was contacted by a Mexican man
who wanted to buy a kidney, according to police findings. Oscar
Soberon, founder of Mexico City-based computer systems company
 S&C Constructores de Sistemas , had been suffering from kidney
failure since December 2008.  He’d heard about the organ ring in Peru from a barber at
his country club in Mexico City, his son, Oscar Soberon Jr.,
says.  In late September 2009, the senior Soberon called Miranda
in Lima, and the doctor promised him a transplant with a donated
kidney for $125,000, Soberon told police after the transplant.  ‘Cover the Costs’  “He told me that would cover all the costs for me and the
person who donated the kidney,” Soberon said.  Peraldo called Santiago Montero, a 34-year-old baker in
Lima, according to a statement Montero gave police. When Montero
was admitted to Santa Lucia hospital in Lima on Oct. 31, 2009,
doctors listed kidney stones as the reason for removing his
kidney, hospital records show.  “The idea was to hide what was happening,” Montero later
told police as they were investigating the case. “The truth is,
my kidney was never sick.”  Surgeons removed Montero’s left kidney on Nov. 1, 2009, and
transplanted it into Soberon. As Montero recovered from the
surgery, Peraldo stopped by.  “He gave me $7,000 in U.S. dollars,” Montero told
investigators.  ‘It’s All About Money’  Six weeks after the surgery, Soberon, 56, began complaining
of severe pain. He went to San Felipe, the same Lima hospital
where surgeons had removed Bramon’s kidney, according to police
interviews.  Soberon’s body rejected the transplanted kidney, his
medical records show. On Dec. 13, doctors removed it. Within 10
days, Soberon had developed a fever and pneumonia, a Dec. 23,
2009, investigation report shows. He died on Jan. 14, 2010, in
Mexico City, and his body was cremated, his death certificate
says.  “I don’t think this business has anything to do with
medicine,” Oscar Soberon Jr. says. “It’s all about money.”  Fanny Fregueiros, an attorney for the  Peruvian Health
Ministry , says Soberon died because the transplant was poorly
done.  “I investigated this thoroughly, and it’s clear there was
criminal negligence,” she says. On Jan. 26, 2010, Fregueiros
recommended the National Prosecutor’s Office charge those
responsible with criminal organ trafficking. As of May 11, no
one had been charged.  ‘It’s False’  Miranda and Peraldo told investigators that they hadn’t
paid Montero for a kidney.  “It’s false that I said there was a donor or spoke of
economic figures,” Miranda told police.  These kinds of conflicting statements are typical of the
organ transplant trade, making it hard to curb illegal behavior,
Harvard’s Delmonico says. He’s spent the past six years
traveling internationally to urge doctors and governments to
stop organ trafficking.  “The problem is that you have so many people who are
desperate for a transplant and willing to pay for one and so
many poor people who need the money and can be exploited,” he
says.  Back in Managua, Elizabeth Tercero weeps. In March this
year, Tercero visited the  prosecutor  investigating her son’s
death, and she says he told her that it may be too hard to prove
anyone broke the law.  “This crackdown won’t bring back my son Luis,” she says.
Her pain shows how putting a price tag on human organs isn’t
just illegal; it’s also potentially deadly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Smith  in Santiago at 
 Mssmith@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Neumann at 
 jneumann2@bloomberg.net  