-- 
Dixons Sees Unchanged 2011 Profit as Second-Half Sales Fall

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-05-12T10:15:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/dixons-sees-unchanged-2011-profit-as-second-half-sales-fall-1-.html
Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS) ,  Europe ’s largest
electronics retailer, said it’s planning cautiously for next
year and expects unchanged profit at best after reporting a
slump in second-half sales.  Revenue at stores open at least a year fell 4 percent in
the 26 weeks ended April 30, the  Hemel Hempstead , England-based
retailer said today. Sales on that basis declined 2 percent for
the year, after being unchanged in the first half.  A surge in television sales around the World Cup soccer
tournament last year and exclusive sales of Apple Inc.’s iPad
won’t be repeated this fiscal year, Chief Executive Officer John Browett said on a call with reporters. The executive said he
still expects to outperform the market as he reformats larger
locations into combined electronics and computing “megastores”
and improves  customer service .  “It appears a difficult task for 2012 profit before tax to
rise, despite potential mitigation from withdrawing from the
lossmaking Spanish activities,” David Jeary, an analyst at
Investec Securities, wrote in a report. The retailer is exiting
 Spain , where it has 34 stores, to cut costs.  Analyst pretax profit estimates are in a range of 70
million pounds ($114 million) to 90 million pounds for next
year, the 1,200-store retailer said. Dixons maintained its
forecast for pretax profit this year at 85 million pounds.  Market Share  Dixons is taking market share as sales of iPads, household
appliances such as washing machines and consumer electronics
like Dr. Dre headphones increase, Browett said.  The shares slid as much as 2.8 percent in  London  and traded
at 15.7 pence, down 2.1 percent, at 10:51 a.m.  Competitor Kesa Electricals Plc said yesterday that same-
store sales at its U.K. Comet chain fell 15 percent in the three
months ended April 30 as Britons reined in spending.  “2011 will go down as one of the more challenging years
for the quoted electrical retailers,” Ramona Tipnis, an analyst
at Shore Capital, said before the sales report. She has a
“hold” recommendation on Dixons stock.  Same-store sales at the company’s U.K. business fell 7
percent in the second half, Dixons said. That was an improvement
on the 11 percent decline reported by the retailer for the 11
weeks through March 26.  “With challenging economic headwinds continuing for many
of our customers, we remain cautious on the outlook for the year
ahead,” Browett said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 