-- 
Yen Advances as Drop in Commodities Prompts Unwinding of Higher-Yield Bets

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-05-12T15:24:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/dollar-advances-against-major-peers-as-commodities-stock-markets-decline.html
The yen strengthened against most of
its major counterparts as falling commodities and stocks
prompted investors to unwind bets on higher-yielding assets.  Australia ’s dollar was among the worst performers versus
the greenback as China raised its banks’ reserve requirements to
restrain prices, adding to the likelihood its growth will slow,
and raw materials slid for a second day. The euro touched the
lowest level against the dollar in more than six weeks as
concern persisted that Greece will have to restructure debt.  “With commodities coming off, equities coming off, you’re
going to see  risk aversion , and you’ll see the dollar and yen
benefit,” said John McCarthy, director of currency trading at
ING Groep NV in New York. “The euro still looks quite heavy.”  The yen appreciated 0.4 percent to 80.73 per dollar at
11:23 a.m. in  New York , from 81.05 yesterday. The dollar
weakened 0.2 percent versus the euro to $1.4213 after earlier
gaining to $1.4124, the strongest level since April 1. Against
the euro, the Japanese currency appreciated 0.3 percent to
114.74 yen, after reaching 114.19, the strongest since March 28.  The so-called carry trade in which investors borrow in yen
to buy the higher-yielding currencies of Australia,  New Zealand 
and Canada has lost 0.5 percent this month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
touched 333.5, the lowest level since Jan. 28, before trading at
335.55, down 0.8 percent. Crude oil for June delivery declined
as much as 3 percent to $95.25 a barrel in New York. CME Group
Inc. raised the cost of making new speculative silver bets on
May 2, helping spark a sell-off in commodities. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.3 percent.  Dollar Index  The Dollar Index, which tracks the currency against six
major trading partners, touched 75.645, the strongest level
since April 19, before trading little changed at 75.318.  “Previous dollar weakness wasn’t going to change unless we
got a change in our risk environment, and it looks like
heightened concerns about  Europe  and increased margins at the
CME had the ability to trigger a selloff in commodities,” said
 Jessica Hoversen , a New York-based analyst at the futures broker
MF Global Holdings Ltd. “The commodity currencies will trade
weak today.”  Thirty percent of global investors questioned in a
Bloomberg survey intend to reduce investments in commodities, a
quarterly poll of 1,263 investors, analysts and traders showed.  Greek Restructuring  The euro erased a decline against the dollar as  Lucas Papademos , a former  European Central Bank  vice-president who’s
now an adviser to the Greek government, said that restructuring
the country’s debt is not necessary.  The shared currency earlier slid versus the greenback after
officials from the European Union, European Central Bank and
 International Monetary Fund  began yesterday their fourth
evaluation of  Greece ’s economy.  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said the delegation will need “a few weeks” to determine
Greece’s financing needs and the potential size of any new aid.  “The market is really focused on the Greek situation and
any euro bounces are an opportunity to sell,” said  Greg Salvaggio , senior vice president of capital markets at currency-
trading firm Tempus Consulting Inc in  Washington . “There is a
70 percent chance they will have to restructure Greece’s debt,
and that would open Pandora’s box.”  The Swedish krona rose against most of its major
counterparts as inflation jumped to the highest in more than two
years, supporting the central bank’s plan to continue raising
 interest rates . The currency gained 0.2 percent to 6.3234
against the dollar.  Swedish Inflation  Inflation accelerated to an annual 3.3 percent from 2.9
percent in March, according to  Statistics Sweden . The central
has raised its benchmark rate six times since July, bringing it
to 1.75 percent.  Norway’s krone gained versus against the Canadian dollar as
the nation’s central bank increased its overnight deposit rate
to 2.25 percent, from 2 percent. The krone rose 0.5 percent
versus the Canadian currency to 5.7077.  Canada ’s dollar weakened
0.7 percent to 96.91 U.S. cents. Norway and Canada export oil.  The krone slipped 0.2 percent over the past week in the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a measure of 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar gained 0.9 percent,
while the euro lost 1.7 percent.  The greenback’s appreciation may signal investors are
starting to unravel bets placed when the  Federal Reserve  began a
second round of debt purchases in November to spur the economy
under a strategy called quantitative easing, according to Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. The $600 billion program is
scheduled to end in June.  ‘End of QE2’  Recent reversals in financial markets may “reflect an
ongoing adjustment to the end of QE2 from the Fed, which is
coming more closely into view,”  Lee Hardman , a currency
strategist in  London , wrote in an investor report. “The
prolonged period of risk-seeking could soon be coming to an
end.”  Australia’s dollar dropped for a second day versus the
dollar and the yen as investors trimmed bets on central-bank
rate increases after employment dropped by the most since 2009.
The number of people employed in declined by 22,100, the
statistics bureau said. The Aussie declined 0.7 percent to
$1.0628 and dropped 1 percent to 85.82 yen.  The People’s Bank of  China  said on its website that bank
reserve ratios will increase 0.5 percentage point from May 18,
today. The requirements currently stand at 20.5 percent for the
biggest lenders. China is Australia’s No. 1 trading partner.
after unemployment climbed in some states.  New Zealand’s dollar snapped two days of losses after an
index of the manufacturing industry grew at a faster pace last
month as the economy rebounding from a February earthquake. The
currency gained 0.4 percent to 79.21 U.S. cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  