-- 
Dollar Falls Versus Euro as Commodities, Stocks Rebound; N.Z. Dollar Gains

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-05-12T21:24:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/dollar-fluctuates-versus-major-peers-as-commodities-equities-pare-losses.html
The dollar fell versus the euro,
after earlier reaching a six-week high against the shared
currency, as commodities and U.S. stocks rebounded.  The greenback rose earlier against most major peers as
falling raw-materials prices prompted investors to unwind bets
on higher-yielding assets. Volatility in currencies of the Group
of Seven nations reached almost the highest level since March.
New Zealand’s dollar was the top performer against the U.S.
currency as manufacturing in the nation accelerated.  “Commodity markets are in the driver’s seat for  currency
markets ,” said  Mary Nicola , a New York-based currency
strategist at BNP Paribas SA. “We have seen a bounce back in
oil today, and so that has affected dollar strength.”  The dollar fell 0.4 percent versus the euro to $1.4246 at 5
p.m. in New York, from $1.4192 yesterday. It earlier gained to
$1.4124, the strongest level since April 1. The yen appreciated
0.1 percent to 80.94 per dollar, from 81.05. The Japanese
currency slipped 0.2 percent to 115.31 per euro, after reaching
114.19 yen, the strongest since March 28.  Implied volatility among currencies of the Group of Seven
nations reached 11.97 today, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
index. The gauge touched 12.09 on May 5, the highest level since
March 17.  New Zealand ’s dollar snapped two days of losses versus the
greenback after an index of the manufacturing industry grew at a
faster pace last month as the economy rebounded from a February
earthquake. The currency gained 0.8 percent to 79.56 U.S. cents.  Krona Climbs  The Swedish krona was the second-best performer as
inflation in the country jumped to the highest level in more
than two years, supporting the central bank’s plan to continue
raising  interest rates . The krona gained 0.6 percent to 6.2974
per dollar.  Inflation accelerated to an annual 3.3 percent from 2.9
percent in March, according to  Statistics Sweden . The central
has raised its benchmark rate six times since July, bringing it
to 1.75 percent.  The dollar reversed gains versus the euro as commodities
ended a retreat. Crude oil for June delivery rose 0.8 percent to
$98.97 a barrel in  New York  after earlier tumbling 3 percent to
$95.25. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.5 percent.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
was up 0.1 percent to 338.56. It fell earlier as much as 1.4
percent to 333.5, the lowest level since Jan. 28, and rose as
much as 0.7 percent.  Reductions Planned  Thirty percent of global investors questioned in a
Bloomberg survey intend to reduce investments in commodities, a
quarterly poll of 1,263 investors, analysts and traders showed.  The euro fell earlier against the dollar as  Europe ’s donor
nations said  Greece  will need to meet tougher conditions than
last year to win new aid that would avert a debt restructuring
and cover almost 30 billion euros ($42 billion) of financing
needs next year.  “The market is really focused on the Greek situation,”
said  Greg Salvaggio , senior vice president of capital markets at
currency-trading firm Tempus Consulting Inc in  Washington .
“There is a 70 percent chance they will have to restructure
Greece’s debt, and that would open Pandora’s box.”  Euro-region finance ministers will meet in Brussels on May
16 to discuss more support for Greece beyond the 110 billion-
euro rescue granted a year ago, Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group, said today in Mainz,  Germany .  Not Necessary  Lucas Papademos , a former European Central Bank vice-
president who’s now an adviser to the Greek government, said
that restructuring the country’s debt is not necessary.  Norway ’s krone gained versus against the Canadian dollar as
the nation’s central bank increased its overnight deposit rate
to 2.25 percent, from 2 percent. The krone rose 0.3 percent
versus the Canadian currency to 5.7184.  Canada ’s dollar weakened
as much as 0.8 percent to 96.95 U.S. cents before oil rallied.
Both Canada and Norway export oil.  The krone has gained 0.7 percent over the past week in the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a measure of 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar rose 0.1 percent, while
the euro lost 0.5 percent.  The greenback’s appreciation may signal investors are
starting to unravel bets placed when the  Federal Reserve  began a
second round of debt purchases in November to spur the economy
under a strategy called quantitative easing, according to Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. The $600 billion program is
scheduled to end in June.  Risk Rally Ending  John Taylor , founder of the world’s largest currency-hedge
fund, said the rally in higher-yielding assets is coming to an
end with Europe’s sovereign debt crisis resurfacing, growth
sluggish and banking systems unsteady.  “This is the end of the nice, slow-moving risk rally that
has lulled us pleasantly to sleep since the first half of
2009,” Taylor, chairman of New York-based FX Concepts LLC, said
in an interview. “This warning is worthy of a brass band and
bright lights as the other side of this low-volatility rally
will most likely be a scary descent that will have a very
negative impact on markets.”  U.S. consumer prices rose 0.4 percent last month, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists
before Labor Department data due tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  