-- 
ECB Will Monitor Upside Inflation Risks ‘Very Closely’

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-05-12T08:18:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/ecb-says-it-will-monitor-upside-inflation-risks-very-closely-.html
The  European Central Bank  said it
will continue to monitor upside risks to inflation “very
closely” after raising  interest rates  in April.  “We continue to see upward pressure on overall inflation,
mainly owing to energy and commodity prices,” the Frankfurt-
based central bank said in its monthly bulletin today, echoing
President Jean-Claude Trichet’s May 5 policy statement. The
policy stance remains “accommodative” and “we will continue
to monitor very closely all developments with respect to upside
risks to  price stability ,” it said.  ECB officials including  Italy ’s Mario Draghi and Austria’s
Ewald Nowotny have spoken of the need to “normalize” the
bank’s benchmark interest rate, even as the sovereign debt
crisis in countries including Greece and  Portugal  has
intensified. The central bank raised the benchmark by a quarter
point to 1.25 percent in April, the first increase in almost
three years, and economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect at
least two further steps this year.  Inflation, which the ECB aims to keep just below 2 percent,
accelerated to 2.8 percent last month.  Professional forecasters surveyed quarterly by the ECB
raised their estimate for inflation this year to 2.5 percent
from 1.9 percent. The expectation for 2012 rose to 1.9 percent
from 1.8 percent, the ECB said today. Forecasters’ long-term
inflation expectation stayed at 2 percent.  “According to respondents’ comments, the substantial
upward revision for 2011 is almost entirely accounted for by the
sharp rise in commodity prices, in particular energy prices,”
the ECB said.  Forecasters raised their prediction for economic growth in
the region this year to 1.7 percent from 1.6 percent and kept
their estimate for next year at 1.7 percent. “The upward
revision in 2011 was supported mainly by higher domestic
activity at the beginning of the year in some larger euro-area
economies, particularly in  Germany ,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 Jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  