-- 
ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for May (Text)

-- B y   M a r k   E v a n s
-- 
2011-05-12T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-may-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s May monthly bulletin:  Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 5 May 2011 to keep
the key ECB  interest rates  unchanged following the 25-basis
point increase on 7 April 2011. The information that has become
available since then confirms the assessment that an adjustment
of the very accommodative monetary policy stance was warranted.
The Governing Council continues to see upward pressure on
overall inflation, mainly owing to energy and commodity prices.
While the monetary analysis indicates that the underlying pace
of monetary expansion is still moderate, monetary liquidity
remains ample and may facilitate the accommodation of price
pressures. Furthermore, recent economic data confirm the
positive underlying momentum of economic activity in the euro
area, with uncertainty continuing to be elevated. All in all, it
is essential that recent price developments do not give rise to
broad-based inflationary pressures. Inflation expectations in
the euro area must remain firmly anchored in line with the aim
of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the
medium term. Such anchoring is a prerequisite for monetary
policy to make an ongoing contribution towards supporting
economic growth and job creation in the euro area. With interest
rates across the entire maturity spectrum remaining low and the
monetary policy stance still accommodative, the Governing
Council will continue to monitor very closely all developments
with respect to upside risks to  price stability . Maintaining
price stability over the medium term is the guiding principle,
which the Governing Council applies when assessing new
information, forming judgements and deciding on any further
adjustment of the accommodative stance of monetary policy.  As stated on previous occasions, the provision of liquidity and
the allotment modes for refinancing operations will also be
adjusted when appropriate, taking into account the fact that all
the non-standard measures taken during the period of acute
financial market tensions are, by construction, temporary in
nature.  With regard to the economic analysis, following the 0.3%
quarter-on-quarter increase in euro area real GDP in the fourth
quarter of 2010, recent statistical releases and survey-based
indicators point towards a continued positive underlying
momentum of economic activity in the euro area during the first
quarter of 2011 and at the beginning of the second quarter.
Looking ahead, euro area exports should be supported by the
ongoing expansion in the world economy. At the same time, taking
into account the high level of business confidence in the euro
area, private sector domestic demand should contribute
increasingly to economic growth, benefiting from the
accommodative monetary policy stance and the measures adopted to
improve the functioning of the financial system. However,
activity is expected to continue to be dampened somewhat by the
process of balance sheet adjustment in various sectors.  In the Governing Council’s assessment, the risks to this
economic outlook remain broadly balanced in an environment of
elevated uncertainty. On the one hand, global trade may continue
to grow more rapidly than expected, thereby supporting euro area
exports. Moreover, strong business confidence could provide more
support to domestic economic activity in the euro area than
currently expected. On the other hand, downside risks relate to
the ongoing tensions in some segments of the financial markets
that may potentially spill over to the euro area real economy.
Downside risks also relate to further increases in energy
prices, particularly in view of ongoing geopolitical tensions in
North Africa and the Middle East, and to protectionist pressures
and the possibility of a disorderly correction of global
imbalances. Finally, there are still potential risks stemming
from the economic impact on the euro area and elsewhere of the
natural and nuclear disasters in  Japan .  With regard to price developments, euro area annual HICP
inflation was 2.8% in April according to Eurostat’s flash
estimate, after 2.7% in March. The increase in inflation rates
during the first four months of 2011 largely reflects higher
commodity prices. Looking ahead, inflation rates are likely to
stay clearly above 2% over the coming months. Upward pressure on
inflation, mainly from energy and commodity prices, is also
discernible in the earlier stages of the production process. It
is of paramount importance that the rise in HICP inflation does
not translate into second-round effects in price and wage-
setting behaviour and lead to broad-based inflationary
pressures. Inflation expectations must remain firmly anchored in
line with the Governing Council’s aim of maintaining inflation
rates below, but close to, 2% over the medium term.  Risks to the medium-term outlook for price developments remain
on the upside. They relate, in particular, to higher than
assumed increases in energy prices, not least on account of the
ongoing political tensions in North Africa and the Middle East.
More generally, strong economic growth in emerging markets,
supported by ample liquidity at the global level, may further
fuel commodity price rises. Moreover, increases in indirect
taxes and administered prices may be greater than currently
assumed, owing to the need for fiscal consolidation in the
coming years. Finally, risks also relate to stronger than
expected domestic price pressures in the context of the ongoing
recovery in activity.  Turning to the monetary analysis, the annual growth rate of M3
increased to 2.3% in March 2011, from 2.1% in February. Looking
through the recent volatility in broad money growth caused by
special factors, M3 growth has continued to edge up over recent
months. The annual growth rate of loans to the private sector
remained broadly unchanged at 2.5% in March, after 2.6% in
February. Overall, the underlying pace of monetary expansion is
gradually picking up, but it remains moderate. At the same time,
monetary liquidity accumulated prior to the period of financial
market tensions remains ample and may facilitate the
accommodation of price pressures in the euro area.  Looking at M3 components, the annual growth rate of M1 remained
broadly unchanged in March, while that of other short-term
deposits increased. The development partly reflects the gradual
increase in the remuneration of these deposits over recent
months. At the same time, the steep yield curve implies a
dampening impact on overall M3 growth, as it reduces the
attractiveness of monetary assets compared with more highly
remunerated longer-term instruments outside M3.  On the counterpart side, there has been a further slight
strengthening in the growth of loans to non-financial
corporations, which rose to 0.8% in March, after 0.6% in
February. The growth of loans to households was 3.4% in March,
compared with 3.0% in February. Looking through short-term
volatility, the latest data confirm a continued gradual
strengthening in the annual growth of lending to the non-
financial private sector.  The overall size of bank balance sheets has remained broadly
unchanged over the past few months, notwithstanding some
volatility. It is important that banks continue to expand the
provision of credit to the private sector in an environment of
increasing demand. To address this challenge, where necessary,
it is essential for banks to retain earnings, to turn to the
market to strengthen further their capital bases or to take full
advantage of government support measures for recapitalisation.
In particular, banks that currently have limited access to
market financing urgently need to increase their capital and
their efficiency.  To sum up, based on its regular economic and monetary analyses,
the Governing Council decided to keep the key ECB interest rates
unchanged following the 25-basis point increase on 7 April 2011.
The information that has become available since then confirms
the assessment that an adjustment of the very accommodative
monetary policy stance was warranted. The Governing Council
continues to see upward pressure on overall inflation, mainly
owing to energy and commodity prices. A cross-check with the
signals coming from the monetary analysis indicates that, while
the underlying pace of monetary expansion is still moderate,
monetary liquidity remains ample and may facilitate the
accommodation of price pressures. Furthermore, recent economic
data confirm the positive underlying momentum of economic
activity in the euro area, with uncertainty continuing to be
elevated. All in all, it is essential that recent price
developments do not give rise to broad-based inflationary
pressures. Inflation expectations in the euro area must remain
firmly anchored in line with the aim of maintaining inflation
rates below, but close to, 2% over the medium term. Such
anchoring is a prerequisite for monetary policy to make an
ongoing contribution towards supporting economic growth and job
creation in the euro area. With interest rates across the entire
maturity spectrum remaining low and the monetary policy stance
still accommodative, the Governing Council will continue to
monitor very closely all developments with respect to upside
risks to price stability. Maintaining price stability over the
medium term is the guiding principle, which the Governing
Council applies when assessing new information, forming
judgements and deciding on any further adjustment of the
accommodative stance of monetary policy.  Turning to fiscal policies, current information points to uneven
developments in countries’ adherence to the agreed fiscal
consolidation plans. There is a risk that, in some countries,
fiscal balances may fall behind the targets agreed by the ECOFIN
Council for the necessary and timely correction of excessive
deficits. It is essential that all governments meet the fiscal
balance targets for 2011 that they have announced. Where
necessary, additional corrective measures must be implemented
swiftly to ensure progress in achieving fiscal sustainability.
The implementation of credible policies is crucial in view of
ongoing financial market pressures.  At the same time, it is of the utmost importance that
substantial and far-reaching structural reforms be implemented
urgently in the euro area in order to strengthen its growth
potential, competitiveness and flexibility. In particular,
countries which have high fiscal and external deficits or which
are suffering from a loss of competitiveness should embark on
comprehensive economic reforms. In the case of product markets,
policies that enhance competition and innovation should, in
particular, be further pursued to speed up restructuring and to
bring about improvements in productivity. Regarding the labour
market, the priority must be to enhance wage flexibility and
incentives to work, and to remove labour market rigidities.  The Governing Council, in line with the ECB’s opinion of 17
February 2011 on the six legislative proposals on economic
governance, urges the ECOFIN Council, the European Parliament
and the European Commission to agree, in the context of their
“trialogue”, on more stringent requirements, more automaticity
in the procedures and a clearer focus on the most vulnerable
countries with losses in competitiveness.  Finally, the Governing Council welcomes the economic and
financial adjustment programme which was agreed by the
 Portuguese government  following the successful conclusion of the
negotiations with the European Commission, in liaison with the
ECB and the  International Monetary Fund . The programme contains
the necessary elements to bring about a sustainable
stabilisation of the Portuguese economy. It addresses in a
decisive manner the economic and financial causes underlying
current market concerns and will thereby contribute to restoring
confidence and safeguarding financial stability in the euro
area. The Governing Council welcomes the commitment of the
Portuguese public authorities to take all the necessary measures
to achieve the objectives of the programme. It considers very
important the broad political support for the adjustment
programme, which enhances the overall credibility of the
programme.  This issue of the Monthly Bulletin contains two articles. The
first describes the patterns of euro area and US macroeconomic
cycles and provides some reflections on the recovery. The second
reviews and assesses the rationale and current arrangements for
the external representation of the EU and EMU.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Evans in London at   mevans8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  