-- 
EDF Revenue Falls After U.K. Grid Sale, Drop in Trading

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-05-12T12:16:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/edf-sales-drop-after-u-k-grid-sale-decline-in-trading-revenue.html
Electricite de  France  SA,  Europe ’s
biggest power producer, reported a drop in first-quarter revenue
following the disposal of its U.K. grid and lower sales from
energy trading.  Revenue fell to 19.6 billion euros ($27.8 billion) from
19.8 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based operator of
France’s 58 nuclear reactors said today in a statement. The
utility confirmed 2011 financial and nuclear output targets.  Nuclear generation in France increased 6.5 percent, or 7.3
terawatt hours, allowing EDF to increase sales on wholesale
markets as less production was needed for its own customers
given mild winter weather, the company said. Sales dropped 14
percent on a like-for-like basis at EDF Trading due in part to
“difficult market conditions” stemming from the “geopolitical
context” of oil-producing countries, the utility said.  EDF Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  has struggled to
raise atomic output in France due to a series of technical
faults at reactors. Prime Minister Francois Fillon has said
boosting power output from the French fleet should be a top
priority for the state-controlled utility. The government
reaffirmed its backing for atomic energy following a disaster in
 Japan  that prompted countries such as Germany and  Italy  to
rethink their nuclear policies.  ‘Economic Consequences’  EDF anticipates countries where it operates will require
inspections and higher safety standards after the accident at
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in March, according to the
statement. “It is impossible to assess the economic
consequences at this stage,” the utility said.  The “excellent” availability of the French nuclear
reactors in the latest quarter is due to an “absence of
significant unplanned” halts following a program to change
parts, EDF said.  Output through April was 6.1 percent higher at 152.7
terawatt hours, even with 136 more days of planned outages
because of 10-year safety inspections on four reactors,
according to a presentation on the company’s Web site.  “The unplanned outages are down an impressive 83
percent,” UBS AG analyst Per Lekander wrote in an e-mail,
calling first-quarter output a “remarkable” improvement.  Higher atomic output offset a drop by 2.1 terawatt hours of
hydroelectric output due to relatively dry conditions.  EDF is targeting Ebitda growth of 4 percent to 6 percent
this year, a dividend “at least stable” with the 1.15 euros a
share proposed for 2010 and a ratio of net financial debt to
ebitda of between 2 and 2.2.  Nuclear production is forecast to range from between 408
terawatt hours and 415 terawatt hours this year with a
“minimum” measure of reactor availability of 78.5 percent,
according to the presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  