-- 
Jiau Loses Bid to Have Recorded Calls Suppressed at Insider-Trading Trial

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-05-12T22:38:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/hedge-fund-phone-calls-can-be-used-at-jiau-s-insider-trial-judge-says.html
Winifred Jiau, the former Primary
Global Research LLC consultant accused of  insider trading , lost
a bid to have recordings of phone calls she made to hedge fund
Barai Capital Management suppressed at her criminal trial.  Jason Pflaum, 38, a former analyst at Barai Capital
testified today at a pretrial hearing in Jiau’s case that he
listened in on phone calls when his boss, Samir Barai, got
nonpublic information on companies from Jiau.  Pflaum said he also recorded the calls, wrote
contemporaneous electronic instant messages and kept notes and
that Barai didn’t tell anyone on the calls that his assistant
was listening in, Pflaum testified in federal court in
Manhattan.  “The purpose was for me to keep Sam in the flow of the
conversation and fill him in and respond to questions or think
up questions,” Pflaum said. “Some of it was of a sensitive
matter and I didn’t think Sam wanted other people to know
someone was listening in.”  Jiau, who is charged with passing illegal tips on  Nvidia
Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) , is set to go on trial
June 1 and had asked U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff to suppress
the recordings and instant messages. Today, he rejected the
request. Jiau faces as long as 25 years in prison if convicted
of conspiracy and securities fraud.  ‘Spot On’  Pflaum testified that another employee at the fund also
made digital recordings of Barai’s calls with Jiau when he
wasn’t available and said the employee gave him the recorder
when he left the firm.  Pflaum said he kept the device in his desk until he agreed
to cooperate with the U.S. in October 2010 and turned it over to
agents of the  Federal Bureau of Investigation .  He told Rakoff that after listening in on the first
conversation between Barai and Jiau in May 2008, he compared her
earnings information to the results Marvell later announced.
Pflaum said he cut and paste his instant electronic messages of
his discussion with Barai into a Microsoft Word file to save it.  “I came to the realization that the information we talked
about was, like, absolutely spot on,” Pflaum said. “I had a
moment like, oh my God, this was the information to a T, so I
put it on my notes and saved it.”  Cash Payments  Pflaum testified there were also taped recordings at his
hedge fund of conversations between Barai, Jiau and Noah Freeman, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP junior portfolio
manager who pleaded guilty in February to federal charges and is
also cooperating with prosecutors.  Rakoff asked Pflaum, “Was there trading on inside
information involving people other than Jiau?”  “Yes,” Pflaum said.  Under questioning by Assistant  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney
David Leibowitz, Pflaum said that Barai gave him a $50,000 cash
payment in 2009 and about $30,000 in 2010.  “I pushed back multiple times,” Pflaum said. “I was
uncomfortable paying in cash if there was a way to bump up my
salary,” he said. “I basically caved in and agreed.”  Prosecutors also supplied Rakoff with some of the instant
electronic messages Barai and Pflaum exchanged during calls with
Jiau, who the U.S. said was paid as much as $10,000 a month for
her tips.  Cooks, Sugar  In a May 2008 conversation, which was previously released
by the U.S., Jiau demanded $2,000 each for information from her
sources at Marvell and Nvidia.  “Can u confirm amt?” Barai wrote to Pflaum. “What is she
saying?”  “Each source 2k,” Pflaum replied. “Need to commit now,”
he relayed to Barai. “Don’t forget ur promise,” Pflaum wrote
to Barai, adding later, “She will be watching her mailbox!”  Prosecutors said Jiau sometimes referred to her sources as
cooks and money as sugar, saying, “cooks don’t talk to me
without sugar. They are not my boyfriends.”  Barai has been in talks with the U.S. on whether he will
cooperate with the government, prosecutors said in court papers
filed in April. His lawyer, Evan Barr, declined to comment.  At the end of today’s hearing, Rakoff rejected a request by
Jiau’s defense lawyer, Joanna Hendon, to suppress the
recordings.  “I do not agree with the defendant’s interpretation,” of
the law, Rakoff said. “Nothing I’ve heard in this hearing
really dissuades me from the view that I’ve reached.”  Michael Grudberg, a lawyer for Pflaum, declined to comment,
as did Hendon.  The case is part of a crackdown on employees and
consultants at  Primary Global Research , a  Mountain View ,
California-based expert-networking firm that links investors
with industry experts who work for public companies.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  