-- 
Hedge Funds Failing to Flee London as Swiss Reveal Wonder-Bust

-- B y   L e i g h   B a l d w i n   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-05-12T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/hedge-funds-fail-to-flee-london-as-swiss-town-reveals-industry-wonder-bust.html
Nine years after  Man Group Plc (EMG) ’s
arrival put Pfaeffikon in the vanguard of Swiss efforts to make
the Alpine nation a haven for hedge funds, the offices the town
promoted for immigrating money managers are almost empty.  Pfaeffikon’s struggle to become a beneficiary of the
anticipated exodus from the higher taxes and greater regulation
that supposedly imperiled London as international city of choice
for making money out of money is revealing, according to Joe Seet, a senior partner at Sigma Partnership, a London-based
accounting and advisory firm. Traders “rely on being close to
where market knowledge is, and that’s London,” he said.  That’s a notion not even London Mayor  Boris Johnson  dared
to articulate when more than a year ago he said the U.K.
government’s plan for a 50 percent income tax may prompt as many
as 9,000 bankers to leave the city. The Financial Times nine
months later reported that one in four employees of  hedge funds 
was fleeing to Switzerland.  The latest figures show such predictions were about as
accurate as the AAA-ratings on so many collateralized debt
obligations that precipitated the collapse of credit markets and
the subsequent recession in 2008. London accounted for almost 70
percent of  Europe ’s $423 billion of hedge fund assets at the end
of 2010, compared with 5 percent for all of Switzerland -- data
that hasn’t changed much the past five years -- according to
EuroHedge, which has covered the industry since 1999.  Only New York ranks ahead of the British capital with about
$830 billion of hedge fund assets as of Dec. 31, compared with
$20 billion in  Switzerland , London-based EuroHedge reported.  Brevan Howard   Brevan Howard and BlueCrest Capital Management Ltd., two of
Europe’s three biggest hedge fund firms, have moved staff to
Geneva in the past year, including the companies’ co-founders.  “London will always be London,” said Regina Anhorn, who
helped write a report on Swiss hedge funds last September for
Zurich University’s Centre for Alternative Investments and Risk
Management. “Things aren’t where some people would have liked
them to be in Switzerland.”  In  Pfaeffikon  (pronounced Feffikon), two-thirds of the
lakeside village’s two-story “hedge-fund hotel” stands empty.
The town’s direct investments in hedge funds also have backfired
as debt markets started seizing up in 2007.  The community of 7,000 residents, 37 kilometers (23 miles)
southeast of Zurich, and four neighboring villages that comprise
Freienbach district in the canton of Schwyz lost about 30
percent of the 4.76 million Swiss francs ($5.4 million) that
they invested three years ago in hedge funds run by Horizon21, a
firm founded by Rainer-Marc Frey.  Bad Timing  “We chose the stupidest possible point in time for the
hedge-fund venture,” said Kurt Zurbuchen, the part-time mayor
of the  Freienbach  district. “We’re trying to attract other
industries to spread the risk.”  Cantons such as Schwyz and Zug have found low taxes aren’t
enough to lure hedge fund managers. Swiss corporate tax rates,
which include a nominal flat federal rate of 8.5 percent plus a
variable component set by individual cantons and municipalities,
are as high as 24.2 percent in Geneva, said Brice Thionnet, a
Swiss lawyer who specializes in corporate and tax structuring at
 Baker & McKenzie . That compares with a rate of 26 percent in the
U.K. and 35 percent in the U.S.  Schwyz is now targeting the biotechnology and medical
technology industries to diversify away from financial services,
said Urs Durrer, a former television executive hired in December
to boost the canton’s image as a business center.  Proman AG, an oil-products company, may move 150 staff from
Dusseldorf in  Germany  to expand its office in Wollerau, a
village next to Pfaeffikon, Durrer said. By contrast, Man Group,
the world’s largest publicly traded hedge fund manager with $69
billion of assets, has reduced the number of employees it has in
Pfaeffikon to 421 from a peak of about 500.  Change in Strategy  Man Group had a “big restructuring” in 2009, said Marc
Duckeck, a spokesman for the London-based company. “We
relocated a number of staff,” he said, without providing
details.  Switzerland has been unable to cut into London’s lead
because the British capital dominates trading in markets such as
foreign exchange and also provides the range of back-office
services that hedge fund managers depend on, said Marko Maslakovic, a senior manager in economic research at TheCityUK.  Hedge fund assets rose by about $61 billion in Britain
since the end of 2006, while assets roughly doubled in
Switzerland from just $9.9 billion in the same period, according
to figures compiled by EuroHedge.  “London offers a lot of advantages,” Maslakovic said.
“It’s the top center for cross-border financial services in the
world and that’s very important to hedge funds.”  Rich List   Six of the 10 wealthiest hedge-fund managers on the Sunday
Times’s so-called Rich List have London as their home base,
including CQS U.K. LLP’s Michael Hintze, Winton Capital
Management LLC’s David Harding and Odey Asset Management LLP’s
Crispin Odey, who oversee a combined $37.5 billion.  The U.K. newspaper’s list, which was published May 8, also
includes  Nathaniel Rothschild , who has his main residence in the
Swiss ski resort of Klosters; Brevan Howard co-founder  Alan Howard ; and BlueCrest Capital co-founder Michael Platt. Howard,
47, and Platt, 43, both moved to Geneva last year.  “Geneva, like Greenwich in  Connecticut , is very laid back,
very discreet and very wealthy, and a place where a 50-year-old
manager who is good at running a business ends up,” Sigma’s
Seet said.  Freienbach is the home of Martin Ebner, the Swiss financier
and activist shareholder. Ebner’s BZ Bank AG and Patinex AG are
based in the village of Wilen.  ‘Black Eye’  The Freienbach district made its money-losing investment in
the  Horizon21  funds in April 2008, said local councilor Claudia
Raeber.  “It was the first time we’d invested in a product like
this and it will be the last,” she said, adding that the
district withdrew from the funds in June 2009. “Taxpayers
really don’t appreciate it.”  The loss gave Pfaeffikon “a black eye,” said Zurbuchen,
who runs a consulting firm helping companies relocate to the
village. Municipal accounts were further stretched as corporate
 tax revenue  fell 72 percent to 5.2 million francs last year from
2007. The decline occurred as Schwyz lowered its  tax rate  by 5
percentage points to 11.8 percent in January 2010 to attract
companies.  Horizon21 was started by Frey after he sold RMF Investment
Group for $833 million to Man Group in 2002. Horizon21 closed
three funds of hedge funds with combined assets of $949 million
in 2009 after losses the previous year.  Lifestyle Choice  The firm re-branded itself 12 months ago as a private
investment office in Pfaeffikon, said Adrian Janser, head of
product development, who declined to comment further.  Former Horizon21 employees have started three funds that
work from  Pfaeffikon’s hotel , which opened in January. The
offices provide software and hardware systems to help run the
funds and tenants have access to a basement crèche.  For some, the lifestyle of Pfaeffikon, located about 70
miles from resorts such as  Davos  and Klosters, makes it
appealing.  “You can go cycling over lunch and after work,” said
Tilman Keese, 38, who co-founded Allmountain Capital AG after
working at Horizon21. “Other fund managers are here so you can
chat over coffee.”  Alegra Capital Ltd., which invests in asset-backed
securities, is considering moving to Pfaeffikon from Zurich,
according to Chief Executive Officer Daniel Riediker.  The “trickle” of hedge funds to Switzerland will continue,
said Glen Millar of Kinetic Partners in Geneva.  Geneva-Zurich Route  “If it’s for pure tax, then they go to Zug or Pfaeffikon,
and if it’s for quality of life, they will consider the Geneva-
Vaud axis, or Zurich,” he said. “But  London  won’t be
replaced.”  That’s good news for at least some Pfaeffikon residents,
who are concerned about rising rents and the loss of the
village’s Swiss identity.  “The hills where my kids learned to ski are all houses
now,” said 65-year-old Andreas Meyer. “They both moved away
because they can’t afford 12,000 francs a month for an apartment.
It’s crazy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net ;
Leigh Baldwin at   lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  