-- 
Egyptian Developers May Show Weak Results After Unrest, Deutsche Bank Says

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-05-12T07:36:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/egyptian-property-developers-may-report-weak-results-deutsche-bank-says.html
Egyptian property developers are
likely to report “weak” first-quarter earnings after
construction was halted during protests that ended president
 Hosni Mubarak ’s 30-year rule and the government challenged past
land purchases, Deutsche Bank AG said.  Egypt ’s biggest developers including  Talaat Moustafa Group (TMGH) ,
 Palm Hills Developments SAE (PHDC)  and  Six of October Development &
Investment (OCDI)  Co., or SODIC, will face a “challenging year” in
2011, analysts Athmane Benzerroug and Nabil Ahmed wrote in a
note to investors.  “We expect a 10 to 15 percent backlog cancellation and
zero pre-sales for 2011,” the analysts wrote. “From a
liquidity standpoint, Palm Hills appears the most vulnerable
while SODIC is most resilient given a solid balance sheet.”  The three developers face lawsuits alleging that they
illegally purchased public land from the government of ousted
leader Hosni Mubarak without a competitive bidding process.
Talaat Moustafa faces a May 24 hearing over its biggest land
asset, a 33 million-square-meter (355 million-square-foot) tract
on the outskirts of Cairo. A court decided in September that the
purchase should be annulled.  SODIC and  Palm Hills  are expected to show weak results
after completions were hurt by the construction delays. Talaat
Moustafa should record “decent deliveries” because of finished
properties it held before the delay. The company’s revenue from
hotels “will likely be severely affected,” the report said.  Deutsche Bank expects SODIC to record a loss of 13 million
pounds ($2.2 million) in the first quarter after construction
was halted for about three weeks and no land was sold to sub
developers. The company’s second quarter may show improvement on
higher deliveries of units, the report said.  Talaat Moustafa is expected to have a quarterly profit of
189 million pounds on higher recognition of sales.  Legal Challenges  Earnings at Palm Hills “remain secondary” as investors
“continue to focus on land litigation that has put the value of
Palm Hills in jeopardy,” the analysts said.  Although Palm Hills management contends that only around
3.5 million square-meters, or 9 percent, of the land bank is
under scrutiny, the analysts said “exposure could be
significantly higher, thus affecting the company’s cash flows.”  In addition to the political uncertainty and land disputes,
Egyptian developers are facing risks related to the execution of
projects, availability of financing, slower sales and weak
 consumer confidence .  Talaat Moustafa shares dropped 60 percent in the past 12
months, while Palm Hills slumped 72 percent. SODIC fell 38
percent in the past year compared with a 27 percent decline for
Egypt’s benchmark  EGX 30 Index. (EGX30)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 