-- 
Telmex Gains as Ruling Is Seen Hastening Resolution of Slim Pay-TV Dispute

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-05-12T20:25:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/telmex-court-ruling-to-hasten-resolution-of-pay-tv-dispute.html
Telefonos de Mexico SAB gained the
most in almost a year in Mexico City trading after a federal
court ruling that may open a new era of competition in the
country’s media industry.  The court ruled Telmex must receive an answer in 15 days on
its request for government permission to offer TV service. An
approval would allow Mexico City-based Telmex, controlled by
billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB, to compete with
 Grupo Televisa SA (TLEVICPO)  and other rivals that have captured market
share by bundling cable with phone and Internet.  The Communications and Transportation Ministry has the
option to deny or allow Telmex to offer video services, or grant
permission with conditions, the agency’s legal affairs chief,
Gerardo Sanchez Henkel, said yesterday in an interview broadcast
on Radio Formula after Telmex announced the ruling.  “This news is positive for Telmex, as it appears to be a
significant step toward obtaining the much-awaited license,”
Gregorio Tomassi, an analyst at Banco Santander SA in Mexico
City, said today in a research note. “These actions would
probably represent a new growth driver for Telmex.” He
maintained his “underperform” rating on the shares.  Telmex rose 53 centavos, or 5.1 percent, to 10.95 pesos at
4 p.m. New York time in  Mexico  City trading, the biggest gain
since May 31. The shares have climbed 9.4 percent this year.  Lost Lines  “This decision puts the ministry between a rock and a hard
place,” Jose Otero, an analyst at Signals Telecom Consulting,
said in a phone interview from Montevideo, Uruguay. “If its
answer is no, it will have to explain painstakingly what aspects
of the regulations Telmex hasn’t fulfilled, and it will have to
prove it.”  If the ministry allows Telmex to offer TV, there could be
legal repercussions over how it acquires content from
competitors, and smaller rivals might team up or begin offering
their own video services to compete, Otero said.  Telmex lost 29,000 lines last quarter for a total of 15.6
million as customers switched to its cable rivals. Telmex
controls about 80 percent of the nation’s fixed phone lines and
about 70 percent of Internet lines.  The company will await the ministry’s approval before it
starts offering a pay-TV plan, said an official who can’t be
named under company policy.  Chief Financial Officer Adolfo Cerezo said last month
Telmex has an option to buy a controlling stake in satellite
provider Dish Mexico if it gets approval for video service. The
company may also offer TV over its phone lines, he said.  Waiting for Years  Telmex has waited for a video license from the government
since 2006, when the communications ministry announced
regulations to allow companies to provide video, voice and
Internet services. In 2008, regulators issued rules to allow
consumers to switch telephone providers while keeping the same
phone number, and Telmex complied with the guidelines, a
requirement to get the video license.  Televisa has about 5 million pay-TV subscribers, including
about 3 million for its Sky satellite service and 2 million for
three cable operators. Dish Mexico, controlled by MVS
Comunicaciones SA and  EchoStar Corp. (SATS) , is the nation’s second-
biggest TV provider, with about 2.2 million users as of the end
of last year. The biggest individual cable company is Megacable
Holdings SAB, with 1.7 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  