-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Fall, Erasing 2011 Gain, on Global Growth Concern

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 
2011-05-12T22:42:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/emerging-market-stocks-decline-to-six-week-low-as-commodity-prices-slump.html
Emerging-market stocks declined,
erasing the benchmark index’s 2011 gain, as concern deepened
that the global economic expansion is slowing.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slid 1.6 percent to
1,147.58 at 4:30 p.m. in  New York , leaving it 0.3 percent lower
for the year. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  sank 2 percent, the
biggest loss since March 15, while the won weakened 0.9 percent
against the dollar.  Brazil ’s Bovespa index erased earlier losses
and climbed 0.4 percent after companies reported earnings
growth. Mexico’s IPC index fell 0.6 percent.  Global investors have tempered their optimism about the
world economy and plan to put more of their money in cash and
less in commodities over the next six months, a Bloomberg survey
found. China said it will raise banks’ reserve requirements by
0.5 percentage point in a bid to curb lending and tame
inflation, while a report showed European industrial production
unexpectedly declined in March.  “China is facing more interest-rate adjustments and that
could cascade to other markets,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief
market strategist at Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. in Manila.
“Commodity prices can’t be sustained at elevated levels because
it’s not backed by the global economic outlook.”  Malaysia’s ringgit tumbled 1 percent after commodities fell
earlier in the day.  Russia ’s Micex Index retreated 1.5 percent
while the ruble weakened 0.5 percent.  The MSCI index erased an advance this year that had sent
the gauge up as much as 4.8 percent earlier this month. Today,
561 stocks on the index declined as 221 rose. The 21-country
measure is valued at 11 times analysts’ 12-month earnings
estimates, down from 12 times at the beginning of the year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yield Spreads  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries narrowed eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 297 today, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global Index. The Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA Index of
credit-default swaps for emerging  Europe , the Middle East and
Africa rose 1 basis point to 189, according to data provider CMA
in  London .  Petroleo Brasileiro SA slid 0.7 percent after it said its
fuel distribution unit will cut gasoline prices by 6 percent as
the government battles to slow inflation. Petrochemical producer
Braskem SA rose 4 percent after the company said first-quarter
net-income increased 13-fold.  Chinese Stocks  The Shanghai Composite lost 1.4 percent before the
announcement on banks’ reserve requirements. Consumer prices
increased 5.3 percent in April, the statistics bureau reported
yesterday, exceeding the 5.2 percent median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg and topping the government’s
full-year target of 4 percent for a fourth straight month.  Jiangxi Copper Co.,  China ’s largest producer of the metal,
tumbled 3.5 percent while Korea Zinc Co. slid 5.7 percent in
 Seoul . OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas-export monopoly, retreated 3.1
percent in Moscow.  Forty percent of those surveyed in the Bloomberg Global
poll expect  oil prices  to fall in the next six months, the first
time respondents felt that way since the inception of this poll
in July 2009. Fewer than four in 10 of those surveyed described
the U.S. and global economies as improving, down from about 50
percent who felt that way back in January. Brazil and China
trailed the U.S. when survey participants were asked to name the
best countries for investment.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s biggest carmaker, fell 4.7
percent after its partner Beijing Automotive Industry Holding
Co. said auto sales in China may continue to grow slowly through
the second quarter before rebounding in the second half.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian C. Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  