-- 
English Soccer’s F.A. Hires Lawyer to Investigate FIFA Corruption Claims

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-12T22:01:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/english-soccer-s-f-a-hires-lawyer-to-investigate-fifa-corruption-claims.html
English soccer’s governing body has
hired a senior U.K. lawyer for its own inquiry into allegations
of improper conduct made by its former chairman against four
members of FIFA’s decision-making panel.  David Triesman  told a U.K. Parliament panel earlier this
week that the men on world soccer’s top committee engaged in
“improper and unethical” behavior by seeking favors in return
for their votes for  England  to stage the 2018  World Cup . Russia
defeated England and three others to win the December vote, with
the U.K. entry ousted first after getting just 2 of 22 votes.  The F.A., which is also cooperating with a FIFA inquiry
into the claims, has enlisted James Dingemans QC, to look into
the evidence behind Triesman’s statements and present a report
by May 27, four days before FIFA’s presidential elections. The
report will be made public.  “If Lord Triesman’s allegations can’t be supported then I
suppose they’d die a death,” F.A. Chairman David Bernstein told
reporters in  London . “Unsupported evidence doesn’t get
anybody very far.”  Triesman was forced to resign from his post after being
secretly recorded saying a joint Spanish-Portuguese 2018 bid had
colluded with  Qatar ’s offer for the 2022 World Cup to share
votes and that  Spain  would consider stepping down if Russia
helped it bribe referees at the 2010 World Cup. None of the
allegations were proven.  Improper Demands  Lawmakers trying to understand why England’s 18 million-
pound ($29.3 million) campaign, which received the highest
technical marks, yielded limited support from the 22 eligible
FIFA voters called Triesman to give evidence two days ago. He
told them that Jack Warner, a FIFA vice president from  Trinidad
& Tobago ,  Brazil ’s Ricardo Teixeira, Paraguay’s Nicolas Leoz and
Thailand’s Worawi Makudi made improper demands for their votes.
Makudi has yet to comment on the allegations; the others have
all denied the claims.  FIFA has opened its own inquiry into the allegations and
has asked the F.A. to supply any evidence it has. It’s also
written to the lawmakers asking them to supply information it
received from the Sunday Times newspaper that Qatar paid two
African committee members $1.5 million each for their votes in
its successful bid for the 2022 World Cup. Blatter said the
investigations must be completed before his June 1 presidential
battle with Mohamed Bin Hammam, the Qatari who heads soccer in
 Asia .  New Low  FIFA’s reputation in England fell to a new low following
the World Cup vote. A month before  Russia  and Qatar won, two
members of the  FIFA  panel were suspended after an investigation
into allegations over alleged vote selling. Bernstein said the
country may abstain from voting in the presidential election,
rather than endorse Blatter’s fourth term bid or choose Bin
Hammam.  “I don’t think an abstention would be pointless,” he
said. “I think there are three choices and abstention could end
up being a very credible choice. But it depends on what happens
over the next week and my colleagues views on it.”  He conceded that a vote for Blatter wouldn’t “go down very
well” with the English public.  The F.A. board will announce its intention on May 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 