-- 
EON Trading Expands Griffith’s Role, Promotes Laege to Board

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-05-12T08:44:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/eon-trading-expands-griffith-s-commercial-role-promotes-laege.html
EON Energy Trading SE expanded the
role of Chief Commercial Officer Gareth Griffiths and promoted
Egbert Laege to the board in charge of maximizing the value of
the company’s power plants.  Griffiths, 46, was appointed to a new wider role as chief
commercial officer for global merchant trading and origination,
the unit of  Germany ’s biggest utility said today in an e-mailed
statement. He will focus on expanding the Dusseldorf-based
company’s global commodities trading and develop EON’s
activities in the coal, oil and emissions markets.  “It’s about strengthening the focus of our commercial
trading activities, which will in turn support our ability to
grow the business both in Europe and globally,” EON Trading
Chief Executive Officer Tony Cocker said in an e-mail. “It’s
about being quicker to identify and capture new opportunities
resulting from the different market conditions that have emerged
over the last couple of years.”  EON’s  trading unit  yesterday announced a loss for the three
months through March after a profit a year earlier. The
proprietary trading division had a loss of 31 million euros ($44
million) in the quarter, compared with a 2-million euro loss a
year earlier, after it was “adversely affected by market
developments following the German government’s announcement of a
nuclear-power moratorium,” EON said in its first-quarter
earnings report.  Asset Optimization  The decision to reorganize was taken independently of the
trading loss, Jamee Majid, a company spokesman, said by phone.  Laege’s new role is as chief commercial officer for asset
optimization, which includes maximizing the value of the
company’s power and gas assets. EON lost 192 million euros on
optimization in the first quarter, compared with a 352 million-
euro profit in the same period last year. Laege was previously
director of dispatch and prompt trading at EON.  “In creating two distinct commercial functions, we have
positioned ourselves to better develop our global commodity
trading activities,” Cocker said in the statement. “We will
also develop a more agile organization that can respond faster
to changes in the dynamic markets in which we operate.”  EON integrated its regional trading offices in 2008 into
the new company led by Cocker. In the last 18 months, EON
increased its global coal trading activity, started trading
financial gas, power and carbon contracts in the U.S. and has
been active in U.S. and Asian oil markets, he said.  “The new merchant trading function will put us in a better
position to build on that platform and create more value, as
well as providing support for the EON Group’s ‘outside  Europe ’
activities,” Cocker said.  The company bought and sold more power and gas in the first
quarter while its emissions trading volume declined compared
with the year-earlier period. Electricity trading volume rose 48
percent to 531 terawatt-hours, while natural-gas trading more
than doubled to 630 terawatt-hours. Trading in emission
allowances fell 15 percent to 162 million metric tons, according
to yesterday’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  