-- 
EON, RWE Lose Money on Energy Trading as Fuel, Electricity Prices Jump

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-05-12T14:25:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/eon-rwe-lose-money-on-energy-trading-as-fuel-electricity-prices-jump.html
EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s biggest
utilities, lost money on energy trading in the first quarter as
commodity prices jumped because of unrest in the Middle East,
the earthquake in Japan and a halt at German reactors.  RWE’s Trading & Gas Midstream arm posted an operating loss
of 276 million euros ($391 million) compared with an operating
profit of 88 million euros a year earlier, it said today in an
earnings report.  EON’s trading unit  in Dusseldorf lost 223
million euros in the first three months, the company said
yesterday. It was the EON unit’s second quarterly loss since
operations began in 2008.  “A significant deterioration was experienced in the
performance of our trading business,” Essen-based RWE said in
its report. “Unexpected price fluctuations in the aftermath of
the events in  Japan  and North  Africa  were a factor.”  Uprisings in North African countries such as  Libya , holder
of the largest oil reserves in Africa, pushed crude prices to
their highest level since July 2008. German power contracts
surged in the second half of March as the government ordered a
shutdown of the country’s seven oldest reactors for a safety
review after the nuclear crisis in Japan.  “The more volatility the better, but what I don’t like is
the political activism” affecting the market, said Duco de
Vries, a  fund manager  at Crosscurve Capital Management BV in
Soest,  Netherlands . “That’s what you don’t like as a trader.”  Crude Benchmark Surges  Brent crude oil futures rose 24 percent from January
through March, its biggest quarterly gain since the second
quarter of 2009, to close at $117.36 a barrel on ICE Futures
 Europe  in London.  EON Energy Trading SE’s proprietary trading division lost
31 million euros in the quarter before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, compared with a loss of 2 million
euros a year earlier. The unit said it was “adversely
affected” by market developments after Germany’s nuclear
moratorium.  German 2012 power, the regional benchmark, rose 11 percent
in the first quarter and ended the period at a 19-month high of
59.75 euros a megawatt hour, according to broker prices on
Bloomberg. It was at 58.85 euros today.
     Vattenfall AB, the Nordic region’s biggest utility, earned
less from proprietary energy trading in the first quarter this
year than it did in 2010, Chief Executive Officer Oystein Loseth
said in an April 27 conference call.  Vattenfall’s proprietary trading contributed a net 50
million euros based on the mark-to-market value of transactions
in the first quarter, Loseth said. The Stockholm-based energy
trader declined to provide a comparative figure for the first
quarter of 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lars Paulsson in  London  at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  