-- 
Turkey’s $12 Billion Bosporus Bypass Speeds Oil Tankers: Freight Markets

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-05-12T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/erdogan-to-free-tankers-with-12-billion-canal-freight-markets.html
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s plan to divert tankers from the Bosporus to a new
canal may unclog one of the worst chokepoints for energy
carriers such as A.P. Moller-Maersk A/S of Denmark and  Greece ’s
 Tsakos Energy Navigation Ltd. (TNP)   It may also change the shape of oil shipping from Russia,
Ukraine,  Georgia  and  Kazakhstan  to the Mediterranean, diverting
business onto the world’s largest tankers from the smaller ships
that now transit the strait.  At the same time, the plan would generate a building
bonanza for Turkish real estate investors and developers,
including  Inanlar Insaat , Kiler Gayrimenkul Ortakligi AS and
 Agaoglu Group . They are jostling for a piece of what Erdogan
calls one of the biggest development projects in the world: the
construction of a new population center on the canal’s banks.  “We’re talking about building not just a canal, but a city
right next to Istanbul of three million people,” Serdar Inan,
chairman of Inanlar Insaat, said in an interview at the
company’s Istanbul offices. Erdogan has praised Inan’s offer to
spend $30 billion to construct the project; Inan predicted total
revenue from building it and nearby facilities will exceed $300
billion in 15 years.  Most of the money would be made from building, selling and
managing apartment buildings, hotels and other facilities on the
banks of the canal, Inan said. Erdogan said the  project  also
will include a new airport,  Turkey ’s largest, and two new
cities, one on each side of the Bosporus, to allow people to
move out of crowded, earthquake-prone parts of Istanbul.  Istanbul Canal  Kiler Holding AS, which opened Istanbul’s tallest building
this year and then sold shares in its real estate unit on April
20, applied for rights to the “Istanbul Canal” name within
five hours after Erdogan announced the plan. Billionaire
developer Ali Agaoglu, who’s erecting towers on London’s Canary
Wharf, also supports it.  “It’s not a crazy project,” Agaoglu said after Erdogan’s
April 27 announcement. “Turkey is strong enough to do this.”  To be sure, big-money plans have a history of falling
through in Turkey. Last year, the state got $15.9 billion in
bids from businessmen for the privatization of power grids, with
winners refusing comment on how they’d get the financing.  Two of them have fallen through in the past month: Aksu
Enerji & Ticaret AS failed to raise $56.1 million by its
deadline and MMEKA, controlled by Mehmet Kazanci and former
Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS chairman Mehmet Emin Karamehmet,
failed to come up with $1.2 billion.  Sultan’s Idea  It’s not the first time a Turkey canal project has been
discussed: Ottoman Sultan Suleiman the Magnificent explored
joining the  Black Sea  to the Gulf of Izmit in the 1500s, only to
abandon it as too expensive while the empire was dragged into
war. Former Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit announced a similar
plan for a “second Bosporus” in 1994 that went nowhere.  The success of Erdogan’s pledge to “end tanker traffic”
through the Bosporus hinges on overcoming the channel’s biggest
advantage: It’s almost free. The Montreux Treaty of 1936 limits
Turkey to charging carriers only for costs incurred when they
transit the Turkish Straits.  To make the Istanbul Canal commercially viable -- it will
cost at least $12 billion, Erdogan says -- builders will design
it for the world’s biggest tankers, which the Bosporus can’t
handle. Known as very large crude carriers, or VLCCs, they sit
as much as 23 meters (75 feet) deep when full of cargo.  Lower Costs  “We definitely hope this project becomes a reality,” said
Amit Agaelli, a manager in the ship-chartering unit of  Palmali
Holding Co. , owned by Turkish-Azeri billionaire Mubariz Mansimov
and one of the primary owner-operators of tankers through the
Bosporus. “Especially for VLCC owners, it lowers transportation
costs a lot, 20 to 25 percent, maybe more.”  About 8 percent of the price per barrel of oil is due to
transportation costs, according to the Robert S. Strauss Center
for International Law and Security at the  University of Texas  in
Austin.  VLCCs are most commonly used for oil deliveries between
continents, where they offer the greatest savings compared with
smaller vessels, according to Nikos Varvaropoulos, an official
at Optima Shipbrokers Ltd. in  Athens .  Bosporus delays rise in winter, when shorter days and poor
weather conditions constrain how many vessels can transit the
link between the Black Sea and the Mediterranean. An average of
848,000 barrels of crude a day were shipped from  Russia ’s Black
Sea port of Novorossiysk in 2010, according to loading data
gathered by Bloomberg.  More Economical  “If it happens, we will have to adjust like everyone
else,” said George Saroglou, chief operating officer of  Tsakos
Energy Shipping  in Athens. “It’s more economical to move 2
million barrels on a VLCC than splitting it into smaller
cargoes.”  Tsakos has 51 tankers, of which three are VLCCs; 11 of the
others regularly transit the Bosporus. Palmali sends about 200
vessels through the straits each year and 85 percent of them are
tankers, Agaelli said.  Building a canal that handles VLCCs could encourage oil
exporters from Russia that currently ship from northern ports to
“move some volumes to the southern route” through Turkish
waterways, said Henrik Ramskov, chief operating officer of
Maersk Tankers, which owns or operates more than 250 tankers.  The world’s largest VLCC operator is Mitsui O.S.K Lines
Ltd., according to  Clarkson Research , a unit of  Clarkson Plc (CKN) ,
the world’s biggest shipbroker. Second is Frontline Ltd., led by
Norway-born billionaire  John Fredriksen .  Russia-China  OAO Sovcomflot, Russia’s largest shipping company, signed
an agreement with China National Petroleum Corp. in November to
purchase its first pair of VLCCs for delivery in 2013.  Diverting shipping traffic to a new canal outside
Istanbul’s center would lessen the danger of an accident or
spill for the millions who live on the Bosporus’s shores.
According to the Turkish Coast Guard, 51,422 ships passed
through the Bosporus in 2009, 9,299 of them tankers. A total of
145 million tons of “dangerous cargo” slipped through the
waterway that divides a city of more than 13 million people.  Delays in crossing the Bosporus, which the U.S. Department
of Energy calls one of the world’s busiest and most difficult
“energy chokepoints,” cost transporters $1.4 billion a year,
Erdogan said.  “With the Istanbul Canal we’ll reduce tanker and cargo
traffic through the Bosporus to zero,” Erdogan said. He said
planning for the canal would take two years and it would be
opened by the 100th anniversary of the Turkish Republic in 2023.  Black Sea  Handling the biggest tankers would require a
reconfiguration of Black Sea ports, said Luis Mateus, an analyst
at Riverlake Shipping SA in Geneva. The Sheskharis Oil Harbor at
the port of Novorossiysk, the main Russian export facility for
Urals crude in the Black Sea, has a draft of 19 meters, meaning
that VLCCs wouldn’t be able to load in full there yet, according
to data provider IHS Inc. in Englewood,  Colorado .  The Suez, which would link Russian supplies to  Asia , also
can’t handle VLCCs when they are fully loaded, said Clarkson
Research Managing Director Martin Stopford.  “The Turkish government cannot force shippers to use a new
canal, and it’s not rational to use it when you have the right
to use an international strait for free,” said Savas
Inandioglu, an Istanbul-based maritime lawyer at the  Topdemir
Inandioglu Komuc  law office.  Turkey would consider raising Bosporus fees, Transportation
Minister Habib Soluk said May 5, adding that they had been
“discounted” since 1980. Foreign Ministry spokesman Selcuk
Unal said all aspects of the plan would be discussed with
Montreux Convention signatories during the planning process.  “From a legal perspective, this plan can only be achieved
through commercial terms,” said  Fehmi Ulgener , an attorney
whose clients include the Turkish Chamber of Shipping. “You
have to make passage through the canal more attractive than
through the Bosporus. You can’t close the Bosporus because of
obligations under international law.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net 
Alaric Nightingale in  London  at 
 Anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  