-- 
Eric Sprott Says Banks Still Have Too Much Leverage on Balance Sheets

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   K e l l y   B i t
-- 
2011-05-12T21:00:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/eric-sprott-says-banks-still-have-too-much-leverage-on-balance-sheets.html
Eric Sprott , the Canadian  money
manager  who in 2008 predicted banking stocks would collapse,
said U.S. savers will eventually pull their money out of banks
that are carrying too much leverage on their balance sheets.  Banks are levered 20 to 1 and their portfolios are mainly
comprised of  government bonds  and mortgages, the founder of
Sprott Asset Management Inc., said today at the SALT, or
SkyBridge Alternatives, Conference in Las Vegas.  “ House prices  keep going down, the number of people under
water keeps getting worse,” said Sprott, 66, who is chief
executive officer of the Toronto-based firm. “That leverage is
going to work massively against anybody whose lender is in that
area. The dominoes are starting to fall.”  Sprott said the “ultimate event” is that savers will take
their money out of banks and invest in precious metals such as
gold, which he says is now the world’s reserve currency. Sprott,
who earlier this month predicted gold may climb to $2,000 an
ounce before year’s end, said he started buying the metal in
2000.  “If you’re in Ireland today, you don’t have any money in
banks, particularly if you’re non-Irish," he said. "If you’re in
 Greece  you’re taking your money out. In Portugal you probably
have concerns. If you have a fear of the banking system, you go
to things like gold.”  Sprott, whose hedge funds and mutual funds mostly invest in
energy and metals, said silver was “manipulated down” last
week after it fell $6 in 13 minutes on a Sunday evening when
trading was light.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  