-- 
Merkel’s FDP Allies Bash Euro Bailouts

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-05-12T22:00:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/merkel-s-fdp-allies-bash-euro-bailouts.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
Free Democratic allies are threatening to impose more conditions
on future euro-area bailouts as they seek to tap voter anger
over granting aid to reverse the party’s collapse in support.  Delegates at a party convention beginning today in the
Baltic Sea port of Rostock will debate a motion on the euro that
says “in no case whatsoever” can  Germany  assume the debts of
other countries and demands investors pay part of the bill for
any aid given to indebted states. A separate motion urges debt
offenders to be ejected from the euro area.  “We’re at a crossroads,”  Otto Fricke , the FDP’s budget
spokesman in parliament, said in an interview. “We need to show
we’re the other voice in the coalition and that may mean taking
a tougher stance on the debt crisis where necessary.”  Merkel’s coalition partner’s threat to disrupt bailouts
adds to her dilemma as she confronts a resurgence of the debt
crisis where it started,  Greece . Just as she did a year ago,
Merkel is again holding out against aiding Greece, leaving a
policy void that the Free Democrats are looking to exploit.  Greece’s two-year yield notes rose to a record 26.77
percent yesterday, as Merkel and fellow European leaders failed
to allay concern that the Greek government will have to
restructure its debt. The yield later fell 49 basis points to
24.80 percent.  “A good many Free Democrats share the view in private that
something is going badly wrong in solving this crisis, that we
are heading full speed toward creating a permanent system of
transferring aid to the currency area’s periphery,” said  Frank Schaeffler , an FDP lawmaker who last year called for Greece to
sell its islands to cut debt. “A year ago I was isolated in the
party, but that’s no longer the case.”  ‘Short Notice’  Schaeffler heads a group of lawmakers who will ask the
party’s 662 delegates in Rostock to support a motion calling for
the ejection of states from the euro “at short notice” in
cases of rule breaking. While the motion has little chance of
being passed, “that doesn’t mean we won’t be heard,” he said.  Schaeffler’s supporters may be tapping a vein of resentment
in Germany. Twenty percent of Germans view Merkel’s decision to
help Greece in May 2010 as “right,” according to a poll
published May 8 by consumer survey company GfK SE. Another 47
percent of respondents said the decision was “wrong,”
suggesting that Merkel’s coalition may struggle to justify
potential new aid.  The Free Democrats, who won a record 14.6 percent of the
vote in the September 2009 federal election, have seen their
ratings tumble  to historic lows  amid bickering over policy, an
unpopular leadership and failure to deliver their core policy of
tax cuts.  Merkel Frustrated  The collapse of the FDP threatens to deprive Merkel of a
viable coalition partner, frustrating any desire she may have to
run for a third term in 2013. The FDP’s poor showing in March
state elections contributed to Merkel’s Christian Democrats
losing their 58-year grip on Baden-Wuerttemberg, home to Daimler
AG, Porsche SE and SAP AG.  Philipp Roesler, 38, who is standing for election as FDP
chairman in Rostock, has been charged with reviving party
fortunes after it suffered successive routs in the four state
elections so far this year. A fifth, in the city-state of
Bremen, is scheduled for May 22.  Roesler, a doctor by training who served as health minister
before replacing Rainer Bruederle as economy minister yesterday,
has the backing of senior party members to take over the FDP
helm from Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle . Westerwelle said
April 3 that he wouldn’t stand for re-election as party leader
after 10 years in the post. He intends to stay on as foreign
minister.  Poll Ratings  The change in personnel has so far failed to lift the
party’s poll ratings. Support for the FDP was 4 percent, below
the 5 percent threshold for seats in parliament for the sixth
consecutive week, a Forsa poll showed on May 11. While Merkel’s
CDU remained the strongest party with 31 percent backing, the
ruling coalition trails the opposition  Social Democrats  and
Greens by 35 percent to 48 percent.  The party of Hans-Dietrich Genscher, the foreign minister
who oversaw German reunification in 1990 after the fall of the
 Berlin Wall , “won’t garner points by fanning anti-euro
sentiment,” said Hans-Juergen Hoffmann, head of the Psephos
polling company.  “That’s not credible from a party that has so long been an
advocate of European unity,” Hoffmann said by phone. “The FDP
is in deep trouble.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Rostock, Germany at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  