-- 
Test for Low-Level Brain Activity May Aid in Next Schiavo Case

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-05-12T18:58:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/test-for-low-level-brain-activity-may-aid-in-next-schiavo-case.html
Doctors may be able to tell whether a
patient is in a vegetative or minimally conscious state by
tracking signals on a path through the brain, a study said.  The findings could lead to a new diagnostic tool to help
doctors with life-support decisions in cases such as that of
Terri Schiavo, the Florida woman who was in a vegetative state
for 15 years before a court ordered her feeding tube removed.
The study, by researchers from the University of Liege in
Belgium, is published in the journal  Science .  It can be difficult to differentiate between people in a
vegetative state, in which patients lack cognitive function
though display forms of wakefulness, and a less serious
impairment that leaves patients minimally conscious yet often
able to communicate in some form. This medical dilemma led to a
legal battle in the case of Schiavo, who fell into a coma in
1990 and died in 2005.  “This is one step further in understanding the brain
function in these patients, and it gets closer to a diagnostic
tool,” said  Melanie Boly , the study’s first author and a post-
doctoral researcher at the Coma Science Group at the University
of Liege in  Belgium , in a telephone interview. “This may be
convenient to use clinically because you can bring the technique
to the patient’s bedside.”  More study with more patients will be required to determine
whether the method can be used as a diagnostic measure, said
 Nicholas Schiff , a professor of neurology and neuroscience at
Weill Cornell Medical College in New York. Diagnostic measures
have a higher standard of proof than this study demonstrates, he
said.  Insight Not Diagnostic  “It’s really a kind of an insight,” said Schiff in a
telephone interview. “In patients who are clearly vegetative or
clearly minimally conscious, do you see a biological
distinction?”  The researchers used  electroencephalogram  recordings of
brain activity from 22 healthy volunteers, 8 patients in
vegetative states and 13 in minimally conscious states to model
brain activity. The EEG recordings were taken while subjects
listened to tones. They were then placed in a mathematical model
to determine what the recordings meant.  Most people’s brains process sounds by sending signals
“up” to the front of the brain, in the parietal and frontal
cortex, to locate the type of sound, identify it, and make
decisions. The signal is then sent down to the temporal cortex,
in a feedback loop. The model showed vegetative state patients
didn’t complete the loop. The healthy subjects and minimally
conscious patients did.  “What it’s saying, in simpler terms, is that these
patients had a more profoundly impaired frontal part of their
brain,” Schiff said. “It’s an elegant, nice study, and it does
comport nicely with a lot of other work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 