-- 
EU Backs Emergency Travel Curbs as Denmark Puts Up Controls

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-05-12T14:40:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/eu-backs-emergency-travel-curbs-as-denmark-puts-up-controls-2-.html
European Union governments backed
plans to strengthen emergency restrictions on passport-free
travel, as  Denmark  became the latest country to challenge the
border-free system.  Responding to an influx of refugees from the North African
uprisings, EU interior ministers agreed to grant governments
greater leeway to reintroduce passport checks temporarily in
 Europe ’s 25-nation free-travel zone.  Italy was the first port of call for at least 30,000
refugees from the revolution in  Tunisia  and war in  Libya ,
leading to inner-EU tensions when it tried to offload some of
them to other countries in Europe.  Europe will work on “better guidelines” so that “under
very clearly defined conditions there can be a possibility to
temporarily reinstall border controls,” EU Home Affairs
Commissioner Cecilia Malmstroem told reporters after the
ministers met in Brussels today.  Denmark punched another hole in the system yesterday by
announcing plans to restart checks on goods and merchandise at
its frontiers in order to clamp down on the smuggling of drugs
and weapons.  The  European Commission , the Brussels-based enforcer of EU
law, said it would review the legality of the curbs. Denmark
said it won’t force travelers to show passports at its internal
European borders.  Customs Controls  “It is OK to have customs controls,” Danish Integration
Minister Soeren Pind said. “What is important is whether or not
you have passport and person controls, but we are not going to
establish that.”  Members of the  European Parliament  denounced Denmark for
chipping away at the EU’s core liberties.  Germany , which shares
land and sea borders with Denmark, was taken by surprise by the
Danish decision to inspect travelers at the frontier.  “We weren’t that excited to hear that Denmark was going to
put border posts back up,” German Interior Minister  Hans-Peter Friedrich  said, adding that he hoped the controls would be in
place for a “not very extensive time period.”  Twenty-two EU countries and three non-EU countries form the
 passport-free zone , making travel between them like trips
between U.S. states. Five EU countries are outside of the zone:
Britain, Ireland,  Romania , Bulgaria and Cyprus.  No ‘Chain Reaction’  New rules will spell out exceptions to the no-passport
policy while also preventing a “chain reaction” of border
closings after one country imposes restrictions, said Hungarian
Interior Minister Sandor Pinter, who chaired the meeting. No
timetable was set for revamping the system.  Internal borders were opened in 1995 with allowances for
the reimposition of passport checks for up to 30 days in
emergencies. Germany, for example, denied entry to suspected
soccer hooligans when it hosted the  World Cup  in 2006.  “I say a completely clear yes to border controls for
particular events but a clear no to the general closing of
borders,” Austrian Interior Minister Johanna Mikl-Leitner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  