-- 
EU Should Outline Plan for Importing Carbon Offsets, CDC Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-05-12T12:36:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/eu-should-outline-plan-for-importing-carbon-offsets-cdc-says.html
The European Union should explain how
it may strike agreements to import emission offsets from
developing nations to ensure supply through 2020 in the world’s
largest carbon market, said CDC Climat.  Investors need more information to help them choose
developing-nations projects that will be accepted in the EU,
said Pierre Ducret, chairman and chief executive officer of CDC
Climat. CDC is a climate-protection unit set up near Paris in
February 2010 by Caisse des Depots et Consignations, the French
state-owned bank.  “It’s important for the EU to elaborate its policies in
relation to bilateral agreements as soon as possible,” Ducret
said yesterday in a telephone interview. CDC Climat is seeking
more clarity on whether credits from projects in Tunisia and
 Morocco , for example, will be eligible in the EU carbon market
beyond 2012, Ducret said. “We don’t have a lot of information
on the EU’s process for striking international agreements.”  The EU said it would strike bilateral agreements with
nations in the absence of an international climate-protection
deal to extend or replace the 1997  Kyoto Protocol , whose targets
run through 2012. Proparco, the French development financier,
today awarded CDC Climat two mandates to find credits totaling
30 million euros ($42 million). Proparco receives a 25 percent
share in CDC Climat Asset Management in a partnership agreement,
according to an e-mailed statement.  The mandates, 15 million euros in each the Mediterranean
and Sub-Saharan Africa regions, ought to be able to acquire
credits for the equivalent of 3.3 million tons of carbon
dioxide, CDC and Proparco said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  