-- 
Leucadia Said to Join Centerbridge in Bid for Citigroup Consumer-Loan Unit

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-05-12T14:59:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/leucadia-said-to-join-centerbridge-in-bid-for-citigroup-consumer-loan-unit.html
Leucadia National Corp. (LUK) , an investor
in mortgages, mining and vineyards, has teamed with Centerbridge
Capital Partners LLC to bid for  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s consumer-
lending unit, two people familiar with the matter said.  The two firms, both based in New York, are among three
groups still left in the bidding process for the CitiFinancial
unit, according to the people, who didn’t want to be named
because the talks are private. The groups are conducting due
diligence and there is no deadline for a new round of bids, one
of the people said.  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit tagged the
unit for sale in the wake of the bank’s $45 billion bailout in
2008. He renamed it OneMain in December and began an auction
process this year. Leucadia’s investments include a mortgage
joint venture with  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., a
28 percent stake in  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , a timber company in
Idaho and a casino in Biloxi, Mississippi.  “They don’t hesitate to invest in assets that require them
to get their hands dirty,” said Glenn Tongue, general partner
with T2 Partners LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that owns
shares in both Leucadia and Citigroup. “They generally take
unconventional positions that make them look like contrarians
when they take them, but they generally have the last laugh.”  Laura Ulbrandt, a spokeswoman for Leucadia, declined to
comment. Jeffrey Aronson, managing partner of Centerbridge, also
declined to comment.  Auto Repairs  The Citigroup unit lends money for purposes including auto
repairs and remodeling kitchens, according to its  website .
Overall pretax losses since the second quarter of 2009 are about
$1.3 billion, according to a bank presentation. Net of
liabilities, Citigroup has the value of the business on its
books at about $2 billion, people with knowledge of the bidding
process said in March.  Leucadia is run by Salt Lake City-based CEO Ian Cumming and
Joseph Steinberg, who have also invested the firm’s money in
mining interests in western  Australia  and vineyards in the  Napa
Valley  in California. The company reported a $10.5 million
profit in the first quarter, compared with $191.5 million in the
same period last year, and has $9.2 billion in assets. Shares
have gained 25 percent this year through yesterday.  In December 2009, the firm was part of a joint venture with
Berkshire Hathaway that bought the servicing and mortgage-
lending business of bankrupt Capmark Financial Group Inc.
Leucadia and Berkshire also invested together in Finova Group
Inc. in 2001.  ‘Bottom Feeders’  “They’re much more bottom feeders than Buffett,” said
 Jeff Matthews , author of “Secrets in Plain Sight: Business and
Investing Secrets of Warren Buffett.” “They tend to get
involved when things are really cheap and messy.”  Leucadia’s competitors for the Citigroup business include a
group comprised of Brysam Global Partners LP, Blackstone Group
LP,  Carlyle Group  and  Thomas H. Lee Partners , the people said.
 Wilbur Ross , the billionaire investor, has withdrawn from this
group, he said in an e-mail. He declined to elaborate.  Another group includes private-equity firms Apollo
Management LP and J.C. Flowers & Co., the people said.  Citigroup rejected a bid made last month by Cerberus
Capital Management LP, the  New York  hedge-fund and buyout firm
led by founder  Stephen Feinberg , the people said. John Dillard,
a spokesman for Cerberus, declined to comment.  A group that included Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC and
Toronto-based Onex Corp. was also rejected, the people said. Tom Franco, a spokesman for Clayton Dubilier & Rice, declined to
comment. Andrea Daly, Onex’s general counsel, didn’t return
phone calls requesting comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 