-- 
European Coal Prices Fall as Energy Investors Sell to Cut Risk

-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 
2011-05-12T10:28:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/european-coal-prices-retreat-1-for-a-third-consecutive-decline.html
European coal derivatives declined
for a third consecutive day as investors sold the commodity to
reduce risk after oil’s 15 percent drop this month.  Oil was 1.4 percent lower by 5:38 a.m. in  New York  after
the  International Energy Agency  trimmed its 2011 global oil
demand forecast for the first time as this year’s price rally
begins to weigh on consumption. The price also fell on signs
this month of economic weakness, including a surprise increase
in U.S. jobless benefit applications and slower German factory
orders.  “It’s the energy complex,”  Daniel Brebner , a London-based
analyst with Deutsche Bank AG, said by phone. “The oil market
has been under huge pressure and investors in other commodity
markets are looking to reduce risks and that’s impacting the
coal market.”  Coal for delivery to Amsterdam, Rotterdam or Antwerp with
settlement next year retreated 75 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $127
a metric ton by 10:36 a.m. in  London . A close at that level
would be the lowest since March 11. The contract has gained 21
percent in the past 12 months  The data are drawn from information supplied by ICAP Plc,
 GFI Group Inc. (GFIG) , Spectron Group Ltd., Credit Suisse Group AG, IHS
McCloskey, Bloomberg, Tradition Financial Services and Tullett
Prebon Plc.  Profit from running coal-fired  power plants  for next month,
the so-called clean-dark spread, is about 6.21 euros ($8.80) a
megawatt-hour, compared with 8.62 euros from burning natural
gas, Bloomberg data showed. The calculation uses electricity
prices in Germany and takes emissions costs into account.  Cost Advantage  In Southeast Asia, coal will be the “fuel of choice” for
power plant developers as the region’s demand for electricity
increases, Wood Mackenzie Research Consultancy said today.  “Power-plant economics still suggest that coal has a
significant cost advantage and will emerge as the dominant fuel
in the region’s power generation,” Graham Tyler, the Singapore-
based head of  Southeast Asia  Gas and Power Service at Wood
Mackenzie, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alistair Holloway in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  