-- 
Europe’s Donor Nations Demand Tougher Greece Measures to Justify Extra Aid

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-05-12T11:42:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/europe-s-donor-nations-demand-tougher-greece-measures-to-justify-extra-aid.html
Europe ’s donor nations said Greece
will need to meet tougher conditions than last year to win new
aid that would avert a debt restructuring and cover almost 30
billion euros ($42 billion) of financing needs next year.  Euro-region finance ministers will meet in Brussels on May
16 to discuss more support for Greece beyond the 110 billion-
euro rescue granted a year ago, Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group, said today in Mainz,  Germany . The
yield on Greece’s 10-year bond has more than doubled since the
bailout to 15.6 percent, complicating its return to market.  “The Greek adjustment program hasn’t brought all the
results we had expected,” Juncker said. ‘‘This program has to
be bolstered in coming weeks so that Greece can return one day
to financial markets, which Greece with certainty won’t be able
to do in 2012.”  Politicians are struggling to convince investors that
that 256 billion euros in aid to Greece, Ireland and Portugal
will be enough to stamp out Europe’s debt crisis and prevent the
euro region’s first restructuring. The  International Monetary
Fund  said in a report today there is risk of contagion to the
countries of eastern Europe.  Under the original bailout plan, Greece was due to sell 27
billion euros of bonds next year and a similar amount in 2013.
Greece’s surging borrowing costs prompted a surge in bets the
country would be forced to restructure its 330 billion euros in
debt. The cost of insuring Greek bonds against default reached a
record 1,371 basis points on May 9.  ‘Clear Conditions’  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government, the largest
contributor to the Greek bailout, is now trying to tamp down
expectations of a default after weeks of comments by German
lawmakers, including members of her coalition, about the
possibility of restructuring.  “If it turns out that Greece can’t return to the financial
markets on the timeline laid out last year, then we have to talk
about what additional measures Greece, first and foremost, can
take,” Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers in
Berlin today. “We won’t be able to agree to additional measures
without clear conditions.”  Finland is insisting that any new aid packages for EU
countries require the recipient to put up collateral for the
loans.  ‘Huge Mistake’  Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann 
said, “There is no other solution” to more aid. “A Greek
restructuring would be a “huge mistake. The losses in many
areas would be too high and could provoke a contagion impact.”  European banks have $130 billion in exposure to Greece,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG strategist  Andrew Garthwaite .  After more than a year of austerity, which included higher
taxes and cuts in wages and pensions,  Greece ’s budget deficit is
still at 10.5 percent of gross domestic product, more than three
times the EU limit. Its debt is rising and set to peak at 159
percent of GDP next year. Popular and political opposition to
more cutbacks is growing, with unions holding their second
general strike of the year yesterday to oppose current plans,
which include selling off 50 billion euros of state assets.  Risk Rising  The talk of more aid has done little to convince investors
that Greece can avoid becoming the first euro-region country to
restructure debt. Greek two-year bonds yield 25.2 percent,
almost 10 percentage points more than its 10-year bonds,
indicating investors perceive more risk from lending to Greece
for two years rather than for a decade.  “The debt levels have reached proportions which will never
be financeable on the markets,” a team of Commerzbank AG
strategists led by  Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of currency strategy
in  Frankfurt , wrote yesterday in an investor report. “A further
top up of the rescue packet for Greece is not going to cause
risk premiums to fall.”  The German parliament’s budget committee yesterday also
approved the country’s contribution to  Portugal ’s 78 billion-
euro bailout. The Finnish government, which had threatened to
try to block aid to Portugal, agreed late yesterday to support
the plan, removing one of the final road blocks to freeing up
the funds.  EU finance ministers will meet in Brussels on May 17 to
give final approval to the aid package so that Portugal can
receive its first payment before its faces a 4.9 billion-euro
bond redemption next month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Mainz, Germany, at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  