-- 
Euro Slightly Below Fair Value Versus Greenback After Tumble, Sinche Says

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-05-12T17:30:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/euro-slightly-below-fair-value-versus-greenback-after-tumble-sinche-says.html
The euro is trading slightly below
fair value for the first time since April 11 against the dollar,
according to RBS Securities Inc.’s Robert Sinche.  The 17-nation currency has tumbled 4 percent against the
dollar since May 4, the day before the  European Central Bank 
held its main refinancing rate at 1.25 percent and ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  refrained from using the phrase “strong
vigilance” on inflation, which might have signaled a June boost
in borrowing costs.  “The euro from a short-term fundamental basis is a little
below fair value, so it looks like a lot of the excesses have
been worked off,” said Sinche, global head of currency strategy
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at the unit of Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc, in a phone interview. “We haven’t had much of an
improvement at all in U.S. interest-rate expectations.”  Europe ’s currency appreciated 0.4 percent to $1.4253 at
1:20 p.m. in  New York , from $1.4192 yesterday. It touched
$1.4940 on May 4, the highest level since December 2009.  “The recent correction in the euro-dollar appears to be
more heavily driven by the euro than the dollar and partially
reflects a market that, finally, got excessively long and
bullish on the single currency,” Sinche wrote today in a
report. A long is a bet an asset will gain in value.  The  Federal Reserve  left its target rate for overnight
lending between banks at zero to 0.25 percent on April 27, where
it has been since December 2008, and retained a pledge in place
since March 2009 to keep it “exceptionally low” for an
“extended period.”  Euro in 2011  The euro has dropped 1.7 percent in the past week,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a
measure of 10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar has gained
0.6 percent.  “While the undervaluation is not extreme enough to signal
a euro-dollar ‘buy’ signal, it does suggest that we would be
very reluctant to be selling euro-dollar at current levels,”
Sinche wrote today in the report.  RBS’s calculation of fair value is based on the difference
between U.S. and European interest rates, the TED spread,
five-year credit-default swaps tied to  Spain  and appetite for
risk as measured by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according
to Sinche.  The TED spread, the difference between what banks and the
U.S. government pay to borrow for three months and a gauge of
risk, narrowed today to 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage
point, after touching 26 basis points on May 6, the widest since
August 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  