-- 
Euro-Region Industrial Output Unexpectedly Declines, Led by Capital Goods

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-05-12T09:37:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/euro-region-industrial-output-unexpectedly-declines-led-by-capital-goods.html
European industrial production
unexpectedly declined in March, led by a drop in output of
capital goods such as machines.  Production in the 17-member euro area slipped 0.2 percent
from February, when it advanced 0.6 percent, the European
Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg said today. Economists
had forecast a gain of 0.3 percent, the median of 25 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey showed. Production rose 5.3 from
March 2010 after increasing an annual 7.7 percent in February.  European manufacturers have fueled the region’s economic
recovery as companies boost spending and hiring to meet global
export demand, helping shield the economy from the impact of a
spreading debt crisis.  Continental AG (CON) ,  Europe ’s second-largest
auto-parts maker, on May 5 reported its highest profit in more
than three years and  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s biggest engineering
company, earlier this month forecast surging full-year profit.  “The near-term outlook for industrial production remains
fairly bright,” said Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING
Group in Amsterdam. Output “is set to expand further in the
current quarter. But the combination of high  oil prices , a
strong euro and the softening in world trade momentum makes us
more cautious about industry prospects.”  The euro extended its decline after the data were released,
trading at $1.4183 at 11:23 a.m. in Brussels, down 0.1 percent.  German Growth  Euro-region growth probably accelerated to 0.6 percent in
the first quarter from 0.3 percent in the previous three months,
a Bloomberg survey shows. That would be the fastest pace since
the second quarter of 2010. The statistics office is scheduled
to release the report tomorrow at 11 a.m.  The European Commission will also publish its latest
projections for inflation and economic growth tomorrow.  In  Germany , which has powered European growth, industrial
output rose 0.4 percent in March from the previous month, when
it gained 1.6 percent, today’s report showed. In  France ,
production slipped 0.9 percent. It also declined in Ireland,
 Greece  and  Spain , the statistics office said.  Euro-region companies have relied on export demand to
bolster sales as tougher austerity measures at home eroded
consumers’ willingness to spend. Siemens on May 4 forecast full-
year profit to jump at least 75 percent, more than previously
projected, after orders in India and  China  surged 58 percent and
15 percent respectively in the quarter ended March 31. Emerging-
market orders rose 52 percent, the Munich-based company said.  Record Profit  Energy production dropped 0.7 percent from February, when
it slipped 0.2 percent, today’s report showed. Output of
intermediate goods remained unchanged and production of capital
goods fell 0.9 percent. Output of non-durable  consumer goods 
declined 0.7 percent from the previous month.  Continental, based in Hanover, Germany, said on May 5 that
first-quarter sales rose 23 percent as a global recovery fueled
demand for tires and car components. Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG, the world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles , last week
reported record profit per car on surging orders.  The euro-region economy may struggle to gather strength as
rising energy costs threaten to hurt earnings and sap household
demand. European economic confidence weakened in April and
German executives also grew less optimistic. BASF SE, the
world’s largest chemical maker, is among companies that raised
prices to offset spiraling raw-material costs.  While European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
has signaled concern about surging costs feeding into wage
demands and sparking more persistent inflation, the central bank
last week kept borrowing costs at 1.25 percent. Trichet said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television on May 6 that policy
makers remain “extremely alert” on developments.  “It’s clear that the risks to the inflation outlook have
shifted to the upside,” ECB council member Luc Coene said at a
conference in Brussels yesterday. “The Governing Council has
shown that it will do whatever is necessary to deliver  price
stability .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  