-- 
European Stocks Drop as Commodities Extend Rout; BHP Retreats

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-05-12T15:43:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/european-stock-futures-drop-following-commodities-rout-bhp-rio-may-fall.html
European stocks fell, sending the
benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index down for the first time in
three days, led by a selloff in metal and oil producers as
commodities extended yesterday’s rout.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto  Group each lost more than 1
percent after copper slumped to a five-month low yesterday.
Insurers declined as companies from  Allianz SE (ALV)  to Aegon NA
reported earnings.  Thales SA (HO)  dropped 2.7 percent on a report
that the company may make a cash contribution as part of an
asset swap with Safran SA.  The Stoxx 600 retreated 0.8 percent to 281.53 at the 4:30
p.m. close in  London  for the biggest drop in a week.  “It’s a pretty tense trading session today with European
markets under pressure after a weak Asian market and forced
selling in commodities,” said Lex van Dam, a London-based  fund
manager  at Hampstead Capital LLP, which oversees $500 million.
“Asian markets have been trading badly for the last six months
and it feels that this might be spreading to  Europe .”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index extended yesterday’s selloff in
the U.S., slipping 1.6 percent today. The benchmark gauge has
climbed 3.1 percent over the last six months, while the Stoxx
600 has risen 8.5 in dollar terms.  Commodities fell for a second day as investors speculated
that  China  will raise  interest rates  to contain inflation,
curbing demand for raw materials. The People’s Bank of China
today raised its lenders’ reserve requirements for the fifth
time this year to restrain prices.  European Stock Markets  National benchmark indexes declined in every western
European markets except Iceland today.  France ’s CAC 40 Index
dropped 0.9 percent, the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index slid 0.6 percent
and  Germany ’s DAX Index fell 0.7 percent. Norway’s OBX Index
retreated 1.1 percent after the country’s central bank raised
interest rates.  Figures from the European Union today showed industrial
production unexpectedly declined in March, led by a drop in
output of capital goods. Production in the 17-member euro area
slipped 0.2 percent from February, when it advanced 0.6 percent.
Economists had forecast a gain of 0.3 percent.  BHP, the world’s largest mining company by market value,
fell 1.9 percent to 2,361 pence. Rio Tinto, the third biggest,
also slid 1.7 percent to 4,115 pence.  Shell,  Crude Oil   Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  paced energy shares lower, losing 1.5
percent to 2,172 pence after crude oil plunged yesterday after
the U.S. Energy Department reported a surge in stockpiles last
week.  Thirty-two companies on the Stoxx 600 were scheduled to
report results today. Of the 277 companies in the gauge that
have reported earnings since April 11, 58 percent have beaten
analyst forecasts for per-share profit, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 72 percent of U.S.
companies in the same period.  Allianz, Europe’s biggest insurer, slid 1.4 percent to
100.20 euros after posting a 45 percent drop in first-quarter
net income to 857 million euros ($1.2 billion) on natural-
disaster claims and lower investment gains.  Operating profit at the property and casualty unit,
Allianz’s most important in terms of earnings, dropped 6.9
percent to 663 million euros. The company on May 4 predicted
that it will face claims of about 320 million euros from the
earthquake and subsequent tsunami in  Japan .  Aegon, Zurich Financial  Aegon sank 5.7 percent to 5.07 euros after the Dutch
insurer reported a 12 percent drop in first-quarter profit to
327 million euros as it posted lower investment gains. Earnings
missed the 337 million-euro average estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN)  slipped 1.4 percent to 231.90
Swiss francs after Berenberg Bank downgraded  Switzerland ’s
biggest insurance company to “hold” from “buy.”  Thales sank 2.7 percent to 29.40 euros after  Les Echos 
reported that the company may make a cash contribution of as
much as 500 million euros as part of a possible asset swap with
Safran. The newspaper cited an unidentified person familiar with
the talks.  Thales, Europe’s largest defense-electronics producer,
posted first-quarter revenue of 2.52 billion euros after the
close of trading yesterday. That compares with 2.48 billion
euros a year earlier.  Stada Arzneimittel AG (SAZ)  slumped 6.6 percent to 29.16 euros,
its biggest selloff since September. The generic drugmaker has
held talks with Gruenenthal GmbH to buy a branded product
portfolio in markets in Europe and the Middle East for 360
million euros in cash.  Natixis downgraded the shares to “neutral” from “buy.”
Analysts said the deal was a “significant acquisition that
could temporarily weigh on the share price.”  Julius Baer, 3i  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  dropped 2.2 percent to 38.63 francs
in Zurich after the firm reported a 1.8 percent increase in
assets under management in the four months through April.  Their “figures are a touch weaker across the board,”
wrote Christian Stark, an analyst at CA Cheuvreux SA, in a
report to clients today. “Though we have seen some recovery in
client risk appetite, the process is slower than anticipated.”  3i Group Plc (III)  surged 6.7 percent to 289.9 pence after
Britain’s biggest publicly traded private equity firm said the
value of its assets increased by 9.4 percent as economic growth
in emerging economies boosted the earnings of the companies that
it owns.  Sky Deutschland AG (SKYD)  jumped 7.8 percent to 3.45 euros after
the pay-TV operator posted a first-quarter loss before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization that narrowed to 55 million
euros. The broadcaster lost 64.5 million euros on the same basis
a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  