-- 
Ensign May Face Justice Department Probe After Senate Ethics Report

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-05-13T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/ex-senator-ensign-should-face-justice-department-probe-ethics-panel-says.html
John Ensign  may face renewed scrutiny
from the  Justice Department  and the  Federal Election Commission 
after a report by the Senate Select Committee on Ethics found
“substantial credible evidence” of criminal wrongdoing by the
former  Nevada  Republican senator.  The committee reported its findings a week after Ensign,
53, resigned from the Senate. When he announced that he would
give up his Senate seat, he said he wanted to spare his family
the emotional “wear and tear” of an ethics inquiry into an
extramarital affair.  The ethics panel forwarded its findings to the Justice
Department and the FEC. The Justice Department had earlier
dropped a probe of Ensign, according to his lawyer, Paul Coggins, and the FEC declined to authorize an investigation, the
Ethics Committee report said.  “When Senator Ensign resigned, he said, ‘I have not
violated any law, any rule or a standard of conduct,’” Senator
 Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat, said on the Senate floor
yesterday. “I want to go on record as chairman of the Ethics
Committee to say how strongly I disagree with that statement.”  Ensign disclosed in June 2009 that he had had an affair
with the treasurer of his campaign committee, Cindy Hampton,
whose husband, Doug Hampton, was a top aide on his Senate staff.
The previous year, after Doug Hampton learned of the affair and
he and his wife left their jobs, Ensign’s parents paid $96,000
to the Hamptons and two of their children. Coggins said in July
2009 that the payment was made “out of concern for the well-
being of longtime family friends during a difficult time.”  “I am confident that the  Department of Justice  will
conclude that Senator Ensign fully complied with the law,”
Coggins said in a statement yesterday.  Hired as Lobbyist  The ethics panel reported that after Doug Hampton left
Ensign’s staff, the senator pushed to have him hired as a
lobbyist with access to the senator, even though Hampton was
subject to a one-year ban on contacting his former boss. Hampton
contacted Ensign’s office and received help for his clients, the
report said.  The report also said that part of the $96,000 was “an
unlawful and unreported campaign contribution” because Cindy
Hampton had been a campaign aide, and that Ensign’s parents
misled the FEC in saying the money was a “pattern of giving to
the Hamptons.”  The ethics committee also said Ensign deleted documents and
files relevant to the case, including a personal e-mail account.  Ensign’s actions “exceeded the normal acts of discretion
and created a web of deceit that entangled and compromised
numerous people, including a loyal chief of staff, was an abuse
of the senator’s power, and raised serious issues of violations
within the committee’s jurisdiction,” the report said.  Lawyers’ Response  Ensign’s lawyers, Robert Walker and Abbe Lowell, provided
the committee with a 12-page response and said the committee’s
decision to issue its findings one day after receiving it meant
that it “did not fully consider our submission.”  The lawyers said that while Ensign recommended Hampton to
potential employers, the discussions didn’t include efforts to
violate any bans on lobbying; that the $96,000 was a gift; and
that the senator “did not delete or destroy evidence to conceal
it” from investigators.  “Senator Ensign has admitted and apologized for his
conduct and imposed on himself the highest sanction of
resignation,” the lawyers said in an e-mailed statement. “But
this is not the same as agreeing that he did or intended to
violate any laws or rules, and this submission demonstrates that
there is a lot more to the issues than the committee’s report
indicates.”  ‘Puzzling’ Decision  The head of the government watchdog group that brought the
original complaint against Ensign called on the Justice
Department to prosecute the former senator.  “It is puzzling how DOJ, armed with the full might of the
legal system, was unwilling or unable to reach the same
conclusions as the ethics committee,” Melanie Sloan, executive
director of  Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in
Washington , said in a statement.  The Justice Department received the referral letter and
declined to make any additional comment, said  Laura Sweeney , a
department spokeswoman.  Judith Ingram, an FEC spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Republican U.S. Representative Dean Heller was appointed by
Nevada’s governor to succeed Ensign in the Senate. He was sworn
in as a senator on May 9, six days after Ensign stepped down.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 