-- 
Facebook Hires Burson-Marsteller to Pitch Story on Google

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-05-12T21:29:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/facebook-enlists-pr-firm-burson-marsteller-to-pitch-google-privacy-story.html
Facebook Inc. hired public relations
firm  Burson-Marsteller  to enlist reporters to write stories that
would portray its rival  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in an unfavorable light,
according to the firm and a journalist whom it approached.  Burson-Marsteller was asked by Facebook, the world’s most
popular social-networking service, to help shed light on
“publicly available information” about another company, the PR
firm said in a statement. Facebook asked that its name not be
disclosed, Burson-Marsteller said. Blogger  Chris Soghoian  said
the company asked him to write about a product called Google
Social Circles, exploring whether it violates user privacy.  Facebook and Google compete for Web users in a U.S. online
advertising market that’s projected by  EMarketer Inc.  to grow 11
percent to $28.5 billion in 2011. As regulators and consumer
groups probe Internet companies’ use of private data, Facebook’s
recruitment of the PR firm and its request for anonymity may
have been aimed at deflecting scrutiny toward a rival.  “It’s pretty sleazy on the part of the PR firm and it’s
pretty naive on the part of Facebook,” said Paul Argenti, a
 professor  of corporate communications at the Tuck School of
Business at Dartmouth. “It’s kind of a low blow.”  Soghoian said he declined to pursue the story and instead
posted the firm’s  request  on the Internet.  “I don’t think it’s normal for PR companies not to tell
people who they’re pitching for,” said Soghoian, who blogs
about online privacy and formerly worked at the Federal Trade
Commission’s Division of Privacy and Identity Protection. “I
immediately replied with, ‘Who’s paying you?’ and they replied
back saying, ‘We can’t tell you.’ That’s strange.”  Against Policy  In the e-mail, John Mercurio, a media practice director at
Burson-Marsteller, alleged that “Google is collecting, storing
and mining” personal information and sharing it without the
people’s knowledge.  Burson-Marsteller, based in  New York , said in a statement
that Facebook asked that its name be withheld “on the grounds
that it was merely asking to bring publicly available
information to light and such information could then be
independently and easily replicated by any media.”  The firm also said withholding the client’s name isn’t
standard operating procedure and “against our policies.”  Facebook, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , said it should
have presented the issues in a “serious and transparent way.”  “No ‘smear’ campaign was authorized or intended,” the
company said in a statement. Facebook retained Burson-Marsteller
to focus on an issue “using publicly available information that
could be independently verified by any media organization or
analyst.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 