-- 
Plosser Says Federal Reserve Should Tighten in ‘Not-Too-Distant Future’

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-05-12T14:23:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/fed-s-plosser-sees-time-to-tighten-in-not-too-distant-future-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said the U.S. economic recovery is
nearing a point where the central bank should begin pulling back
record stimulus.  “If the economy continues to make progress, then monetary
policy will need to exit from its extraordinary accommodation in
the not-too-distant future,” Plosser said today  in a speech  in
Aventura, Florida. “While my expectation is that oil-price
increases will level off and that the currently elevated
inflation measures will reverse, the risks to the inflation
outlook are tilted to the upside,” requiring that the Fed have
a plan for tightening, he said.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the  Federal Open Market
Committee , of which Plosser is a voting member, pledged at a
meeting last month to complete a $600 billion bond-purchase
program in June. The Fed hasn’t set out a timeline for shrinking
its $2.7 trillion balance sheet or raising rates from the zero-
to-0.25 percent range that’s been in place since December 2008.  “Depending on how economic conditions evolve, we must be
prepared to act as aggressively as necessary if we are to
promote effectively our long-run goals of  price stability  and
maximum employment,” Plosser said.  Fed officials have proposed a variety of so-called exit
strategies. Bernanke said last month that ceasing to reinvest
maturing assets on the Fed’s balance sheet is “very likely” to
be an early tightening step. Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said he prefers raising the central bank’s target
interest rate as the first move.  QE3 Unlikely  Speaking to reporters after the speech, Plosser said the
Fed is “actively discussing” its next steps and that a third
round of quantitative easing, or QE3, is unlikely. Plosser said
that the FOMC may “go on hold” to assess the economy.  “We’ve made pretty clear there’s no QE3 on the table right
now,” he said, “unless something dramatic happens.”  The end of the Fed’s $600 billion bond purchase program
next month is “all built into the market,” since the Fed has
not altered its plan since it was first announced in November,
Plosser said. “I don’t think there’s going to be any disruptive
effects.”  In a March speech called  “EXIT,”  Plosser called for a
plan to sell $125 billion in assets for every 0.25 percentage
point increase in the Fed’s interest rate.  ‘Systematic Plan’  “We can be most successful in exiting from this period of
extraordinary accommodation and nontraditional policies if we
communicate a systematic plan that describes where we are headed
and how we will get there,” Plosser said today at the annual
conference of the New Jersey Bankers Association. He also
repeated his call for the Fed to adopt an explicit target for
inflation, to help anchor public expectations during the exit.  The national average price of gasoline has risen 36 percent
in the past year to $3.95 a gallon on May 9. The Labor
Department reported May 10 that import prices rose 11 percent in
April from a year earlier.  The Fed said such pressures will have only a “transitory”
effect on overall inflation. The Labor Department said overall
prices rose 2.7 percent in March from a year earlier, and prices
excluding food and fuel rose 1.2 percent. The Fed targets
inflation of 2 percent or a bit below.  While Plosser said inflation from  oil prices  will likely
wane, he noted increasing input costs for companies, saying “I
expect more firms will test their pricing power, particularly as
concerns about the recovery’s sustainability abate.”  ‘Upside’ Risks  “Thus, I see the inflation risks as being clearly to the
upside,” he said.  Plosser also said he was concerned about the stability of
inflation expectations.  “It is somewhat troubling to me that expectations of
inflation in the medium to longer term are moving up and down as
much as they are,” he said. “It suggests that the public and
the markets may not have as much confidence in the Fed’s ability
or willingness to keep its price-stability mandate clearly in
focus.”  Longer-run inflation expectations, as measured by the
spread between Treasury Inflation Protected Securities and
nominal bonds, show investors expect inflation of 2.85 percent
in five to 10 years, up from 2 percent as recently as August.
The measure climbed as high as 3.19 percent last month.  Economy to Grow  Plosser said he forecasts the economy will grow 3 percent
to 3.5 percent in both 2011 and 2012 and expects the
 unemployment rate  to fall to 8.5 percent at the end of this year
and to 7 percent to 7.5 percent by the end of 2012.  Speaking to reporters after the speech, Plosser said he
sees inflation drifting up toward 2 percent this year and that
“if that forecast is true, then I wouldn’t be surprised if we
had to take some action before the end of the year.”  Plosser, 62, voted to complete the central bank’s $600
billion of bond purchases and backed its decision to keep
 interest rates  “exceptionally low” for an “extended period.”
In 2008, he dissented twice in favor of less monetary stimulus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Aventura,  Florida  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  