-- 
Fed Nominee Diamond Advances to Full Senate Where Victory Is ‘Doubtful’

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-05-12T16:59:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/fed-nominee-diamond-approved-for-third-time-by-senate-panel.html
Peter Diamond ’s nomination for a
Federal Reserve Board seat was approved a third time by the
Senate Banking Committee with little prospect that he’ll win
confirmation from the Senate as a central bank governor.  Republicans, a minority on the panel, were unified today
for the first time on the issue in a vote in Washington,
opposing the advance of the nomination for the Nobel Prize-
winning economist to the full Senate. Twelve Democrats backed
Diamond in the vote while 10 Republicans opposed him.  Senator Tim Johnson, a Democrat from South Dakota and
chairman of the committee, said to reporters he’s “doubtful”
that any Republicans will break party ranks to let Democrats
hold a Senate vote on Diamond. Alabama Senator  Richard Shelby ,
the committee’s senior Republican and an opponent to Diamond,
said the chances of a Senate vote on Diamond are “not good.”  To win confirmation, the Obama administration and Senate
Democrats must rally support from some Republican lawmakers
because Democrats are short of the 60 votes needed to override
procedural moves to block the nomination.  “It might be time for the president to start looking for
somebody else if he hadn’t already,” Shelby said in an
interview today after the vote.  Johnson told reporters today it would be up to Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  to decide whether to devote time on
the Senate floor to Diamond’s candidacy. Republicans twice
blocked confirmation last year for Diamond.  “I’m doubtful, but anything’s possible,” Johnson told
reporters when asked if any Republicans would help Democrats
override a filibuster on Diamond.  Lost Seats  The panel’s vote today was by a narrower margin than last
year’s 16-7 tallies. Democrats lost seats to Republicans in
November’s midterm elections.  “I don’t believe that Dr. Diamond is the right person for
this job,” Shelby told  the committee  before the vote. “I don’t
believe that he has the appropriate background or experience.”  Republicans’ unanimous vote today “sends a very strong
signal to the Senate that we’re planning to oppose that
nomination,” Shelby said in the interview. It’s also a “strong
message” to other Republican senators, “who I hope would back
us.” He said he doesn’t know of any Republicans who would
support Diamond.  The White House renominated Diamond in January, marking a
third try at confirmation after the Senate adjourned in December
without approving him. Diamond’s initial candidacy was returned
to the White House in August under a procedural objection.  Confirmed Last Year  He was first nominated to the Fed by President  Barack Obama 
in April 2010. Republicans allowed two other nominees, Fed Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen  and Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin , to be
confirmed last year.  Diamond, a professor at the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology  since 1966, shared the 2010  Nobel Prize  in Economic
Sciences in October with  Dale Mortensen  and  Christopher Pissarides  for research into the difficulties of matching supply
and demand, particularly in the labor market.  Shelby says Diamond lacks monetary-policy expertise and
would violate a law saying no two Fed governors may come from
the same geographic region. Shelby also disagrees with Diamond’s
support of stimulus spending to combat recessions.  The Nobel-winning work is a “starting place for applied
research in a wide variety of areas,” including “monetary
theory and analysis of the  capital market ,” Diamond said in
March testimony before the Banking Committee.  Diamond said at the confirmation hearing that the Fed’s
asset purchases aimed at lowering long-term rates with the
short-term rate near zero are an “appropriate way to go.”  Lost Support  Yesterday, Diamond lost the support of the one remaining
Republican senator on the banking panel to support his
nomination last year.  Nebraska Senator Mike Johanns, who voted twice in the
Banking Committee to back Diamond, said in a statement on his
website that “with our country spending its way into a crisis,
I can no longer support a nominee so vocally in favor of more
spending, more stimulus, and more quantitative easing.”  Johanns was one of three Republicans, among 10 on the
banking panel last year, to vote for Diamond in 2010. The other
two,  Utah ’s Robert Bennett and New Hampshire’s Judd Gregg, are
no longer in the Senate.  Fed Governor  Kevin Warsh  resigned effective April 2,
opening a second vacancy on the central bank’s board. The White
House has yet to pick a replacement. Diamond’s proposed term
would end January 2014.  From  Massachusetts   Shelby has said Diamond is “legally not eligible to
serve” because Fed law bars having two governors come from the
same region of the U.S. The nominations for both Diamond and
current Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo said the men were from
Massachusetts.  The White House designated Diamond as being from the
Chicago Fed district to comply with the law. In a Nov. 30
interview, Diamond, a professor at MIT since 1966, said his
professional connections to the region were sufficient to meet
the requirements of the provision.  He cited teaching for one quarter at  Northwestern
University  in Evanston,  Illinois , seminars at Northwestern and
the  University of Chicago  and other visits for a few days apiece
to schools in the region.  The Club for Growth, an anti-tax group, said this week it
would oppose Diamond’s nomination and include his confirmation
vote as a “key vote” on its “Congressional Scorecard” of
lawmakers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  