-- 
Fidelity Says Yields May Stay Low, Conflicting With Pimco

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-05-12T05:57:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/fidelity-says-u-s-treasury-yields-may-stay-low-conflicting-with-pimco.html
Treasury yields may stay low because
inflation is in check, according to  Fidelity Investments , the
Boston-based fund company that oversees $1.64 trillion.  Investors who are “neutral” on  U.S. debt  should have
about 30 percent of their bond portfolio in Treasuries, Claus te Wildt, a senior vice president and researcher at Fidelity, wrote
in a  report  yesterday on the company’s website. The
recommendation contrasts with  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co. and is
betting against America’s sovereign debt.  “Everybody seems to dislike U.S. Treasuries right now,”
te Wildt wrote. “ Interest rates  could stay low for quite some
time due to a lack of inflation. Treasuries should remain a core
component of a diversified portfolio.”  U.S. debt posted the best returns in eight months during
April, gaining 1.15 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes, overcoming concern about the $1.3
trillion  budget deficit  and a warning from Standard & Poor’s
that the U.S.’s AAA credit rating is at risk. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he’s in no rush to increase
interest rates, and he will keep reinvesting proceeds of
maturing debt held by the central bank into bonds.  Ten-year yields were little changed at 3.16 percent as of
6:38 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.
The 3.625 percent note maturing in February 2021 traded at 103
27/32. Rates dropped to 3.13 percent on May 6, the lowest level
this year.  Pimco Holdings  Pimco’s $240.7 billion Total Return Fund had minus 4
percent of its assets in government and related debt in April,
the company reported on its website. The fund can have a so-
called negative position by using derivatives, futures or by
shorting. Shorting is borrowing and selling an asset in
anticipation of making a profit by buying it back after its
price has fallen.  Gross, who is based in  Newport Beach ,  California , said in a
May 6 interview that inflation will hurt bonds.  The difference between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, has narrowed to
2.40 percentage points from 2.67 percentage points on April 11.
Last month’s figure was the highest in three years. The average
over the past decade is 2.10 percentage points.  ‘Don’t Give Up’  Ten-year Treasuries yield 0.46 percent after stripping out
inflation based on the  consumer price index . The figure was 0.45
percent on May 6, the least since 2008. Based on two-year
Treasuries, the real yield is minus 2.16 percent.  S&P put a “negative” outlook on the U.S.’s AAA credit
rating on April 18, saying there’s a one-in-three chance of a
downgrade unless lawmakers agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce
budget deficits and the national debt.  Bernanke said April 27 that the end of the Fed’s $600
billion bond-buying program in June probably won’t have a
“significant” effect on financial markets or the economy, and
the central bank will probably keep reinvesting maturing debt.  “Don’t give up on Treasuries yet,” te Wildt wrote.  Lawrence Lau, chairman of CIC International ( Hong
Kong ) Co., said at a briefing in Beijing today that U.S.
Treasuries are a safe investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  