-- 
First Solar Says Three U.S. Loan Guarantees Moving Forward

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-05-12T15:08:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/first-solar-gets-positive-letters-from-u-s-energy-department.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s largest
maker of thin-film solar modules, received letters indicating
support from the U.S. Energy Department for three projects it’s
developing in  California .  The letters mean that loan guarantees are moving forward on
First Solar’s Topaz and Desert Sunlight projects, which will
each have 550 megawatts of capacity, and its 230-megawatt Solar
Ranch project, the Tempe, Arizona-based  company said  on its
website.  “These letters are a positive development for First Solar
as it reaffirms that the company’s largest projects remain on
track,” Mark Bachman, an analyst at Auriga USA in  New York ,
said today in a note to clients. He has a “buy” rating on
First Solar shares.  The Energy Department has approved, with conditions, 19
loan guarantees for renewable energy projects, accounting for
almost two-thirds of the $2.4 billion in funding that was
approved as part of the Recovery Act. The agency must distribute
all the funds before the loan guarantee program expires at the
end of September.  Jonathan Silver, director of the Energy Department’s loan
program, on  May 10 said  there won’t be enough money or time to
complete financing for every project that submitted
applications, and that some won’t receive its backing. The
projects the agency deems most likely to succeed will have
priority, he said.  First Solar’s 290-megawatt Agua Caliente project in
 Arizona , which is being built for  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) , in January
won approval for a loan guarantee of as much as $967 million.  First Solar rose $5.20, or 4.2 percent, to $129.50 at 10:32
a.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have declined
9.9 percent in the past month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  