-- 
Food Prices May Extend Advance, Adding to Inflationary Pressure, FAO Says

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-05-12T02:21:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/food-prices-may-extend-advance-adding-to-inflationary-pressure-fao-says.html
Food prices may extend gains, driven
by higher crude oil costs, said the United Nations  Food &
Agriculture Organization , leading to accelerating inflationary
pressure from China to the U.S.  “For the time being, food-price increases may continue
because of high  oil prices ,” Hiroyuki Konuma, the FAO’s
regional representative in  Asia , said in an interview yesterday
in Bangkok. “We’re very worried about volatile crude oil prices.
There is no sign that prices will decline sharply.”  Global food costs rose to near a record in April as grain
costs advanced, increasing inflationary pressure from Beijing to
Brasilia and spurring central banks to raise  interest rates .
Food-price spikes have driven 44 million people into poverty
since June last year, the World Bank said, and also contributed
to riots across North Africa and the Middle East that toppled
leaders in Egypt and Tunisia.  An index of 55 food commodities rose to 232.1 points last
month from 231 points in March, the Rome-based FAO said in a
report on May 5. The gauge climbed to an all-time high of 237.2
in February before dropping 2.6 percent in March. A further 10
million people may become impoverished if the index climbs 10
percent, the  World Bank  said April 16.  The decline in March “might not represent a reverse in the
long-term trend as the overall conditions that have been forcing
food prices higher have not changed,” Konuma said.  Meat, Oilseeds  Global food prices may rise 4.4 percent to a record 240
points by the end of the year, driven by demand for meat,
oilseeds and grains used to make ethanol, William Adams, a  fund
manager  at Zurich-based Resilience AG, which has $22.2 million
of assets, said April 26.  Turmoil in oil-producing countries including  Libya  pushed
crude above $100 a barrel in March and April. Higher crude
prices make biofuels produced from crops more competitive, while
raising the cost of tractor fuel and fertilizer for farmers.  “Planting area for wheat and corn appears to be on an
increasing trend because farmers will choose to plant the most
profitable commodity,” which will help slow food-cost increases,
Konuma said.  Grain production in the 2011-2012 crop year may rise to
2.27 billion metric tons from an estimated 2.18 billion tons in
the current year, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture   said  May 11.
Oilseed output may advance to 459.2 million tons next season
from 449.3 million tons, it said.  Corn has surged 79 percent in the past 12 months on
speculation that more planting in the U.S., the world’s largest
grower, won’t be sufficient to rebuild global stockpiles. Wheat
rose 54 percent over the same period and soybeans gained 38
percent as flooding ruined crops in  Canada  and Australia and
drought reduced harvests in Russia and  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  