-- 
Ford’s Mulally Plans to Stay Amid Work to Restore Dividend

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-05-12T21:33:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/ford-s-mulally-plans-to-stay-past-65.html
Ford Motor Co. Chief Executive
Officer  Alan Mulally  said he plans to stay with the automaker as
it works to regain its investment-grade  credit rating  and
restore the common stock dividend it suspended five years ago.  “I’m just absolutely thrilled and honored to serve Ford,”
Mulally, 65, said after the automaker’s annual meeting in
Wilmington, Delaware, when asked by a reporter if he had plans
to retire. “I don’t have any plans besides that.”  Executive Chairman Bill Ford joked, “We’re not going to
discuss that until 2025,” when Mulally would turn 80.  Mulally, recruited by Bill Ford from  Boeing Co. (BA)  in 2006,
turned around Ford by focusing on fuel economy and quality in
new models such as the Fiesta subcompact. Ford, which earned
$6.56 billion in 2010, now faces the highest U.S. gasoline
prices since 2008. That’s a contrast to the $30.1 billion it
lost from 2006 through 2008 as rising fuel costs sank sales.  “Ford is in a much, much better place than it was in
2008,” said  Bernie McGinn , president of McGinn Investment
Management in Alexandria,  Virginia , which owns 330,000 Ford
common shares. “Ford’s story has changed from a great
turnaround story to the story of a viable company in a very
competitive industry.”  The second-largest U.S. automaker will consider restoring
payment of a dividend after it achieves an investment-grade
credit rating, said  Bill Ford , the great-grandson of founder
 Henry Ford . The last payout on the common shares was Sept. 1,
2006.  Dividend Discussion  “Our goal is to get back to investment grade,” he said.
“As we get close to that, the dividend discussion will be part
of the mix.”  Ford may resume paying dividends in the fourth quarter,
starting at 5 cents a share, according to Bloomberg Dividend
forecasts, which considered the company’s balance sheet,
earnings expectations and ability to generate cash.  Ford may reach investment grade by the end of this year,
 Bruce Clark , senior vice president and analyst at Moody’s
Investors Service, said in an interview last month. Moody’s
rates Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford Ba2, two steps below
investment grade, with a positive outlook. A two-level upgrade
is possible, even if it’s not typical, Clark said. Ford is rated
BB- by  Standard & Poor’s , three steps below investment grade.  Ford, which climbed 68 percent in New York trading in 2010,
has dropped 9.1 percent this year as commodity costs gained and
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC revived their products
and profits. Ford rose 11 cents to $15.26 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  ‘Headwinds’  “We remain cautious on Ford shares,” Joseph Amaturo, an
analyst with the Buckingham Research Group who rates Ford
“neutral,” wrote in an April 27 research note after the
company posted better-than-expected first-quarter profit of
$2.55 billion. Rising fuel prices and pending labor negotiations
are “increasing concerns about future headwinds adversely
impacting the company’s financial result.”  Regular unleaded gasoline averaged $3.98 a gallon in the
U.S. yesterday, a 38 percent gain from a year earlier, according
to AAA. U.S. gasoline prices peaked at $4.11 in July 2008.  Mulally today reiterated his pledge that Ford will improve
on 2010’s pretax operating profit of $8.3 billion. He has said
Ford may not make as much in the latter half of the year because
it faces $4 billion in higher costs for commodities, new-product
development, engineering, manufacturing and advertising.  ‘On The Bandwagon’  “Ford has had a lot of good news, but they haven’t been
able to push the stock higher,” said Jeffrey Spotts, a New
York-based portfolio manager at the $250 million Prophecy Fund
who took a short position on Ford May 9, betting the shares will
fall. “It was a momentum stock from the start of 2009 until the
start of this year, but now everyone is on the bandwagon.”  Mulally said he expects the stock will rise if the
automaker continues to improve profit and performance.  “As we demonstrate quarter after quarter and year after
year viable, profitable growth, then you’ll see the stock price
absolutely reflect that,” Mulally said.  Investors betting on Ford’s turnaround drove the shares to
a nine-year intraday high of $18.97 on Jan. 13 from a low of
$1.01 on Nov. 20, 2008. The stock’s 19 percent decline from this
year’s closing high of $18.79 on Jan. 27 compares with a 3.8
percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in that time.  “Ford used to be a relative outperformer and now it’s a
relative underperformer,” said Spotts, who sold his Ford
holdings last year for an average return of 275 percent and said
he would buy the stock again if it falls to $14. “There is
nothing wrong with the fundamental picture of Ford.”  Hiring Plans  Mulally, appearing at his fifth annual meeting as Ford’s
CEO, was lauded by Bill Ford as “a great leader.” In his first
four years, Mulally cut Ford’s North American workforce by 47
percent. Ford now plans to hire 7,000 workers by 2013 for its
U.S. factories and to engineer battery-powered cars.  “Last year,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  completed a remarkable
turnaround,” Ford told an audience of about 100 at the
shareholders meeting. “We face uncertainties in many areas,
from the price of fuel to the global economy. Despite those
facts, I’m optimistic.”  United Auto Workers President  Bob King  will negotiate new
contracts this year with Ford, GM and Chrysler. While the
agreements don’t expire until Sept. 14, King has said workers
must be rewarded for the $7,000 to $30,000 in concessions they
each gave since 2005 to help the automakers survive.  Labor Costs  Ford has said its U.S. labor costs are still $8 an hour
higher than those at the U.S. factories of foreign automakers.
Ford said it pays about $58 an hour in wages and benefits to its
40,600 U.S. hourly workers, while labor costs average $50 an
hour at the U.S. plants of international automakers such as
Japan’s  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and South Korea’s  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)   “I’m looking forward to having the discussion on how do we
enhance Ford’s competitiveness further,” Mulally said, noting
the “dynamic has changed” in contract talks since the last
round in 2007 because the company is now profitable and growing.  Ford avoided the bankruptcies and bailouts that befell its
U.S. competitors by borrowing $23 billion in late 2006 before
credit markets froze. The automaker put up all major assets,
including the Ford name, as collateral to build a cash cushion
to withstand losses while developing new models.  Shareholders for the seventh straight time rejected a
proposal, opposed by directors, to strip the founding Ford
family of its 40 percent voting control of the automaker.  The proposal won the backing of 31.5 percent of the shares
voted, the highest ever. Last year, 29.2 percent supported it.
The board includes two family members, Bill Ford and his cousin
Edsel Ford II.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  