-- 
Foreclosure Filings Drop to 40-Month Low as U.S. Lenders Delay Processing

-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 
2011-05-12T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/foreclosure-filings-drop-to-40-month-low-as-u-s-lenders-delay-processing.html
Foreclosure filings in the U.S. fell
34 percent last month from a year earlier as lenders already
swamped with seized homes delayed action on thousands of
additional delinquent mortgages,  RealtyTrac Inc.  said.  A total of 219,258 properties received default, auction or
repossession notices in April, the fewest in 40 months, the
Irvine, California-based data seller said today in a statement.
It was the seventh straight month that filings dropped from a
year earlier. They were down 9 percent from March. One in 593
U.S. households got a notice.  “Banks already sitting on thousands of properties they
can’t sell as quickly and profitably as they’d like aren’t going
to be anxious to accelerate foreclosures on tens of thousands
more,”  Rick Sharga , RealtyTrac’s senior vice president, said in
an e-mail.  The U.S. housing market faces “enormous challenges,”
Brian Moynihan, chief executive officer of  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , the largest  U.S. bank , told shareholders yesterday in
Charlotte,  North Carolina . Three-fourths of U.S. cities had
declines in  home prices  in the first quarter, according to the
National Association of Realtors. Distressed properties, which
include foreclosures and short sales, accounted for 40 percent
of transactions in March, the group said.  As many as 11 million home loans are underwater, in
foreclosure or close to default, Lewis Ranieri, a pioneer of
mortgage securitization, said last week while urging lenders to
reduce the debt of U.S. mortgage holders with solid credit
histories.  Investigation by Attorneys  Foreclosure filings have been falling since U.S. attorneys
general in October began a probe of lender practices including
improper documentation. Bank of America and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
are among five U.S. mortgage servicers in talks with state and
federal officials to settle the investigation.  RealtyTrac is planning to revise its forecast for 2011
foreclosures at midyear, Sharga said. A 20 percent increase in
total filings, which the company predicted in January, is
unlikely amid scrutiny of lenders and “market saturation” from
distressed homes already for sale, he said.  Default notices were filed on 63,422 U.S. properties last
month, close to a four-year low and down 39 percent from a year
earlier, according to RealtyTrac.  Auctions were scheduled for 86,304 properties, the lowest
number in 31 months and a decrease of 37 percent from April
2010, while lenders seized 69,532 homes, down 25 percent from a
year earlier.  States where courts oversee foreclosures showed a 47
percent decrease in filings from a year earlier, while non-
judicial states had a 26 percent decline, RealtyTrac said.  Highest in  Nevada   Nevada had the highest rate of foreclosure filings per
household at one in 97, with a record 4,606 homes seized.
Arizona had the second-highest rate at one in 205 and  California 
was third at one in 240. Utah, Idaho, Michigan,  Florida ,
Georgia, Colorado and Oregon also ranked in top 10.  Ten states accounted for 70 percent of the U.S. filing
total, led by  California ’s 55,869. Florida was second at 19,649
and Arizona third at 13,419. Michigan, Nevada, Illinois, Texas,
Georgia, Ohio and Colorado rounded out the top 10.  RealtyTrac sells default data from more than 2,200 counties
representing 90 percent of the U.S. population.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  