-- 
Galliano Anti-Semitism Trial Set for June 22 as Designer Sues His Lawyer

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-05-12T12:43:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/galliano-anti-semitism-trial-set-for-june-22-as-designer-sues-his-lawyer.html
John Galliano , the designer fired by
 Christian Dior SA (CDI)  over a video rant saying “I love Hitler,”
will stand trial June 22 on charges of verbally abusing three
people with anti-Semitic and racist slurs, a Paris court said.  The criminal trial to determine what happened in February
and October at a Paris café where the three say the 50-year-old
accosted them will last a day, the court said today. Galliano,
who didn’t attend the hearing, has said he was provoked.  “The question is to know who said what at what moment,”
Galliano lawyer Aurelien Hamelle said before the hearing.  The Gibraltar-born designer’s behavior prompted a swift
departure from the 65-year-old Paris fashion house, which also
owns Galliano’s namesake label. Galliano was fired less than a
week after being arrested when a drunken rant led a couple to
call police to a cafe in the fashionable third arrondissement,
when a third person came forward to say she’d been insulted by
the designer and a video of a slurring Galliano was posted on
the website of U.K. tabloid The Sun.  Galliano, who filed defamation claims against the couple in
February, added to his legal turmoil last week, after he filed a
criminal claim alleging his former lawyer Stephane Zerbib
embezzled 2.8 million euros ($4 million) from Galliano’s
company, Cheyenne Freedom.  Zerbib denied the charges and filed his own claims of libel
and malicious slander against his former client on May 9, Emma
Lapijower, Zerbib’s attorney, said yesterday.  ‘Shocked’  Galliano “wants to justify his anti-Semitic remarks” by
“falsely claiming now he was robbed” by Zerbib, who is Jewish,
said Lapijower. Zerbib, who had advised Galliano for eight
years, “was shocked” by the video, Lapijower said. “Their
break began then,” she said.  Dior fired Galliano three days before he was to host the
fashion house’s women’s ready-to-wear show in Paris. Sidney Toledano, the company’s chief executive officer, appeared
instead, saying that while Galliano is “brilliant,” his
comments were “intolerable because of our collective duty to
never forget the Holocaust and its victims.”  The designer faces a maximum 22,500-euro fine and six
months in prison.  Galliano said in a statement issued the day after his
firing that he is “seeking help, and all I can hope for in time
is to address the personal failure which led to these
circumstances and try and earn people’s forgiveness.”  Hamelle said Galliano isn’t currently in  France , while
declining to give his whereabouts or say what he is doing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 