-- 
Rajaratnam Odds Seen as Slim for Overturning Conviction

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-05-12T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/galleon-s-rajaratnam-may-face-uphill-battle-to-overturn-verdict-on-appeal.html
Galleon Group LLC’s Raj Rajaratnam,
potentially facing almost two decades in prison, will have an
“uphill struggle” in seeking to overturn his conviction in the
biggest insider-trading trial since the 1980s, a former
prosecutor said.  The hedge fund co-founder will appeal yesterday’s verdict
to the U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan, according to his
attorney,  John Dowd . Dowd failed to persuade the judge last year
that prosecutors had intentionally misled the court in their
request to wiretap Rajaratnam’s calls.  “It’s an uphill struggle, there’s no question about it,”
 Stephen Miller , a former federal prosecutor, said. “It’s always
hard, once you have a judge making credibility findings of any
sort for the appellate court to review it, especially in a case
of this magnitude.”  Rajaratnam, 53, was found guilty of five counts of
conspiracy and nine counts of securities fraud on the jury’s
12th day of deliberations. The jurors returned the verdict after
hearing evidence that Rajaratnam engaged in a seven-year
 conspiracy  to trade on inside information from corporate
executives, bankers, consultants, traders and directors of
public companies including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  He gained
$63.8 million, prosecutors said.  Home Detention  Prosecutors said Rajaratnam faces a prison term of 15 1/2
years to 19 1/2 years when he is sentenced July 29. Rajaratnam
remains under home detention and electronic monitoring at his
Sutton Place residence in Manhattan pending sentencing.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Streeter argued unsuccessfully
to have Rajaratnam, who is free on a $100 million bond, taken
into custody after the verdict.  Galleon was among the 10 largest  hedge funds  in the world
in the early years of the last decade. It managed $7 billion at
its peak in 2008. Rajaratnam’s net worth of $1.3 billion made
him the 559th richest person in the world, Forbes Magazine said
in 2009.  The case was the first one focused exclusively on  insider
trading  in which prosecutors wiretapped their targets’ telephone
conversations, a tactic used in organized-crime investigations.
Jurors heard more than 40 recordings of Rajaratnam, in some of
which he can be heard gathering secrets from his sources.  ‘Tip From My Guy’  “They’re gonna guide down,”  Danielle Chiesi , an analyst
at New Castle Funds LLC, told Rajaratnam on July 24, 2008, after
she got an insider’s leak that Akamai Technologies Inc. would
lower its forecast. “I just got a tip from my guy.”  Dowd said he would appeal the use of wiretaps, telling U.S.
District Judge Richard Holwell that the matter was “very
substantial.”  Holwell, after holding a week-long hearing in October,
ruled that the wiretaps were admissible at trial. He concluded
prosecutors “made a glaring omission” by failing to disclose
to the judge who approved the government’s wiretap application
that civil regulators had been probing Rajaratnam for years. At
the same time, Holwell rejected a defense claim that prosecutors
had intentionally deceived that judge.  That finding regarding the government’s credibility “cuts
against success on appeal,” said Miller, the former prosecutor
who is now a partner at the law firm Cozen O’Connor LLP. Appeals
courts are more likely to reverse a judge’s decision based on a
legal argument than a factual finding based on the judge’s
conclusions, he said.  “You have a district court judge who made a finding and
made a credibility determination,” Miller said, saying an
appellate court doesn’t have that same luxury. “They know it
and they tend to defer to the trial judge.”  Dowd and representatives of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara didn’t immediately return calls after regular business
hours seeking comment on an appeal.  Intel, Goldman Sachs  Rajaratnam used inside information to trade ahead of public
announcements about earnings, forecasts, mergers and spinoffs
involving more than a dozen companies, according to the evidence
at the trial. Among them were  Santa Clara , California-based
 Intel Corp. (INTC) , New York-based Goldman Sachs,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , ATI
Technologies Inc., Akamai and Hilton Hotels Corp.  Prosecutors said Rajaratnam’s sources included  Rajat Gupta ,
who until last year was a director at Goldman Sachs, and  Kamal Ahmed , a Morgan Stanley investment banker who prosecutors said
passed tips through Smith. Both deny wrongdoing, and neither has
been criminally charged.  Rajaratnam’s case was the most prominent amid a widespread
U.S. crackdown on insider trading. Bharara, who is directing the
nationwide probe, said his office has charged 47 people with
insider-trading crimes during the past 18 months, and that
Rajaratnam is the 35th person to be convicted.  Jurors ‘Shaken Up’  Phillip Wedo, who sat as an alternate on the jury and
wasn’t involved in deliberations, said he didn’t want to talk
about the case because he thought it would compromise his
loyalty to other jurors.  “I think they’re a little bit shaken up,” Wedo said. “I
don’t think it was an easy decision for them.”  John Coffee , a Columbia University law professor, said the
government’s use of wiretap evidence against Rajaratnam makes
the risks of sharing illegal stock tips clear to traders.  “This is the first major case in a generation.” Coffee
said. “And quite frankly, professionals learn what is legal and
illegal based not on the law but on who goes to prison for
what.”  ‘Rampant’ Illegal Trading  The trial came as Bharara promised to crack down on
“rampant” illegal trading on  Wall Street .  “Rajaratnam, once a high-flying billionaire and hedge fund
manager, is now a convicted felon, 14 times over,” Bharara said
in a statement after the verdict. “Rajaratnam was among the
best and the brightest -- one of the most educated, successful
and privileged professionals in the country. Yet, like so many
others recently, he let greed and corruption cause his
undoing.”  Before his arrest on Oct. 16, 2009, Rajaratnam had claimed
that Galleon analysts had an advantage over rivals because most
were trained as engineers and all focused their energies
exclusively on research. At the trial, his lawyers said his
trades were based on Galleon research.  “They don’t get blindsided by the marketing hype,”
Rajaratnam said of his analysts in “The New Investment
Superstars: 13 Great Investors and Their Strategies for Superior
Returns,” by Lois Peltz.  ‘Getting the Number’  Adam Smith , a former Galleon trader, testified at the trial
that the New York-based hedge fund gained its advantage through
other means. Rajaratnam emphasized “getting the number” -- or
learning revenue figures before they became public -- from
insiders at Intel, Intersil Corp. and other publicly traded
companies, he said.  “Research is sort of doing your homework ahead of time,”
Smith testified after pleading guilty to insider trading and
agreeing to cooperate with prosecutors. “Getting the number is
more like cheating on the test.”  Born in Sri Lanka’s capital, Colombo, Rajaratnam was
educated there at St. Thomas’ Preparatory School before leaving
for England, where he studied engineering at the University of
Sussex. He came to the U.S. to get his master’s of business
administration, graduating from the University of Pennsylvania’s
Wharton School in 1983.  Two of his Wharton classmates --  Anil Kumar , who became a
partner at McKinsey & Co., and Rajiv Goel, who was a managing
director at Intel -- testified against him at the trial, telling
jurors how their relationships began at the school and how they
turned to crime. Both have pleaded guilty.  Blankfein’s Testimony  Also testifying for the prosecution was Goldman Sachs Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein , who said Gupta violated the
company’s confidentiality policies by allegedly telling
Rajaratnam about its earnings and strategic plans. Rajaratnam
didn’t take the stand in his own defense.  Rajaratnam’s first job after graduation was at Chase
 Manhattan  Bank, where he was a lending officer in the group that
made loans to high-tech companies. In 1985, he joined Needham &
Co., a New York-based investment bank that specialized in
technology and health-care companies.  He started as an analyst covering the electronics industry
and rose through the ranks, becoming head of research in 1987,
chief operating officer in 1989 and president in 1991. A year
later, at 34, Rajaratnam started a fund, Needham Emerging Growth
Partners LP, according to Galleon’s marketing documents.  Rajaratnam and Needham colleagues Krishen Sud, Gary Rosenbach and Ari Arjavalingam formed Galleon Group in January
1997. By the end of that year, they were managing $830 million,
much of it from technology company executives Rajaratnam had
gotten to know throughout his career, according to “The New
Investment Superstars.”  Goffer’s Trial  Among others charged are executives affiliated with Primary
Global Research LLC, a  Mountain View , California-based
networking firm that links investors with industry experts who
work for public companies. A related case against former Galleon
trader Zvi Goffer is scheduled for trial next week.  Goffer, who has pleaded not guilty, is accused by
prosecutors of leading one of three insider-trading rings
targeted in the Galleon-related cases. Prosecutors filed a
superseding indictment in April in which Goffer and his
codefendants are accused of trading on stock tips that came from
lawyers at Ropes & Gray in  New York  and from another former
trader.  Rajaratnam “joins the pantheon of Ivan Boesky and Gordon
Gekko,” said  Peter Henning , a professor at Wayne State
University Law School in Detroit, citing the real-life stock
trader who was jailed after pleading guilty to conspiracy in
1987 and the fictional “Wall Street” film character who came
to symbolize the financial scandals of the 1980s. “It is a
defining case,” Henning, a former federal prosecutor, said.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 