-- 
GE Plans Texas Locomotive Plant Near Buffett’s Burlington

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-05-12T19:12:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/ge-to-build-locomotive-plant-add-500-jobs-near-buffett-s-bnsf.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  plans to open a
locomotive plant employing more than 500 people in Fort Worth,
 Texas , the hometown of Warren Buffett’s Burlington Northern
Santa Fe, as demand rises for railroad shipments.  GE Transportation will invest as much as $96 million at the
first U.S. factory outside its Erie, Pennsylvania, base in more
than a century. That hiring and 250 new jobs in Erie will push
the unit’s global workforce to about 10,000 employees, said
Lorenzo Simonelli, the business’s chief executive officer.  “Since April, we’ve announced hiring nearly 1,000
employees,” Simonelli said today in a telephone interview.
“North America we feel good about, but we also feel good about
emerging markets. We see a good runway ahead.”  Expanding into Texas gives GE Transportation a
manufacturing base in the state with the most railroad route
miles in the U.S. Texas is served chiefly by  Union Pacific
Corp. (UNP) , whose Union Pacific Railroad is the nation’s biggest by
sales, and Burlington Northern, owned by  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   The state of Texas is committing $4.2 million in incentives
for the plant, which has the potential to hire as many as 275
more positions after the initial 500 by 2012, Fairfield,
Connecticut-based GE said in a statement today.  Freight, Passengers  The Texas factory will be able to make freight and
passenger locomotives as GE Transportation lobbies for new
 Amtrak  and high-speed passenger-rail contracts, as well as other
vehicles used in industries like mining, Simonelli said. Union
Pacific operates about 8,000 locomotives, and Burlington
Northern has about 6,000, according to their websites.  GE Transportation settled on the Texas location after
reviewing options that included existing company factories in
Massachusetts, Simonelli said.  “What it came down to really was the aspects of the
facility itself, which allows for flexibility,” Simonelli said.
Connections to existing rail lines also played a role in the
decision, he said.  GE is reworking an existing building and expanding it to
almost double the facility’s size to about 900,000 square feet,
said Michelle Frith, an outside spokeswoman for the  Fort Worth 
Chamber of Commerce.  “As a major transportation hub, North Texas is the perfect
location for GE Transportation’s new locomotive manufacturing
facility,” Texas State Senator Jane Nelson said in a statement
released by Governor Rick Perry’s office.  Demand for freight shipments in North America is improving
as the  U.S. economy  recovers, Simonelli said. From outside the
U.S., GE Transportation has logged orders in the past two years
from markets such as  China , Kazakhstan,  South Africa  and  Brazil .  Rail Volumes  U.S. rail volumes excluding grain and coal shipments rose
7.9 percent to 4.6 million carloads in the quarter ended March
31, according to data compiled by the Association of American
Railroads in  Washington . It was the second-highest increase in a
first quarter, after last year’s 9.3 percent advance.  Locomotive demand is climbing, too. GE Transportation’s
first-quarter backlog was about $4.1 billion, 40 percent more
than a year earlier, GE Chief Financial Officer Keith Sherin
said in an April 21 conference call. First-quarter orders for
rail cars, which GE doesn’t make, rose to the highest since
1997.  Texas’s 10,405 railroad route miles (16,741 kilometers)
outstrip the 7,313 miles of No. 2 Illinois, according to the
 Association of American Railroads . The seven largest railroads
in the U.S. operate a total of 139,679 route miles.  GE Transportation accounted for $3.37 billion of the parent
company’s $150.2 billion in 2010 sales. The unit’s competitors
include  Siemens AG (SIE)  of  Germany  and Electro-Motive Diesel, which
was once a division of the former General Motors Corp.
Caterpillar Inc. bought Electro-Motive in 2010.  “We just feel good about the outlook and we’re taking
steps to really have a good position industry,” Simonelli said.
“We’re going to have increased flexibility and a high-tech
facility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  