-- 
German Bonds Rise as European Production Slips, Limiting Rate Speculation

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-05-12T15:27:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/german-government-bonds-rise-before-european-industrial-production-report.html
German bunds rose, pushing the 10-
year yield toward a two-month low, as a report showed European
industrial production unexpectedly fell in March, strengthening
the case for  interest rates  to be kept on hold.  Two-year German notes also gained as European stocks slid,
boosting demand for the safety of fixed-income assets. The
securities of  Europe ’s most-indebted nations advanced after
 Finland ’s finance minister said the country will back a bailout
for  Portugal .  “The more negative surprises that we’re getting are giving
the market a reason to rally,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-
interest strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment
Bank in London. “Disappointment with the industrial production
number was the main driver today.”  The yield on the bund, Europe’s benchmark government
security, fell two basis points to 3.11 percent at 4:24 p.m. in
London. The yield fell to 3.08 percent on May 9, the least since
March 16. The 3.25 percent security maturing in July 2021 gained
0.155, or 1.55 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,412) face amount, to
101.190. Two-year yields fell three basis points to 1.76
percent.  Production in the euro area slipped 0.2 percent in March
from February, when it grew 0.6 percent, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said today. The median
prediction of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 0.3
percent gain.  European Rate  Bunds rose last week as the  European Central Bank  left the
refinancing rate at 1.25 percent and its president,  Jean-Claude
Trichet , signaled the ECB may not raise rates further until
after June. Euribor futures rose today, with the implied yield
on the December contract sliding three basis points to 1.97
percent, as investors reduced bets for higher borrowing costs.  Portuguese two-year notes rallied, with the yield dropping
45 basis points to 11.22 percent, after Finland’s Jyrki Katainen
said the nation will back financial aid for the Iberian nation
provided donors’ loans are repaid before those of private
investors. The 10-year Portuguese bond yield was nine basis
points lower at 9.33 percent.  “The news that Finland is going to ratify the Portuguese
bailout is good news,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , an Edinburgh-
based fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd., a
broker for banks and investors. “You’re seeing a bit of relief
on that. The question is now when funds for Greece are going to
be disbursed.”  Irish, Spanish, Greek  Irish two-year note yields fell 24 basis points to 12.36
percent. Spanish 10-year bonds rose for a third day, sending the
yield down four basis points to 5.22 percent.  The yield on two-year Greek notes fell 49 basis points to
24.80 percent as the securities advanced after European
officials sought to distance themselves from speculation the
nation may need to restructure its debt.  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said a restructuring of Greek debt would have “devastating
implications.” Talk of a reorganization is a “veritable
poison,” said Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the
group of euro-area finance ministers.  The two-year Greek yield earlier reached a record 26.77
percent amid concern the nation will at least require additional
financial aid to bring down its debt burden. The nation will
have to carry out extra savings before more aid is freed up,
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said.  Transport Strike  Greek unions kept ferries docked at ports, grounded flights
and shut hospitals and schools yesterday in protests against
Prime Minister George Papandreou’s plans to sell state assets
and usher in more spending cuts. The country’s unemployment rate
rose to 15.9 percent in February, from 15.1 percent the previous
month, Athens-based Hellenic Statistical Authority said.  Greece  is likely to restructure its debt in the first half
of next year, Barclays Capital strategists including Piero Ghezzi, head of global economics, emerging markets and currency
research in London, wrote in an investor report yesterday. A
restructuring is “unavoidable,” Credit Suisse Group AG
analysts, including  Andrew Garthwaite , wrote a research note
today.  German bonds have handed investors a 0.9 percent loss this
year, compared with a 1.8 percent return for Treasuries,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Greek bonds have
lost investors 11 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  