-- 
Ghana Will Probably Leave Key Rate at 13.5 Percent After Inflation Slowed

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-05-12T10:33:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/ghana-will-probably-leave-key-rate-at-13-5-percent-after-inflation-slowed.html
Ghana’s  central bank may leave its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for the fourth consecutive
meeting after the inflation rate pared increases made at the
start of the year, a survey of economists showed.  The Accra-based Bank of  Ghana  will keep the lending rate at
13.5 percent, according to six of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. One economist expected a half-point reduction. The
decision will be announced at 11 a.m. tomorrow in the capital,
Accra.  “I believe that inflation will continue to go down,
particularly in the month of May,” Collins Appiah, head of
asset management at Accra-based  NDK Financial Services Ltd. ,
said in an e-mailed note May 9.“With this expectation I will
expect the MPC to continue to maintain the policy rate.”  Inflation slowed for a second consecutive month in April,
dropping to 9 percent from 9.1 percent the month before, as the
effects of a 30 percent increase in gasoline prices in January
eased and the cedi stabilized. The currency which weakened as
much as 5.7 percent in the first five weeks of 2011, is now only
down 1.5 percent in the year.  The  Bank of Ghana  lowered its benchmark interest rate four
times between November 2009 and July last year as inflation
slowed from a five-year high of 20.7 percent in June 2009.  “As soon as inflation edges back into the double digits
(probably not until the second half) we can expect a hiking
cycle to commence,” Lisa Lewin, head of sub-Saharan Africa
analysis at London-based Business Monitor International, said in
an e-mailed note yesterday.  While the inflation rate will probably rise this year, it
is unlikely to pass the level of the key interest rate, Yvonne Mhango, a sub-Saharan Africa economist at  Renaissance Capital ,
said in an e-mailed note May 10.  “Given that credit growth is on a recovery path, the
monetary policy committee may also not want to create a higher
interest rate environment that will hinder this recovery,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 