-- 
Gingrich Formally Enters Race for 2012 Republican Presidential Nomination

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-05-12T01:42:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/gingrich-formally-enters-race-for-2012-republican-presidential-nomination.html
Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of Georgia formally entered the race for the 2012
Republican presidential nomination today.  Gingrich, 67, said on his  campaign website  that he was
running “because I believe we can return America to hope and
opportunity, to full employment, to real security, to an
American energy program, to a balanced budget.”  The website includes a line quoting Gingrich saying,
“Together we will win the future.” That parrots a line that
President  Barack Obama  -- the Democrat Gingrich is seeking to
unseat -- used in his State of the Union speech to Congress in
January and that he has occasionally recycled since then.  Gingrich returned to that theme tonight in an interview on
Fox News Channel’s “Hannity.”  “This is about millions of Americans deciding we can win
the future with the right policies leading to the right
outcomes,” he said. “President Obama has the wrong policies
leading to the wrong outcomes.”  Gingrich had signaled May 9 that he would seek the
Republican nomination.  With his announcement today, he became the first among the
more prominent prospective Republican White House contenders to
officially declare his candidacy. Several of the others,
including former  Massachusetts  Governor Mitt Romney and former
Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty , have been laying the groundwork
for presidential campaigns.  Republican Majority  A former college professor, Gingrich was elected to the
House in 1978. In the 1994 midterm elections, he spearheaded a
Republican campaign that gave the party its first majority in
the House in 40 years. In January 1995, when the new Congress
took office, he became the first Republican House speaker since
Representative  Joe Martin  of Massachusetts served in the post
from 1953 to 1955.  In 1997, Gingrich was reprimanded by the House and paid
$300,000 to settle claims that he had used tax-exempt
organizations for political purposes and had given misleading
statements during an investigation. He announced his resignation
from Congress in November 1998 after the House Republicans saw
their majority shrink in the second consecutive election.  As speaker, he championed the House’s impeachment of  Bill Clinton  over the president’s relationship with a White House
intern. The Senate acquitted Clinton. It later was disclosed
that while promoting Clinton’s impeachment, Gingrich was having
an extramarital affair with a congressional staff member, who
became his third wife in 2000.  Four other Republicans have filed paperwork with the
 Federal Election Commission  to raise money for their
presidential campaigns and are expected to soon officially
announce their candidacies. In addition to Pawlenty and Romney,
this group includes former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum of
 Pennsylvania  and Representative Ron Paul of  Texas .  Other Prospects  Others considering a run include former Arkansas Governor
Mike Huckabee; former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, the 2008
Republican vice-presidential nominee; Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , a Tea Party favorite; real estate
developer Donald Trump; Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels; and
former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman, who returned to the U.S. last
month after serving as Obama’s ambassador to  China .  Herman Cain, the former chairman and chief executive
officer of Godfather’s Pizza Inc., and former New Mexico
Governor Gary Johnson also have declared their candidacies. They
joined Pawlenty, Paul and Santorum for the campaign’s first
debate May 5 in  South Carolina .  Former Louisiana Governor Buddy Roemer, a Democrat-turned-
Republican, has formed an exploratory committee for a possible
run.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  