-- 
Glaxo, Gilead AIDS Drugs Cut Transmission to Partners by 96%, Study Shows

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-05-13T04:24:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/glaxo-gilead-aids-drugs-slash-hiv-transmission-by-96-.html
Millions of HIV infections could be
averted by  treating patients  earlier than current guidelines
recommend, after a study showed giving pills to patients as soon
as they’re diagnosed can prevent them infecting others.  In a  trial  among 1,763 couples where only one partner was
infected, those who started treatment immediately were 96
percent less likely to transmit the AIDS-causing virus to their
uninfected partner than those who started therapy later. The
study, which was due to end in 2015, was terminated early
because the effect was so clear, U.S.  National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases  said in a statement yesterday.  The findings are the first to prove that treating a person
reduces their risk of infecting others, and may change the pace
of care for people with the world’s deadliest virus. The  World
Health Organization  currently recommends patients with healthy
immune systems not get HIV drugs, which can have serious side
effects, until their infection-fighting cells fall below a
certain level.  “This new finding convincingly demonstrates that treating
the infected individual -- and doing so sooner rather than later
-- can have a major impact on reducing HIV transmission,”
Anthony Fauci, NIAID’s director, said in the statement.  The researchers found 28 new HIV cases in which an infected
person transmitted the virus to their partner, which they
confirmed by genetic testing. Of those, only one was among the
886 couples where treatment began immediately with a mix of
drugs from companies including  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  and Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co. The 27 other infections were among 877 couples
where treatment was delayed.  2.6 Million Infected  About 2.6 million people became infected with HIV in 2009,
21 percent less than in 1997 when annual infections peaked at
about 3.2 million, the  United Nations ’ AIDS program,  UNAIDS ,
said in a report last year. Still, only 36 percent of the 15
million people who need treatment in  developing countries  in
Africa and  Asia  are getting it, the report said.  The trial, dubbed HPTN 052, bolsters the idea of treating
people as a means of prevention and may reduce infection rates
if the findings are properly implemented, said  Mitchell Warren ,
executive director of the  AIDS Vaccine Advocacy Coalition .  “These data must serve as a clarion call to funders,
policy makers, civil society and implementers,” he said in a
statement. “If deployed effectively, efficiently and ethically,
early initiation of treatment will be fundamental to turning the
tide of the epidemic.”  Trial Participants  The trial was funded by the U.S.  National Institutes of
Health  and conducted in  South Africa , Kenya,  Thailand ,  India ,
 Brazil , Botswana, Malawi and Zimbabwe. The drugs were provided
by Foster City, California-based Gilead, New York-based Bristol-
Myers,  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  of Abbott Park,  Illinois , German
drugmaker Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Merck & Co. of Whitehouse
Station,  New Jersey  and Viiv Healthcare, which is a joint
venture of New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and London-based
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)   The findings don’t apply to men who have sex with men since
97 percent of the couples studied were heterosexual, the
researchers said. Only one couple came from the  United States ,
where investigators had trouble finding participants.  Drugs to treat HIV can cost $12,000 or more a year, and
cause side effects including nausea and kidney damage. Studies
are under way to identify the best time to start the drugs that
must be taken daily for life. There is no hard and fast rule on
when to begin treatment for patients who still have a strong
immune system without signs of AIDS.  Researchers will continue to monitor volunteers in the
study to see if the benefit lasts. While some nations including
the U.S. have recommended starting treatment earlier, the
study’s finding suggests more patients should get the pills upon
diagnosis, doctors said.  Tuberculosis Rates  Tuberculosis developed in 17 people getting delayed
treatment and three who received immediate drug therapy in the
study. There was no significant difference in the number of
deaths seen in the trial.  The study proves early treatment improves patient’s health
and dramatically reduces new HIV infections in their partners,
said Robert Grant, associate professor at the  Gladstone
Institute of Virology and Immunology  at the University of
 California ,  San Francisco .  “Never before have so many effective HIV prevention tools
and strategies been available,” he said.  Grant’s earlier study, called iPrEx, showed giving Gilead’s
Truvada to gay men who didn’t have HIV reduced their infection
rates by 44 percent.  Lower Viral Levels  In the study reported yesterday, patients were treated with
a triple combination of drugs chosen from among 11 options, with
the goal of reducing the amount of virus in their blood to
undetectable levels. Researchers hypothesized that HIV patients
with lower viral levels would be less likely to infect their
partners, and the earlier treatment starts, the greater the
benefit.  Half started taking the drugs immediately after joining the
trial, and the other half waited until their CD4 cells -- the
immune system cells attacked by the virus -- fell below 250 per
cubic millimeter of blood.  The study cost about $73 million and was carried out by the
HIV Prevention Trials Network. All the participants received
condoms and counseling on how best to prevent the spread of HIV.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  