-- 
Glencore Is Said to Get Double Orders Sought in $11 Billion Stock Offering

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-05-12T11:24:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/glencore-said-to-receive-ipo-orders-for-double-11-billion-shares-on-offer.html
Glencore International Plc received
enough demand from investors for its $11 billion initial public
offering to sell the shares more than twice over, according to
three people with knowledge of the matter.  Highbridge Capital Management LLC, a hedge fund owned by
JPMorgan Chase & Co., proposed a $500 million investment, said
one of the people, who declined to be identified because the
information isn’t yet public. The last orders for the offer are
due on May 18, with final pricing to be disclosed the following
day, according to a term sheet for the sale.  Demand for stock in the world’s largest commodities trader
has weathered a rout in raw materials prices last week, the
biggest in two years, which wiped out $99 billion of market
value. The IPO, the largest since General Motors Co. sold stock
in November, will give Glencore a value of $61 billion if priced
at the midpoint of its offer range, the company said last week.  Glencore is offering as many as 1.25 billion shares. London
shares are priced at 480 pence ($7.84) to 580 pence each, a
prospectus published last week shows. The company today priced
stock to be listed in  Hong Kong , representing 2.5 percent of the
total offer, at HK$61.24 ($7.88) to HK$79.18.  Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG and Morgan Stanley
are among banks managing the IPO. Current holders may sell
additional shares for tax purposes, while an overallotment
options brings the total offer to $11 billion.  Cornerstone Investors  Demand was spurred by interest from so-called cornerstone
investors, including Abu Dhabi’s sovereign wealth fund and
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , which agreed to buy 31 percent of the shares in
total, three people with knowledge of matter said last week,
declining to be identified because the information is private.  Glencore’s inclusion in the U.K.’s FTSE-100 Index of stocks
also likely fueled demand as it promotes buying by funds
tracking the benchmark,  Paul Galloway , a London-based analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd., wrote in a May 6 report.  Dave Millar, a spokesman for New York-based Highbridge, and
 Simon Buerk , a spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore,
both declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  Glencore “has got characteristics that are quite
attractive and that is because it’s not a pure commodity-related
play, that it is quite defensive,” JPMorgan’s  Ian Henderson , a
manager of about $10 billion in natural-resource assets, said in
a May 6 interview. “In theory Glencore should outperform in
periods of commodity price weakness. So it does have a role to
play in portfolios.”  Commodities Slump  Slumping commodities, on the other hand, erode the value of
Glencore’s corporate investments. The trader’s 10 largest
holdings, including a 34.5 percent stake in Xstrata Plc, fell
7.4 percent last week, slashing about $2.4 billion off their
value, according to an index of the company’s investments.  Slower U.S. services growth and fewer German manufacturing
orders helped drive the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw
materials down 11 percent, the most since December 2008.  Global investors have tempered their optimism about the
U.S. and world economies and plan to put more of their money in
cash and less in commodities over the next six months, a
Bloomberg survey found.  Almost 1 in 3 of those questioned said they will hold more
cash, while 30 percent intend to reduce investments in
commodities, according to a quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll of
1,263 investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg
subscribers. Both results were the highest since the survey
began asking the question last June.  Market ‘Froth’  Much of last week’s slump in commodity prices was the
result of “froth” in the market, “a lot of speculators who
are taking long-term positions on commodities,” Glencore Chief
Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg, speaking from  London , told a
Hong Kong press conference today. “We still see strong demand
in  Asia , continue to see mining companies struggling to produce,
to increase production to meet this demand. Underlying
fundamentals remain strong.”  Glencore is eligible as a “fast entrant” to the FTSE U.K.
Index Series and will be included in the FTSE-100 Index on May
25, FTSE said in a May 6 statement.  Inclusion in the index ensures Glencore “will become an
essential investment for index-tracking funds,” Bernstein’s
Galloway said. Such funds may buy about 13 percent of the
equities on offer in the IPO, he said.  “The fact that it is going be in the index early on means
that there is going to be natural buying,” Henderson said.  Glencore is ending more than three decades of operating as
a closely held partnership. The company changed its name from
Marc Rich & Co. after management bought out former fugitive U.S.
financier Rich in 1994. It employs 2,700 people at trading units
in 40 nations and about 54,800 people at industrial units in
more than 30 countries.  Aabar Investments PJSC, an investment arm of the  Abu Dhabi 
government, is investing $850 million, and BlackRock is buying
$360 million of shares, making them the two biggest cornerstone
investors. Credit Suisse,  Fidelity Investments , Government of
Singapore Investment Corp., UBS AG, Zijin Mining Group Co. and a
number of hedge funds are also investing, the prospectus shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 