-- 
Goldman Viewed Unfavorably by 54% as Poll Shows No Damage

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-05-12T20:42:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/goldman-sachs-viewed-unfavorably-by-54-in-poll-showing-no-damage-to-firm.html
Wall Street conventional wisdom holds
that a sterling reputation is crucial to winning business and
keeping clients.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  may be the exception,
according to a new Bloomberg survey.  Fifty-four percent of respondents to the global poll of
traders, investors and analysts conducted May 9-10 have an
unfavorable opinion of the New York-based bank, more than double
the negative rating for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Yet a month after a
U.S. Senate report said Goldman Sachs misled clients, 78 percent
of those surveyed said the accusations will either have no
effect on the firm or will harm its reputation without driving
away customers.  “Investors will continue to put their money with capable
institutions, regardless of their history or morality,” said an
e-mail from poll participant Christian Contino, 27, who works as
a consultant for the investment-management section of the  United
Nations ’  International Fund for Agricultural Development.  The
bank has “very capable spin doctors who will be able to
downplay any negativity.”  Stephen Cohen , a spokesman for the company, declined to
comment on the poll results and reactions.  Goldman Sachs, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Lloyd C. Blankfein, survived the financial crisis, unlike some
smaller rivals, and has been a target of criticism ever since.
The bank, the fifth-biggest in the U.S. by assets, agreed to pay
$550 million last year to settle a suit filed by the Securities
and Exchange Commission that alleged Goldman Sachs misled buyers
of a mortgage-linked investment the firm created in 2007.  Housing Bets  The Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, led
by Michigan Democrat Carl M. Levin, used Goldman Sachs as a case
study in its two-year examination of the financial crisis. When
the subcommittee released its 640-page report last month, Levin
said that Goldman Sachs misled clients and Congress about the
firm’s bets on the housing market.  “The testimony we gave was truthful and accurate and this
is confirmed by the subcommittee’s own report,” Lucas van Praag, a Goldman Sachs spokesman, said at the time.  “It seems unlikely that Goldman Sachs has to expect
further consequences,” said an e-mail from Daniel Horak, 26, a
trader at Erste Sparinvest KAG in Vienna,  Austria , who replied
in the poll that he had a “mostly unfavorable” view of the
firm and that he didn’t expect Goldman Sachs to lose customers.  Levin and Oklahoma Senator Thomas A. Coburn, the
subcommittee’s ranking Republican, formally referred their
report to the  Department of Justice  and the Securities and
Exchange Commission, which are reviewing the findings.  Impact on Reputation  The company was viewed less favorably than other banks by
the 1,263 poll respondents. While 54 percent said they had an
unfavorable view of Goldman Sachs, 25 percent felt the same
about JPMorgan, 49 percent for  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and 48 percent for
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Thirty-five percent had an unfavorable
view of Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , which was also singled
out in the U.S. Senate subcommittee report.  Blankfein, 56, has tried to burnish Goldman Sachs’s image.
After the SEC filed its lawsuit last year, he established a
committee to study the firm’s business standards. The
committee’s  report  in January made 39 recommendations, including
changing financial disclosures and providing simpler
explanations to clients about conflicts of interest.  Goldman Sachs also began an advertising campaign in
September that emphasizes the firm’s role in  job creation  and
alternative energy.  ‘Confidence Business’  “We have to regain the trust of the public, we have no
choice,” Blankfein said in an interview with Fareed Zakaria
that aired on CNN on May 2, 2010, according to a transcript.
“We can’t survive without people thinking well of us,” he
said, because “our business is a confidence business.”  The firm’s shares dropped $5.13, or 3.5 percent, to $142.75
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, their lowest
closing price since Sept. 2. The price remains below the $184.27
close on April 15, 2010, the day before the SEC filed its
lawsuit.  Richard Bove , an analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC,
recommended today that investors sell Goldman Sachs shares,
citing increased pressure on the U.S. Justice Department to
bring criminal charges against the firm.  Thirty-six percent of respondents said they were
“generally bullish” on Goldman Sachs stock six months from
now, while 32 percent were “generally bearish.” The rest had
no opinion. That divided sentiment is about where it was in June
2010.  ‘Very Supportive’  The company’s profit slid 38 percent last year as revenue
tumbled. Goldman Sachs ranks third this year among advisers on
global takeovers after coming in second during 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Our shareholders, our clients, have been very, very
supportive,” Blankfein said in the CNN interview. “They know
the essence of who we are, and frankly I think we still enjoy a
reputation with those -- a good reputation with those key
constituent groups.”  Goldman Sachs was 25th, two notches below JPMorgan Chase,
in an annual  ranking  of the world’s most admired companies by
Fortune magazine. The  results  are based on a survey of top
executives and directors from Fortune 1000 companies, Global 50
companies and other major non-U.S. companies, as well as
financial analysts, between October and December, according to
the Hay Group, which conducts the survey.  Goldman Sachs’s connections with government officials were
cited by some respondents to the Bloomberg survey as a reason
the firm is unlikely to be affected by the Senate report.  Goldman’s Alumni  “The regulatory capture by the likes of Goldman Sachs is a
done deal -- it is an open secret that GS alum spread through
the tentacles of public office,” said Arijit Banik, 42, a
senior manager in economics, pensions and hedging for RBC Dexia
in Toronto, in an e-mail. The firm “remains an inexorable cog
in the machinery of campaign financing in the U.S. electoral
system, where money talks.”  Goldman Sachs and its employees donated $31.4 million to
U.S. political parties between 1989 and 2010, more than any
other financial institution and the fourth-highest amount of any
organization, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington research group.  The UN fund’s Contino, who like 32 percent of poll
respondents said he had a favorable view of Goldman Sachs, was
also among the 42 percent who think that Blankfein will remain
chairman a year from now. Twenty-seven percent didn’t think
Blankfein would still have the job in a year and 31 percent had
no opinion.  “ Lloyd Blankfein  has done a great job over the past five
years,” Contino said. “If there has to be a fall guy, it won’t
be him.”  Main Street Ire  Noah Shapiro, director of risk management at Optim Energy
LLC in Irving,  Texas , was one of the poll respondents who said
Blankfein won’t be chairman in a year.  “Goldman has significantly drawn the ire of Main Street as
being the poster child of the inexorable greed that fomented the
credit crisis,” Shapiro, 34, said. “Blankfein will need to
fall on his sword as not only the head of Goldman Sachs, but
also as a chief luminary on the Street, to blot away the stain
of manipulative financial engineering.”  The quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll of investors, traders
and analysts who are Bloomberg subscribers was conducted by
Selzer & Co., a  Des Moines , Iowa-based firm. It has a margin of
error of plus or minus 2.8 percentage points.  “Opinions on Goldman Sachs are the same the world around,
with very little difference across the U.S., Europe or Asia,”
said J. Ann Selzer, president of Selzer & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  