-- 
Goldman Said to Plan Yuan Fund, Morgan Stanley Set to Follow

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-12T07:50:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/goldman-said-to-set-up-yuan-denominated-private-equity-fund.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  plans to set
up a yuan-denominated private equity fund in China, according to
two people with knowledge of the matter, while Morgan Stanley
said it would announce a similar fund next week.  Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein attended a
ceremony for Goldman Sachs in Beijing today, the people said,
declining to be identified before an announcement. The bank and
its Chinese partner will seek to raise 5 billion yuan ($769
million), another person said. Morgan Stanley plans to hold an
event on May 18 to mark the start of its first yuan fund.  The U.S. banks would follow  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Carlyle
Group  in raising funds to compete with local rivals including
Hony Capital Ltd. as  China  steps up efforts to develop its own
buyout firms and strengthen capital markets. Private-equity
investments in China jumped 40 percent to $19.7 billion last
year, according to the Asian Venture Capital Journal.  “Regulatory-wise, it is still a bit cumbersome for the
foreign players,” Johnson Chng, head of financial services at
Bain & Co. in  Shanghai , said by telephone today. For “some of
the industries, the foreign names may be deemed to be too
sensitive, such as in strategically important industries.”  Goldman Sachs will set up the Broad Street (Beijing) RMB
Fund, its first single-country pool of investment capital, with
Beijing State-Owned Capital Operation and Management Center, a
person said. Richard Friedman, head of merchant banking for
Goldman Sachs, was also at today’s ceremony, the person said.  Angela Yu, a Beijing-based spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs,
declined to comment.  U.S. Limitations  Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity manager, in
2009 became the first global buyout firm to announce plans for a
local-currency fund in China, followed by TPG Inc. and Carlyle.
The three firms have announced plans to raise a combined 20
billion yuan ($3.1 billion) for such funds.  Blankfein, who is approaching his fifth anniversary as
Goldman Sachs’s chairman and CEO, is grappling with limits on
proprietary trading and investments in  hedge funds  and private-
equity funds imposed by the U.S.’s Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul
law. The bank’s biggest businesses, trading and investing, are
also the ones most affected by new global  capital requirements .  In China,  Asia ’s biggest private-equity market over the
past three years, foreign buyout firms are facing stiffer
competition from local rivals as former executives at Goldman
Sachs and Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. set up their own funds.  Local Rivals  CDB Capital, a unit of China Development Bank Corp., said
in December it plans to raise about 60 billion yuan from
domestic financial institutions for investment in private equity
funds. China International Capital Corp., Citic Securities Co.
and Haitong Securities Co. won approval to raise yuan-
denominated funds for their private-equity units, the Securities
Times said in February, citing an unidentified person.  Foreign private-equity investors face restrictions on
buying assets in China, such as  capital controls  and limited
access to industries designated by the government as
strategically important.  Washington-based Carlyle Group, the world’s second-biggest
private-equity firm, formed an investment management venture
with Beijing State-owned Capital Operation and Management
Center, it said in July.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Hangzhou Industrial & Commercial Trust
Co. plan to hold an opening ceremony next week for their
private-equity venture in Hangzhou, according to an e-mailed
invitation for the event that was confirmed by Noel Cheung, a
spokeswoman for the New York-based bank. Hangzhou Industrial
executives couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  