-- 
Goldman Sachs Drops as Rochdale’s Bove Says Sell on Pressure to Prosecute

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-05-12T20:32:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/goldman-sachs-drops-as-rochdale-s-bove-says-sell-on-pressure-to-prosecute.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  closed at
its lowest level in more than eight months after an analyst told
investors to sell the stock on concern that the  Department of
Justice  faces growing pressure to bring claims against the firm.  The bank dropped $5.13, or 3.5 percent, to $142.75 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest decline since
a 4.7 percent decrease on Jan. 19. The last time the stock
closed lower was Sept. 2.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, was
one of three banks singled out last month in a report on the
financial crisis by the U.S. Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations. The panel, whose findings were referred to the
 Justice Department  and the Securities and Exchange Commission,
said Goldman Sachs misled clients about its bets on mortgage-
related investments.  “It now appears that the pressure on the Justice
Department to bring a criminal lawsuit against Goldman is
building to a high pitch,” Richard X. Bove, an analyst at
Rochdale Securities LLC, said in a note today to investors.  Stephen Cohen , a spokesman at New York-based Goldman Sachs,
declined to comment on Bove’s note and the stock price decline.  Bove, who is based in Lutz,  Florida , is one of two analysts
with a negative rating on Goldman Sachs, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The other is  Christopher Wheeler , a
London-based analyst for Mediobanca SpA. Of 28 analysts
surveyed, 17 recommend that investors buy the stock and nine
call for holding it.  ‘Vampire Squid’  Bove cited a new  article  by writer Matt Taibbi in Rolling
Stone magazine that says the Justice Department should
criminally charge Goldman Sachs based on the subcommittee’s
report. In a 2009  story  for Rolling Stone, Taibbi wrote an
article about Goldman Sachs that labeled the firm “a great
vampire squid wrapped around the face of humanity.”  “The new Matt Taibbi article in Rolling Stone magazine is
another all-out attack on the company,” Bove wrote in today’s
note. “However, this time the attack is backed by a 650-page
report signed by both a Democrat and a Republican.”  Goldman’s Cohen also declined to comment on Taibbi’s
article.  Attorney General Eric H. Holder, testifying before the
House Judiciary Committee on May 3, confirmed that his
department is reviewing the Senate’s report, which was led by
Michigan Democrat Carl M. Levin and Oklahoma Republican Thomas A. Coburn.  ‘Not Losing Sleep’  “The department is looking right now at the report
prepared by Senator Levin’s subcommittee that deals with Goldman
Sachs,” he said.  When the report was released, Goldman Sachs said it never
misled anyone about its behavior. “The testimony we gave was
truthful and accurate and this is confirmed by the
subcommittee’s own report,” a Goldman Sachs spokesman, Lucas van Praag, said at the time.  Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein who
recommends that investors buy Goldman Sachs stock, said he
doesn’t share Bove’s concerns about the political risk to
Goldman Sachs.  “At this point, I’m not losing sleep over more theater
from within the Beltway,” Hintz said in an e-mailed reply to
questions. “GS remains the leading investment bank in the
world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 