-- 
Goldman’s O’Neill Forecasts Big Rally in Chinese Stocks as Inflation Eases

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-05-12T05:39:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/goldman-s-o-neill-says-china-inflation-won-t-be-a-problem-in-second-half.html
Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman
Sachs Asset Management, said  China ’s inflation “won’t be a
problem” in the second half of this year and the government
will stop tightening policies as price gains moderate.  “China’s economy is probably slowing down more than people
realize,” O’Neill, who oversees $677 billion of assets and
coined the acronym BRIC for the economies of Brazil, Russia,
 India  and China, told reporters in  Hong Kong  today. Chinese
stocks may have a “big rally” in the second half if his
assessment is correct, he added.  Inflation stayed above 5 percent for a second month in
April, exceeding Premier Wen Jiabao’s 4 percent target, a
government report showed yesterday. Daiwa Capital Markets says
policy makers face a “dilemma” because of the risk that
measures to curb prices will lead to a slowdown in the world’s
fastest-growing major economy.  China’s expansion may slow to about 8 percent in June
through December, O’Neill said. The economy grew 9.7 percent in
the first quarter from a year earlier.  The People’s Bank of China has raised  interest rates  four
times since mid-October and reined in credit growth that surged
to a record in 2009. Inflation was an annual 5.3 percent in
April, while industrial production expanded 13.4 percent, the
least since November, yesterday’s report showed.  “It’s not surprising at all, given the importance of China,
that commodities prices are under some pressure,” O’Neill said.
Copper dropped to a five-month low today on concern that the
nation’s monetary tightening may continue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net 
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  