-- 
Telmex Says Court Forces Government Decision on Video Plan

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-05-12T03:38:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/government-must-decide-on-telmex-video-services-correct-.html
Telefonos de Mexico SAB said a
federal court ruled that the government must decide whether the
nation’s largest phone carrier can offer video services.  The ruling forces the Communications and Transportation
 Ministry  to rule on Telmex’s request for a license to offer
video service, the Mexico City-based company said today in a
statement. The government has 15 days to make a decision, said
Gerardo Sanchez Henkel, the ministry’s head of legal affairs.  Telmex, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s America
Movil SAB, is seeking the right to offer video to compete
against cable carriers controlled by  Grupo Televisa SA (TLEVICPO)  that
offer packages of phone, Internet and TV. Telmex lost 29,000
lines last quarter for a total of 15.6 million as customers
switched to its cable rivals. Telmex controls about 80 percent
of the nation’s fixed phone lines and about 70 percent of
Internet lines.  The ministry has the option to allow or deny Telmex from
offering video services, or grant permission after certain
conditions are met, Sanchez Henkel said in an interview
broadcast on Radio Formula.  “The ruling is not ordering us to change or eliminate the
restriction. It’s ordering us to resolve Telmex’s petition,” he
said.  The company will await the ministry’s approval before it
starts a pay-TV plan, said an official who can’t be named under
company policy.  Telmex fell 7 centavos to 10.42 pesos today in  Mexico  City
trading. The shares have gained 4.1 percent this year before
today.  Chief Financial Officer Adolfo Cerezo said last month
Telmex has an option to buy a controlling stake in satellite
provider Dish Mexico if it gets approval for video service. The
company may also offer TV over its phone lines, he said.  Waiting Since 2006  Telmex has waited for a video license from the government
since 2006, when the communications ministry announced
regulations to allow companies to provide video, voice and
Internet services. In 2008, regulators issued rules to allow
consumers to switch telephone providers while keeping the same
phone number, and Telmex complied with the guidelines, a
requirement to get the video license.  Televisa has about 5 million pay-TV subscribers, including
about 3 million for its Sky satellite service and 2 million in
three cable operators. Dish Mexico, controlled by MVS
Comunicaciones SA and  EchoStar Corp. (SATS) , is the nation’s second-
biggest TV provider, with about 2.2 million users as of the end
of last year. The biggest individual cable company is Megacable
Holdings SAB, with 1.7 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  