-- 
Greece Had 13 Currency Swaps With Goldman, Eurostat Says

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-05-12T16:41:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/greece-had-13-currency-swaps-with-goldman-eurostat-says-1-.html
Greece had 13 off-market derivative
contracts with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , most of which swapped
Japanese yen into euros in a 2001 transaction aimed at
concealing the true size of the nation’s debt, according to the
European Union’s statistics office.  The amount borrowed through the swaps was due to be repaid
with an interest-rate swap that would have spread payments
through 2019, Eurostat said in a  report  on its website today. In
2005, the maturity was extended to 2037, the report said.
Restructuring the swaps spread the cost over a longer period,
leading to an increase in liabilities and debt, Eurostat said.  Repeated revisions of Greece’s figures, beginning in 2009,
spurred a surge in borrowing costs that pushed the country to
the brink of default and triggered a region-wide debt crisis.
The use of off-market swaps, which  Greece  hadn’t previously
disclosed as debt, let the country increase borrowings by 5.3
billion euros ($7.5 billion), Eurostat said in November.  Today’s report provides details of Eurostat’s analysis of
data obtained by its inspectors in Greece last year. Eurostat
said most issues surrounding the swaps were resolved in
September, when Greece agreed to correct its debt figures.  A phone call and an e-mail to a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman
in  London  weren’t immediately returned.  Greece agreed in September with Eurostat to treat other
swaps from 2005 as debt. Those contracts had “very short
maturity, with a quick amortization of the loan component,”
Eurostat said.  The Goldman Sachs deal originally amounted to a loan of 2.8
billion euros, according to Eurostat.  National Bank of Greece
SA (ETE) , the country’s biggest lender, in 2005 took over the swap
from New York-based Goldman Sachs. Four years later, National
Bank securitized the swap, Eurostat said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 