-- 
Libyan Rebels Advance as They Seek Further Help From U.S., U.K.

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-05-12T23:46:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/libya-rebels-advance-toward-brega-after-taking-control-of-misrata-airport.html
Libyan rebels are making gains in the
three-month conflict against  Muammar Qaddafi ’s troops, advancing
on the strategic oil town of Brega along the central coast after
fighters gained control of most of Misrata.  The rebels, who control most of eastern Libya, also say
they are pushing westward from Misrata, which lies about 180
kilometers (116 miles) east of Tripoli, the capital. Their
political leaders visited  Washington  and London seeking aid,
including access to frozen assets, as NATO bombed Tripoli.  “The rebels may be getting the upper hand because of
external support, but it is too early to call,”  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based Institute for
Near East and Gulf Military Analysis, said in response to e-
mailed questions. “We have to wait to see if another brick wall
emerges. Qaddafi may have more tricks up his sleeve.”  The insurgency against Qaddafi’s four-decade rule in  Libya ,
which has Africa’s biggest proven crude reserves, has helped
push up  oil prices  by almost 15 percent since mid-February.
Crude oil for June delivery yesterday increased 76 cents to
settle at $98.97 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Prices are up 31 percent from a year ago.  In Washington, a delegation from the opposition Libyan
Transitional National Council is scheduled to meet today at the
White House with Tom Donilon, President  Barack Obama ’s national
security adviser, the administration said in a statement.
Delegation leader Mahmoud Jibril, scheduled also to meet with
Undersecretary of Defense Michele Flournoy, is appealing to
administration officials and lawmakers on  Capitol Hill  to allow
access to frozen Libyan assets to fund the rebels’ fight and
provide humanitarian assistance.  Qaddafi’s Move  NATO forces struck Qaddafi’s Tripoli compound early
yesterday, hours after the Libyan leader appeared on state
television for the first time since April 30, when NATO attacks
on his compound killed his son Saif al-Arab and three of his
grandchildren. A Libyan official said that Qaddafi had moved
away from the Bab al-Aziziya compound some time ago, the
 Associated Press  reported.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization denied a Libyan
government report that it had bombed the North Korean embassy in
Tripoli. The target hit was a “large” command-and-control
bunker located 500 meters from the embassy, the alliance said in
a statement.  Warships from  Canada , the U.K. and France early yesterday
thwarted an attack on Misrata’s port by “a number of fast,
small boats” and the alliance ships came under artillery fire
from regime forces ashore as the small boats retreated, NATO
said on its website.  ‘Bankrupt Regime’  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said yesterday in London
that the rebels’ Transitional National Council represents the
future of Libya and that he had asked the group to set up an
office in  London .  The U.K. will also provide equipment valued at “several
million pounds” to the police in Benghazi and enhance Britain’s
presence in the rebel stronghold, Cameron said.  “We will work with you to ensure the international
community increases the economic, diplomatic and military
pressure on this bankrupt regime,” Cameron said at a  press
conference  with Mustafa Abdul Jalil, the head of the council.  Rebel fighters in Misrata were able to push back government
forces using newly arrived light weapons, Jalil said, speaking
during a separate press conference in London with Foreign
Secretary  William Hague . He expected the people of Tripoli to
rise up and overthrow Qaddafi, whom he described as a
“legitimate target.”  ‘Successive Victories’  “The revolutionary forces in Misrata have achieved
successive victories as a result of shipments of light weapons
that they were able to obtain,” Jalil said. “If we have the
minimum amount of armaments for our fighters in Misrata, az-
Zawiya and Zuwarah, then this will have a great impact on the
revolution within Tripoli. This is what we are hoping for.”  Since the start of its mission, NATO has completed more
than 2,400 so-called strike sorties, when warplanes identify
targets though don’t always fire munitions, according to a
statement on the alliance’s website. Among the targets on May 10
were six vehicle storage sites, three ammunition deposits and a
surface-to-air missile launcher, NATO said. About 20 NATO ships
are patrolling the central  Mediterranean Sea .  The rebels appointed new economy and interior ministers for
their executive body on May 11. Abdullah Shamiya, who spent
years as a political prisoner under Qaddafi, was named economy
minister, Abdel Hafiz Ghoga, vice president of the Transitional
National Council, said in a telephone interview. A judge, Ahmed
Hussein, was appointed minister for the interior and local
governance, Ghoga said.  The Libyan consul in Cairo, Faraj Saeed Al-Arabi, said in
comments aired yesterday on Al Arabiya television that he was
resigning and joining the rebels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  