-- 
Iceland Views Arctic Oil Rush With ‘Apprehension,’ Minister Says

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-05-12T13:52:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/iceland-views-arctic-oil-rush-with-apprehension-minister-says.html
Iceland , the island that suffered
 Europe ’s biggest banking meltdown during the financial crisis,
is viewing the rush to develop oil in the Arctic region with
“apprehension,” Foreign Minister Ossur Skarphedinsson said.  “There’s quite a lot of excitement about it in Iceland,
but also apprehension because we literally are in the affluent
of the  Arctic Ocean  so a spillage could have some serious
consequences for countries like ours, as well as the Faeroes and
Greenland,” Skarphedinsson said in an interview in Nuuk. “That
is why it is important that the Arctic Council takes the
initiative that only the safest practices will be used.”  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Russian Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov are holding talks with other ministers
from the eight nations that lay claim to the Arctic in
 Greenland ’s capital Nuuk today. The Arctic Council’s ministerial
meeting comes a year after BP Plc’s Macondo well disaster spewed
almost 5 million barrels into the  Gulf of Mexico .  The U.S. will push for the council to create an Arctic oil
spill response taskforce, while Greenland, which has raised the
number of oil and gas licenses awarded 10-fold since 2005, will
propose an international oil spill fund. The council is under
pressure to take forceful measures after the Macondo accident
and will sign its first internationally binding agreement today,
with a search-and-rescue treaty.  ‘Common Good’  “It’s very important that we start work on an
international mechanism that serves to prevent and contain
pollution at sea, especially oil spillage,” Skarphedinsson
said. “Just the fact that we are going today to sign a new
agreement on search and rescue has served to show that we can
use the Arctic Council as a venue to serve our common good and
as well to take initiative to legally binding frameworks.”  The Arctic may hold 90 billion barrels of oil, more than
the combined known reserves of Nigeria, Kazakhstan and  Mexico ,
the  U.S. Geological Survey  said in 2008.  Iceland will “probably” hold a second tender for
exploration and production licenses this summer, the minister
said. “We have oil and gas deposits in the north-eastern part
of our economic zone bordering on the territory that is under
 Norway .”  The island’s first licensing round in 2009 was derailed
after four companies pulled out. The country had offered blocks
in a 42,700 square kilometer area in the north-east Dreki
region, located in the southern part of the Jan Mayen Ridge.  “The wealth of Iceland today and the well-being of the
people rest on three things: tourism of course, our fisheries
and renewable energy,” Skarphedinsson said. “Energy has been
very, very important in our economy and down the road oil will
definitely be very important. But it’s quite some time until
that happens.”  The Arctic Council’s member states are  Canada , Denmark,
Finland, Iceland, Norway,  Russia , Sweden and the U.S. The
council was established in 1996 and its ministers meet
biannually.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Greenland at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  