-- 
Midwest, Gulf Gasoline Gain on River Slowdown, Refinery Issues

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-05-12T19:49:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/midwest-gulf-gasoline-gain-on-river-slowdown-refinery-issues.html
Gasoline in the Midwest and  Gulf
Coast  strengthened as CVR Energy Inc. worked to return a
reformer to normal operations and some terminals shut dock
operations on the  Mississippi  because of high water levels.  Production is heading to normal levels at CVR’s 120,000-
barrel-a-day Coffeyville,  Kansas , refinery, said Steve Eames, a
company spokesman. The plant trimmed rates after a fire, CVR
Chief Executive John Lipinski said on a conference call May 10.  The premium for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in the
Midwest, or Group 3 market rose 3.25 cent to 8.5 cents a gallon
versus futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
2:45 p.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
largest premium since September. Prompt delivery slipped 2.53
cents to $3.15 a gallon.  Group 3 premiums increased this week as  Chicago  has been a
more profitable destination for Gulf Coast gasoline. Shipping
gasoline to Chicago on the Explorer pipeline from Houston costs
about 0.5 cent a gallon more than a shorter run to Tulsa,
Oklahoma in the Group 3 area.  The same fuel in Chicago slipped 0.5 cent to a premium of
15.5 cents a gallon, after reaching 21 cents May 9.  Barge traffic on the Mississippi slowed as water levels
rose and docks shut. Magellan Midstream Partners LP’s Marrero,
 Louisiana , terminal is operational as they restrict the receipt
of small barges at a dock, according to Bruce Heine, a spokesman
for the company.  The premium for gasoline in the Gulf Coast rose 0.95 cent
to 3.7 cents a gallon.  Krotz Springs  Alon USA Energy Inc. (ALJ)  may be forced to curtail or shut
production at its 83,000-barrel-a-day Krotz Springs refinery,
located on the Atchafalaya River, if a spillway is opened to
relieve water levels on the adjacent Mississippi.  “This remains a rapidly changing situation and there is
uncertainty as to the ultimate effects of opening the Morganza
Spillway, but we believe that any interruptions of barge and
pipeline service that result could prevent the refinery from
running at full rates for several weeks,” Alon said in a
statement yesterday.  “It is also possible that we may be required to fully idle
the facility for some of this time due to logistical or safety
issues,” the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 