-- 
Watney Holds One-Shot Lead at Players Event as Woods Withdraws With Injury

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-05-12T23:35:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/tiger-woods-shoots-7-on-par-4-fourth-hole-at-players-championship-tourney.html
Nick Watney  shot an 8-under-par 64 to
take a one-shot lead after the first round of golf’s  Players 
championship, where  Tiger Woods  withdrew after nine holes
because of knee and ankle injuries.  Watney’s round, which included an eagle, nine birdies, a
bogey and a double bogey, was one shot off of the tournament
record for 18 holes.  “I made a double and a bogey, so there’s room for
improvement,” Watney told reporters at the TPC at Sawgrass in
Ponte Vedra Beach,  Florida . “But overall I felt very much in
control. I wish I could have kept going, really.”  Lucas Glover, last week’s winner of the U.S. PGA Tour’s
Wells Fargo Championship in Charlotte, North Carolina, is second
at 7-under, one shot ahead of 54-year-old Mark O’Meara and David Toms. PGA Championship winner  Martin Kaymer  of Germany and U.S.
Open champion Graeme McDowell are in a group of five players a
further stroke back. Defending champion  Tim Clark  shot 2-over 74,
while  Phil Mickelson  is 1-under.  “I’m disappointed in myself,” Mickelson said in a
televised interview. “I let a lot of shots slide, especially on
the greens.”  Masters Injuries  Woods, who also withdrew from the sport’s richest event
last year with a bad neck, is recovering from injuries sustained
during the  Masters Tournament  last month. He was 6-over-par 42
through his opening nine holes when he decided to stop playing.
It was Woods’s first appearance since the Masters, where he tied
for fourth.  “It’s hard to put much pressure on it right now,” Woods
said in a televised news conference. “It’s been a bit of a
struggle.”  He skipped last week’s event because of the injury and is
unsure if he will be able to play in the  U.S. Open , golf’s
second major tournament of the year, at Congressional Country
Club in Bethesda,  Maryland , beginning June 16.  “I don’t know,” Woods said. “Give me a few days to see
what the doc says.”  The next event Woods would normally play is the  Memorial
Tournament  in Ohio, scheduled for June 2-5.  Run of Errors  Woods, who has fallen to No. 8 in the  Official World Golf
Ranking , opened with a bogey and made a triple-bogey 7 on the
par-4 fourth hole. He also dropped shots on the par-4 fifth and
ninth holes and was tied for last place among players who had
begun play when he walked off the course.  Woods, who has 14 major championships and held the No. 1
ranking for a record 281 weeks, hasn’t won any tournament since
November 2009. That was just before a one-car accident left him
with facial injuries and led to the disclosure of marital
infidelity that resulted in his divorce and loss of sponsorships.  Prior to his withdrawal from the 2010 Players, the last
time Woods pulled out of a tournament as a professional was at
the 2006 Nissan Open in  Los Angeles , when he had the flu. As an
amateur, he dropped out of the 1995 U.S. Open at Shinnecock
Hills Golf Club in Southampton,  New York , with a wrist injury.  Woods, 35, has battled injuries since winning the 2008 U.S.
Open at  California ’s Torrey Pines Golf Course with a broken left
leg. He said he’s also being hampered by a strained Achilles
tendon.  The knee injury flared up on his opening tee shot, Woods
said. The Achilles strain then started to bother him, before he
felt pain in his left calf.  “Everything started getting tight,” Woods said. “It’s
just a whole chain reaction.”  The Players championship, which Woods won in 2001, has a
purse of $9.5 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  