-- 
IMF Says ECB Has Time to Keep Interest Rate Rise Gradual

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-05-12T09:38:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/imf-says-ecb-has-time-to-keep-interest-rate-rise-gradual-1-.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
the  European Central Bank  has time to keep borrowing costs on
hold as the euro-region economy gathers strength.  “ Monetary policy  in the euro area can afford to remain
relatively accommodative, though normalization lies ahead as
economic slack gradually dissipates,” the Washington-based fund
said in its  Regional Economic Outlook  published today. Under the
IMF’s projection for all of  Europe , “the large increase in food
and energy prices remains temporary and does not trigger
generalized inflation through second-round effects, obviating
the need for sharp monetary tightening.”  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled on May 5 the
central bank may keep the benchmark at 1.25 percent next month
after increasing borrowing costs for the first time in almost
three years in April to fight price pressures. While euro-region
inflation quickened to 2.8 percent in April, policy makers are
assessing the impact of tougher austerity measures.  “At the moment we don’t see inflation becoming a
problem,” IMF European Director Antonio Borges said at a press
conference in  Frankfurt  today. “Even though there are
inflationary pressures, we don’t see them contaminating wages”
while a strong euro is also slowing inflation, he said.  The IMF forecasts the 17-member euro-region economy to grow
1.6 percent this year and 1.8 percent in 2012 with inflation
averaging 2.3 percent and 1.7 percent, respectively. The ECB
aims to keep inflation just below 2 percent.  ‘Pressing Challenge’  “Europe is doing well overall -- both western Europe and
eastern Europe -- and our projections for the coming months are
actually quite positive,” Borges said in a statement. “In
advanced Europe, policy makers need to take steps to restore
confidence” by cutting budget deficits and improving
competitiveness, he said.  The remarks underline the challenges faced by European
governments as they seek to stem the crisis that led the
European Union and the IMF to organize bailouts for  Greece  and
Ireland last year and prepare one for Portugal in the past
month. The euro has dropped about 4 percent against the dollar
this month on speculation Greece may be forced to default.  The IMF said that “downside risks to the outlook
dominate” with Europe’s debt crisis the “most pressing
challenge.”  “Strong policy responses have successfully contained the
sovereign-debt and financial-sector troubles in the euro-area
periphery so far, but contagion to the core euro area, and then
onward to emerging Europe, remains a tangible downside risks,”
it said. “Negative feedback loops between concerns about the
stability of government and bank balance sheets are proving
difficult to break.”  ‘Fiscal Health’  The  Greek economy  will shrink 3 percent this year, while
 Portugal  will contract 1.5 percent, the IMF said. In Ireland and
 Spain , the economies may return to growth, expanding 0.5 percent
and 0.8 percent, respectively.  The IMF called on governments to step up reform efforts to
help restore “fiscal health.” Bank stress tests this year will
help “address remaining vulnerabilities,” it said.  “Efforts to strengthen the banking systems in vulnerable
countries will need to accelerate,” the fund said. “Policies
to promote deeper integration of the European Union financial
system, including cross-border mergers and acquisitions, should
be part of the solution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  