-- 
IMF’s No. 2 Official Lipsky Will Leave Post on August 31

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-05-12T20:55:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/imf-s-no-2-official-lipsky-will-leave-post-on-august-31-1-.html
John Lipsky , the first deputy
managing director of the  International Monetary Fund , will leave
his post when his current term expires on Aug. 31, the IMF said
by e-mail today.  The position, which Lipsky took over in September 2006, is
the IMF’s second-highest and is traditionally held by a U.S.
citizen. It gives the 64-year-old Lipsky a high profile that
includes rounds of speeches at various forums and occasionally
serving as chairman of IMF meetings.  IMF Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , in the e-
mailed statement, called Lipsky “an influential proponent of
multilateralism and deeper financial surveillance.”  Lipsky, a former vice chairman of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
worked at the IMF for 10 years before leaving for  Wall Street  in
1984. He spent much of his career as an economist and researcher
at Salomon Brothers Inc. and Chase Manhattan Corp.  A graduate of Wesleyan University, who also has a doctorate
in economics from Stanford University, Lipsky has been involved
in his current job in IMF financial surveillance as well as with
the Group of 20 nations.  Lipsky will stay on as a “special adviser” through the
G-20 summit in November at the request of Strauss-Kahn, the IMF
statement said.  He was appointed by Strauss-Kahn’s predecessor Rodrigo de Rato at a time when the IMF was criticized as irrelevant before
the global financial crisis began.  Since then, the IMF had its resources tripled by the G-20,
has helped rescue economies from Ukraine to  Greece  and was
tasked by leaders with a host of new missions that prompted the
institution to raise its budget last month.  The search for a replacement, who will need the approval of
the IMF board, has started, the fund said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  