-- 
India Factory Output Rises Most in Five Months, Adding to Inflation Fears

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-05-12T09:50:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/india-factory-output-rises-most-in-five-months-adding-to-inflation-fears.html
India ’s industrial production grew at
the fastest pace in five months, underscoring the central bank’s
concerns that consumer demand is stoking inflation. Stocks fell.  Output at factories, utilities and mines rose 7.3 percent
in March from a year earlier after a revised 3.7 percent gain in
February, the commerce ministry said in a statement in New Delhi
today. The median estimate of 30 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 4 percent increase.  The  Reserve Bank  of India last week boosted  interest rates 
for the ninth time in 15 months to damp price gains that are the
highest among  Asia ’s major economies. The  International Monetary
Fund , Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG expect
India’s expansion to ease this year as borrowing costs rise.  “The central bank will have to tighten rates more to cool
inflation as this data suggests overall demand remains strong,”
said  Ramya Suryanarayanan , an economist at DBS Group Holdings
Ltd. in  Singapore . “By the end of the year growth will moderate
because of rising borrowing costs.”  She said there is a possibility of a quarter-point increase
in rates in the next policy announcement scheduled for June 16
after earlier predicting no change.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index fell 1.4
percent at 2:52 p.m. in Mumbai. The rupee weakened 0.6 percent
to 44.97 against the dollar, while the yield on the 7.8 percent
note due April 2021 dropped six basis points to 8.23 percent.  Manufacturing Surge  Manufacturing climbed 7.9 percent in March from a year
earlier compared with a 3.6 percent gain in February, today’s
report showed. Mining output increased 0.2 percent and
electricity advanced 7.2 percent.  Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao ’s half a percentage point
increase in the central bank’s repurchase rate to 7.25 percent
on May 3 was the biggest move since July 2008, as he forecast
price gains to stay at an “elevated level” until September.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation accelerated to
8.98 percent in March, overshooting the central bank’s 8 percent
estimate. The price gauge may cool to 8.4 percent in April,
according to the median forecast of 11 economists in a Bloomberg
survey ahead of an announcement scheduled for May 16. The food
inflation rate in India fell to 7.7 percent in the week ended
April 30, the lowest level since March 2009, the commerce
ministry said in a separate statement today.  India’s April inflation may be in the range of 8.5 percent
to 8.6 percent,  Kaushik Basu , chief economic adviser in the
 finance ministry , told reporters in  New Delhi  today.  By comparison, consumer prices rose 5.3 percent in  China 
and 4.2 percent in  South Korea .  Inflation Forecast  Rate increases in India will slow growth this year and help
ease inflation to 6 percent “with an upward bias” by March 31,
2012, Subbarao said last week.  India’s economy  may expand
“around 8 percent” in the year through March from 8.6 percent
in the previous 12 months, he estimated.  Asia’s third-biggest economy may grow 8.2 percent in 2011
from 10.4 percent in the prior 12 months, the IMF said April 28.
Goldman Sachs cut its estimate for gross domestic product
expansion in India to 7.8 percent from 8.7 percent for the
fiscal year ending March 31, 2012, while Credit Suisse lowered
it to 7.5 percent from 7.7 percent.  India will recalculate its growth forecast for the current
fiscal year after taking into account the impact of higher oil
costs, the finance ministry’s Basu said today. The economy may
grow as much as 9.25 percent, the ministry said in February.  Consumer Demand  For now, indicators such as the purchasing managers’ index
and credit expansion signal consumer demand is holding up.  Manufacturing output grew in April at the fastest pace in
five months, according to the PMI data released by HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics. Commercial credit given by lenders
including  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the nation’s biggest private bank,
rose 22 percent from the previous year as of April 22, more than
the 19 percent rate prescribed by the Reserve Bank.  India plans to unveil a new industrial output index in June
that will use a different base year and have about 400 items, up
from the 283 in the current index, to give a more “realistic
picture” of industrial output, M.C. Singhi, a senior economic
adviser at the Department of Industrial Policy and Planning in
New Delhi, said in a May 11 interview.  India’s exports climbed 34.4 percent to $23.9 billion in
April from a year earlier, trade secretary Rahul Khullar said in
New Delhi today. Imports gained 14.1 percent to $32.8 billion.  Price Woes  “The underlying growth is quite robust and the main worry
at this point in time is inflation fueled by strong demand,”
Rupa Rege Nitsure, a Mumbai-based economist at  Bank of Baroda ,
said before the report. She expects the central bank to boost
rates by another 75 basis points by March 31.  Inflation will accelerate further as the government raises
fuel prices, said Jay Shankar, a Mumbai-based chief economist at
Religare Capital Markets Ltd.  The end of elections this week in five provinces gives
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government room to ease fuel
price controls on state refiners.  Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s biggest state-run refiner
hasn’t increased diesel prices since June 26 and gasoline since
Jan. 16, according to the company’s website.  Crude  oil prices  have risen 31 percent in the past year.  A meeting of a panel of Indian ministers scheduled for May
11 to consider raising fuel prices was deferred to May 17 or May
18, oil minister S. Jaipal Reddy said May 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  