-- 
India Seeks Uranium Mines Overseas

-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 
2011-05-12T23:02:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/india-seeks-uranium-mines-overseas-to-expand-nuclear-capacity.html
India , aiming to increase atomic-
energy generation capacity 13-fold in the next two decades, is
in talks with  Kazakhstan , Niger and Namibia to acquire uranium
mines, the head of the nation’s nuclear program said.  Negotiations are also being held with  Canada  for importing
the reactor fuel and an accord may be signed “soon,” said
Srikumar Banerjee, chairman of the  Atomic Energy Commission .
India, which buys uranium from France, Russia and Kazakhstan,
will push ahead with its nuclear-energy program, he said.  “We want to have a comfortable supply situation, at least
for the next four to five years,” Banerjee said yesterday in an
interview. “It’s necessary that we diversify our source of
uranium.”  India, whose nuclear plants comprise about 3 percent of its
electricity capacity, is adding safeguards to its atomic program
following the March 11 earthquake and tsunami in  Japan . The
accident knocked out power equipment and cooling systems at
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant and caused
the worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl 25 years ago.  India plans to increase its nuclear-generation capacity to
60 gigawatts by 2030, according to the Planning Commission.
Nuclear Power Corp. of India, the nation’s monopoly atomic-
energy producer, said on April 13 it’s considering a venture
with state-run  Uranium Corp. of India  to buy mines overseas.  Higher uranium supplies helped Nuclear Power Corp. boost
generation capacity 41 percent to a record 26.47 billion units
in the year ended March 31, Finance Director Jagdeep Ghai said
yesterday by telephone. The company expects to lift capacity to
32 billion units this year, he said.  India’s annual domestic uranium production is expected to
double to about 800 tons by 2014 from mines in the eastern state
of Jharkhand and the southern state of  Andhra Pradesh , Banerjee
said. The country is developing a new mine in Tummalapalle in
Andhra Pradesh with reserves of 49,000 tons, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  