-- 
Indian Rupee Declines Most in 11 Weeks as Importers Buy Dollars

-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 
2011-05-12T11:45:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/india-s-rupee-declines-most-in-a-week-as-importers-buy-dollars.html
India ’s rupee fell the most in 11
weeks on speculation local companies stepped up dollar purchases
to buy raw materials, taking advantage of a recent decline in
commodity prices.  The currency has weakened 1.7 percent this month as the UBS
Bloomberg Constant Maturity Commodity Index retreated almost 10
percent from a record intraday high on April 11. Crude  oil
prices  in  New York  dropped almost 16 percent this month. India
buys abroad almost three-quarters of the oil it uses.  “Commodities have fallen back from recent highs and so
it’s a good time for importers to book shipments,” said
Krishnamurthy Harihar, Mumbai-based treasurer at the Indian unit
of FirstRand Ltd. “Dollar demand from gold and oil buyers is
going to keep some moderate downward pressure on the rupee.”  The Indian currency dropped 0.7 percent to 44.9975 per
dollar at the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That is the biggest loss since Feb. 24. The rupee
has weakened 0.9 percent this quarter, the worst performance
among  Asia ’s 10 most-traded currencies.  The rupee’s decline was limited as a government report
showed industrial production grew at the fastest pace in five
months in March.  Factory output rose 7.3 percent in March from a year
earlier after a revised 3.7 percent gain in February, the
commerce ministry said in a statement in  New Delhi  today. The
median estimate of 30 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 4 percent increase.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 45.74 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 45.39
yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anil Varma in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  