-- 
India’s Rahul Gandhi Arrested at Protest Site

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-05-12T06:08:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/india-s-rahul-gandhi-arrested-at-protest-site.html
India ’s Rahul Gandhi was briefly
detained after visiting the site of deadly clashes between
protesting farmers and police over the building of a motorway
connecting the national capital with Agra, home to the  Taj Mahal .  Gandhi, 40, was arrested last night as part of “preventive
measures” to stop him leading a rally today in villages around
Noida, a satellite town of New Delhi, said Rajeev Malhotra, a
spokesman for police in the state  of Uttar Pradesh . Gandhi, a
scion of three Indian prime ministers, had slipped into the area
on the back of a motorbike and was released early this morning,
Malhotra said.  Two policemen and two farmers were killed over the weekend
as villagers demanded greater compensation for land earmarked
for a six-lane expressway. The state government says the road
will promote economic development and cut about two hours off
the current 5-hour trip between the two cities.  Uttar Pradesh , India’s largest state which sends 80
lawmakers to the federal parliament, will be targeted by
Gandhi’s Congress party in the run up to state elections to be
held next year. It is run by Mayawati, whose Bahujan Samaj Party
draws support mainly from those on the lower rungs of the
country’s traditional caste system. Mayawati has supported the
federal government led by Congress without formally joining the
coalition.  Gandhi’s great grandfather Jawaharlal Nehru, independent
India’s first prime minister, spent years in jail protesting
British rule before the country gained its freedom in 1947.  Congress Protests  Three of Gandhi’s ancestors -- Nehru, Indira Gandhi and his
father Rajiv Gandhi -- have ruled India as prime minister for 38
of the country’s 64 years. His mother Sonia is the president of
the ruling Congress and named the 9th most powerful person in
the world by  Forbes magazine  last year.  Rahul Gandhi  is tipped by parts of India’s media and
political analysts to become prime minister if Congress wins the
next general election scheduled for early 2014. Gandhi, who was
elected to parliament’s lower house in 2004, has focused on
developing the youth wing of the party.  Conflict between farmers and companies trying to secure
land for industrial projects has hampered India’s plans to
expand its network of highways and attract overseas investment.
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , 78, is trying to replace century-
old laws used to purchase land for the state in a bid to reduce
disputes.  Congress will hold protests today in Uttar Pradesh against
the state’s acquisition of land. “Our fight against the
government will continue,” Digvijay Singh, a Congress leader
said. “We will be happy to go to jail on farmers’ issues.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  