-- 
Indonesia Refrains From Raising Key Interest Rate as Economic Growth Eases

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 
2011-05-12T07:43:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/indonesia-refrains-from-raising-key-interest-rate-as-economic-growth-eases.html
Indonesia ’s central bank kept
interest rates unchanged for a third straight month to bolster
slowing economic growth, relying on an appreciating currency to
contain inflation.  Bank Indonesia kept its benchmark  reference rate  at 6.75
percent, it said in a statement in Jakarta today. The decision
was predicted by all 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Easing inflation and the central bank’s thinking that
they’re capping inflation gains with a stronger rupiah is giving
them support to hold the rate,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , an economist
at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in Singapore. “They have time
to postpone any rate hike to the latter part of the year.”  Indonesia has refrained from boosting borrowing costs since
its first rate increase in more than two years in February, in
contrast with neighbors from  Malaysia  to  India  where officials
have accelerated monetary tightening. While the country’s policy
measures have helped ease inflation, authorities “can’t be
complacent,” Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said in a mobile-
phone text message today.  “Bank Indonesia is being prudent in its policy making so
as to allow the economy to reach growth targets and support
infrastructure development,” Destry Damayanti, chief economist
at PT Bank Mandiri in Jakarta, said before the decision. “It is
still in a tightening mode amid pressure from commodity prices
and is likely to raise rates once more this year.”  Fuel Subsidies  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono ’s policy makers have
extended fuel subsidies and let the rupiah climb the most in
Asia after  Taiwan  this year to contain inflation. Economic
growth slowed to 6.5 percent last quarter as investment eased,
after climbing 6.9 percent in the previous three months.  The Indonesian rupiah climbed to its strongest level since
2004 this month and has gained about 5 percent this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency fell 0.3
percent to 8,553 against the dollar as of 2:34 p.m. in Jakarta,
paring a decline of as much as 0.4 percent earlier.  Indonesia’s exchange-rate movements are still in line with
efforts to curb inflation, while keeping the momentum of
economic growth, the central bank said. The rupiah’s gains so
far have had no negative impact on the competitiveness of
domestic products and the country’s export performance is
forecast to remain strong, it said.  Consumer prices in Indonesia,  Southeast Asia ’s largest
economy, rose 6.16 percent last month from a year earlier,
slower than the 6.65 percent pace in March. Prices fell in April
from March.  Core inflation  accelerated to 4.62 percent from 4.45
percent.  Watching Commodities  “ Bank Indonesia  will continue to closely watch inflation
pressures, especially those that are derived from international
commodity prices, the rise in domestic demand and government
policy related to fuel subsidies and the possibility of
disruptions to food supplies,” the central bank said today.  Indonesia may need to resume rate increases later this year
should price pressures climb, according to Bambang Brodjonegoro,
the finance ministry’s head of fiscal policy. The central bank
expects inflation to reach 4 percent to 6 percent this year
before easing to a range of 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent in 2012,
it said today.  “By maintaining the rate at the current level, purchasing
power will increase” and boost home and vehicle purchases, said
Jahja Setiaatmadja, vice president director at PT Bank Central
 Asia  in Jakarta. The country’s largest financial services
company by market value has no plans to raise  mortgage rates  for
the next three months as the benchmark stays unchanged, he said.  Growth Forecast  Private consumption provided the main support for economic
growth in the first quarter, contributing 2.6 percentage points
of the expansion, according to Rusman Heriawan, chairman of the
statistics office. Bank Indonesia estimates the economy may
expand 6.4 percent in the second quarter.  Growth in 2011 may reach the upper end of the forecast
range of 6 percent to 6.5 percent, the central bank said today.
The risk of inflation pressures in the future remains high, it
said.  “With growth prospects still remaining strong, healthy
loans growth and core inflation going up, there is no reason
they should not normalize rates,” said OCBC’s Cahyadi, who
expects two more rate increases in 2011.  Bank Central Asia expects mortgage and vehicle loans to
increase 30 percent this year, while overall credit growth may
climb as much as 25 percent, Setiaatmadja said. The company’s
shares have risen 13 percent this year, outperforming most of
its Indonesian peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Thailand ,  Singapore   Elsewhere, central banks from Thailand to the  Philippines 
and Singapore are stepping up the fight against inflation
through rate increases or currency appreciation as political
unrest in the Middle East boosts crude oil prices. Oil traded
near $100 a barrel today, and has climbed about 8 percent this
year.  Policy makers around the region are also using tools other
than benchmark rates to rein in liquidity that may fuel price
gains. Malaysia’s central bank, in raising rates last week,
ordered banks to set aside more cash as reserves for the second
time this year. Bank Indonesia is extending the one-month
holding period on central bank notes, or SBI, to six months,
effective tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung at   nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  