-- 
Initial Jobless Claims in U.S. Fell 44,000 Last Week

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-05-12T13:36:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/initial-jobless-claims-in-u-s-fell-44-000-last-week-to-434-000.html
The number of Americans filing first-
time claims for unemployment insurance payments fell less than
forecast last week, indicating recovery in the labor market is
taking time to accelerate.  Applications for jobless benefits decreased 44,000 in the
week ended May 7 to 434,000, Labor Department figures showed
today. Economists forecast 430,000 claims, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The number of people
on unemployment benefit rolls rose, while those getting extended
payments decreased.  A further decline in the number of firings accompanied by
job gains elsewhere may shore up consumers’ confidence and boost
average incomes, helping Americans overcome the strains of
higher food and energy costs. U.S. payrolls have expanded for
seven straight months, a sign the labor market is strengthening.  “These numbers are consistent with the consumer continuing
to spend and the recovery continuing to gain traction,” said
Conrad DeQuadros, a senior economist at RDQ Economics LLC in  New
York . “The only problem is that we’re digging out of a very
deep hole in employment, so the unemployment rate will probably
remain elevated.”  Other reports today showed retail sales rose in April,
reflecting gains at service stations and grocery stores, and
wholesale costs rose more than forecast.  Treasuries Fall  Stocks and Treasuries fell after the reports. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.3 percent to 1,337.95 at 9:31 a.m.
in New York. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note
rose to 3.19 percent from 3.16 percent late yesterday.  Estimates for first-time claims ranged from 400,000 to
465,000 in the Bloomberg News survey of 44 economists.  The Labor Department initially reported the prior week’s
applications at 474,000, elevated by events that seasonal
variations failed to take into account. A spring break holiday
in New York, a new emergency benefits program in  Oregon  and auto
shutdowns caused by the disaster in  Japan  were the main reasons
for the surge, a Labor Department spokesman said last week.  A Labor Department official said today there was a
significant increase for initial jobless claims in  Alabama 
related to damage from the tornadoes and storms. The official
said that figure did not affect the national numbers.  The four-week moving average, a less-volatile measure,
increased to 436,750 from 432,250, the highest since November.  The number of people continuing to collect jobless benefits
rose by 5,000 in the week ended April 30 to 3.76 million.
Economists forecast the number would fall to 3.7 million. The
continuing claims figure does not include the number of workers
receiving extended benefits under federal programs.  Emergency Payments  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments decreased by about
17,000 to 4.1 million in the week ended April 23.  The  unemployment rate  among people eligible for benefits,
which tends to track the jobless rate, held at 3 percent in the
week ended April 30, today’s report showed. Thirty-one states
and territories reported an increase in claims, while 22 had a
decrease.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said last week the recovery is falling short of the
central bank’s goals even with job gains.  “Economic conditions have improved in the past year,”
Dudley said May 6. “Yet the recovery remains moderate and we
still have a considerable way to go to meet the Fed’s dual
mandate of full employment and price stability.”  General Motors Co. (GM)  said May 10 it will invest $2 billion in
plants in eight U.S. states as it works to boost production and
market share. About $1.8 billion of that investment would
potentially create or save 4,000 jobs at 17 facilities,
depending on completing local tax deals, the Detroit-based
automaker said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  