-- 
Investors Favor Cash Over Commodities in Dim Poll Outlook

-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-05-12T08:55:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/investors-shifting-to-cash-from-commodities-as-outlook-dims-in-global-poll.html
Global investors have tempered their
optimism about the U.S. and world economies and plan to put more
of their money in cash and less in commodities over the next six
months, a Bloomberg survey found.  Almost 1 in 3 of those questioned say they will hold more
cash, while 30 percent intend to reduce investments in
commodities, according to a quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll of
1,263 investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg
subscribers. Both results were the highest since the survey
began asking the question last June.  A plurality -- 40 percent -- expects  oil prices  to fall in
the next six months, the first time respondents felt that way
since the inception of this poll in July 2009.  The “big stimulus game is over,” said Bill O’Connor, a
poll participant and founder of Sagg Main Capital hedge fund in
New York, in explaining why he’s moving money into cash as the
 Federal Reserve  winds up its bond-buying program and U.S.
lawmakers look to cut the budget.  Fewer than 4 in 10 of those surveyed described the U.S. and
global economies as improving, down from about 50 percent who
felt that way back in January. U.S. economic growth slowed to
1.8 percent in the first quarter of this year, down from 3.1
percent in the final three months of 2010.  Home prices  fell in
more than three-quarters of U.S. cities in the first quarter of
2011, according to the National Association of Realtors.  Bearish on Stocks  The poll, conducted May 9-10, also found that investors’
ardor for stocks is cooling. Two in 5 intend to increase their
exposure to equity markets over the next six months, down from
almost 3 in 5 in the last poll in January. U.S. investors in
particular have become less keen on stocks: Just 37 percent say
they are increasing their exposure, down from 57 percent in the
previous poll.  The survey was taken after a turbulent week in the markets
that saw commodity prices suffer their biggest decline in more
than two years. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of
24 commodities dropped 11 percent last week, led by a 27 percent
collapse in silver prices. The gauge fell 3.9 percent yesterday
and another 0.9 percent by 9:29 a.m. in  London  today. Crude oil
fell below $100 a barrel in New York trading yesterday.  More than half of those surveyed expect silver prices to
fall further in the next six months. Sixteen percent identified
commodities as one of the markets that will suffer the worst
returns over the next year, more than double the proportion that
said that in January.  Still No. 1  Commodities have “become a bubble, with a lot of non-
specialist investors,” said Ken Welby, a salesman at KNG
Securities LLP in London and a poll participant. “Demand cannot
cope with the price rises that we have seen.”  While the attractiveness of the U.S. is ebbing, it still
comes out on top when survey participants are asked to name the
best countries to invest in. Thirty-one percent cited the U.S.
as among the markets that will offer the best returns over the
next year, down from 37 percent in January.  U.S. investors are more enthusiastic about their country
than those in either Europe or Asia. Almost 2 in 5 Americans
picked the U.S. as a top market. Only one-third of Asians and
less than a quarter of Europeans felt that way.  Brazil and  China  trailed the U.S. in the poll, with 1 in 4
investors citing those countries as good places to put money.
Fifteen percent singled out  Japan , almost double the amount that
did so in January, before the country suffered a devastating
earthquake and tsunami that left 24,837 dead or missing as of
May 7 and cratered its stock market.  Nikkei Seen Rising  “We have confidence that the Japanese are addressing the
issues, and that earnings will not disappoint the market,”
Welby said. “I see it as a relative-value trade.”  More than 2 in 5 investors see Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock
Average rising over the next six months. That compares with
about 1 in 4 who said that back in January.  The Nikkei average yesterday rose 45.50, or 0.5 percent, to
9,864.26. That’s down from 10,254.43 on March 11, the day of the
earthquake. The gauge dropped 1.5 percent today.  Investors have turned less optimistic about other stock
markets. Less than half see the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rising during the next six months; in January, almost two-thirds
forecast an advance. About one-quarter in the latest poll say
they expect the stock gauge to fall. The  S&P 500  fell 1.1
percent to 1,342.08 yesterday in  New York .  Energy, Food  “U.S. stocks will have a 5 to 8 percent decline in the
coming months,” said Joe Larizza, a director at Vining Sparks
IBG in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , and a poll participant. “I see
energy and food prices causing a drag on the economy.”  Global investors still consider equities to be among the
most lucrative places for their money, with more than 1 in 3
forecasting that stocks will provide superior returns over the
next year.  Asian investors are the most confident in their regional
economy, with 42 percent saying it is improving, compared with
31 percent of U.S. poll respondents and 26 percent of Europeans
who feel that way about their areas.  Half of global investors forecast that the MSCI  Asia 
Pacific Index will rise over the next six months, down from 58
percent in January. The index fell 1.6 percent to 136.23 today.  EU Returns  The European Union was seen by the most respondents as one
of the markets offering the worst returns over the next year,
with 38 percent singling it out, little changed from January.
The turmoil-racked Middle East ranked second worst, with about 1
in 4 investors describing it that way, up from less than 1 in 10
in the previous poll.  About 1 in 3 investors see the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, a
measure of shares in nations using the common currency, and the
FTSE 100 Index rising in the next six months. That compares with
more than 40 percent who forecast advances in January.  The Euro Stoxx 50 Index fell 1.3 percent to 2,903.39 today.
The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index dropped 1 percent to 5,916.64.  More than half of those surveyed forecast that the dollar
will strengthen against the euro over the next three months. The
euro was little changed at $1.4202 today.  The quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll of investors, traders
and analysts was conducted by Selzer & Co., a  Des Moines , Iowa-
based firm. It has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.8
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  