-- 
Iran ‘Increasingly Cut Off’ From Financial Markets: UN Report

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-05-12T17:49:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/iran-increasingly-cut-off-from-financial-markets-un-report.html
Financial sanctions are impeding
 Iran ’s purchase of materials for its nuclear and missile
programs, a  United Nations  report said, compelling the
government in Tehran to try to buy foreign banks and adopt
methods employed by terrorist groups.  “Iranian individuals and entities find themselves
increasingly cut off from international financial markets,
making it increasingly difficult to find ways to pay in U.S.
dollars or euros for the equipment they need,” according to the
report by a panel of experts created by the UN  Security Council .  The eight-person panel, established by a June 2010 UN
resolution, said that while Iran “appears able” to pay for
materials to support the banned programs, the sanctions “appear
to be having an impact as judged by the range of measures taken
by Iran to circumvent them.”  Those measures include 10 reported attempts to buy foreign
banks, money exchange bureaus and other financial institutions
in the past two years and efforts to “set up new banking
relationships overseas, for example in parts of  South America ,”
the report said.  The UN  Security Council  has adopted four sets of sanctions
against Iran aimed at preventing it from developing nuclear
weapons or ballistic missiles. The U.S. and European Union have
added their own sanctions. The report said it was impossible to
distinguish between the effects of the sanctions regimes.  Iran’s mission to the UN didn’t respond to a request for a
comment on the report. The country says its nuclear program is
for peaceful purposes.  Shifting Banks  Iranian financial transactions, “which used to be largely
centered on the Gulf, appear to have shifted in recent years to
neighboring countries” the report said. Iran also has moved
accounts to non-sanctioned banks from sanctioned banks such as
Bank Sepah, funneled payments through foreign exchange bureaus
and intermediary banks, and used methods associated with  money
laundering  or terrorist financing.  As an example of the difficulties Iran faces, the report
said six Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines vessels were
seized in  Hong Kong , Malta and  Singapore  as a result of
difficulties accessing financial services. “Repossessing the
ships forced Iran to draw on valuable foreign currency
reserves,” the report said.  Sanctions are “slowing  Iran’s nuclear program  but not yet
having an impact on the decision calculus of its leadership,”
the report said. UN member nations are taking a “more active
role” in sanctions enforcement by strengthening export
controls, and monitoring their ports and financial institutions,
it said. These efforts have compelled Iran to buy materials that
fall “just below control thresholds,” requiring the government
to adapt purchased goods to the nuclear and missile programs.  Prohibited Shipments  The report said Iran has made prohibited shipments of
conventional arms to  Syria , specifically in six of nine reported
incidents in the past two years. In all, the report documented
12 cases of banned weapons or goods intercepted on their way to
or from Iran.  “Iran willfully violates Security Council prohibitions on
such transfers,” the report said.  The panel recommended that the Security Council designate
six more people and entities to the list that is subject to the
UN asset freeze and travel ban.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  