-- 
Israeli Human Rights Group Calls for Jordan Valley Evacuation

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-12T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/israeli-human-rights-group-calls-for-jordan-valley-evacuation.html
An Israeli human rights group said
the country controls more than three quarters of the Jordan
Valley and pumps so much water for Jewish settlers living in the
area that Palestinians have been forced to abandon farmland.  “In light of the illegality of the settlements and given
the severe ongoing harm that the settlements in the Jordan
Valley and the northern  Dead Sea  area have caused to
Palestinians living there, B’Tselem calls on Israel to evacuate
these settlements,” the  B’Tselem  group said in a report today.  Israeli officials repeatedly have said that the area, which
borders Jordan, would have to be demilitarized in any peace
agreement with the Palestinians and there would have to be an
Israeli military presence in the area.  Israeli construction of housing in West Bank settlements
led to the breakdown of the last round of peace talks with the
Palestinians after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in
September refused to extend a 10-month partial freeze on
building.  Palestinian Authority  President  Mahmoud Abbas  has made
a full moratorium on construction a condition of returning to
talks.  Foreign Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor said he couldn’t
comment on the B’Tselem report because the group hasn’t yet
submitted a copy to the ministry.  Israel  currently controls 77.5 percent of the area’s 1.6
million dunams, which serve as home to 65,000 Palestinians and
9,400 Israelis, B’Tselem said. The settlements pump 45 million
cubic meters of water, compared with 31 million by the
Palestinians, it said.  Resources ‘Exploited’  “Israel has instituted a regime that massively exploits
the resources of the Jordan Valley and the northern Dead Sea,
far more than elsewhere in the West Bank, demonstrating its
intention to de facto annex the area,” B’Tselem said.  Due to the water shortage for Palestinian farmers in an
area the Palestinian Authority calls its “breadbasket,”
farmland that was once cultivated has been neglected, B’Tselem
said.  Israel has built about 120 settlements in the  West Bank 
since the late 1960s. Another 100 smaller settlements, which
Israel calls outposts, were built during the past decade. The
 United Nations  says settlements are illegal, and the
International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach the
Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to any
country before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and
therefore isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in  Jerusalem  at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg. 