-- 
Liverpool Owner Henry to Make Dalglish Permanent Coach: Roundup

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-05-12T10:23:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/liverpool-owner-henry-to-make-dalglish-permanent-coach-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  ‘King Kenny’  Liverpool owner  John Henry  plans to announce Kenny Dalglish
as the club’s permanent manager by this weekend’s game against
Tottenham, the  Daily Mirror  said.  Henry and chairman Tom Werner will fly to Liverpool from
the U.S. to wrap up his contract, the Mirror said.  The Reds have climbed to fifth place in the Premier League
from 12th since Dalglish took over for  Roy Hodgson  in January. A
win over Spurs would earn a spot in next season’s Europa League.  Final Payday?  Manchester City is set to offer Barcelona midfielder  Xavi Hernandez  a chance to end his career in England, the  Daily
Mirror  said.  Xavi, 31, has a rollover contract that could be renewed for
four more years but Barcelona is unlikely to stand in his way if
he wants to move, the newspaper said.  City wants to sign marquee players as it prepares for its
first season in the Champions League, the Mirror added.  Rodwell Race  City will also enter the race to sign Everton midfielder
Jack Rodwell, who’s also a target for  Manchester United , the
 Daily Express  said.  City manager Roberto Mancini is considering an offer for
the 21-year-old Rodwell, who could cost as much as 20 million
pounds ($32.5 million), the Express said.  Green Goes  Robert Green will lead an exodus of players from West Ham
this summer, even if the team escapes relegation, the  Sun said .  The England goalkeeper has a year left on his contract and
the Hammers have made no attempt to extend terms, the Sun said.
 Aston Villa  has targeted Green, 31, as a replacement for Brad Friedel, who turns 40 next week, the newspaper said.  Spurs Clearout  Tottenham is preparing a summer clearout in an attempt to
keep winger Gareth Bale, the  Independent  said.  Robbie Keane , Jamie O’Hara, Giovani dos Santos and David Bentley, who are all out on loan this season, are among players
Chairman Daniel Levy wants to sell, the Independent said. The
club will also listen to offers for Roman Pavlyuchenko and Niko Kranjcar, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 