-- 
Liverpool Interim Coach Kenny Dalglish Signs Three-Year Contract With Club

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-05-12T14:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/liverpool-interim-coach-kenny-dalglish-signs-three-year-contract-with-club.html
Kenny Dalglish  signed a three-year
contract as the permanent manager at Liverpool after leading the
English Premier League club to fifth place from 12th since taking
over in January.  The 60-year-old former Liverpool player was appointed to
replace  Roy Hodgson  for the remainder of the season. His new
contract was announced today on the club’s  website .  “It was obvious to us very early on that the atmosphere
around the club had been transformed by his presence,”
Liverpool owner  John Henry  said. “No one could have produced
such a response. We didn’t need nor want to look elsewhere for
the right man to manage the team.”  Steve Clark, whom Dalglish brought to the club in January,
also signed a permanent three-year contract.  Dalglish, a Liverpool fans’ favorite from his days as a
player, managed the club 1985 to 1991 and captured three league
titles, including its most recent in 1990. He’s won 10 and drawn
three in 16 league matches to push the Reds up the standings.  “I said when I took the job on in January that I was just
happy to help the club out for the remainder of the season,”
Dalglish, nicknamed “King Kenny,” said. “Now the owners have
decided in their wisdom that they want me to stay a little
longer and it’s fantastic news for both myself and Steve Clark.
This is a unique football club and I’m delighted to have the
opportunity to help build something special here again.”  Liverpool has won six and tied one in its past eight league
matches. It can clinch fifth place, and a place in next season’s
Europa League, by beating Tottenham at home in three days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 