-- 
Janus Brings Back Hedge-Fund Manager Kozlowski to Lead Alternatives Push

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-05-12T20:46:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/janus-names-kozlowski-to-lead-expansion-of-alternative-products.html
Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS) , the Denver
money manager struggling with client defections, will absorb the
hedge fund founded by Dan Kozlowski as he returns to the company
to lead an expansion in alternative investments.  Kozlowski, 39, who left Janus in 2008 to found Plaisance
Capital LLC, will continue to run the Chicago-based hedge fund
while replacing David Decker as manager of  Janus Contrarian
Fund (JSVAX) , the firm said today in a statement. Decker, 45, is leaving
June 30 to start an independent asset-management firm, according
to the company.  Janus’s stock has lagged behind rivals as clients pulled
$18.5 billion from its funds since the third quarter of 2009.
Chief Executive Officer Richard Weil, who took over in February
2010, is seeking to attract investors by adding new funds,
including a push into fixed income.  The fund acquisition and Kozlowski’s return “positions the
firm to offer alternative products that are a natural extension
of our fundamental investment philosophy,” Co-Chief Investment
Officer Jonathan Coleman said in the statement.  Kozlowski’s hedge fund is focused on U.S. and Asian
equities, betting on rising and falling stocks, James Aber, a
Janus spokesman, said in a telephone interview. Janus wouldn’t
disclose the size of the fund or performance figures.  Aber said Janus will take over the fund and pitch it to
institutional investors. Hiroshi Yoh, hired in April to run
Asian equity strategies in  Singapore , will help manage
alternative products.  Decker Outperformance  Under Decker, the Contrarian Fund returned 11 percent in
2010, beating 91 percent of rivals, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Dan Riff will drop his role as co-manager of the Janus Fund
and oversee Janus Long/Short Fund, which he formerly headed with
Decker. Barney Wilson, manager of Global Technology Fund, will
succeed Riff as co-manager of Janus Fund.  Brad Slingerlend will replace Wilson as head of Global
Technology Fund.  Janus rose 13 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $11.42 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has lost
13 percent in the past year, compared with the gain of 6 percent
by the  Standard & Poor’s  asset manager and custody bank index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  