-- 
Japan’s Most Important Banker Shirakawa Sees Only Bubbles in Extra Easing

-- B y   A k i   I t o ,   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-05-13T08:03:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/japan-s-most-important-banker-sees-only-bubbles.html
With his nation’s economy contracting
under disaster damage of as much as 25 trillion yen ($310
billion), Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa is signaling
that his biggest worry is inflation.  At stake for the student of  Milton Friedman  is protecting
the bank’s independence from financing public spending, as urged
by lawmakers after the record March 11 earthquake. Shirakawa, 61,
instead oversaw a 40-trillion yen boost in short-term funds,
eschewing the scale of longer-dated asset purchases the  Federal
Reserve  mounted after confidence in credit markets collapsed and
the U.S. entered its worst recession since the Great Depression.  His strategy, which won the plaudits of 17 of the 24
primary dealers in Japan’s government bond market in a Bloomberg
News survey, may not be enough as he warns of the danger of
asset bubbles. The yen’s climb to about 6 percent from a postwar
high against the dollar risks undermining exporters’ earnings.  “The vital signs show that the Bank of  Japan  isn’t doing
enough now, even though they definitely recognize monetary
policy is important,” said Koichi Hamada, who taught Shirakawa
at Tokyo University and is now an economics professor at  Yale
University  in New Haven,  Connecticut . “What he does is a very,
very small amount.”  Shirakawa, in office since April 2008, is Japan’s longest-
serving economic policy maker. He has seen four prime ministers
from two parties and, just since the  Democratic Party  of Japan
defeated the Liberal Democratic Party in August 2009, three
finance ministers and four economic and fiscal policy chiefs. He
declined to comment through a spokesman for this article.  Mini-QE2  He pushed a 5 trillion yen expansion in the BOJ’s asset-
purchase fund that was set up last year to help bring an end to
the deflation that became embedded in Japan’s economy in the
late 1990s. The increase was about one-tenth the size of the
Fed’s so-called QE2, or second episode of quantitative easing.  “There is a higher risk of leaving the economic condition
as poor as it is now than the risk from the BOJ’s direct
purchases of bonds,” said Yoichi Kaneko, secretary-general of
the DPJ’s backbench Anti-Deflation Group and a former economist
at the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. “He’s like a staff officer who’s become a
general.”  The BOJ chief, a compromise candidate after a former
administration failed to get its top two picks for governor
approved by lawmakers in 2008, bristles at any unfavorable
comparison with Fed policy. After a reporter characterized the
Japanese monetary stimulus as “shoboi,” or a lame or shabby
effort, Shirakawa chided him:  Not Shoboi  “You used the word ‘shoboi,’ but I want to strongly say
that none of the policy board members, including me, think it’s
shoboi,” Shirakawa said at a March 14  press conference  in  Tokyo .
He explained that BOJ purchases include riskier assets such as
exchange-traded funds that mean its plan is more ambitious than
adding government debt.  Shirakawa also says the BOJ’s balance sheet, at 134.6
trillion yen, is larger than the Fed’s as a share of the economy.
Even so, its assets, which include securities used for open-
market operations and those accumulated through liquidity
injections and stimulus programs, have shrunk 10 percent from
the peak after the March 11 temblor, tsunami and nuclear crisis.  The BOJ’s easing before and after the quake hasn’t stopped
the yen from appreciating. The currency broke through 80 per
dollar this month for the first time since speculation that
Japanese investors would repatriate funds drove it to a record
76.25 on March 17. It rose to 80.52 as of 5:01 p.m. in Tokyo.  Wait-and-See  “The point is how quickly a central bank enlarges its
balance sheet,” said Masayuki Kichikawa, chief Japan economist
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Tokyo. “The BOJ’s behavior
over the next few months will determine the reputation of
Governor Shirakawa in his remaining tenure,” he said, adding:
“I’m afraid the BOJ may be coming back to the wait-and-see
stance it had before the quake.” Shirakawa’s tenure ends in
2013.  At its most recent meeting on April 28, Shirakawa and seven
other board members rejected a proposal by Deputy Governor
Kiyohiko Nishimura to boost the central bank’s asset purchases
by another 5 trillion yen. At the same time, Shirakawa said he’s
prepared to take “appropriate” action if needed.  Shirakawa, who took Nobel-laureate Friedman’s last course
at the University of  Chicago , has also sought to shoot down any
effort by lawmakers to request that the central bank directly
finance  government spending . He has publicly warned against the
step at least seven times since the March 11 quake devastated
the northeast and crippled a nuclear power plant.  ‘Limitless Expansion’  “If a central bank starts to underwrite  government bonds ,
there may be no problems at first, but it would lead to a
limitless expansion of currency issuance, spur sharp inflation
and yield a big blow to people’s lives and economic
activities,” as has happened in the past, Shirakawa said in an
April 7 press conference.  The BOJ chief has consistently warned against keeping
 interest rates  too low for too long and planting the seeds for
asset bubbles. He reiterated the point in a May 5  speech in
Helsinki , saying that the 1980s bubble was brought on in part by
“monetary accommodation.”  Inflation in Japan, though, hasn’t reached the BOJ board
definition of  price stability  -- sustained 1 percent gains in
the  consumer price index  excluding fresh food -- since the early
1990s. There’s also been scant sign of asset bubbles: the Nikkei
225 Stock Average is 75 percent lower than its record reached in
1989 and land prices have fallen in 18 of the past 20 years.  ‘Academic’ Approach  Shuhei Abe, chief executive officer of Sparx Group Co.,
 Asia ’s second-largest hedge fund, said the BOJ initially
responded well to this year’s crisis by flooding the market with
liquidity. At the same time, Abe said, Shirakawa’s focus on
fighting inflation may be too dogmatic.  “Shirakawa has religiously maintained that his main
responsibility is to fight inflation, which is his academic
position. I respect him as an academic, but not as a central
banker,” Abe said in an interview last month.  The governor gets mixed results in a survey of Bloomberg
users this month. While 50 percent of respondents said the BOJ’s
stance is appropriate, Shirakawa was behind Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, European Central Bank Chairman Jean-Claude Trichet and
 Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King in a ranking of who did the
best job managing their region’s crisis. He got 9 percent of
votes, versus 42 percent for Bernanke. Shirakawa’s favorability
rating rose to 44 percent from 31 percent in October 2009.  Goldman’s Outlook  In the latest sign Japan’s economy will struggle to rebound
after the disaster,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  economists Chiwoong Lee and Naohiko Baba on May 10 cut their projections for gross
domestic product, seeing a 0.2 percent contraction for the 2011
calendar year compared with a previous estimate of 0.7 percent
growth. Goldman cited supply-chain disruptions hurting the
outlook for exports.  Factory output dropped a record 15.3 percent in March from
February and household spending slid 8.5 percent from a year
earlier, government reports showed April 28. Retail sales fell
the most in 13 years, according to data released the day before.  Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s pressure this month on Chubu
Electric Power Co. to suspend a nuclear plant south of Tokyo
over safety concerns added to supply-disruption concerns. The
Tokyo region is already facing a shortage of electricity going
into the peak-demand summer period after Tokyo Electric Power
Co.’s Fukushima plant disaster.  Power ‘Headache’  “The issue of power supply is giving us a headache on top
of the supply-chain issue,” Toshizo Tanaka, an executive vice
president at  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s largest maker of cameras,
told reporters in Tokyo April 26. The Tokyo-based company
forecast an 11 percent drop in 2011 net income, abandoning its
previous forecast for a 26 percent increase.  While Shirakawa described the economic outlook as
“severe” at the Diet on April 30, he has repeatedly said the
nation’s challenge is one of restoring supply, rather than
boosting demand.  “He recognizes the limits of monetary policy,” said  Jacob Frenkel , chairman of JPMorgan Chase International, who led
Israel’s central bank from 1991 to 2000 and taught Shirakawa at
the University of Chicago. “He performed very well in terms of
rising to the challenge of the short-term changes while keeping
an eye on the medium-term strategies.”  Shirakawa was schooled in economics at Tokyo University and
joined the  Bank of Japan  in 1972, later taking time to get a
master’s at Chicago in 1977. A fan of bird watching, he declined
in his  first press conference  in 2008 to identify himself as
either a “hawk” or “dove” on monetary policy, saying any
response would be an insult to birds.  Career Background  His focus on the smooth operation of payments and
settlements after the quake may reflect lessons from his career.
He was director of the financial and payment system office in
1990 as Japan’s bad-loan crisis began. Later posts included
general manager for the Americas, which involves communicating
with the Fed and reporting on the  U.S. economy .  Shirakawa had been appointed as a deputy governor by a
former Liberal Democratic Party administration, before being
tapped to head the BOJ after the DPJ opposed the first two
candidates for being too close to the government.  The DPJ may now privately have some buyer’s remorse,
according to Takehiro Sato, chief economist at Morgan Stanley
MUFG Securities Co. Toshiro Muto, a former vice finance minister
who was the LDP’s first pick, might have embraced larger
monetary stimulus, Sato said.  Buyer’s Remorse  “I believe he would have taken bigger steps to try to
overcome deflation,” said Sato, who credits Shirakawa with
acting quickly after the quake while faulting him for not doing
enough before.  Shirakawa has defended the BOJ’s actions before the quake,
saying last year’s unveiling of an asset purchase program
encompassing ETFs, Real Estate Investment Trusts and corporate
bonds meant it was taking high risk onto its balance sheet. In a
Nov. 4 press conference, he called it an “unprecedented” and
“extraordinary” step for a central bank.  The BOJ also helped avoid a deep deflationary spiral in the
late 1990s, according to Shirakawa. A bad-loan crisis in 1997-98
saw financial companies from Yamaichi Securities Co. to Hokkaido
Takushoku Bank Ltd. collapse.  Even so, the central bank then failed to cut interest rates
quickly enough or adopt quantitative easing fast enough to spark
the economic rebound that would have ended deflation, some
analysts said.  “The deflation we’re in today is the result of the
repeated failures of the BOJ,” said Naoki Iizuka, a senior
economist at Mizuho Securities Inc., a brokerage unit of Japan’s
third-largest bank. “How history will judge Shirakawa will
depend on what he does” as the BOJ’s counterparts raise rates,
he said.  Sustained near-zero rates in Japan as the Fed and European
central banks withdraw stimulus would “help the yen depreciate,
boosting exports and facilitating a manufacturing-led
expansion,” Iizuka said.  “That’s what I’m hoping for.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at   aito16@bloomberg.net 
Keiko Ujikane at   kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  