-- 
Japan Reactor-Core Damage Is Worse Than Expected, Delaying Tepco’s Cleanup

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a
-- 
2011-05-12T15:27:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/japan-suffers-setback-at-fukushima-after-no-1-reactor-s-fuel-rods-exposed.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. said one of
the reactor cores at its stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant is more seriously damaged than previously thought, setting
back the utility’s plan to resolve the crisis.  Fuel rods in the core of the No. 1 reactor are fully
exposed, with the water level 1 meter (3.3 feet) below the base
of the fuel assembly, Junichi Matsumoto, a general manager at
the utility known as Tepco, told reporters at a briefing in
Tokyo. Melted fuel has dropped to the bottom of the pressure
vessel and is still being cooled, Matsumoto said.  Japan is trying to contain the worst nuclear disaster since
Chernobyl after a quake and tsunami two months ago knocked out
power and cooling systems at the Fukushima station. While
authorities have previously suspected a partial meltdown at unit
1, high radiation levels had prevented workers from entering the
building to check the damage until last week.  “What this means is this is probably going to be a much
more difficult cleanup than they originally planned for,” said
Paul Padley, a particle physicist at  Rice University  in Houston.
The government and Tepco “have consistently appeared to be
underestimating the severity of the situation.”  There’s no danger of another explosion like the one that
blew the roof off the reactor in March, Matsumoto said at the
briefing. That’s because the lack of water means there’s nothing
for the zirconium-alloy cladding encasing the uranium to react
with to create high-pressure clouds of hydrogen, said Roger N.
Blomquist, principal nuclear engineer at the U.S. Energy
Department’s Argonne National Laboratory near Chicago.  Holes Discovered  Fuel rods are submerged in water to prevent overheating
that would crack the casing and release radiation, said
Blomquist, who oversees the nuclear section at Argonne, a
federal research center managed by the  University of Chicago ,
birthplace of the atomic industry.  “This is what operators of nuclear reactors want to
avoid,” he said in a telephone interview.  Holes have been found in the base of the pressure vessel,
and most of the fuel has likely melted,  Kyodo News  reported
yesterday, citing the utility. It’s possible the fuel has leaked
into the containment vessel, which was damaged in the explosion,
according to the report.  Flooding the chamber was one of the steps Tepco outlined in
April to bring the crisis under control.  “The plan needs to be revised,” Matsumoto said. “We
can’t deny the possibility that a hole in the pressure vessel
caused water to leak.”  Tepco shares fell 8.8 percent to 479 yen in Tokyo
yesterday. The stock has declined 77 percent since March 11 when
 Japan ’s worst quake on record triggered a tsunami that left more
than 24,000 people dead.  No China Syndrome  The company doesn’t know how long the rods have been
exposed, it said in the briefing. It’s likely they’ve been
uncovered since the first days of the disaster, Blomquist said.  The six-reactor complex, Japan’s third-largest by capacity,
has been spewing radiation since March 11 and the severity
rating of the accident was raised to the same as Chernobyl
nearly one month ago. The station is located about 220
kilometers (137 miles) north of Tokyo.  While the risk of explosions still exists if the rods
aren’t kept cool, there’s no likelihood of a catastrophic
meltdown, with fuel burning through the Earth’s crust, said Tony
Roulstone, who directs the University of Cambridge’s masters
program in nuclear technology. “China syndrome’s not a real
risk because it would require too much energy.”  Evacuation Zone  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which has officials
in Japan monitoring the crisis, hasn’t changed its advice of
March 16, urging U.S. citizens to stay 50 miles from the
stricken plant, said Eliot Brenner, an NRC spokesman.  Brenner declined to comment on the specific condition of
the Fukushima reactors. The agency is holding a public meeting
to discuss a safety review of U.S. reactors which was triggered
by the events in Japan.  Tepco has said it expects a sustained drop in radiation
levels at the entire plant by July, according to the plan
announced on April 17. Following that, a cold shutdown of
reactors No. 1, 2 and 3 may take place as early as October, the
utility said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michio Nakayama in Tokyo at 
 mnakayama4@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Carroll in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net 
-0- May/12/ :07 GMT 