-- 
Japan Current-Account Surplus Shrinks a More-Than-Expected 34% After Quake

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-05-12T06:38:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/japan-s-current-account-surplus-shrinks-after-record-quake-curbs-exports.html
Japan ’s current-account surplus
narrowed more than expected in March as a record earthquake
disrupted the nation’s supply chain, curbing exports.  The gap shrank 34 percent from a year earlier to 1.68
trillion yen ($21 billion), the  Finance Ministry  said in  Tokyo 
today. The median estimate of 12 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was a 32 percent decline. Exports fell 1.4
percent and imports increased 16.6 percent.  “We expect the  trade balance  to significantly
deteriorate,” Takehiro Sato, chief Japan economist at Morgan
Stanley MUFG Securities Co. in Tokyo, wrote in a report before
today’s release. “We expect the current-account surplus to
narrow temporarily.”  More recent signs indicate the economy may be coming back.
Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest automaker, said that
global output will begin recovering in June, compared with its
earlier forecast of July to August. FamilyMart Co., Japan’s
third-largest convenience store chain, said it saw a bump in
sales last week in a sign consumer confidence is returning.  Japanese Economic and Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano 
said today the effect of the March 11 earthquake on factory
production will be smaller than anticipated.  “We believe that the impact on production will be smaller
than first thought,” Yosano said at the Foreign Correspondents’
Club of Japan in Tokyo. “Interrupted supply chains have
recovered at a remarkable rate, far more swiftly than had been
expected.”  Economy Watchers  The Economy Watchers index, a survey of barbers, taxi
drivers and others who deal with consumers, rose to 28.3 in
April after plunging by a record amount in March, a report
released by the Cabinet Office showed today.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 1.5 percent to 9,716.65
at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo as commodities fell on concern
global inflation will weigh on economic growth. The yen traded
at to 81.06 against the dollar.  FamilyMart, based in Tokyo, saw same-store sales rise
during the so-called Golden Week holiday in early May compared
with a year ago, President Junji Ueda said in a May 11 news
conference in Tokyo.  Toyota Motor said yesterday quarterly profit decreased 77
percent as the record earthquake halted production and slashed
domestic sales.  Broadest Measure  The coincident index, the broadest measure of the current
state of the economy, fell at the fastest pace on record in
March, the Cabinet Office said yesterday. Factory output
declined an unprecedented 15.3 percent in the month, and
household spending slid 8.5 percent from a year earlier, also a
record.  Analysts at the Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase said they
don’t expect Japan to run a current-account deficit because the
nation’s wealth is supported by an income surplus derived mostly
from overseas trading of equities, bonds and debt securities.  The current-account surplus has been one reason yields on
Japan’s 10-year bonds remain the lowest in 32 markets tracked by
Bloomberg. Still, a narrowing trade gap at a time when the
government is inclined to increase its debt burden for
reconstruction may weigh on investor sentiment, said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist at Norinchukin Research Institute Co. in
Tokyo.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  passed a 4 trillion yen package
for relief efforts and government officials said more measures
are needed for rebuilding after the quake. Finance Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  said yesterday that the government will probably
need sizable spending for the second extra budget, without
elaborating.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  