-- 
JPMorgan Can Have $112 Million CDO Case Heard in U.K. Court

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-05-12T12:24:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/jpmorgan-wins-eu-court-bid-to-have-112-million-cdo-case-heard-in-u-k-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-
largest  U.S. bank  by assets, won a challenge at the European
Union’s highest court to have a collateralized-debt obligation
dispute over $112 million heard by U.K. courts.  Contractual disputes are mainly about a contract’s validity
and don’t need to be heard in the country where the party
challenging the validity of the deal is based, the  EU Court of
Justice  in Luxembourg ruled today.  The ruling relates to two cases at the Luxembourg-based EU
court over whether disputes between JPMorgan and the city of
Berlin’s transportation provider BVG about a 2007 derivatives
transaction should be heard in the U.K. or  Germany . JPMorgan in
2008 sued BVG in the U.K., arguing the contract said any dispute
would be handled in British courts. In 2009, BVG sued JPMorgan
in Berlin seeking to annul what it called an invalid deal.  The decision may influence dozens of lawsuits over losses
on swap agreements between local governments and community-owned
utilities in the U.K., Germany and  Italy  on one hand, and banks
including  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Depfa Bank Plc on
the other. While municipalities are increasingly filing suits at
home claiming they weren’t properly advised of risks or that
swaps were unlawfully settled, the banks are turning to U.K.
courts where they expect to get swifter rulings.  ‘Enforceability’  The decision “underpins the framework of the commercial
system, though it’s certainly not helpful to those public bodies
that are trying to have their cases heard in their home courts”
after agreeing to other jurisdictions in the contracts, said
Laurence Harris, a lawyer at Edwards Angell Palmer & Dodge LLP
in  London . “The ruling identifies what the dispute is really
about, which is the enforceability of the contract.”  It would be “contrary to the sound administration of
justice to confer exclusive jurisdiction for such disputes upon
the courts of the” EU nation “in which one of the contracting
companies has its seat,” the court said in a 12-page ruling.  Under the agreement that prompted today’s case, JPMorgan
was insured by BVG against default on debt tied to 150
companies, including  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  In 2008,
following Lehman’s collapse and the financial market turmoil it
spurred, New York-based JPMorgan enforced the agreement and is
seeking $112 million from BVG.  BVG sought a decision that it doesn’t have to pay JPMorgan,
in light of what it called incorrect advice about the deal from
the bank. The U.K. and Berlin courts both asked for the EU
tribunal’s guidance on which held jurisdiction.  Haugesund, Narvik  Klaus Wazlak, a spokesman for BVG said in an e-mail the
company will analyze the ruling and may comment later. JPMorgan
spokesman Axel Luedeke declined to comment.  In a separate case involving losses on swaps, a London
court in 2009 ruled that while the Norwegian towns of Haugesund
and Narvik didn’t have the legal right to enter into swap
agreements, they were still obliged to pay 425 million kroner
($77.4 million) to a Depfa unit.  UBS last year won a London court ruling that a dispute over
a CDO deal with a German municipal utility should be heard in
the U.K.  Italian municipalities from across the country are being
sued by banks in London over swaps and, emboldened by a criminal
trial in Milan of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Depfa, JPMorgan and UBS,
increasingly more municipalities are filing complaints in their
hometown courts to avoid losses on the derivatives deals.  The case is C-144/10, Berliner Verkehrsbetriebe (BVG),
Anstalt des oeffentlichen Rechts v JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A.,
Frankfurt Branch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  