-- 
KBC Profit Beats Estimates on Reversal of Loan Impairments

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-05-12T16:26:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/kbc-profit-beats-estimates-on-reversal-of-loan-impairments-1-.html
KBC Groep NV (KBC) ,  Belgium ’s biggest bank
and insurer by market value, reported profit that beat analyst
estimates because of a reversal of some loan-loss provisions in
eastern  Europe , rising trading income and growth in mortgages.  First-quarter net income climbed to 821 million euros
($1.17 billion) from 442 million euros, the Brussels-based
company said today in a statement. Profit exceeded the 650.5
million-euro average estimate of eight analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. Revenue rose to 2.42 billion euros and impairment on
loans, net of reversals, fell 73 percent to 97 million euros.  KBC said its surplus capital under Basel II rules rose to
about 4.8 billion euros, a 300 million-euro increase from the
end of last year, even as the agreed sale of its private bank to
Hinduja Group was blocked by the Luxembourg regulator. KBC said
it put the unit up for sale again and also made a start with the
disposals of a German lending unit and Antwerp Diamond Bank. The
planned public offering of a minority stake in its Czech banking
unit remains on hold pending “optimal conditions,” KBC said.  “Net interest income was solid, as well as dealing room
activity,”  Albert Ploegh , an analyst at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam who had estimated profit of 796 million euros, wrote
in a note to investors. “The beat is explained by sharply
reduced loan losses.”  Shares Rise  KBC rose 2.3 percent to 28.56 euros at the 5:35 p.m. close
of trading in Brussels, the second-best performance among the 51
companies included in the Stoxx 600 Banks Index and extending
the stock’s advance to 12 percent this year.  The Belgian bank earned 126 million euros from market
activities, the most in almost three years, and reversals of
earlier provisions drove loan impairment to the lowest level
since the first quarter of 2008.  KBC took back 20 million euros of provisions in  Poland 
after selling part of its bad consumer loans in the country, 9
million euros in  Hungary  and a “significant” amount in  Russia .
The bank also reversed 15 million euros of provisions on asset-
backed securities in the Atomium structured investment vehicle.  Loans more than three months in arrears amounted to 6.76
billion euros at the end of March. That equals 4.2 percent of
KBC’s loan book, up from 4.1 percent at the end of last year.  Hungary, Ireland  Credit quality improved in Poland, Slovakia and Russia. It
deteriorated in Hungary, with 9 percent of the loan book at
least three months in arrears, and in Ireland, with non-
performing loans at 11.1 percent.  Speaking on a conference call, Chief Financial Officer Luc Popelier maintained KBC’s guidance that the proportion of bad
loans in Ireland will peak at 13 percent to 14 percent and that
additional provisions of 40 million euros to 50 million euros on
a quarterly basis will be sufficient to cover losses after
setting aside 525 million euros last year.  The Irish banking unit earned 13 million euros in the
quarter and KBC forecast its Hungarian banking and insurance
operations will remain profitable this year following a
quarterly loss as accounting rules forced KBC to include the
2011 bank levy in the first quarter. The industry levy cuts
pretax earnings in the country by 62 million euros this year.  KBC’s shareholders’ equity dropped to 32.40 euros a share
from 32.80 euros at the end of last year as the quarterly profit
was offset by the payment of 8.5 percent interest on the 7
billion euros of government funds received and a 258 million-
euro distribution to common stockholders.  Unrealized losses on KBC’s bond holdings also increased by
291 million euros in the quarter to 659 million euros at the end
of March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  