-- 
Kenya Shilling Heads for Weakest in 17 Years; Central Bank Boosts Reserves

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-05-12T11:39:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/kenya-shilling-heads-for-weakest-in-17-years-central-bank-boosts-reserves.html
Kenya ’s shilling headed for the
weakest close in 17 years against the dollar as the central bank
bought foreign currency for a third day to bolster reserves.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy depreciated
for a fourth day, losing as much as 0.6 percent to 86.35 per
dollar and trading 0.5 percent weaker at 86.20 by 2:01 p.m. in
Nairobi, the capital from a close of 85.80 yesterday.  The Central Bank of Kenya bought 4 million euros ($6
million) at 122.2344 shillings each today, taking purchases of
the common European currency to 14 million euros in the past
three days, according to central bank data. It also sold 1
billion shillings ($12 million) of  repurchase agreements  at 5.75
percent today after doing the same yesterday.  “They are trying to build up their reserves as they are
close to their target of four months’” import cover, Coura
Fall, an analyst with  Citibank NA  in Johannesburg, said by phone
today. “But buying the foreign exchange, they know they are
adding on the liquidity pressure, so by coming back and doing
the repo they are trying to offset what they have done with
forex.”  In a repurchase agreement an investor agrees to sell a
security to another trader, while at the same time arranging to
buy it back at a future date and at a pre-determined price.  Kenya’s usable foreign-exchange reserves increased to $3.96
billion, or 3.84 months’ import cover, last week from $3.956
billion in the week to April 29, the Nairobi-based  Central Bank 
of Kenya said in an e-mailed statement on May 6.  The Central Bank of Kenya Act stipulates the country must
hold a minimum of four months of import cover in reserve.  Risk Aversion   Commodities extended declines after  China  raised banks’
reserve requirements, heightening speculation slower growth will
curb raw materials demand. Greek  government bonds  fell, raising
yields on two-year notes to a record, as speculation the country
will have to restructure its debt intensified.  “The global risk aversion due to re-emerging debt crisis
concern in the eurozone is pushing the Central Bank to build its
reserves to ensure importers have access to sufficient foreign
exchange,” Chris Muiga, a senior dealer at Nairobi-based  Kenya
Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB) , said in a phone interview today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  