-- 
Krka Net Rises as Drugmaker Mulls Listing Outside Slovenia

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-05-12T12:38:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/krka-net-rises-as-drugmaker-mulls-listing-outside-slovenia-1-.html
Krka Group d.d. said profit in the
first three months advanced 2 percent on rising east European
sales as Slovenia’s biggest drugmaker plans a secondary listing.  Net income was 48 million euros ($68 million) compared with
47 million euros in the same period a year earlier, the Novo
mesto, Slovenia-based company said in a presentation.Sales rose
5 percent to 258 million euros.  “Russia and Ukraine remain the most important markets
where sales rose the most in this period and we expect the trend
to continue in the coming quarters,” Chief Executive Officer
Joze Colaric said today. “We plan to list part of our shares
outside Slovenia.”  Krka is investing in pharmaceutical facilities in Russia
and Slovenia because it expects sales in eastern  Europe  to
continue rising as economies in the region emerge from the
deepest recession since the fall of communism and consumption of
health products advances.  New Facilities  Krka is building a plant near Moscow in an investment worth
135 million euros that will start running in 2013. It is also in
the process of acquiring land near the border with  Croatia  to
construct another plant there.  The Slovenian company may follow the lender Nova Kreditna
Banka Maribor d.d. in listing its shares on the  Warsaw Stock
Exchange. (GPW)  Krka, which holds 5 percent of its own shares, will
keep the share buyback program at 10 percent of outstanding and
possibly list part of them on another market in the region,
Colaric said.  “We don’t need to raise fresh capital since our company
has very low debt,” Colaric said. “The Warsaw bourse could be
chosen, though a final decision hasn’t been taken yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  