-- 
Synagogue Attack by ’Islamic Extremists’ Stopped

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-05-13T00:40:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/new-york-synagogue-attack-is-said-to-be-thwarted-as-police-arrest-two-men.html
New York  police arrested two men who
allegedly plotted a terrorist attack on an unidentified, major
synagogue in Manhattan, authorities said.  Ahmed Ferhani, 26, a native of  Algeria , and Moroccan
immigrant Mohamed Mamdouh, 20, both residents of Queens, New
York, were arrested in a sting operation last night after
allegedly paying an undercover police agent for two Browning
semi-automatic pistols, a Smith & Wesson revolver, ammunition
and a grenade that they didn’t know was deactivated.  The men were described as “Islamic extremists” by
Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr., who said at a news
conference today that the two suspects “did it for Jihad.”  Ferhani, who was unemployed, said “he was fed up with the
way Muslims were being treated around the world,” New York
Police Commissioner Ray Kelly said at the news conference,
citing recordings of Ferhani made by the undercover agent.
“They’re treating us like dogs,” Ferhani allegedly said.  The men discussed disguising themselves as Jewish
worshippers as part of a plan to attack a synagogue, according
to a statement issued by Vance’s office.  “We will blow up a synagogue in  Manhattan  and take out the
entire building,” Ferhani said, according to Kelly.  ‘Hate Jews’  “I hate Jews,” Mamdouh said.  “I want to kill them,” Ferhani said in the recordings
made by the undercover New York police officer, Kelly said.  The men also discussed on the tapes wanting to blow up a
church in Queens and expressed an interest in bombing the Empire
State Building, Kelly said.  Investigators didn’t establish any ties between the
arrested men and the international terrorist group al-Qaeda,
Kelly said. The commissioner described them as “lone wolves.”  Kelly said the arrest was made yesterday during the
undercover investigation because of Ferhani’s interest in
obtaining weapons, and his “expressed desire to construct
increasingly powerful bombs.”  Police made the arrests in Manhattan about 6 p.m. yesterday
after Ferhani purchased weapons, Kelly said. Twelve detectives
in six unmarked cars converged on a late model Toyota Corolla
occupied by Ferhani at West 58th Street near the  West Side
Highway . Mamdouh was arrested by three detectives at about the
same time on the corner of West 57th Street and Ninth Avenue.  Asylum Claim  Ferhani came to the U.S. in 1995 from Algeria with two
siblings and his parents, who secured asylum, Kelly said.
Ferhani, who was granted permanent residency under the asylum
claim, has lived in Queens since, Kelly said. He was arrested at
least once before and has served time in New York’s jail on
Rikers Island, Kelly said.  Mamdouh, a livery service dispatcher, is a U.S. citizen by
virtue of his parents’ naturalization.  “We are concerned about ‘lone wolves’ acting against  New
York City  in the wake of the killing of bin Laden,” Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  said. He added that the plot was the 13th
thwarted since 9/11.  At an appearance in state court in Manhattan, Steven
Fusfeld, a lawyer for Mamdouh, said his client’s circumstances
differed from Ferhani’s and that they shouldn’t be treated the
same.  “My client said he is not guilty of these crimes,”
Fusfeld said after the arraignment. Ferhani’s attorney, Stephen
Pokart, told the judge: “Mr. Ferhani tells me he hasn’t
committed any crime at all.”  Judge Melissa Jackson ordered them held without bail and
scheduled their next appearance for May 17.  Ferhani and Mamdouh were charged under New York state law
with conspiracy in the second degree as a crime of terrorism,
conspiracy in the second degree as a hate crime, criminal
possession of a weapon in the second degree as a crime of
terrorism and attempted criminal possession of a weapon in the
first degree as a crime of terrorism. The maximum sentence they
face is life in prison without parole.  Last year, four men arrested as part of an FBI sting
operation were convicted in Manhattan federal court for plotting
to blow up synagogues in New York and fire heat-seeking missiles
at military planes. They face as long as life in prison when
they are sentenced on June 7.  Faisal Shahzad, a naturalized American citizen from
 Pakistan  who drove a bomb-laden vehicle into New York’s Times
Square on May 1, 2010, was sentenced in October by a federal
judge to life in prison for the failed terrorist attack.  The current case is part of a state probe.  In today’s complaint against Mamdouh and Ferhani, an
undercover officer described an April conversation about
planting bombs in synagogues, in which Mamdouh noted the
importance of paying for things in cash rather than credit
cards, so they wouldn’t get arrested like “the one that put the
car in Times Square.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 