-- 
Newt Gingrich, Seeking Presidency, Promises New ‘Contract With America’

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-05-12T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/newt-gingrich-promises-new-contract-with-america-in-his-presidential-bid.html
Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia , the latest
entrant into the 2012 Republican presidential race, says he will
offer a new “Contract With America” similar to the 1994
document that helped him become the first Republican House
speaker in 40 years.  Gingrich, who formally announced his candidacy yesterday,
said on Fox News Channel’s “Hannity” that he would ask Senate
Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and House Speaker
John Boehner of  Ohio  to join him with an agenda that a
Republican Congress would pass and a Republican president would
sign into law.  “If we had a contract in the fall of 2012 and we had an
election on core principles, we would have a mandate on the very
first day,” said Gingrich, 67.  The former House speaker talked about the need to “win the
future,” parroting a line that President Barack Obama -- the
Democrat Gingrich is seeking to unseat -- used in his State of
the Union speech to Congress in January and that he has
occasionally recycled since then.  “This is about millions of Americans deciding we can win
the future with the right policies leading to the right
outcomes,” Gingrich said on Fox. “President Obama has the
wrong policies leading to the wrong outcomes.”  Contract With America  Gingrich presented the first Contract With America at the
Capitol in 1994, promising a vote on its 10 items if the
Republicans won the majority in the House. They did, and in
January 1995 he became the first Republican House speaker since
Representative  Joe Martin  of  Massachusetts , who served in the
post from 1953 to 1955. Gingrich’s official portrait at the
Capitol depicts him holding the original contract.  In 1997, Gingrich was reprimanded by the House and paid
$300,000 to settle claims that he had used tax-exempt
organizations for political purposes and had given misleading
statements during an investigation. He announced his resignation
from Congress in November 1998 after the House Republicans saw
their majority shrink in the second consecutive election.  As speaker, he championed the House’s impeachment of
President  Bill Clinton  over the president’s relationship with a
White House intern. The Senate acquitted Clinton. It later was
disclosed that while promoting Clinton’s impeachment, Gingrich
was having an extramarital affair with a congressional staff
member, who became his third wife in 2000.  Republican Contenders  Gingrich is the first among the more prominent prospective
Republican White House contenders to formally declare his
candidacy.  Four other Republicans have filed paperwork with the
 Federal Election Commission  to raise money for their
presidential campaigns and are expected to soon officially
announce that they are running for president. They include two
former governors --  Tim Pawlenty  of  Minnesota  and Mitt Romney of
Massachusetts -- along with former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum of
 Pennsylvania  and Representative Ron Paul of  Texas .  Others considering a run include former Arkansas Governor
Mike Huckabee; former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, the 2008
Republican vice-presidential nominee; Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota, a Tea Party favorite; real estate
developer Donald Trump; Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels; and
former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman, who returned to the U.S. last
month after serving as Obama’s ambassador to  China .  Herman Cain, the former chairman and chief executive
officer of Godfather’s Pizza Inc., and former New Mexico
Governor Gary Johnson also have declared their candidacies. They
joined Pawlenty, Paul and Santorum for the campaign’s first
debate on May 5 in  South Carolina .  Former Louisiana Governor Buddy Roemer, a Democrat-turned-
Republican, has formed an exploratory committee for a possible
run.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  