-- 
NFL Players Seek Cash for Owners’ TV Deal During Lockout

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   J a y   W e i n e r
-- 
2011-05-12T18:15:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/nfl-players-seek-cash-for-owners-decision-on-tv-payments.html
National Football League  players
asked a U.S. judge to award them damages for team owners’
decision to trade their top price for television broadcast
rights for $4 billion in payments during a labor lockout.  “The NFL illegally obtained a $4 billion war chest to fund
the lockout,” Jeffrey Kessler, a lawyer for the players, told
U.S. District Judge David Doty today at a hearing in
 Minneapolis . “They did so without good faith.”  Attorneys for the players asked Doty for an order barring
the owners from accessing those funds. They’re also seeking as
much as $700 million in damages, Kessler’s co-counsel, Thomas J.
Heiden, told reporters outside the court.  The hearing comes while the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  St.
Louis , in a separate case, weighs whether to uphold an order by
a federal judge in St. Paul,  Minnesota , for the NFL to end the
lockout it imposed March 12.  In their labor fight, team owners and players are arguing
over the distribution of about $9 billion in league revenue, the
most in U.S. sports. The two sides also disagree about extending
the regular season by two games, capping rookie pay and paying
for players’ health care.  Doty ruled March 1 that the 32-team league violated the
terms of a settlement agreement, first created in 1993, that
obligated the owners to make their best effort to maximize total
revenue for the league and its players in 2009 and 2010.  Lockout Provisions  The NFL extended broadcast contracts and altered lockout
provisions with DirecTV,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox,  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN Inc.  “The NFL renegotiated the broadcast contracts to benefit
its exclusive interest at the expense of, and contrary to, the
joint interests of the NFL and the players,” Doty said in that
ruling. “Broadcast contracts are an enormous source of shared
revenue for the players and the NFL.”  Gregg H. Levy, a lawyer for the league, told Doty today
that “nobody knew the likelihood of a lockout in 2009,” when
the TV deals were being renegotiated.  “There is nothing, zero, in this record that there was a
plan or a commitment to have a lockout,” Levy said. “Was there
a contingency plan? Yes. Was there a commitment? Certainly no.”  ‘Enormous Source’  Doty, who has overseen the NFL labor contract since 1993,
ordered today’s hearing to consider the award of money damages
and other relief for the players based on his March ruling. He
said today that he thought the labor dispute might have been
resolved by now, making the hearing unnecessary.  “I thought possibly by now that this matter would have
been decided,” Doty said.  “It seems to me you’re asking me to put my thumb on the
scale and push something along,” he said later.  The case before Doty was filed in 1992 in the name of then-
Philadelphia Eagles defensive lineman Reggie White. White, now a
member of the Pro Football Hall of Fame in Canton,  Ohio , died in
2004. Another named plaintiff in the suit, former Chicago Bears
player Dave Duerson, died this year.  The players seek to prevent the NFL from using the $4
billion from the disputed TV payments to fund operations. The
players want the money placed in escrow during the lockout.  The NFL has said the money is a loan that will have to be
repaid if no games are played.  Special Master  In March, Doty upheld Special Master Stephen Burbank’s
decision to award the players $6.9 million in damages for the
league giving the NBC television network broadcast rights to an
additional 2010 regular-season game in exchange for an amended
work-stoppage provision.  Doty overruled Burbank’s findings that the league hadn’t
violated the 1993 accord in negotiations with CBS, NBC, Fox,
ESPN and satellite broadcaster  DirecTV. (DTV)   The players on March 31 asked Doty to order the DirecTV
revenue be placed in escrow until the labor lockout is over.  League owners responded in an April 22 court filing in
which they said the National Football League Players
Association, which is pursuing the White litigation, is no
longer representing the players as a union.  The association on March 11 announced it would no longer
act as the players’ representative after talks on a new
collective bargaining agreement collapsed. New England Patriots
quarterback  Tom Brady  and nine other athletes filed the
antitrust lawsuit in St. Paul against the NFL that day.  League owners declared the lockout at midnight that night.  Doty told the parties he would rule on the players’
requests “in due season.”  The TV rights case is White v. National Football League,
92-cv-00906, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota
(Minneapolis). The antitrust case is Brady v. NFL, 11-cv-00639,
U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota ( St. Paul ) and 11-
1898, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit (St. Louis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Jay Weiner in Minneapolis at 
 jay.weiner@comcast.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  