-- 
Ghosn Says Suppliers Recovering From Quake

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 
2011-05-12T22:19:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/nissan-beats-estimates-after-earthquake.html
Nissan Motor Co. Chief Executive
Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said fewer than 20 suppliers are still in a
critical situation, down from 40 in March, after  Japan ’s record
earthquake halted factories and crimped domestic sales.  “Much less than half” of the suppliers have yet to
recover, allowing Nissan to forecast that global production will
return to normal levels by October, Ghosn said yesterday in an
interview in Yokohama, Japan. “We’re closing down on these
cases and there’s a very collaborative effort that is taking
place.”  To prevent future disruptions to production, Nissan,
Japan’s second-largest automaker, will ask second- and third-
tier suppliers to implement “alternate sourcing” of
components, which they currently lack, Ghosn said. That may mean
suppliers, particularly semiconductor makers, may be able to
produce the same component in multiple factories around the
country, he said.  Nissan yesterday said it boosted fourth-quarter profit even
as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  reported a 77 percent drop in earnings
after the 9-magnitude temblor in March damaged parts factories
and power plants, causing shortages of components and
electricity. Ghosn has said the current quarter will be tougher
for the carmaker and its Japanese rivals as they recover from
the plunge in sales and factory disruptions that followed the
disaster.  “If Nissan can go back to full production in October, that
is fast,” said Tadashi Usui, an analyst at Moody’s K.K. in
Tokyo. “The loss from the earthquake is smaller for Nissan as
its domestic output level is only half of Toyota’s.”  Beating Estimates  Nissan’s net income was 30.8 billion yen ($380 million) for
the three months ended March 31, compared with an 11.6 billion
yen loss a year earlier, beating the 23 billion yen average of
five analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 10
percent to 2.35 trillion yen, the Yokohama-based company said.  Toyota, the world’s biggest automaker, posted 25.4 billion
yen in fourth-quarter net income earlier this week. Nissan built
25 percent of its vehicles in Japan last fiscal year, compared
with 45 percent at Toyota. Third-ranked Honda Motor Co. made 26
percent of its cars at home.  Toyota said earlier this week that 30 parts are in short
supply, down from 150 in April and 500 in March. Ghosn declined
to comment on the number of individual components made by the
suppliers in recovery.  U.S. Inventory  Nissan moved production of its March small car to  Thailand 
from Japan in July, partly because of the yen’s gain, and
imports the model to Japan. Helped by demand for the compact
model, Nissan’s domestic sales drop last month was limited to 37
percent, while the decline was 69 percent at Toyota.  In a letter to U.S. dealers yesterday, Nissan said it has
more inventory than Toyota and Honda and its plants haven’t been
as severely disrupted by the earthquake. Nissan, sixth in the
U.S. by sales volume, began May with a 64-day supply of cars and
light trucks, compared with 48 days for Toyota and 36 days for
Honda, according to the letter.  “We are in very good shape and have a competitive
advantage over our main rivals going into May, and one that is
only likely to get stronger as we go through the summer,”  Al Castignetti , Nissan’s vice president of U.S. sales, said in the
letter.  Production in Japan  Ghosn said yesterday the automaker maintains a commitment
to make 1 million vehicles a year in Japan. The company produced
4.15 million vehicles globally last fiscal year.  “The March 11 earthquake in Japan significantly disrupted
our operations,” Ghosn said in a statement.  Nissan lost production of 55,000 units in Japan in March,
compared with the company’s original plan. The carmaker will
initially face a “significant” market-share loss globally
because of the earthquake and plans to catch up in the second
half of the fiscal year, Ghosn said.  Nissan plans to prioritize  China  and the U.S., the world’s
two biggest auto markets, to stem market-share losses and still
plans to increase full-year sales, he said.  Renesas Electronics Corp., the biggest maker of
microcontrollers used in cars, mobile phones and cameras,
suffered damage from the earthquake at its plant in Ibaraki
prefecture. A shortage of microcontrollers was a major reason
for automakers’ inability to build cars. Renesas expects to
resume production at the plant in early June.  Nissan Engine Factory  In addition to disruptions at suppliers, a Nissan engine
factory in Fukushima prefecture was damaged in the earthquake
and was shut until April 17. Apart from its Kyushu plant in
southern Japan, all of Nissan’s car-building factories were shut
until March 23.  In April, Nissan’s production volume in Japan was at about
40 percent of last year’s level, and output this month is at
about 50 percent, the company has said. Production has also been
halted periodically from April at factories in  Mexico , the U.S.
and the U.K. In China, plants are halting weekend and overtime
shifts.  To overcome power shortages, Nissan is considering more
nighttime operations and additional in-house electricity
generation, and possibly changing days of operation, Ghosn said.  Shares in the carmaker rose 11 yen, or 1.4 percent, to 795
yen at the 3 p.m. close of trading in  Tokyo  yesterday, before
the earnings announcement. The stock has dropped 2.6 percent
since March 10, the day before the earthquake.  Vehicle Sales  In the fourth quarter, Nissan booked 39.6 billion yen as an
extraordinary loss, the company said.  Nissan’s global vehicle sales rose 16 percent to 1.17
million in the three months ended March 31. The gain was led by
 North America  and  Asia  excluding Japan.  Sales at home fell 22 percent to 162,000 after the
earthquake and the end of a government subsidy program that
encouraged sales of fuel-efficient models. Sales in North
America rose 22 percent to 354,000 and in Asia, excluding Japan,
deliveries surged 29 percent to 353,000.  Net income for the 12 months ended March 31 was 319.2
billion yen, more than seven times what the automaker reported a
year earlier. Sales gained 17 percent to 8.77 trillion yen,
Nissan said yesterday.  Operating profit rose 73 percent to 537.5 billion yen, even
after a stronger Japanese currency cut the figure by 148 billion
yen, the company said.  Electric Car  Nissan also began selling its battery-powered Leaf electric
car in Japan, the U.S. and some countries in  Europe  in December.
Nissan and partner  Renault SA (RNO)  plan to have capacity to build
500,000 electric cars a year by 2012.  Like Toyota and Honda, Nissan declined to provide an
earnings forecast for the fiscal year started April 1, citing
the impact of the earthquake on production. Nissan plans to
announce a midterm plan before its annual shareholders meeting
in June, Ghosn said.  The carmaker may post a 48 billion yen net loss for the six
months ending Sept. 30, according to the average of 11 analyst
estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  