-- 
No Jail for Economic Crisis May Mean No Crime: Roger Lowenstein

-- B y   R o g e r   L o w e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-05-12T16:06:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/no-jail-for-economic-crisis-may-mean-no-crime-roger-lowenstein.html
“Forgive me,” began  Charles Ferguson ,
the director of  “Inside Job,”  while accepting his 2011 Oscar
for best documentary. “I must start by pointing out that three
years after a horrific financial crisis caused by massive fraud,
not a single financial executive has gone to jail, and that’s
wrong.”  The audience erupted in applause.  Ferguson isn’t the first to express outrage over the lack
of criminal cases to spring from the financial crisis, and his
speech triggered a wave of similarly prosecutorial sentiments,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in May 16 issue.  Since that February night, financial journalists, bloggers
and who knows how many dinner party guests have debated the
trillion-dollar question: When will a Wall Street executive be
sent to jail?  There are those who have implied that prosecutors are
either too cozy with  Wall Street  or too incompetent to bring
cases to court.  Thus, in a measured piece that assessed the guilt of
various financial executives, New York Times columnist  Joe Nocera  lamented that “Wall Street bigwigs whose firms took
unconscionable risks . . . aren’t even on Justice’s radar
screen.”  A news story in the Times about a mortgage executive who
was convicted of criminal fraud observed, “The  Justice
Department  has yet to bring charges against an executive who ran
a major Wall Street firm leading up to the disaster.”  No Public Accounting  In the same dispassionate tone, National Public Radio’s  All
Things Considered  chimed in, “Some of the most publicly reviled
figures in the mortgage mess won’t face any public accounting.”  New York magazine saw fit to print the estimable opinion of
 Bernie Madoff , who observed that the dearth of criminal
convictions is “unbelievable.”  Rolling Stone , which has been
beating this drum the longest and with the heaviest hand,
reductively asked, “Why isn’t Wall Street in jail?”  Taken from the top, these sentiments imply that the
financial crisis was caused by fraud; that people who take big
risks should be subject to a criminal investigation; that
executives of large financial firms should be criminal suspects
after a crash; that public revulsion indicates likely
culpability; that it is inconceivable (to Madoff, anyway) that
people could lose so much money absent a conspiracy; and that
Wall Street bears collective guilt for which a large part of it
should be incarcerated.  Harmful Assumptions  These assumptions do violence to our system of justice and
hinder our understanding of the crisis. The claim that it was
“caused by financial fraud” is debatable, but the weight of the
evidence is strongly against it.  The financial crisis was accompanied by fraud, on the part
of mortgage applicants as well as banks. It was caused, more
nearly, by a speculative bubble in mortgages, in which bankers,
applicants, investors, and regulators were all blind to risk.  More broadly, the crash was the result of a tendency in our
financial culture, especially after a period of buoyancy, to
push leverage and risk-taking to the extreme.  Mortgage fraud exacerbated the bubble -- as did, among
other factors, lax monetary policy, failure by Congress and
successive administrations to rein in  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac , and weak financial regulation, itself a product of the
discredited but entrenched thesis that markets are efficient and
self-policing.  At the banks, overconfidence in “risk management” methods
(which were mostly worthless) and ill-considered compensation
practices were serious contributing causes.  Multi-Causal Meltdown  As this list suggests, the meltdown was multi-causal. That
explanation will be unsatisfying to armchair prosecutors, but it
has the virtue of answering to the complex nature of the bubble.  To prosecute white-collar crime is right and proper, and a
necessary aspect of deterrence. But trials are meant to deter
crime -- not to deter home foreclosures or economic downturns.
And to look for criminality as the supposed source of the crisis
is to misread its origins badly.  Consider an oft-cited example of a high Wall Street crime:
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s use of an accounting tactic
known as Repo 105. Lehman exploited a loophole in accounting
rules to sell assets, getting them off its balance sheet even as
it was obligated to repurchase them a short while later. This
gave it an end-of-quarter appearance of being less leveraged.  Lehman used Repo 105 as early as 2001, and increasingly in
2007 and ’08, when it was concerned about its reported leverage.
Lehman’s transactions may have been individually permissible
(and were blessed by its auditor, Ernst & Young).  Criminal Intent  The seeming intent -- to mislead investors -- was
dishonest, and the tactic raised concerns within Lehman at the
time. To prosecute it criminally, however, you would need to
show willful intent to defraud, which is difficult.  But suppose it were criminal. Suppose further that Richard Fuld, the firm’s chief executive officer, was one of the perps.
It remains, at most, a trivial event in the subsequent crash.  Although Repo 105 enabled Lehman to mask $50 billion of
debt, the firm’s reported debt was more than $600 billion. Put
differently, Lehman’s net leverage ratio was either 15 times or
17 times, both sky-high. Either way, the world knew it was
highly leveraged, and its solvency was a matter of intense
public debate.  Had Lehman presented its balance sheet with more candor, it
conceivably would have suffered its crisis earlier; maybe it
would have failed in July instead of September.  True Cause  Regardless, the cause of the failure wasn’t Lehman’s
misguided attempt to beautify its books. It was its excessive
appetite for debt, and the risk tolerance of its creditors, for
years before.  This distinction may seem a quibble, but the yearning to
pin the crisis on a handful of supposed criminals distorts the
story we tell about it.  The mortgage crisis was a societal breakdown--a massive
failure of the private market, Wall Street in particular. It
wasn’t, fundamentally, rooted in fraud.  Enron Corp. was fraud. The bankers convicted in the savings
and loan scandal who dealt sweetheart loans to friends were
fraudulent. These people had their hands, willfully, in the
till -- and knew it.  Bankers in the ’00s behaved frightfully, often with utter
disregard for fiscal soundness, but in general, far more harm to
the financial system was wreaked by actions that were legal.  The rating companies were a shining example.  Crucial Ratings  Ratings were crucial to the distribution of mortgage
securities, and therefore to the bubble. The services sold their
ratings to the very firms that were peddling the bonds, and thus
were in a highly conflicted position.  They did not secretly conspire to trade ratings for cash --
they didn’t need to. The relationship was open, and the suasion
was gradual and systemic. Over time, under the influence of
market pressure, and also due to their own rising comfort with
the housing market, the rating companies became steadily less
vigilant.  To call them criminal is to call the culture criminal,
which is a point of rhetoric, not law. More nearly, they were
part of a corrupt system that did tremendous harm.  By contrast, in another oft-cited example, when  Lloyd Blankfein , CEO of Goldman Sachs, testified that Goldman “didn’t
have a massive short against the housing market,” he seemed to
be spinning the facts. Other evidence suggests Goldman was
indeed short.  Testimony Caused Nothing  Whether or not Blankfein’s testimony crossed the line into
perjury (and if so, by all means charge him), it was irrelevant
to the financial crisis, which long preceded it.  Goldman has, more generally, suffered from the presumption
that anyone who made money during the meltdown must have been
guilty of something hideous (this was the reason for Blankfein’s
denial).  I wasn’t a fan of Goldman’s slickness in letting a short-
seller design a collateralized debt obligation that Goldman
marketed to clients, for which it was sanctioned by the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  However, its unsavory dealmaking should not obscure that in
betting, correctly, against the housing market, it helped
mitigate the crash. Had more firms done as Goldman and shorted
mortgages, fewer unsound loans would have been issued.  Converse to the Goldman example of punishing profits, there
is an assumption that heads of failed Wall Street banks should
stand trial for their failures.  Ex-Merrill CEO  The most incompetent, in my opinion, was Stanley O’Neal,
the former CEO of Merrill Lynch & Co., who remained blissfully
unaware that Merrill held a devastating $50 billion of CDOs
until it was too late. His exit package, worth $160 million at
the time, was a disgrace to the Merrill board that allowed it.  But imprisonment is a punishment for criminality -- not a
sociological remedy for unfairness, incompetence or outsize
losses.  “To send someone to jail,” says Joel Seligman, who wrote an
authoritative  history  of the SEC and is now president of the
University of Rochester, “it isn’t enough to say their firm lost
money, or their clients lost money.”  The demands for jail sentences are buttressed by the
populist notion that Wall Street is basically a Ponzi scheme.  “Ponzi,” of course, derives from Charles Ponzi, an
immigrant financier who created a sensation in  Boston  in 1920 by
promising 50 percent returns in 45 days. Although he claimed to
be investing in postal reply coupons -- buying discounted
international postage and redeeming it for face value in the
U.S. -- Ponzi had no source of funds other than those from
investors.  Ponzi Scheme?  Madoff was his carbon copy. But was all of Wall Street a
copy, too?  Ferguson says yes. Recently the director slammed author
Diana B. Henriques  (“The Wizard of Lies: Bernie Madoff and the
Death of Trust” ) for failing to see, as Ferguson does, that
Madoff shed “a ghoulishly revealing light . . . on what was
contemporaneously happening to America’s financial system and
government.”  This overlooks some crucial distinctions.  Mortgage securities had an element of Ponzi in that new
financing was required to sustain people whose mortgages were
under water. However, many companies would grind to a halt
without refinancing. The reason they don’t is that most have
genuine income.  This was also true of mortgage securities. The system of
issuing bonds backed by mortgage payments had endured, with few
hiccups, for 30 years. Mortgages were not postal reply coupons.  Going to Extremes  They became, of course, hugely overextended. It is a truism
that Wall Street takes a good idea to extreme, whence springs
trouble. Even so, being negligent and even reckless with a
viable business is not the same as cooking up a scheme in which
revenue never existed.  Bubbly markets inevitably attract con men, but not every
episode of wrongdoing warrants high-level prosecution.  On May 3, the Justice Department brought a scathing civil
action against  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  claiming the bank lied about the
risk in mortgages that a subsidiary endorsed as qualifying for
Federal Housing Administration insurance.  The case involves 39,000 loans, whose quality the Deutsche
unit was required to monitor. Some 12,000 of the loans
defaulted.  According to the suit, Deutsche (taking advantage of the
government insurance) didn’t even bother to read reports
detailing the loans’ poor quality.  More Mortgages  The bank even reassigned the staff member dedicated to
auditing the mortgages to producing more mortgages! Deutsche has
denied the charges.  The Justice Department has already been ripped, publicly,
for failing to prosecute. It is worth noting that the U.S.
attorney on the Deutsche case,  Preet Bharara , is the same
attorney who conducted the trial of Raj Rajaratnam, the hedge
fund manager convicted of  insider trading .  In deciding whether to bring a criminal case at Deutsche,
Justice had to answer whether senior executives had intimate
participation in the bad behavior. The question was complicated
by the fact that Deutsche acquired the lending subsidiary only
in January 2007 -- when, according to the Frankfurt-based
investment bank, 90 percent of the loans had already been
issued.  If Justice did decide that higher-ups were implicated, it
had to resolve whether they merely failed to monitor loan
quality or actively conspired to defraud. The latter is harder
to prove and presumably less frequent.  Civil and Criminal  In a civil action, a verdict may be based on the
preponderance of evidence. A criminal case requires a stronger
narrative -- and a willful protagonist.  One of the first prosecutions in the wake of the mortgage
bust (against two Bear Stearns Cos. hedge fund managers accused
of lying about the risk in their funds’ portfolios) failed
precisely because the e-mail evidence attesting to the
defendants’ state of mind was contradictory.  While it may be harder to prove criminal guilt, it’s easier
for people to believe that some bad actor is the cause of bad
things. This is a persistent trait in the national character.
Historian  Richard Hofstadter  identified it in 1964 as “The
Paranoid Style in American Politics.”  He was writing mostly about McCarthyism, though he
recognized that paranoia isn’t limited to the political Right.
Nor is it always harnessed to an unworthy cause; convicting
criminals, especially in high places, isn’t just worthy, it’s
crucial to democracy.  Paranoid Style  The paranoid style, as Hofstadter defined it, has as much
to do with “style” as paranoia -- it’s about “the way in which
ideas are believed [more] than with the truth or falsity of
their content.” It spawned a rhetoric that tilted every question
toward conspiracy, so that random or unfortunate events were
seen to compose a “baffling pattern.”  Thus, the “sharp decline” -- Hofstadter was writing about
America’s perceived international strength, not the price of
real estate -- did not “just happen.” It was inevitably brought
about by “will and intention.”  We could follow this strain through the dismal
historiography of JFK assassination buffs to the beliefs that
 Washington  was implicated in Pearl Harbor and Sept. 11, to the
anti-federalist fantasies of the far right.  Such inquiries adhere to what Nassim N. Taleb, author of
“The  Black Swan ,” describes as the “narrative fallacy” -- the
desire to impose on chaotic events a more deterministic set of
causalities.  Real Debate  Although a few people forecast the crash, most people (even
in financial firms) did not. There was genuine debate over
whether a bubble existed.  This is not to deny the atrociously unsound, and often
unethical, loan practices. It is to assert that Stan O’Neal
probably did not recognize that the mortgages his firm owned
were a house of cards. The evidence of bad lending was not so
widely apparent as it was later.  Even when subprime issuers were in a state of collapse,  Ben Bernanke  and his colleagues were deeply divided over whether the
U.S. faced a recession. The  Federal Reserve ’s view was a muddle.
In contrast, the story that accusers tell is coherent.  As Hofstadter recognized, “the paranoid mind is far more
coherent than the real world.”  It may seem incredible that foolishness, greed, and
negligence could lead to a calamitous, long-enduring recession
in which millions of people lost their jobs. But financial
history is replete with bubbles and crashes.  1929 Crash  No person -- no criminal, that is -- caused the Great
Depression. Stock manipulation (most of it, at the time, legal)
was surely a factor in the Crash of ’29.  Exhibit A was Charles E. Mitchell, president of National
City Bank. “Sunshine Charley” avidly sold securities of dubious
character to hapless clients and whipped up speculation with
margin loans. His trial, on charges of  tax evasion , resulted in
acquittal.  However, the country drew the right lessons. It enacted
rules for securities disclosure and created a cop on the beat
(the SEC). It also established  deposit insurance , which would
avert future bank runs. Bankers, though not incarcerated, were
shamed, thanks to electrifying public hearings.  Mitchell’s closest contemporary peer is Angelo Mozilo.  A flamboyant salesman, Mozilo did more at his Countrywide
Financial Corp. than anyone to popularize subprime mortgages, as
well as mortgages with no money down. Neither the products nor
their popularization is a crime.  Mozilo Era  Under Mozilo, Countrywide Financial issued billions of
dollars of mortgages with apparent neglect for whether the
borrowers were creditworthy. His company contributed to the
heights of the bubble and to the depths of the crash.  Such behavior is why financial markets require renewed,
tough regulation and supervision. It’s also why the compensation
system must be overhauled to remove the incentive for creating
ephemeral profits that ultimately go up in smoke.  Congress has gone to exhaustive labors, enacting the 2,000-
page Dodd-Frank reform (which, among other provisos, creates a
new  consumer protection bureau ) to prevent a future Mozilo. To
the extent the reforms may be lacking, it is up to Congress, not
the Justice Department, to make amends.  Mozilo settled civil charges with the SEC for a record
$67.5 million. Regrettably, most of the fine was paid by Bank of
America.  Chief’s Pay  Moreover, the settlement was dwarfed by Mozilo’s
compensation, which included (but was in no way limited to)
stock sales of nearly $140 million prior to Countrywide’s
collapse.  Prosecutors  investigated Mozilo but didn’t charge him.
Their decision was disappointing at an emotional level, but
indictments cannot be geared to repairing feelings of
frustration.  Lanny Breuer, head of the Justice Department’s criminal
division, told NPR he sought to bring cases only where guilt
could be proved beyond a reasonable doubt, and without filtering
decisions through the screen of public opinion. This statement
was remarkable only in that Breuer felt it had to be said.  Seligman says he sees “a serious enforcement effort,” both
civil and prosecutorial.  It’s hard, of course, to second-guess any specific decision
not to indict. But it’s worth remembering that in the American
legal system, people who merely act badly or unwisely do not do
time. And people who contribute to a financial collapse aren’t
guilty of a crime absent specific violations that make them so.  We should be thankful for that.  To contact the writer of this column:
 Roger Lowenstein  at  elrogl@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 