-- 
Nobel Laureate Yunus Resigns at Grameen

-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 
2011-05-13T01:14:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/nobel-laureate-yunus-resigns-at-grameen-1-.html
Nobel Laureate  Muhammad Yunus 
resigned as managing director of  Bangladesh ’s Grameen Bank a
week after the nation’s  Supreme Court  dismissed his appeal to
remain as head of the microlender he founded.  Deputy Managing Director Nurjahan Begum will take over from
Yunus until the board names a chief, Dhaka-based  Grameen Bank 
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Yunus, 70, breached
retirement norms by staying at the helm past age 60, K.M. Abdul Wadood, the central bank’s general manager for banking
regulation and policy, said on March 1.  Differences between Yunus, who won the  Nobel Prize  in 2006
for his work in founding Grameen, and Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s government surfaced in December when Norwegian
television reported misuse of aid to the lender. Grameen denied
any wrongdoing. Yunus’s resignation may slow the lender’s growth,
said Selim Raihan, associate professor of economics at Dhaka
University.  “The absence of Dr. Yunus will be a big setback for
Grameen Bank. The two are synonymous,” Raihan said in an
interview yesterday. “The next chief must not only have skills,
but sympathy for the organization.”  Yunus and nine directors of the bank challenged the
Bangladesh central bank’s call in the  High Court , according to a
March 3 statement on Grameen’s website. The High Court on March
9 rejected an appeal made by Yunus and the directors of the
lender challenging the central bank’s decision. The Supreme
Court on May 5 also dismissed Yunus’s appeal.  ‘Honorable Transition’  Finance Minister Abul Maal Abdul Muhith yesterday said the
government will form a panel to find a replacement for Yunus.  “We want an honorable transition for the nation’s only
Nobel laureate, who is the country’s pride,” Muhith told
reporters.  Bangladesh’s government owns 25 percent of Grameen, Yunus
said in March, while customers hold the balance. It lends to its
8.35 million clients, of which 97 percent are women and more
than 112,000 beggars, using funds from its deposits.  The bank employs 26,000 people and has 2,565 branches
across the South Asian nation, where the  Asian Development Bank 
estimates almost half the population of 144 million lives on
less than $1.25 a day.  Grameen has lent $10.3 billion since it began operations in
1976 and had a loan recovery rate of 97 percent as of the end of
February, according to the lender’s website.  “I am taking this step without prejudice to the legal
issues raised before the Supreme Court,” Yunus said in the
statement. This will “prevent undue disruption of the
activities of Grameen Bank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  