-- 
North Korea Rejects Invitation by South’s Lee for Summit on Nuclear Plans

-- B y   B r e t t   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-05-12T01:58:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/north-korea-rejects-invitation-by-south-s-lee-for-summit-on-nuclear-plans.html
North Korea  rejected South Korean
President Lee Myung Bak’s proposal for a summit with  Kim Jong Il 
to discuss nuclear issues as a “ridiculous attempt to disarm”
the communist nation.  Lee’s invitation, made during a visit to Berlin this week,
is conditional on North Korea promising to abandon its atomic
weapons program.  “Outbursts raising someone’s ‘dismantlement of nukes’ as a
precondition for dialogue are no more than a ridiculous attempt
to disarm the DPRK and realize the ambition for invading it in
collusion with the U.S.,” the state-run Korean Central News
Agency said yesterday, referring to North Korea’s official name,
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.  North Korea has reported progress on its nuclear programs
even after the  United Nations  toughened sanctions, in November
disclosing its capabilities to enrich uranium that provide a
second means of making weapons. Its talks with China,  Japan ,
 Russia ,  South Korea  and the U.S. on dismantling its atomic
program haven’t convened since 2008.  Relations between North Korea and South Korea deteriorated
last year after North Korea shelled a disputed island, killing
four South Koreans, and an international investigation blamed
Kim’s military for a torpedo attack on a South Korean warship
that killed 46 sailors.  Inter-Korean Talks  South Korea’s “puppet group was so preposterous as to
describe the DPRK’s ‘apology’ for the above-said two cases as an
option for crossing the threshold of inter-Korean dialogue,”
KCNA said in a statement attributed to an unidentified spokesman
for North Korea’s Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of
Korea.  Kim told visiting former U.S. President  Jimmy Carter  last
month that he is ready to meet Lee any time and over any issue.
The South Korean president plans to host a summit in  Seoul  next
year as part of a global initiative championed by U.S. President
 Barack Obama  to secure nuclear stockpiles. North Korea carried
out its second nuclear test in 2009.  Inviting North Korea requires a “firm statement” by Kim’s
regime “that it will renounce nuclear weapons,” Lee said on
May 9 after meeting in Berlin with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. He called his comment “an official proposal.”  The South Korean leader drew a parallel with the 21-year-
old reunification of East and West  Germany  after visiting the
Brandenburg Gate, which once stood inside the Berlin Wall’s
death strip that separated the Cold War enemies.  “We hope -- and I wish -- that we’ll be able to go from
North  Korea  to the South through some gate as well,” Lee said.  German Model  North Korea rejected any idea of using the German model for
reunification.  “The group is seeking to import the mode of reunification
applied by a foreign country,” it said in the statement carried
by KCNA. “This is as foolish an act as expecting the sky to
fall. The Korean Peninsula is not Germany.”  North Korea and South Korea, facing off across the world’s
most heavily armed border, remain technically at war since their
1950-53 conflict ended in a cease-fire, which was never replaced
by a peace treaty. The U.S. stations  troops  in South Korea as a
legacy of the Korean War, when  China  fought alongside North
Korea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Miller in Seoul at 
 Bmiller30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brian Fowler 
 Bfowler4@bloomberg.net  