-- 
Norway Increases Benchmark Interest Rate

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-05-12T14:02:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/norway-increases-benchmark-interest-rate.html
Norway’s central bank raised  interest
rates  for the first time in a year, and signaled a series of
increases to limit inflation as an economic recovery gathers
pace in the world’s second-richest country per capita.  The overnight deposit rate was raised by a quarter of a
percentage point to 2.25 percent, Governor Oeystein Olsen said
today at a press conference in Oslo, a move expected by 15 of
the 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank kept a
forecast calling for two more quarter point increases this year.  “The upturn in the Norwegian economy has gained a firm
footing,” Olsen said. “Several other central banks have raised
their key rates. The consideration of stabilizing activity and
inflation somewhat further ahead suggests that the key policy
rate should be raised.”  Olsen is trying to steer a consumer-driven recovery in the
seventh-largest oil exporter as unemployment has dipped below 3
percent, pushing up credit growth and fueling gains in property
prices. Inflation, which has been below the bank’s 2.5 percent
target since July 2009, accelerated to a nine-month high in
April.  Overall Judgment  The krone was little changed against the euro at 7.8321 as
of 3:41 p.m. in Oslo. Against the dollar, the krone traded 0.1
percent lower at 5.5231.  Norway ’s three-year yield rose 2 basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.46 percent.  The bank, which  expects  to lift its benchmark to an average
of 4.75 percent by 2014, shelved a series increases in May last
year on concern Europe’s debt crisis would stifle exports. Since
then, a commodity price boom has spurred inflation, forcing
banks from  Asia  to Europe to raise rates.  “There are no changes in our overall judgment regarding
the future interest rate path,” Olsen said today in an
interview. “The interest rate path that we published indicated
that more interest increases are to come.”  The  European Central Bank  and policy makers in  Sweden , the
Philippines, Malaysia and  India  all tightened policy in the past
two months. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said this week
central bankers are united in fighting inflation.  “Other central banks have started hiking rates giving
Norges Bank more room to maneuver because the rate differentials
that would put an upward pressure on the currency are becoming
less,” said Gizem Kara, an economist at BNP Paribas SA, by
phone from  London . She predicts two more increases this year,
with the next coming in September.  Inflation Exceeds  Norway’s underlying inflation, which excludes energy costs
and taxes, last month exceeded Norges Bank’s estimate of 0.9
percent, picking up to 1.3 percent in April.  Olsen said the bank didn’t put “too much weight” on the
latest inflation data. Policy makers “were confident” of a
raise and didn’t discuss any other alternatives, he said.  A report earlier this week showed Norwegian credit growth
accelerated to 6.3 percent in March, the highest since July
2009, as consumers take advantage of low borrowing costs.
Surveyed unemployment fell to 3.1 percent in February, the
lowest in 19 months, also helping to fuel spending and demand in
the economy. Registered unemployment was 2.8 percent in April.  The bank, which in 2009 became the first in  Europe  to
tighten policy as the financial crisis eased, has held rates
over the past year in part to limit gains in the krone and help
exporters. The krone this month rose to the highest in 33 months
against the dollar as  oil prices  rallied following unrest in
North Africa and the Middle East.  “Low inflation and a strong krone suggest that the key
policy rate should be kept low,” the bank said in the
statement. “So far, the low interest rate level has not
triggered a substantial increase in household borrowing, but
 house prices  have risen.”  Norway’s mainland economy, which excludes oil, gas and
shipping, will expand 3.25 percent this year and 3.75 percent in
2012 as export demand picks up, the central bank estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  