-- 
Nuclear Operators Must Provide Disaster-Plan Details, Commission Says

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-05-12T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/nuclear-operators-must-provide-disaster-plan-details-commission-says.html
U.S. nuclear regulators are demanding
more details from power companies on plans to cope with the
potential effect of natural disasters or terrorist attacks on
commercial reactors.  The U.S.  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  announced the new
request before a meeting today on the agency’s response to the
crisis at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi complex.
A magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami struck the Japanese plant
on March 11, causing the worst nuclear accident since the 1986
Chernobyl disaster.  The NRC said yesterday the companies must show they can
shut down their reactors safely following “large explosions or
fires.” Plant owners must answer by July 11.  The Fukushima crisis “is one of the most serious nuclear
accidents ever to occur, and will be regarded as a seminal event
in the history of nuclear power,” NRC Chairman  Gregory Jaczko 
said at a conference hosted by reactor owners yesterday.  U.S. nuclear operators were required to revamp their
disaster plans after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks “to
deal with the potential loss of large areas of the plant after
extreme events,” according to the NRC.  The agency, which is in the middle of a 90-day safety
review triggered by the Fukushima disaster, wants to make sure
the plants are meeting those standards, Jaczko said yesterday.
While the agency currently believes existing disaster
regulations are adequate, it may decide tougher rules are
warranted after the Japanese crisis, he said.  Cooling Fuel Rods  The safety review, which began in March, is focused on
whether U.S. nuclear reactors and pools filled with used
radioactive fuel rods can be adequately cooled after a natural
disaster, such as an earthquake or flood. Fuel rods at the
stricken Fukushima plant overheated when electricity to run
temperature-reduction systems was disrupted, causing fires,
explosions and radiation leaks.  The  power lines  and emergency generators that supply
electricity to cooling systems at U.S. plants are under
scrutiny, and the ability of reactors and pools to withstand
extreme forces is being studied, according to an NRC official
who spoke on condition of anonymity because the agency staff
hadn’t yet briefed the five commissioners.  The agency is checking that nuclear-plant owners have
emergency procedures, such as pumping water from fire hoses, to
cool reactors and fuel rods during severe accidents that cause
long-term power loss, according to the official. The NRC is also
examining whether plants should move more radioactive fuel rods
out of storage pools and into dry casks, the official said.  Industry Safety Checks  In safety checks conducted by plant operators on their own
since the Fukushima disaster, some power companies found they
weren’t fully prepared for an aircraft hitting their reactors,
 Nuclear Energy Institute  Chief Executive Officer Marvin Fertel
said May 10.  The inspections were overseen by the Atlanta-based
 Institute of Nuclear Power Operators , an industry-backed safety
group. They detected a few instances where equipment was stored
in the wrong location and workers hadn’t received updated
training, said Fertel, whose Washington-based organization
represents reactor operators.  Those plants are taking corrective actions and the industry
is “well on its way” to providing the information demanded by
the NRC, the NEI said in an e-mail yesterday.  James Ellis, chief executive officer of the Institute of
Nuclear Power Operators, declined to discuss the findings of the
safety group’s inspections.  In a speech to yesterday’s NEI conference, Ellis said the
industry should consider setting up a “robust, highly capable
response team with pre-staged equipment” that can rush to
nuclear emergencies in the U.S. and other countries.  “This is not the time for timidity or creeping
incrementalism,” Ellis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  