-- 
Nvidia Predicts Sales That Exceed Estimates on PC Demand

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-05-13T00:26:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/nvidia-forecasts-sales-that-exceed-analysts-estimates-on-rising-pc-demand.html
Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , a maker of graphics
chips, forecast second-quarter sales that exceeded analysts’
estimates, as a new microprocessor from Intel Corp. helped fuel
demand for more expensive personal computers.  Revenue in the current period will rise 4 percent to
6 percent from the first quarter to as much as $1.02 billion,
 Santa Clara , California-based Nvidia said in a statement. That
compares with an average analyst estimate of $990.4 million,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  Demand for Nvidia’s graphics chips rose as the debut of
Intel’s new processor stimulated demand for new PCs, Chief
Executive Officer Jen-Hsun Huang said in an interview. While
that helped Nvidia sell its chips into high-end machines used by
gamers and those who edit videos, demand is still weak in some
areas of the market, he said.  “The PC marketplace is softish,” Huang said. “However,
there are several segments of opportunities. The tablet is a
factor in some lower parts of the marketplace.”  Nvidia is trying to lessen its dependence on chips used in
PCs with a push into processors for mobile phones and tablet
computers. That business, based on a chip called Tegra, began to
take off this quarter, said Huang.  Moving Into Mobile  “It’s starting to contribute,” said Sujeeva De Silva, an
analyst at ThinkEquity LLC in  San Francisco , who has a “hold”
rating on the stock and doesn’t own it. “Tegra had been
challenged for years to get design wins.”  Net income in the first quarter fell to $135.2 million, or
22 cents a share, from $137.6 million, or 23 cents, a year
earlier, the company said in the statement. Sales in the period
that ended May 1 declined 4 percent to $962 million.  Nvidia fell 61 cents to $19.89 in extended trading after
the report. The company’s shares advanced 63 cents, or 3.2
percent, to $20.50 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. The stock has gained 33 percent this year.  Nvidia’s attempts to move into mobile, with new customers
such as Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., are also aimed at
easing the effects of a drop in sales of chipsets, which help
connect processors to other parts of a PC. New designs by  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  are threatening to make
Nvidia’s chipset business obsolete.  To further its mobile ambitions, Nvidia said this week it
will acquire closely held Icera Inc. for $367 million, adding
radio processors needed in phones and tablets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  