-- 
Obama Says Immigration Reform Is a ‘Moral Imperative’ for U.S.

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-05-12T13:43:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/obama-says-immigration-reform-is-a-moral-imperative-for-u-s-.html
President  Barack Obama  said
comprehensive changes in U.S. immigration laws are a “moral
imperative” as well as a way to improve the economy and
national security.  “We define ourselves as a nation of immigrants, as a
nation that’s open to anyone who’s willing to embrace America’s
precepts, America’s ideals,” Obama said today at a National
Hispanic Prayer Breakfast in  Washington . Improving immigration
laws, he said, is “not only an economic imperative, or a
security imperative -- it’s also a moral imperative.”  The remarks follow Obama’s visit to the U.S.-Mexico border
at El Paso,  Texas , on May 10 as part of a White House campaign
to promote an overhaul of U.S. immigration laws as 2012
elections approach. Obama said the U.S. needs to bring illegal
immigrants out of an underground economy while bolstering border
security.  The president continues the campaign later today as he sits
for interviews at the White House with three Spanish-language
television stations.  In Congress, Senate Democrats are renewing a push for
legislation allowing some younger illegal immigrants to gain
legal status, an appeal to Latino voters with a measure opposed
by Republicans in both houses of Congress.  The so-called Dream Act, blocked in the Senate last year,
would allow people who were brought to the U.S. illegally before
age 16 and who remain for at least five years to gain legal
residency after going to college or serving in the military for
at least two years.  Republican opponents, including Senate Republican  Jeff Sessions  of  Alabama , a member of the Judiciary Committee, says
it provides a form of amnesty to many immigrants who have been
in the U.S. for decades and may offer a safe harbor to some
undocumented immigrants with criminal records.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  