-- 
Obama Says He’s Identified Business Regulations for Elimination

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-05-12T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/obama-says-he-s-identified-business-regulations-for-elimination.html
President  Barack Obama  said his
administration will propose in the next few weeks eliminating a
package of federal rules and regulations to cut the burden on
U.S. businesses.  Cutting unnecessary regulations will help small businesses
particularly and demonstrates the government is responding to
their concerns, Obama said at a town hall-style event in
Washington taped yesterday for  CBS News .  “There are some legitimate complaints about regulations,”
the president said in response to a question from an audience
member. “We’ve got to do more on simplification, reducing
paperwork.”  Obama didn’t disclose how many regulations might be
eliminated or what areas of the economy may be affected. He
cited only one example: reducing the amount of paperwork on
loans arranged through the  Small Business Administration .  Obama in January ordered a review aimed at removing or
overhauling regulations that stifle economic expansion without
helping consumers. The rules were targeted after consultations
with groups such as the  Business Roundtable  and the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce, he said.  The event was recorded yesterday and a portion was set for
broadcast this morning on CBS’s “The Early Show.”  Obama also said “the biggest headwind” facing the economy
is the still-depressed housing market, with foreclosures
unabated and many homeowners finding that their mortgage is
higher than the value of their home.  ‘More Work to Do’  “We’ve got more work to do” in helping struggling
homeowners stay in their homes, he said. The president said the
White House is consulting with Congress on further steps to
strengthen a U.S.-backed home mortgage modification program to
reach more people.  Obama said banks that benefited from federal bailouts
during the recession need to offer more help. The message to
banks, he said, is “you’ve got to be there for the American
people when they’re having a tough time.”  There were 2.2 million homes in foreclosure in March, up
1.4 percent from a month earlier, Lender Processing Services
Inc. in Jacksonville,  Florida , said last month. Almost 587,000
homeowners have permanently lowered their mortgage payments
since the Home Affordable Modification Program, or HAMP, began
in November 2009, according to the Treasury Department.  Budget Negotiations  Addressing the negotiations to cut the nation’s long-term
debt, Obama said the deadlock with congressional Republicans
over taxes may require creating a mechanism he’s proposed for
automatic spending cuts and tax increases  “I think that what we’re going to end up having to do,
probably, is to set some targets” that would trigger deficit-
reducing measures, Obama said. “That will give incentive for us
to negotiate and figure something out.”  Obama outlined such a “failsafe” trigger in a speech on
the budget he gave last month in which he laid out his deficit-
cutting plan. The administration is in the midst of negotiations
with congressional Republicans on trimming the nation’s
cumulative deficit over the next 10 to 12 years.  The president on April 13 proposed $4 trillion in
cumulative deficit reductions over 12 years through a
combination of spending cuts and tax increases, setting the
stage for a fight with congressional Republicans over the
nation’s priorities. Republicans have called for reducing the
deficit through spending cuts and are resisting any move that
would raise taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at  rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  