-- 
Obama Seeking Two-Year Extension of Term for FBI Director Robert Mueller

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-05-12T19:36:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/obama-said-to-seek-extension-of-fbi-director-robert-mueller-s-10-year-term.html
The Obama administration is asking
Congress to extend by two years the term of FBI Director Robert Mueller, who transformed the bureau to fight terrorism.  Mueller, 66, took over a week before Sept. 11, 2001, and
his 10-year term is scheduled to end in September. The Obama
administration had been searching for candidates to replace him
as its approach to interrogating and prosecuting terror suspects
has faced criticism from Republican lawmakers.  President  Barack Obama  said today in a statement that
Mueller set a “gold standard” and that “continuity and
stability” are needed at a time of leadership changes at the
Central Intelligence Agency and Defense Department. Obama called
on lawmakers to extend Mueller’s term “for the sake of our
nation’s safety and security.”  “He has shown extraordinary leadership and effectiveness
at protecting our country,” Obama said.  Congressional approval is needed to extend Mueller’s term.
Originally nominated by President  George W. Bush , he previously
served as a U.S. attorney in  San Francisco  and was an officer in
the Marine Corps.  Mueller has had bipartisan support from lawmakers for
fighting terrorism and thwarting attempted terrorism attacks
within the U.S.  Term Extension  Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa , the top Republican on the
Judiciary Committee, said he is open to a term extension.  “This is an unusual step by the president, and is somewhat
of a risky precedent to set,” Grassley said in a statement.
“I’m open to the president’s idea, but I will need to know more
about his plan to ensure that this is not a more permanent
extension that would undermine the purposes of the term limit.”  Grassley said the limit was imposed to safeguard against
“improper political influence and abuses of the past.”  Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy, a
Vermont Democrat, said in a statement that he supports extending
Mueller’s term.  Congress  limited  the director’s term in 1976, four years
after the death of J. Edgar Hoover, who served as director of
the FBI for 48 years.  Mueller agreed to stay pending congressional approval and
has no additional comment, said Paul Bresson, a bureau
spokesman.  After the Sept. 11 attacks, Mueller shifted agents from
criminal investigations to fighting terrorism. Mueller has been
hiring additional agents to replace those moved to national
security cases, though the bureau still doesn’t have the same
number of criminal investigators as it did before the attacks.  Cost Overruns  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  has faced criticism
during Mueller’s tenure for cost overruns and delays for a new
FBI computer system for managing cases.  Attorney General  Eric Holder  said Mueller earned the
confidence of two presidents “for his ability to lead and his
calmness under fire.”  “The  United States  faces ongoing threats from terrorists
intent on attacking us both at home and abroad, and it is
crucial that the FBI have sustained, strong leadership to
confront that threat,” Holder said in a statement.  Last month, Obama said he is nominating CIA Director Leon Panetta to take over the Pentagon from Defense Secretary  Robert Gates . The president also chose General David Petraeus to lead
the spy agency.  The Obama administration’s approach to interrogating and
prosecuting terrorism suspects has been faulted by Republicans,
led by Senator  Jeff Sessions  of  Alabama . Sessions has said
suspects should be treated as enemy combatants instead of being
tried in criminal courts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Justin Blum in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  