-- 
Obama Adviser to Meet With Members of Libyan Rebel Group

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-05-12T19:42:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/obama-adviser-to-meet-with-members-of-libyan-rebel-group-1-.html
The Obama administration has invited
a delegation from  Libya ’s opposition leadership council to a
meeting at the White House as the rebel group seeks more aid.  Mahmoud Jebril and other representatives from the Libyan
Transitional National Council will meet tomorrow with Tom Donilon, President  Barack Obama ’s national security adviser, the
administration said in a statement.  Jebril, who previously has met with Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton , is on his first visit to Washington as head of
the council that is representing the rebels fighting Muammar Qaddafi’s government.  The opposition group is appealing to administration
officials and lawmakers on  Capitol Hill  to allow access to
frozen Libyan assets to fund their fight and provide
humanitarian assistance.  “We are facing a real crisis,” Jebril said at the
 Brookings Institution  in Washington today. “We are running out
of money.”  Jebril, who met yesterday with Senator  John Kerry , the
Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the  Senate Foreign
Relations  Committee, said the lawmaker is writing legislation to
release funds. A delay of three or four weeks would be too long,
Jebril said.  The opposition council also is seeking formal recognition
from the U.S., Jebril said. Mark Toner, State Department
spokesman, signaled last week that may not happen soon, calling
it “not an end in and of itself.”  U.S. Recognition  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  reinforced that message
today, saying it would be “premature” to recognize Jebril’s
opposition group as the official government of Libya. Carney,
speaking at a daily briefing with reporters, didn’t say whether
Obama would attend Jebril’s meeting with Donilon.  France, Italy and Qatar are among countries that have given
some form of formal recognition to the transitional council.
Others will follow in the “coming days,” Jebril said, without
specifying the countries.  The U.S. has provided $25 million in nonlethal assistance,
drawing on existing Defense Department stocks.  Halal Meals  The State Department’s Toner announced May 10 that the
initial shipment of more than 10,000 halal meals ready-to-eat
was delivered to Benghazi, the opposition’s de facto capital.
Other items are en route, including medical supplies, uniforms,
boots, tents, and personal protective gear, Toner said.  “We continue to work with the TNC to determine what
additional assistance requirements we might be able to support
in the coming weeks,” Toner said in a briefing.  The Obama administration is also looking at ways to
unfreeze some of the approximately $33 billion in Libyan assets
the U.S. has frozen, Toner said.  Jebril is making the rounds in  Washington  as Libyan rebels
made gains in the three-month conflict against Qaddafi’s troops,
advancing on the strategic oil town of Brega along the central
coast after fighters took control of the airport in Misrata.  The rebels control most of eastern Libya and say they are
pushing westward from Misrata, which lies about 180 kilometers
(112 miles) east of Tripoli, the capital. Jet fighters from the
 North Atlantic Treaty Organization  hit Tripoli at least four
times overnight, the  Associated Press  said.  NATO sees its role in Libya continuing in a post-Qaddafi
era as the country seeks to form a sustainable democracy, said
Anders Fogh Rasmussen, the alliance’s secretary-general.  Speaking to an audience at Johns Hopkins University’s Paul
Nitze School of Advanced International Studies in Washington
today, Rasmussen cited NATO’s experience in assisting countries
with military reform.  “It is an essential part of transition to democracy that
the military and security sectors come under democratic
control,” Rasmussen said. “To that end, we need reforms and
this is an area in which NATO could assist.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Rome at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  