-- 
Hochtief Board Members Give Up as Spanish ACS Takes Charge

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-05-12T13:20:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/hochtief-board-members-give-up-as-spanish-acs-takes-charge-1-.html
Four members of  Hochtief AG (HOT) ’s
supervisory board withdrew from seeking re-election as majority
investor Actividades de Construccion & Servicios SA pushed
through a plan to end the German builder’s seven years of
independence.  Supervisory board Chairman Detlev Bremkamp, Hans-Peter Keitel, Heinrich von Pierer, and Wilhelm Simson stepped down as
candidates, the company said in a statement today.  Their resignation means the directors avoid a re-election
battle they were destined to lose. ACS acquired 43.1 percent of
Essen-based Hochtief, giving it an effective majority say in the
appointment of board members at the annual shareholder meeting
today. Attendance was about 69 percent, Bremkamp said.  “We are today carrying Hochtief’s independence to its
grave,” said Marc Tuengler, a representative of shareholder
association DSW.  ACS used a “loophole” in German takeover law to gradually
build its stake, said Herbert Luetkestratkoetter, who resigned
after an address tinged with emotion to those assembled in the
hall. Hochtief has had no majority shareholder since German
utility RWE AG sold its controlling stake in 2004. ACS today
said it expects to reach 50 percent by the end of June.  Reluctant Resignation  Luetkestratkoetter did not want to resign and was asked to
do so by ACS, which was not interested in a compromise over
increasing its candidates, Bremkamp said. The CEO’s address was
met with a standing ovation from board members and shareholders
alike.  ACS, based in  Madrid , had proposed its own candidates for
the board on May 8, which would raise the number of its
representatives to four from two, while the four current members
had said they would run for re-election. ACS’s proposal was
“not balanced” and ACS was “not interested in a compromise,”
Bremkamp said.  “ACS acted hostile from the beginning until today,” said
Tuengler. “That isn’t proper behavior. Come out of your hiding
and tell us your plans for Hochtief,” Tuengler asked the
representatives of ACS on Hochtief’s supervisory board.  In addition to Luetkestratkoetter, Hochtief’s Peter Noe,
concessions head, and Burkhard Lohr, chief financial officer,
are also leaving, meaning Hochtief loses three out of five
members of its management board. Board member Frank Stieler will
take over as CEO.  Argument Is Over  “This meeting is not the place to continue an argument
that is already over,” Peter Erbacher, a lawyer at Linklaters
in Frankfurt representing ACS, said. Erbacher said he disagreed
with Bremkamp’s description of ACS’s behaviour, without
providing details.  Hochtief today said pretax profit will fall to “about
half” the level of 2010, when the builder earned 756.6 million
euros ($1.1 billion). Hochtief had to scrap its forecast for
2011 after its Australian unit  Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI)  reduced
its expectations for the current fiscal year, causing Hochtief
shares to fall the most in two years on April 11.  “This may be the worst day in Hochtief’s history,” said
Heidi Demke of  Germany ’s SdK association of shareholders.
“Hochtief is heading for a new age, an uncertain one.” Demke
said she fears ACS may cut jobs and break up Hochtief.  Over the last five years, Hochtief has earned an average of
almost three-quarters of its pretax profit from the Asia-Pacific
region, where Leighton is the main contributor. Demke said
Hochtief had become too dependent on Leighton over the years and
should have judged the current situation at its Australian unit
better.  Hochtief fell 0.8 percent to 62.03 euros at 2:10 p.m. in
 Frankfurt  trading.  “There is only one reason this is happening today: the
share price was too low,” DSW’s Tuengler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  