-- 
Oil, Agriculture ETFs Lure Biggest Investments Amid Sell-Off

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-05-12T20:12:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/oil-agriculture-etfs-attract-biggest-investments-amid-commodity-sell-off.html
The U.S. Oil Fund and Market Vectors
Agribusiness ETF attracted more money than any other U.S.
exchange-traded fund in the past week following the biggest
retreat in commodity prices in more than two years.  The ETF that tracks the price of oil drew $514.4 million in
the past week, according to data from New York-based research
firm XTF Inc. The agriculture fund, which tracks the share
prices of 46 companies such as  Deere & Co. (DE)  and  Syngenta AG (SYNN) , got
$500.9 million, the data show.  Investors “are not yet willing to give up on the weak
dollar and inflation trade,” said Nicholas Colas, the New York-
based chief market strategist at BNY ConvergEx Group LLC. “They
are cycling into agriculture and energy-oriented investments,
even though the price action is choppy.”  Crude oil fell 15 percent last week following the death of
al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden. It rose 6.9 percent the first
two days this week on concern about flooding in the midwestern
U.S., before declining 5.5 percent yesterday when an Energy
Department report showed that U.S. supplies surged and fuel
demand slipped. Corn has gained 77 percent in the past year on
record use by ethanol producers, while wheat has advanced 49
percent after drought slashed output in  Russia .  The oil ETF, which tracks the price of crude, fell 0.2
percent to $39.28 as of 4 p.m. in New York. The agricultural
fund dropped 1.6 percent to $52.74.  Short Selling  Some investors may be creating new shares of the funds in
order to short the commodities, according to  Dave Lutz , head of
ETF trading and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore.  Short interest in the agricultural ETF rose to 2.8 percent
of shares outstanding as of May 10, from 0.5 percent on April
25, according to Data Explorers, a New York-based research
provider. That’s the highest level since March 24. For the oil
fund, short interest ranged between 8 percent and 12.5 percent
from April 25 through May 10 and averaged 9.2 percent over that
time, Data Explorers said.  “Investors are hedging at lower prices after the big
commodity sell-off we had,” Lutz said in a telephone interview
yesterday. He said it’s possible that much of the inflow could
be from investors betting on declines, because “even if you’re
shorting an ETF, the ETF still needs to be created, that
increases assets under management.”  Lutz said that while oil may continue to decline on
increasing U.S. supply, investors may be piling into the
agriculture ETF as they bet on long-term demand for food
commodities and perceive the sell-off as a buying opportunity.  Assets in commodity exchange-traded products and funds rose
to $220.7 billion in April from $200.3 billion at the end of
March, BlackRock Inc. said in an e-mailed report yesterday. ETFs
trade on an exchange throughout the day like stocks. Large buy
orders are made through authorized agents who purchase blocks of
the underlying holdings and trade them with the fund to create
new shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  