-- 
Olam Considers New Zealand Dairy Unit Exit, Boosts Profit

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-05-12T12:38:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/olam-third-quarter-profit-rises-43-on-volumes-margin-1-.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , a supplier
of food commodities, said it may exit dairy processing in  New
Zealand  as an increase in milk prices by a supplier is likely to
lead to losses and temper earnings from other businesses.  The Open Country Dairy Ltd. unit is likely to report a
full-year loss after Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. raised its
milk sales price, making the business “not viable,” Olam Chief
Executive Officer Sunny Verghese said today at a briefing in
Singapore. Should a probe by New Zealand’s government support
Fonterra, “we will want to exit,” he said, referring to a
government review of prices sought by Open Country.  Auckland-based Fonterra procures milk from farmers for re-
sale to processors including Open Country, which makes cheeses,
fats, and powdered milk. A “surprisingly high” price announced
by Fonterra for 2011 has eroded the profits of dairy-processing
companies, Olam said.  The fortunes of Open Country Dairy contrast with those of
the parent, which posted a 43 percent increase in third-quarter
profit today. Net income in the three months ended March 31 was
S$127.3 million ($103 million), Singapore-based Olam said today
in a statement. Revenue surged 75 percent to S$4.74 billion on a
24 percent jump in commodity sales volumes.  ‘Strongest Growth’  Net contribution per ton, or revenue after cost of sales,
shipping and logistics expenses, claims, commission, bank
charges and net interest, increased 44 percent to S$132.2
million in the nine months ending March 31, Olam said.  “This is one of the strongest periods of growth in net
contributions per ton that we have achieved in the last five
years,” Olam Chief Financial Officer Krishnan Ravikumar said in
the statement.  Olam, backed by Temasek Holdings Pte, fell 2.8 percent to
S$2.81 at the close of trade today in  Singapore . The results
were announced after the market closed.  Olam, one of the world’s top three suppliers of rice, cocoa
and coffee, is expanding into sugar milling and urea plants in
 Africa  and dairy farming in  Latin America . The company aims to
transform itself from a trading house to one with production
assets to earn bigger margins. Olam plans to move into farming
of cashew, spices, dehydrates, grains and sugar by 2015.  The supplier is bullish on coffee, where the global supply-
demand balance is “deteriorating,” and neutral on  palm oil  due
to an excess supply of soybeans, Verghese said today in an
interview on the sidelines of the briefing in Singapore.  Cotton Prices  Olam is also “neutral” on the price outlook of cotton
after growers planted more of the crop in response to the record
prices, Verghese said. The potential for a drought in  Texas  may
change the supply outlook, he said.  The basket of commodities, including rice, sugar, cocoa and
cotton, jumped 52 percent in value from July 1, 2010, to March
31, the company said. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture
Index of eight futures jumped 69 percent in the same period,
Olam said. Olam hedged 88 percent of its inventories, it said.  Separately, all its operations in the  Ivory Coast  have
resumed and it shipped its first load of cocoa to the U.S. at
the start of May, Olam said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Glenys Sim at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  