-- 
Hong Kong Land Sale Beats Estimates, Showing Strength as Economy Expands

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-05-13T08:45:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/hong-kong-sells-luxury-residential-site-at-close-to-top-of-the-price-range.html
Hong Kong’s government sold three
residential sites above analyst estimates, highlighting
developers’ confidence that property curbs haven’t damped demand
and the economy expanded in the first quarter.  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16)  bought a site on Stubbs Road
close to the Peak luxury housing district on  Hong Kong Island 
for HK$4.49 billion ($578 million) yesterday, equivalent to
HK$24,829 per buildable square foot, according to calculations
by Centaline Property Agency Ltd. It was expected to be sold for
almost HK$4.4 billion, the median estimate of five surveyors and
analysts polled by Bloomberg News.  Government measures to cool surging real estate prices are
unlikely to dent appetite for luxury apartments in locations
where fewer plots are available for sale, said Eva Lee, a
property analyst at Macquarie Securities Ltd. Hong Kong’s
economy grew more than 7 percent in the first quarter,
sustaining an expansion that faces the threats of accelerating
inflation and a property-market bubble.  “Developers are still very confident about their abilities
to sell homes at prices at or above their current prices in a
couple years’ time,” said Vincent Cheung, national director for
valuation and advisory at Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  Estimates for the Stubbs Road site, with a buildable area
of 180,835 square feet, ranged from HK$3.6 billion to HK$4.5
billion, with the median translating to HK$24,000 a square foot.  Sun Hung Kai, the world’s biggest developer by market
value, plans to invest HK$8 billion in the project, Victor Lui,
an executive director at its property agency unit, said in an
interview yesterday.  More Sites  China  Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. bid HK$579 million
for a site in the Kowloon Tong area, beating the HK$500 million
median estimate.  Cheung Kong  (Holdings) Ltd., controlled by Hong
Kong’s richest man  Li Ka-shing , paid HK$662 million, 60 percent
above the HK$410 million median, for a piece of land in the Yuen
Long district.  China Overseas, the Hong Kong-listed developer controlled
by the nation’s construction ministry, will spend about HK$850
million building houses on the site, Tony Yau, general manager
for the company’s Hong Kong operation, told reporters after the
auction. The company estimates the units will be sold at about
HK$26,000 a square foot, Yau said.  The government in November increased property transaction
taxes and pledged to boost land supply amid public protests that
prices are becoming unaffordable and as the central bank warned
about the risk of a “credit-fueled property bubble.”  Economic Growth  The city’s first-quarter gross domestic product increased
7.2 percent, the government said on its website today, exceeding
the 5.5 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 17
economists.  Financial Secretary John Tsang said this week that the
government is aiming to cool the real-estate market and restrain
excessive credit growth.  Housing prices in the city, ranked the world’s most
expensive place to buy a home by Savills Plc, gained more than
55 percent in the past two years on record-low  mortgage rates 
and an influx of buyers from China.  The auction results come as home sales dropped to the
lowest volume in more than two years in April and some
developers have cut prices of new apartments since the end of
last month.  Hong Kong’s home prices fell 0.2 percent in the seven days
ended May 8 from a week earlier, according to Centaline. The
Centa-City Leading Index, an indicator of housing prices in the
city, dropped to 97.45, it said in an e-mailed release today.  Property Stocks Rise  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks seven of the
city’s biggest developers, rose 1.2 percent at the close in Hong
Kong, paring its loss this year to 3.7 percent, compared with
the benchmark  Hang Seng Index ’s 1.1 percent gain.  The Stubbs Road and Kowloon Tong parcels “reflect the
market still has strong demand for luxury properties in the
city,” said  James Cheung , a surveyor at Centaline, Hong Kong’s
biggest closely held realtor.  The average price of apartments in the Stubbs Road area,
which lies below the east of the Peak district and consists
mainly of buildings more than 30 years old and with some
overlooking the Happy Valley race course, is now about HK$18,000
a square foot, Cheung said.  “High-end properties always have better holding value in
the long run,” said Macquarie’s Lee in an interview at a
conference in Hong Kong yesterday before the auction. “A site
this size hasn’t been available in this area for a long time,
and I doubt if there’ll be another one in the near future.”  The three sites sold yesterday are among the nine the
government plans to sell through auction or tender in the second
quarter.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Kelvin Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  