-- 
TOP Oil Market News: Crude Falls; IEA Cuts 2011 Demand Forecast

-- B y   J o h n   B u c k l e y
-- 
2011-05-12T11:54:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/top-oil-market-news-crude-falls-iea-cuts-2011-demand-forecast.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Crude Oil Declines After IEA Cuts 2011 Demand Forecast on Prices  Oil declined in  New York  after the International Energy
Agency trimmed its 2011 global oil demand forecast for the first
time as this year’s price rally begins to weigh on consumption.  TOP OIL MARKET NEWS  IEA Cuts 2011 Oil Demand Forecast for First Time on Prices (1)  The International Energy Agency trimmed its 2011 global oil
demand forecast for the first time as this year’s price rally
begins to weigh on consumers.  High Gasoline Prices Will Reduce U.S. Demand This Year, IEA Says  Demand for gasoline in the U.S. will drop this year as high
prices at the pump compel motorists to drive less during the
typical peak summer months, according to the  International
Energy Agency .  West African Oil Rally Threatens Indian Growth: Energy Markets  The highest prices for West African crude in more than two
years are threatening to dent economic growth in  India  while
boosting revenue for suppliers in Nigeria and  Angola .  OPEC  Saudis to Sustain Spare Capacity of at Least 1.5 Million Barrels  Saudi Arabia will sustain excess production capacity of 1.5
million to 2 million barrels a day “at all times to ensure
supply security,” the kingdom’s OPEC governor said.  ‘Sustainable’ Oil Price Is $70 to $80, Saudi OPEC Governor Says  Saudi Arabia’s governor to OPEC refuted forecasts that the
world is running out of oil and said the “sustainable” long-
term price is $70 to $80 a barrel.  Saudi Governor to OPEC Refutes Forecasts of Dwindling Oil Supply  Saudi Arabia ’s governor to OPEC refuted forecasts that the
world is running out of oil.  OPEC Compliance With Production Quotas Rose to 69% in April  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’
compliance with record supply cuts set in 2008 rose last month
as output dropped in Libya, Saudi Arabia and Angola.  IEA Says Non-OPEC Oil More Reliable as Output Tops Expectations  Growth estimates for non-OPEC oil supply have been
consistently revised upward as output exceeds expectations,
prompting the International Energy Agency to reappraise its
forecasts.  REFINERIES
Map global refinery outages  Repsol to Start Boiler at Bilbao Refinery in Spain, to Halt CG1  Repsol YPF SA, Spain’s biggest oil company, planned to
start a boiler at its Petronor refinery in Bilbao,  Spain , while
stopping a cogeneration plant.  Louisiana,  Mississippi  Governors Urge People to Ready for Flood  Residents of Louisiana and Mississippi should be ready for
flooding along tributaries, bayous and spillways as the swollen
 Mississippi River  pushes record amounts of water south to the
 Gulf of Mexico , the states’ governors said.  China  Fuel Price Increase ‘Unlikely to Help’ Refiners, IEA Says  China’s move to increase fuel prices is insufficient to
help the country’s refiners as international levels outpace what
consumers are paying in the second-largest oil user, the
International Energy Agency said.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Second Cargo Dropped From June North Sea Forties Oil Program  A second cargo of benchmark North Sea Forties crude, for
June 29 to July 1 loading, was dropped from the export program,
according to a revised shipping schedule obtained by Bloomberg
News.  Tasweeq Offers 3.6 Million Barrels of July Al-Shaheen  Crude Oil   Qatar International Petroleum Marketing Co., known as
Tasweeq, offered to sell 3.6 million barrels of Al-Shaheen crude
for loading in July, said two traders who received the tender
documents. That’s the same amount that the company offered for
June.  Oil Product Shipping Costs to  Japan  Are Unchanged  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline,  jet fuel  or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
Japan was unchanged at 9.30 U.S. cents yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Tepco Says Fuel Rods at Fukushima Reactor Are Fully Exposed (2)  Tokyo Electric Power Co. said fuel rods are fully exposed
in the No. 1 reactor at its stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant, setting back the utility’s plan to resolve the crisis.  Repsol First-Quarter Profit Beats Expectations on Oil Prices (1)  Repsol YPF SA, Spain’s biggest oil company, said first-
quarter profit rose 29 percent, beating analyst estimates, after
crude prices climbed and earnings increased at its liquefied
natural gas unit.  Dana Gas Owed $300 Million for Output From  Egypt ,  Iraq  (3)  Dana Gas PJSC is owed about $300 million for oil and
natural gas that it pumped in Egypt and in the semi-autonomous
Kurdish region of Iraq.  PTT Profit Revenue in 2011 to Exceed Last Year, Prasert Says  PTT Pcl’s revenue and profit will be higher this year than
in 2010 because of higher crude oil and petrochemical prices and
increased capacity, Chief Executive Officer Prasert Bunsumpun
said.  Nuclear Operators Must Provide Disaster-Plan Details, NRC Says  U.S. nuclear regulators are demanding more details from
power companies on plans to cope with the potential effect of
natural disasters or terrorist attacks on commercial reactors.  Glencore Said to Get Double Orders Sought in $11 Billion IPO (1)  Glencore International Plc received enough demand from
investors for its $11 billion initial public offering to sell
the shares more than twice over, according to three people with
knowledge of the matter.  China’s Nuclear Safety Review Impact ‘Small,’ Official Says (1)  China’s safety review of its atomic  power plants  will have
little impact on expansion and achieving nuclear generation
capacity of 70 to 80 gigawatts by 2020 is “still achievable,”
an industry group official said.  Greenland Bets on Oil, Metals, Cows as Way to Independence (1)  Greenland is betting a two-year commodity-price boom will
bring it closer to ending almost three centuries of Danish
colonial rule.  Cairn May Start Greenland Operations This Month After Approval  Cairn Energy Plc, the Scottish oil explorer that’s drilling
the most wells in Greenland in more than 30 years, may start
operations this month after receiving approval from the island’s
authorities.  OTHER MARKETS  Stocks, Commodities Fall on Economic Concern; U.S. Futures Drop  Stocks fell for a second day and commodities extended
declines as investors scaled back bets on economic growth and
China tightened bank lending. U.S. index futures dropped after
Cisco Systems Inc.’s profit forecast trailed analyst estimates.  Dollar Advances Against Major Peers as Commodities, Stocks Drop  The dollar strengthened against the majority of its most
actively traded peers as commodity prices and stocks slumped.  Libya  Rebels Advance on Oil Town of Brega After Misrata Victory  Libyan rebels are making gains in the three-month conflict
against  Muammar Qaddafi ’s troops, advancing on the strategic oil
town of Brega along the central coast after fighters in the east
took the airport in Misrata.  SPORTS  Heat Defeat Celtics to Clinch NBA Playoff Series, Thunder Win  The  Miami Heat  scored 16 unanswered points at the end of
the fourth quarter to beat the Boston Celtics 97-87 and clinch
their National Basketball Association playoff series.  Astros May Be Sold to Crane Next Week, Houston Chronicle Says  The  Houston Astros  may be sold as early as next week to a
group headed by Jim Crane, the Houston Chronicle reported,
citing two unidentified people familiar with the negotiations.  ENERGY PRICES  Last     Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----    ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       96.07   -2.14  -2.2  Nymex     June
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    110.77   -1.80  -1.6    Ice      May
Gasoil ($/Ton)         904.25  -32.25  -3.4    Ice     June
Gasoline (c/Gal)       307.76   -4.52  -1.4  Nymex     June
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    4.11   -0.07  -1.7  Nymex     June
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    110.79   -1.80  -1.6    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            286.49   -3.34  -1.2  Nymex     June  Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            75.55  +0.3
Gold ($/Oz)          1,501.40  -1.0
MSCI World Index     1,344.56  -0.9  Prices as of 12 p.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss in London at   sev@bloomberg.net  