-- 
Morgan Stanley’s Wang Says Inflation Remains China’s Priority

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-12T11:24:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/morgan-stanley-s-wang-says-inflation-remains-china-s-priority.html
Wang Qing , Morgan Stanley’s chief
 China  economist in  Hong Kong , comments on the People’s Bank of
China’s announcement today that it will raise banks’ reserve
requirement ratios by 50 basis points effective May 18.  On the reasons for the increase:  “Inflation pressure remains strong so there is a need for
a policy move that can signal the central bank’s determination
to control inflation and the reserve ratio is a high profile
policy move for this purpose.  “The pattern of increases in the reserve requirement ratio
is once a month and that will most likely continue as long as
inflation remains elevated.  “Inflation may rebound in May and June and that would be a
good time for the PBOC to raise  interest rates , which would be
an even stronger signal of its determination.”  Wang estimates at least one more interest-rate increase in
the first half of this year.  On whether the central bank is concerned about a pickup in
lending:  “If you look at the lending trend, it’s on track to reach
the target amount for the year of 7 trillion yuan to 7.5
trillion yuan. So this has less to do with bank lending and more
to do with the need to make a policy move to signal
determination to control inflation.”  Wang forecasts inflation will average 4.5 percent this year
compared with the government’s target of 4 percent.  “There is an upside risk to our forecast which we made at
the beginning of the year as commodity prices have registered a
much more pronounced increase than we envisaged.”  On the outlook for growth amid government tightening:  “When you tighten, the economy will slow down for sure and
the authorities are prepared for this.  “The slowdown we’ve seen so far doesn’t indicate there is
a risk of a hard landing, that’s why the policy priority at the
moment is still to control inflation as we can see from the
statement issued at the end of the Strategic and Economic
Dialogue” between U.S. and Chinese officials in  Washington  this
week.  “We don’t think this is overtightening and clearly the
government doesn’t think so. Controlling inflation will
definitely entail a slowdown in growth and the authorities
understand that.”  --Nerys Avery in Beijing. Editor:  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg news staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7558 or
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  