-- 
Morgan Crucible Seeks Removal From Lawsuit Over Graphite Cartel

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-12T13:29:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/morgan-crucible-seeks-removal-from-lawsuit-over-graphite-cartel.html
Morgan Crucible Co., the maker of
carbon materials for medical and transportation equipment, told
a U.K. court that Deutsche Bahn AG and 30 other European rail
companies waited too long to sue over a defunct graphite cartel.  The deadline for including Morgan Crucible in the lawsuit,
which seeks as much as 129 million pounds ($209.5 million),
expired sooner than for other cartel members because it
didn’t join their challenge to an earlier European Union fine,
the company’s lawyers said today at the  Competition Appeal
Tribunal  in  London . The railway companies rejected the argument,
saying all of the cartel members are jointly liable for losses.  “It’s clear that liability is joint” and losses “can be
recovered from any of the cartelists,” the group’s lawyer, Jon
Turner of Monckton Chambers in London, said at the hearing.
Morgan Crucible’s “participation sustained the cartel,” he
said.  The price-fixing, which lasted from 1988 to 1999, caused
customers to pay too much for graphite-based goods used for
transferring electricity in train motors, the rail companies
have claimed. While Windsor, England-based Morgan Crucible won
immunity from EU fines by being the first to cooperate, its
former Chief Executive Officer Ian Norris was sentenced to 18
months in prison in a parallel U.S. case.  European Union regulators in 2003 levied fines totalling
101 million euros against four of the cartel’s five members,  SGL
Carbon SE (SGL) ,  France ’s Carbone Lorraine SA,  Austria ’s Hoffmann &
Co. and Schunk GmbH. The railway companies’ lawyers have said
the case, filed in December, may be the most significant
claim of its kind in  Europe .  Other customers in the U.K. case include Italian train
operator Trenitalia SpA, the Dutch railway company  Nederlandse
Spoorwegen  and the Portuguese state railway CP-Comboios de
Portugal EPE. The London-based train leasing company  Angel
Trains Ltd.  withdrew from the case without saying why.  The case is Deutsche Bahn AG & Others v. Morgan Crucible
Co. & Others, 1173/5/7/10, Competition Appeal Tribunal (London).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 