-- 
Mortgage-Bond Investors to Send Letters on H&R Block Loans

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-05-12T16:43:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/mortgage-bond-investors-to-send-letters-on-h-r-block-loans-1-.html
A lawyer representing mortgage-
securities investors said they will send letters to a servicer
and four bond trustees asking them to seek repurchases of loans
made by  H&R Block Inc. (HRB) ’s Option One Mortgage Corp.  The investors plan to inform American Home Mortgage
Servicing Inc. they want settlement negotiations with Option One
to begin on individual deals once the bondholder group holds 25
percent of a transaction, Dallas-based lawyer Talcott Franklin
said today on a conference call.  Three investors that have hired Franklin this week began
seeking to rally members of his firm’s RMBS Investors Clearing
House to push for repurchases of mortgages that failed to meet
Option One’s contractual promises about their quality. H&R Block
may face a maximum liability of $12.8 billion from mortgage
repurchases, RBS Securities Inc. analysts estimated in an
October report, based on data about delinquency and loss rates
on its loans.  “It is possible as with any case that legitimate demands
for recovery could exceed available funds,” Franklin said.
“However, sources of recovery may exist beyond Option One,”
including insurers, mortgage guarantors and its parent, he said.  Members of the clearing house, which permits investors to
organize without disclosing their holdings to each other, own
more than half of the $1.3 trillion of U.S. home-loan securities
without government backing, including 25 percent of 64 deals
with Option One loans, Franklin said May 9.  Publicly Disclose  Gene King, a spokesman for  Kansas City , Missouri-based tax
preparer H&R Block, and Philippa Brown, a spokeswoman for
Irving, Texas-based American Home, declined to immediately
comment.  If Option One agrees to settlement negotiations, the
servicer should say that publicly so investors “may form a
bondholder committee to advise the servicer and the trustee on
the sufficiency and form of any settlement,” Franklin said
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  