-- 
Lotus Starts Wave of New Sports Cars With Malibu-Rocking Evora

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-05-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/lotus-64-000-evora-welcomes-elves-evokes-hummingbirds-jason-h-harper.html
City of Malibu, may I introduce the
 Lotus Evora . Evora, meet Malibu, which, among its many charms,
has miles of magnificent mountain roads curling above the
Pacific. The kind of roads you were designed for. Kismet!  The result of this automotive harmony? I’m hurling the
sprightly, two-door sports car up a windy section of tight
asphalt, the steering wheel dancing in my hands like a living
thing. Third gear bounces off the engine’s rev limiter as I rage
through an L-shaped corner.  I love the smell of burning rubber in the morning.  Lotus does  sports cars . Tiny ones. If BMW has veered into
heavyweight territory with oddball fast rides like the X6 M
crossover, Lotus has stayed true to making two-door
welterweights.  The scrappy British company got its start racing in the
1950s and has seen its share of business ebbs and flows. There
are storied models like the 1960s Elan and the 1970s Esprit,
which made a guest appearance as a submarine in James Bond’s
“The Spy Who Loved Me.”  As of late, the only two model choices were the two-seat
Exige and Elise. To say they are driver’s cars is not simply a
euphemism: Passengers larger than  Kate Moss  will be constricted.
Additional storage space is best suited to postage stamps. Two
more fun cars you will not find, however.  The $64,000 Evora is the first of many promised new models,
each with more room. These include the return of the Esprit in
2013, the Elite, and eventually a four-door called the Eterne.  Elf Seats  In the meantime you can purchase the Evora, which has room
for four -- sort of. There is a space behind the driver that can
be optioned with seatbelts and what one might call sub-seats,
which might accommodate  Keebler elves . Otherwise, you can opt
for a shelf that fits a backpack nicely.  The reason for this scrunching is both a function of the
car’s dimensions and overall engineering. The 3.5-liter V-6
engine is situated behind the cockpit rather than inside the
hood. This leaves the car perfectly balanced, like a well-made
chef’s knife. It changes directions effortlessly, dicing and
mincing pavement.  The downside is that the mechanical components take up the
space where you’d normally fit a backseat. The Evora also has
what might be charitably called a small trunk. So you can bring
your whole stamp collection.  No question that it’s a first cousin to the Exige and
Elise, with the same quirky nose and stance. The rear windshield
folds into an up-raked spoiler and a deep fold in the bottom
rocker gives the side view drama. Random air intakes and outlets
along the body make it even more toylike.  I wouldn’t call it classy; just fun.  Humming Bird  My test car is an eye-searing yellow and doesn’t include
the optional back seats. The roof is only as high as the door
handle of the average SUV, and motoring around heavy traffic can
be intimidating. You’re a hummingbird darting among flocks of
geese. (No wonder the paint job is so bright -- it’s a safety
feature.)  It feels like you’re almost sitting on the ground, and any
hard jounces travel straight through the lightly cushioned seats
and into your spinal column. Comfort and practicality are not
key in Lotus’s world. Performance is.  The engine is actually sourced from Toyota, with 276
horsepower and 258 pound feet of torque. Modest by today’s
standards. Top speed: Only 162 mph. Zero to 60 in 4.9 seconds.
(A more powerful “S” version will be available with 345 hp.)  But get on those narrow Malibu roads (which lead to not-
inexpensive mansions with killer ocean views) and the Lotus will
spank an expensive, high-horsepower sports car. It’s light and
easy to maneuver.  Falling Rocks  Occasionally I sweep around a corner to find a large rock
has tumbled into the road from a cliff above. A quick twitch of
the wheel is all that’s needed to sidestep such obstacles. Throw
on the brakes and the front and rear rotors pull you from 60 mph
to a stop in a mere 100 feet.  After driving up from  West Hollywood  and gunning around for
a full day, I still only burned through half a tank of gas. That
modest engine gets 18 city, 27 highway.  My test car has the optional sport, technology and premium
packages. It has heated seats, a leather interior, cross-drilled
brakes, a titanium tailpipe, and an Alpine touch-screen
navigation system. Total cost, including $1,175 delivery charge,
is $75,920.  At first glance it looks pretty snazzy, but by the end of
the day I found that sun glare often obscured the dials, the
buttons could be finicky, and the navigation system had frozen -
- insisting that I was still on the Pacific Coast Highway even
as I pulled into my hotel.  None of which bothers me a whit. As dusk falls I pull onto
a narrow lookout point high above bustling Highway 1. The sea
seems to be swallowing the sun and a full moon stands in stark
relief above.  My roadside seat sure isn’t big, but it’s the best perch I
can imagine.  The 2011 Lotus Evora at a Glance  Engine: 3.5-liter V-6 with 276 horsepower and 258 pound-  feet of torque.  Transmission: Six-speed manual.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 4.9 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 18 city; 27 highway.  Price as tested: $75,920.  Best feature: The brilliant handling.  Worst feature: Let’s be honest: Those back seats won’t fit  anybody happily.  Target buyer: The driver who prefers the long and winding  road.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 