-- 
Louisiana Prepares to Tackle Mississippi River Flooding on Two Waterways

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-05-12T21:45:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/louisiana-prepares-to-tackle-mississippi-river-flooding-on-two-waterways.html
As  Mississippi  wages a battle against
rising river waters along its border with  Arkansas , Louisiana is
preparing for fights on two major waterways.  A bulge of water rolling south down the  Mississippi River 
drove the crest in  Memphis  to 47.87 feet, just under the record
48.7 feet set in 1937, and threatens to set more high-water
marks before the flow splits in Louisiana, with 70 percent
remaining in its channel and 30 percent running down the
Atchafalaya River.  As the Mississippi River Commission comes closer to a
decision on opening the  Morganza spillway  and boosting the
Mississippi’s flow into the Atchafalaya basin, cities and towns
on both waterways are preparing for flooding.  “We’re not waiting for that,” Governor Bobby Jindal said
today. “We’re telling our people to prepare for the worst.”  Rising Mississippi waters also threaten operations at 10
 Louisiana  refineries that account for about 14 percent of U.S.
operating capacity.  Flooding may affect 2,264  oil wells  producing about 19,000
barrels a day, about 10 percent of Louisiana’s total, said Matt
Ross, communications director for the Louisiana Oil and Gas
Association. He said about 150 companies operate in the four-
parish area in or near the spillway zone.  As much as 252.6 million cubic feet a day of gas may be
threatened, Anna Dearmon, a spokeswoman for the Louisiana
Department of Natural Resources, said in an e-mail.  Baton Rouge Prepares  City workers in Baton Rouge, Louisiana’s capital, have
placed two miles of orange tubing filled with water on top of an
earth and concrete levee to raise it above the expected record
47.5-foot (14-meter) crest the  National Weather Service  says may
arrive by May 22.  “It’s been a grueling two-and-a-half to three weeks for
us,” Mayor Melvin “Kip” Holdren said to a crowd of more than
200 at a public meeting today. “If there is a breach in the
levee, we’re going to have some problems.”  In Melville, Louisiana, about 41 miles (66 kilometers)
northwest of  Baton Rouge , residents lined the banks of the
Atchafalaya to watch its rising water rush under a seven-span
lift bridge that carries Union Pacific Corp. trains.  “It looks like it is coming to get us,” said Gerry
Krasgrow, who grew up in the town. “It’s like a monster coming
down the river.”  Rivers Join  For weeks, the Mississippi and Ohio rivers, swollen by
heavy rain and melted snow, have been inundating cities and
towns, flooding croplands and disrupting shipping. The Ohio rose
to 61.72 feet, a record in Cairo,  Illinois , before joining the
Mississippi there.  The threat of that flood reaching Baton Rouge and  New
Orleans  has the  Mississippi River Commission  considering opening
the 125 gates of the Morganza Floodway. Built in 1954, the
floodway would release 600,000 cubic feet of water per second
into central Louisiana and the Atchafalaya River, taking
pressure off the Mississippi and the cities downstream,
according to the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers.  The decision will be made if the flow at Louisiana’s  Red
River Landing  north of Baton Rouge reaches 1.5 million cubic
feet per second, said Ricky Boyette, a corps spokesman. The flow
was at 1.46 cubic feet per second today.  Jindal said at a press conference today that the decision
could come as early as the day after tomorrow.  ‘Comfort’ to City  “We think it would give us a great deal of comfort it they
open that,” said William Daniel, interim director of Baton
Rouge’s department of public works.  The Corps of Engineers already opened the Bonnet Carre
Spillway upstream from New Orleans to siphon Mississippi water
into  Lake Pontchartrain .  “This is the biggest train wreck in the history of
Louisiana, but it’s the slowest train wreck in the history of
Louisiana,” said Ryan Heck, who sells pumps for Hertz Service
Pump & Compressor in Baton Rouge.  Before the high water hits Louisiana, it has to travel past
Mississippi, where officials are most concerned about tributary
flooding in the fertile Delta region in the northwestern corner
of the state, Governor  Haley Barbour  said yesterday in a press
conference.  Casinos Closed  In Vicksburg, Mississippi, workers at the Rainbow Casino
Hotel stacked sandbags to shield it from the river, while 7 feet
of water washed into the entrance to Caesars Entertainment
Corp.’s Harrah’s Tunica, Mississippi’s largest casino.  The flood has shut 17 of Mississippi’s 19 river-based
casinos in the U.S.’s third-largest gaming-employment market,
jeopardizing thousands of jobs and $13 million a month in taxes.
Flooding will slow the state’s recovery from a recession two
years ago, already lagging behind the U.S., said Sohini
Chowdhury, an economist with Moody’s Analytics in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania .  “There is no doubt that the casino closures will weigh on
the state’s recovery,” Chowdhury said. “A month of inactivity
would deprive the already cash-strapped local and state
governments of critical funds.”  As many as 3,900 people may be affected by flooding in
northern Louisiana, above the spillway, Jindal said at a press
conference yesterday. A century-old secondary levee in
northeastern Louisiana was overrun by water for the first time,
threatening 10,000 acres of farmland, the  Monroe News Star 
reported today.  Protecting Levees  Opening the Morganza probably will mean the river won’t
rise as high as forecast in Baton Rouge, although it may only be
a foot lower, said Bryan Harmon, deputy director of the public
works department. The river is expected to crest at 19.5 feet in
 New Orleans , which is protected by levees to 20 feet, unless the
spillway is used, according to the Corps of Engineers.  Harmon said he favors anything to help Baton Rouge’s levee.  “A catastrophic failure would impact 100,000 people,”
Harmon said.  As a line of last defense, Harmon said the city was keeping
all its sandbags and wouldn’t give any to the public. If the
levee fails, building a sandbag ring around a house won’t help,
he said.  Dikes and sandbags are going up around towns and homes in
the spillway area. Jindal said opening the spillway could  flood
3 million acres  in south Louisiana.  Krasgrow and neighbor Darrell Porche said they wouldn’t
evacuate Melville, even though both thought the river would rise
high enough to push on the earth levee that protects it. Porche
said the levee broke during the 1927 flood.  If the town does flood, “I’ll take my important papers and
leave,” Porche said. “I’d have a couple of cats to board.”  “I feel safe in Melville,” Krasgrow said. “We’ve got
levees on four sides of us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Baton Rouge at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 