-- 
Louisiana, Mississippi Governors Urge People to Ready for River Flood

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-12T15:31:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/louisiana-mississippi-governors-urge-people-to-ready-for-flood.html
Residents of  Louisiana  and
Mississippi should be ready for flooding along tributaries,
bayous and spillways as the swollen  Mississippi River  pushes
record amounts of water south to the  Gulf of Mexico , the states’
governors said.  While Louisiana monitors the river’s volume to decide if it
must take pressure off the cities of Baton Rouge and New
Orleans, Mississippi is watching water rise in the historic
Delta region, considered the birthplace of the blues.  “There’s no reason for anybody to lose their life in
this,” Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour said yesterday at a
press conference in Greenville. “We’ve had days and days of
warning and the crest isn’t even here yet.”  The  river in Memphis  crested at 47.87 feet (14.5 meters)
May 10, just below the 1937 record of 48.7 feet, according to
the  National Weather Service . The bulge of water caused by the
convergence of the swollen Mississippi and Ohio rivers at Cairo,
 Illinois , is moving slowly downstream toward New Orleans and the
Gulf of Mexico, which it will reach in about two weeks.  Communities south of  Memphis  are inspecting levees and
packing sandbags as they watch the floodwaters roll south toward
oil refineries and fragile marshland.  North Louisiana Flooding  As many as 3,900 people may be affected by flooding in
northern Louisiana, Governor Bobby Jindal said at a press
conference yesterday in Baton Rouge.  In the southern part of the state, the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers may open the Morganza spillway, sending water down the
Atchafalaya River basin for the first time since 1973.  The Atchafalaya, which normally receives 30 percent of the
water coming down the Mississippi, has already started to rise
even without the Morganza being opened.  In Melville, Louisiana, about 41 miles (66 kilometers)
northwest of  Baton Rouge , residents seeking a glimpse of the
rising water kept coming as dark fell to the Atchafalaya’s bank
under a seven-span lift bridge that carries Union Pacific Corp.
trains.  “It looks like it is coming to get us,” said Gerry
Krasgrow, who grew up in town. “It’s like a monster coming down
the river.”  Pondering Evacuation  Krasgrow and neighbor Darrell Porche said they wouldn’t
leave Melville, even though both thought the river would rise
high enough to push on the earth levee that protects it. Porche
said the levee broke during the 1927 flood.  If the town does flood, “I’ll take my important papers and
leave,” Porche said. “I’d have a couple of cats to board.”  In a worst-case scenario, if the spillway isn’t opened,  New
Orleans  may be threatened by flood waters and levee breaks that
would cause greater damage than  Hurricane Katrina , the New
Orleans Times-Picayune reported, citing a  corps map it obtained .  Ryan Heck, a sales representative for Hertz Service Pump
and Compressor in Baton Rouge, said he’s worried that once the
corps opens the Morganza, the agency won’t be able to close it
again. That would let the river change its course and bypass New
Orleans and Baton Rouge.  “This could be the biggest train wreck in the history of
Louisiana but it’s also the slowest train wreck in the history
of Louisiana,” Heck said today.  Inside the Spillway  About 2,500 people inside the floodway may be affected by
the opening of the Morganza, while backed-up tributaries cause
smaller rivers and bayous to flood, affecting as many as 22,500
others, Jindal said.  Residents in the spillway should assume the Morganza will
be opened and act accordingly, he said yesterday. The decision
will be made when the river flow at Louisiana’s Red River
Landing reaches 1.5 million cubic feet per second, according to
the  Army Corps .  The flow as of today was 1.45 million cubic feet per
second, according to the weather service.  “You hate to pass the buck on to someone else,” said Fred
Taylor, who owns Poor Boy Lloyd’s Seafood Restaurant near the
river in Baton Rouge, the state capital.  An earthen levee, reinforced by concrete in front of the
downtown area, protects  Baton Rouge  from the Mississippi.  Taylor said he couldn’t remember seeing the river so high
in his 63 years.  Baton Rouge Levels  At 9 a.m. local time today, the river was at 43.5 feet at
Baton Rouge, heading for a crest of 47.5 feet on May 22,
according to the weather service. That would be above the 1927
record of 47.3 feet.  The  Bonnet Carre spillway  west of New Orleans was already
opened May 9 so excess river water could pour north into  Lake
Pontchartrain .  In  Mississippi , officials are most concerned about
tributary flooding in the fertile Delta region in the
northwestern corner of the state, Barbour said. A possible
breach of a levee that was built to relieve flooding on the
Yazoo River would affect thousands of people in Cary, Hollandale
and other towns south of Greenville, he said.  At Vicksburg, Mississippi, due west of Jackson, the river
is expected to crest at 57.5 feet on May 19, about 1.5 feet
above the 1927 record, according to the Corps of Engineers.  Two of the area’s four casinos, which employ about 2,000
people in all, are shuttered, and about 1,200 of Vicksburg’s
4,000 manufacturing jobs are idled, said Wayne Mansfield,
executive director of the  Warren County Port Commission .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Baton Rouge at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
David Mildenberg in Vicksburg at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 