-- 
House Republican Group Wants to Cut Deficit in Half Next Year

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-05-12T14:09:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/house-republican-group-wants-to-cut-deficit-in-half-next-year.html
A group of U.S.  House Republicans  is
proposing spending reductions that would cut the federal deficit
in half in one year.  The Republican Study Committee, a group of self-described
fiscal conservatives, is circulating a letter asking House
Speaker  John Boehner  to back a plan that would reduce spending
by about $380 billion in fiscal 2012 in exchange for a vote to
approve in increase in the statutory debt limit.  “If you’re going to increase the borrowing authority,
you’ve got to deal with spending,” said Representative Jim Jordan, an Ohio Republican and chairman of the study committee
who said he is seeking signatures on the letter. “We actually
think you’ve got to do something big in 2012.”  The proposal is one of several circulating among
Republicans who are using the prospect of crashing into the
$14.3 trillion debt ceiling to extract spending cuts from
Democrats. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  has said
lawmakers must raise the limit before Aug. 2 or risk a default.  Jordan said lawmakers could reach the spending-cut goal by
freezing discretionary spending at 2008 levels and cutting
social welfare programs other than Social Security, Medicare and
Medicaid.  The group would also seek to cap  government spending  at 18
percent of gross domestic product and implement a balanced
budget constitutional amendment over the long term.  The 175 members of the Republican Study Committee are
debating whether the debt ceiling should be increased by a large
enough amount to carry the government through the 2012 election,
or whether to force multiple votes by extending the limit by
incremental amounts and gaining spending concessions with each
vote.  “There is a proposal to do a $2 trillion one that gets you
through to the end of the election,” said New Jersey Republican
 Scott Garrett  in an interview. “There’s an option that gets you
just until Oct. 1, and there’s monthly until October.”  “Getting us to October is doable,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  