-- 
Peru Raises Rate to Two-Year High of 4.25% in Effort to Slow Inflation

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-05-12T23:35:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/peru-raises-rate-to-two-year-high-of-4-25-in-effort-to-slow-inflation.html
Peru ’s central bank raised its
benchmark lending rate to the highest level in two years today
after inflation last month accelerated above policy makers’
target for the first time since 2009.  The seven-member board raised the benchmark rate by a
quarter point to 4.25 percent, matching the expectations of 13
out of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. One economist
forecast a half-point rise and one expected a pause.  Policy makers can afford to hold off accelerating the pace
of monetary tightening, even as price pressures build, because
companies are postponing investments until they know the outcome
of next month’s presidential runoff,  Hugo Perea , chief economist
at  BBVA Banco Continental . Inflation last month breached the 3
percent upper limit of Peru’s target range for the first time in
almost two years.  “The deceleration in economic activity implies the central
bank should make gradual movements in the benchmark rate,”
Perea said in a telephone interview from  Lima . “There is an
uncertain economic context.”  Policy makers said the increase aimed to limit the impact
of rising food and fuel prices on inflation and was part of
their efforts to slow consumer prices back to target, according
their statement posted on the bank’s web site. Future increases
would depend on subsequent economic data, they said.  Finance Minister Ismael Benavides said in a May 3 interview
that domestic demand is slowing as investors fret over the
policies of ex-army officer  Ollanta Humala , who is tied in polls
with Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori ahead of the June 5 vote.  Election, GDP  Humala’s campaign platform includes a proposal to raise
mining taxes and revise contracts with foreign companies. The
one-time ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  had 38 percent
support in a Datum Internacional survey published today,
compared with 41 percent for Fujimori.  The government expects gross domestic product to expand 6.5
percent this year, less than its previous forecast of 7.5
percent, Benavides said. GDP rose 8.5 percent in February from a
year earlier, after surging 10 percent in January.  The central bank will use “conventional” policy tools
after annual inflation last month breached the upper limit of
its 1 percent to 3 percent target range for the first time in
almost two years, bank President Julio Velarde said last week.  Food prices have risen more than expected in 2011, and the
government will eventually have to raise gasoline prices that
have been frozen since February to reflect higher crude  oil
prices , said Perea.  “The central bank needs to keep tightening to ease demand
growth and to try to keep inflation expectations anchored,” he
said.  Prices, Expectations, Target  Consumer prices rose 3.34 percent in April from a year
earlier and 0.68 percent from March, beating analysts’
estimates. Food prices jumped 1.2 percent and clothing costs
climbed 1 percent during the month. The monthly inflation rate
was 0.7 percent in March, the highest in 33 months.  The jump in inflation reflected higher international prices
for corn, wheat and cotton and the higher cost of food produced
locally. Inflation was last above policy makers’ target in June
2009, when prices rose 3.06 percent from a year earlier.  Velarde on May 9 said inflation will top the upper limit of
the bank’s target range in 2011. He added that inflation in May
will be slower, and a decline in commodity prices will ease
inflationary pressures.  The Andean nation’s consumer price index is the second-most
exposed to food inflation among emerging markets, after the
 Philippines , according to the central bank. Food and drink costs
account for 38 percent of the gauge.  Peruvian economists raised their 2011 inflation forecasts
for a third straight month in April, forecasting a 3.5 percent
rise, according to the central bank’s latest survey.  Regional Policies  Higher food and oil prices are pushing policy makers in
 South America  to tighten  money supply  and cool consumer demand.  Chilean policy makers accelerated the pace of tightening at
their last two meetings and raised by a greater-than-expected
half-point to 5 percent today while Colombia’s central bank
raised borrowing costs for a third straight month in April to
head off inflationary pressures.  Brazilian central bank President Alexandre Tombini last
week pledged that policy makers will raise  interest rates  for as
long as needed to bring inflation back to their target in 2012.  Still, while the latest inflation readings in Chile and
 Colombia  have been lower than expected and price rises may have
peaked in  Brazil , the outlook for Peru has deteriorated.  “Inflation is picking up steam,” said Kathryn Rooney Vera, an emerging markets analyst at Bulltick Capital Markets in
Miami. She expects a further two increases to take Peru’s
benchmark rate to 4.75 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 