-- 
Petrobras Cuts to Ethanol Prices May Deter Plant Investments, Analyst Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-05-13T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/petrobras-cuts-to-ethanol-prices-may-deter-plant-investments-analyst-says.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ’s
“unprecedented” move to control ethanol pricing in  Brazil  may
reduce investments in the industry’s production capacity, an
analyst said.  The state-controlled oil company’s BR Distribuidora
distribution unit will cut the price of ethanol at the pump by
13 percent and gas by 6 percent, to slow inflation.  Ethanol producers that are building or expanding refineries
to meet growing demand may reconsider their investments because
the government may adjust pricing again if it considers
inflation to be a problem, according to Adriano Pires, director
of the Rio de Janeiro-based research company  Centro Brasileiro
de Infra Estrutura .  The cuts will cut into profits and have “augmented
significantly the risks” for companies that are “raising their
ethanol production,” he said in an interview. “This is the
first time the government has intervened in this way and there’s
no reason to say it won’t do the same in the future.”  BR Distribuidora’s cuts, announced through the official
government  newswire , are meant to spur other distributors like
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to follow suit, Pires said.  Prices of hydrous ethanol, which is used by the country’s
rapidly expanding fleet of flex-fuel cars, reached record highs
in March after sugar cane mills shut down for the annual inter-
harvest season and supplies waned.  After the mills went back into production, prices dropped.
Ethanol was selling for 1.07 reais (66 cents) a liter on May 6,
down 44 percent from its March 25 peak, according to Piracicaba-
based research institute Centro de Estudos Avancados em Economia
Aplicada.  Managing Supply  A presidential decree in April gave Brazil’s fuel regulator
Agencia Nacional do Petroleo, Gas Natural e Biocombustiveis
authority over managing supply, imports and exports of ethanol.  Pires said the regulator may decide that Petrobras should
take on responsibility for blending all the country’s ethanol
with gasoline, a move that would give the oil company control
over setting prices for the renewable fuel.  Ethanol producers are “worried that a stronger regulation
is in the making,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  