-- 
Petrobras Lowers Gasoline Prices 6% as Brazil Seeks to Rein in Inflation

-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-05-12T15:22:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/petrobras-distribution-unit-cuts-gasoline-prices-6-percent.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the Brazilian
state-owned oil company, said its fuel distribution unit will
cut gasoline prices by 6 percent as the government battles to
slow inflation from its fastest pace in more than five years.  Gasoline prices will be cut because the country’s sugar
harvest will reduce costs for ethanol, which accounts for 25
percent of blended gasoline, a spokesman for BR Distribuidora,
who can’t be named under company policy, said by telephone.  President  Dilma Rousseff  is pursuing “populist” policies
to keep consumer prices in check, Adriano Pires, head of the Rio
de Janeiro-based Brazilian Center for Infrastructure, a research
group, said today. Annual consumer price inflation accelerated
to 6.51 percent in the year through April, breaking the 6.5
percent upper limit of the target for the first time since 2005.  “The government is intervening in BR Distribuidora for the
first time, and this is very serious,” Pires said in a
telephone interview. “If BR Distribuidora reduces prices, other
companies will be forced to reduce as well,” he said.  Petrobras fell 2.21 percent to 23.48 reais at 10:08 New
York time. The stock has dropped about 13 percent this year,
compared with an 8 percent decline for  Brazil ’s benchmark
Bovespa Index.  “Government’s Influence”  Companies including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Cosan Ltd and
Ultrapar Participacoes SA have gasoline stations in Brazil. The
price cut will hurt Ultrapar because fuel distribution accounts
for 70 percent to 75 percent of its sales, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analyst Sergio Torres said today in a note to clients.  “It shows the government’s influence in the company, which
will be viewed as very negative,” Torres wrote.  Petrobras hasn’t changed the prices its refineries charge
fuel distributors since mid-2009, when it cut gasoline prices
4.5 percent and diesel by 15 percent. Those price caps at
refineries hurt profits more than today’s gasoline cuts because
BR Distribuidora is a small division of the world’s fourth
largest  oil company  by market capital, Pires said.  BR Distribuidora accounts for less than 4 percent of
Petrobras’s earnings before interest taxes and amortization, and
the price reductions will have a “very small” impact on the
company’s profits, Torres wrote.  The antitrust arm of Brazil’s Justice Ministry opened an
investigation into BR Distribuidora for alleged abuse of its
dominant market position in the federal district.  SDE, as the antitrust body is known, saw evidence that BR
Distribuidora may have harmed competition in the country’s
capital by providing benefits to the Gasol chain and not others,
according to an e-mailed statement from the Justice Ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio De Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  