-- 
Petratherm Seeks to Tap $5.3 Million Australian Clean Energy Funding

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-05-12T07:45:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/petratherm-seeks-to-tap-5-3-million-australian-clean-energy-funding.html
Petratherm Ltd. (PTR) , an Australian
company seeking to produce power from underground heat, said it
will apply for A$5 million ($5.3 million) of the increased funds
the government devoted to renewable energy in the budget.  “It’s important that the geothermal industry has another
source of funding because the equity markets are quite
challenging at the moment,” Terry Kallis, managing director of
Adelaide-based Petratherm, said in a phone interview.  The Australian government in the annual budget boosted
grants for “emerging” geothermal, wave, wind and solar
technologies to A$100 million from A$40 million and committed
A$100 million to a renewable energy venture capital fund,
Resources Minister Martin Ferguson said May 10.  Australia , the world’s biggest coal exporter, has set a
target of generating 20 percent of its power from renewable
energy by 2020. Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  wants to set a
price on  carbon emissions  in July 2012 before a trading system
that may begin as early as 2015, seeking to curb greenhouse gas
pollution and encourage investment in cleaner energy.  Uncertainty about whether the government will impose a
carbon price has discouraged investors, hurting shares of
geothermal companies such as Petratherm, which has dropped 38
percent in Sydney in 12 months, Kallis said yesterday.  Petratherm rose 4.6 percent today to 11.5 Australian cents
a share at the 4:10 p.m. close in Sydney, compared with a 1.8
percent drop in the S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Geodynamics Ltd. (GDY) , another
Australian geothermal company, fell 5.4 percent to 26.5 cents.  Government Grants  Petratherm is targeting the government funds for its
Heliotherm project, which aims to combine geothermal, solar and
natural gas technologies to produce power, Kallis said. The
venture was awarded A$1.5 million in grants by the  South
Australia  state government, said Petratherm, which is also
developing the Paralana geothermal project in South Australia.  The federal government has committed about A$1.5 billion to
large-scale solar energy projects and a further A$1.8 billion to
 carbon capture  and storage technologies.  “In relative terms, geothermal and wave and those sorts of
technologies are not getting the level of funding they need,”
he said. “Having said that, we welcome the additional money,
particularly when you see a budget that was put forward as a
hard budget.”  Geodynamics has the funds it will likely need in the next
12 months, Geoff Ward, chief executive of Brisbane-based
Geodynamics, said by phone. The company intends to spend as much
as A$70 million in that period as it moves toward a target of
starting a 1-megawatt pilot project by March 2012, he said.  If successful, the Cooper Basin venture could lead to a 25-
megawatt plant using a technology that injects water underground
into hot rocks to generate steam for making electricity.  India ’s
Tata Power Co. Ltd. owns about 8.7 percent of Geodynamics, while
Sydney-based  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)  holds about 5.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 