-- 
Pink Floyd’s Waters Turns ‘Wall’ Into Pompous Spectacle: Review

-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 
2011-05-12T07:12:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/pink-floyd-s-waters-turns-wall-into-pompous-anti-war-spectacle-review.html
A plane careers across London’s  O2
Arena  and crashes onstage in a ball of flame. It is barely five
minutes after the first chords of Roger Waters’s “The Wall.”  Giant inflatable grotesques, a hunchbacked cane-wielding
teacher and a flame-haired woman with mantis arms are soon
leering over the audience. A 35-foot (10.6 meter) wall is
gradually constructed across the front of the stage.  Amid a riot of overstatement, it’s a shame the  Pink Floyd 
music is overblown, somewhat vacant and just a little dull.  Last night was the first of six concerts that Waters will
play in London. The 119-date  tour  has already traversed  North
America  and will continue through  Europe  until July.  Its shortcomings do not stop it from being a must-see, for
a number of reasons.  The first is the show’s history. “The Wall” was a double
album recorded in 1979 by Floyd, the British progressive rock
band of which Waters was bassist and vocalist.  The LP’s creation was troubled. The initial inspiration
came from Waters’s sense of isolation: he saw a wall between him
and the audience.  This ballooned into a concept album about the traumas of a
rock star called Pink. Pink’s father died in World War II (so
had Waters’s). Pink was bullied by teachers (so was Waters).
Pink became a rock star who decided he was a fascist dictator.  Others might have sought out a good therapist. Waters
released the album and took it on tour, using images by
satirical cartoonist  Gerald Scarfe  on the album sleeve. The
record has sold more than 25 million copies and will soon be re-
released in a re-mastered deluxe 7-disc set.  Berlin Wall   If recording the album had been difficult, the 30 tour
dates unraveled Pink Floyd. Decades later, there was a brief
Live 8 reunion. Waters performed in  Germany  to mark the fall of
the Berlin Wall. He is now 67 and is hinting that this will be
his final big tour. This is likely to be a one-off opportunity.  Technically, the show is superb. The wall is built brick by
brick (there are around 400 of them, made of cardboard, each one
lasting between one and three shows). Sound effects -- the roar
of helicopters, the laughter of children -- make full use of the
quadraphonic sound system. Scarfe’s animations, rejuvenated with
digital technology, are more scathing than ever.  “Comfortably Numb” remains a song of considerable scope
(it was covered by the Scissor Sisters). The hazy harmonies of
“Goodbye Blue Sky” recall earlier glories. “Run Like Hell” has a
viciously exciting streak. Each is excellently reproduced by
Waters’s extended band.  Self Importance  Too many other songs are musically ordinary and mired in
self-importance. “Mother” is a blunt accusation against an over-
protective parent. “Young Lust” is second-rate ZZ Top. “Another
Brick In The Wall Part 2” is ugly, even with local
schoolchildren chanting “We don’t need no education.” Waters
sounds strained. His stagecraft is dire, with measly acting,
atrocious mime and clumsy air-punching.  The pompous imagery is heavy handed, with slogans and sub-
Banksy graffiti. Animated bomber planes drop religious symbols
and corporate logos. Waters wears a black leather trench coat
with a red armband for a flag-waving proto-Nuremberg rally.  Photographs of victims of conflict try to expand the
repertoire with the idea that people dying in war is traumatic
and bad. Song after plodding song, “The Wall” trots out basic
expressions of anger, confusion and fear, without having
anything to say about them. Despite its extravagant posturing,
nowhere does the show contain any shred of real insight.  Rating: **.  “Roger Waters: The Wall Live” has five more dates at the
O2, tonight and May 14, 15, 17 and 18 and then moves to
Manchester, U.K.  European shows continue through July, in Ireland,  Belgium ,
 France , Germany,  Switzerland ,  Denmark ,  Hungary ,  Italy  and
 Greece . Information:  http://tour.rogerwaters.com/   The currently available Pink Floyd album “The Wall” will
be part of a remastered box of the band’s CDs this year, with a
deluxe 7-disc set of “The Wall” due in February 2012, all on
EMI Records. There is also a Roger Waters CD and DVD, “The
Wall: Live in Berlin.”  Prices start at $21. Download fees vary across services.
Information:  http://www.pinkfloyd.com/ .  ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in  London  at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 