-- 
Polish April Inflation Probably Quickened to 31-Month High, Survey Shows

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-05-13T09:18:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/polish-inflation-probably-accelerated-to-31-month-high-in-april.html
Polish inflation probably accelerated
to the fastest since September 2008 last month as concern that
price-growth is spreading beyond food and fuel prompts the
central bank to raise  interest rates .  Consumer prices rose an annual 4.5 percent, compared with a
4.3 percent increase in March, according to the median estimate
of 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The  Central Statistical
Office  will release price data at 2 p.m. in Warsaw.  The central bank unexpectedly raised the benchmark seven-
day interest rate by a quarter-point to 4.25 percent on May 11,
the third increase this year. Governor  Marek Belka  said policy
makers considered inflation to be “broad-based.” Prior to
January, the bank’s Monetary Policy Council had kept rates at
3.5 percent for 18 months to spur economic growth.  “The May rate decision can be interpreted as an attempt to
make up for lost time and tame inflation” by strengthening the
zloty, said  Piotr Kalisz , chief economist at Citibank Handlowy
in Warsaw. “Policy makers most likely decided to bring
inflation down to its 2.5 percent target through more active
stimulation of the currency exchange rate.”  The zloty has gained 1.45 percent against the euro since
April 20, the second-best performance among 11 currencies in
east  Europe  and  Africa  that are tracked by Bloomberg. The Polish
currency weakened for the first time in six days today, falling
0.1 percent to 3.9139 against the euro at 10:55 a.m. in Warsaw.  The central bank is concerned an accelerating economic
recovery and growing employment may lead to increased pressure
on wages and prices. Belka said the council’s May 11 decision
“quickened” the monetary-tightening schedule without altering
the scale of planned rate rises, boosting expectations for more
increases.  “The unexpected May rate increase suggests that the
Monetary Policy Council is focusing on new risks, including
elevated inflation in the second half of 2011, and may be ready
for more rate increases than it deemed necessary earlier this
year,” economists at ING Bank Slaski in Warsaw said today in an
e-mailed note to clients.  Derivatives Bets  Investors in the  derivatives market  are signaling the bank
will lift borrowing costs by at least 25 basis points within the
next three months. Three-month forward rate agreements are
trading 31 basis points above the three-month Warsaw interbank
offered rate, up from 29 basis points before Belka’s comment,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Today’s inflation report probably won’t prompt another rate
increase in June, said Piotr Bielski, an economist at Bank
Zachodni WBK in Warsaw.  “This council acts when inflation breaks a psychological
barrier and the next one would be around 5 percent, so this
slight acceleration is not going to make them hike again in
June,” Bielski said by phone. “It would make more sense to
have raised rates by 50 basis points in May as it’s not about
affecting Brazilian coffee prices but rather the inflation
expectations before they boost pressure on wages.”  Core inflation , which excludes food and energy prices, rose
in March to a one-year high of annual 2 percent. The rate is
expected to rise to 2.1 percent, according to the median
estimate of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  