-- 
Property Buyers Expand as Rebound Spreads From Denver to Dallas

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-05-12T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/property-buyers-expand-their-view-as-rebound-spreads-from-denver-to-dallas.html
Minneapolis , Dallas and Denver are
enticing U.S. commercial-property investors as a rebound in
demand spreads from prime markets along the U.S. coasts.  The cities had three of the four biggest gains in sales by
dollar volume among major metropolitan areas outside the coasts
in the first quarter, according to  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP) , a
Washington-based property-research firm. Sales rose 127 percent
from a year earlier in Minneapolis, 108 percent in Dallas and 89
percent in Denver. Nationally, the increase was 47 percent.  Investors are turning to secondary markets as credit
availability improves and surging demand for properties in New
York,  Washington  and San Francisco boosts prices and reduces
returns in those areas. Cities such as  Dallas  and Houston are
attracting real estate buyers because of the prospects for job
and population growth, according to Robert Bach, chief economist
for Grubb & Ellis Co., a Santa Ana, California-based broker.  “It’s a story of investors gradually embracing risk,”
Bach said in a telephone interview. “They’re looking at other
markets to deploy cash.”  Buyers have included Hines Global REIT Inc., a non-traded
real estate investment trust sponsored by Houston-based
developer Hines. It acquired Fifty South Sixth, a 29-story
office tower in downtown Minneapolis, late last year for $180
million.  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  of Atlanta purchased a 22-story Denver
tower for $213 million in February on behalf of a client. That
was the highest sale price ever for an office building in the
city’s downtown, according to broker Newmark Knight Frank
Frederick Ross.  New York , Washington  Metropolitan areas on the coasts are leading the recovery
in commercial real estate as buyers are attracted to well-
leased, income-producing properties in desirable locations.
Prices for offices, the biggest part of the market, climbed 33
percent in New York and 21 percent in Washington in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, according to Moody’s Investors
Service. That compared with a 1.7 percent gain nationally.  Rising demand pushed down capitalization rates, a measure
of real estate returns, in  Manhattan , Washington and San
Francisco. Cap rates are net operating income divided by the
sales price, so they go down as values rise.  The average cap rate for Manhattan office transactions in
the 12 months through March was 5.6 percent, compared with a
recent peak of 6.5 percent in June 2010, according to Real
Capital Analytics Inc., a property-research firm in New York. In
Washington, the rate fell to 6.1 percent in March from 7.7
percent a year earlier. The  San Francisco  rate dropped to 6.8
percent from 7.7 percent in March 2010.  Extra Yield  The yield available outside the coasts is higher. Office-
property cap rates were 7.8 percent in Dallas, 8.2 percent in
Minneapolis and 8.4 percent in Denver as of March, Real Capital
data show.  “People are looking for extra yield,” Janice Stanton,
senior managing director of capital markets for brokerage
Cushman & Wakefield Inc., said in a phone interview. “You’ll
see a move to the secondary markets because there’s a higher
yield there and also lending is coming back in those markets.”  Property investors are attracted to cities with population
or job increases or both, according to Christopher Macke, senior
real estate strategist at CoStar. Dallas and Denver benefit from
an influx of people and San Francisco,  Seattle  and  Boston  are
boosted by strength in the technology industry, Macke said.  “These are all markets that have performed better on the
employment side,” Macke said.  Minnesota Demand  The jobs outlook is one of the reasons real estate
investors are turning to the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, said
Whitney Peyton, senior managing director for broker CB Richard
Ellis Group Inc. The region has gone from “out of interest” to
in demand for buyers seeking higher returns, he said.  “They’re getting the yields that they want and the
properties are good and the communities are good,” said Peyton,
who is based in Minneapolis. “It’s a flight to pricing.”  The area’s roster of Fortune 500 companies, which include
 Target Corp. (TGT)  and Best Buy Co., and its well-educated workforce
make it attractive to real estate investors, he said. The
Minneapolis-St. Paul area’s unemployment rate was 6.8 percent in
March, below the national rate of 8.8 percent that month.  Texas properties are luring investors because of the
state’s prospects for economic growth, said Bach of Grubb &
Ellis. There is no state income tax and housing is less
expensive than other areas of the country. About 251,000 non-
farm jobs were added in the 12 months through March, according
to the  Texas Workforce Commission .  Oil Benefit  Every metropolitan area in the state is increasing jobs and
“commercial real estate seems to have stabilized,” said Mark Dotzour, chief economist of the Real Estate Center at Texas A&M
University in College Station.  The economy is benefiting from rising oil prices, he said.
Crude futures jumped about 45 percent in the past two years and
reached $113.93 a barrel on April 29, the highest since 2008.  “It’s amazing what $100 oil does for the Texas economy,”
Dotzour said.  The  energy industry  is helping to boost demand in Houston,
said Dennis Friedrich, president of U.S. commercial operations
for New York-based Brookfield Office Properties Inc. Sales in
the largest Texas city rose 55 percent in the first quarter,
according to CoStar.  ‘Reasonable’ Prices  Unilev Capital Corp. in February paid $176 million for
three office towers in Houston and is interested in buying more
properties in the city, said Daniel Levy, president of the
Beverly Hills, California-based company. It owns office and
retail properties in several submarkets of Houston, including
One and Three Riverway, a complex that has about 880,000 square
feet (81,750 square meters) of rentable  office space .  “We are looking to even grow more in Houston,” Levy said
in a telephone interview. “The prices are very reasonable
compared to the other parts of the country.”  In Denver, KBS Real Estate Investment Trust II purchased
Granite Tower, a 31-story downtown  property , in December for
$149 million, the biggest office transaction in the city last
year. The building is about 95 percent leased, with tenants
including Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  The tower is near Coors Field, where  Major League
Baseball ’s Colorado Rockies play, and the redeveloped Union
Station. The location is at the edge of the city’s lower
downtown historic  neighborhood , which has a mix of residential
buildings, bars, restaurants and shopping.  Denver Growth  KBS is attracted to Denver in part because of its
diversified economy, said Christopher Aust, senior vice
president and director of acquisitions for the southwest region.
The population is also increasing, climbing 8.2 percent from
2000 to 2010, according to the U.S. Census  Bureau .  “I see it as an opportunity to be in the path of growth,”
said Aust, whose company is based in Newport Beach,  California .  Among interior cities, only Phoenix had a bigger increase
in sales by dollar volume in the first quarter than Minneapolis,
Dallas and Denver, according to CoStar. Some of those may have
been driven by distressed deals. The area has the third-highest
percentage of commercial properties seized by banks among the
top 25 U.S. metropolitan areas, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg based on loans that were packaged into securities.  San Francisco led the biggest markets in the first quarter
as deals more than tripled from a year earlier in dollar value,
according to CoStar. The data are based on 23 U.S. metro areas.  Las Vegas Slump  The recovery may take longer elsewhere as a national
unemployment rate of 9 percent and an oversupply of distressed
properties reduce values. Las Vegas commercial-real estate
transactions slumped 67 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier as the housing bust hurt the local economy, CoStar data
show.  Nevada  had the highest U.S. unemployment rate, 13.2
percent, as of March, according to the Labor Department.  In cities such as Detroit and Cleveland, which have seen
population declines in the past 60 years, the market is
dominated by local buyers and not institutional investors who
make more deals, said  Ben Thypin , an analyst at Real Capital.  Secondary markets carry risk because building values and
rental rates don’t appreciate as fast as land-constrained
coastal markets such as New York or San Francisco, Bach of Grubb
& Ellis said.  “On balance investors would rather have supply constraints
and barriers to entry than they would fast growth,” he said.
“A fast-growing market also means lots of construction and
rental rates that don’t go up very fast.”  Loan Delinquencies  Loan delinquencies after a more than 40 percent plunge in
property values since 2007 also may limit a rebound. About 5
percent of Dallas metropolitan-area loans that were packaged and
sold in commercial mortgage-backed securities were 90 days late
or more as of this month, the eighth-highest in the U.S. among
the 25 largest metro regions, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Houston was 13th.  Increasing availability of credit, including CMBS, is
boosting demand in smaller markets. The amount of commercial and
apartment-building mortgage origination volume surged 44 percent
to $118.8 billion in 2010 from the previous year, according to
an April 25 report by the Washington-based  Mortgage Bankers
Association .  Wall Street  has sold $8.6 billion of bonds tied to property
loans in 2011, compared with $11.5 billion in all of last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Helping Smaller Markets  “The return of the CMBS market certainly helps the
secondary and tertiary markets,” Thypin said. “They can do
larger loans too, which most local banks can’t do.”  Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG in February sold $2.2 billion
of bonds backed by commercial mortgages on office, retail, hotel
apartment, industrial and mobile-home properties around the
U.S., including smaller markets such as Phoenix; Cincinnati; and
Jacksonville and Lakeland,  Florida .  Unilev took out a $130 million loan to help purchase the
Houston properties, which was bundled with other debt and sold
to investors in a CMBS, according to Bloomberg data.  “It’s good to see the sales spreading out from just, say,
D.C. and New York,” CoStar’s Macke said. “What that indicates
is increased confidence among the investors willing to go to
markets that aren’t the absolute gold-plated guaranteed markets
that you would go to first.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  