-- 
Proposal Limiting Consumer-Product Safety Agency Advances

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 
2011-05-12T20:07:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/proposal-limiting-consumer-product-safety-agency-advances.html
A House subcommittee approved a
proposal to roll back the U.S. Consumer Product Safety
Commission’s authority on issues including lead testing for
toys, baby-crib replacements and consumer complaints.  Child-care facilities would get more time to replace out-
of-date cribs, a stronger lead-content limit would be delayed
and businesses would get relief in product testing in proposed
changes to a 2008 consumer-protection law crafted by
Representative Mary Bono Mack, a California Republican and
chairman of the Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade Subcommittee.
The legislation would also restrict who may post to a CPSC
 website  that tracks complaints about consumer products.  “We need to make some common-sense, sensible changes to
the CPSC,” Representative  Joe Barton , a Texas Republican and
former chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, said
today. “We were in the process of creating a regulatory and
compliance nightmare.”  The proposal next faces a vote in the full Energy and
Commerce Committee.  The 2008 law passed to protect children created unintended
consequences in the types of products covered, like all-terrain
vehicles and brass musical instruments, adding costs for
businesses to prevent problems with little real-world risk, some
Republicans have said.  Chemicals in Toys  The proposal would ensure limits on the chemicals that
soften plastics in toys would apply only to the parts of a
product that a child can touch.  A child would have to ingest 7,000 rubber-duck bath toys in
order to get a toxic level of plastic-softening  phthalates  in
his blood, Barton said.  The 2008 law provided that, by Aug. 14, 2011, all
children’s products would be subject to lead-content limits of
100 parts per million, down from 300 parts per million today.
The bill delays that step until August 2012 and narrows the
range to apply only to goods aimed at children ages 6 and under
that can be placed in a child’s mouth.  Some Democrats said the proposal approved today goes too
far, weakening lead limits and testing requirements that were at
the heart of legislation passed with large bipartisan majorities
in both chambers of Congress three years ago after a scare about
lead in toys imported from China, such as Barbie accessories
made by  Mattel Inc. (MAT)   Children in day-care centers “should not be placed in
cribs that don’t meet up-to-date and rigorous safety
standards,” said Representative G.K. Butterfield, a North
Carolina Democrat. “Lead-content limits should not be stretched
to benefit industry to the detriment of our children. A toy box
shouldn’t be a game of roulette.”  Posting Complaints  The  CPSC’s website  tracking consumer complaints was
authorized by the 2008 law to make the public aware of potential
safety issues more quickly. The site’s implementation has been
criticized by business groups including the Washington-based
 National Association of Manufacturers .  The proposal approved by the subcommittee today would limit
the agency to posting items at the site from people who are
injured, members of their families or people authorized by them.
The agency would have to do more to verify the claims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  