-- 
Research Panel Says Climate Change Doubts Slow Urgent Action

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-05-12T18:54:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/public-doubts-on-climate-change-delay-urgent-action-report-says.html
Public misconceptions of  climate
change  have thwarted urgently needed U.S. efforts to reduce
emissions blamed for global warming, according to a report from
the  National Research Council of the National Academies .  The media sometimes present aspects of climate change that
are well-established as if they were “matters of serious
debate,” according to the report released today in  Washington .
Groups opposed to policies limiting carbon-dioxide emissions are
influencing some reporting, according to the study, which was
requested by Congress in 2008 when Democrats were in the
majority. It was prepared by a committee of scientists,
engineers and economists.  Climate change is happening and is "very likely’’ caused by
the burning of fossil fuels, said committee chairman Albert Carnesale, chancellor emeritus and professor at the  University
of California ,  Los Angeles . The U.S. should respond with
“aggressive emissions reductions” of greenhouse gases from
power plants, factories and transportation, and plan for
adapting to effects of global warming, such as rising seas, with
a national strategy, the council said.  “We’re talking about a challenge that is a matter of
decades and indeed where some of the consequences are quiet,
delayed, and so public understanding and support is essential,”
Carnesale said in an interview.  Informing Decision-makers  The National Research Council, based in Washington,
provides information for government decision-makers under the
auspices of the  National Academy of Sciences , the National
Academy of Engineering and the  Institute of Medicine .  The Earth’s average surface temperature has increased by
about 1.4 degrees Fahrenheit (0.8 degrees Celsius) over the past
100 years, with about one degree occurring over the past three
decades, according to the report. A “preponderance” of
scientific evidence shows that the release of carbon dioxide and
other heat-trapping gases is the “most likely” cause of most
warming during the past 50 years, the report found.  Melting ice, rising average sea levels and reduced snow
cover in the Northern Hemisphere can be linked in part to
warming, the report said. In the U.S., temperatures have
increased by more than two degrees during the past 50 years.
Extreme weather, such as drought and heavy downpours, is more
frequent and intense.  Hacked E-mails  Public support for science associating human activity with
warming fell after thousands of e-mails were hacked from
computer servers at the University of East Anglia’s Climate
Research Unit in the U.K. in November 2009. The stolen e-mails
included discussions among climate researchers about keeping
some scientific papers out of a report by the United Nations
 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change , which is charged with
summarizing science on the topic for policy makers around the
world.  Members of the  U.S. Congress , led by Sen. James Inhofe, an
Oklahoma Republican, faulted the IPCC at about the same time for
exaggerating how fast Himalayan glaciers are melting.  The UN panel and former Vice President  Al Gore  shared the
2007 Nobel Peace Prize for their warnings on global warming.
Three separate probes last year cleared the university of data
manipulation.  “Those revelations were made while we were in the midst of
our study,” Carnesale said. The committee “independently
reaffirmed the basic finding that climate change is occurring,
that’s its very likely caused primarily by human activities and
it poses significant risks.”  ’Massive Costs’  The report’s proposals would “impose massive costs without
meaningful benefits,” Inhofe said in an e-mailed statement
today. “Unilateral U.S. action would be fruitless without
comparable actions by China and  India .”  The research council said the U.S. should work with other
countries to develop technology that can cut emissions and
advance research on the causes and effects of climate change.  In 2009, President  Barack Obama  signed an international
agreement known as the Copenhagen Accord that aims to limit the
global temperature rise since industrialization to 3.6 degrees.
Congress in 2010 failed to pass legislation to create a cap-and-
trade system to curb greenhouse gas emissions.  Last month, the Republican-controlled House passed
legislation prohibiting the Environmental Protection Agency from
regulating  greenhouse gases  blamed for climate change. The
Senate, which is controlled by Democrats, rejected the measure.  Media coverage has a role “in the increasing polarization
of public beliefs about climate change, along lines of political
ideology,” the report said.  ’Detailed Understanding’  “Fully understanding climate change is a difficult task
even for scientific experts,” according to the report. “People
who have less experience with quantitative data and less time to
develop such detailed understanding must rely on other sources
that may or may not provide trustworthy information.”  Putting a price on carbon dioxide emissions, either through
a cap-and-trade program or a tax, is a critical step in
addressing climate change, Carnesale said. EPA regulation is a
“complementary” policy rather than a substitute, he said.  State, local and business efforts to respond to climate
change will fall short without federal policies and programs,
according to the report.  “America’s response to climate change is ultimately about
making choices in the face of risk,”  William Chameides , the
committee vice chairman and dean of the Nicholas School of the
Environment at  Duke University  in Durham,  North Carolina , said
in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  