-- 
Qatar Shares Drop on Speculation MSCI-Upgrade Gains Are Overdone

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-05-12T11:55:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/qatar-shares-drop-on-speculation-msci-upgrade-gains-are-overdone.html
Qatar shares fell for the first time
in five days on speculation gains prompted by optimism that
index provider MSCI Inc. will upgrade the Persian Gulf nation to
an emerging market in June may be overdone.
      Masraf Al Rayan (MARK) , Qatar’s second-biggest Islamic
lender, retreated the most in more than a week. Industries
Qatar, the Middle East’s second-largest petrochemicals company,
decreased 1 percent. The  QE Index (DSM)  dropped 0.6 percent, the
biggest decline since April 24, to 8,711.49 at the 1:15 p.m.
close in Doha, trimming the gain for the week to 3.1 percent.
The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of regional stocks slipped 0.1
percent.  “We have seen a strong rally the past few days,” said
Sebastien Henin, who helps oversee $110 million at The National
Investor in  Abu Dhabi . “Investors are waiting for MSCI’s
announcement on whether or not Qatar will be included in the
emerging market index. The closer we come to the announcement,
the more volatility we will see.”  Stocks in Qatar and the  United Arab Emirates  have rallied
on investor optimism the countries will be raised from frontier
market status at MSCI. The decision will be announced in June
and will take effect in May 2012. Foreign-ownership limits on
stocks and “efficiency” are some issues that both countries
face, Manuel Rensink, head of Middle East and North Africa at
MSCI, said May 3. Size and liquidity are “not a major hurdle
for the U.A.E. and Qatar,” he said.  Tamweel Gains  Templeton Asset Management Ltd.’s Mark Mobius, who oversees
about $54 billion in emerging markets, said last month the
countries stood a good change of securing an upgrade, though the
impact may be “not that great” because they will have a
“relatively small” weighting on the index.  Masraf Al Rayan retreated 0.8 percent, the most since May
2, to 23.7 riyals. Industries Qatar dropped the most since May 1
to 147 riyals.  In Dubai,  Tamweel PJSC (TAMWEEL) , the home finance company majority
owned by  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB) , surged 6 percent to 85 fils on
speculation the drop in the previous two days was overdone. The
company’s shares tumbled 19 percent in the first two trading
session since Nov. 20, 2008.  “Investors started seeing value at current prices,” said
Mohammed Galal, head of foreign institutional sales trading at
HC Securities in Dubai.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  slipped 0.7 percent. Kuwait’s SE
Price Index, Abu Dhabi’s measure and Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  declined
0.1 percent. Bahrain’s gauge rose less than 0.1 percent,
snapping a seven-day drop.  Saudi Arabia ’s market is closed for
the weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  