-- 
QIB Will Increase Staff as Much as 7% by Year-End, CEO Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-05-12T09:56:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/qib-will-increase-staff-as-much-as-7-by-year-end-ceo-says-1-.html
Qatar Islamic Bank (QIBK) , the country’s
biggest Shariah-compliant lender, plans to increase its
workforce by as much as 7 percent this year, Acting Chief
Executive Officer Ahmad Meshari said today.  The lender, which has about 750 employees, recently hired
more than 50 people, having made a somewhat lesser number
redundant, to bring in “new blood,” Meshari said in a
telephone interview in Doha. There will be no more layoffs and
further hiring is planned, he said.  “To maintain this position of being a market leader, you
need to have the right talent on board,” Meshari said. “Some
people within the organization were not up to what we were
aiming for.”  The bank, which posted the smallest increase in first-
quarter net income among Qatar’s eight publicly listed lenders,
has faced sharper competition in recent years, with the
establishment of  Masraf Al Rayan (MARK) , Barwa Bank and the opening of
Islamic units by conventional banks.  Qatar Islamic recently hired Booze & Co. as a strategic
adviser. That helped to identify “certain gaps in the bank that
need more focus and attention,” Meshari said.  The bank wants to increase its 10 percent market share in
Qatar, where it plans to add four branches this year, he said.
It owns stakes in U.K., Malaysian and Lebanese lenders and may
enter the Indonesian and Turkish markets, he said.  Shariah Order  Qatar Islamic may seek to buy the Shariah-compliant units
of conventional lenders, Meshari said in February, after the
country’s central bank issued a rule requiring conventional
lenders to stop taking Islamic deposits and eventually to close
their Shariah divisions.  A separate decision by the central bank last month limited
the size and maturity of personal loans issued by banks, as well
as the interest that may be charged. That could slow growth and
profit at banks such as  Commercial Bank of Qatar (CBQK)  and  Doha Bank
QSC (DHBK) , Credit Suisse Group AG said on April 14.  “All banks will be affected, not only us,” Meshari said.
“There are other ways to make up the difference. There are
certain niche markets that need to be looked at.”  The bank, the second-best performing Islamic lender behind
Masraf on the Qatar Index of leading companies this year, fell
1.3 percent to 81.2 riyals at 12:03 p.m. on the Doha bourse
today. The stock has risen 0.9 percent this year.  Meshari took over as acting chief executive officer after
Salah Al Jaida, the former CEO, stepped down last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  