-- 
Quintiles Pays Higher Interest Rate for Maturity Break: Corporate Finance

-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o   a n d   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 
2011-05-12T15:24:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/quintiles-raises-rate-to-fix-balance-sheet-corporate-finance.html
Quintiles Transnational Corp. is
asking lenders to extend debt maturities for as much as six
years after it abandoned similar plans to borrow more than $2
billion amid a March stumble in the credit markets.  The world’s biggest conductor of medical studies is
offering to pay a higher interest rate on the $2.23 billion in
loans it’s seeking to refinance about $1.7 billion of debt and
push its nearest maturity to 2018, according to a May 10
statement. The company also plans to pay a dividend to
shareholders, said a person with knowledge of the transaction.  Loan prices have risen 0.67 cent on average since March 22,
when Quintiles, based in Research Triangle Park,  North Carolina ,
ended an earlier bid to refund its debt. Companies have taken
advantage of an open market to refinance $170 billion of
leveraged, or high-risk, loans this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We look at pushing maturities out as favorable,” Jessica Gladstone, an analyst for New York-based Moody’s Investors
Service, which rates Quintiles B1, said in a telephone
interview. “In general a B1 should not have a problem
refinancing, but if you look back at recent history if there is
a severe credit crisis any company can be at risk. This deal
would basically push out their maturity profile until 2018,
which is very attractive.”  Loan Terms  Quintiles is offering lenders 3.75 percentage points more
than the London interbank offered rate on the new $2 billion
first-lien  term loan  B, which is due 2018, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the terms are private. The
loan will have a 1.25 percent minimum on the lending benchmark.  The transaction will refinance the $950 million Quintiles
has outstanding under its term loan B due 2013, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That loan has an interest rate of 2
percentage points more than Libor.  The company is extending its closest maturity by as much as
six years, Bloomberg data show.  Phil Bridges, a Quintiles spokesman, declined to comment
beyond the statement.  Proceeds from the loan will also be used to fund a tender
of all of its $525 million of 9.5 percent senior notes due 2014,
the company said in the statement. The facility includes a $225
million first-lien revolving line of credit.  Higher Rate  The interest rate being offered on the new term loan is as
much as 0.75 percentage point more than what Quintiles offered
on a $2.2 billion term loan it pulled in March, said the person.
The company pulled the deal, “when global credit market
conditions became less favorable than expected,” according to
the May 10 statement.  In a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t. A term loan A is
sold primarily to banks, while so-called B loans are mainly
bought by non-bank lenders such as collateralized loan
obligations, mutual funds and  hedge funds .  Quintiles has reduced its adjusted leverage, or debt to
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
to the mid-3-times area, according to a March 10 Standard &
Poor’s report. The ratings company expected Quintiles’ leverage
to increase to 4.3 times after it completed a planned $2.43
billion credit facility that was later scuttled.  Based on S&P calculations from March, Quintiles’ pro forma
leverage after the current transaction will be about 4 times.  ‘Strong Fundamental Profile’  “Quintiles has a very strong fundamental profile in terms
of size and scale and in terms of market position,” said
Moody’s Gladstone. “Their financial metrics are in the single-B
range and that’s driven by their financial policies that include
share repurchases and the dividends that they’ve done.”  The  Standard & Poor’s /LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index,
which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien
leveraged loans, fell 0.04 cent yesterday to 95.87 cents on the
dollar. On Feb. 14, it closed at 96.48 cents on the dollar, the
highest level since November 2007 and up from a low of 59.2
cents on Dec. 17, 2008, three months after Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. collapsed.  Demand for new issues has increased as a record $13.07
billion has flowed into U.S. floating-rate mutual funds this
year, according to EPFR Global, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
research firm, with few new borrowers coming to market. Nearly
70 percent of the $245.5 billion of leveraged loans arranged so
far this year in the U.S. has been used to refinance debt,
creating outsized demand for new issues.  Borrowers Return  “If you look at the inflows into loan funds this year
there’s been a tremendous amount of retail participation from
people who are looking for some yield above money market and who
have been frightened off by the municipal-bond market,” said
Scott Grzankowski, a market analyst at KDP Investment Advisors
in Montpelier,  Vermont . “This demand in leveraged loans creates
an opportunity for companies to come back to refinance their
debt at more attractive terms.”  Companies seeking bank debt have been returning to market
after more than $15 billion of leveraged-loan deals were pulled
in March amid concerns that recovery in the global economy would
be derailed following the earthquake in  Japan  and unrest in the
Middle East and  Libya .  Bank One Corp., private-equity company Texas Pacific Group
Ltd., now known as TPG Capital, and Dennis Gillings, the
Quintiles founder and chief executive officer, purchased the
business in 2003 for $1.7 billion, or $14.50 a share in cash. In
2007, JPMorgan Chase & Co., which purchased Bank One in 2004,
sold its stake, and private-equity companies Bain Capital LLC
and 3i Group Plc became investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Bravo in  New York  at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net ;
Krista Giovacco in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 