-- 
Rajaratnam, S&P, Google, GM, JPMorgan, Madoff in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-05-12T12:24:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/rajaratnam-s-p-google-gm-madoff-unicredit-in-court-news.html
Galleon Group LLC’s  Raj Rajaratnam ,
potentially facing almost two decades in prison, will have an
“uphill struggle” in seeking to overturn his conviction in the
biggest insider-trading trial since the 1980s, a former
prosecutor said.  The hedge fund co-founder will appeal yesterday’s verdict
to the U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan, according to his
attorney, John Dowd. Dowd failed to persuade the judge last year
that prosecutors had intentionally misled the court in their
request to wiretap Rajaratnam’s calls.  “It’s an uphill struggle, there’s no question about it,”
Stephen Miller, a former federal prosecutor, said. “It’s always
hard, once you have a judge making credibility findings of any
sort for the appellate court to review it, especially in a case
of this magnitude.”  Rajaratnam, 53, was found guilty of five counts of
conspiracy and nine counts of securities fraud on the jury’s
12th day of deliberations. The jurors returned the verdict after
hearing evidence that Rajaratnam engaged in a seven-year
conspiracy to trade on inside information from corporate
executives, bankers, consultants, traders and directors of
public companies including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  He gained
$63.8 million, prosecutors said.  Prosecutors said Rajaratnam faces a prison term of 15 1/2
years to 19 1/2 years when he is sentenced July 29. Rajaratnam
remains under home detention and electronic monitoring at his
Sutton Place residence in Manhattan pending sentencing.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Streeter argued unsuccessfully
to have Rajaratnam, who is free on a $100 million bond, taken
into custody after the verdict.  Dowd said he would appeal the use of wiretaps, telling U.S.
District Judge Richard Holwell that the matter was “very
substantial.”  Holwell, after holding a week-long hearing in October,
ruled that the wiretaps were admissible at trial. He concluded
prosecutors “made a glaring omission” by failing to disclose
to the judge who approved the government’s wiretap application
that civil regulators had been probing Rajaratnam for years. At
the same time, Holwell rejected a defense claim that prosecutors
had intentionally deceived that judge.  That finding regarding the government’s credibility “cuts
against success on appeal,” said Miller, the former prosecutor
who is now a partner at the law firm Cozen O’Connor LLP. Appeals
courts are more likely to reverse a judge’s decision based on a
legal argument than a factual finding based on the judge’s
conclusions, he said.  “You have a district court judge who made a finding and
made a credibility determination,” Miller said, saying an
appellate court doesn’t have that same luxury. “They know it
and they tend to defer to the trial judge.”  Dowd and representatives of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara didn’t immediately return calls after regular business
hours seeking comment on an appeal.  John Coffee, a Columbia University law professor, said the
government’s use of wiretap evidence against Rajaratnam makes
the risks of sharing illegal stock tips clear to traders.  “This is the first major case in a generation.” Coffee
said. “And quite frankly, professionals learn what is legal and
illegal based not on the law but on who goes to prison for
what.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more of this story, click here.  For a related story about insider trading cases, click
here.  Karunatilaka Pleads Guilty in Expert-Networking Insider Case  Manosha Karunatilaka, a former account manager at Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., pleaded guilty to his role in
an alleged insider-trading scheme involving expert-networking
firm  Primary Global Research LLC .  Primary Global “offered to pay me $200 per conversation”
with it and its clients, Karunatilaka, 37, told U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan yesterday. “I knew that some of
the information I was sharing was nonpublic and confidential to
TSMC.” He said he made a total of $35,000 from Primary Global
and didn’t tell Taiwan Semiconductor about his arrangement.  The guideline range for Karunatilaka’s sentence is 37 to 46
months, according to the plea agreement. The judge set
sentencing for Sept. 15.  “I’m here to take full responsibility for my actions,”
Karunatilaka, of Marlborough, Massachusetts, told Rakoff.  The biggest U.S. insider-trading probe became public in
2009 with the arrest of Galleon Group LLC hedge fund co-founder
Raj Rajaratnam, who was found guilty yesterday day by a jury in
the same courthouse where Karunatilaka entered his plea.  Karunatilaka, a U.S. citizen born in Sri Lanka, was
arrested Dec. 16. He pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy
to commit wire and securities fraud.  “My client is eager to put this behind him,”
Karunatilaka’s lawyer Brad Bailey said after the hearing. “He
came in with a willingness to admit his guilt and spare the
government the cost and expense of having a trial.” Bailey
declined to say whether Karunatilaka is cooperating with
prosecutors.  The case is U.S. v. Shimoon, 10-mj-2823, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Suit Dismissals Upheld on Appeal  Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and  Moody’s Corp. (MCO) 
won a federal appeals court ruling upholding their dismissals
from lawsuits seeking to hold them liable in the marketing of
mortgage-backed securities.  A three-judge panel of the New York-based court rejected
investor arguments that the ratings services effectively acted
as underwriters and “control persons” responsible for
misstatements and omissions in securities offerings.  “We reject these arguments as without merit,” the judges
said yesterday in a 42-page  ruling .  The panel upheld decisions by U.S. District Judge  Lewis
Kaplan  in New York to dismiss the lawsuits in February 2010.
Kaplan held that the companies didn’t fit a statutory definition
of “underwriter” by participating in the creation of the
securities. Nor did they have the “practical ability” to
direct the sellers’ actions, making them control persons, the
judge said.  From 2005 to 2007, the plaintiffs and others in similar
circumstances bought about $155 billion worth of mortgage pass-
through certificates registered with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, the appeals court said.  The ratings services allegedly exceeded their roles as risk
evaluators “by actively aiding in the structuring and
securitization process,” helping to determine certificate
structure and loan pool composition, the appeals court said.  The certificates’ AAA or investment-grade ratings allegedly
didn’t disclose their risk, it said.  Plaintiffs’ attorney Joel Laitman of Washington-based Cohen
Milstein Sellers & Toll Pllc didn’t immediately reply to a
voice-mail request for comment on the decision.  “Moody’s is pleased that the court has affirmed the
dismissal of these cases,” Michael Adler, a spokesman for the
New York-based ratings company, said in a telephone interview.
 Ed Sweeney , a spokesman for S&P, a unit of New York-based
McGraw-Hill Cos., said the ruling concluded that rating
companies “offer forward-looking opinions about credit risk and
cannot be sued as underwriters.” S&P is pleased with the
decision, he said.  The case is  In re Lehman Brothers Mortgage-Backed
Securities Litigation, 10-0712, 10-0898 and 10-1288, 2nd U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals (New York).  Mosaic Settles Shareholder Lawsuits Over Cargill Stake  Mosaic Co. (MOS) , North America’s second-largest fertilizer
producer, agreed to settle four shareholder lawsuits filed in
Delaware over Cargill Inc.’s plan to divest its $24 billion
stake in the company.  One of two Cargill directors must resign from Mosaic’s
board under the settlement, which resolves proposed class-action
lawsuits filed in February and March. Either Sergio Rial or
Emery Koenig will step down by Mosaic’s next annual meeting,
according to court papers. Mosaic, based in Plymouth, Minnesota,
and Cargill deny any wrongdoing.  The companies “are settling the action solely to avoid the
risk, burden and expense of further litigation,” they said in
papers filed May 9 in Delaware Chancery Court.  Cargill also will increase its reimbursement of Mosaic’s
expenses tied to the deal to $18 million from $15 million and
make additional disclosures, according to court papers.  A majority of Mosaic shareholders yesterday approved
Cargill’s plan to shed its 64 percent stake in the world’s
largest maker of phosphate fertilizer. The investors who sued
accused Minneapolis-based Cargill, the largest closely held U.S.
company, of gaining more valuable stock and increasing its
voting power through the sale.  The Mosaic split-off is intended to allow the estate of
Margaret A. Cargill, the late granddaughter of company founder
William Cargill, to sell its Cargill shares. Cargill will
exchange 179 million Mosaic shares for Cargill stock held by
Cargill investors. Another 107 million Mosaic shares will be
swapped for Cargill debt held by third parties.  The case is In Re The Mosaic Company Stockholder
Litigation, CA6228, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Ex-Credit Agricole Banker Has Discrimination Award Reduced  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , France’s third-biggest lender, won a
U.K. court bid to cut the 375,000 pounds ($617,250) in
compensation awarded to a  London  banker who was refused
promotion because of his British nationality.  An employment tribunal overestimated the financial loss
suffered by Michael Wardle, who worked at the bank’s Calyon unit
before taking a job at the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority
that paid less than the one he was denied, three judges at the
Court of Appeal ruled yesterday.  The former Global Head of Exotic Interest Rate Derivatives
Risk Management was awarded the compensation in 2010 after he
was fired for complaining that a French national was promoted
over him. Wardle, then on a salary of 104,000 pounds, was turned
down for a promotion that was set to start in January 2008,
according to the ruling. He was dismissed in July 2008 after he
alleged racial discrimination. The Employment Tribunal in London
found in his favor.  “In my view, it is reasonable to conclude that the
claimant would probably have been able to leave the FSA and
obtain an equivalent job by the end of June 2011,” Patrick
Elias, one of the judges, said in his part of the ruling.  After leaving Calyon, now known as Credit Agricole
Corporate and Investment Bank, Wardle found a job at the  FSA  for
105,000 pounds. The sum was less than what he would have been
paid if he had been promoted at Calyon, and had a bonus of 20
percent of salary, rather than 70 percent, according to court
documents.  Elias didn’t specify how much Wardle should be awarded. He
asked for written arguments from counsel to fix the sum.  Wardle’s law firm, Pritchard Englefield, and Credit
Agricole didn’t respond to messages seeking comment.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Google Sued by French Publishers for $14 Million Over Books  Google Inc. (GOOG)  was sued for 9.8 million euros ($14 million) by
three French publishers who said the search-engine company
scanned books without permission.  Editions Albin Michel SA, Editions Gallimard SA and
Flammarion claimed Google has scanned 9,797 copyright-protected
works for its digital library. The publishers are seeking
compensation of 10,000 euros per book, Google said yesterday.  “We have been working with French publishers for some time
to find ways to increase audiences and revenue opportunities for
publishers, authors and booksellers,” Google said in an e-
mailed statement. Google, based in Mountain View, California,
said it believes the Google Books project complies with French
law and international copyright rules.  Google reached an agreement six months ago with  Lagardere
SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Livre unit to allow the scanning of out-of-print
French books. A Paris court said in December 2009 that Google’s
book project violated French copyrights and ordered the company
to stop scanning works without permission. The company has
appealed.  Calls to the publishers for comment on the suit weren’t
immediately returned.  General Motors Retirees Sue Over Benefits After Bankruptcy  Dozens of  General Motors Co. (GM)  executive retirees sued the
company contending they suffered loss of benefits after the
automaker’s bankruptcy.  The pensioners, including former GM Vice President John G.
Middlebrook, are asking a judge to rule that the company
violated the federal Employee Retirement Income Security Act and
order it to pay past-due benefits with interest, plus legal fees
and expenses.  “In erroneously administering” the retirement plan, GM
“contravenes the plain text” of the contract, lawyers for the
executives said May 9 in a complaint filed in federal court in
Detroit. Denial of benefits “constitutes an abuse of the
discretion provided” in the plan, and is “arbitrary and
capricious,” the lawyers said.  GM, based in Detroit, filed the third-largest bankruptcy in
history in June 2009. The U.S. Treasury provided billions of
dollars in loans that converted into equity.  “Sacrifices were made by every stakeholder, including
former executives, to create a foundation upon which the new GM
can thrive,” James Cain, a company spokesman, said in a
telephone interview. He said the pension plan administrator
“properly considered and denied” the claims.  The case is Tate v. General Motors LLC, 2:11-cv-12028, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  JPMorgan Wins Bid to Have $112 Million CDO Case Heard in U.K.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-largest U.S. bank by
assets, won a challenge at the European Union’s highest court to
have a collateralized-debt obligation dispute over $112 million
dealt with by the U.K. courts.  Disputes of a contractual nature are mainly about questions
on a contract’s validity and this doesn’t justify having such
disputes heard in the country where one of the parties
challenging the validity of the contract is based, the  EU Court
of Justice  in Luxembourg ruled today.  The ruling relates to two cases at the Luxembourg-based EU
court over whether disputes between JPMorgan and the city of
Berlin’s transportation provider BVG about a 2007 derivatives
transaction should be heard in the U.K. or Germany. JPMorgan in
2008 sued BVG in the U.K., arguing the contract said any dispute
would be handled in British courts. BVG sued JPMorgan in Berlin
in 2009 seeking to annul what it called an invalid deal.  The decision may influence dozens of lawsuits over losses
on swap agreements between local governments and community-owned
utilities in the U.K., Germany and Italy on one hand, and banks
including  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Depfa Bank Plc on
the other. While municipalities are increasingly filing suits at
home claiming they weren’t properly advised of risks or that
swaps were unlawfully settled, the banks are turning to U.K.
courts where they expect to get swifter rulings.  Under the agreement that prompted today’s case, JPMorgan
was insured by BVG against default on debt tied to 150
companies, including  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  In 2008,
following Lehman’s collapse and the financial market turmoil it
spurred, New York-based JPMorgan enforced the agreement and is
seeking $112 million from BVG.  The case is C-144/10, Berliner Verkehrsbetriebe (BVG),
Anstalt des oeffentlichen Rechts v JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A.,
Frankfurt Branch.  U.K. FSA Targeting ‘Bigger Fry’ in Insider-Trade Probes  The U.K.’s  Financial Services Authority  will focus its
insider-trading investigations on senior London financial
workers as part of its deterrence strategy, the finance
watchdog’s acting enforcement chief said.  The FSA, which was set up in 1997 and prosecuted its first
criminal case of insider trading in 2008, is “determined to
take insider dealing enforcement right into the heart of the
city,” Tracey McDermott, acting head of enforcement at the FSA,
said in an interview in London yesterday, hours before Galleon
Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam was convicted in New York of
insider trading.  “We recognize the need to go after bigger fry, not because
they’re wealthy or high profile -- we want to go after the
people we actually think are causing the most damage to the
market,” said McDermott, who took over earlier this year from
Margaret Cole, who has gone on to lead another agency unit.  The FSA is imposing stricter supervision after being
criticized for failing to prevent the U.K.’s worst financial
crisis since the Second World War. The regulator in February
secured the longest-ever U.K. sentence for insider trading when
former Dresdner Kleinwort banker Christian Littlewood was
imprisoned for 40 months after admitting illegally trading over
a 10-year period, along with his wife and an accomplice.  For more, click here.  Picard’s $59 Billion Suit Uses ‘Novel’ Theory, UniCredit Says  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , a defendant in a $58.8 billion lawsuit by
the trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s firm, asked a judge
to consider whether the racketeering law invoked by the trustee
applies outside the U.S.  Trustee Irving Picard named the Italian bank in a December
bankruptcy-court suit against Bank Medici AG, its founder, Sonja
Kohn, and dozens of other parties in Austria and Italy. He
sought $19.6 billion for the conman’s investors, invoking the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act to triple the
amount. The claim is the largest of more than 1,000 filed by
Picard.  A district-court judge must address “the viability of the
unprecedented Rico claims asserted here,” Milan-based UniCredit
said in a court filing May 9, referring to the case as an
“Everest” among molehills. “The exorbitant claims will
require significant interpretation of what even the trustee must
concede is non-bankruptcy federal law.”  A U.S. District Court judge in Manhattan temporarily took
the case, along with one against  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , to decide
whether Picard can bring common-law claims such as unjust
enrichment and can sue on behalf of customers, since his job is
to liquidate the Madoff firm. UniCredit urged the judge to focus
on Rico as well.  A recent Supreme Court ruling “upended” historical tests
for extraterritorial application of U.S. law, UniCredit said.
That casts doubt on whether Picard can use Rico to reach “an
alleged enterprise existing almost wholly outside of the United
States and expressly directing its alleged conduct to persons
living abroad,” the bank said in its court filing.  According to Picard’s suit, Kohn ran a scheme centered on
Bank Medici, parts of which overlapped with Madoff’s own
fraudulent enterprise, delivering $9.1 billion into the Ponzi
scheme. The participants funneled $4 billion of the total
through feeder funds, he said.  Shortly before Madoff confessed, in December 2008, Kohn
withdrew $536 million from Madoff’s firm and took steps to hide
her connection to the money manager, according to Picard.  Kohn and UniCredit are fighting the suit.  The case is Picard v. Kohn, 10-5411,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  ESun Appeals Dismissal of $2.39 Billion Claim Over Casino  ESun Holdings Ltd. (571) , which planned to build a Macau casino
with Oaktree Capital Management LP and other investors, accused
directors of its joint venture partner of acting in bad faith
and lying, as the company sought to overturn the dismissal of a
claim against them.  Oaktree, Silver Point Capital LP, former  Las Vegas Sands
Corp. (LVS)  executive David Friedman and Singapore’s  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) 
are embroiled in a legal battle over the plan to develop Macao
Studio City, a $4 billion Macau casino complex, which was to
feature a Playboy mansion and a film studio. The dispute took on
new urgency after the Macau government said last year it may
take back undeveloped land it has granted to investors.  Benjamin Yu, a lawyer representing ESun unit East Asia
Satellite Television (Holdings) Ltd., said in Hong Kong’s Court
of Appeal today that directors of New Cotai, the investment
vehicle representing Friedman and the U.S. private equity firms,
made “misrepresentations” about a January 2009 letter from the
Macau government asking for more information about the project.  “The primary allegation is that they didn’t act in good
faith,” Yu said.  ESun sued Friedman, Oaktree, Silver Point, and six New
Cotai directors in 2009 for “systematically hindering” the
development of Macao Studio City in order to force a
renegotiation of the terms of their agreement, according to
court documents.  High Court Judge Anselmo Reyes in July dismissed ESun’s
$2.39 billion claim, calling it “untenable.” He allowed a
separate $88.6 million claim against the U.S. investors to
proceed.  At the first of two scheduled appeal hearing days, Yu said
today New Cotai directors “acted tortiously in inducing
breach” of their share purchase agreement, which required the
parties to cooperate in good faith in obtaining land grants from
the Macau government. The hearing continues tomorrow.  The U.S. investors alleged they were prevented from
developing and operating a casino on the site in part because
CapitaLand wanted to exercise a put option, or a right to sell
its stake in the project back to ESun, after the Hong Kong
company “misinformed” the developer about how much rent the
U.S. investors would be paying, according to a court filing.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  On the Docket  Allen Stanford Faces Sept. 12 Criminal Trial on Fraud Charges  Financier R. Allen Stanford is scheduled to go on trial
Sept. 12 in Houston on charges he led a $7 billion investor
fraud.  Stanford, 61, was indicted in June 2009 on 21 criminal
charges he misled investors about the safety and oversight of
certificates of deposit issued by his Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank Ltd. Last week, prosecutors re-indicted the
financier on narrower charges, dropping seven allegations.  Declaring that the superseding indictment contained “no
basic changes in the relevant counts,” U.S. District Judge
David Hittner signed an order May 10 setting Stanford’s trial to
start with jury selection in about four months.  Stanford, who denies all wrongdoing, has been imprisoned as
a flight risk since he was arrested almost two years ago. His
trial was to begin Jan. 24, until Hittner postponed the case to
allow Stanford to undergo drug rehabilitation in a prison
facility.  Hittner found Stanford mentally unfit to assist in his
defense as a result of an addiction to prescription anxiety
drugs he acquired while in prison. Stanford has been undergoing
detox treatment at the hospital unit at the federal prison in
Butner, North Carolina, since mid-February.  “Our client has been found incompetent and is currently
still in Butner,” Ali Fazel, one of Stanford’s criminal-defense
lawyers, said in a phone interview May 10. He declined to
comment further, citing the judge’s order not to discuss the
case publicly.  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, also
declined to comment, citing Hittner’s gag order.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  