-- 
Rajaratnam Gives Reasons to Be Glad Trial Ended: Susan Antilla

-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 
2011-05-12T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/rajaratnam-and-reasons-to-be-glad-trial-ended-commentary-by-susan-antilla.html
What a shock. Raj is guilty.  When you’ve got a trove of incriminating wiretaps and
enough plea-copping associates of the defendant to populate a
couple of baseball teams, it isn’t a surprise that a New York
jury would convict the billionaire co-founder of the hedge fund
Galleon Group LLC.  On Wednesday, a jury said  Raj Rajaratnam  was guilty of 14
counts of conspiracy and securities fraud in an insider trading
trial that lasted two months. He faces 15 ½ to 19 ½  years in
prison when he is sentenced July 29, though his potty-mouthed
lawyer,  John Dowd , said he intends to appeal.  So the government got its bad guy. The cooperating
witnesses are steering the Feds to more cheaters. Hedge fund
guys are dusting off their “How To Pick Stocks Without Using
Inside Information” textbooks from their days in business
school. All in all, good news, I suppose, but the even better
news is that the Rajaratnam show is over. Here are 10 reasons
you should be glad:  No. 10. We can all drop the pretense that we’d ever heard
of Galleon. Come on, tell the truth. Unless you work in finance,
had you ever heard of Rajaratnam or his New York-based fund? At
least  Ivan Boesky  was famous for that outrageous “greed is
healthy” speech to students at the  University of California  at
Berkeley.  No. 9. Speaking of Boesky, be grateful for this: we’ve
picked up another big insider-trading crook to add to our
repertoire of white-collar-crime small talk for cocktail
parties. Like Ivan himself, the Boesky story long ago had grown
whiskers.  No. 8.  Bernie Madoff  won’t be the only big Wall Street fish
in the pokey. This will benefit society in many ways, not the
least of which will be that reporters who didn’t get a chance to
land the initial jailhouse interviews with Madoff will have a
shot at redeeming themselves with a tell-all session with
Rajaratnam.  No. 7. Rajaratnam’s lawyer will have time for anger-
management class. Dowd, 69, looked a little unseemly in a CNBC
video just after the trial when a cameraman asked if he had
anything to say, and responded “Get the (f-bomb) out of here,
that’s what I’ve got for CNBC.”  No. 6. Rajaratnam could flee from house arrest at his
apartment on  New York ’s swanky Sutton Place, setting off a
manhunt that might offer a lot more intrigue than the trial.  No. 5. It will help the economy. Reporters will be booking
flights, renting cars, and staying in hotels, as they tool
around the country to visit prisons for the predictable stories
about the amenities available at federal prisons, speculating
over which one might turn out to be Rajaratnam’s new home.
Securities lawyers will drum up business from hedge funds
terrified of getting caught doing what Rajaratnam did.  New York
City  and Greenwich,  Connecticut , restaurants will boom as hedge
fund guys meet in person to swap tips lest their phones be
tapped.  No. 4. Wharton can add another case study of an alum gone
bad when it teaches students how to know when they’re shifting
from ethical dilemma to flat-out criminality. Already, the
school counts  Michael Milken  and two of Rajaratnam’s college
pals who pleaded guilty among its graduates.  No. 3. Judge Richard J. Holwell, who presided over the
trial, showed real promise for a lucrative new career in
securities arbitration, where meetings are secret and documents
are confidential. Holwell ushered lawyers out of the courtroom
for sidebar meetings, sealed transcripts of private sidebars,
and admonished the jury to keep its deliberations secret.  No. 2. Wall Street brass can begin the healing process
from the trial’s big ego jolt. Only eight jurors had even heard
of the billionaire defendant when the judge interviewed a room
of 40 potential jurors. None had ever heard of  Lloyd Blankfein ,
head of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., but then again, the judge
didn’t even know how to pronounce Blankfein’s last name.  No 1. Best of all, maybe prosecutors will have time now to
pursue all those less important criminals who almost destroyed
the economy a couple years ago. Yeah, we’ve heard the spiel: the
cases are too difficult, the insider traders deserve attention
because they threaten the integrity of the markets, and making
lousy bets with other people’s money isn’t a crime. But I’m
holding out hope that maybe a prosecutor will get an indictment
or two against the cheaters who caused your Aunt Matilda to
relocate from her cute house with the window boxes to a one-room
dump in the senior citizen housing project.  Really, isn’t it time that some big-bank bosses got the
kind of voicemail from the feds that Rajaratnam did?  “See you
in court.”  ( Susan Antilla  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Susan Antilla in New York at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  