-- 
Rand Tumbles to Lowest in Seven Weeks to Dollar on Metal Prices, China

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-05-12T16:23:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/rand-tumbles-to-lowest-in-seven-weeks-to-dollar-on-risk-aversion-greece.html
The rand tumbled to its lowest in
seven weeks as commodity prices slumped after  China  raised
banks’ reserve requirements to control inflation, heightening
concern growth of the second-biggest national economy may slow.  South Africa ’s currency slumped as much as 1.1 percent to
6.9660 per dollar, the weakest since March 21, and traded down
0.1 percent at 6.8881 per dollar at 5:57 p.m. in Johannesburg,
bringing its drop this week to 2.7 percent, the worst
performance out of more than 20 emerging-market currencies. It
slipped 0.5 percent to 9.8500 per euro.  South Africa’s benchmark stock index retreated 1.2 percent,
led by mining companies including Anglo American Plc and BHP
Billiton Ltd., as the price of gold and platinum declined for a
second day and copper fell to a five-month low. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials sank as much as 2.6
percent after dropping 3.9 percent yesterday.  “Given that equity markets and commodity prices are still
declining, we believe that the bias remains in favor of extended
rand weakness,”  Michael Keenan , a Johannesburg-based analyst at
Standard Bank Group Ltd., wrote in a research note.  Reserve ratios will rise 0.5 percentage point from May 18,
the People’s Bank of China said on its website today. It’s the
fifth increase this year aimed at cooling inflation. China is
the biggest importer of South African raw materials, according
to the  Department of Trade and Industry .  The rand pared its decline after Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus said the central bank would be “very vigilant and
closely monitor” inflation, fueling speculation the bank will
lift borrowing costs this year. The Pretoria-based central bank
left its benchmark repo rate unchanged at 5.5 percent today.  Target  The central bank expects inflation to breach the upper
range of its 3 percent to 6 percent target range in the fourth
quarter, peaking at 6.3 percent in the first quarter of 2012,
Marcus said in a televised address from  Pretoria . A rate
increase was “not appropriate” at present, she said. The bank
is “concerned about the way things are going” and the chances
of inflation accelerating are “to the upside,” she said.  “The deteriorated inflation outlook makes an interest-rate
hike this year more likely,” Kgotso Radira, a Johannesburg-
based analyst at Investec Ltd., South Africa’s largest
independent money manager. Investec expects the central bank to
raise the repo rate by 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage point,
in November.  Four-year  government bonds  decreased on concern rising
inflation will erode real returns on fixed-interest debt. The
13.5 percent notes due September 2015 slipped 4 cents to 121.26
rand, boosting the yield one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 7.63 percent, from as low as 7.58 before the MPC
statement.  “We expect South African bonds to react adversely,”  Razia Khan , an analyst at Standard Chartered Bank in  London , said in a
note. “The  bond market  has been too complacent” about
inflation risks, she added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town Nef at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Kirkland at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net  