-- 
RBA Set for Longest Rates Pause Since 2007 as Jobs Slump: Australia Credit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-05-13T07:09:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/rba-set-for-longest-rates-pause-since-2007-as-jobs-slump-australia-credit.html
Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor
Glenn Stevens is poised to keep borrowing costs unchanged for
the longest stretch since 2007 after the nation’s record job
growth slowed, money markets indicate.  The yield on June interbank cash futures dropped 2.5 basis
points to 4.78 percent on the Sydney Futures exchange yesterday,
matching the biggest fall in almost two months. It rose 0.5
basis point today, implying an 86 percent chance Stevens will
keep the overnight cash rate target at 4.75 percent for a sixth
meeting, the longest he has stood pat since a seven-meeting
pause in 2007. Yesterday’s report showed the weakest January-to-
April employment growth since 1999.  Stevens has scope to pause as retail sales weaken after
household savings reached what the RBA calls a two-decade high
and the currency’s surge to a record curbs tourism and
manufacturing, giving mining greater capacity to expand. The
RBA’s 175 basis points of rate increases from October 2009 to
November 2010 has helped shield the economy from global
inflation pressures that are spurring Asian and European policy
makers to tighten.  “The jobs report throws an extra element of uncertainty
into the equation and, combined with the soft retail sales
number, suggests that the RBA is likely to just sit and watch a
little bit longer,” said Adam Donaldson, Melbourne-based head
of debt research at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s
largest lender. “The chance of a move in June has receded.”  The RBA will add a percentage point to borrowing costs in
four steps, Commonwealth Bank predicts, starting in August and
ending in the second quarter of next year.  Contrary Predictions  Commonwealth Bank is among 15 of 24 institutions surveyed
by Bloomberg News forecasting the RBA will extend its pause next
month. It is the only one of Australia’s four major banks to
predict no change.  Economists at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,  National Australia
Bank Ltd. (NAB)  and  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  say
that the central bank will increase rates by a quarter
percentage point to 5 percent on June 7.  Data yesterday showed Australian employers shed 22,100
workers in April, the most since 2009, including 49,100 full-
time jobs, the most in two years. The jobless rate held at 4.9
percent, and the  labor force  as a percentage of the working-age
population -- the participation rate -- fell to 65.6 percent
from 65.8 percent.  Household Spending  Household spending accounts for 54 percent of Australia’s
economy and a government report last week showed retail sales
unexpectedly fell 0.5 percent in March, the first decline in
five months, and sales adjusted to remove inflation stagnated in
the three months through March from the previous quarter.  Employment rose 22,900 in Queensland and  Western Australia ,
states that are the biggest participants in the largest mining-
investment boom in the country’s history, yesterday’s report
showed. In contrast, the number of jobs in New South Wales,
Australia’s most populous state, fell 44,000, its biggest
decline since 1992.  Last month’s drop in total jobs brings to 26,300 the number
of net new positions created in the first four months of the
year, the weakest start to a year since 1999.  Australia  created
362,300 jobs in 2010, exceeding the previous record of 339,100
set in 2006.  Government bonds  have returned 2.7 percent this year,
including reinvested interest, offering gains for four straight
months, beating the 1.5 percent profit on U.S. Treasuries, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Australian Debt  The benchmark 10-year Australian government bond yield fell
to 5.37 percent as of 5 p.m. in Sydney from 5.43 percent on
April 29, extending four months of declines, the longest stretch
since December 2008. The premium offered over similar-maturity
Treasuries shrank to 215 basis points, down from this year’s
high of 230 on Jan. 7.  The yield differential will likely fall to less than 200
basis points by year-end as Australian bonds outperform their
U.S. counterparts, said Donaldson at the Commonwealth Bank.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest mutual fund at
 Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management Co.
Gross said May 3 investors should prefer Australian and Canadian
debt and shun Treasuries amid inflation risks.  Demand for Australian assets has spurred a 19 percent
advance in the country’s dollar over the past year to $1.0672.
It reached $1.1012 on May 2, the strongest since the currency
was freely floated in 1983.  Department Stores  The record-high Aussie dollar is driving consumers to
purchase cheaper goods over the Internet, hurting domestic
retailers, Patrick Elliott, chairman of  JB Hi-Fi Ltd. (JBH)  said April
3. The advance in the household savings rate, which reached 9.7
percent at the end of last year from 1.5 percent three years
earlier, is further crimping profits.  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR)  and  David Jones Ltd. (DJS) , Australia’s
biggest department store chains, on May 11 reported declines in
quarterly sales.  Melbourne-based Myer’s sales fell 2 percent to A$657
million ($696 million) in the three months ended April 30, and
Sydney-based  David Jones , the second-largest chain, posted a 1.4
percent drop in revenue to A$411.7 million in the same period.  Budget Surplus  Further weighing on consumers, the government said this
week it will end 23 years of spending growth to ease inflation
from the mining boom and support the return to a  budget surplus .  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s administration is trying to
reduce the need for higher borrowing costs for consumers and
businesses after the central bank said last week that an advance
in rates will likely be needed “at some point” to contain
inflation.  The RBA’s rate increases over the past two years contrast
with the U.S. Federal Reserve, which has held its benchmark rate
near zero since December 2008.  Australia’s central bank said in its May 6 quarterly policy
statement that “most leading indicators point to further growth
in employment over the months ahead, although at a slower pace
than in 2010.” It also predicted the jobless rate would fall to
4.25 percent by December 2013.  Tony Morriss , head of interest-rates research in Sydney at
ANZ, said it’s too soon to rule out a rate rise next month
because government reports due this month on first-quarter wages
and private  capital expenditures  will give RBA officials a
better reading on the economy’s health.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  