-- 
Treasuries Extend Declines After Auction of $16 Billion of 30-Year Bonds

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-05-12T21:20:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/treasuries-extend-declines-after-auction-of-16-billion-of-30-year-bonds.html
Treasuries fell after the
government’s auction of $16 billion in 30-year bonds drew the
lowest demand in six months amid an easing of  risk aversion .  The bonds attracted $2.43 in bids for every $1 of debt
sold, the lowest bid-to-cover ratio since November, and down
from an average of $2.70 at the past 10 sales. The bonds were
sold at a yield of 4.38 percent, compared with an average
forecast of 4.343 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of eight of
the  Federal Reserve ’s 20 primary dealers. The offering was the
final of three auctions this week totaling $72 billion.  “It’s risk-on, risk-off one day to the next,” said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ
Securities USA Inc. “The auction was not as well attended as
people expected. People are hesitant and a little gun-shy.”  The benchmark 30-year bond yield rose four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 4.35 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield touched
4.25 percent on May 5, the lowest level since Dec. 7, after
rising to 4.79 percent on Feb. 9.  The 30-year yield will rise to 4.9 percent by year-end,
according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
financial companies, with the most recent forecasts given the
heaviest weightings.  Risk Reverses  U.S. stocks and commodities advanced, as riskier assets
recovered from an early slump amid speculation that recent
declines were excessive. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose
0.5 percent, after dropping as much as 0.8 percent. The S&P GSCI
Index of commodities climbed 0.1 percent after tumbling as much
as 2.3 percent.  At the bond auction, indirect bidders, a class of investors
that includes foreign central banks, bought 33 percent of the
securities, compared with 47.2 percent at the April auction and
an average for the past 10 auctions is 40.9 percent.  “Indirect bidders showed up less and it was a bigger
auction,” said  Ray Remy , head of fixed income in New York at
primary dealer Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc. “The Wall
Street community, the primary dealers, bought more than they
normally would.”  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 8.7 percent,
compared with 10.8 percent at the last sale and an average of
10.9 percent at the past 10 auctions.  Jobless Claims  Treasuries rose earlier as the number of Americans filing
first-time claims for unemployment insurance payments fell less
than forecast last week, indicating recovery in the labor market
is taking time to accelerate.  Applications for jobless benefits decreased 44,000 in the
week ended May 7 to 434,000, Labor Department figures showed.
Economists forecast 430,000 claims, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The number of people on
unemployment benefit rolls rose, while those getting extended
payments decreased.  A separate report today showed sales at U.S. retailers rose
in April, reflecting gains at service stations and grocery
stores as fuel and food prices climbed. The 0.5 percent increase
was the smallest since July and followed a 0.9 percent March
gain that was more than double the previous estimate, Commerce
Department figures showed. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 0.6 percent rise.  “The consumer is still in the game,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading at Bank of Nova Scotia in New
York. “It’s not telling you the consumer is retrenching or
buying everything off the shelf.”  Wholesale costs in the U.S. rose more than forecast in
April, led by higher prices for food and fuel.  Inflation  The 0.8 percent increase in the producer-price index
compares with the 0.6 percent median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, Labor Department figures showed
today in  Washington . The so-called core measure, which excludes
volatile food and energy costs, increased 0.3 percent, more than
projected.  A report tomorrow is forecast to show the  consumer price
index  rose by 0.4 percent in April, compared with a rise of 0.5
percent in the previous month, according to 76 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  The difference between the yields on 10-year debt and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt,
narrowed to 2.39 percentage points today, the lowest since March
24, signaling investors expect inflation to remain tamed. It
reached a 3-year high of 2.67 percentage points on April 11. The
average over the past decade is 2.10 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  