-- 
Treasury Said to Decide Against GM Stock Sale Before August as Shares Fall

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-05-12T20:59:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/treasury-said-to-decide-against-gm-stock-sale-before-august-as-shares-fall.html
The U.S. Treasury Department has
opted to hold off on selling more shares in  General Motors Co. (GM) 
until after July as it waits for the stock to climb, said two
people familiar with the decision.  The Treasury, which owns 33 percent of GM, can file as soon
as May 22 for a secondary offering. Such a process requires a
lengthy review by the Securities and Exchange Commission, so the
department will wait until it can use an S-3 filing as soon as
July 1 that allows for shares to be sold more quickly, said the
people, who asked not to be identified revealing private plans.  Treasury officials decided to wait because the stock has
traded below the $33 per-share initial public offering price.
While the company beat earnings expectations on May 5, the stock
fell 3.1 percent that day. The lower stock price affirmed
Treasury’s decision that it would be better to wait until the
second-quarter profit is announced, the people said.  “The longer they wait, the better the return for the
Treasury will be and for the taxpayer,” said Dennis Virag,
president of Automotive Consulting Group in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan .
“The auto market in the U.S. is recovering, and it’s a fairly
consistent recovery. For every quarter delay in Treasury selling
back shares, GM will be in a better financial position.”  GM rose 12 cents to $31.42 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  Losses Expected  GM management and the Obama administration want to end the
nearly two-year period of government ownership, the people said.
The Treasury Department doesn’t expect to get the $44 average
share price needed to break even on the $49.5 billion
investment, they said. Further share sales need to average $53 a
share to make up for the $33 per-share IPO price.  The Treasury provided $85 billion of commitments to the
 auto industry , which included $64 billion to GM and Chrysler
Group LLC, according to the  Congressional Budget Office . The
remaining assistance was provided to finance arms GMAC Inc. and
Chrysler Financial Corp. and auto-parts suppliers. GMAC is now
known as Ally Financial Inc.  “We’re going to lose money in the auto industry on net,
but we did this for the jobs we were going to save, not to
maximize return,” Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said
at a Detroit Economic Club event on April 28. “We’re not a
private investor. Our job was to protect the country.”  Treasury aims to get at least the $33 IPO price and perhaps
sell shares in the high $30s or into the $40 range, where most
analysts have set their target price, the people said. It also
wants to begin selling shares this year, they said.  July Filing  The Treasury can file an S-3 as soon as July 1, allowing
the department to sell whenever the market bears the best price,
the people said.  Treasury would then wait for GM to announce a second-
quarter profit, meaning the U.S. could sell in the August to
September time frame or wait until November, after third-quarter
results are known, the people said.  Government ownership is weighing down GM shares, said David Whiston, an analyst with Chicago-based investment-research firm
Morningstar Inc.  “A portfolio manager who believes the GM story may stay on
the sidelines because when Treasury files to sell, the stock
could sink,” he said in a telephone interview. “Other
investors don’t want to invest simply because there is
government ownership.”  Akerson Buys Shares  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson bought $939,900 in
shares of the automaker, GM disclosed today in a regulatory
filing. The purchase of 30,000 shares at $31.33 apiece was a
personal investment by Akerson, said Jim Cain, a GM spokesman.  A JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst,  Himanshu Patel , wrote a
research report on May 6 suggesting that GM use its cash
reserves to buy back shares from the U.S. The Treasury doesn’t
plan to do that, the people said.  The administration would take too much criticism if it sold
shares to GM at a loss, so officials would rather sell the
shares in the open market, the people said.  “What Treasury does with their GM shares is entirely up to
them,” said Jim Cain, a GM spokesman. “We’re focused on
growing profitably around the world, further strengthening our
balance sheet and fully funding our  pension plan .”  The New York Times reported earlier that the share sale
would be delayed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  