-- 
Treasury 30-Year Yields Near 6-Month Low; Equities Fall on China Concern

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-05-12T09:38:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/treasury-yields-approach-this-year-s-low-as-stocks-slide-spurs-safety-bid.html
Treasury 30-year bond yields
approached the lowest level this year as Asian stocks declined
amid concern China will further tighten  monetary policy  to slow
growth, boosting demand for the relative safety of U.S. debt.  Investors cut bets on inflation for a fifth week, the
longest run since credit markets froze in October 2008, yields
indicate.  Fidelity Investments , the fund company that oversees
$1.64 trillion, said Treasuries should be a “core component”
of investor portfolios as inflation is low. The U.S. will today
sell $16 billion of 30-year bonds, the securities most sensitive
to costs in the economy because of their long maturity.  “Treasuries are supported by the general market angst
about falling equities and concern over the U.S. economy,” said
 Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument Securities
Ltd. in London. “Today’s 30-year auction will be a reasonable
test for the markets, given the low yield levels we’re at.”  Thirty-year bonds yielded 4.29 percent as of 10:22 a.m. in
 London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 4.75
percent security due in February 2041 rose 6/32, or $1.88 per
$1,000 face amount to 107 20/32. The yield fell five basis
points yesterday. It reached 4.25 percent on May 5, the lowest
since Dec. 7.  The 10-year note yield was at 3.18 percent. It fell to 3.13
percent on May 6, the least since Dec. 8.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares declined 1.5 percent,
snapping a three-day gain. Futures contracts on the Standard and
Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.5 percent, extending yesterday’s 1.1
percent drop.  Inflation Gauge  The difference between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the debt, shrank to 2.42
percentage points from 2.67 percentage points on April 11, the
widest in three years.  A five-week narrowing in the spread would be the longest
since the global recession of 2008 caused inflation expectations
to plunge.  Treasury yields may stay low because inflation is in check,
according to Boston-based Fidelity.  Investors who are “neutral” on U.S. debt should have
about 30 percent of their bond portfolio in Treasuries, Claus te Wildt, a senior vice president and researcher at the company,
wrote in a  report  yesterday on its website. The recommendation
contrasts with  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond
fund at Pacific Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,
 California , and is betting against America’s sovereign debt.  “Everybody seems to dislike U.S. Treasuries right now,”
te Wildt wrote. “ Interest rates  could stay low for quite some
time due to a lack of inflation. Treasuries should remain a core
component of a diversified portfolio.”  Chinese Wealth Fund  Consumer prices in China rose 5.3 percent from a year
earlier and banks extended 740 billion yuan ($114 billion) of
local-currency loans, according to reports yesterday from the
statistics bureau and central bank.  Inflation is “the most pressing problem” facing the
world’s second-biggest economy, Vice Premier Wang Qishan said
this week. Monetary policy will remain “prudent” and focus on
removing “inflationary monetary elements,” Chinese officials
said in a statement in Washington after talks with the U.S.  Treasuries are a safe investment, Lawrence Lau, chairman of
CIC International ( Hong Kong ) Co.,  China ’s sovereign wealth
fund, said at a briefing in Beijing today. China is America’s
largest creditor, holding $1.15 trillion of the $9.14 trillion
in publicly traded debt.  30-Year Sale  The 30-year Treasuries being sold today yielded 4.31
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 4.531 percent at
the previous offering on April 14.  Investors bid for 2.83 times the amount of debt offered
last month, versus an average of 2.7 for the past 10 sales.
Indirect bidders, the investor group that includes foreign
central banks, bought 47.2 percent, versus the 10-auction
average of 40.9 percent.  The Treasury auctioned $24 billion of 10-year notes
yesterday and $32 billion of three-year debt the day before.
This week’s sales all raise new cash rather than replacing
maturing securities.  The  U.S. economy  is strong enough to send 10-year yields to
at least 5 percent in the years ahead, Torsten Slok and  Peter Hooper , economists at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in  New York ,
wrote in a report yesterday.  Retail Sales  The  Federal Reserve  will raise its target for overnight
bank lending to 4 percent in the next few years, from the
current rage of zero to 0.25 percent, according to Deutsche
Bank, one of the 20 primary dealers authorized to trade directly
with the central bank.  Retail sales climbed 0.6 percent in April, following a 0.4
percent increase in March, based on a Bloomberg News survey
before the Commerce Department report today. Other data will
show fewer workers filed claims for jobless benefits, and
producer prices rose, according to separate surveys.  The 10-year yield will rise to 3.91 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of financial companies with the
most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  U.S. debt  posted the best returns in eight months in April,
gaining 1.15 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. Treasuries have returned 0.71 percent so far in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  