-- 
Treasuries Fluctuate Before a $16 Billion 30-Year U.S. Securities Auction

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-05-12T15:36:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/treasuries-gain-as-jobless-claims-reflect-slow-pace-for-employment-growth.html
Treasuries fluctuated as the U.S.
prepared to sell $16 billion of 30-year securities in the last
of three note and bond auctions this week totaling $72 billion.  U.S. debt  pared earlier gains as sales at retailers rose in
April and the March gain was revised higher. Treasury five-year
note yields earlier touched the lowest level since March on
concern  China  will take further action to contain inflation by
slowing growth, pushing global equities down.  “The market is taking a pause in front of the bond
auction,” said  Richard Bryant , head of Treasury trading in New
York at MF Global Holdings Ltd., one of 20 primary dealers that
trade Treasuries with the  Federal Reserve . “The market’s come a
long way, so it’s possible we’ll need a concession.”  The yield on the 30-year bond was little changed at 4.31
percent at 11:33 a.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices, after touching as low as 4.28 percent. The 4.75
percent security maturing in February 2041 was at 107 11/32.
Ten-year note yields were little changed at 3.19 percent.  The Federal Reserve purchased $6.1 billion in Treasuries
maturing from November 2013 to April 2015 today.  The 30-year bond being sold today yielded 4.32 percent in
pre-auction trading, compared with 4.531 percent at the previous
offering on April 14.  Bid Trends  Investors bid for 2.83 times the amount of debt offered
last month, versus an average of 2.70 for the past 10 sales.
Indirect bidders, the investor group that includes foreign
central banks, bought 47.2 percent, versus the 10-auction
average of 40.9 percent.  The 30-year yield will rise to 4.9 percent by year-end,
according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
financial companies, with the most recent forecasts given the
heaviest weightings.  The Treasury auctioned $24 billion of 10-year notes
yesterday at a yield of 3.21 percent and $32 billion of three-
year debt the day before at 1 percent. This week’s sales raise
all new cash rather than partially replacing maturing
securities.  U.S. debt posted the best returns in April since August,
gaining 1.2 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. Treasuries have returned 0.7 percent in May.  ‘Bubbly’ Notes  The rally in  U.S. government debt  has pushed 10-year notes
to “bubbly” levels amid an economy that shows signs of
recovery and rising inflation, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  The 10-year Treasury yield will face upward pressure as the
Federal Reserve sheds $1.5 trillion in securities accumulated
under two rounds of quantitative easing, which may boost the
benchmark rate by 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage point,
economists  Peter Hooper ,  Thomas Mayer ,  Michael Spencer  and
Torsten Slok wrote in a report to clients published yesterday.  Sales at U.S. retailers April reflected gains at service
stations and grocery stores as fuel and food prices climbed.  The 0.5 percent increase was the smallest since July and
followed a 0.9 percent March gain that was more than double the
previous estimate, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 0.6 percent rise. Sales excluding
automobiles and gasoline increased 0.2 percent.  Game On  “The consumer is still in the game,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading at Bank of Nova Scotia in New
York. It’s not telling you the consumer is retrenching or buying
everything off the shelf.”  Wholesale costs in the U.S. rose more than forecast in
April, led by higher prices for food and fuel.  The 0.8 percent increase in the producer-price index
compares with the 0.6 percent median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, Labor Department figures showed
today in Washington. The so-called core measure, which excludes
volatile food and energy costs, increased 0.3 percent, more than
projected.  Fed Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said the
U.S. economic recovery is nearing a point where the central bank
should begin pulling back record stimulus.  “If the economy continues to make progress, then monetary
policy will need to exit from its extraordinary accommodation in
the not-too-distant future,” Plosser said today in remarks
prepared for a speech in Aventura,  Florida .  The number of Americans filing first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments fell less than forecast last
week, indicating recovery in the labor market is taking time to
accelerate.  Applications for jobless benefits decreased 44,000 in the
week ended May 7 to 434,000, Labor Department figures showed
today. Economists forecast 430,000 claims, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The number of people
on unemployment benefit rolls rose, while those getting extended
payments decreased.  “It’s not a healthy number for the economy,” said Thomas di Galoma, managing director of U.S. government securities in
New York at Oppenheimer & Co., the regional broker-dealer unit
of Oppenheimer Holdings. “It’s showing weakness.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  