-- 
Repsol First-Quarter Profit Beats Expectations on Oil Prices

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-05-12T15:59:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/repsol-first-quarter-profit-beats-expectations-on-oil-prices-2-.html
Repsol YPF SA (REP) , Spain’s biggest  oil
company , said first-quarter profit rose 29 percent, beating
analyst estimates, after crude prices climbed and earnings
increased at its liquefied natural gas unit.  Profit adjusted to exclude inventories and one-time items
climbed to 654 million euros ($929 million) from 508 million
euros a year earlier, the Madrid-based company said today in a
filing. That compares with the 553 million-euro mean estimate in
a Bloomberg analyst survey. Recurring operating profit at the
LNG division more than tripled to 115 million euros.  The Spanish oil company is a shareholder in the Peru LNG
plant, which started operating in June. Repsol is also investing
in exploration in  Brazil ’s offshore  Santos Basin  and elsewhere
to increase output while seeking to reduce stakes in mature
fields in  Argentina .  “We are in a privileged situation to undertake new growth
projects and continue our geographical diversification policy,”
Chief Executive Officer Antonio Brufau said in an e-mailed
statement.  Repsol shares have climbed 9.9 percent this year, valuing
the company at 28 billion euros. The stock slipped 0.8 percent
to close at 22.905 euros in  Madrid  today.  The International Energy Agency today trimmed its 2011 oil
demand growth forecast for the first time as this year’s price
rally begins to weigh on consumption. The Stoxx 600 Oil & Gas
Index dropped 1.7 percent.  Besides exploration, the company is spending to improve
refining margins and new units at its refineries in Bilbao and
Cartagena will start operating at the end of 2011. The refining
margin indicator for  Spain , a measurement of the profit from
turning crude into fuels, was at $2.10 a barrel in the first
quarter, unchanged from a year earlier, Repsol said.  Higher Oil  Brent  oil prices  were 38 percent higher in the quarter than
a year earlier, Repsol said.  Oil and gas production at Repsol’s upstream division, which
doesn’t include the Argentine unit YPF, fell 7.4 percent from a
year earlier to 324,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in the
first quarter on lower output from the Shenzi field in the  Gulf
of Mexico  and after operations were halted in Libya. Repsol on
Feb. 22 said it suspended its exploration and production
operations in  Libya , following the uprising in  Africa ’s third-
biggest oil-producing country. The unrest in Libya will
“clearly” impact earnings at Repsol,Brufau said on Feb. 24.  Mature Fields  Output from Buenos Aires-based YPF fell 4.7 percent to
524,000 barrels a day as mature fields declined and as workers’
strikes in December affected drilling plans. Repsol has been
seeking to sell part of its stake in YPF and aims to keep at
least 51 percent. In 2008 Repsol delayed a public offering of a
stake in YPF.  Argentina ’s billionaire Eskenazi family earlier this month
said it’s paying $1.3 billion to boost its stake in YPF to about
25 percent. The $1.3 billion price was set when the family’s
closely held Petersen Group bought about 15 percent of YPF in
2008, with the option to raise the holding to 25 percent by next
April. The sale reduces Repsol’s stake in YPF to 58 percent.  Repsol also approved the sale of an additional 3 percent of
YPF in an offering on the Buenos Aires stock exchange, a YPF
official said on May 4. The company expects to sell the stake to
Argentine investors before August, Chief Operating Officer
Miguel Martinez said on a conference call today. He reaffirmed
that Repsol plans to keep a majority stake in YPF.  The Spanish company expects to receive the proceeds from
the sale of the YPF stake to the Petersen Group next week and
will consider investing in other upstream assets after reducing
its holding in the Argentine unit, Martinez said.  YPF on May 10 said it discovered the equivalent of about
150 million barrels of shale oil at a field in southern
Patagonia, Argentina’s largest discovery in two decades. YPF
found 4.5 trillion cubic feet of unconventional natural gas in
the same area in December.  Repsol forecasts annual production growth of as much as 4
percent through 2014 as projects in  Brazil  and  Peru  start
production. Repsol plans to invest 28 billion euros in the
period 2010 to 2014, developing fields in Venezuela, Bolivia and
 Algeria . It will invest about 6 billion euros this year and its
drilling plan for 2011 includes 25 to 30 exploration and
evaluation wells, Repsol said in a Feb. 24 presentation.  Martinez said today that Repsol plans to start drilling for
crude offshore Cuba in the fourth quarter. The company also
plans to drill wells in Angolan blocks in 2013, he said.  Repsol’s reserve replacement ratio rose to 131 percent last
year from 94 percent in 2009. The company has estimated a ratio
of more than 110 percent in the next five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  