-- 
House Passes Bill to Add U.S. Areas for Offshore Drilling

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-05-12T19:39:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/republican-led-house-passes-bill-adding-u-s-offshore-oil-drilling-areas.html
The Republican-controlled U.S. House
passed legislation to open areas to oil drilling along the
Atlantic,  Southern California  and Alaska coasts, the third bill
approved to boost output as gasoline prices reach $4 a gallon.  The legislation was approved by a 243-179  vote , with 21
Democrats in favor, hours after oil company executives appeared
at a Senate hearing to defend $21 billion in tax breaks that
Democrats want to repeal to reduce the federal deficit.  Republicans have focused on expanding offshore production
to lower gas prices. The House bill would require the U.S. to
increase production goals to 3 million barrels of oil a day by
2027, and open areas now off-limits to oil and gas companies.  “Even in the face of rising gasoline prices, the president
wants to drill nowhere new,” Representative Don Young, an
Alaskan Republican, said when debate on the measure began
yesterday. “This bill says: ‘Let’s move forward with leasing
and drilling in those areas where we know America has real and
significant resources.’”  Congress let a drilling ban along much of the outer
continental shelf expire in 2008 after gas prices exceeded $4 a
gallon. President  Barack Obama  said in March 2010 that he
supported expanding offshore drilling. He withdrew the plan
after an explosion 20 days later aboard the Deepwater Horizon
rig in the Gulf of Mexico killed 11 workers and triggered the  BP
Plc (BP/)  spill, the worst in U.S. waters.  Safety Reforms  Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat,
said Congress should pass safety reforms in response to the
spill. Residents in states where offshore drilling would be
allowed “don’t want oil coming in the way it did in the Gulf of
Mexico,” he said yesterday.  The House has now passed three measures aimed at expanding
U.S. oil and gas production. Lawmakers last week passed a bill
requiring lease sales in parts of the  Gulf of Mexico  and off of
Virginia’s coastline. Yesterday, it passed legislation forcing
the Interior Department to rule on drilling permits within 60
days. The permit would be approved if the deadline expired
without action.  The administration said it opposes all three measures,
without issuing a veto threat. The bills must pass the Democrat-
controlled Senate to become law, and the chamber isn’t
considering similar measures.  Expanding drilling won’t affect gas prices, which are set
by a global market, Democrats said.  Senate Hearing  In the Senate today, executives from  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and BP said
production costs may rise and gasoline prices increase if
Democrats succeed in stripping the tax breaks, including a $13
billion credit for manufacturing.  The plan is “counterproductive,” Exxon’s Chief Executive
Officer Rex W. Tillerson told the Senate Finance Committee at
the hearing. More money could be generated through royalty
payments to the government under new leases than in repealing
the breaks, the executives said.  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West  Virginia  Democrat, accused
the officials of being “out of touch” in defending what
Democrats say are unnecessary breaks given industry profits.  Exxon reported net income of $10.7 million during the first
three months of the year.  The average gasoline price was $3.984 yesterday, up from
$2.896 a year earlier, according to AAA’s daily  fuel report .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 