-- 
Retail Sales Growth in U.S. Slows as Gas Costs Depress Consumer Confidence

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-05-12T20:23:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/retail-sales-in-u-s-rise-0-5-reflecting-gains-in-fuel-food.html
Retail sales rose in April at the
slowest pace in nine months and consumer sentiment declined last
week, highlighting the risks that rising gasoline prices pose
for the  U.S. economy .  Purchases increased 0.5 percent, the smallest gain since
July, after a 0.9 percent March advance that was more than
double the previous estimate, Commerce Department figures showed
today in  Washington . The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index
dropped to minus 46.9 in the period to May 8, the lowest reading
since March.  Spending improved at service stations and grocery stores
and dropped at furniture and electronics dealers, showing
mounting bills for food and gasoline are leaving Americans with
less money for other goods. At the same time, sales at chains
like  Macy’s Inc. (M)  topped analysts’ estimates, a sign the
improving job market will prevent  consumer spending  from
faltering.  “Higher gas prices are starting to cut into discretionary
spending but a wholesale retrenchment by consumers is not
likely,” said  David Resler , chief economist at Nomura
Securities International Inc. in  New York . “More jobs are being
created. The outlook for the economy is one of moderate
growth.”  Stocks rose as commodities rebounded from an earlier slump.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.5 percent to 1,348.65
at the 4 p.m. close in New York. The S&P Supercomposite
Retailing Index advanced 1.1 percent.  Survey Results  The median forecast of 78 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for a 0.6 percent rise in retail sales after a 0.4
percent gain previously reported for March. Estimates ranged
from gains of 0.2 percent to 1.2 percent.  Other reports showed the number of workers filing claims
for unemployment insurance payments dropped less than forecast
last week and wholesale prices climbed more than projected in
April.  Applications for jobless benefits decreased 44,000 in the
week ended May 7 to 434,000, Labor Department figures showed.
Economists forecast 430,000 claims, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The producer-price index rose 0.8 percent, compared with a
0.6 percent median estimate of economists surveyed, other
figures from the Labor Department showed. The so-called core
measure, which excludes volatile food and energy costs,
increased 0.3 percent, more than projected.  Sales Breakdown  Eight of the 13 major retailer categories showed gains last
month, the Commerce Department report showed, led by a 2.7
percent jump at service stations and a 1.2 percent advance at
food and beverage stores. Purchases at furniture stores fell 1.1
percent, and were down 2.2 percent at electronics dealers.  The jump at service stations probably reflected higher
gasoline prices because the figures aren’t adjusted for
inflation. Regular fuel averaged $3.81 a gallon in April, up
from $3.54 in March. The price reached $3.99 on May 4, the
highest since July 2008, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest
automobile organization.  A 14 percent plunge in crude  oil prices  on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  from April 29 through yesterday signals the
worst news at the gasoline pump may be over, allowing spending
on other goods and services to recover in coming months.  ‘Encouraging Signs’  “We’re seeing encouraging signs that gas futures are
coming down, and if that continues, it will lessen the hit to
consumers,” said Nomura’s Resler.  April sales at Macy’s, the second-largest U.S. department
store chain, climbed 10.8 percent from the same month last year,
exceeding projections. The Cincinnati-based company yesterday
raised its annual profit forecast after first-quarter earnings
grew more than five-fold from a year ago.  “We are off to another strong start this year and we have
every expectation it will continue,” Karen Hoguet, chief
financial officer of Macy’s, said on a conference call with
investors yesterday.  Payrolls grew by 244,000 last month, the seventh straight
gain, after increasing a revised 221,000 the prior month, Labor
Department figures showed. Nonetheless, the jobless rate climbed
to 9 percent, the first increase since November, according to a
separate survey of households.  The drop in the Bloomberg comfort gauge reflected a
decrease in one of its three components: the measure of personal
finances fell to minus 10.6 last week, the lowest since the
first week of February, showing the damage rising fuel prices
can cause.  Comfort Components  A gauge of Americans’ views of the economy, at minus 75,
was little changed from minus 75.8 the previous week. The
buying-climate index was at minus 54.9, compared with the
previous week’s minus 56.  In the West, where fuel prices exceed the national average,
the comfort index fell to levels previously reached in mid 2009
that were the lowest in records dating back to 1990. Sentiment
among younger adults and home renters plunged to the lowest this
year, today’s report also showed.  “Consumers will likely need to observe a steady descent in
the cost of fuel before sentiment will see a sustainable
increase,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at
Bloomberg LP in New York. Higher energy bills are a “reminder
for beleaguered consumers day to day of what has been a
difficult economic recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  