-- 
Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Climbed in April as Employment Accelerated

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-05-12T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-climbed-as-employment-accelerated.html
Retail sales probably climbed in
April, showing growing employment is enabling Americans to
withstand higher costs for groceries and gasoline, economists
said before a report today.  The projected 0.6 percent gain in purchases would follow a
0.4 percent March increase, according to the median forecast of
78 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Other reports may show
fewer workers filed claims for jobless benefits, and wholesale
costs rose.  Demand at chains like Limited Brands Inc. and  Macy’s Inc. (M) 
may keep climbing after topping analysts’ estimates last month
as employers boost payrolls. Gains in  consumer spending , which
accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, may in turn lead
to further improvement in the job market that will sustain the
expansion even as fuel costs mount.  “Higher fuel prices at the pump take away some spending
power, but aren’t taking the consumer out of the picture,” said
 Jonathan Basile , a senior economist at Credit Suisse in  New
York . “We have more jobs in the economy and thus more income,
which is helping retail sales. Consumer spending will continue
to rise.”  The Commerce Department’s sales figures are due at 8:30
a.m. in  Washington . Economists’ estimates ranged from gains of
0.2 percent to 1.2 percent.  The Labor Department will also issue two reports at 8:30
a.m. One may show jobless claims fell by 44,000 to 430,000 last
week, according to the Bloomberg survey median. The other may
show producer prices rose 0.6 percent in April after increasing
0.7 percent the prior month.  Gasoline Prices  The retail sales figures, which aren’t adjusted for
inflation, probably got a boost from receipts at service
stations that reflected higher gasoline costs. Regular fuel
averaged $3.81 a gallon in April, up from $3.54 in March. The
price reached $3.99 on May 4, the highest since July 2008,
according to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization.  Payrolls grew by 244,000 last month, the seventh straight
gain, after increasing a revised 221,000 the prior month, Labor
Department figures showed. Nonetheless, the jobless rate climbed
to 9 percent, the first increase since November, according to a
separate survey of households.  More hiring helps explain the better-than-forecast retailer
results for April. Sales at stores open at least a year rose 8.7
percent from the same month last year, the 20th straight gain, a
report from Retail Metrics Inc. showed last week.  Exceeding Forecasts  Limited, the Columbus, Ohio-based operator of Victoria’s
Secret, reported a 20 percent jump in same-store sales, almost
double the average estimate of analysts compiled by Retail
Metrics, which tracks more than two dozen U.S. chains.  Sales climbed 10.8 percent at Macy’s, the second-largest
U.S. department store chain, also exceeding projections. The
Cincinnati-based company yesterday raised its annual profit
forecast after first-quarter earnings grew more than fivefold
from a year ago.  “We are off to another strong start this year, and we have
every expectation it will continue,” Karen Hoguet, chief
financial officer of Macy’s, said on a conference call with
investors yesterday.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index has
risen 5.5 percent from the end of March through yesterday,
outpacing the broader  S&P 500 , which advanced 1.2 percent.  The retail report may also show sales excluding automobiles
and service stations rose 0.5 percent last month after a 0.6
percent March increase, economists said.  Industrywide light-vehicle sales ran at a seasonally
adjusted annual rate of 13.2 million in April, topping the 13
million pace for the third straight month, according to
researcher Autodata Corp. Detroit-based  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s
U.S. deliveries jumped 26 percent, while Dearborn, Michigan-
based  Ford Motor Co. (F)  had a 13 percent gain.  “We continue to believe that the economy will stay on the
current steady recovery course,”  Don Johnson , GM’s vice
president of U.S. sales operations, said on a May 3 conference
call.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  