-- 
Romney Speech Seeks to Defuse Health-Care Issue Clouding Presidential Run

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-05-13T04:00:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/romney-confronts-health-care-issue-clouding-republican-presidential-quest.html
Likely Republican presidential
candidate Mitt Romney sought to overcome one of his biggest
political obstacles with a speech that stressed differences
between a health-care plan he supported and one President  Barack Obama  guided into federal law.  “Our plan was a state solution to a state problem,”
Romney said of the 2006 health-care measure he signed into law
as governor of Massachusetts. “His is a power grab by the
federal government to put in place a one-size-fits-all plan
across the nation.”  Romney’s remarks at the  University of Michigan’s
Cardiovascular Center  in Ann Arbor yesterday were designed to
address political questions about legislation that made
Massachusetts the first state to promise health insurance to all
residents.  “What we did wasn’t perfect,” Romney said. “But overall,
am I proud of the fact that we did our best for our people and
we got people insured? Absolutely.”  Obama and his aides have repeatedly cited the  Massachusetts 
law as a prototype for health-care legislation that they pushed
through what was then a Democratic-controlled Congress last
year.  Insurance Provision  Aspects of the federal law, dubbed “Obamacare” by
Republicans seeking to repeal it, are similar to the
Massachusetts measure, including the provision that adults not
covered by their employers or a government program must buy
insurance or face a financial penalty.  Republicans have focused much of their criticism of the
overall law on that mandate, which Romney didn’t distance
himself from in his speech. The mandate’s constitutionality has
been challenged in court cases seeking to have the law
overturned.  Speaking to about 100 medical personnel and supporters in
an auditorium, Romney, 64, criticized the federal law for
creating a “massive” bureaucracy. He described the
Massachusetts law as a “more modest proposal” that didn’t
result in more bureaucracy.  He used a PowerPoint presentation to present his arguments
and detail his national health-care proposals during a roughly
40-minute appearance.  Tax Deduction  Romney called for giving states the responsibility and
resources to care for the poor, uninsured and chronically ill,
as well as a tax deduction to those who buy their own health
insurance and a reduction in the influence of lawsuits on
medical care and costs.  “I’d like to make health care work more like a market and
less like a government agency,” he said.  He backed repeal of the federal law, an effort that passed
the Republican-controlled House in January and has languished in
the Democratic-controlled Senate.  Romney also made clear he had no plans to renounce the
Massachusetts measure.  “I respect the views of those who think that we took the
wrong course,” he said. “I also recognize that a lot of
pundits around the nation are saying that I should just stand up
and say this whole thing was a mistake, that it was a bone-
headed idea and I should just admit it.”  ‘Wouldn’t Be Honest’  Said Romney: “There’s only one problem with that: It
wouldn’t be honest. I, in fact, did what I believe was right for
the people of my state.”  Romney, who fell short in a 2008 presidential bid, has been
among the top tier of candidates in polls of 2012 potential
Republican candidates. His role in the passage of the
Massachusetts health-care law, though, looms as a stumbling
block for him among some Republican activists, including members
of Tea Party groups.  “It’s an incredibly big deal,” said Ryan Rhodes, a leader
of the Iowa Tea Party, based in the state that holds the first
contest in the nomination process. “How do you run against
Obamacare when he based that on your plan in Massachusetts?”  Democrats have lauded the Massachusetts law and made a
point of noting Romney’s involvement in its passage.  “I agree with  Mitt Romney , who recently said he’s proud of
what he accomplished on health care in Massachusetts and
supports giving states the power to determine their own health-
care solutions,” Obama told the nation’s governors Feb. 28.  ‘Running Away’  “Governor Romney seems to be running away from some of the
goals” of the law he signed in Massachusetts, White House
spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters yesterday. He also said
“there are a lot of similarities” between the Obama health-
care law and the one in Massachusetts.  Before the speech,  Michigan  Democratic Party Chairman Mark Brewer criticized Romney for trying to “distance himself” from
the 2006 legislation. “He will say and do anything to get
elected president,” Brewer said.  Anything short of an apology and an admission of error from
Romney for his involvement in the Massachusetts legislation may
not be enough to satisfy some Republican activists.  “He’s going to have to unequivocally say that we need to
roll this back and that we don’t need the government in our
health care,” said Rhodes, the Iowa Tea Party leader. “It
ranks right up there because it’s part of our debt and deficit
issue.”  David Rohde, a political science professor at  Duke
University  in Durham,  North Carolina , said concerns about Romney
among conservatives run deeper than health care.  ‘General Concern’  “The concerns of conservatives in the party about the
health-care issue is a manifestation of the general concern
about Romney, an uncertainty about whether he’s really one of
them,” said Rohde.  Before his 2003-2007 term as governor of Massachusetts,
Romney co-founded the Boston-based private-equity firm Bain
Capital LLC and helped turn the 2002 Winter Olympics in  Salt
Lake City ,  Utah , into a financial success. He touts those
credentials as the  U.S. economy  struggles to rebound from the
worst downturn since the Great Depression.  As he left the auditorium in Michigan yesterday, Romney
took no questions from reporters. Earlier, he was asked by an
audience member what would keep states from a race to the bottom
on the quality and affordability of health care.  “The people of that state are going to vote out of office
the people who aren’t doing a good job,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in  Ann Arbor , Michigan, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  