-- 
Rupiah Declines as Europe’s Debt Crisis Discourages Risk Taking

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-05-12T09:59:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/rupiah-declines-as-europe-s-debt-crisis-discourages-risk-taking.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah fell, snapping a
four-day rally, as renewed concern about Europe’s debt crisis
deterred risk-taking and led to a decline in regional stocks.  The currency retreated from a seven-year high as the MSCI
Asia-Pacific Index dropped by the most since March on
speculation Greece may not receive additional aid fast enough to
avoid debt restructuring. Bank Indonesia kept its benchmark
reference rate at 6.75 percent today, a move predicted by all 10
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Concern about Europe’s debt crisis, particularly Greece,
has come back to the fore, providing a safe-haven bid to
dollar,” said  Prakriti Sofat , a regional economist at Barclays
Capital in Singapore. “There is a need at some point for the
central bank to raise  interest rates  given that all the
inflationary pressures aren’t imported in nature.”  The rupiah weakened 0.5 percent to 8,563 per dollar as of
4:19 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency touched 8,522 earlier, matching a seven-year high
reached yesterday.  Policy makers last raised the reference rate by 25 basis
points, or 0.25 percentage point, in February, the first
increase in more than two years. Consumer prices in Southeast
Asia’s largest economy rose 6.16 percent last month from a year
earlier, after gaining 6.65 percent in March, according to data
released May 2.  Officials from the European Union, European Central Bank
and  International Monetary Fund  began their fourth evaluation of
 Greece ’s economy yesterday. The review is required before June,
when Greece is scheduled to receive more aid. German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said this week that Greece needs to stay the
budget-cutting course to win an increase in the 110 billion-euro
($156 billion) lifeline granted a year ago.  Ten-year government bonds advanced for a second day. The
yield on the 8.25 percent note due July 2021 fell seven basis
points to 7.65 percent, according to closing prices from the
Inter-Dealer Market Association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 