-- 
RWE’s First-Quarter Profit Drops to $2.29 Billion Amid Nuclear Moratorium

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-05-12T08:08:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/rwe-says-quarterly-net-fell-7-5-on-gas-power-price-correct-.html
RWE AG (RWE) ,  Germany ’s second-largest
utility, said first-quarter profit slid 7.5 percent as power
prices declined and income at its natural-gas business fell.  Recurrent net income, which the utility uses to calculate
its dividend, fell to 1.61 billion euros ($2.3 billion) from
1.74 billion euros a year earlier, Essen, Germany-based RWE said
today in a statement. That beat the 1.48 billion-euro average
estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  While the utility still expects a decline of about 30
percent in recurrent net this year, pending political decisions
on the future of nuclear energy in Germany will determine
whether RWE will face “additional burdens,” it said.  German utilities sell power several years in advance, which
means RWE now charges some clients at tariffs set amid a decline
in wholesale prices during the 2009 recession. A drop in spot
market gas prices that year widened the gap with what the
company pays under multiyear supply contracts linked to oil. RWE
has joined rival EON AG in selling assets to reduce debt after
Germany announced a tax on nuclear reactors.  “They beat consensus and our estimates but if you take
away the one-off effects, they’re back at what was expected,”
said Bernhard Jeggle, a Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg analyst.
“It isn’t quite as spectacular as it might look at first.”  RWE has fallen 12 percent this year, compared with a 7.5
percent increase for Germany’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX) , of which it
is a member. The stock slipped 0.3 percent to 43.70 euros as of
9:30 a.m. local time in Frankfurt trading.  One-Off Benefits  Jeggle said positive effects that won’t be repeated include
changes in nuclear and mining provisions of 100 million euros
and an estimated 40 million euros in remuneration payments from
companies building RWE’s delayed Staythorpe power plant in the
U.K. and at its renewable energy division.  The company said it booked a one-time payment in the
“medium double-digit millions of euros” from the settlement of
claims on “major investment projects.”  RWE’s supply and trading unit posted an operating loss of
276 million euros, compared with a profit of 88 million euros a
year earlier. The company cited “unexpected price fluctuations
in the aftermath of the events in  Japan  and North Africa” and
said earnings remain hampered by some gas sale prices which are
lower than procurement costs.  “The Supply & Trading unit’s result was disappointing,”
said Stuttgart-based Jeggle, who recommends investors sell RWE.
“It looks like RWE has more operative problems here than EON.”  Contract Renegotiations  EON said yesterday that it has reached “first successes”
in talks with gas producers on adjusting multiyear contracts and
that a price reduction on about 25 percent of its oil-indexed
supplies will temper losses on fuel sales in the second-quarter.  RWE said today that positive effects from earnings from gas
contract renegotiations “are expected to be felt no earlier
than 2012.”  The utility sold power in Germany, which accounts for 72
percent of its electricity output, at an average price below the
67 euros a megawatt-hour it achieved in 2010, according to the
statement.  German baseload power for delivery the next day averaged
40.85 euros a megawatt-hour in 2009, 41 percent lower than the
level in 2008, according to broker data on Bloomberg. Energy
consumption in Germany slumped in 2009 as industrial consumers
shuttered factories to meet a drop in demand, according to the
BDEW utility association.  Nuclear Tax  Germany’s four biggest utilities are selling assets as
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  starts an annual 2.3 billion-euro tax
on nuclear plants through 2016 to help plug the  budget deficit .  “The first quarter was not yet affected by the German
nuclear tax, so results might deteriorate during the course of
the year,” said Matthias Heck, an analyst with Macquarie
Research. The analyst, who has an “outperform” recommendation
on the stock, spoke before the results were published.  RWE has sold gas pipelines in western Germany and has said
it’s considering institutional investors as partners on its
Amprion power grid in the country. The company said today that
it booked capital gains of 310 million euros in the first
quarter from the sale of the grid and a stake in a German power
station. RWE had a 3 million-euro capital loss in the first
quarter of last year.  Merkel also ordered the seven oldest reactors to halt for
safety checks after a disaster at a Japanese nuclear station.
State environment ministers and federal lawmakers have indicated
the plants may not restart. RWE is Germany’s second-biggest
nuclear power company and operates two of the halted facilities.  “RWE will probably say they’re keeping the option open of
suing against the tax,” said Heck. “But they’ll stay guarded
in their communication because they might be interested in
reaching an agreement with the government on nuclear energy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  