-- 
SAP’s Plattner Courts Coca-Cola With Data-Analysis Software

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-05-12T20:45:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/sap-s-plattner-courts-coke-in-bid-to-trump-oracle-in-software.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the world’s largest maker of
business applications software, plans to release new data-
analysis programs called Hana next month, seeking to win
business from rival  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   At its  Sapphire conference  next week in  Orlando ,  Florida ,
SAP will spotlight 23 customers that are using its High
Performance Analytic Appliance software, Hasso Plattner, SAP’s
co-founder and chairman of its supervisory board, said yesterday
in an interview. The software, dubbed Hana for short, can speed
performance by storing reams of database records in a computer’s
memory instead of on slower disk drives. Coca-Cola Co. is also a
customer, Plattner said.  Co-Chief Executive Officers Bill McDermott and Jim Hagemann Snabe -- with Plattner as an adviser -- have promised to restore
SAP’s reputation as an innovator and quicken product delivery
since taking the reins after the ouster of former CEO  Leo Apotheker  in February 2010. Hana shows SAP has the
“intellectual capacity” to outpace competitors and persuade
customers to buy its data-analysis software, Plattner said.  “For too long, we couldn’t answer the question of, ‘What
does SAP do next?’” said Plattner, who co-founded Walldorf,
Germany-based SAP in 1972. “I wanted to make SAP a happy
company again and get customers saying good things about us.”  Business Suite  Siemens AG (SIE) , Exxon Mobil Corp., Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and
about 170,000 other companies use SAP’s enterprise resource
planning, or ERP, software to order goods, plan inventory levels
and manage sales. SAP is trying to persuade these companies to
also buy its new data-analysis and mobile-computing software
that works with its  Business Suite  ERP product.  SAP has been seeking ways to branch out as more software is
delivered over the Internet as a service, rather than residing
on users’ own computers, and its co-CEOs have promised a more
aggressive approach to acquisitions. The company bought Sybase
Inc. for $5.3 billion in July to buttress its ability to deliver
data to mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets like
Apple Inc.’s iPad.  “At a fundamental level, their core business is still
selling on-premises ERP,” said Pat Walravens, a San Francisco-
based analyst at JMP Securities, referring to ERP software that
runs on a company’s own computers. Walravens, who has a “market
underperform” rating on SAP, said the company needs to move
more aggressively toward selling Web software to larger
companies.  Sales Growth  SAP reported a smaller-than-estimated rise in first-quarter
profit last month because of costs related to the Sybase
acquisition. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg on average predict
SAP’s sales will rise 20 percent to $19.9 billion this year.  SAP’s American depositary receipts rose 89 cents to $64.08
at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares have gained
27 percent this year.  Oracle, International Business Machines Corp. and other
software makers are angling for business in the growing market
for programs to analyze the reams of financial and scientific
data that companies produce. Ken Glueck, an Oracle spokesman,
declined to comment on SAP’s contracts or plans for selling the
software.  Hana software, which will be released on June 20, is being
developed by a team of about 400 engineers working under Vishal Sikka, SAP’s executive board member for technology and
innovation. The company has been  testing the software since
December . Several large businesses in the  San Francisco  Bay Area
are running Hana to analyze data generated by Oracle’s
application and database software, said Plattner, 67.  ‘This Is Impossible’  Plattner and Sikka, 43, who spoke together in an interview
on SAP’s California campus overlooking the Palo Alto hills, will
outline plans for the technology behind Hana in a May 18 keynote
address at Sapphire. The software can hold hundreds of millions
of records in a computer’s memory, leading to much faster
processing times than if they were housed on disk drives.  “Four years ago, a normal ERP developer in SAP, Oracle or
Microsoft would have said, ‘This is impossible, you can’t do
this,’” said Plattner. Coca-Cola is using the software to
analyze sales and profitability data, he said.  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL) , Unilever NV, Lenovo Group Ltd. and
Centrica Plc are also among more than 50 Hana customers. Over
time, Hana will underpin Business Suite software, as well as
SAP’s Business ByDesign Web software for smaller companies,
Plattner said.  Novel Approach  “It has the potential to be transformative in the  software
industry ,” Jim Shepherd, an analyst at market-research firm
Gartner Inc., said of the so-called in-memory approach, which
can reduce the amount of time it takes to analyze years’ worth
of business data.  Because of its novel approach, SAP hasn’t landed large
numbers of customers, Shepherd said. Not many companies think
they need the speed, he said.  “It’s probably off the radar of most customers at this
point,” Shepherd said. “This is not an area where people
experiment.”  Plattner said the new technology will need some
salesmanship. One German customer was skeptical about speeding
up its analysis by a factor of 20, he said.  “Twenty times is so far out that people say they’re
scared,” Plattner said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  