-- 
Scene Last Night: John Paulson, Russell Carson, Sloth, Greed

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-05-12T15:57:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/scene-last-night-john-paulson-russell-carson-sloth-greed-patti-lupone.html
The DJ put on Katy Perry, and  John Paulson , president of Paulson & Co., and his wife, Jenny, danced
with friends. It was the final hour of  New York City Ballet ’s
Spring Gala, and the 850 guests were letting loose.  The evening started with cocktails, shrimp and dumplings on
the terrace of the David H. Koch Theater overlooking the
fountain at  Lincoln Center .  High up on the list of attention-getters was Daniel Brodsky, a real-estate developer and New York City Ballet board
member who earlier this week was named chairman of the
 Metropolitan Museum  of Art.  Other guests included  Sarah Jessica Parker , Brooke Shields,
Russell Carson, co-founder of  Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe ,
and National Basketball Association Commissioner David Stern.  On stage was an unusual piece once choreographed by George
Balanchine in Paris in 1933 -- “The Seven Deadly Sins” by Kurt Weill and Bertolt Brecht. You may remember the duo had a bigger
hit with “Three Penny Opera,” which also illustrates a slight
disdain for the capitalistic enterprise.  This one is called a ballet chante, meaning that Patti
LuPone and Wendy Whelan shared the role of Anna, who encounters
sloth, pride, anger, gluttony, lust, greed and envy in a tour of
seven American cities.  LuPone chewed a gigantic drumstick in Philadelphia. In a
park in  San Francisco  (Beowulf Boritt’s most cheerful and
elaborate set), Whelan stole a baby from its carriage, jealous
of the tanned Californians all dressed in green.  Tattered Scanties  LuPone got to wear a power suit, while Whelan spent most of
the night attired in tattered undergarments, a kind of anti-
ballerina, lazily pulling socks from clothes lines and embracing
ugly old men with paunches.  High couture and happy days returned with Balanchine’s
“Vienna Waltzes” featuring ballerinas in pink tutus and ball
gowns.  As for the Paulsons, they danced admirably too.  The event raised slightly more than $2 million, a record
for the company’s galas, said Executive Director Katherine
Brown.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 