-- 
Schaeuble Tightens Screws on Greece With Demand to Increase Cost Savings

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-05-12T10:02:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/schaeuble-tightens-screws-on-greece-with-demand-to-increase-cost-savings.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said that Greece will have to carry out extra savings
before more international aid is freed up, tightening the screws
on the Greek government as it faces down budget-cut protests.  Greece might receive additional help if a quarterly
assessment next month by European officials and the
 International Monetary Fund  shows that the government’s savings
program is falling short of targets agreed on last year,
Schaeuble said in a speech to the lower house in Berlin today.  “If it turns out that Greece can’t return to the financial
markets on the timeline laid out last year, then we have to talk
about what additional measures Greece, first and foremost, can
take,” Schaeuble told lawmakers. “We won’t be able to agree to
additional measures without clear conditions.”  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government, the largest
contributor to victims of the sovereign debt crisis, is tamping
down Greek expectations of a further bailout without strict
terms in return. Greece ground to a halt yesterday as workers
joined a general strike to protest existing deficit cuts and
state asset sales.  The German parliament’s Budget Committee approved aid for
Portugal from the European rescue fund at a late-night meeting
in Berlin yesterday. Only the anti-capitalist Left Party voted
against. The committee called on Merkel not to allow a second
tranche of aid until a new Portuguese parliament is elected.  ‘Necessity for Solidarity’  It’s right for Germany and other AAA-rated nations in
Europe including Finland and the Netherlands to impose
conditions on aid for Greece, said  Otto Fricke , budget spokesman
for Merkel’s Free Democratic Party coalition partner.  “If there is a necessity for solidarity by Germany, it
means on the other side there has to be solidity,” Fricke said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television from Berlin.  Greek  government bonds  fell, pushing the two-year note
yield to a record, as speculation that the country will have to
restructure its debt intensified. The yield on the Greek two-
year note climbed 11 basis points to 25.40 percent as of 9 a.m.
in  London , after earlier rising to 26.77 percent, the most since
before the introduction of the euro in 1999.  In a replay of last year, when Merkel dug in her heels
against aiding  Greece  for months before backing a 110 billion-
euro ($156 billion) bailout, she is again refusing to commit to
more help even as European officials warn of the impact of the
alternative, a restructuring of Greek debt.  ‘No Other Solution’  For Greece, European leaders “have to increase the package
for the next two years in order to cope with these challenges,”
Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  said in
an interview today in  St. Gallen , Switzerland.  “There is no other solution,” Ackermann said. A Greek
restructuring would be a “huge mistake,” he said. “The losses
in many areas would be too high and could provoke a contagion
impact.”  European banks have $130 billion in exposure to Greece,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG strategist  Andrew Garthwaite . Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s biggest lender, had net
sovereign exposure to Greece of 1.6 billion euros at the end of
last year, it said in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  