-- 
SEC Investigates State Street Over Foreign-Exchange Pricing After Lawsuits

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-05-12T12:38:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/sec-probes-state-street-foreign-exchange-pricing.html
State Street Corp. (STT) , the third-largest
custody bank, is being investigated by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission over its pricing of some foreign-exchange
services, an issue that has drawn legal action from whistle-
blowers and state officials.  The SEC, attorneys general and U.S. Attorney’s offices
“have made inquiries or issued subpoenas concerning our
foreign-exchange pricing,” the Boston-based company said in a
regulatory filing made public May 9.  The firm has been sued by California and the Arkansas
Teacher Retirement System for alleged fraud. The suits claim
State Street secretly marked up the price of some foreign-
exchange transactions. Those and similar suits against  Bank of
New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  have brought scrutiny to currency
transactions that could lead to lower revenue across the
industry.  “State Street is responding to inquiries from various
regulatory bodies regarding its foreign-exchange practices,”
Hannah Grove, a spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview. “We
will cooperate fully with the SEC in its inquiry” and
“continue to defend ourselves against any allegations of
wrongdoing.”  California  said in October 2009 that State Street defrauded
the state’s two biggest public pension funds of $56 million
since 2001 by charging more than agreed on the transactions and
concealing the overcharges by entering false exchange rates into
its own databases and in documents. The state is seeking more
than $200 million in damages and penalties. The California suit
was initiated by Associates Against FX Insider Trading, a
Delaware general partnership of unnamed whistle-blowers.  Whistle-Blower Effort  Harry Markopolos , the former  money manager  in Boston who
tried for years to alert the SEC to Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi
scheme, is helping the whistle-blower effort, a person with
knowledge of the matter who asked not to be named said last
month.  BNY Mellon, State Street’s largest rival, faces similar
claims from  Virginia , Florida and a public pension fund in
Pennsylvania. BNY Mellon has denied the allegations and said it
will defend against the suits.  Massachusetts’ chief securities regulator, Secretary of the
Commonwealth William F. Galvin, is also examining the trades,
according to spokesman Brian McNiff. Increased scrutiny could
force custody banks to lower their fees for the service
regardless of the legal outcomes,  Glenn Schorr , an analyst at
Nomura Holdings Inc., said in a March 22 research note.  The type of bundled foreign-exchange transactions that
spurred the lawsuits accounted for $335 million in revenue in
2010, or about 3.7 percent of sales, Chief Financial Officer
Edward Resch said at an April 19 earnings conference call.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and  hedge funds . State Street also manages
investments for individuals and institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in  Boston  at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  