-- 
Selig Says No Timetable for Dodgers’ Decision, ‘Comfortable’ With Review

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-05-12T18:34:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/selig-says-no-timetable-for-dodgers-decision-comfortable-with-review.html
Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig said
today there is no deadline for decisions on the  Los Angeles
Dodgers ’ financial situation and that he’s “comfortable” with
the pace of his investigation.  Selig said he met with Dodgers owner  Frank McCourt  during
two days of meetings in New York involving owners of all 30
Major League Baseball teams.  Tom Schieffer, a former U.S. diplomat and president of the
 Texas Rangers , has been installed by Selig to run day-to-day
operations of the Dodgers while baseball investigates the
finances of the team and McCourt. The review includes a look at
a 17-year, $3 billion television rights deal that McCourt wants
to sign with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports. McCourt has accused Selig
of trying to force him out as an owner.  “We’re doing this very thoughtfully, very sensitively with
a lot of planning, and I’m very comfortable with where we are,”
Selig said at a news conference in  New York . “I gave up
worrying about owners complaining about 18 years ago.”  McCourt declined to comment on Selig’s latest statements.  “I got nothing for you today,” McCourt told reporters as
he left MLB headquarters.  Selig said he couldn’t provide an estimate of when the
investigation would be completed and that he was awaiting
reports from both Schieffer and the law firm Proskauer Rose LLP,
which is investigating the Dodgers’ finances, before commenting
further.  Payroll Report  The Los Angeles Times reported on May 3 that the Dodgers
don’t have enough cash to make payroll at the end of May.  Asked if it would be acceptable for someone other than Fox
to lend McCourt money, Selig said that was “speculation I’m not
going to engage.”  “The only thing I’ll say is that the sport has very
definitive rules and it’s my job to make sure those rules are
being enforced,” he said. “End of discussion.”  Selig also said that he is content with the speed with
which the  New York Mets  are working to sell a stake of between
25 percent and 49 percent of the team.  The Mets’ owners, the Wilpon family, who are fighting a $1
billion lawsuit tied to the  Ponzi scheme  created by Bernard L. Madoff, in January hired Steve Greenberg, a managing director at
Allen & Co., to advise them.  “I do talk to Steve Greenberg with great regularity, and I
have great confidence in him,” Selig said. “I’m satisfied that
process is moving forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Siddons at 
 lsiddons@bloomberg.net  