-- 
Serbia Holds Europe’s Highest Interest Rate, Signals Easing

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-05-12T14:53:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/serbian-central-bank-holds-europe-s-highest-rate-on-dinar-1-.html
Serbia ’s central bank left  Europe ’s
highest benchmark interest rate unchanged and signaled it may
begin loosening policy as inflation slows in the coming months,
triggering a weakening of the dinar.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije kept the two-week
repurchase rate at 12.5 percent, in line with the expectations
of 10 of 21 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Seven forecast a
quarter-point rise and three an increase to 13 percent. One
expected a cut to 12.25 percent. The dinar traded at 99.66 to
the euro at 4:35 p.m. in Belgrade, down 0.52 percent on the day.  The policy rate “is close to, or at its peak of the
current cycle,” the bank said in a statement, signaling limited
potential for further gains in the dinar, the central bank’s
main tool to slow price growth. An expected easing of price
pressures may warrant a “very careful reduction in monetary
restrictiveness,” it said. It didn’t elaborate on which tools
it may use to loosen policy.  Global policy makers are struggling to contain inflation as
the world economy gathers strength and food and oil prices rise.
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on May
9 the world’s central bankers are united in fighting inflation
fueled by surging commodity prices and fast-growing emerging
economies.  Inflation Peak  Serbian inflation accelerated in April to 14.7 percent, the
fastest in 34 months, fuelled by a 13.5 percent increase in
electricity prices that month and rising food costs.  “Inflation will peak in April or May and then start
falling toward the target in order to fall within the 3 percent
to 6 percent tolerance band in the first half of 2012,” the
banks said in the statement.  The dinar, the second best performer in the world this year
after  Paraguay ’s guarani among the 178 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, has gained about 6 percent since the start of 2011 as
yields on government debt above 10 percent attract hundreds of
millions of euros in portfolio investments.  Following its decision last week not to sell Telekom Srbija
AD for a price below 1.4 billion euros ($1.98 billion), the
government said it would issue more debt linked to the euro
“which alleviates depreciation pressures on the dinar in the
near term,” Societe Generale SA said in a note to clients today
before the rate announcement.  Serbia must keep its 2011 fiscal gap below 4.1 percent of
gross domestic product to comply with the terms of a bailout
loan from the  International Monetary Fund , completed last month.  The chances that rates won’t change at the next policy
meeting, to be held on June 9, rose “significantly” after
today’s decision and the “positive” inflation outlook for May,
London-based  Barclays Capital  said in a note to clients after
the decision.  “The appreciation potential of the dinar does not look as
appealing as it did,” according to the note. “We tighten the
stop on our short euro-dinar six-month non-delivery forward
trade accordingly from 105 to 101,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  