-- 
Serbia 2011 Eurobond Issue to be Worth Up to $1 Billion, Debt Chief Says

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-05-12T12:31:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/serbia-2011-eurobond-issue-to-be-worth-up-to-1-billion-debt-chief-says.html
Serbia will issue a Eurobond by the
end of the year worth up to $1 billion, said Branislav Toncic,
the head of the Debt Management Agency.  Preparations are underway for a tender to select an adviser
while there will be no tender for the lead manager and the
government will send invitation letters “to a dozen banks with
experience in the region over the past year to year-and-a-
half,” Toncic told Bloomberg in a phone interview today.  “For the time being, there is a preliminary plan for a
Eurobond of up to 1 billion dollars,” he said. “We are still
weighing which market to choose, but we may decide for the
dollar market which seems to be a bit more convenient and where
we expect more demand from investors.”  The government has stepped up borrowing this year in the
local market, encouraged by growing investor interest in yields
that top 10 percent on dinar-denominated debt. It has to borrow
after the government stopped short of selling a controlling
stake in Telekom Srbija AD to  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  for less than
1.4 billion euros ($1.98 billion).  As the Balkan nation of 7.5 million people runs more
liabilities in euros than in dollars, the likely U.S. dollar
issue will be combined with “swaps and hedging instruments.”  The government hopes to select an adviser by the end of May
and give them “a couple of months” to prepare documentation
and a road-show. The  bond issue  should take place “in October
or November, perhaps even sooner, in September” Toncic said.  The bond will have to be issued “significantly before the
end of the year, because the end-of-year sends a bad signal that
we are desperate for funds at any cost,” he said.  The government has repeatedly said the 2011 budget
financing does not depend on the Telekom revenue. It needs funds
for some infrastructure projects less than a year before general
elections as it tries to boost employment and growth.  Serbia also plans to borrow 100 million euros on May 30,
via a 3-year bond with a 5 percent coupon as many investors in
the country had an “appetite to lend in euros,” Toncic said.  That auction is due a month before the country’s maiden
six-month euro-indexed Treasury bill issue matures and the Debt
Agency is considering a second sale of euro-indexed bonds on
July 1, expanding maturities and volumes from the initial
December sale if there is sufficient investor interest.  Serbia sold its first 21 billion dinars ($315.6 million) of
six-month euro-indexed Treasury bills at an average yield of
5.25 percent on Dec. 29, luring bond investors and triggering
dinar gains, turning the Serbian currency into  Europe ’s best
performer this year, better than the Hungarian forint or
Romanian leu.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in London at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  