-- 
Shire’s ‘Sore Thumb’ Growth May Catch Eye of Drugmakers

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-05-13T16:05:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/shire-sticks-out-as-takeover-target-as-ceo-russell-aims-for-independence.html
Shire Plc (SHP) ’s chief executive officer
says the Irish drugmaker is content to remain independent.
Analysts and investors aren’t convinced of its ability to do so.  Shire’s stock has climbed 27 percent this year, touching a
record price of 1,987 pence today, buoyed by takeover
speculation and rising sales from the Replagal and Vpriv
therapies for genetic disorders. Exane BNP Paribas, Kepler
Capital Markets and  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  each have listed the
Dublin-based company as among those drugmakers likely to be
acquired.  A purchase of Shire would give large drugmakers access to
the  company ’s portfolio of medicines at a time when the industry
is facing patent expiries and struggling to generate new
products. Shire dominates the market for attention-deficit
treatments and is expanding its therapies for rare diseases.  “Shire stands out like a sore thumb,” said Navid Malik,
an analyst with Matrix Corporate Capital LLP in  London  who also
named Shire as one of the top takeover targets in the health-
care industry, in an interview. “The big pharma companies have
issues with generics and Shire is sitting there saying they have
a target of 15 percent revenue growth. How can a pharma company
ignore that?”  Drugmakers face generic competition this year to products
with $34 billion in annual sales, up 34 percent from 2010
levels. Sales at risk from patent losses will climb to $147
billion by 2015, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shire’s Forecast  Shire last month reported a 24 percent increase in first-
quarter profit, boosted by revenue from its attention-deficit
medicines. The company also reiterated its forecast for 2011,
saying product sales are expected to grow “in line” with the
pace set last year. The shares rose 3 pence, or 0.2 percent, to
close at 1,961 pence in London trading, giving the company a
market value of 11 billion pounds ($17.8 billion).  “We have great prospects for the future by ourselves,”
Shire Chief Executive Officer Angus Russell said in a May 11
interview with Bloomberg Radio in  New York . “We’re an
independent company, but we’re a public company as well, and on
behalf of our shareholders obviously we always have to entertain
approaches that are significantly value-enhancing.”  Russell declined to comment when asked if Shire was in
talks with or had received expressions of interest from
potential buyers in an interview on Bloomberg TV’s “Street
Smart.”  “The markets determine what they will about companies, but
I think my shareholders are pretty happy with life,” he said in
the interview. “The growth in the stock has a lot to do about
the great earnings. We’re growing in the mid-teens, we’ve been
doing that for the last seven years consistently. That’s a
standout performance against an industry that’s struggling to
find growth right now.”  Lack of Appetite  Not everyone agrees that Shire is attractive at its current
price. UBS AG analysts removed Shire from their M&A Watch List
in March, citing a lack of appetite among drugmakers for big
acquisitions. The shares have risen as the risk of generic
competition to the Adderall XR treatment for attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder has eased, making a takeover too
expensive, the analysts wrote in a March 23 note.  Including net debt, buyers paid a median of 15 times
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization for
drug companies in purchases of $1 billion or more over the past
five years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Shire sells for
16.2 times profit.  Shire’s top-selling product, the Vyvanse medicine for ADHD,
generated revenue of $202.3 million during the first three
months of 2011. The drug, along with the Intuniv treatment, is
aimed at replacing sales of Adderall XR.  Wider Vyvanse Use  The company is seeking to widen use of Vyvanse by testing
it against depression and schizophrenia. Shire also has
experimental medicines in mid-stage studies as therapies for
heartburn and fluid build-up in the abdomen.  Shire has benefited from production delays at U.S.
biotechnology company  Genzyme Corp. (GENZ) , which makes competing
treatments for rare diseases that affect fewer than 200,000
people globally. Sanofi,  France ’s largest drugmaker, paid $20.1
billion for Genzyme this year to offset generic competition to
the Plavix blood-thinner and Taxotere cancer medicine.  A virus contamination in 2009 at a factory in  Boston  cut
the supply of two key Genzyme drugs, one known as Fabrazyme to
treat Fabry disease and one called Cerezyme for Gaucher disease.
The disruption boosted demand for Shire’s Replagal, which helps
Fabry disease patients, and Vpriv, a medicine for Gaucher. Both
ailments are rare genetic illnesses. Genzyme has said it expects
to return to normal output of Fabrazyme during the second half.  ‘Huge Opportunity’  “The rare disease space is one of the areas least invested
in and the lowest in terms of new drugs on the market. It’s a
huge opportunity,” Malik said. “Shire would be ideal as a
strategic fit for any large pharma that wants to capture that
market. It’s high quality and delivering an excellent growth
story.”  Both  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  may be potential
buyers of Shire given that both are expanding into rare
diseases, Malik said.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , which
agreed to buy  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)  for $6.2 billion, and  AstraZeneca
Plc (AZN)  may also be interested in Shire, said Jeremy Batstone-Carr,
a analyst for Charles Stanley & Co. in London, in an interview.  Shir Altay, a Teva spokeswoman; Abigail Baron, an
AstraZeneca spokeswoman; and Alex Harrison, a Glaxo spokeswoman,
said their companies don’t comment on market rumors. Joan Campion, a spokeswoman for Pfizer, declined to comment.  Shire has been relying on its human-genetics unit to reduce
dependence on ADHD products, which accounted for about 34
percent of sales last year. Shire in November acquired  Belgium ’s
Movetis NV for 428 million euros to gain a constipation
treatment and experimental drugs for gastro-intestinal diseases.  ‘Young and Growing’  “Shire’s orphan drug portfolio is young and growing,”
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  analysts including Keyur Parekh wrote
in a Feb. 28 research note. “We believe it is now in a position
of growing meaningfully in this segment and has the potential to
be a major player both with its currently marketed portfolio as
well as its pipeline.”  Sanofi’s purchase of Genzyme last month and speculation
that  Switzerland ’s biggest biotechnology company,  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) ,
is a takeover target may signal a wave of acquisitions in the
 drug industry , according to Tero Weckroth, an analyst at Kepler
in Zurich.  “There will be more,” Weckroth said in a telephone
interview. “There’s so much cash in big pharma and they’ll
somehow need to spend it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  