-- 
Silver Lake Hires Credit Suisse’s Bryce Lee for New Clean-Technology Fund

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-05-12T21:36:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/silver-lake-hires-credit-suisse-s-bryce-lee-to-join-firm-s-clean-tech-fund.html
Silver Lake , the Silicon Valley
private-equity firm with about $14 billion under management, has
recruited  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  banker Bryce Lee to join a fund
focused on clean-energy companies.  Lee, Credit Suisse’s head of technology investment banking
in the Americas, starts at Silver Lake’s new Kraftwerk fund in
June, said Adam Grosser, who is leading the group. The fund is
seeking about $1 billion in capital and already has a commitment
of about $300 million from  George Soros ’s Soros Fund Management
LLC, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Lee joins at least six other dealmakers who will hunt for
investments. Unlike Silver Lake’s private equity business,
Kraftwerk plans to invest in companies before their initial
public offerings, rather than buying companies and turning them
around. Last month, Kraftwerk hired Raj Atluru from venture firm
Draper Fisher Jurvetson.  “We are building a dedicated team on a global basis that
will differentiate us from traditional private equity firms,”
said Greg Mondre, a managing director at  Menlo Park , California-
based Silver Lake, who oversaw the effort’s development. “We
will be able to step in where others are unable to understand
how to work around complex situations from a tech standpoint.”  At Credit Suisse, Bill Brady will be handling Lee’s old
responsibilities. He’s co-chairman of the firm’s Global
Technology Group in  Palo Alto ,  California .  Looking Beyond Startups  The Kraftwerk team also includes Cathy Zoi, who worked at
the U.S. Department of Energy, and Steffan Tomlinson, former
finance chief at Aruba Networks Inc. They’re seeking to invest
between $50 million and $200 million in companies in need of
capital to expand beyond the startup phase, Grosser said.  Kraftwerk won’t seek control of the companies, another
distinction that sets it apart from  Silver Lake ’s large and mid-
cap funds, which may co-invest in Kraftwerk’s deals. Grosser
declined to comment on the amount the group is raising.  “We see opportunities beyond wind and solar technology in
areas such as the transformation of the lighting market, which
is still dominated by highly inefficient technology, and a
complete transformation of the electric grid,” Grosser said.  The fund will target companies developing technology that
makes energy production more efficient, reduces waste and
emissions and overhauls aging infrastructure. In addition to
operating out of a Silicon Valley office, Kraftwerk is planning
to open an outpost in  Shanghai .  Renren IPO  Lee helped build Credit Suisse’s investment banking
business in  Asia . He also was part of the team that advised the
Chinese social-networking company Renren Inc. in its $855
million IPO this month.  Lee’s clients include the world’s biggest maker of thin-
film solar modules, First Solar Inc. He raised more than $6.7
billion for 22 public and private clean-technology companies
over the past six years and executed financings for businesses
in China, including the Internet search giant Baidu Inc.  “Bryce has been a great partner of mine for 19 years and we
all look forward to continuing to work closely with him on his
new endeavor at Silver Lake Kraftwerk,” said David Wah, global
head of technology within Credit Suisse’s investment bank.  Grosser, who left venture firm Foundation Capital to head
Kraftwerk, focused on providing growth equity to energy and
resource companies. Grosser spent 10 years at Menlo Park-based
Foundation, where he invested in companies such as  EnerNOC Inc. (ENOC) ,
which provides a service that helps reduce electricity demand,
and Silver Spring Networks, the maker of networking equipment
and software for smart electricity grids. Both companies are
also Lee’s clients.  Grosser also sits on the board of communications equipment
supplier  Calix Inc. (CALX) , which sold shares to the public last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  