-- 
Sina to Increase Spending to Attract Users, Promote Weibo Microblog Site

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-12T04:31:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/sina-to-increase-spending-to-attract-users-promote-weibo-microblog-site.html
Sina Corp., owner of  China ’s third-
most visited website, will increase spending to reach its target
of more than 200 million microblogging users this year even as
first-quarter profit missed analysts’ estimates.  The company is projecting $100 million in incremental costs
this year in areas including marketing, network equipment and
hiring, Chief Executive Officer Charles Chao said on a
conference call today. Spending will accelerate in the second
and third quarters from $14 million in the first quarter, he
said.  “We believe it is absolutely necessary to increase our
investment in these areas,” Chao said. “Some of the
competitors are spending significantly more in marketing dollars
to grab share in this explosively growing social media market in
China.”  Sina, based in  Shanghai , yesterday posted first-quarter
profit that missed analysts’ estimates as it increased spending
on its microblogging site. The company is seeking to boost the
number of users in order to attract potential advertisers and
fend off competition from rivals including  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)   Sina fell 29 cents to $119.80 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading yesterday before the announcement. The stock has surged
74 percent this year, making it the best performer in the Morgan
Stanley Internet Index.  The microblog service won’t contribute “meaningfully” to
Sina’s earnings until next year, according to CLSA Ltd. analyst
Jialong Shi.  ‘First Priority’  Adding to the Weibo user base is Sina’s “first priority”
and there’s no target date for when the company will start to
generate a profit from the service, Chao said. The company
intends to make money from the business through methods
including advertising, real-time search and gaming, he said. The
company plans to introduce gaming in the next few months.  Sina aims to have more than 200 million users by the end of
this year, from 140 million now, Chao said. Tencent has 160
million microblogging users, President Martin Lau said
yesterday.  Net income fell to $15 million, or 23 cents a share, from
$24.4 million, or 37 cents, a year earlier, Sina said in a
statement yesterday. That compared with the $15.4 million
average of eight analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales rose 18 percent to $100.2 million, while operating
expenses increased 25 percent to $41.8 million, Sina said.
Second-quarter sales, excluding deferred license revenue, may be
$112 million to $115 million, Sina said in the statement.
Analysts on average were predicting sales of $118.6 million,
according to the Bloomberg survey.  Sina’s website draws fewer visitors than that of Baidu
Inc., China’s biggest search-engine operator, and Tencent’s
QQ.com, according to China Websites Ranking, a site run by the
Internet Society of China that compiles Web traffic information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  