-- 
China’s Sina Declines to One-Month Low After Ratings Cuts

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-05-12T21:12:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/sina-shares-drop-to-1-month-low-after-net-income-misses-estimate.html
Sina Corp., owner of  China ’s third-
most visited website and the Twitter-like Weibo service, fell to
the lowest level in a month in New York after three brokerages
reduced their ratings following a profit report that trailed
estimates.  The shares slid 5.6 percent to $113.15 at 4 p.m. New York
time, the lowest since April 12. Morgan Stanley, Standard
Chartered Plc and Mirae Asset Securities Co. cut their ratings
on the stock today, citing the first-quarter earnings report.  Sina’s profit declined 39 percent from a year earlier to
$15 million as the company increased spending to develop its
microblogging service. That compared with the $15.4 million
average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Continued negative investor sentiment on the China
Internet sector, and no near-term monetization plan for Weibo,
could combine to weigh on near-term share price performance,”
 Mike Hickey , an equity analyst at Janco Partners Inc. in
 Greenwood Village ,  Colorado , wrote in a research note today.  Second-quarter sales, excluding deferred license revenue,
may be $112 million to $115 million, Sina said in a statement
yesterday. Analysts on average were predicting sales of $118.6
million, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The “soft” second-quarter guidance reflected “weakness
from the automobile category,” Hickey wrote.  Sina’s stock has surged 64 percent this year, making it the
best performer in the Morgan Stanley Internet Index.  Sohu Inc., the owner of China’s fourth-most visited
website, tumbled 8.1 percent to $84.91 in New York, the lowest
level since March 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  