-- 
Slovak Media Follow Rupert Murdoch by Pushing Broad Online Paywall Plan

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 
2011-05-12T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/slovak-media-follow-murdoch-in-online-paywall.html
Slovak newspapers, magazines and TV
stations have united behind a single Internet paywall, following
companies such as  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. in trying to get
users to pay for online content.  Readers are required to pay a monthly fee of 2.90 euros
($4.2) for full access to nine media websites, including
newspapers Pravda, SME and Sport, in a country where the average
monthly wage is 769 euros.  “We are betting the user will find this all-you-can-eat
approach attractive,” Piano Media owner Tomas Bella said in an
interview in Bratislava. “People in general don’t have a
problem to pay, but they don’t want to make many payments to
individual Web sites.”  The paywall run by Piano Media is the latest attempt by an
industry struggling to get readers to pay for content. As more
people turn to the Internet for information, newspapers are
increasingly charging for online access to make up for lost
revenue from print ads. They are also betting that a small
number of committed, paying online readers can attract
advertisers.  Variety of Models  Newspapers are turning to a variety of models to enforce
payments, including a metered format at the Financial Times and
the New York Times, which allows a user to read a number of
articles for free each month before they must pay. Rupert
Murdoch’s Times of  London  titles require a subscription before
any story can be accessed.  Slovakia’s unified paywall may work in a country of
5.4 million people, especially if rival news organizations
cooperate, said George Brock, head of journalism at City
University London.  “On a scale that large it could also be that easier to
find ways around it” and avoid paying, Brock said in a phone
interview. “Overall I’m in favor of any form of experimenting,
but the devil is in the detail.”  The most loyal customers are the most likely to pay, Bella
said. Not all content on the participating media sites is
therefore locked. At SME, which receives about 1.5 million
visits per month, general news is free and locked items
represent less than 5 percent of the newspaper’s online content,
according to SME data.  Still, customers must pay for reading SME’s commentaries or
having the right to post comments in online discussions. The JOJ
television channel allows free access to its website while an
advertisement-free version is locked behind Piano Media’s
paywall.  ‘Earn Some Money’  “We will earn some money through the project which is
better than nothing,” said Matus Kostolny, SME’s editor-on-
chief, where Bella previously worked as deputy head of the
online section before starting his own company. “Only our
unique content is locked and the rest is free, which enables us
to keep traffic on the website.”  The  New York Times Co. (NYT)  introduced a metered payment system
in late March which requires customers to pay after reading a
certain number of articles. More than 100,000 people have signed
up for new digital subscriptions so far, the newspaper has said.  Last year, Rupert Murdoch’s U.K. titles the Times and
Sunday Times and News of the World were among the first general-
interest English-language newspapers to start charging for Web
access to boost revenue and curb free sharing of their news on
Internet search engines and news consolidation sites such as
Google Inc.  Visits Decline  Visits to the website of the Times fell to a third of the
pre-paywall total shortly after the concept was introduced in
early July, data compiled by Experian Hitwise showed. Still,
contact details and information on readers that remained behind
could prove more valuable for marketers seeking to target users.  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s international unit said in March monthly
digital subscribers at the U.K. Times and Sunday Times rose 60
percent in the four months through February, driven by Times
iPad application users.  Piano Media wants to have 1.5 percent of country’s 2.5
million Internet users within one year and reach a share of
between 5 percent and 15 percent by 2015.  The company keeps 30 percent of user charges, while the
rest will be distributed to participating media based on time
users spent with their content.  Piano Media, which believes their model will work best
with smaller populations, aims to expand in similar small- and
medium-sized markets such as in the neighboring  Czech Republic 
or in Scandinavia.  “It is rather easy to meet all publishers in a small
country such as Slovakia,” the 32-year-old Bella said. “But we
have talked to publishers in other countries and they like the
idea.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net . 