-- 
Software Piracy Losses Jump to $59 Billion in 2010, Report Says

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-05-12T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/software-piracy-losses-jump-to-59-billion-in-2010-report-says.html
The value of pirated software
worldwide rose 14 percent to $58.8 billion last year, almost
double the total in 2003, amid rising theft of programs in
emerging markets, according to a trade group that tracks piracy.  Countries with emerging economies, including  China , Russia,
 India  and  Brazil , now account for more than half of the money
lost to piracy, according to the  Business Software Alliance , a
Washington group that is releasing its annual piracy report
today. The U.S. topped all other countries with $9.52 billion
lost to piracy, with China second at $7.78 billion.  Still, only 20 percent of software in the U.S. is stolen,
tying for the lowest rate with Japan and Luxembourg. In China,
almost four out of five programs in use are pirated, and 65
percent of software in Russia is stolen. Piracy represents a
problem for companies such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the biggest
software maker, because personal-computer sales growth is
fastest in countries that have high rates of software theft.  “Software piracy is truly out of control in the world’s
fastest-growing economies,” Robert Holleyman, chief executive
officer of the  Business Software Alliance , said in an interview
yesterday. “When you see $59 billion worth of products were
stolen last year it equates to being robbed blind. Piracy is the
bane of our industry’s existence.”  The bulk of piracy takes place among business customers,
Holleyman said, meaning some companies in emerging markets are
able to avoid costs that rivals in low-piracy countries like the
U.S. and Japan face.  China’s Piracy Rate  The percentage of software in China that is pirated dropped
to 78 percent last year from 79 percent in 2009, according to
the report. In 2003 it was 92 percent, though the overall value
of stolen software has increased as the Chinese software market
expands, the report said.  Stolen software in  Russia  amounted to $2.84 billion, while
India accounted for $2.74 billion of the total. Though it has a
lower percentage of piracy, the U.S. still racks up the largest
losses in dollars because it is the biggest software market,
Holleyman said.  Georgia  leads the list of countries with the highest
percentage of pirated software, with 93 percent, following by
 Zimbabwe  at 91 percent. Yemen, Bangladesh and Moldova came in at
90 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  