-- 
South African Reserve Bank Leaves its Benchmark Rate Unchanged at 5.5%

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-05-12T14:12:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/south-african-reserve-bank-leaves-its-benchmark-rate-unchanged-at-5-5-.html
South Africa ’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a third meeting to help
spur the economy’s recovery while warding off price pressures
from rising food and oil costs.  The Monetary Policy Committee was unanimous in its decision
to leave the repurchase rate at 5.5 percent, Governor Gill Marcus said in a televised press conference from  Pretoria  today.
That was in line with the forecasts of all 22 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Interest rates at a 30-year low may help to support growth
in Africa’s biggest economy, which has continued to shed jobs
after a recession ended in 2009, pushing the  unemployment rate 
to 25 percent. While rising food and fuel costs will drive
inflation outside the 3 percent to 6 percent target range in the
first quarter, this will only be “temporary” and does not
justify an increase in rates, Marcus said.  “We are in an abnormal situation,” said Dennis Dykes,
chief economist of Nedbank Group Ltd., South  Africa ’s fourth-
largest lender. “The economy is still wounded from the global
financial crisis. It’s quite dangerous in this environment to
raise rates, even as a pre-emptive move.”  The rand was at 6.9347 against the dollar at 3:47 p.m. in
Johannesburg from 6.940 before Marcus began speaking. The yield
on the R157 government bond, due 2015, rose 4 basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 7.64 percent.  Growth Forecast  The  Reserve Bank  lowered its economic growth forecast for
this year to 3.6 percent from 3.7 percent and left its estimate
for 2012 at 3.9 percent, Marcus said.  Gasoline costs increased 4.8 percent at the beginning of
March, pushing the inflation rate to a nine-month high of 4.1
percent that month. Inflation has been inside the target band
since February 2010.  Inflation will probably peak at 6.3 percent in the first
quarter and return to within the target by the second quarter of
2012, remaining close to the 6 percent ceiling for the rest of
the year, Marcus said.  “The risk to inflation has deteriorated further, mainly as
a result of external cost-push factors,” Marcus said. “The MPC
will not hesitate to respond timeously to signs that threaten to
move inflation out of the target range on a sustained basis.”  Shedding Jobs  Job losses and a slow recovery in the economy are
overshadowing inflation concerns. The economy shed 14,000 jobs
in the first quarter, making it difficult for President  Jacob Zuma , whose ruling  African National Congress  will contest local
elections on May 18, to meet a goal of cutting the jobless rate
to 15 percent by 2020.  “When you’re in an obvious up cycle, it’s better to raise
rates early,” said Dawie Roodt, chief economist of Efficient
Group in Pretoria. “If you wait too long and inflation doesn’t
turn at 6.3 percent, then you have to take a couple of steps to
bring it back into the target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 