-- 
SPAIN DAYBOOK: April Inflation Data; Repsol 1Q Earnings

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-05-12T06:23:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/spain-daybook-april-inflation-data-repsol-1q-earnings.html
Spain ’s National Statistics Institute
publishes a breakdown of inflation data for April at 9 a.m. CET.  Repsol YPF SA (REP) , Spain’s biggest oil company, said first-
quarter profit adjusted to exclude inventories and one-time
items rose 29 percent to 654 million euros. It beat the 553
million-euro mean estimate in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.The
Madrid-based company will hold a conference call at 2 p.m. CET.  WHAT TO WATCH: *Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero will
meet Spanish union leaders and the head of the CEOE business
lobby in  Madrid  to discuss changes to wage-bargaining rules.  ECONOMY: *Spain’s April inflation data. *European Central Bank
executive board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez Paramo speaks in
Madrid at 11:30 a.m. CET. *European Union Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said Spain is “decoupling” from
Portugal, Ireland and  Greece , and that the EU’s sovereign debt
crisis is limited to the latter three countries. He spoke to the
European Parliament in Strasbourg,  France .
*Two earthquakes hit Spain’s southeastern region of Murcia
yesterday, the government said.  EQUITIES:
* Iberdrola SA (IBE)  is examining potential takeover candidates as a
way to limit the influence that Actividades de Construccion y
Servicios SA can exert over management, Expansion reported.
* Acciona SA (ANA) , the world’s fourth-biggest producer of renewable
energy, publishes first-quarter earnings before the stock market
opens in Madrid. The company will hold a conference call at 12
p.m. CET.
*Criteria Caixacorp. SA holds a news conference and a
shareholders meeting in Barcelona.
* Clinica Baviera SA (CBAV)  said in a filing first-quarter net income
rose to 2.45 million euros from 2.3 million euros a year
earlier. Sales rose 6 percent to 24.9 million euros.
* Fluidra SA (FDR)  reports earnings.
*Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA reports earnings after market
closes. Spain’s biggest wind turbine maker holds conference call
at 6:30 p.m. CET.
* Indra Sistemas SA (IDR)  reports earnings after the market closes.
* Obrascon Huarte Lain SA (OHL)  said in a filing first-quarter net
income rose to 37.3 million euros from 33.5 million euros a year
earlier. Revenue fell 6.5 percent to 1 billion euros.  MARKETS:
*The  IBEX 35 Index (IBEX)  rose 0.6 percent to 10,531.5 in Madrid. *The
spread between Spanish and German 10-year borrowing costs
narrowed to 212.7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  