-- 
Spyker’s Saab Auto, Hawtai Drop Chinese Carmaking Plan as Clearance Fails

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-05-12T11:57:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/spyker-s-saab-hawtai-drop-venture-as-china-clearance-fails-2-.html
Saab Automobile, the Swedish carmaker
that agreed last week to produce autos in China with Hawtai
Motor Group, faces fresh uncertainty over its future after the
plan failed win approval from authorities in the Asian nation.  The manufacturers will continue talks about cooperation on
a non-exclusive basis after they were “forced to terminate the
agreement” when it became clear that Hawtai couldn’t get Chinese
consent,  Spyker Cars NV (SPYKR) , the Dutch supercar maker that owns
Saab, said in a statement. Spyker fell the most in six weeks.  The deal would have helped Trollhaettan-based Saab ease a
cash shortage that forced it to halt output on March 29 and to
stage a comeback in China, where it has been absent since 2008.
The carmaker can still draw on a 30 million-euro ($43 million)
loan arranged last week and is also seeking further funding from
the  European Investment Bank , while Russian banker  Vladimir Antonov  has said he’d like to take a stake.  “They have to look for another investor, it’s as simple as
that,” Tom Muller, senior analyst at Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers
NV in Amsterdam, said by telephone today. “They need a stable
long-term investor. Whether that’s a financial investor or car-
sector investor doesn’t matter.”  Spyker Cars dropped as much as 16 percent to 3.52 euros,
the steepest intraday decline since March 30, and was trading at
3.70 euros as of 1:46 p.m. in Amsterdam. That pared the stock’s
gain this year to 5.8 percent.  Hawtai, based in Beijing, agreed on May 3 to invest 120
million euros ($171 million) and receive a stake of as much as
29.9 percent of Zeewolde, Netherlands-based Spyker. The Chinese
company also agreed to lend Spyker 30 million euros.  Agreement Terms  The agreement would have let Hawtai produce Saab vehicles
locally for the Chinese market, starting in 2013 with the
Swedish carmaker’s upgraded 9-3 model. The deal also required
the approval of the EIB and the Swedish National Debt Office,
which is guaranteeing a loan to Saab from the bank.  “Hawtai has nothing further to add at this stage beyond
what was announced at the press conference on May 3,” Xinyi
Huo, the automaker’s strategic planning director, said in a
phone interview with Bloomberg News.  Spyker Chief Executive Officer Victor Muller said by
telephone from  China  today that local authorities wouldn’t clear
the deal. He declined to comment further. Spyker’s statement
didn’t specify any Chinese party that wasn’t giving approval.  Muller had predicted on May 3 that the deal would be fully
cleared within six to 12 weeks. Saab said today that it
continues to work on securing short- and medium-term funding,
including talking with “various” Chinese partners.  Cash Need  Saab probably needs between 50 million euros and 100
million euros to carry it over the next two or three quarters,
Muller, the Theodoor Gilissen analyst, said. He isn’t related to
the Spyker CEO.  Saab aims to restart production after it has won clearance
from the EIB, the European Union’s lending institution, to draw
another 29 million euros in loans, or after it secures funding
in other ways, the carmaker said.  The Swedish manufacturer is also trying to bring in Russian
banker Antonov.  General Motors Co. (GM) , Saab’s former owner,
tentatively agreed on April 28 to allow Antonov’s investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 