-- 
Stalled Worker Wages Show Need for Stimulus, Blanchflower Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-05-12T21:17:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/stalled-wages-show-stimulus-need-blanchflower-says-tom-keene.html
Central banks should continue to keep
rates low to stimulate growth because workers’ wages aren’t
rising, damping any increase in inflation, according to  David Blanchflower , a former policy maker at the Bank of England.  “We see no evidence of wage growth in  Europe , in the U.K.,
or in the U.S.,” Blanchflower, now an economics professor at
 Dartmouth College , said in an interview today on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with Tom Keene. “If we do,
then it will be appropriate to raise rates. Right now, you have
to keep rates low, keep QE going, and if the situation worsens,
no growth, we do more QE.”  Blanchflower and Keene spoke on the Dartmouth campus in
Hanover,  New Hampshire , as a Federal Reserve program to spur
economic growth by purchasing U.S. debt in a strategy called
quantitative easing approaches its scheduled end in June.  The
Fed next meets June 22.  The lack of wage growth means central banks do not need to
clamp down on inflation generated by higher  oil prices  because
the cost of energy is not spurring higher worker pay,
Blanchflower said.  The  unemployment rate  in the U.S. rose to a peak of 10.1
percent in October 2009 from a six-year-low of 4.4 percent in
May 2007 before the start of the financial crisis. That has led
to a decline in wages of about 8.5 percent, Blanchflower said.  The lower compensation has given central bankers, including
Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, the latitude to hold borrowing
costs near zero and stimulate the economy through measures such
as the plan to buy $600 billion of Treasuries.  Policy makers should also consider additional tax cuts to
boost employment and revive the economy, Blanchflower said.  “We need to give private-sector firms tax cuts, investment
incentives and incentives to hire people,” Blanchflower said.
“The economy on its own is not going to deliver the jobs that
we need. So we really have to help firms and stimulate hiring.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  