-- 
Rising Sugar Surplus Set to Hurt Prices, Kingsman Forecasts

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-05-12T10:03:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/sugar-surplus-to-quadruple-on-thai-china-output-kingsman-says.html
Sugar output may exceed demand for a
second year as production advances in  Thailand ,  China  and the
European Union, more than quadrupling the projected global
surplus and driving prices lower, according to Kingsman SA.  The raw-sugar surplus will widen in 2011-2012 to 10.575
million metric tons from an estimated 2.445 million tons this
year,  Jonathan Kingsman , managing director of the Lausanne,
Switzerland-based broker, said at a conference in Singapore
today. Kingsman has traded the commodity for more than three
decades and predicted the end of a sugar rally in February.  Kingsman’s 2011-2012 forecast is a surprise and would be
the biggest surplus since 2006-2007, said John Stansfield, a
senior analyst at  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM)  If correct, it would
be “very bearish,” and sugar may drop to less than 20 cents,
he said. Olam trades farm commodities including sugar.  Sugar has been the worst performer this year of the 24
commodities on the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index on prospects for
higher supply. Lower sugar costs may benefit users such as Coca-
Cola Hellenic Bottling Co. SA and  Nestle SA (NESN) , while easing record
food prices, benefiting the world’s poorest.  Sugar futures on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  have plunged
42 percent from a three-decade high of 36.08 cents a pound, set
on Feb. 2, on forecasts for increased output from Brazil and
Thailand, the two biggest shippers. The July-delivery contract
dropped 0.9 percent to 20.76 cents at 5:51 p.m. Singapore time.  ‘Sugar World’  “In the past three months the sugar world has been
surprised by the production” from Thailand, Kingsman said,
according to an advance copy of his remarks. Prices may decline
through to October, Kingsman said in his address.  Global food prices surged to a record in February as grains,
sugar and cooking oils jumped, according to the United Nations
Food & Agriculture Organization. The group’s World Food Price
Index dropped in March, with lower sugar the biggest contributor
to the fall, before rebounding 0.5 percent last month.  Coca-Cola Hellenic, the world’s second-biggest Coke drinks
bottler, reported on May 10 its first quarterly loss since
December 2008 after costs of raw materials, including sugar,
rose in the first quarter.  Cheaper sugar will give Coca-Cola Hellenic “a different
cycle next year,” Robert Murray, chief financial officer at the
 Athens , Greece-based company, said on a conference call on May
10. Sugar accounts for 12 percent of the cost of goods sold.  Nestle’s Costs  Cheaper sugar may also help to contain costs for Vevey,
Switzerland-based Nestle, the world’s largest food company,
which has estimated its raw-materials bill will rise by as much
as $3 billion this year, the biggest gain ever. The company,
whose candy brands include Smarties, spends about 1.5 billion
Swiss francs ($1.69 billion) a year on sugar, according to
Millicent Molete, a spokeswoman.  Sugar futures will average 24 cents per pound in 2011,
about 15 percent lower than the average so far this year, before
rebounding to 25 cents next year,  Abah Ofon , an analyst at
Standard Chartered Plc, said in an interview on May 10.  Prices will decline as the market heads for another surplus
in the season from October after output exceeds demand by about
1 million tons in the year that ends Sept. 30, Ofon said,
without giving a surplus forecast for the next season.  Ofon’s estimate for the 2010-2011 surplus matches that from
the  International Sugar Organization , which raised its outlook
on May 5 from a surplus of 200,000 tons in February.  Thai Output  Cane output in Thailand, the second-largest exporter, may
climb to a record 94 million tons in the season to Oct. 31, with
sugar production of 9.6 million tons, Prasert Tapaneeyangkul,
secretary-general of the country’s Office of the Cane & Sugar
Board, said yesterday. Next season’s cane harvest may match this
year’s if there’s no drought or heavy rains, Prasert said.  Output from Maharashtra state,  India ’s biggest producer,
will reach a record 9.15 million tons in the year to Sept. 30,
Prakash Naiknavare, managing director of the Maharashtra State
Cooperative Sugar Factories Federation Ltd., said May 10.  Sugar output in India may expand to 25.7 million tons in
the 2011-2012 season, from an estimated 24.12 million tons this
year, Yatin Wadhwana, managing director at Sucden India Pvt.,
said at the  Singapore  conference. The rise would come from
increased plantings, Wadhwana said.  Sugar production from the European Union will climb to 15.3
million tons in the year from May 1, a unit of the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said in a report dated April 8. EU
output includes cane and beet sugar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  