-- 
Sundance Seeking China Partner for $4.7 Billion African Iron Ore Project

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-05-13T03:09:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/sundance-seeking-china-partner-for-4-7-billion-african-iron-ore-project.html
Sundance Resources Ltd., seeking to
develop a $4.7 billion iron ore mine, port and railroad in West
 Africa , may sell as much as half of the project to a Chinese
partner to help fund construction.  “We are targeting to have a strategic partner selected by
the end of June, so we can then move towards a final  investment
decision  towards the end of September,” Giulio Casello, chief
executive officer of the Perth-based company, said in an
interview. “We are getting very strongly focused towards
China.”  Chinese companies are scouring the globe for investments in
steelmaking raw-material assets to feed surging demand in the
world’s fastest growing major economy. A number of groups have
visited the Mbalam project that straddles the border of Cameroon
and Republic of Congo and another potential partner is scheduled
to visit “shortly,” said Casello.  “They need to secure funding partners or off-take
agreements,” Jamie Spiteri, head dealer at Shaw Stockbroking
Ltd. in Sydney, said by phone. “Any news on them finding a
strategic partner would be considered positive.”  A partner would “buy into the project level” and be able
to sign up for sales accords, while Sundance will retain no less
than 50 percent of Mbalam, Casello said in Sydney. The company’s
biggest shareholder is  China ’s Sichuan Hanlong Group, which owns
17.94 percent.  Sundance rose as much as 5.8 percent in Sydney, trading at
35.5 cents at 12:30 p.m. local time, compared with a 0.4 percent
drop in the S&P/ASX 200 Resources Index.  Rio Tinto Group and Vale SA’s are among companies making
acquisitions in Africa. London-based Rio has acquired control of
Riversdale Mining Ltd., which owns coking coal projects in
 Mozambique .  Building Start  Sundance completed a study of Mbalam last month and plans
to start construction at the end of the year. It aims to start
shipping iron ore by 2014 and produce 35 million metric tons a
year. This includes building a 510-kilometer (320-mile) heavy-
haulage railroad through Cameroon and a deep water port for bulk
 iron ore  carriers, Sundance said April 6.  “We’ve had our technical teams in China pretty well full-
time for over three weeks now going through and explaining to
the potential partners how we made up” the study costs, said
Casello. The company last year signed an initial accord with
China Harbour Engineering Co. and China Rail Construction Co. to
study building the port and rail.  Sundance may use China Development Bank Corp. and Export-
Import Bank of China to help arrange financing, given the
existing relationships Sichuan Hanlong, Casello said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  