-- 
SunPower Earnings Trail Behind Estimates After Panel Sales Slow in Europe

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-05-12T22:11:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/sunpower-earnings-trail-behind-estimates-after-panel-sales-slow-in-europe.html
SunPower Corp. (SPWRA) , a U.S. maker of solar
photovoltaic panels, reported first-quarter profit that was less
than analysts’ estimates as sales slowed in Europe.  Earnings excluding some items were 15 cents a share, the
San Jose, California-based company said today in a statement.
That trailed the 17-cent average of 23 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue rose 30 percent from a year earlier to $451
million, which lagged behind the $484.6 million average
estimate.  “Our revenue was lower than plan as a result of changing
market conditions in Europe,”  Tom Werner , SunPower’s president
and chief executive officer, said in the statement.  Italy, the world’s second-largest solar market after
Germany, said last week it will cut incentive rates for
photovoltaic energy. “Revenues and inventory levels in the
first quarter were impacted by the pause in business activity in
 Italy , as several projects awaited clarity on the new tariffs,”
said Dennis Arriola, SunPower’s chief financial officer.  SunPower reported a net loss of $2.1 million, or 2 cents a
share, compared with net income of $12.6 million, or 13 cents, a
year earlier. The most recent quarter had costs totaling 35
cents a share that included such items as stock-based
compensation, interest expenses and a loss on currency
derivatives, as well as a tax-related gain of 18 cents.  Total SA (FP) , Europe’s third-biggest oil producer, agreed April
28 to buy as much as 60 percent of SunPower for $1.38 billion.  “Our relationship with Total will improve our  capital
structure  enabling SunPower to accelerate our power plant and
commercial development businesses, and expand our manufacturing
capacity with lower cash requirements,” said Werner.  SunPower fell 18 cents to $21.20 at 5:35 p.m. in  New York ,
after the close of regular Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  