-- 
SuperGroup Sales Growth Slows on Lack of Summer Stock in Stores

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-05-12T06:25:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/supergroup-sales-growth-slows-on-lack-of-summer-stock-in-stores.html
SuperGroup Plc (SGP) , the U.K. owner of
Superdry fashion brand, said sales growth slowed in the fiscal
fourth quarter as it opened fewer stores and didn’t get its full
range of summer stock to stores in time for the warm weather.  Revenue climbed 61 percent to 66 million pounds ($108
million) in the three months though May 1, the Cheltenham,
England-based retailer said in a statement. That compares with
an 87 percent gain in revenue in the fiscal third quarter.  SuperGroup, which sells $100  hoodies  at 60 stores in the
U.K. including a concession in luxury department store Harrods
Ltd., said full-year pretax profit will be “within the range of
current market expectations.” The retailer opened one store in
the quarter, compared with six in the same period a year ago. A
lack of summer stock in stores “has been addressed,”
SuperGroup said. Last month was the warmest April on record in
the U.K. dating back to 1910, boosting summer clothing demand.  “We expect some slowdown in the stellar growth, with some
cannibalization from online,”  Nick Bubb , an analyst at Arden
Partners with a “buy” recommendation on the stock, said before
the release. “Relative to that growth, we still think the
shares are undervalued.”  SuperGroup rose 5 pence, or 0.3 percent, to 1,574 pence in
London trading yesterday. The stock has climbed 21 percent so
far this year.  The retailer, whose shares have more than tripled since its
March 2010 initial public offering, is extending its range of
brands with new women’s wear and denim items and is opening its
own stores and franchises across  Europe , the Middle East and
 Asia .  Chief Operating Officer Diane Savory left the retailer
earlier this month for personal reasons after 20 years at the
business. SuperGroup said in March that her responsibilities
would be taken over by others in the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Sarah Shannon} in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  