-- 
Syrian Christians Say ‘Arab Spring’ Changes Could Hasten Extinction

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-05-12T21:08:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/syrian-christians-say-arab-spring-changes-could-hasten-extinction.html
As the Arab Spring protests reach
Damascus, Syrian Christians look warily at a future without a
time-tested autocrat to protect them from religious intolerance.  In  Egypt , sectarian violence, an intermittent problem in
the past, flared anew since the ousting of former President
 Hosni Mubarak  in February. Twelve people were killed, hundreds
injured and a church was torched last week in clashes between
Copts and Muslims in Cairo. Christians and secular-leaning
Muslims placed blame on Salafis, who advocate a return to the
practices of Islam’s earliest years.  In  Iraq , where elections followed the U.S.-led invasion,
Christians also have come under attack. Hundreds of thousands
have fled to  Syria , where minority Alawites, a Shiite Muslim
sect, have ruled over the Sunni Muslim majority since President
Bashar al-Assad’s father took power in 1970. They also found
havens in Jordan and Lebanon.  “History has proven to us that Christians have always had
more secure lives, better treatment by people who may be looked
on as dictators, like  Saddam Hussein ,” said  Archbishop Cyril
Aphrem Karim , who leads a U.S. branch of the Syriac Orthodox
Church of Antioch. In Syria, “our feeling is, if the regime
falls, the Salafis and the Muslim Brotherhood will seize power
and that is bad news for us.”  Under the Assad dynasty, Syrian Christians have swelled the
ranks of a professional middle and upper class, enjoying secure
lives while accounting for only one-tenth of the population.  Cyber Dissidents  As the two-month-long demonstrations against Assad’s 11-
year rule have gained momentum, some Christians have taken
leading roles while others have stayed quiet, according to Ahed
Al Hendi, a Syrian Christian who founded the Syrian Youth for
Justice movement and is a member of the human rights group
 cyberdissidents.org  in  Washington .  Many in the Christian community are worried, he said in an
interview. “They saw the Iraqi example, but honestly not all of
them, they want to live in a democratic country.”  Iraq’s Christian population was targeted by extremist
groups after the 2003 war and has fallen to about 500,000 from
about 1 million before the war, according to community group
estimates. The last census was in 1987.  The Syrian regime has fed on the fears of a takeover by
radical Islamists to justify a brutal crackdown against
political opponents. Slogans were spotted during protests in
Damascus that said “Christians to Beirut, Alawis to the
grave,” according to Karim.  “Christians are getting frustrated” at how many people
are getting killed as the army tries to restore order, Syrian
blogger Camille Otrakji, based in  Montreal , wrote in response to
an e-mail. Still, it “is not something they want to say
publicly as it is not proper to criticize the army.”  ‘Depressing Dilemma’  While Western governments have condemned Assad’s actions,
they have stopped short of calling for a regime change.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said May 6 “that they have
an opportunity still to bring about a reform agenda.” Human
rights group Insan said at least 632 people have been confirmed
dead and 2,843 detained since Syria’s unrest began on March 15.  “Christians in Syria, similarly to those in Iraq under
Saddam, face a depressing dilemma,” said Habib Malik, a
professor at the Lebanese American University in  Beirut . “Fears
about open-ended chaos or a Sunni takeover do not mean they
support the existing repressive Baath regimes.”  Syria doesn’t have a state religion. At the same time, the
constitution says the president must be Muslim and the country’s
family law states that a Christian man can’t marry a Muslim
without converting.  2,000 Years  “Christians want what others want: freedom, a say in
shaping their communities and lives,” said Stephen Colecchi,
director of the international justice and peace office at the
U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops. “The question is: will
genuine democracies that respect human rights take the place of
oppressive governments? Not knowing the answer produces fear.”  Karim’s Syriac Orthodox Church of Antioch, the Egyptian
Copts and Iraqi Chaldeans are among the myriad Christian
communities that originated 2,000 years ago in the Middle East.  The bible recounts St. Paul’s conversion to Christianity on
the road to Damascus, whose  Umayyad Mosque  is said to contain
the head of St. John the Baptist. Antioch, in modern-day  Turkey ,
was the site of the first church founded by St. Peter. Syriac, a
dialect of Aramaic, was spoken by Jesus and his apostles.  Still, a history that predates Islam won’t guarantee the
communities’ survival. Today, Lebanon is the only country left
in the Middle East where Christians still hold political
influence, accounting for 39 percent of the population compared
with 3 percent in Iraq, according to the State Department’s
International Religious Freedom Report released last November.  Learning Aramaic  As a young boy in Syria in the 1960s, Karim, now 46,
recalls learning Aramaic at school in Qamishli when the
northeastern Syrian city was made up mostly of Syriac Christians
who had fled  Armenia . Now, Muslims in his hometown outnumber
Christians five to one.  That reversal, reflected elsewhere in the Middle East, has
left  Christian communities  staring at extinction.  Karim, who frequently travels to Washington from his New
Jersey home, has not much faith that the U.S.  will help  after
repeated meetings with State Department officials and lawmakers
such as Representatives Frank Wolf, a Virginia Republican, and
Democrat Anna Eschoo, the  only member  of Congress of Assyrian
descent.  “I don’t feel the U.S. is really concerned by Christians
in the Middle East,” Karim said. “They listen, they show
interest, but we don’t see, especially from the State
Department, tangible signs they are worried and want to do
something for them. There is just not much sympathy.”  -- With assistance from Caroline Alexander in  London . Editors:
Steven Komarow, Terry Atlas  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at  fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  