-- 
Death Toll Mounts in Syria as Army Deploys Tanks Against Demonstrators

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-05-12T12:14:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/syria-death-toll-rises-as-tanks-are-used-to-kill-protesters-activists-say.html
Syria ’s government deployed tanks
against demonstrators, boosting the death toll after almost two
months of unrest, according to Syrian human-rights activists.  At least 24 protesters have been killed in the last two
days, including 13 who died when the village of Hara outside the
southern city of Daraa was shelled, Mahmoud Merhi of the Arab
Organization for Human Rights said by phone from Syria today. At
least six people died in an assault on the city of Homs
yesterday and five in Jassem the past two days, said Merhi and
Ammar Qurabi, the head of the National Organization for Human
Rights. Two soldiers were killed, Merhi said.  Security forces also forcefully dispersed about 2,000
people who had gathered at a demonstration at the residential
compound of a university in the city of Aleppo, Merhi said,
adding that protesters were beaten with clubs.  The Bab Amro neighborhood of Homs, which tanks began
shelling yesterday morning, remains closed, a resident of the
city said in an interview today. Electricity, water and
telecommunications in the neighborhood have been cut, he said.
Buildings were destroyed in the shelling and the number of
people killed may be much higher than what has been reported, he
said, adding that people are calling for protests tomorrow.  Homes Searched  Yesterday’s operations followed attacks the previous day on
demonstrators in the capital, Damascus, and flash-point cities
including Daraa, where the uprising began in mid-March. The
continuing suppression of protests in Syria and Yemen comes
after revolts against longtime leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia 
helped spread unrest through the Middle East.  House-to-house searches and a “large number” of arrests
that began two days ago have continued in the Damascus district
of al-Muadamiya, which was encircled on May 9, Qurabi said. A
curfew is in effect and people have been barred from prayer at
the mosques, he said.  The army has said it is pursuing “terrorist elements” in
the suburbs of Homs, where it arrested “dozens” of wanted
people and confiscated arms and ammunition, the state-run  Syrian
Arab News Agency  reported. The government said on May 5 the army
had begun a gradual retreat from Daraa, where the protests began
in mid-March, after completing its mission by arresting
“terrorist elements and restoring security and calm.”  Hundreds Killed  More than 750 demonstrators have been killed since the
uprising began, according to Qurabi and Merhi, who have compiled
lists of the names of victims. The number of dead probably grew
after yesterday’s shelling and in light of the large number of
people the two men say are missing. As many as 10,000 have been
detained in the past two months, Qurabi has said.  Tanks were headed toward the city of Hama, near Homs, Merhi
said yesterday. Hama was the site of an Islamist-led uprising in
1982 that was crushed by President Bashar al-Assad’s father and
predecessor, Hafez al-Assad, leaving 10,000 people dead. About
100 tanks are positioned along the 45-kilometer (28-mile) road
between Homs and Hama, Qurabi said.  Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said Assad
can’t deny his people’s “indispensable requests for peace and
democracy.” Assad should take immediate democratic steps as the
momentum toward democracy in the Middle East is
“irreversible,” Erdogan said in an interview with PBS’s
 Charlie Rose  in Ankara aired today.  EU Sanctions  The Syrian uprising drew initial pledges of reform from
Assad, who lifted an emergency law in place since 1963 and named
a new government. He hasn’t repeated the assurances in recent
weeks as security forces have stepped up their attacks.  The Interior Ministry said 3,308 people “involved in riot
acts” have surrendered following a government announcement that
those who turned themselves in between May 2 and May 15 would be
exempt from prosecution and punishment, SANA  reported  today. It
said they were released after they vowed not to repeat any act
that harms the security of the state or its citizens.  Germany  warned Syria yesterday that the European Union will
implement additional sanctions that could directly affect Assad
unless his government “immediately and discernibly stops its
aggression.” The EU this week imposed sanctions that include a
visa ban and an asset freeze against 13 Syrian officials and
relatives of the president.  The U.S. has also applied sanctions on Syrian officials.
Syria, under pressure for its suppression of protesters,
yesterday withdrew its bid for a seat on the United Nations
 Human Rights Council .  Most foreign journalists have been banned from Syria and
the government has restricted media access to protest flash
points and made it more difficult to get visas.  Al Jazeera said yesterday that its reporter, Dorothy
Parvaz, who went missing after arriving in Damascus on April 29,
has been deported to  Iran .  Al Jazeera  said it has had no contact
with Parvaz, 39, a U.S., Canadian and Iranian citizen, since she
left Qatar 13 days ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon, at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  