-- 
U.A.E. Lures Investors Roiled by Unrest With Switzerland Appeal

-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 
2011-05-12T07:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/u-a-e-lures-investors-roiled-by-regional-unrest-with-switzerland-appeal.html
The  United Arab Emirates  is
attracting investors seeking a haven as violence roils
governments across the rest of the Middle East.  Abu Dhabi and Dubai have escaped the revolts that toppled
presidents in Egypt and  Tunisia  and have since spread to  Syria ,
Oman, Yemen and  Saudi Arabia , the Gulf region’s largest economy.  Companies in the United Arab Emirates sold $7.35 billion of
bonds so far this year, more than three times the $2.1 billion
they raised in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Bond sales in the wider Middle East and
 Africa  region dropped 34 percent in the same period, the data
show. State-owned Dubai World signed a final agreement with its
creditors in March to restructure about $25 billion of debt,
boosting investor confidence in Dubai and the rest of the U.A.E.  “The United Arab Emirates is seen to be very stable and
has come to be known as the  Switzerland  of the Middle East,”
said Christopher Laing, head of Middle East and North Africa
equity capital markets at  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)  “In the long term
that’s very positive. We are seeing flows back into Dubai.”  The amount raised in debt offerings in the whole Middle
East and Africa region fell to $7.52 billion this year from
$11.39 billion in the year-earlier period, Bloomberg data show.  U.A.E.-based companies issued the most bonds in the Middle
East and Africa this year, surpassing companies and governments
in  Bahrain  and Saudi Arabia, the biggest sellers in the same
period in 2010, the data show.  ‘Winners and Losers’  “There are winners and losers,” said Mark Watts, head of
fixed-income at National Bank of Abu Dhabi’s asset management
group, which manages 4.1 billion dirhams ($1.1 billion) in
assets worldwide. “There are those countries that have come out
unscathed and those countries that are likely to continue to be
treated with caution by the market.”  Deutsche Bank is the top-ranked underwriter on bond sales
in the region this year, with $935.5 million of deals, up from
fourth place in 2010, Bloomberg data show.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
slipped to seventh place this year, from first spot in 2010. The
London-based bank advised on $662.8 million of deals this year,
compared with $2.92 billion a year earlier.  “The region has slowed, but this should not be seen as a
halt,” said Simon Cooper, chief executive officer of HSBC Bank
Middle East Ltd. “Many of the fundamentals of the region, such
as a young population and hydrocarbon wealth, remain, and these
will be at the heart of a recovery.”  ‘Flight to Stability’  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, the ninth-placed bond
underwriter in the Gulf Cooperation Council, is seeing strong
interest in bond sales from Qatar and Abu Dhabi, as well as
growing interest in Dubai, according to Jacco Keijzer, the
bank’s head of debt capital markets in the region.  “We are very much seeing a flight to stability,” he said.  International Petroleum Investment Co., owned by the
government of  Abu Dhabi , raised $4.37 billion from a bond sale
in March to help fund acquisitions, including its 3.97 billion-
euro offer to buy the remaining shares it doesn’t own in Spanish
oil company Cia. Espanola de Petroleos SA,  Fitch Ratings  said in
a March 7 report. Banco Santander SA, BNP Paribas SA, Credit
Agricole CIB, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
 Italy ’s UniCredit SpA managed the sale.  Mubadala Development Co., the Abu Dhabi sovereign wealth
fund that owns stakes in  Carlyle Group  and General Electric Co.,
raised $1.5 billion in a bond offering the following month.  Cost of Debt  Dubai received at least $1 billion in bids for bonds
backed by future road-toll receipts, more than the government’s
target, two bankers with knowledge of the plan said May 3. There
was strong interest from international banks, financial
institutions and pension funds for the $800 million
securitization, said one of the bankers, who declined to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Even so, companies selling debt are offering investors
greater premiums over government debt of a comparable maturity
to woo investors. The average yield on bonds from the six-nation
Gulf Cooperation Council gained 16 basis points in the first
quarter of 2011 to 5.4 percent on March 31, the HSBC/NASDAQ
Dubai GCC Conventional U.S. Dollar Bond Index shows. On March
18, the yield rose to a year high of 5.98 percent as violence
escalated in Bahrain and Yemen.  Doha Bank QSC (DHBK) , Qatar’s fourth-biggest lender by assets, may
delay a bond sale until next year because of costs, chief
executive officer Raghavan Seetharaman said April 26.  “Issuers coming to the market in the first quarter of 2011
have generally paid a higher price for their debt then may have
been the case in the fourth quarter of 2010,” said Steve Drake,
head of capital markets at PWC in Dubai. ‘We have seen some
issuances deferred.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  