-- 
U.K. House Prices Increase on Buyer Surge to Beat Government Tax Increase

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-05-12T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/u-k-property-prices-increased-0-3-in-april-acadametrics-says.html
U.K. house prices rose in April as
buyers rushed to beat a sales-tax increase, research company
Acadametrics Ltd. and LSL Property Services Plc said.  The average price of a home in England and  Wales  increased
0.3 percent from March to 223,352 pounds ($363,300), the groups
estimated in an e-mailed report in  London  today. From a year
earlier, prices were up 0.9 percent.  The government raised a property transfer tax known as
stamp duty for homes costing more than 1 million pounds in April
as part of measures to tackle the  budget deficit . The property-
market recovery may still struggle to sustain momentum this year
as banks maintain tight lending standards.  “Rising prices at the top of the market have held up
property prices,” said David Newnes, managing director at LSL.
“The market remains hampered by tight mortgage lending. The
prospect of a rise in unemployment will create growing
uncertainty as the year goes on.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  increased stamp
duty to 5 percent from 4 percent on April 6. Acadametrics said
the number of properties above the 1 million-pound threshold
sold in the first five days of the month was more than the
historical average for the month.  Three of the 10 regions tracked by the groups showed
increases in April from March, with the biggest gains in London
and the South East, which have a higher proportion of properties
above 1 million pounds.  Transactions  The number of transactions fell about 6 percent in April,
due to consecutive bank holidays to mark Easter and the wedding
of  Prince William  and  Kate Middleton . The total was the second
lowest for the month since records began in 1996, the report
said. April normally shows a monthly increase of 2.3 percent.  Bank of England  data this month showed lenders granted
47,775 home loans in March, less than half the levels seen
around the peak of the housing boom at the end of 2006.  A report today by e.surv chartered surveyors showed credit
availability may be improving. Homes selling for less than
125,000 pounds accounted for 27 percent of mortgage approvals in
April, up from 20 percent a year earlier. Conditions for first-
time buyers are improving, e.surv said, as the average loan for
the cheapest homes rose to 68 percent of the property’s value
from 64 percent.  Other reports on the  property market  this week have been
mixed. The  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said May 10
its house-price gauge rose to the highest level in nine months
in April.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s Halifax division said a day
earlier prices fell 1.4 percent, the most in seven months.  Households are under pressure from the government’s fiscal
squeeze and inflation that’s twice the central bank’s 2 percent
target. The number of properties repossessed by banks rose 15
percent in the first quarter to 9,100 from the previous three
months, the  Council of Mortgage Lenders  said yesterday.  Acadametrics and LSL combine initial housing transaction
data from the U.K. Land Registry and results from other price
measures to produce an estimate for the most recent month. That
number is then revised in following months.  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  