-- 
U.S. Treasury Department Schedule for Thursday, May 12

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-05-12T12:19:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/u-s-treasury-department-schedule-for-thursday-may-12.html
The following is a reformatted
version of the U.S. Treasury Department’s daily release on the
schedule for Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and other officials:  At 9:30 a.m. on Thursday, Deputy Secretary Wolin will
testify before the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs on “Oversight of Dodd-Frank Implementation:
Monitoring Systemic Risk and Promoting Financial Stability.”
The Deputy Secretary will discuss the guiding principles for the
Department’s reform efforts, including quick, careful and
transparent implementation of the legislation. He will also
provide an update on some of the new institutions created under
the Dodd-Frank Act, including the Financial Stability Oversight
Council and the Office of Financial Research. The hearing, which
will be held in the Dirksen Senate Office Building, is open
press.  On Thursday morning, Secretary Geithner will attend the
President’s meeting with the Senate Republican Caucus at the
White House to discuss his legislative agenda and look for
common ground on important issues, particularly the need for a
balanced approach in confronting the nation’s long-term deficit
challenges. This meeting is closed press.  In the afternoon, the Secretary will attend the Vice
President’s meeting at Blair House with a bipartisan, bicameral
group of Members of Congress to continue work on a legislative
framework for comprehensive deficit reduction. Participants in
the meeting will include the Vice President, Senator Daniel
Inouye, Senator  Jon Kyl , Senator  Max Baucus , Representative Eric
Cantor, Representative James Clyburn, Representative  Chris Van
Hollen , Director of the Office of Management and Budget Jacob
Lew, and Director of the National Economic Council Gene
Sperling. This meeting is closed press; please contact the White
House Press Office for additional information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in  Washington  
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  