-- 
U.S. Money Funds, Rajaratnam Trial, German Banks: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-05-12T12:16:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/u-s-money-funds-rajaratnam-guilty-german-banks-compliance.html
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Chairman Sheila Bair called money-market mutual funds
“destabilizing” to the financial system and said investors
would be served just as well if share prices floated.  “Money-market funds are maintaining a fiction of a
stable” net-asset value, as shown by the September 2008 failure
of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund, Bair said May 10 at a
round-table meeting of fund-company executives and regulators
arranged by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in
Washington. “That is skewing investment dollars into a
structure that is highly unstable in a crisis.”  Former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul A. Volcker called a
floating share price the “simplest” solution to the risk posed
by money funds, which trade at a constant $1 a share.  Their remarks lent support to proposals fund executives
have said may ruin the product’s appeal to investors, and its
role as the biggest collective provider of short-term financing
for U.S. corporations through the commercial-paper market. Calls
to make funds safer began after Reserve Primary’s collapse
helped freeze global credit markets. The SEC, after passing
rules last year that made funds more liquid and more
transparent, is considering whether further changes are needed.  Representatives of Fidelity Investments, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and  Federated Investors Inc. (FII) , the three biggest money-fund
providers, defended the business as popular among investors and
crucial to the financing of U.S. companies and municipalities.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Bernanke Says Fed Will Propose Financial Rules in Coming Months  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central
bank plans to propose regulations within the next few months for
financial firms whose failure may endanger the financial system.  “We anticipate putting out a package of proposed rules for
comment this summer” covering areas including “enhanced”
capital requirements and annual Fed stress tests, pursuant to
the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, Bernanke said in testimony prepared
for a  Senate Banking Committee  hearing today. The Fed posted the
testimony on its website yesterday.  Hungary May Use Tax Break for Banks to Boost Loans, Help Debtors  Hungary, which last year imposed a special tax on banks to
plug budget holes, may give a tax discount to lenders to spur
lending and protect mortgage holders, a study posted on the
Economy Ministry  website  shows.  The government, which banned evictions until July 1, may
also offer subsidized housing loans to help the construction
industry, according to the ministry’s  strategic working paper ,
published yesterday.  The government wants to protect foreign-currency borrowers
who are unable to make payments while encouraging lending to
support the country’s economic recovery. Hungary, facing the
risk of its credit rating being cut to junk, is also seeking to
avoid added budget spending.  Apart from OTP Bank Nyrt., the country’s largest lender,
Hungary’s financial industry is dominated by foreign-owned banks
including the units of  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ,  Bayerische Landesbank ,
 Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI)  and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   Another proposal is to set up a National Asset Manager to
pool real estate of borrowers who can’t make their payments
because of reasons “outside of their control.” Banks would be
able to transfer the loans and the collateral to the asset
manager in exchange for “long-maturity special” government
bonds.  Compliance Action  U.K. FSA  Insider-Trading  Probes to Target London’s ‘Bigger Fry’  The U.K.’s  Financial Services Authority  will focus its
insider-trading investigations on senior London financial
workers as part of its deterrence strategy, the finance
watchdog’s acting enforcement chief said.  The FSA, which was set up in 1997 and prosecuted its first
criminal case of insider trading in 2008, is “determined to
take insider dealing enforcement right into the heart of the
city,” Tracey McDermott, acting head of enforcement at the FSA,
said in an interview in London hours before Galleon Group LLC
co-founder Raj Rajaratnam was convicted in New York of insider
trading yesterday.  “We recognize the need to go after bigger fry, not because
they’re wealthy or high profile -- we want to go after the
people we actually think are causing the most damage to the
market,” said McDermott, who took over earlier this year from
Margaret Cole, who has gone on to lead a another agency unit.  The FSA is imposing stricter supervision after being
criticized for failing to prevent the U.K.’s worst financial
crisis since the Second World War. The regulator in February
secured the longest-ever U.K. sentence for insider trading when
former Dresdner Kleinwort banker Christian Littlewood was
imprisoned for 40 months after admitting illegally trading over
a 10-year period, along with his wife and an accomplice.  National regulators in the 27-member European Union may get
powers to take action against traders who attempt to manipulate
the market under proposals from the  European Commission  to
review market abuse laws, due to be published as soon as July.  Special Section: Rajaratnam Verdict  Rajaratnam Guilty on All Counts in U.S. Insider-Trading Case  Raj Rajaratnam, the hedge-fund tycoon and Galleon Group LLC
co-founder at the center of a U.S. insider-trading crackdown,
was found guilty of all 14 counts against him in the largest
illegal stock-tipping case in a generation.  A jury of eight women and four men in Manhattan returned
its verdict yesterday after hearing evidence that Rajaratnam,
53, engaged in a seven-year conspiracy to trade on inside
information from corporate executives, bankers, consultants,
traders and directors of public companies including  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  He gained $63.8 million, prosecutors said.  John Dowd , an attorney for Rajaratnam, said he will appeal
the verdict.  The trial came as Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
promised to crack down on “rampant” illegal trading on  Wall
Street . Rajaratnam was convicted on five counts of conspiracy
and nine counts of  securities fraud . Conspiracy carries a
maximum sentence of five years; securities fraud can bring 20
years in prison. Prosecutors yesterday said he faces between 15
1/2 and 19 1/2 years in prison at his July 29 sentencing.  Galleon was among the 10 largest hedge funds in the world
in the early years of the last decade. It managed $7 billion at
its peak in 2008. Rajaratnam’s net worth of $1.3 billion made
him the 559th richest person in the world, Forbes Magazine said
in 2009.  The case was the first one focused exclusively on insider
trading in which prosecutors wiretapped their targets’ telephone
conversations, a tactic used in organized crime investigations.
Jurors heard more than 40 recordings of Rajaratnam, in some of
which he can be heard gathering secrets from his sources.  Rajaratnam used inside information to trade ahead of public
announcements about earnings, forecasts, mergers and spinoffs
involving more than a dozen companies, according to the evidence
at the trial.  His case was the most prominent amid a widespread U.S.
crackdown on insider trading. In New York, the Galleon probe and
related cases have led to more than 40 arrests since 2009 and
guilty pleas from about 30 of the accused. A related case
against former Galleon trader Zvi Goffer is scheduled for trial
this month.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more about the trial, click here.  For video of defense attorney John Dowd after the verdict,
click here.  For more about other insider-trading cases, click here.  For a video report on the verdict, click here.  For commentary by Harvey Pitt on why the verdict is a
“wake-up call,” click here.  For commentary by Robert Thompson, who called the appeal an
“uphill battle,” click here.  For commentary by Don Steinbrugge, who said the jury made
“the right decision,” click here.  For commentary by  Andrew Stoltmann  on likely sentencing,
click here.  For commentary by Mark Rifkin on likely sentencing, click
here.  For commentary by Bruce Baird on the role of audio tapes in
the trial, click here.  For commentary by Ron Geffner on why evidence of guilt
“was overwhelming,” click here.  For commentary by Alan Dershowitz on appellate strategy and
likelihood of bail pending appeal in the case, click here.  Courts  JPMorgan Wins Bid to Have $112 Million CDO Case Heard in U.K.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-largest U.S. bank by
assets, won a challenge at the European Union’s highest court to
have a collateralized-debt obligation dispute over $112 million
dealt with by the U.K. courts.  Disputes of a contractual nature are mainly about questions
on a contract’s validity and this doesn’t justify having such
disputes heard in the country where one of the parties
challenging the validity of the contract is based, the  EU Court
of Justice  in Luxembourg ruled today.  The ruling relates to two cases at the Luxembourg-based EU
court over whether disputes between JPMorgan and the city of
Berlin’s transportation provider BVG about a 2007 derivatives
transaction should be heard in the U.K. or Germany. JPMorgan in
2008 sued BVG in the U.K., arguing the contract said any dispute
would be handled in British courts. BVG sued JPMorgan in Berlin
in 2009 seeking to annul what it called an invalid deal.  The decision may influence dozens of lawsuits over losses
on swap agreements between local governments and community-owned
utilities in the U.K., Germany and Italy on one hand, and banks
including  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Depfa Bank Plc on
the other. While municipalities are increasingly filing suits at
home claiming they weren’t properly advised of risks or that
swaps were unlawfully settled, the banks are turning to U.K.
courts where they expect to get swifter rulings.  The case is C-144/10, Berliner Verkehrsbetriebe (BVG),
Anstalt des oeffentlichen Rechts v JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A.,
Frankfurt Branch.  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  All German Landesbanken to Pass EU Stress Test, VOeB Says  Germany’s Landesbanken will probably pass the European
Union’s stress tests, even as this year’s examinations exclude
some forms of capital, said Christian Brand, the head of the
 Association of German Public Sector Banks , or VOeB.  He made the remarks at a press conference in Frankfurt
yesterday.  The  European Banking Authority  is applying a tougher
capital measure to 90 lenders across the region in this year’s
assessment. Silent participations, a non-voting type of capital
used in Germany, will only be recognized if it was provided as
aid during the financial crisis, sparking concern over the test
performance of Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen and Norddeutsche
Landesbank Girozentrale, which didn’t need a bailout.  “I still think it’s wrong not to recognize parts of core
capital that’s accepted under current banking supervision and by
Basel III until 2018,” Brand said, reiterating comments made in
April.  The publication of the stress-test results is scheduled for
June.  Mergers among Germany’s state-owned lenders only make sense
if business models complement each other, and the creation of a
“super-Landesbank” may pose a systemic risk, Brand said.
Berlin-based VOeB represents 62 institutions, including the
country’s Landesbanken.  For more, click here.  Gonzalez-Paramo Says Debt Default Would Irreversibly Harm Greece  European Central Bank  Executive Board member Jose Manuel
Gonzalez-Paramo said a debt default would have an extremely
adverse impact on the Greek economy and the nation must
implement its fiscal consolidation program.  “Far from being a convenient means of minimizing economic
losses and dissipating uncertainty, a default would have extreme
adverse consequences, many of an irreversible nature, for the
Greek economy -- particularly for its banking sector and for the
welfare of its citizens,” Gonzalez-Paramo said in a speech in
Madrid today. “The thorough implementation of the comprehensive
program of structural reforms and fiscal consolidation
negotiated with the international authorities is the only way
forward which is fully consistent with the long-term interests
of the people of Greece.”  Gonzalez-Paramo said he’s surprised to hear calls for
Greece to default or restructure its debt.  “I am rather surprised to see the flippancy with which
some commentators recommend that the government of an advanced
economy should infringe its legal and contractual obligations,
as though breaching the trust of investors and citizens were the
simplest and least costly solution to the deeply rooted
structural problems in Greece.”  Comings and Goings  Ex-Credit Agricole Banker Has Race-Discrimination Award Reduced  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , France’s third-biggest lender, won a
U.K. court bid to cut the 375,000 pounds ($617,250) in
compensation awarded to a London banker who was refused
promotion because of his British nationality.  An employment tribunal overestimated the financial loss
suffered by Michael Wardle, who worked at the bank’s Calyon unit
before taking a job at the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority
that paid less than the one he was denied, three judges at the
Court of Appeal ruled yesterday.  The former Global Head of Exotic Interest Rate Derivatives
Risk Management was awarded the compensation in 2010 after he
was fired for complaining that a French national was promoted
over him. Wardle, then on a salary of 104,000 pounds, was turned
down for a promotion that was set to start in January 2008,
according to the ruling. He was dismissed in July 2008 after he
alleged racial discrimination. The Employment Tribunal in London
found in his favor.  Patrick Elias, one of the judges, said in his part of the
ruling that it was “reasonable” to conclude that Wardle would
obtain an equivalent job.  Elias didn’t specify how much Wardle should be awarded. He
asked for written arguments from counsel to fix the sum.  Wardle’s law firm,  Pritchard Englefield , and Credit
Agricole didn’t respond to messages seeking comment.  Juncker Seeks Eurogroup Backing for Draghi at May 16 Meeting  Jean-Claude Juncker, who leads the group of euro-area
finance ministers, said he will seek the so-called eurogroup’s
backing next week for Mario Draghi to be the next president of
the European Central Bank.  An endorsement at the May 16 meeting of the euro-area
ministers would be “desirable,” Juncker said today in Mainz,
Germany. “In any case, I have put it on the agenda of the
eurogroup meeting.” The gathering starts at 5 p.m. in Brussels.  Italian Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti said yesterday
that he officially backed the candidacy of Draghi, the head of
the Bank of Italy, to succeed ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet
when his term ends in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 