-- 
Treasury Five-Year Yields Touch Lowest Since March on China Growth Outlook

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-05-12T11:58:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/u-s-treasury-five-year-notes-advance-on-safety-demand-as-equities-decline.html
Treasury five-year note yields
touched the lowest level since March on concern  China  will take
further action to contain inflation by slowing growth, pushing
global equities down.  Five-year note yields earlier dropped after China raised
banks’ reserve requirements by 0.5 percentage point effective
May 18. Yields on 30-year securities were at almost the lowest
level since December as the U.S. prepared to sell $16 billion of
the debt in the last of three note and bond auctions this week
totaling $72 billion.  “Treasuries are supported by the general market angst
about falling equities,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income
strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in  London . “Today’s
30-year auction will be a reasonable test for the markets, given
the low yield levels we’re at.”  Yields on five-year notes dropped one basis points, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.84 percent at 7:55 a.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
security due in April 2016 rose 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000
face amount to 100 3/4.  Five-year note yields touched 1.82 percent, the lowest
level since March 17. Yields on 30-year bonds fell one basis
point to 4.29 percent following a drop to 4.25 percent on May 5,
the lowest level since Dec. 7.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares slid 1.6 percent
after a three-day gain. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 1.2
percent. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.6
percent after the index’s 1.1 percent drop yesterday.  China’s Inflation  Consumer prices in China rose 5.3 percent in April from a
year earlier, almost the fastest rate since July 2008, and banks
extended 740 billion yuan ($114 billion) of local-currency
loans, according to reports yesterday from the statistics bureau
and the central bank.  Inflation is “the most pressing problem,” Vice Premier
Wang Qishan said this week.  Monetary policy  will remain
“prudent” and focus on removing “inflationary monetary
elements,” Chinese officials said in a statement in Washington
after talks with the U.S.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the debt known as the
break-even rate, shrank today to 2.41 percentage points from
2.67 percentage points on April 11, the widest in three years.  The spread was headed for its fifth week of narrowing, the
longest stretch since the financial crisis of 2008 caused
inflation expectations to plunge.  Fidelity’s View  Fidelity Investments , the Boston fund company that oversees
$1.64 trillion, said Treasuries should be a “core component”
of investor portfolios because inflation is low.  Investors who are “neutral” on U.S. debt should have
about 30 percent of their bond portfolio in Treasuries, Claus te Wildt, a senior vice president and researcher at the company,
wrote in a  report  yesterday on its website. The recommendation
contrasts with that of  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest
bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,
 California , and is betting against America’s sovereign debt.  “ Interest rates  could stay low for quite some time due to
a lack of inflation,” te Wildt wrote. “Treasuries should
remain a core component of a diversified portfolio.”  The 30-year Treasuries being sold today yielded 4.31
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 4.531 percent at
the previous offering on April 14.  Auction Demand  Investors bid for 2.83 times the amount of debt offered
last month, versus an average of 2.70 for the past 10 sales.
Indirect bidders, the investor group that includes foreign
central banks, bought 47.2 percent, versus the 10-auction
average of 40.9 percent.  The Treasury auctioned $24 billion of 10-year notes
yesterday and $32 billion of three-year debt the day before.
This week’s sales all raise new cash rather than partially
replacing maturing securities.  Retail sales climbed 0.6 percent in April, following a 0.4
percent increase in March, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey before the Commerce Department’s report
today. Other data may show fewer workers filed claims for
jobless benefits, and producer prices rose, according to
separate surveys.  The 10-year yield will rise to 3.91 percent by year-end,
according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
financial companies, with the most recent forecasts given the
heaviest weightings.  U.S. debt  posted the best returns in April since August,
gaining 1.2 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes. Treasuries have returned 0.7 percent in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  