-- 
U.S. April Producer Price Index Report (Text)

-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 
2011-05-12T12:30:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/u-s-april-producer-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the U.S.
producer price report for April released by the Labor Department.  PRODUCER PRICE INDEXES - APRIL 2011  The Producer Price Index for finished goods rose 0.8
percent in April, seasonally adjusted, the  U.S. Bureau of
Labor Statistics  reported today. This advance followed
increases of 0.7 percent in March and 1.6 percent in February.
At the earlier stages of processing, prices received by
manufacturers of intermediate goods climbed 1.3 percent in
April, and the crude goods index rose 4.0 percent. On an
unadjusted basis, prices for finished goods moved up 6.8
percent for the 12 months ended April 2011, the largest year-
over-year gain since an 8.8-percent increase in September
2008.  Stage of Processing Analysis  About three quarters of the April advance in the finished
goods index can be traced to a 2.5-percent jump in prices for
finished energy goods. Also contributing to the rise in the
finished goods index, prices for both finished goods other
than foods and energy and for finished consumer foods moved up
0.3 percent in April.  Finished energy:  Prices for finished energy goods increased 2.5 percent in
April, the seventh consecutive monthly advance. Over half of
the April rise can be attributed to the gasoline index, which
climbed 3.6 percent. Higher prices for liquefied petroleum gas
and residential natural gas also were  factors in the increase
in the finished energy goods index.  Finished core:  The index for finished goods less foods and energy moved
up 0.3 percent in April, the fifth straight monthly rise.
Nearly one-fourth of the April monthly advance can be traced
to a 1.2-percent jump in civilian aircraft prices. An increase
in the index for light motor trucks also contributed
significantly to the rise in finished core prices.  Finished foods:  Prices for finished consumer foods rose 0.3 percent in
April after falling 0.2 percent in the prior month. Leading
this advance, the index for eggs for fresh use surged 56.7
percent.  Intermediate goods  The Producer Price Index for intermediate materials,
supplies, and components rose 1.3 percent in April, the ninth
consecutive monthly advance. The broad-based April increase
was led by prices for intermediate goods less foods and
energy, which moved up 1.1 percent. The indexes for
intermediate energy goods and for intermediate foods and feeds
also contributed to the intermediate goods advance, rising 1.9
percent and 1.8 percent, respectively. For the 12 months ended
April 2011, prices for intermediate goods climbed 9.4 percent,
the largest increase since a 9.8-percent jump in October 2008.  Intermediate core:  Prices for intermediate goods less foods and energy moved
up 1.1 percent in April, the ninth consecutive monthly rise.
About fifteen percent of the April gain can be attributed to
the index for primary basic organic chemicals, which increased
3.2 percent. Higher prices for ethanol and steel mill products
also contributed to the advance in intermediate core prices.  Intermediate energy:  The index for intermediate energy goods climbed 1.9
percent in April, the smallest advance since a 1.5-percent
increase in November 2010. Prices for diesel fuel, which moved
up 3.5 percent, were a significant contributor to the April
rise. Higher prices for gasoline also were a factor in the
increase in the intermediate energy goods index.  Intermediate foods:  The intermediate foods and feeds index advanced 1.8
percent in April, the ninth straight monthly increase. A 5.6-
percent jump in prices for beef and veal accounted for a
quarter of the April advance in the intermediate foods and
feeds index.  Crude goods  The Producer Price Index for crude materials for further
processing increased 4.0 percent in April. For the 3 months
ending in April, prices for crude materials moved up 7.0
percent following an 11.4-percent jump for the 3 months ending
in January. Leading the broad-based monthly advance in April,
the index for crude energy materials rose 4.8 percent. Prices
for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs and for crude nonfood
materials less energy increased 4.0 percent and 2.6 percent,
respectively.  Crude energy:  The index for crude energy materials moved up 4.8 percent
in April. From January to April, crude energy prices advanced
5.3 percent compared with a 17.9-percent jump in the previous
3-month period. For the month of April, the index for natural
gas rose 9.4 percent, accounting for over half of the increase
in prices for crude energy materials. Advances in the indexes
for crude petroleum and coal also contributed to higher crude
energy prices.  Crude foods:  Prices for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs advanced 4.0
percent in April. For the 3 months ending in April, the index
for crude foods jumped 11.4 percent subsequent to moving up
5.5 percent from October to January. Accounting for about half
of the monthly rise in April, the grains index increased 15.5
percent. Higher prices for slaughter steers and heifers also
were a factor in the advance in the crude foods index.  Crude core:  The index for crude nonfood materials less energy rose
2.6 percent in April. From January to April, crude core prices
moved up 2.5 percent after a 10.1-percent advance in the
previous 3-month period. For the month of April, a 4.5-percent
increase in the index for copper base scrap was a factor in
higher crude core prices.  Services Analysis
Trade industries:  The Producer Price Index for the net output of total
trade industries moved up 0.1 percent in April, the third
consecutive increase. (Trade indexes measure changes in
margins received by wholesalers and retailers.) Leading the
April advance was a 5.3-percent increase in margins received
by department stores. Higher margins received by women's
clothing stores and by electronic shopping and mail order
houses also contributed significantly to the rise in the total
trade industries index.  Transportation and warehousing industries:  The Producer Price Index for the net output of
transportation and warehousing industries rose 0.3 percent in
April, the seventh consecutive increase. Accounting for forty-
five percent of the April advance, prices received by couriers
climbed 1.4 percent. Increases in the indexes for long
distance general freight trucking (truckload) and line-haul
railroads also were factors in the April rise in the
transportation and warehousing industries index.  Traditional  service industries :  The Producer Price Index for the net output of total
traditional service industries moved up 0.7 percent in April
after no change in the previous month. Leading this advance,
prices received by the depository credit intermediation
industry group rose 7.3 percent. Higher prices received by
insurance carriers and by general medical and surgical
hospitals also contributed to the increase in the total
traditional service industries index.  The Producer Price Index for May 2011 is scheduled to be
released on Tuesday, June 14, 2011 at 8:30 a.m. (EDT).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington   cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  