-- 
U.S. Energy Department Natural Gas Update for May 11 (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-05-12T18:09:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/u-s-energy-department-natural-gas-update-for-may-11-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
natural gas update as released by the U.S. Department of Energy
in Washington D.C.:  Natural gas prices fell across the board as oil prices dropped
steeply along with most other major commodities. At the  Henry
Hub , the natural gas spot price fell 36 cents from $4.59 per
million Btu (MMBtu) on Wednesday, May 4, to $4.23 per MMBtu on
Wednesday, May 11.  At the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the price of the near-month
natural gas contract (June 2011) dropped almost 9 percent,
falling from $4.577 per MMBtu last Wednesday to $4.181 yesterday.  Working natural gas in storage rose by 70 billion cubic feet
(Bcf) to 1,827 Bcf, according to EIA’s Weekly Natural Gas
Storage Report.  The natural gas rotary rig count, as reported by Baker Hughes
Incorporated on May 6, increased by 8 rigs to 890. Oil rigs,
which recently overtook natural gas rigs, also rose by 8 to 934.  Prices  Natural gas wholesale prices dropped by up to 75 cents per MMBtu
last week. The decline in natural gas prices coincided with a
precipitous drop this week in  oil prices ; on Thursday, May 5,
the West Texas Intermediate crude oil spot price dropped from
$108.79 per barrel to settled at $99.89 per barrel. This was the
5th-largest one-day decline ever in the WTI price. Yesterday,
the WTI price settled at $97.88 per barrel.  In addition to the general commodity market downturn, decreased
demand for space heating due to mild temperatures and warmer
weather relative to last week placed downward pressure on
natural gas prices. Price declines were largest in the Northeast
United States; at the Iroquois Zone 2 trading point the spot
price fell from $5.50 per MMBtu last week to $4.75 per MMBtu
yesterday. At Transcontinental Pipeline’s Zone 6 pricing point
for delivery into  New York City , the spot price dropped 53 cents,
from $4.99 per MMBtu to $4.46 per MMBtu. Most price declines
across the country were between 30 and 45 cents per MMBtu. At
the Henry Hub, the natural gas spot price dropped 36 cents on
the week, from $4.59 per MMBtu last week to $4.23 yesterday.  This week’s drop in prices is a reversal from a run-up over the
past month. At the Henry Hub, prices had steadily increased
since the beginning of April, but made a swift reversal after
reaching 4.60 per MMBtu last week, the highest price since early
February. Despite the run-up that occurred, prices were still
moderate. The decline in natural gas prices this week mirrored
declines in other commodity prices across the board.  Natural gas consumption fell by 7 percent from last week, while
supply fell slightly, according to data from BENTEK Energy.
Decreases in residential and commercial demand a reflection of
the warm temperatures largely accounted for the overall decline
in consumption. However, compared with the same week last year,
residential and commercial consumption was about 1 percent
higher. Electric power consumption increased by almost 5 percent
from last week, likely reflecting cooling demand in areas of the
 United States  where average temperatures reached into the upper
70s. Production was up slightly from last week, and almost 7
percent from the same week last year, but overall supply fell by
about .2 percent as Canadian pipeline imports and LNG imports
both fell. LNG imports dropped about 20 percent from last week
and were down 40 percent from the same week last year.
Reflecting continued weakness in LNG imports, this week Southern
Union and BG Group filed an application with the U.S. Department
of Energy for permission to export domestically produced natural
gas from the Lake Charles LNG import terminal in Louisiana.  Spot Prices  The NYMEX price dropped almost 9 percent, falling from $4.577
per MMBtu last Wednesday to $4.181 yesterday. The largest daily
decline occurred Thursday, when prices dropped almost 32 cents
from their Wednesday close. The 12-month strip (the average
price of all of the natural gas futures contracts from June 2011
to May 2012) fell from $4.898 per MMBtu last Wednesday to $4.545
per MMBtu yesterday.  Storage  Working natural gas in storage was 1,827 Bcf as of Friday, May 6,
according to EIA’s WNGSR (see Storage Figure
 http://tonto.eia.doe.gov/oog/info/ngw/storagefig.html ). The 70-
Bcf net injection was once again smaller than last year and the
5-year average. Stocks continue to run below the 5-year (2006-
2010) average of 1,864 Bcf despite high domestic production.
Stocks last year were over 200 Bcf higher at 2,076 Bcf. Most of
the shortfall can be found in the East Region which is currently
21 percent below last year and 13 percent below the 5-year
average.  This week’s build nearly matched the week before, which saw the
largest net builds so far this year in all three regions. The
East and West Regions repeated builds from last week of 41 and 7
Bcf, respectively, while the Producing Region saw a slightly
smaller 22 Bcf build compared to 24 Bcf last week. Each region
injected less than the 5-year average.  Temperatures in the lower 48 States during the week ending May 5
averaged 56.6 degrees, 1.7 degrees cooler than normal and 5.7
degrees colder than last year. According to the  National Weather
Service ’s degree-day data, temperatures were above average in
the Northeast, colder in the Midwest, and mixed in the South and
West (see Temperature Maps and Data
 http://tonto.eia.doe.gov/oog/info/ngw/maps.html ). Gas weighted
heating degree days were 17 percent above normal for the week,
but cooling degree days were 15 percent below normal. As
national temperatures continue to rise, cooling degree days will
begin to have a major impact on natural gas storage figures, as
high power demand is often driven by high temperatures during
the summertime.  Other Market Trends  Secretary Chu Forms Committee to Evaluate Effects of Fracturing.
U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu on May 5 announced the
formation of a group of environmental, industry, and state
regulatory experts who will make recommendations to improve the
safety and environmental performance of natural gas hydraulic
fracturing from shale formations. Within 90 days of beginning
their work, the new advisory committee will report on any
immediate steps that can be taken to improve the safety and
environmental performance of hydraulic fracturing, a technique
that has been widespread in the natural gas industry but has
come under scrutiny as drilling in shale formations has
increased in recent years. The committee will also develop,
within six months, a series of recommendations to the agencies
on practices for shale extraction that ensure protection of
public health and the environment. Membership of the committee
includes: John Deutch, Institute Professor at MIT (Chair);
Stephen Holditch, Head of the Department of Petroleum
Engineering,  Texas A&M University ; Fred Krupp, President,
Environmental Defense Fund; Kathleen McGinty, Former Secretary
of the  Pennsylvania  Department of Environmental Protection;
Susan Tierney, Managing Principal, Analysis Group;  Daniel Yergin ,
Chairman, IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates; Mark Zoback,
Professor of Geophysics,  Stanford University .  EIA Forecasts Slower Production Growth in 2011. In EIA’s Short-
Term Energy Outlook  http://www.eia.doe.gov/steo/  (STEO),
released May 10, 2011, EIA forecasts that natural gas marketed
production will increase 2.3 percent in 2011, considerably less
than the 4.4 percent growth in 2010. The updated forecast
incorporates a decrease of 1.1 Bcf per day in marketed natural
gas production in February 2011, which was largely due to
temporary factors including seasonal maintenance in the  Gulf of
Mexico  and temporarily shut-in production in lower-48 onshore
production fields resulting from severe weather. EIA expects
production will recover from February levels but begin modest
month-to-month declines that could continue through the year
because of reductions in the number of active natural gas
drilling rigs. The number of rigs drilling for natural gas, as
reported by Baker Hughes Inc., has fallen from 973 in April 2010
to 882 as of April 29, 2011. More rigs are being directed toward
oil instead of gas, largely because of the large price disparity
between the two fuels on an energy-equivalent basis. (On this
basis, crude oil is generating close to three times as much
revenue per dekatherm of energy than natural gas.)  Annual average Henry Hub spot prices are also expected to
decline slightly in 2011, falling $0.15 per MMBtu to an average
of $4.24 per MMBtu in 2011. Total natural gas consumption will
remain flat from 2010 to 2011, according to the EIA forecast.
Reported residential and commercial consumption levels are
expected to decline by 0.7 percent and 1.6 percent, respectively,
primarily because of changes to EIA?? methodology for collecting
and reporting natural gas consumption data (see Changes in
Natural Gas Monthly Consumption Data Collection and the Short-
Term Energy Outlook
 http://www.eia.gov/emeu/steo/pub/special/pdf/2010_sp_04.pdf ).
Industrial consumption rises from 18.1 Bcf per day in 2010 to
18.4 Bcf per day in 2011, as the natural gas-weighted industrial
production index increases during the year.  Natural Gas Transportation Update  Southern Natural Gas Company (SONAT) and Tennessee Gas Pipeline
Company (TGP) this week advised shippers of possible service
disruptions due to the flooding of the  Mississippi River . SONAT
said it was monitoring flood levels and their potential impacts
on several receipt and delivery meters, as well as compressor
stations located within the  Army Corps  of Engineers forecasted
flood zones. SONAT specifically pointed out that flooding could
impact operations facilities and points on the North Main System
in west central  Mississippi  as well as in  Louisiana  upstream of
White Castle Compressor Station. Southern expected to shut in
Thursday the Crosstex receipt point near Onward, Mississippi.
TGP simply informed shippers that it is monitoring the
forecasted flood levels and land areas where such flooding would
have implications to its facilities. Depending on changes in the
forecasted flood levels and the need for the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers to take additional actions, such as operating the
Morganza Floodway, certain facilities could be required to be
evacuated, shut in, or isolated, according to the pipeline
company.  Texas Eastern Transmission Corporation (TETCO) on Wednesday
informed shippers that further maintenance and inspections will
be required at its compressor station in Lambertville,
Pennsylvania. TETCO stated that firm transportation will be
restricted from May 20 through 22, with deliveries downstream of
Lambertville limited to 250 million cubic feet (MMcf) per day.
The specified meters have averaged flows of approximately 650
MMcf per day over the last week, according to BENTEK Energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  