-- 
U.S. Stocks Decline Amid Cisco’s Forecast as Commodities Sink

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-05-12T15:32:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/u-s-stock-index-futures-drop-as-commodities-slide-cisco-lowers-forecasts.html
U.S. stocks fell, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower for a second straight day, as
commodities declined after  China  curbed bank lending and  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO) ’s profit forecast missed analysts’ estimates.  ConocoPhillips and  Monsanto Co. (MON)  retreated at least 1.6
percent as China lifted banks’ reserve requirements for the
fifth time this year, raising concern about slower demand for
commodities. Cisco, the world’s largest maker of networking
gear, slumped 5.2 percent after citing price pressures and
saying it will cut low-margin businesses.  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  declined 3.4 percent after Rochdale Securities LLC cut its
recommendation for the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets.  The S&P 500 dropped 0.1 percent to 1,340.69 at 11:31 a.m.
in New York. The benchmark gauge for American equities yesterday
had its biggest decline since March as commodities tumbled amid
a stronger  U.S. dollar . The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slumped
27.17 points, or 0.2 percent, to 12,602.86 today. Stockss pared
losses as commodities trimmed their declines.  “There’s skittishness out there,” said Tommy Huie, who
oversees about $33 billion as president and chief investment
officer of M&I Investment Management in  Milwaukee . “The recent
move in commodities and Cisco’s revenue outlook demonstrate
uncertainties in terms of the recovery going forward. Hopefully,
the decline will build the foundation for further gains down the
road. That requires a little bit more patience.”  Commodity Producers Slump  The S&P 500 fell 1.6 percent this month through yesterday,
as gauges of energy and raw-materials producers slumped at least
4.3 percent. Industries less-tied to economic growth, including
utility, health-care, consumer staples and telephone companies,
outperformed the benchmark. The  S&P 500  was still up 6.7 percent
this year through yesterday amid government stimulus measures
and higher-than-estimated corporate profits.  Global stocks fell after China raised reserve ratios for
its largest lenders by 0.5 percentage point to a record 21
percent. The central bank moved after reports yesterday showed
inflation and lending exceeded economists’ estimates in April,
with consumer prices rising more than 5 percent for a second
month. Premier  Wen Jiabao  aims to tame inflation that is
spreading beyond food to other goods, while sustaining growth as
the economy shows signs of cooling.  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said the U.S. economic recovery is nearing a point where
the central bank should begin pulling back record stimulus.  ‘Not-too-Distant’  “If the economy continues to make progress, then monetary
policy will need to exit from its extraordinary accommodation in
the not-too-distant future,” Plosser said today in remarks
prepared for a speech in Aventura,  Florida . “While my
expectation is that oil-price increases will level off and that
the currently elevated inflation measures will reverse, the
risks to the inflation outlook are tilted to the upside,”
requiring that the Fed have a plan for tightening, he said.  Wholesale costs rose more than forecast in April, led by
food and fuel, Labor Department figures showed. Commerce
Department data showed that retail sales gained 0.5 percent in
April, the smallest increase since July. Sales excluding
automobiles and gasoline rose 0.2 percent, less than half the
median economist projection. First-time jobless claims decreased
44,000 to 434,000, Labor Department figures showed, topping the
median economists forecast of 430,000.  Six-Week Low  Consumer confidence  fell to a six-week low as the costliest
gasoline in almost three years worsened Americans’ perceptions
of their finances. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped
to minus 46.9 in the period to May 8, the worst reading since
March, from the prior week’s minus 46.2. Across regions,
sentiment suffered the most in the West, where fuel prices
exceed the national average.  Shares of energy producers slumped as oil declined in New
York after the  International Energy Agency  trimmed its 2011
global demand forecast for the first time as this year’s price
rally began to weigh on consumption.  ConocoPhillips (COP) , the third-largest U.S. oil company, dropped
2.1 percent to $71.02. Raw-material producers also declined.
Monsanto, the world’s largest seed company, retreated 1.6
percent to $63.67.  Cisco Systems  tumbled 5.2 percent to $16.86. The company,
which has lost about $50 billion in market value in the last
year, is revamping management and scaling back some businesses
after losing share to rivals such as Hewlett-Packard Co. Chief
Executive Officer  John Chambers  said he’ll eliminate jobs while
girding for weakness and lower public-sector spending this
quarter. He ditched a longstanding prediction for annual sales
growth of 12 percent to 17 percent.  Setting the Bar  “I don’t think anyone’s expecting them to set the bar
high,” Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne, Agee and Leach Inc., said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television. He has a “buy”
rating on the shares.  Financial shares had the biggest decline in the S&P 500
within 10 industries, falling 1.1 percent as a group.  Goldman Sachs slumped 3.4 percent to $142.88.  Richard Bove ,
analyst at Rochdale Securities, cut his recommendation for the
stock to “sell” from “neutral,” citing pressure on the
 Justice Department  to file a criminal lawsuit against the firm
after a Rolling Stone Magazine article that the analyst called
an “all-out attack.”   Global investors have tempered their optimism about the
U.S. and world economies and plan to put more of their money in
cash and less in commodities over the next six months, a
Bloomberg survey found.  Almost one in three of those questioned say they will hold
more cash, while 30 percent intend to reduce investments in
commodities, according to a quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll of
1,263 investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg
subscribers. Both results were the highest since the survey
began asking the question last June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  