-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending May 10 (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-05-12T12:28:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-may-10-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  South Atlantic Seaboard and Eastern  Gulf Coast  States: Many
locations from central  South Carolina  northward through south-
central Virginia recorded 0.5 to 2.0 inches of rain last week,
as did parts of west-central and southeast  Florida . This
precipitation was of some limited benefit, and resulted in no
improvement in Drought Monitor classifications.  Through the remainder of the region from Virginia southward
through Florida and southwestward through  Mississippi , only
light precipitation was observed, if any. As a result, the
Drought Monitor classifications deteriorated, particularly along
and near the Gulf Coast, where surface moisture declined
markedly. Exteme drought (D3) was introduced in part of
southeastern Georgia, and extended slightly southward along the
southeastern coast of Florida. Severe drought was expanded to
include southeastern  Alabama , the western  Florida panhandle ,
most of the southern half of  Georgia , and coastal east-central
Florida. In addition, abnormally dry conditions expanded
northwestward in northeast Georgia and western South Carolina.
For the last 3 months, rainfall was 8 to locally more than 12
inches below normal across southern sections of Mississippi and
Alabama, and through the western Florida panhandle.  Lower Mississippi Valley: Although little or no precipitation
fell across this region, a review of current and forthcoming
conditions led to drastic improvements in parts of Louisiana.
Rainfall has been markedly below normal throughout the southern
half of the state on time scales ranging from 3 to 12 months or
more; however, any effects from these deficits are quickly
fading along the Mississippi and Atchafalaya Rivers as well as
the wetlands that cover much of the southeastern parts of the
state, where major to historic flooding is anticipated in some
areas. Water levels were rising as of this writing in a large
swath covering areas from the Atchafalaya River Basin eastward
through areas immediately adjacent to the  Mississippi River , and
major to historic floodwaters will encroach on these areas
through the next 7 days or more. Also, increasing water levels
through most of southeastern  Louisiana  to the west and south of
Lake Pontchartrain have relieved or soon will relieve any
drought effects that had been felt there.  Meanwhile, a sharp gradient exists between these areas of
flooding or wetland and lands that are typically dry to the west,
north, and east. From these parts of Louisiana through most of
the rest of the state, drought remains a serious issue, and
conditions persisted or worsened last week. D1 to D4 conditions
prevailed, with the most serious drought covering west-central
Louisiana, where large moisture shortfalls date back well over a
year. Generally 10 to 15 inches of rain fell during the last six
months, which was 12 to locally 20 inches below normal. The D4
area expanded slightly eastward last week, and D3 conditions
pushed into southwestern Louisiana; otherwise, drought severity
was essentially unchanged.  Central and Southern Plains: Only a few isolated sites in this
region recorded any measurable rainfall last week as drought
intensified in many areas. Some improvement was introduced in
northeastern  Texas  and immediately adjacent sections of  Oklahoma 
and Louisiana based on a re-assessment of the effects of the
prior week’s rainfall. Throughout the rest of the region, large
areas of drought intensification were introduced as a result of
another dry week. D1 to D2 conditions expanded northward and
eastward in  Kansas , but conditions were much worse farther south,
where D4 conditions dramatically expanded across southwestern
Oklahoma, large parts of Texas, and southeastern  New Mexico .
Precipitation over the last 90 days was 8 to 12 inches below
normal throughout southeastern and east-central Texas, and in
parts of southeastern New Mexico, no measurable precipitation
has been recorded for the last 3 to (in a few isolated spots) 6
months.  The drought has brought a variety of serious impacts to much of
the region. Water supplies are declining, and in a few areas
water restrictions have been imposed, across the southwestern
half of Texas and southeastern Oklahoma. Fire danger has been
extremely high for repeated and extended periods in areas from
south-central New Mexico and the Big Bend of Texas northeastward,
occasionally reaching as far as southwestern Kansas, adjacent
 Colorado , and the western Oklahoma Panhandle. So far this year,
wildfires have consumed more than 2 million acres in Texas alone.  In addition, agriculture has been seriously affected. In Texas,
76 percent of the winter wheat crop was in poor or very poor
condition in Texas, according to the National Agricultural
Statistics Service, as was 50 percent of the crop in Colorado
and 41 percent in Kansas. Pastures and rangelands have also
experienced serious impacts because of the drought. About 79
percent of such areas were in poor or very poor condition across
New Mexico, as were 77 percent in Texas, 49 percent in Oklahoma,
and 48 percent in Colorado.  The Southwest: Precipitation was negligible to non-existent last
week in southwestern Colorado, most of  Arizona , and western New
Mexico last week; however, normal amounts are quite low this
time of year, so the D0 to D3 areas remained unchanged.  Hawaii ,  Alaska , and  Puerto Rico : Several inches of precipitation
fell on the Alaskan panhandle last week, with more modest totals,
generally less than an inch, reported in the remainder of the
abnormally dry region. D0 conditions remained unchanged from
last week.  Heavy precipitation, exceeding 5 inches in a few spots, fell on
portions of the Big Island last week. This precipitation,
considered in conjunction with the substantial rainfall observed
in many areas during prior weeks, led to a reduction in extent
and severity of the D0 to D3 conditions that had enveloped
central and western sections of the island. D3 conditions were
eliminated in the northern reaches, and significant reductions
in the coverage of D0 to D2 conditions occurred in northern and
eastern parts of the dry regions. The only exception was in the
northeastern parts of the island, where slowly increasing
moisture shortfalls led to the development of abnormally dry
conditions.  Farther northwest through the islands in the central part of the
state, only light precipitation was observed, and areas of
dryness and drought remained unchanged.  Looking Ahead: During May 12 - 16, 2011, moderate to locally
heavy rains will fall on some currently-dry parts of the country.
The heaviest amounts, 1 to 2 inches, are forecast for central
and northeastern Colorado and much of  Nebraska . In addition,
beneficial rains of 0.5 to 1.5 inches are expected away from the
coast in eastern Texas and across northern and western Louisiana.
Generally 0.5 to 1.0 inches are anticipated in the dry areas
along the Atlantic Seaboard, though less is expected in most of
Florida. Other areas shouldn’t expect much in the way of relief.
Less than 0.5 inch is expected along the Gulf Coast, and at most
one-quarter of an inch is forecast from roughly the western
halves of Kansas, Oklahoma, and Texas westward through New
Mexico and Arizona.  The outlook for May 17 - 21, 2011 brings enhanced chances for
above-normal precipitation the dry areas in the Carolinas and
 Virginia , across southern Florida, and in the Great Plains from
central Texas northward through eastern Colorado and Nebraska.
In contrast, the odds favor below-median precipitation along the
central Gulf Coast, and from the southwestern and western tiers
of Texas westward through most of New Mexico. In addition, the
entire state of Alaska has enhanced chances for sub-median
precipitation. In other currently-dry sections of the country,
neither abnormally wet nor abnormally dry conditions are favored,
and essentially no forecast is made for these areas.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  