-- 
Huaneng Renewables Said to Revive $1 Billion Hong Kong Initial Share Sale

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-12T09:01:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/huaneng-renewables-said-to-revive-1-billion-hong-kong-initial-share-sale.html
Huaneng Renewables Corp., the wind-
power unit of  China ’s biggest electricity producer, plans to
revive a Hong Kong initial share sale after cutting the size of
the offering by about 20 percent to $1 billion, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The unit of China Huaneng Group Corp. aims to start trading
in early June, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the information is private. Huaneng Renewables scrapped
its earlier plan because of unexpected and excessive market
volatility, the company said on Dec. 13.  The 7.8 percent drop in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  since
its 2010 peak in November has delayed initial share sales of
companies including  Australia ’s Resourcehouse Ltd. and China’s
Hilong Holding Ltd. Huaneng Renewables, seeking funds to expand
capacity and meet rising Chinese demand for clean energy, had
previously sought to raise as much as $1.3 billion.  “The group is attractive as there’s all the upside of
energy consumption and power consumption growth in China over
the next few years,”  Michael Parker , a senior research analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said by phone from Hong Kong.
“Renewable companies are facing decreasing wind-turbine prices,
which will continue to fall and improve the economics of new
wind farms in China.”  Turbine prices dropped about 5 percent in the first quarter
from the previous three months to an average of 3,797 yuan ($584)
per kilowatt, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  The government wants at least 15 percent of the country’s
energy to come from renewable sources, including wind, by 2020.
China increased its wind-power capacity in 2010 by 67 percent to
42.5 gigawatts, data from Bloomberg New Energy Finance show.  Datang Renewable  Morgan Stanley, China International Capital Corp. and
Macquarie Group Ltd. are managing the Huaneng Renewables sale,
the two people said. Hu Xiaoyu, a director at China Huaneng
Group’s news office in Beijing, didn’t return three telephone
calls seeking comment.  China Datang Corp. Renewable Power Co., the wind unit of
the nation’s second-largest power producer, raised HK$5 billion
($643 million) in a  Hong Kong  initial public offering in
December. The shares have since gained 4.6 percent. The stock
closed at HK$2.29 today.  The  Hang Seng  completed its longest stretch of losses
since April 2003 in the eight days to May 6 as economic reports
in the U.S. and falling commodity prices damped investor
confidence in the global recovery. The index fell 0.9 percent
today to its lowest close since March 29.  Hong Kong IPOs  Hong Kong IPOs have raised $5.1 billion so far this year,
down from $5.4 billion a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The number of initial share sales rose to
20 this year from 18 in the year-earlier period, the data show.  Samsonite LLC, the U.S. luggage maker backed by London-
based CVC Capital Partners Ltd., plans to start trading in the
city in mid-June after a $1 billion IPO, two people with
knowledge of the matter said. The 101-year-old company is
scheduled to attend a hearing today at the Hong Kong stock
exchange to present its share-sale plan, the people said.  Beijing Jingneng Clean Energy Co., an operator of gas-fired
 power plants  in China’s capital, is seeking as much as $700
million in a Hong Kong IPO, two people with knowledge of the
matter said. The unit of state-owned Beijing Energy Investment
Holding Co. aims to start trading in June, the people said.  --Fox Hu and  Wang Ying . Editors: Ryan Woo, Mohammed Hadi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 