-- 
Uganda’s Museveni Inaugurated for Fourth Term as President Amid Protests

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-05-12T14:54:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/uganda-s-museveni-inaugurated-for-fourth-term-as-president-amid-protests.html
Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni was
sworn in for a fourth term, pledging to defeat “disruptive
schemes” as police sprayed teargas to disperse hundreds of
supporters of the main opposition leader, Kizza Besigye.  The crowd had gathered on the road from the airport after
Besigye landed on a flight from  Kenya ’s capital, Nairobi, where
he was treatment for injuries he suffered during his arrest in
 Uganda  on April 28.  “We won an overwhelming victory in all the regions of
Uganda” in elections on Feb. 18, Museveni said at a ceremony in
the capital, Kampala, today. “I would, therefore, call upon
those who have been pushing sectarian ideas and pushing
opportunism to join the national consensus instead of being
desperate and embarking on disruptive schemes.”  The Ugandan leader won with 68.38 percent of the vote,
extending his term to 30 years, while Besigye, head of the Forum
Democratic Change, garnered 26 percent. Four opposition parties
claimed the vote was rigged and rejected the outcome, calling
for a fresh election.  Besigye has been repeatedly arrested as he led protests
against surging prices for food and gasoline. Inflation
accelerated to 14.1 percent in April from 11.1 percent in March,
as food costs jumped 31 percent, the Uganda Bureau of Statistics
said on April 29.  Long Serving  Kenya Airways Ltd. (KNAL)  said yesterday that Besigye was denied
entry to a flight to Uganda after the company learned it wasn’t
allowed to land at the main Entebbe airport with him on board.
It issued Besigye and his wife new tickets later in the day.  Ugandan police fired teargas to clear demonstrators who had
blocked the road to the airport and stoned police today, Judith
Nabakooba, a spokesman for the force, said in a phone interview.  Museveni’s inauguration was attended by nine African
leaders including  Robert Mugabe  of Zimbabwe,  Meles Zenawi  from
Ethiopia and Nigeria’s Goodluck Jonathan.  Museveni ranks as one of Africa’s longest-serving leaders
along with Muammar al-Qaddafi of  Libya , Mugabe and until
February,  Hosni Mubarak  of Egypt. Uganda is Africa’s second-
biggest coffee grower after Ethiopia, and the continent’s
leading producer of the robusta variety of the bean.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 