-- 
TUI Operating Loss Widens on North Africa Travel Disruption

-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 
2011-05-12T11:48:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/tui-posts-second-quarter-net-loss-of-144-million-euros.html
TUI AG (TUI1) , the German tour operator
that’s trying to sell its stake in the Hapag-Lloyd shipping
company, reported a wider second-quarter operating loss as
political unrest in northern Africa burdened the outcome.  The so-called adjusted loss before interest, taxes and
amortization widened to 256 million euros ($363 million) in the
three months through March from 240 million euros a year
earlier, Hanover-based TUI said today in a statement. Sales rose
6.8 percent to 3.08 billion euros.  The cost of canceled trips to Egypt and  Tunisia , and of
repatriating customers, as political uprisings toppled those
countries’ governments, reduced TUI’s earnings by 38 million
euros, the company said. Results were also affected by the
Easter travel season taking place later this year than in 2010.  “The reported figures from the tourism operations aren’t
great,” said Sebastian Hein, an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe in
Dusseldorf. “The riots in north  Africa  had a strong impact.”  TUI began receiving subsidies from the Egyptian government
in the quarter as seat occupancy on its aircraft to holiday
destinations in the country declined, Chief Financial Officer
Horst Baier said on call with analysts today.  One-Time Gain  The second-quarter net loss narrowed to 144 million euros
from 178 million euros a year earlier, TUI said. The figure
included a one-time gain related to lower costs for pension
plans at the company’s  TUI Travel Plc (TT/)  unit. The positive effect
was worth about 83 million euros, Baier said the call.  The net loss was less than the 171.4 million-euro average
estimate of five analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  The tourism division, which includes a controlling stake in
British tour operator TUI Travel as well as some holiday resorts
and cruise ships, reported an operating loss, including the one-
time gain, of 193 million euros, narrowing from 274 million
euros. European tourism companies typically make all their
profit in the summer season.  TUI has said it will focus on tourism after disposing of
its stake in Hapag-Lloyd,  Germany ’s biggest container line.  Increased freight rates led to a higher operating profit at
Hapag-Lloyd. TUI, which owns 49.8 percent of the container line,
said Hapag’s profit contribution rose 93 percent to almost 26
million euros. TUI is selling an 11.33 percent stake in Hapag-
Lloyd to majority owner Albert Ballin GmbH, and it outlined a
“dual-track” strategy in April of a possible IPO for the
remainder or a sale to a buyer.  Hapag-Lloyd  Hapag-Lloyd’s quarterly net loss was 22.1 million euros,
the company said in a separate e-mailed statement today, without
providing the year-earlier figure. Earnings before interest and
tax fell to 12.3 million euros from 18.4 million euros.  “The rise in the oil price, the weak  U.S. dollar  and
growing competition are making business more difficult,”
Michael Behrendt, chairman of the executive board of Hapag, said
in the statement. The shipping company aims to balance higher
costs with rate increases, he said.  TUI reiterated today that it will be profitable at the net-
income level this year and will report higher adjusted earnings
before interest, taxes and amortization.  TUI shares fell 4 cents, or 0.5 percent, to 8.16 euros at
1:20 p.m. local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  