-- 
Hungary GDP Growth May Have Quickened to 4-Year High on Exports

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-05-12T14:37:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/hungary-gdp-growth-may-have-quickened-to-4-year-high-on-exports.html
Hungary ’s economic growth may have
accelerated to a four-year high in the first quarter as rising
exports fuel the country’s recovery from its worst recession in
18 years.  Gross domestic product expanded 2.4 percent in the quarter,
according to the median estimate of 10 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. That would be the fastest pace since the same period of
2007. The statistics office will publish a preliminary growth
estimate at 9 a.m. tomorrow in Budapest.  Hungary is looking to the euro region, which buys 60
percent of products made or assembled in the country, including
Audi AG cars and Nokia Oyj mobile phones, to power its
resurgence after the global financial crisis. The country posted
a record  trade surplus  in March.  The trade surplus “heralds relatively strong GDP growth
that could reach almost 3 percent in 2011,”  Piotr Kalisz  and
Cezary Chrapek, Warsaw-based economists at Citigroup Inc., said
May 10 in an e-mail. “Hungary continues to benefit from the
impressive performance of the German economy.”  The government introduced a flat 16 percent personal income
tax this year, cutting taxes for those earning more than the
average salary, and reduced the corporate  tax rate  to 10 percent
for small and medium-size companies to spur growth.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  plans to boost economic growth
to 3.2 percent this year and as much as 5.2 percent by 2014. GDP
expanded 1.2 percent in 2010 after five consecutive quarters of
contraction that started in 2008. Achieving Orban’s goals may
help Hungary in its bid to reduce the debt level, the highest
among the eastern members of the European Union.  IMF Estimate  The  International Monetary Fund  estimates Hungary’s economy
will grow 2.8 percent this year and next, according to a
regional economic outlook released yesterday.  It will be “very difficult” for Hungary to achieve its
growth targets because of its shrinking population and the
second-lowest employment rate in the EU, according to  Anthony Thomas , a risk analyst at Moody’s Investors Service.  “If you look at the labor market, it’s a shrinking
population, the participation rate is low, so in terms of
generating strong growth it’s just very difficult to see where
that’s going to come from,” Thomas said May 4 in Prague.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  