-- 
Hungary May Use Tax Break for Banks to Boost Loans, Help Debtors

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-05-12T11:24:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/hungary-may-use-tax-break-for-banks-to-boost-loans-help-debtors.html
Hungary , which last year imposed a
special tax on banks to plug budget holes, may give a tax
discount to lenders to spur lending and protect mortgage
holders, a study posted on the Economy Ministry  website  shows.  The government, which banned evictions until July 1, may
also offer subsidized housing loans to help the  construction
industry , according to the ministry’s  strategic working paper ,
published yesterday. A group consisting of government, bank and
construction industry representatives wrote the proposals.  The government wants to protect foreign-currency borrowers
who are unable to make payments while encouraging lending to
support the recovery from the country’s worst recession in 18
years. Hungary, facing the risk of its credit rating being cut
to junk, is also seeking to avoid added budget spending.  "The prerequisite of a functioning housing-creation plan is
the restart of commercial bank lending," the document said. "To
do this, the problem of borrowers in arrears must be dealt
with."  Apart from OTP Bank Nyrt., the country’s largest lender,
Hungary’s financial industry is dominated by foreign-owned banks
including the units of  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ,  Bayerische Landesbank ,
 Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI)  and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   Non-performing loans may rise to as high as 15 percent of
all portfolios this year, the central bank said on April 20.  The report includes a proposal is to fix the Swiss franc’s
exchange rate on household mortgages denominated in the currency
at 190 forint per franc for three years. Additional costs
resulting from the forint’s weakness would have to be paid over
the maturity of the original loan.  Tax Deduction  Another proposal is for lenders to voluntarily provide an
exchange-rate ceiling on household mortgage loans in exchange
for the ability to deduct "in part or in whole" the additional
cost from the bank tax.  Hungary imposed a 120 billion-forint ($635 million) levy on
banks last year, based on their net assets. The levy is
effective until at least the end of next year.  A third proposal is to set up a National Asset Manager to
pool real estate of borrowers who can’t make their payments
because of reasons "outside of their control." Banks would be
able to transfer the loans and the collateral to the asset
manager in exchange for "long-maturity special"  government
bonds . Owners would rent their property from the asset manager,
which would have rights to repurchase it.  In a different plan, banks would be able to deduct housing
loans from the special tax, while the government would subsidize
new mortgages. The support would be for a fixed amount of forint
loans for five years, linked to a benchmark rate for subsidies
used by the  Debt Management Agency .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  