-- 
Warner Music, Sony Reach $105 Million Deal With Lime Wire

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-05-13T14:00:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/music-labels-warner-music-sony-settle-lawsuit-against-lime-wire-gorton.html
Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG)  and  Sony
Corp. (6758) , along with other owners of music labels, agreed during a
trial to settle their copyright lawsuit against Lime Wire LLC
and its founder,  Mark Gorton , for $105 million.  “The case has just settled,” U.S. District Judge  Kimba Wood  told jurors yesterday. The suit was filed in 2006.  Lawyers for both sides met throughout the day at the
 Manhattan  courthouse to forge the agreement. The defendants will
pay a total of $105 million, according to statements from the
 Recording Industry Association of America  and Willkie Farr &
Gallagher LLP, the law firm representing Gorton and Lime Wire.  During the trial, the music-label owners, which also
included  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music Group  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s
EMI Group, sought more than $1 billion. The labels claimed Lime
Wire and Gorton induced the infringement of copyrights on
thousands of songs through peer-to-peer file-sharing software on
the Internet. Wood ordered Lime Wire to shut down its music
service last year. A jury was determining damages in the case.  Glenn Pomerantz, a lawyer for the music companies, told the
jury of eight women and one man in opening statements on May 3
that the record industry’s revenue fell 52 percent from 2000,
the year Lime Wire was founded, to 2010.  “We are pleased to have reached a large monetary
settlement,” the recording association said in its statement.
“Designing and operating services to profit from the theft of
the world’s greatest music comes with a stiff price.”  Revenue Decline  Gorton’s lawyers were trying to convince the jury that
other factors were responsible for the decline in industry
revenue besides peer-to-peer, or P2P, file-sharing.  Joseph Baio, a lawyer representing  Lime Wire  and Gorton,
said in his opening statement to the jury that these factors
included the counterfeiting and copying of CDs, the economic
recession, bankruptcies of music wholesalers and retailers, the
maturation of the CD market, competition from other forms of
entertainment and the industry’s own inability to exploit the
new technologies.  The record labels  sought statutory damages under federal
copyright law for 9,561 recordings released since 1972,
according to court papers. Maximum statutory damages of $150,000
for each recording would have resulted in a $1.4 billion award.
Other damages on pre-1972 recordings were also being sought, the
companies said in court filings.  Baio said Gorton made only about $6 million from the songs
the  record companies  had listed as being infringed. Lime Wire,
which provided free software for file sharing, made money by
selling a faster, premium version of the program.  Transfers Challenged  The music companies also accused Gorton of making a
fraudulent transfer of assets into family limited partnerships
to shield the funds from liability. Pomerantz told jurors that
Gorton transferred the money three days after the U.S. Supreme
Court ruled in 2005 that Grokster, another music-sharing
program, could be held liable for infringement.  Before the settlement was announced yesterday, Gorton was
scheduled to take the witness stand a second time. The labels’
lawyers planned to question him about the alleged hiding of his
assets.  Gorton, 44, declined to comment about the settlement.
Besides founding Lime Wire, he operates a New York-based hedge
fund, Tower Research Capital LLC.  Estate Planning  Gorton’s lawyers said that his transfer of assets was part
of estate planning and that the closing date was set before the
high court’s decision.  Besides the assets in the family partnerships, Gorton has
$100 million in Individual Retirement Accounts, Pomerantz told
the jurors.  The last witness to testify was  Warner Music  Chief
Executive Officer Edgar Bronfman. He told the jury he had hoped
the peer-to-peer services would shut down voluntarily after the
Grokster ruling.  “When Lime Wire kept operating it frustrated me greatly,”
Bronfman said in court. “It was devastating, frankly.”  Bronfman, 54, testified that the drop in revenue caused by
peer-to-peer music sharing services such as Lime Wire forced New
York-based Warner Music to fire employees and release fewer
recordings.  Warner Music on May 6 said it agreed to sell itself to
former director Len Blavatnik’s Access Industries Holdings LLC
for about $1.3 billion in cash, or $8.25 a share, plus the
assumption of about $2 billion in debt.  “You’re making a boatload of money,” Baio said to
Bronfman in his cross-examination on May 11.  Warner Music was sued yesterday by a shareholder claiming
the acquisition by Access undervalues the company. Warner Music
directors abandoned their duty to shareholders when they agreed
to a deal that benefits Access to the “detriment” of minority
investors, Barbara A. Varipapa said in a complaint filed in
Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  Warner Music was unchanged at $8.19 at 9:57 a.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares had risen 45
percent this year before today.  The case is Arista Records LLC v.  Lime Wire LLC , 06-05936,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  