-- 
Luxury-Home Rents in London Outstrip Prices as Vacancies Shrink

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-05-12T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/luxury-home-rents-in-london-climb-to-a-record-amid-shrinking-vacancies.html
Luxury-home rents in central London
rose twice as fast as purchase prices last month as a decline in
the number of available properties fueled competition,  Knight
Frank  LLP said.  The cost of leasing a house or apartment in the city’s most
expensive neighborhoods climbed 16.3 percent from a year
earlier, while sales prices rose 8.3 percent, the property
broker said in separate reports today. This year, rents may
increase by 5 percent to 10 percent, Knight Frank said.  The number of homes available to rent has shrunk by about
18 percent in the 12 months to April compared with the previous
year, the company estimates, giving landlords more leverage over
tenants. At the same time, the U.K. capital’s improved job
market has added to demand for rental properties.  “We can be much tougher with tenants now because we know
we can get a higher rent,” said Naomi Heaton, chief executive
officer of  London  Central Property Ltd. Her company buys and
manages 350 properties for investors in the boroughs of
 Kensington & Chelsea  and Westminster valued at about 500 million
pounds ($815 million).  LCP took about three weeks to find someone to lease a one-
bedroom in the Knightsbridge district when it became vacant in
February. The company used the opportunity to raise the rent by
18 percent, Heaton said.  Stucco-Fronted Home  The new tenant, an insurance brokerage she didn’t identify,
agreed to pay 550 pounds ($897) a week for the stucco-fronted
home on Ovington Square that will house one of its employees.  The average cost of renting a one-bedroom apartment owned
by LCP’s customers or funds ranges from 450 pounds to 650 pounds
a week, Heaton said. A two-bedroom property costs 650 pounds to
900 pounds.  “There’s a cut-off in interest for one- and two-bedroom
properties costing more than 1,000 pounds a week,” she said.  Families tend to move to southwest London suburbs like
Putney, Wandsworth and Clapham, which have a larger proportion
of houses and good schools, she said.  Prime rents gained 0.4 percent in April from the previous
month, bringing the increase since the market’s last low-point
in June 2009 to 25 percent, Knight Frank said.  ‘Not Enough Supply’  “There simply aren’t enough new units coming out of the
ground to have anything other than a local impact in terms of
depressing rental values,” said  Liam Bailey , the firm’s head of
residential research.  Prices have risen on an annual basis every month since
November 2009, bringing the average value to 3.65 million
pounds. Since February, they’ve gained less than 10 percent,
compared with advances of as much as 21 percent last year.  A decline in the number of luxury homes for sale caused
property transactions to fall by a third in the last 12 months
compared with 2007, Knight Frank said.  “Limited stock means there are a large number of
prospective buyers who are still locked out of owner-occupation
and renting is their only alternative,” Bailey said.  April’s rental increase lifted the gross income from a
prime residential property in central London to 3.8 percent of
the purchase price from 3.3 percent in June 2010, the broker
estimates.  Maximum Return  Most properties probably won’t generate a gross annual
rental return of more than 3.8 percent, said Tim Hyatt, the head
of residential leasing.  Investors buy prime London rental homes chiefly for the
anticipated appreciation in property values, Heaton said.  The Ovington Square property her company acquired and
manages for an investor was valued by an appraiser at 625,000
pounds in March, or 26 percent more than it cost to buy in
October 2007, she said. The gains don’t include refurbishment
costs.  Knight Frank compiles its luxury-homes indexes from
estimated values for rents and prices of properties in the
Mayfair, St. John’s Wood, Regent’s Park, Kensington,  Notting
Hill , Chelsea, Knightsbridge, Belgravia and South Bank
neighborhoods of London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 