-- 
Vallourec Profit Rises 35%; Sees Gains During Second Quarter

-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 
2011-05-12T16:22:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/vallourec-first-quarter-net-rises-to-82-million-euros.html
Vallourec SA (VK) , a French producer of
steel pipes for the oil and gas industry, reported profit surged
35 percent in the first three months of the year on increased
sales, while forecasting higher earnings in the second quarter.  Net income rose to 81.9 million euros ($116 million) from
60.8 million euros a year earlier, Vallourec said in a statement
today. The result trailed the 85.7 million-euro average estimate
of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales grew 31 percent
to 1.15 billion euros.  “Our factories will be running full steam” for the rest
of the year, Chief Financial Officer Olivier Mallet told a
conference call. “We are very confident for our future because
the trend for demand from the energy sector is good.”  Higher volumes and prices are a relief for producers, who
have struggled to pass on surging costs for raw materials such
as  iron ore  and coking coal. ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest
steelmaker, yesterday posted profit that beat estimates as
rising demand and prices countered increased commodity costs.  “The current market trends are positive,” said Vallourec,
which is based in  Boulogne Billancourt ,  France . “The positive
activity trends are expected to continue throughout the year.
Price increases are being implemented in most markets and are
expected to progressively offset higher raw material costs.”  Vallourec said its margin on earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization in the first half of 2011 will be
“slightly below” the previous six months even as revenue and
margins gain in the second quarter. Sales and Ebitda will
“progress” in the second half of this year, it added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in  London  at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  