-- 
Vietnam Detains Protesters Following Ethnic Hmong Border Unrest

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-12T10:24:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/vietnam-detains-protesters-following-ethnic-hmong-border-unrest.html
Vietnamese authorities have detained
an unspecified number of people following protests by ethnic
Hmong people in a remote mountainous area near the Lao border, a
 Vietnam   Ministry of Foreign Affairs  spokeswoman said.  “A number of over-reactive individuals have been detained
for investigation and will be dealt with in accordance with the
law,” Nguyen Phuong Nga told reporters at a regular briefing in
Hanoi today. She said she could not provide an exact number of
those held.  Vietnamese soldiers clashed with demonstrators from the
Hmong minority in Dien Bien province in the country’s
northwestern region after a protest by thousands calling for
greater autonomy and religious freedom,  Agence France-Presse 
reported May 5, citing an unidentified person in the military.  The Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  said May 5 that a “large
gathering” of Hmong people took place in Muong Nhe in the
province after a rumor that a “supernatural force” would lead
them to a “promised land.”  “Extremist Hmong individuals deceived, wooed, incited and
even forced ethnic minorities from other localities to gather in
Muong Nhe to advocate what they called the establishment of the
Hmong kingdom, which caused public disorder and insecurity,”
Nha said today.  The public order and security situation in Muong Nhe had
been restored, she said, and people had voluntarily returned to
their homes. There has been much exaggeration about the
situation and the truth has been “distorted,” she added.  The  U.S. Embassy in Vietnam  had inquired with relevant
Vietnamese government officials about reports of violence in
Dien Bien province, an embassy spokesman said May 6.  --Nick Heath. Editors: Ben Richardson,  Mark Williams   To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bloomberg News at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  