-- 
Visteon Says Director Redmond Resigning Over Board Tactics

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-05-12T15:15:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/visteon-says-director-redmond-resigning-over-board-tactics-1-.html
Visteon Corp., the auto supplier that
exited bankruptcy in October, said William Redmond Jr. will
resign from the board because he disagreed with the company’s
handling of nominations for new directors.  The resignation is effective May 20, according to a
regulatory filing today. Visteon said yesterday that it would
appoint two new directors by Aug. 1 from recommendations made by
shareholder Alden Global Distressed Opportunities Master Fund
LP. One of the new members will replace Redmond,  Van Buren
Township , Michigan-based Visteon said in the statement.  Visteon planned to retain legal counsel and public-
relations firms to “gird for a proxy fight” if Alden denied a
proposal to hold off on adding the two new directors in
September, after its annual meeting, Redmond said in a May 8
letter to the board that was included in today’s filing. With
the announcement of the August appointments, Alden agreed to a
“standstill” period.  “There are no winners in this ‘fight,’ with the biggest
loser being our collective  shareholder value , given the
distraction of this, and its toll on management and the board’s
time,” Redmond said in the letter. “We are at this place as a
result of poor handling of the shareholders by management first,
and the majority of the board second, by not causing
responsiveness and transparency to be management’s mantra with
shareholders versus disregard and disingenuous lip service.”  Alden is not a “lone voice in the wilderness,” and it
would be “irresponsible” of Visteon to spend money on battling
the “reasonable agenda” put forth by Alden, Redmond said.  Visteon said in the filing that it “welcomes director
recommendations and other constructive input from its
shareholders and believes that, through an open dialogue, it
reached an agreement with Alden that is consistent with the best
interests of all of its shareholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 