-- 
Vivendi Profit Rises on Brazil, Activision’s ‘Call of Duty’

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-12T17:22:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/vivendi-s-profit-climbs-29-on-brazil-telecommunications-video-game-sales.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  said first-quarter profit
rose by 29 percent as sales grew in its video-game and Brazilian
telecommunications units, beating analysts’ estimates.  Adjusted net income, or profit excluding one-time gains and
some costs, rose to 950 million euros ($1.36 billion) from 736
million euros a year earlier, the owner of the world’s largest
music and video game companies said today. Profit had been
predicted at 793 million euros, the average of nine analyst
estimates. Sales gained 3.8 percent to 7.2 billion euros.  Chief Executive Officer Jean-Bernard Levy is focusing
Paris-based Vivendi on its core telecommunications business
before the entry of a fourth mobile operator, Iliad SA, in the
French market next year. Vivendi is also hunting growth in
emerging markets in  Africa  and  Latin America .  Sales at GVT, Vivendi’s Brazilian phone unit, rose 54
percent to 329 million euros, while those at Activision
Blizzard, the maker of the “Call for Duty” games franchise,
climbed 12 percent to 1.06 billion euros. The games unit
increased earnings before interest, taxes and amortization by
125 million euros, or 33 percent.  ‘Powerful Machine’  “Activision is still a powerful machine,” said  Claudio Aspesi , an analyst at Sanford Bernstein in  London . “Long term,
the narrowing number of big hits is a concern, but for now it’s
a strong business.”  Vivendi last month agreed to pay  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  7.95
billion euros for full control of SFR, France’s second-largest
mobile operator.  While Levy has said taking full control of Vivendi’s French
units is a priority for the company, he hasn’t succeeded in
agreeing on a deal with  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  to buy the 20 percent of
pay-TV operator Canal Plus France held by the publisher.  CEO Arnaud Lagardere this week reiterated that the company,
which publishes Elle and Paris Match, plans to proceed with an
initial public offering of the stake.  Vivendi confirmed its full-year outlook and said full-year
adjusted net income will exceed 3 billion euros. The company
said it will pay an increased dividend after the SFR deal.  In  Brazil , the company will focus on “organic growth” to
expand GVT’s footprint and content offerings, and major
acquisitions aren’t planned, Chief Financial Officer Philippe Capron said on a conference call.  Vivendi shares fell 1.6 percent in Paris today before the
results were released. The stock has fallen 5.4 percent this
year, valuing the company at 23.6 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.netvroot @bloomberg.net. 