-- 
Warhol, Rothko, Sherman Drive $301.7 Million Tally at Christie’s Auction

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-05-12T03:42:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/warhol-wig-fetches-27-5-million-fresh-rothko-stars-at-christie-s-auction.html
The market for trophy art roared
back after a three-night case of the blahs as Christie’s
International saw its biggest tally for a  New York  evening
contemporary-art sale since May 2008.  All but three of the 65 lots sold last night, with Cy Twombly and Richard Diebenkorn paintings setting records
and a Cindy Sherman fetching the highest price ever for a
photo at auction, $3.9 million.  The $301.7 million total surpassed the $299 million
high presale estimate and was the closely held auctioneer’s
largest in the category since the market was sideswiped by
the world financial crisis.  The top lot was  Andy Warhol ’s 1963-64 “Self-
Portrait,” made of four photo-booth-strip images in
different shades of blue.  It went for $38.4 million, above the $30 million high
estimate, after a tortuous -- some dealers said tedious --
bidding war between private  art dealer  Philippe Segalot and
a telephone client of Brett Gorvy, deputy chairman and
international head of postwar and contemporary art at
Christie’s. The price was an auction record for a Warhol
portrait.  Dealers said the evening offered rarer works than
 Sotheby’s (BID)  $128.1 million contemporary sale the previous
night. Collectors and dealers had likewise complained that
the two Impressionist and modern evening sales last week
skimped on masterpieces.  ‘Night and Day’  “It’s like night and day,” said Lucy Mitchell-Innes,
a New York art dealer. Sotheby’s on Tuesday night “was
dreary and a real struggle. It’s all about quality.”  Both of the major Sotheby’s New York evening sales
were at the low end of their estimates. The auctioneer’s
shares are off 23 percent since April 5.  Another highlight at Christie’s was an undocumented
1961 painting by  Mark Rothko  that went for $33.7 million,
above the high presale estimate of $22 million. Classical
postwar works by  Roy Lichtenstein , Alexander Calder and Sam
Francis brought strong results.  “Quality speaks,” said Daniella Luxembourg, private
art dealer in New York and  London . “The rarity of things
like Rothko is covering the aggressive estimates.”  ‘Because I Love It’  The most aggressively estimated Warhol of the season
didn’t fare as well. A 1986 self-portrait of the artist in
a spiky wig sold for $27.5 million, missing the low
estimate of $30 million. It landed with the Mugrabi family,
known for its vast Warhol collection and steadfast support
of the artist’s market.  When asked why he bought the Warhol, Jose Mugrabi
said, “Why? Because I love it. I have no client for it.”  Projected to fetch $30 million to $40 million, the
haunting 9-foot-square canvas had the highest forecast
during two weeks of Impressionist, modern and contemporary
art sales in New York.  Warhol’s auction record of $71.7 million was achieved
at Christie’s in 2007 with the sale of a 1963 canvas,
“Green Car Crash (Green Burning Car I).”  Rothko’s “Untitled No. 17” features pink and red
rectangles on a tangerine-yellow background. The 1961
painting, which hasn’t been seen publicly since 1965, is
one of 10 of his discovered since the publication of the
artist’s catalogue raisonne in 1998.  “It’s one of the very few that got away,” said David
Anfam, London-based art historian, recently. “It went to a
private collection soon after it was made and those
collectors just kept a very low profile.”  Bear by Urs  A giant, 35,000-pound yellow teddy bear by Urs Fischer, parked for the past month outside of  Manhattan ’s
Seagram building, sold for $6.8 million, a record for the
artist -- and for a teddy bear.  Christie’s charges buyers 25 percent of the hammer
price up to $50,000, plus 20 percent from $50,000 to $1
million, plus 12 percent above $1 million.  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 