-- 
Wastewater Information From Pennsylvania Gas Wells Sought by EPA

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-05-12T21:27:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/wastewater-information-from-pennsylvania-gas-wells-sought-by-epa.html
The U.S.  Environmental Protection
Agency  has asked six companies that drill for natural gas in
 Pennsylvania  to report where they dispose of or recycle
contaminated wastewater from hydraulic fracturing of rock.  The companies have until May 25 to disclose water treatment
plans, the EPA said today in a statement. The request targets
sites at which millions of gallons of water mixed with chemicals
are forced underground to break up rock and allow gas to flow.  The water that returns to the surface contains toxic
chemicals. Pennsylvania said that by May 19, the drillers can no
longer treat wastewater at 16 plants that don’t meet current
standards for removal of dissolved solids, said Kevin Sunday, a
spokesman for the state  Department of Environmental Protection .  “We want to make sure that the drillers are handling their
wastewater in an environmentally responsible manner,” Shawn
Garvin, EPA Mid-Atlantic regional administrator, said in a
statement.  Pennsylvania requires drillers to report how they treat or
dispose of wastewater from gas wells, Sunday said. In the year
from July 2009 to July 2010, 96.6 million gallons of wastewater
were produced from hydraulic fracturing, he said.  The EPA request went to  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Talisman Energy
Inc. (TLM) , Range Resources Inc.,  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. (COG) , SWEPI LP, and
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  The six companies account for more than
half of the natural gas produced in Pennsylvania, according to
the EPA.  Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake, the most active U.S.
natural-gas driller, recycles almost all drilling wastewater in
Pennsylvania at company filtration stations, spokesman Jim Gipson said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  