-- 
Obama Cybersecurity Plan Urges More Disclosure of Breaches

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s   a n d   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-05-12T20:23:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/white-house-releases-proposed-cybersecurity-legislation.html
The Obama administration’s proposal
for protecting banks, power grids and government computers from
cyber attacks urges tightening oversight of critical
infrastructure and requiring companies to notify consumers of
data breaches.  The Homeland Security Department would “work with
industry” to detect vulnerabilities in electrical grids and
financial networks, according to a summary of the proposal
released today by the White House. The plan also calls for
mandatory minimum penalties for computer-related crimes.  The administration’s proposal seeks to jump-start efforts
in Congress to update U.S. laws in response to the increased
threat of cyber attacks capable of crippling business and
government operations.  “Cyber crime has increased dramatically over the last
decade,” according to the  summary . “It has become clear that
our nation cannot fully defend against these threats unless
certain parts of cybersecurity law are updated.”  U.S. lawmakers introduced about 50 cybersecurity measures
in the last session of Congress, according to the White House
summary. Those measures include at least eight bills that seek
to boost security at energy and utility companies.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , who is compiling
comprehensive cybersecurity legislation on his side of  Capitol
Hill , solicited the administration’s proposal to guide
Congress’s efforts on the issue.  Symantec Rises  “Cybercrime, cyber industrial espionage and cyber attacks
cost American businesses and consumers billions of dollars per
year and threaten our economy and our national security,” Reid
said in a statement. “It is time to create the proper
authorities and enhance the tools to protect the  computer
networks  that are so crucial to our daily lives.”  Shares of  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , a leading provider of computer
security software, rose 5.2 percent to $20.42 at 4:00 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq composite trading, the most since August 19.  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) , another security provider, rose 3.5
percent to $39.81 at 4:02 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
trading, the most since March 11.  The White House proposal would require companies that
operate systems critical to the nation’s economy to develop
plans for securing their systems. They also would have to hire
commercial auditors to determine if the security procedures are
adequate. If not, the company would have the option to work with
the Homeland Security Department to strengthen the plan.  ‘Major Concern’  A “major concern for companies” is that the government
may choose to disclose the audits publicly, which “could turn
into a naming and shaming approach,” Travis Sharp, research
associate at the  Center for a New American Security , a
Washington-based policy research group, said in an interview.  “It could be good if it reveals that certain companies are
really good at cybersecurity,” he said, and create “an obvious
business benefit.”  Under the proposal, the Homeland Security Department would
be authorized to assist targeted companies seeking government
aid after a cyber attack, according to a White House official
who discussed the proposal on a conference call today. The
official spoke on condition of anonymity because the full
proposal had not yet been released.  Recent Assaults  The urgency of advancing a cybersecurity bill has been
heightened by recent assaults. The Senate’s Sergeant at Arms
reported last year that computer systems of Congress and
executive branch agencies are probed or attacked 1.8 billion
times per month, costing about $8 billion annually.  “Cybersecurity is finally getting the proper attention
that it needs,” said Lawrence Ponemon, founder of the  Ponemon
Institute , an information-security research group. He said the
U.S. is “lucky” it hasn’t had a serious cyber attack to
infrastructure like a power grid or oil refinery.  Data breaches cost U.S. businesses an average of $7.2
million per incident last year, according to a March report by
the Ponemon Institute.  Sony Corp. took down its PlayStation Network and Qriocity
services April 20 because of  data theft  affecting 77 million
users. Sony Online Entertainment, a U.S. unit that offers online
games, also shut its network May 1 after discovering personal
information from approximately 24.6 million accounts may have
been compromised.  Least-Prescriptive Approach  The White House proposal also seeks to standardize what it
calls a patchwork of state laws requiring businesses to inform
their customers in the event of a breach affecting consumers’
personal data. It also encourages businesses to voluntarily
share information about network intrusions and computer viruses
with federal, state and local government authorities.  The administration wants to take the least-prescriptive
approach possible, a senior official said during the conference
call. The rationale behind the proposal was that the White House
doesn’t have all the answers, the official said, speaking on
condition of anonymity.  “Trusted, secure networks are now the foundation of our
nation’s infrastructure,” said Phil Bond, chief executive of
TechAmerica, the Washington-based technology industry
association, said in a statement. The administration’s focus on
a partnership between the government and the private sector is
key since “the private sector owns or operates the vast
majority of our nation’s critical infrastructure.”  The proposal also calls for updating existing law on
securing federal computer systems. It recommends recruiting
talented cybersecurity professionals and authorizing the
Homeland Security Department to “oversee intrusion prevention
systems for all Federal Executive Branch civilian computers.”  The department would be directed to modify federal
acquisition rules to reward companies that have secure systems,
according to senior administration officials who spoke on the
conference call.  “It’s a really smart move,” Sharp said. “Prioritizing
security in acquisition helps stop problems before they start.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juliann Neher in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  