-- 
Wholesale Prices in U.S. Rise More-Than-Forecast 0.8%, Led by Food, Energy

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-05-12T12:54:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/wholesale-prices-in-u-s-rise-0-8-led-by-food-energy-costs.html
Wholesale costs in the U.S. rose more
than forecast in April, led by higher prices for food and fuel.  The 0.8 percent increase in the producer-price index
compares with the 0.6 percent median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, Labor Department figures showed
today in Washington. The core measure, which excludes volatile
food and energy costs, climbed 0.3 percent, more than projected.  Rising costs may lead businesses such as  Whole Foods Market
Inc. (WFMI)  to increase prices, boosting the cost of living for
American consumers. At the same time, Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said he expects commodity prices to moderate.  “Inflation really shouldn’t be much of a concern beyond
food and energy prices, and that’s going to be more of a near-
term phenomenon,” said Sean Incremona, a senior economist at
4Cast Inc. in New York who accurately forecast the gains. “The
core is very gradually moving higher, but it doesn’t look to be
running away anytime soon.”  A separate report today from the Commerce Department showed
that retail sales rose 0.5 percent in April, reflecting gains at
service stations and grocery stores. The increase was the
smallest since July and followed a 0.9 percent March gain that
was more than double the previous estimate. Sales excluding
automobiles and gasoline increased 0.2 percent.  Treasuries, Stocks  Stock-index futures held earlier losses after the reports.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.5 percent
to 1,332.2 at 8:51 a.m. in  New York .  Treasury securities  fell,
sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 3.17
percent from 3.16 percent late yesterday.  Estimates for producer prices were based on forecasts from
72 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Projections ranged from
gains of 0.3 percent to 1.3 percent, after a 0.7 percent rise in
March.  Another Labor Department report today showed fewer
Americans filed first-time claims for  unemployment insurance 
last week. Applications for jobless benefits fell 44,000 in the
week ended May 7 to 434,000.  Wholesale prices excluding volatile food and energy costs
were projected to rise 0.2 percent from the prior month, the
Bloomberg survey showed. The core index rose 0.3 percent in
March.  Compared with a year earlier, companies paid 6.8 percent
more for goods last month, the most since September 2008, after
a 5.8 percent rise in March.  Core wholesale prices climbed 2.1 percent in the 12 months
ended in April, the most since August 2009.  Energy Costs  Energy costs rose 2.5 percent as gasoline prices climbed
3.6 percent. Companies were charged 0.6 percent more for light
motor trucks, while prices for passenger cars increased 0.5
percent.  The cost of food increased 0.3 percent, led by dairy
products, after a 0.2 percent decline in March.  Producer prices are calculated based on costs on the
Tuesday of the week containing the 13th of the month, which may
influence month-to-month changes.  Expenses for intermediate goods rose 1.3 percent from the
prior month, while prices of crude goods increased 4 percent.  “Increases in commodity prices are in turn boosting
overall consumer inflation,” Bernanke said last month at a
press conference in  Washington . “However, measures of
underlying inflation, though having increased modestly in recent
months, remain subdued, and longer-term inflation expectations
have remained stable.”  Preferred Gauge  The central bank’s preferred price gauge, which excludes
food and fuel, rose 0.9 percent in March from a year earlier.
Fed policy makers aim for long-run overall inflation of 1.7
percent to 2 percent.  Prices may continue to climb later this year, according to
A.C. Gallo, president and chief operating officer of Whole
Foods, the largest U.S. natural-goods grocer. Beef, dairy, corn
and soy are major among commodities experiencing inflation, said
the executive of the Austin, Texas-based company.  “We have been able to pass some of them through,” Gallo
said in a May 4 earnings call with analysts, referring to cost
increases. “There is some uncertainty based on not quite
understanding what kind of inflation we’ll be seeing in our
costs and what will be able to pass through.”  Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department. Prices of goods imported into
the U.S. climbed 2.2 percent in April from the prior month, data
showed this week. Imported food costs were up 20 percent from a
year earlier, the biggest 12-month increase since records began
in 1977.  Consumer prices, the broadest of the three measures, rose
0.4 percent in April and the core index had a 0.2 percent gain,
according to the median forecasts of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg before a Labor Department report tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  