-- 
Woodside Petroleum Appoints Ex-ExxonMobil Executive Peter Coleman as CEO

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-05-12T06:29:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/woodside-petroleum-appoints-ex-exxonmobil-executive-peter-coleman-as-ceo.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s
second-largest oil and natural gas producer, named Peter Coleman,
a 27-year  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  veteran, as the new chief executive
officer to replace Don Voelte.  The 51-year-old Australian will start May 30, the Perth-
based company said in a statement today. Coleman was previously
vice president of Exxon Mobil Development Co., where he led work
on more than $40 billion of projects worldwide.  He takes control of a company that’s been the subject of
takeover speculation since its biggest shareholder,  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) , sold part of its stake last year. Coleman’s challenge
will be to drive development of Woodside’s liquefied natural gas
ventures, including the A$30 billion ($32 billion) Browse
project, as industry costs rise and LNG demand soars in  Asia .  Voelte “was quite aggressive -- that was probably needed
by Woodside to jolt them into activity,” said Peter Rudd,
mining and resources research manager at Armytage Private Ltd.,
a Melbourne-based investment firm that oversees A$420 million in
assets and owns Woodside shares. “Now they need a man who has a
good production background to bring projects on stream and
manage costs. Coleman has the appropriate background.”  Nebraska-born Voelte, 58, who joined the company in 2004,
plans to leave at the end of June. Woodside shares have
almost tripled since April 5, 2004, when Voelte took over. The
stock has gained 5.5 percent in the past year, lagging behind
the 9.7 percent advance in the S&P/ASX 200 Energy Index.  ‘Coleman a Surprise’  Woodside, which has a A$36 billion market value, dropped
2.5 percent to A$45.03 at the 4:10 p.m. Sydney time close,
compared with a 1.8 percent decline in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
Index. That compares with a 3.1 percent fall for  Santos Ltd. (STO)  and
a 2.8 percent decline for Oil Search Ltd., two other oil and gas
producers that trade in Sydney.  “Coleman is a surprise, but investors are asking
themselves if he’s a good successor, and most would say he
probably is,” said  Chris Weston , an institutional dealer at IG
Markets in Melbourne. “The sell-off is in line with others.”  Coleman must unite Woodside’s Browse partners --  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Royal Dutch Shell Plc and BP Plc -
-- and resolve a dispute with  East Timor  over the development of
the Sunrise gas field. Some Browse partners may want to change
the plan for the processing of the gas, analysts including Neil Beveridge of Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. have said.  ‘Ticks the Boxes’  “He’s got the LNG experience, and he’s got the big company
experience, and from that perspective Woodside ticks a couple of
boxes,”  Andrew Williams , head of energy research at RBC Capital
Markets in  Melbourne , said by phone. “Having worked at Exxon,
that will help in dealing with companies like Chevron.”  The proposed Sunrise LNG venture is at a stalemate, Voelte
said in April. The government of East Timor wants an LNG plant
built there and not offshore on a floating platform.  Woodside remains in talks with The Hague-based Shell about
the European oil company’s remaining 24 percent stake in the
company, Voelte said last week. Woodside was “surprised” when
Shell decided to sell 10 percent last year, he said in February.
Woodside wanted to be “proactive” in talking with Shell should
the oil producer move to sell the rest of the shares, he said.  Shell’s potential sale of the Woodside interest has
prompted speculation that Melbourne-based BHP or another company
may buy the stake or the whole company.  Papua New Guinea   Coleman, born in  Australia ’s Victoria state and educated at
 Monash University  and Deakin University, had responsibility for
ventures such as the $15 billion LNG project operated by Exxon
in Papua New Guinea.  The former Exxon executive, who began his career with the
company in 1984 as a drilling engineer at Australian unit Esso,
will receive A$2.1 million a year, plus performance-based awards
and a “sign-on” incentive of Woodside shares valued at A$3
million, Woodside said today.  Woodside announced in October that Voelte planned to retire
in the second half of 2011 and that it would consider executives
inside and outside the company as possible successors. Voelte is
a former head of exploration at Mobil Corp.  Top internal contenders to succeed Voelte were  Kevin Gallagher , executive vice president of the North West Shelf
project, and Lucio Della Martina, who runs Pluto, analysts
including Nomura Holdings Inc.’s Xavier Grunauer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 