-- 
Cannibals Meet ‘South Pacific’ in True Tale of Crash Survival

-- B y   A n d r e w   D u n n
-- 
2011-05-12T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/world-war-ii-plane-crash-thrust-u-s-soldiers-into-real-life-lost-books.html
On Mother’s Day in 1945, 24 U.S.
servicemen and -women based in Dutch New Guinea were on a
sightseeing excursion when their plane crashed near an uncharted
valley surrounded by jungle. Three survived.  Mitchell Zuckoff’s  “ Lost in Shangri-La”  may draw
comparisons to the work of Jules Verne, Edgar Rice Burroughs and
James Hilton but could just as easily stand alongside “South
Pacific,” “Lost” and “Gilligan’s Island.”  This engrossing book features vivid, sometimes improbable,
detail thanks to Zuckoff’s thorough research. He interviewed
surviving eyewitnesses and unearthed contemporaneous diaries,
photographs and movie footage. The pace is swift and the story
is peopled with characters drawn with just enough attention to
lift them above Central Casting stereotypes.  Shangri-La, as the U.S. press dubbed the valley, was home
to tens of thousands of Yali and Dani people who still used
stone tools and fought routine  Hatfield-McCoy  type inter-village
wars. Carefully tended fields surrounded clusters of sturdy
buildings. Men in watchtowers provided security against attack.  The three survivors got along with the Dani people, so
after the initial horror of the crash their main problem was
figuring out how to get home. Rescue planes couldn’t land safely
in the valley, which was thought to be surrounded by headhunters
and Japanese soldiers who stayed behind after the Allied
invasion. Hiking through such hostile territory with the injured
survivors was believed to be almost impossible.  Two medics were dropped in to treat the survivors’ wounds,
followed by a larger party of paratroopers who arrived without a
rescue plan. Their eventual, typically audacious Yankee
solution, which I won’t give away, involved a glider with a
disconcerting name.  Ready for Hollywood  All the characters seem tailor-made for a Hollywood movie.
The survivors are almost too good to be true: grieving young
Lieutenant John McCollom, good-humored Sergeant Kenneth Decker
and plucky Corporal Margaret Hastings: “She’s blonde. She’s
cute. She’s the No. 1 adventure girl in World War II,” the
Boston Sunday Advertiser trumpeted.  The rescuers, a unit of Filipino-Americans who were itching
to help drive the Japanese from their homeland, included a medic
who escaped from captivity after the Bataan Death March and a
reformed bad boy trying to prove himself to his war-hero father.  The people of Shangri-La -- actually the Baliem Valley in
what is now part of  Indonesia  -- included a local leader whose
suspicions about the intruders were tempered by curiosity about
their odd appearance. Corporal Hastings developed a bond with
one of the village women even though neither could speak the
other’s language, “a case of understanding the heart,” as
Hastings wrote in her diary.  American Bounty  Throughout, the Army dropped in a nonstop flow of American
bounty: “sliced bacon in cans, canned ham and eggs, canned
bacon and eggs, canned meat, canned hash and stews, the makings
of coffee, tea, cocoa, lemonade and orangeade, butter, sugar,
salt, canned milk, cigarettes, matches, and even candy bars for
dessert.”  By late June the Americans were gone, taking a few
souvenirs and a hell of a story.  Zuckoff attaches a bittersweet coda to the happy ending.
Publicity surrounding the rescue drew missionaries and curiosity
seekers to the valley, and with them rapid change.  Gone are the routine warfare and rituals such as the
mutilation of women’s hands. But the once-bountiful valley’s
economy is in a shambles. AIDS is rampant. A few old beggars
wander the streets in traditional garb (a single, carefully
placed gourd), but most people opt for imported shorts and T-
shirts.  Zuckoff visited the valley and talked to people who were
children when the plane -- pieces of which can still be found --
went down. It’s breathtaking to imagine the passage of the local
people from Stone Age to space age in two generations.  The epic of Shangri-La has ended. Life in the Baliem Valley
goes on.  “Lost in Shangri-La: A True Story of Survival, Adventure
and the Most Incredible Rescue Mission of World War II” is
published by Harper (384 pages, $26.99). To buy this book in
North America click  here .  ( Andrew Dunn  writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on the story:
Andrew Dunn in New York at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  