-- 
Xinhua Finance Ex-CEO Bush Denies Part in U.S. Insider-Trading Allegations

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-13T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/xinhua-finance-ex-ceo-fredy-bush-vows-to-fight-u-s-insider-trading-charge.html
Xinhua Finance Inc.’s former chief
executive officer, Loretta Fredy Bush, denies that she was part
of a $50 million  insider-trading  scheme that defrauded investors
and U.S. regulators, her lawyer said.  Bush, along with former Xinhua Finance board members Shelly Singhal and Dennis Pelino, were charged May 10 in federal court
in Washington with conspiracy, mail fraud and false statements.
Shanghai-based Xinhua Finance, the first Chinese company listed
on the Tokyo stock exchange, provides information products
focused on Chinese and international financial markets.  The three are accused of using entities to disguise the
sale of shares in Shanghai-based Xinhua Finance from the
Securities and Exchange Commission and investors and engage in
insider trading, according to an indictment. They are also
accused of manipulating the company’s balance sheet to avoid
impairment charges.  “The allegations regarding Ms. Bush are characterizations
of legitimate business transactions by disgraced lawyers who
have pleaded guilty to lying to prosecutors about other matters
and now are trying to curry favor with these prosecutors,”
Bush’s lawyer, Charles Leeper of Drinker Biddle & Reath in
 Washington , said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Pelino denies the charges, claiming that lawful business
transactions were “misconstrued” by prosecutors, according to
an e-mailed statement from his lawyer, Atlee Wampler, in Miami.
It is also unlikely the U.S. has jurisdiction over the China-
based company, Wampler said in the statement.  Singhal and Bush face nine charges. Pelino, who was charged
with an additional false statements count, faces 10 charges.
Each mail fraud count carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in
prison.  Arraignment Scheduled  All three remain free pending arraignment scheduled for
May 17.  Xinhua Finance said in statement yesterday that none of the
three defendants have worked at the company since January 2009.  “The Company’s current management and board members have
no knowledge of the transactions stated in the indictment,” the
company said.  Bush, 52, co-founded Xinhua Finance with Pelino in 1999.
She was the company’s chief executive officer and vice chairman
of its board of directors until January 2009, according to the
indictment. She lives in  Shanghai , prosecutors said.  Compensation Committee  Pelino, 63, was chairman of the compensation committee and
a member of the audit and investment committees, according to
the indictment, and Singhal, 43, was chairman of Xinhua
Finance’s audit committee and a member of its compensation and
investment committees.  The scheme allegedly began in January 2004 when Singhal and
Pelino “induced” the owner of a New York-based company to sell
a warrant to buy preferred Xinhua Finance shares. The New York
company was told by Xinhua Finance that it had defaulted on the
warrant and demanded a $3 million payment, prosecutors said.
Singhal and Pelino called the owner and said they had found an
investor to buy the warrant, according to the indictment.  Using a middleman and a fictitious entity, Singhal and
Pelino allegedly bought the warrant. The two are accused of then
using the warrant to purchase restricted Xinhua Finance shares,
which were deposited in a brokerage account in the name of
Entree Capital. The account was controlled by Singhal and used
by Singhal and Pelino to disguise their involvement, prosecutors
said.  Lock-up Period  In March 2005, Bush authorized an acceleration of the so-
called lock-up period of the shares held by Entree Capital,
meaning the brokerage account could begin selling its Xinhua
Finance shares about four weeks before other investors, the
indictment alleges.  At Singhal’s direction, Entree Capital allegedly sold off
some of its Xinhua Finance shares, valued at $16.6 million,
during the lock-up period. The deal netted $10.1 million for
Singhal, $5.8 million for Pelino and $2.3 million for Bush, the
indictment alleges.  In 2006, Bush violated her company’s insider trading policy
by selling more than $15 million worth of Xinhua Finance shares
during a “blackout period” through Bedrock Securities LLC, a
broker-dealer company controlled by Singhal, according to the
indictment.  When the National Association of Securities Dealers opened
an investigation into Bedrock, Singhal ordered the sales
agreements to be backdated and changed in order to give the
appearance that Bush pledged the shares to Bedford Proprietary
Trading LLC in order to secure a loan, the indictment alleges.
Bedford was another company controlled by Singhal, the
government alleges.  Shares Sale  From January 2006 through May 2008, Bush and Pelino sold
more than $25 million worth of Xinhua Finance shares through
Bedrock Securities and Bedford, the indictment charges.  Singhal and Bush also illegally profited by setting up
commission deals between companies Singhal controlled and Xinhua
Finance for arranging transactions, according to prosecutors.
From April 2006 through January 2007, Bush made $1.8 million and
Singhal was paid $5.5 million from the arrangement, the
indictment alleges.  Singhal’s lawyers, Barbara Van Gelder and Mark Srere in
Washington, didn’t immediately return telephone messages seeking
comment.  This is the second criminal case against Singhal. He was
indicted last year in Washington and is accused of a running a
$10 million stock manipulation conspiracy. Three lawyers have
pleaded guilty in that case and agreed to cooperate.  The case is U.S. v. Singhal, 11-cr-00142, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 