-- 
Yahoo Says Alibaba Transferred Alipay Without Telling Board, Shareholders

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-05-13T03:08:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/yahoo-notified-by-alibaba-of-alipay-reorganization-on-march-31.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. spun off
its Alipay online-payment business to a different company
without the knowledge or consent of its board or shareholders,
Yahoo! Inc. said.  Yahoo and  Softbank Corp. (9984) , owners of stakes in Alibaba
Group, didn’t learn until March 31 of the transfer, which
happened in August, Yahoo said in a statement yesterday. Alibaba
shifted ownership of Alipay to a company mostly owned by Jack Ma, chief executive officer of Alibaba Group, to comply with
Chinese restrictions on foreign ownership of payment services,
Yahoo said in a May 11 regulatory filing.  By owning about 40 percent of Alibaba Group, Yahoo benefits
from rising Internet demand in China, where restrictions on Web
content make it hard for U.S. companies to do business alone.
The transfer raised concern that Alibaba Group will be worth
less without the payment business, weighing on Yahoo shares. It
also may worsen relations between Yahoo and Alibaba, already
strained by disagreements over censorship rules in  China .  “It’s generally a bad precedent when you’re finding out
the information after it’s already done,” said Kerry Rice, an
analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc. in  Los Angeles , who rates
Yahoo “underperform” and doesn’t own it. “It’s pretty clear
that Jack did this without telling Yahoo.”  `Fiduciary Issues'  Alibaba spokesman John Spelich today said he couldn’t
immediately comment on Yahoo’s claim that the board wasn’t
notified of the change in advance. Spelich yesterday said the
change was to comply with People’s Bank of China’s restrictions
on foreign ownership of payment services.  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale,  California , dropped as much as
7.3 percent in extended trading after the statement was
released. It had slipped 3 cents to $17.17 at 4 p.m. New York
time on the Nasdaq Stock Market yesterday.  Yahoo said it and Softbank are in discussions with Alibaba
to ensure that Alibaba Group is compensated for the loss of
Alipay.  “Yahoo continues to work closely with Alibaba and Softbank
to protect economic value for all interested parties,” Yahoo
said in yesterday’s statement. “We believe ongoing negotiations
among all of the parties provide the best opportunity to achieve
an outcome in the best interest of all stakeholders.”  China License  Alipay is required to get a license from the People’s Bank
of China to operate its payment business, and was restructured
as a Chinese domestic company to speed up getting the license,
Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Yahoo, said May 11.  Still, making the transfer without the approval of the
board or the shareholders “raises all kinds of fiduciary duty
issues,” said  Charles Elson ,  director  of the John L. Weinberg
Center for  Corporate Governance  at the University of  Delaware .  Yahoo Japan Corp. and Alibaba.com, the publicly traded unit
of Alibaba Group, make up about $8 per share alone in Yahoo’s
value, Greenlight Capital Inc. wrote in an April 29 letter to
clients. Yahoo’s stake in Alibaba ultimately may be worth as
much as the company’s entire current market value, wrote
Greenlight, which is run by  David Einhorn .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  