-- 
Yankees Let Fans Take Batting Practice at Stadium; Bring $1,500 and a Bat

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-05-12T16:47:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/yankees-let-fans-take-batting-practice-at-stadium-bring-1-500-and-a-bat.html
New York  Yankees fans can stand at
home plate at Yankee Stadium and take batting practice swings
just like  Derek Jeter  and  Alex Rodriguez  -- for a price.  Bring your own bat, and leave your spikes at home.  On June 5, the Yankees and  Steiner Sports Collectibles  will
hold their event that includes batting practice, tours of the
stadium, a catered lunch and gifts -- all for a cost of $1,500
to $3,000 per batter.  “There is no experience like this,” Steiner Sports
President Brandon Steiner said in a telephone interview.
“People just melt when they get on the field.”  The Yankees-Steiner Home Run Classic event is scheduled for
a Sunday when the Yankees are in California playing the  Los
Angeles Angels  in the finale of a nine-game road trip, so no
Yankee players will be at the stadium. This is the event’s third
year and two previous participants -- out of several hundred --
have hit home runs over the outfield fence, Steiner said. There
will be a limit of 110 participants this year.  Fans will have their picture displayed on the stadium
scoreboard and then get two rounds of live-pitching batting
practice lasting a total of about 5 minutes. Participants must
be 18 or older and can bring one guest for free to watch their
batting session from the stands. Additional guests cost $150
apiece, according to an e-mail sent to Yankees ticket holders.  Fans aren’t permitted to wear cleats, can’t run the bases
and must use wooden bats they supply. Only still pictures are
allowed, not video recordings.  Tour, Lunch  Following their batting practice session, fans will get a
tour of the Yankees’ clubhouse and museum followed by a lunch
catered by  Lobel’s  of New York, a premium butcher shop. A
standard-package gift bag for each participant includes a photo
collage from the day and a game-used baseball from this season.  Yankees memorabilia is available in other packages, with
items including a ball signed by Jeter or a Yankee Stadium
commemorative seat.  The $3,000 “Perfect Package” includes a  signed photograph 
featuring the six Yankee pitchers and catchers who have been
involved in perfect games --  Don Larsen ,  Yogi Berra ,  David Wells ,  Jorge Posada , David Cone and  Joe Girardi . The Yankees and
Steiner Sports have been partners since 2004 and began the
batting practice event in 2009, the first year at the $1.1
billion stadium in the Bronx.  Steiner said his company will conduct similar events at
Boston’s Fenway Park and Chicago’s Wrigley Field.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  