-- 
Yemen Security Forces Fire on Protesters; Three Reported Dead in Al-Baidah

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-05-12T15:38:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/yemen-security-forces-fire-on-protesters-three-reported-dead-in-al-baidah.html
Yemeni security forces fired on anti-
government protesters in flash-point cities in the south of the
country amid a crackdown that may wreck Gulf Arab efforts to
broker a peace accord.  Three demonstrators were shot dead and seven were wounded
by police today in al-Baidah, according to the opposition
website al-Sahwa, which also said 20 protesters were hurt in
Taiz. A field doctor in Taiz, Abdulraheem al-Samee, said earlier
today that eight sustained gunshot wounds when police and armed
supporters of the government targeted protesters.  Twelve people were killed yesterday in the capital, Sana’a,
and more than 240 others were injured by gunfire, a medic, Tarik
al-Duais, said in a phone interview. Three more protesters were
killed yesterday in Taiz city, Abdulraheem al-Samee, another
medic, said by telephone. A protester was killed yesterday in
the port city of Hodiedah, Abdulhafiz Mujib, an activist, said
in a phone interview.  Protests have persisted since the government and the Joint
Meetings Party, Yemen’s six-party opposition coalition, agreed
last month to a Gulf Cooperation Council-brokered plan for
PresidentAli Abdullah Saleh to cede power within a month of
signing the deal and be granted immunity from prosecution. He
would be the third Middle Eastern leader forced from office by
protest movements this year, after  Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak  and
 Tunisia ’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.  Demonstrations Tomorrow  The Joint Meetings Party called for massive demonstrations
tomorrow, in an e-mailed statement. The ruling party called for
rival rallies to support Saleh, Tarik al-Shami, spokesman for
the ruling General People’s Congress, said by phone.  In  Washington , a State Department spokesman, Mark Toner,
said the U.S. “is deeply concerned” by recent violence
throughout Yemen.  “We call on the Yemeni security forces to exercise maximum
restraint, refrain from violence and respect the rights of the
Yemeni people to freely and peacefully assemble and express
their views,” he said in a statement today that also commended
the GCC’s efforts and urged all parties to sign the draft
agreement.  Demonstrators have rejected the GCC plan and say Saleh must
quit immediately. The Joint Meetings Party said on May 8 that
Saleh should sign the document within two days and warned that
it will otherwise join forces with demonstrators in the streets.  The deadline was rejected by Saleh’s ruling General
People’s Congress, which said such pressure may cause the GCC-
sponsored peace talks to collapse. The party said all protests,
including rebellions by some military units, should end before
Saleh steps down.  Demonstrations to call for an end to Saleh’s 32-year rule
began in January. At least 100 protesters have been shot dead by
the security forces, according to the Arabic Sisters Forum for
Human Rights in Sana’a.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 