-- 
Dollar Rises Before Data on Sentiment, Homes; Won Drops as BOK Holds Rates

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-05-13T03:50:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/yen-maintains-loss-as-commodities-stocks-sap-safety-demand.html
The dollar rose toward a six-week
high against the euro after Treasury yields climbed and
economists projected that U.S.  consumer confidence  improved,
boosting demand for assets in the world’s largest economy.  The greenback headed for a weekly gain against 12 of its 16
major counterparts before a report next week forecast to show
U.S. housing starts advanced last month. South  Korea ’s won
dropped to a one-week low after the central bank unexpectedly
held off from increasing  interest rates . The yen rose versus the
euro as tightening measures by  China  spurred drops in Asian
stocks, supporting demand for Japan’s currency as a refuge.  “There will be chatter about a gradual reduction in
monetary easing as the U.S. continues to recover for a few
months, albeit at a slow pace,” said  Daisaku Ueno , president of
Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd. in Tokyo, a unit of  Japan ’s
largest online currency broker. “I expect the dollar to rise.”  The dollar advanced to $1.4196 as of 12:45 p.m. in Tokyo
from $1.4246 in  New York , after gaining to $1.4124 yesterday,
the highest since April 1. The yen climbed to 114.79 per euro
from 115.31 yesterday, when it reached 114.19, the strongest
since March 28. The dollar slipped to 80.85 yen from 80.94  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, advanced 0.3
percent to 75.382. It’s up 0.7 percent this week, second for a
second-straight gain.  Consumer Confidence  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
consumer sentiment index rose to 70 this month from 69.8 in
April, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey before today’s data. Treasury 10-year
yields climbed six basis points to 3.22 percent yesterday and
were little changed today.  U.S. housing starts increased 3.8 percent to a 570,000
annual rate in April, a separate Bloomberg survey showed before
the Commerce Department reports the data on May 17.  The won dropped after the  Bank of Korea  kept its benchmark
rate at 3 percent, having increased it twice this year to help
tame inflation. Two of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast the decision, while 12 predicted a quarter of a
percentage point increase.  “Expectations for a rate increase had been limiting
declines in the won this week,” said Yun Se Min, a currency
dealer at Busan Bank in  Seoul .  The won lost 0.6 percent to 1,091.58 per dollar. It touched
1,092.38, the weakest level since April 19.  Reserve Ratios  China’s central bank raised  reserve requirements  yesterday
after reports showed inflation and lending exceeded economists’
estimates in April, with consumer prices gaining more than 5
percent. The half-point increase in banks’ reserve requirements
takes effect May 18 and will boost levels for the nation’s
biggest lenders to a record 21 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of regional shares slipped 0.8
percent after rising 0.1 percent earlier today.  The euro extended its second weekly drop against the
greenback before European finance ministers meet in Brussels on
May 16. They will discuss more support for  Greece  beyond the 110
billion-euro ($156 billion) rescue granted a year ago,
Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group, said
yesterday in Mainz,  Germany .  “Ahead of European financial ministers’ meetings next
week, we may get some comments from high-ranking officials,”
said Keiji Matsumoto, a currency strategist in  Tokyo  at SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc. “Investors are reluctant to buy the
euro.”  Europe Growth, Rates  The euro has dropped 1.7 percent over the past month in a
measure of the currencies of 10 developed nations, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen has
gained 4.2 percent, while the dollar is up 0.2 percent.  Losses in the euro were limited before a report today that
may show the region’s economy grew at a faster pace, adding to
evidence that the  European Central Bank  will raise interest
rates further.  Europe’s economy expanded at a 2.2 percent annual rate in
the first quarter after a 2 percent pace of growth in the last
three months of 2010, according to the median forecast of 24
economists in a Bloomberg News survey before today’s report.  “Economic fundamentals in  Europe  are resilient,” said
Kengo Suzuki, manager of the foreign bond department in Tokyo at
Mizuho Securities Co. “It supports expectations for a series of
interest-rate increases.”  The ECB will boost its benchmark rate by 91 basis points
over the next 12 months, a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on
swaps showed yesterday, compared with a prediction for 78 basis
points of increases on May 6.  The central bank on May 5 left its benchmark interest rate
at 1.25 percent after lifting the rate in April. President Jean- Claude Trichet said the ECB will monitor inflation risks “very
closely,” while he signaled the central bank will wait until
after June to lift borrowing costs again.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at   myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 