-- 
Zon Multimedia Is Confident of Earnings Growth This Year, da Costa Says

-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-05-12T10:38:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-12/zon-multimedia-is-confident-of-earnings-growth-this-year-da-costa-says.html
Zon Multimedia SGPS SA,  Portugal ’s
biggest cable-television provider, predicts earnings will keep
growing this year, as costs fall and revenue gains slow amid a
weak domestic economy.  “We are confident we will be able to increase free cash
flow” and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization this year, Chief Financial Officer Jose Pedro Pereira da Costa said in a telephone interview. “For any
slowdown in the rhythm of sales, there will be a greater effort
in controlling costs.”  Portugal last month became the third country in the euro
region to request external aid, following Greece and Ireland. In
return for a bailout from the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund  the government is imposing austerity measures such
as freezing public-sector wages and cutting pensions and tax
benefits.  First-quarter sales rose 0.3 percent from a year earlier to
214.1 million euros ($304 million), the Lisbon-based company
said yesterday. The rate of increase has slowed from the 7.3
percent for 2010, hurt by a slower advance in the number of
triple-play clients subscribing to phone, Internet and TV
services.  Triple-play clients increased 24 percent from a year
earlier to 666,000 in the first quarter. A year earlier, triple-
play customers increased 58 percent in the period.  Operating costs declined 4 percent with commercial costs
falling 8.9 percent in the quarter. Ebitda climbed 8.5 percent
to 79.5 million euros.  Declining Costs  “Commercial costs are declining as we are gaining fewer
clients,” Pereira da Costa said. “We are seeing less pressure
from our competition, as everyone is aiming at keeping the
clients they have instead of growing at any cost.” Expenses for
installing terminal equipment at clients’ homes are also
declining, he said.  Free  cash flow  was negative 1.4 million euros, an
improvement on the negative 34 million euros a year earlier.
Free cash flow would have been “largely positive” in the
quarter if not for some payments to suppliers resulting from
“the high level” of fourth-quarter  capital spending , Zon said.  Zon aims to end the year with about 40 million euros a
quarter for Ebitda minus capital spending, Pereira da Costa
said. It was 40.7 million euros in the first quarter.  Capital spending dropped 28 percent to 38.8 million euros
in the first quarter. Zon forecast on Feb. 16 that capital
expenditure will decline to 155 million euros to 160 million
euros this year from 248 million euros in 2010.  The refinancing of a 150 million-euro commercial paper line
until 2016 means the company doesn’t need refinancing until the
end of 2012, instead of mid-2012, Pereira da Costa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 