-- ‘Iron Man 3’ Tops Weekend Sales Again With $72.5 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-05-13T21:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/-iron-man-3-tops-weekend-movie-sales-again-with-72-5-million.html
“Iron Man 3” took in $72.5 million
in ticket sales to retain first place at U.S. and Canadian
cinemas for a second weekend for  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Marvel unit.  “The Great Gatsby,” Warner Bros.’ 3-D take on  F. Scott
Fitzgerald ’s tale of excess and unrequited love in the Roaring
’20s, was second with $50.1 million, researcher Hollywood.com
Box-Office said today in an e-mailed statement.  “Iron Man 3,” starring Robert Downey Jr., opened with
$174.1 million in receipts, the second-biggest debut ever. The
movie’s sales are tracking similarly to those of “The
Avengers,” also from Disney. That film included the “Iron
Man” character with other Marvel superheroes and premiered the
first weekend of May last year, generating the biggest opening
weekend ever ($207.4 million).  “‘Iron Man 3’ is a proven story with a great cast and it
continues the winning record of other Marvel franchises,
including ‘‘The Avengers,’’’ said Paul Sweeney, a Bloomberg
Industries analyst. The movie is well on its way to $1 billion
in sales globally, though ‘‘Star Trek’’ should take the top spot
this coming weekend when it debuts, he said.  ‘‘The Great Gatsby’’ and ‘‘Iron Man 3’’ build momentum for
a summer film lineup that may reverse a 12 percent decline in
attendance this year. ‘‘Star Trek Into Darkness,’’ the second
film in the reboot of the ‘‘Star Trek’’ franchise, opens next
weekend. The film, from  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount Pictures, is
predicted to generate $128 million in its debut and $346 million
in its U.S. theatrical run, according to researcher
 Boxoffice.com.   Summer Movies  ‘‘Star Trek’’ will be followed by other potential hits,
including Universal Pictures’ ‘‘Fast & Furious 6’’ and ‘‘The
Hangover Part III,’’ from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros. unit.  In ‘‘Iron Man 3,’’ the ingenuity and confidence of Downey’s
billionaire industrialist character, Tony Stark, are tested
after a surprise attack destroys his laboratory and the armored
suits he dons to become Iron Man.  Ben Kingsley stars as The Mandarin, the apparent terrorist
who threatens the world order. Don Cheadle returns as Stark’s
friend, James Rhodes, and Gwyneth Paltrow reprises her role as
Pepper Potts.  ‘‘The Great Gatsby” stars Leonardo DiCaprio as Jay Gatsby,
an enigmatic millionaire obsessed with breaking up the marriage
of his first love, a woman now the wife of a boorish, old-money
snob. Gatsby’s love, Daisy, is played by Carey Mulligan. Joel Edgerton plays her philandering husband Tom, and Tobey Maguire
portrays Gatsby confidant Nick Carraway.  Tepid Reviews  The film, made for about $127 million, was projected to
take in as much as $50 million over the weekend, the upper
estimate of Ben Mogil, an analyst for Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
St. Louis. Australia’s  Village Roadshow Ltd. (VRL)  is co-producer of
the film with Warner Bros.  “Despite tepid reviews, the opening weekend came in better
than most had predicted,” Sweeney said. “Good word of mouth”
pushed estimates of the opening-weekend receipts from initial
forecasts of $30 million several weeks ago, he added.  The weekend’s other new wide release, “Peeples,” was
fourth with sales of $4.6 million. The comedy, produced by Tyler Perry and directed by Tina Gordon Chism, follows a young man’s
attempt to fit in with his girlfriend’s upper-crust family.
Craig Robinson, of the television comedy “The Office,” stars
as the young woman’s suitor.  Completing the top five were the action film “Pain &
Gain,” which was third with $5 million, and the Jackie Robinson
biography “42,” which finished fifth with $4.6 million.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 6.3 percent to
$152.1 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Sales and attendance are down 12 percent year to date.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for May
10 to May 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in  New York  at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net :  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  