-- Alibaba M&A Fuels Gains as Sohu Jumps: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-05-12T16:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/alibaba-m-a-fuels-gains-as-sohu-jumps-china-overnight.html
Chinese Internet stocks are rallying
in New York, led by Ctrip.com International Ltd. and  Sohu (SOHU) .com
Inc., as acquisitions and investments in the industry boost
shares of potential targets.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. jumped 4 percent last week, the most
since January. Ctrip, China’s biggest web travel agency, soared
the most since 2009 after better-than-estimated earnings spurred
analyst upgrades. Internet retailer E-Commerce China Dangdang
Inc. surged 19 percent, while web portal Sohu and search-engine
operator Qihoo 360 Technology Co. rounded out the gauge’s top
four best weekly performances.  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., China’s biggest e-commerce
company, fueled web stock gains after agreeing May 10 to buy a
stake in digital map provider  AutoNavi Holdings Ltd. (AMAP)  less than
two weeks after buying into Shanghai-based Sina Corp.’s Twitter-like Weibo service.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , which runs the nation’s most-used search engine, bought PPS Net TV’s Internet video business
last week, and Sogou, a search tool owned by Beijing-based Sohu,
may be seeking a strategic partnership, according to 86Research
Ltd.  “Internet services and applications are a land up for
grabs in China,” Michael Ding, lead manager of the  China Region
Fund (USCOX)  at U.S. Global Investors Inc., said by e-mail May 10 from
 San Antonio ,  Texas . “We are seeing consolidations and top
players are becoming stronger. The sector is one of those that
has quality earnings and sales growth.”  M&A Announcements  The China-US gauge has climbed 3.3 percent this month,
after losing 6.2 percent in the four months through April.
Government data last week showed new lending at Chinese banks
was 5 percent higher than economists surveyed by Bloomberg while
money supply growth quickened. Chinese exports grew a higher-than-projected 14.7 percent last month and inflation held below
the government’s 3.5 percent target, reports last week showed.  Nineteen mergers and acquisitions have been announced this
year among U.S.-traded Chinese companies with a total value of
$3.1 billion, compared with 23 deals worth $1.9 billion a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Internet
content companies were the targets with the most value among
five sectors, the data showed.  AutoNavi’s American depositary receipts surged 42 percent
in a nine-day rally before the partnership with Alibaba was
announced. The ADRs fell 9.9 percent May 10 to $13.31 in  New
York , retreating from the highest level since September 2011.  E-commerce Development  The Beijing-based company said Alibaba will invest $294
million for a 28 percent stake and the two will join forces to
explore location-based e-commerce opportunities. AutoNavi
reported first-quarter sales declined 3.9 percent and net income
slid 36 percent from a year earlier, both missing analysts’
average estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Second-quarter sales
forecast also trailed the mean projection.  AutoNavi’s slump after the announcements may have been
caused by investors’ expectations that Alibaba would buy the
whole company, according to Ming Zhao, founder of 86Research,
which focuses on China’s Internet companies.  “Investors are likely to take profit in the near term
given its strong run-up ahead of the announcements,” Andy Yeung, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York, said in a
note May 10.  Alibaba Offering  Alibaba, based in Hangzhou,  China , had profit that doubled
in the quarter ended in December to $642.2 million and sales
rose 80 percent to $1.84 billion, according a May 8 filing to
the Securities and Exchange Commission from Yahoo! Inc., which
owns about 24 percent stake in the e-commerce company.  Anticipation is growing for an Alibaba initial public
offering this year or next. The offer’s valuation may reach
$62.5 billion, according to the median of eight estimates by
investment banks and research firms since February, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Baidu, owner of China most-used search engine, prefers to
expand by acquisitions as it moves to revive advertising sales
growth and take advantage of a consumer shift to smartphones,
Chief Executive Officer Robin Li said on its first-quarter
earnings call April 26. Profit for the quarter increased 8.5
percent from a year earlier and sales rose 40 percent.  Baidu’s ADRs jumped 13 percent last week to $95.45, the
biggest rally since October 2011.  Sogou Speculation  Sohu, a Beijing-based company providing online news, games,
video and search services, surged 17 percent last week to a
three-month high of $60.70, the steepest rally since 2011.  More acquisition deals should be expected in China’s
Internet sector this year, and Sohu’s stock rose on speculation
that its Sogou search engine could be taken over, 86Research
wrote in a note May 9.  Sina climbed 5.2 percent for the week to $59.14, the
highest level since October.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  raised  the stock rating to buy
from neutral May 10, saying the aligned interests of Alibaba and
Sina will help accelerate Weibo’s income in the next three
years. HSBC Holdings Plc. also upgraded Sina May 8 to
overweight, an equivalent to buy, from underweight.  Ctrip (CTRP) , the biggest online travel agency, surged 30 percent
last week, the most since March 2009, to $29.38 in New York. The
Shanghai-based company reported better-than-estimated revenue
and net income for January-March on May 9, and forecast sales
growth of as much as 20 percent for the second quarter.  Analysts at Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Corp. and CLSA
Ltd. raised their recommendations to buy on the results.  Qihoo, owner of China’s most-used web browser and of the
second-largest search engine, soared 17 percent last week to
$40.22, the highest price since its U.S. listing March 2011.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., climbed 1.9 percent last week
to $38.42 May 10 in its fifth weekly gain. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index advanced 1.2 percent to a record high of 1,633.70.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  was up 1.9 percent last week
to 2,246.83. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in  Hong Kong 
gained 4.6 percent during the week to 11,347.41, the most since
the five days ended Jan. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  