-- Ferrari’s Alonso Says F-1 Race Win May Help Lift Spanish Morale
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-05-12T23:56:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/alonso-wins-formula-one-s-spanish-grand-prix-in-ferrari-car.html
Fernando Alonso  said he hoped he
lifted the morale of his fellow Spaniards suffering from a six-year economic slump by winning his home Formula One race.  Alonso beat  Kimi Raikkonen  of Lotus by 9.3 seconds at the
Circuit de Catalunya near Barcelona yesterday. Alonso’s teammate
 Felipe Massa  finished third and Red Bull’s defending world
champion Sebastian Vettel was fourth.  Alonso, a two-time series winner, waved the Spanish flag
from his cockpit on a victory lap in front of a crowd of about
95,000 and while standing atop the podium he thanked fans for
coming to support him. Ferrari sponsor  Banco Santander SA (SAN) 
chairman Emilio Botin was among spectators watching below.  “I suppose some of you had to make an extra financial
effort because of how things are,” Alonso, 31, said. “I hope
you can at least enjoy watching television on Sundays,” when
Formula One is on, he added.  Spain’s unemployment rate reached a record 27 percent in
April. With the cheapest entry for yesterday’s race at about 120
euros ($156), more than 75 percent of people who bought tickets
were foreigners, circuit director Salvador Servia told news
agency  Deutsche Presse-Agentur  two days ago.  It was the second win in five races this season for Alonso,
who’s seeking his first title since back-to-back successes with
the Renault team in 2005 and 2006. He has 32 career wins in his
12-year Formula One career.  Alonso, who is from the northern Spanish region of
Asturias, rose one place to third in the championship standings.
Vettel’s lead over Raikkonen was cut to four points from 10. The
next event on the 19-race calendar is May 26 in Monaco.  Started Fifth  Alonso started yesterday’s 66-lap race in fifth place and
moved past Raikkonen and  Lewis Hamilton  of Mercedes on the first
lap. He overtook Vettel on lap 11 to take second place and
darted past Mercedes’ pole position-sitter  Nico Rosberg  on lap
13 to take the lead for the first time.  Alonso built a four-second lead over Vettel after 20 laps,
with television pictures showing both of the left front  Pirelli
& C. SpA (PC)  tires on their cars scuffed up after having been run on
for barely 10 laps.  Raikkonen took the lead for three laps after lap 36, when
Alonso made one of four stops for fresh rubber.  Pirelli motor sport director Paul Hembery said in a
statement that that degree of tire degradation was because of
the racetrack’s “unique” characteristics and shouldn’t happen
to that extent again this season.  “Our aim to have between two and three stops at every
race, so it’s clear that four is too many,” Hembery said. “In
fact, it’s only happened once before, in  Turkey  during our first
year in the sport.”  Fans on Feet  Alonso moved back past Raikkonen, the 2007 champion from
 Finland  who stopped three times for fresh tires, and protected
his advantage for the rest of the race, bringing fans to their
feet on his final lap.  Many spectators were waving banners bearing Ferrari SpA’s
prancing horse logo rather than the Spanish national flag.
Others waved flags from the Asturias region that has a gold
cross on a blue background.  Alonso was given a flag from circuit staff wearing orange
overalls. It was his third race victory in  Spain : he won on the
same circuit for Renault in 2006 and was first at the European
Grand Prix in  Valencia , Spain, last year with Ferrari.  “It’s very special winning at home,” Alonso added. “It
doesn’t matter how many times you can do it, how many times you
repeat it, it’s always like starting from zero. You have again
very emotional last laps, very long last laps because you want
to finish obviously as soon as possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  