-- Amlak Said to Propose 15-Year Loan Extension, 30% Debt Cut
-- B y   S a m u e l   P o t t e r
-- 2013-05-12T11:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/amlak-said-to-propose-15-year-loan-extension-30-debt-reduction.html
Amlak Finance PJSC (AMLAK) , the Islamic
mortgage provider restructuring more than $2 billion of loans,
proposed to extend the maturity of the debt by 15 years and
reduce the amount by 30 percent, two people familiar with the
matter said.  The Dubai-based company part-owned by  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) 
will make earlier payments if  cash flow  allows, said the people,
asking not to be identified because the matter is private. The
current business plan of Amlak, which is estimated to owe about
10 billion dirhams ($2.7 billion), is to refocus  on mortgage
lending rather than developing properties, the people said.  The creditor committee, which is being advised by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, should respond to the company with
an indicative term sheet this month, one of the people said.
Emirates NBD PJSC is chairing the committee, which also includes
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC,  Abu Dhabi
Islamic Bank PJSC (ADIB) , Dubai’s Department of Finance and the
National Bonds Corp. KPMG LLP is advising Amlak.  Spokesmen for Amlak, ADIB, DIB, National Bonds,
PricewaterhouseCoopers, KPMG and the Dubai Media Office didn’t
immediately respond to requests for comment, while those for
Standard Chartered and Emirates NBD declined to comment.  Cutting Liabilities  Shares of Amlak and  Tamweel PJSC (TAMWEEL) , another Dubai-based
Islamic mortgage company, were suspended in November 2008 after
the global credit crisis blocked their access to borrowing.
Amlak reported a third-quarter loss of 40 million dirhams in
2011, the last time the lender disclosed financial results,
according to filings on the Dubai Financial Market. Tamweel was
taken over by  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC. (DIB)   Dubai’s property industry is recovering from a 65 percent
slump in  home prices  in the aftermath of the 2008 crash. The
average price of a mid-range villa in Dubai increased 44 percent
in the year to April to the highest since November 2008,
according to Cluttons LLC data on Bloomberg.  Amlak’s liabilities were reduced by 4 billion dirhams in
March 2012 after it sold land and reached agreements with some
creditors. A government committee restructuring the company
decided not to liquidate to protect the rights of shareholders,
United Arab Emirates’ Economy Minister Sultan Bin Saeed al-Mansouri said at the time.  In January, al-Mansouri said the restructuring may be
resolved in the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Potter in Dubai at 
 spotter33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  