-- Manchester Utd Gives Ferguson Winning Send-Off in Last Home Game
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-05-12T23:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/manchester-utd-gives-ferguson-winning-send-off-in-last-home-game.html
Rio Ferdinand scored a late winner as
 Alex Ferguson ’s  Manchester United  team beat Swansea 2-1 in his
last home game as manager. There were also victories for
Tottenham, Everton, Liverpool and Newcastle.  Ferguson, 71, is retiring after more than 26 years at
United during which he’s won 38 trophies, including this
season’s Premier League, the club’s record-extending 20th
English soccer title.  Javier Hernandez  put United ahead in the 39th minute at Old
Trafford yesterday before Michu’s volley tied it four minutes
after half time. The game appeared to be heading for a draw when
Ferdinand pounced on a loose ball from a corner kick to score
the decisive goal in the 87th minute.  “Thank you to Manchester United, not just the directors,
players, coaching staff, supporters, it’s all of you,” Ferguson
told the crowd before the team was presented with the trophy.
“It has been the most fantastic experience of my life.”  Ferguson used his address to call on the fans to give their
full support to his successor,  David Moyes .  “I would like to remind you this club stood by me in bad
times, the players and the staff,” he said. “Your job now is
to stand by the new manager.”  Ferguson later confirmed that England striker  Wayne Rooney 
had put in a transfer request which the club had rejected. He
told Sky Sports that Rooney, left out of the squad yesterday,
was not keen to play because he’d asked for a move.  The game also was a home farewell for  Paul Scholes , who
initially quit playing in 2011 before making a comeback.
Midfielder Scholes, 38, has made more than 700 appearances for
United over 19 years.  United’s final league match is at West Brom on May 19.  Tottenham Wins  Elsewhere, Tottenham moved back into the top four with a
2-1 win at 10-man Stoke City.  Spurs moved up one place to fourth, overtaking Arsenal,
which has played one game fewer and hosts relegation-threatened
Wigan tomorrow. Manchester United has 88 points, ahead of
Manchester City (75), Chelsea (72), Tottenham (69) and Arsenal
(67). The top four teams qualify for Europe’s elite  Champions
League , with the final round of games next weekend.  Steven Nzonzi gave Stoke a third-minute lead and Tottenham
hit back with goals by  Clint Dempsey , in the 20th minute, and
Emmanuel Adebayor, in the 83rd. Stoke’s  Charlie Adam  was red-carded just after half-time.  Everton beat West Ham 2-0 in Moyes’s last home game before
he succeeds Ferguson, while  Daniel Sturridge  scored a hat trick
in Liverpool’s 3-1 victory at Fulham. Norwich routed West Brom
4-0, Newcastle won 2-1 at Queens Park Rangers, and Sunderland
drew 1-1 with Southampton.  Already relegated QPR is in last place with 25 points.
Reading, also demoted, has 28, Wigan 35 and Sunderland 39. Aston
Villa, Fulham and Southampton all have 40 points.  Wigan upset Manchester City 1-0 in the F.A. Cup final two
days ago, when Chelsea won 2-1 at Aston Villa in the league as
 Frank Lampard  scored twice for the Blues to overhaul Bobby
Tambling’s club record of 202. Lampard now has 203 goals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  