-- Latvia May Sell Bonds After Euro Nod, Finance Minister Says
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-05-13T08:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/latvia-may-sell-international-bonds-after-euro-nod-vilks-says.html
Latvia may sell bonds in euros or
other currencies in the second half of this year after the
country wins approval to adopt  Europe ’s common currency, Finance
Minister Andris Vilks said.  The government anticipates an invitation to join the euro
in late June or early July, which may spark credit-rating
upgrades, making the country’s debt more attractive to
investors, Vilks said in a May 11 interview in Istanbul during
the annual meeting of the European Bank of Reconstruction and
Development. The government doesn’t “need to hurry” as it has
a “large buffer,” he said.  Latvia has transformed its public finances after a
recession in 2008 and 2009 prompted a 7.5 billion-euro ($9.7
billion) bailout and widened the budget gap to as much as 9.8
percent of the economy. The country wants to become the 18th
member of the euro area and has satisfied conditions related to
debt,  budget deficit  and inflation, according to the government.  “Until now we had U.S. dollar bonds because there was a
very strong presence of U.S. investors but probably the time is
coming for the option of issuing bonds in euros as well,” Vilks
said. “We are going to put more media attention for European
investors, also keeping interest in the U.S., but the euro could
be quite attractive because rates are plunging.”  Swiss Franc  The Baltic country may sell as much as 1 billion euros of
bonds in the third quarter, Mohammed Kazmi, an emerging-markets
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, wrote in an
April 17 report. The bonds may be issued for 10 years and the
country is considering sales in Swiss francs or a Nordic
currency, according to Kazmi.  The yield on  Latvia ’s euro bonds maturing in 2018 fell to
1.673 percent at 10:55 a.m. in Riga from 1.677 percent May 10,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on the
country’s dollar notes due 2020 rose to 2.769 percent from 2.746
percent.  Economic growth  will accelerate to 3 percent to 4 percent
in the second quarter as a pick-up in services, transportation
and bank lending help compensate for weaker manufacturing, the
minister said.  Gross domestic product grew a preliminary 3.1 percent from
a year earlier in the first quarter, the slowest pace in more
than two years as manufacturing contracted. The pace of
expansion slowed from 5.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 2012
and was less than the 3.7 percent median estimate of seven
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  First-half growth should be between 3 percent and 3.5
percent and the government expects expansion to exceed  4
percent in the second half of the year, Vilks said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  