-- Australian Treasurer Says Strong Dollar Delays Return to Surplus
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-05-12T14:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/australian-treasurer-says-strong-dollar-delays-return-to-surplus.html
The strong Australian dollar gave an
“unprecedented whack” to  tax revenue  the government needed to
return the nation’s budget to surplus, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  Spending on disability payments and a program to improve
schools are the “big-ticket items” in the budget to be
announced on May 14 for the year through June 2014, Swan said
yesterday in his weekly economic note.  “Our economy has outperformed the developed world over the
past five years,” he said. “But it’s true too that this
strength has also resulted in a sustained high dollar, bringing
with it a set of new challenges, and contributing to an
unpredictable and unprecedented whack to our revenue base.”  The local dollar’s resilience has slashed government
earnings, spurring Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  to drop plans to
boost help for low-paid families even as her Labor party trails
in polls before elections due in September. The party’s
credibility was damaged after the government in December
backtracked on returning the budget to surplus this fiscal year.  “The responsible course of action when faced with that is
to support jobs and growth,” Swan said yesterday in an
interview on Channel Nine. “I’ve taken the responsible course.
I’ll take my medicine. I accept the politics are very
uncomfortable.”  Labor fell a further 2 percentage points behind  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition and is trailing by 12 points
on a two-party preferred basis, according to a Newspoll
published in the Australian newspaper on May 7.  ‘Pathway to Surplus’  The spending plan will outline a “pathway back to
surplus,” Swan said.  Gillard’s government faces revenue writedowns of about A$17
billion ($17 billion) in this week’s budget, Swan said.  The government plans A$580 million of public service cuts
in the budget, with the reduction to occur over four years, the
Australian Broadcasting Corp. reported yesterday on its website.  The Australian budget will target multinational
corporations that funnel investments through the country to
eliminate their domestic tax liabilities, the Australian
Financial Review reported on May 11.  The government plans to close a loophole allowing companies
to load up their Australian operations with debt and claim large
 tax deductions , the newspaper said.  ‘Substantial Clampdown’  “There needs to be a very substantial clampdown on  tax
havens , on high-wealth individuals hiding their money in tax
havens and profit shifting, which occurs for many multinational
companies,” Swan said yesterday.  Australia will revise a tax treaty with Switzerland for the
first time since it was signed in 1980, helping to strengthen
ties between revenue authorities in the two countries and
overcome “bank secrecy provisions,” Assistant Treasurer David Bradbury said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  The Australian dollar dropped below parity with its U.S.
counterpart for the first time in more than 10 months on May 10,
three days after the nation’s central bank cut  interest rates  to
a record low.  The so-called Aussie’s stretch above parity, the longest
since exchange controls were scrapped in 1983, sparked calls for
policy action from union leaders and businesses including  Orica
Ltd. (ORI) , the world’s biggest producer of industrial explosives.  A decline in the Australian dollar is needed to help
manufacturers compete with cheaper imports, Orica Chief
Executive Officer  Ian Smith  said in an interview yesterday with
the Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s ‘Inside Business’ program.  ‘Hollowed Out’  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia should do “everything in
their power to get it down,” Smith said. “The overall state of
the economy is being hollowed out.”  Three of Australia’s four major lenders, including  National
Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , on May 7 passed on in full the central bank
interest-rate cut for the first time in 17 months, sending
benchmark home-loan costs to the lowest since 2009.  NAB, the country’s largest lender by assets, sees scope to
cut  mortgage rates  regardless of central bank decisions as the
country moves into “a more benign funding environment,” Chief
Executive Officer Cameron Clyne said in an interview broadcast
yesterday on  Channel Nine ’s Financial Review Sunday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  