-- Biohit Targets China as Key Market for Cancer-Prevention
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-05-13T15:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/biohit-targets-china-as-key-market-for-cancer-prevention-product.html
Biohit Oyj (BIOBV) , the Finnish health-care
company whose shares have gained 71 percent this year, sees
 China  as a promising market for the Acetium product to prevent
stomach cancer, Chief Executive Officer Semi Korpela said.  Biohit is working to register Acetium in China and already
has a distribution partner, Grand Pharmaceutical Co., Korpela
said in an interview at the company’s headquarters in Helsinki.
The capsule reduces the amount of the cancer-causing substance
acetaldehyde in people whose stomachs can’t process it.
Acetaldehyde is present in food such fruits and is also a
byproduct of consuming alcohol.  A genetic mutation common among east Asian people inhibits
their ability to process acetaldehyde, Korpela said.  Half the
world’s  stomach cancer cases occur in eastern  Asia , mainly in
China, according to the World Health Organization’s
International Agency for Research on Cancer. The potential
market for Acetium spans the 500 million people worldwide who
have low acid levels, according to the company’s estimates.  “China is very interesting to us, much more interesting
than western  Europe ,” Korpela said. “The prevalence of
gastrointestinal cancers in Asia is also because of the diet.
Soy sauce with high acetaldehyde levels adds to their
exposure.”  Biohit shares rose 0.3 percent to close at 6.83 euros in
Helsinki, valuing the company at 93 million euros ($121
million).  Early Stages  The company also sells Gastropanel, a test used to diagnose
infections with Helicobacter pylori, a bacterium that causes low
stomach acid levels and exposes patients to acetaldehyde. H.
pylori infection has been  linked  to stomach cancer.  “We’re in the early stages,” Korpela said. “Registration
of products has only been completed in the European Union,
representing only a fraction of all filings” for regulatory
approval.  Strands of the bacterium vary by region, he said. In some
areas in eastern  Turkey , more than 90 percent carry the bacteria
and the strand is more virulent, while in Scandinavia about 15
percent of people are affected by the organism in its less
potent form, according to Korpela.  The company’s first-quarter  net loss  widened to 1 million
euros, its fifth consecutive quarter of losses. Even so, sales
grew to 600,000 euros from 400,000 euros. Biohit said it would
become profitable next year.  “That sales growth came despite registrations not being
completed yet,” Korpela said. “Our direction is absolutely
clear and we’re doing the right things.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  