-- Bolshoi Runaway Osipova Hired by Royal Ballet’s Director
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-05-12T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/bolshoi-runaway-osipova-hired-by-royal-ballet-s-director.html
The  Royal Ballet ’s artistic director
Kevin O’Hare has started with a splash: He’s recruited a prima
ballerina who was previously the pride of Moscow’s  Bolshoi .  Osipova, 26, quit the Bolshoi in 2011 to dance with the
 Mikhailovsky Ballet  and the  American Ballet Theater . O’Hare --
who took over in July -- cast her as a guest in “Swan Lake.”
She asked to come on board, and starts next season as a Royal
Ballet principal.  “She’s hungry for new inspiration,” says O’Hare. “Every
dancer wants to have as broad a range of roles as possible.”  In big companies such as the Bolshoi -- with two-and-a-half
times as many dancers as the Royal Ballet -- “you get
pigeonholed into ’You’re this type of dancer,’” he explains.  The Bolshoi links don’t stop there: Later this year, the
Moscow company gets its own Royal Opera House  season  (July 29 -
Aug. 17). The tour follows a January acid attack on Bolshoi
Artistic Director Sergei Filin that may leave him blind. O’Hare
says he hopes Filin will accompany the Bolshoi to  London .  “It will be a real turning point for them, coming back
here and starting afresh,” says O’Hare. “It’s a big
institution, it’s got big strong roots, and it will always
survive.”  The Royal Ballet seems the antithesis of the Bolshoi: Any
tensions are hidden from view. O’Hare, 47, is diplomatic and
inclusive; as I leave his office, I see his predecessor Monica Mason doing paperwork next door.  New Choreography  Yet less than a year into the job, he’s already making a
mark. His recruit Osipova will inject a refreshing dose of
Russian virtuosity into the company. Meanwhile, O’Hare is
commissioning new choreography, including from dancers who are
near retirement and need new creative outlets.  O’Hare is himself a former principal dancer with Birmingham
Royal Ballet. He hung up his dancing shoes in 2000 to work with
the Royal Shakespeare Company. Four years later, he became the
Royal Ballet’s company manager, and never left.  These days, he dresses like an urban professional, in a
dark suit jacket and open-necked shirt. His corner office has
vertical windows and bare walls he hasn’t had time to decorate.
Lunch is a mid-afternoon sandwich swallowed in between meetings.  The new director has great ambitions for the Royal Ballet,
especially with the three choreographers he has working in-house: Wayne McGregor, Christopher Wheeldon and Liam Scarlett.
(The fact that they’re all British is a coincidence, he says.)  Creative Building  “We’re in an amazing position where we have a lot of
creative people around us,” says O’Hare, in between sandwich
bites. “What we need to do is build on that and not be shy.”  “We want to move on, move forward and create new work.”  Wheeldon’s 2011 “Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland” was
the company’s first commissioned full-length ballet in 17 years,
he says. O’Hare would like to see more such “classics for the
21st century,” and has asked Wheeldon to choreograph a second
full-length ballet based on Shakespeare’s “The Winter’s Tale.”  O’Hare is also striving to retain in-house stars who are
entering their forties. For the next season, he has asked Cuban
prodigy Carlos Acosta to rework (and star in) “Don Quixote.”
Danish-born principal Johan Kobborg has been commissioned to
choreograph a ballet for Verdi’s “Les Vepres Siciliennes.”  O’Hare reacts with amusement to the ballet-themed movie
“Black Swan,” which shows vicious rivalry between ballerinas
and self-harm. “What surprised me was that people were treating
it as if it was a documentary or something!” he laughs.  He is equally dismissive of doomsday forecasts about
classical ballet. “I can easily say I really don’t believe it.
Come here any night and see any program,” he says. “I really
feel it’s having a renaissance, if anything.”  Next year, the Royal Ballet will be touring at the Bolshoi.
Any apprehensions? “I’m not worried,” he says with a smile.
“We’re hardy Brits, we can cope with it!”  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own. This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food, Warwick Thompson on London theater, Hephzibah Anderson on books and  John
Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 