-- Bulgarians Vote as Two Main Parties Locked in Dead Heat
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-05-12T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/bulgarians-vote-as-two-main-parties-locked-in-dead-heat.html
Bulgarians began voting in an early
election that has the Balkan country’s two main parties, Gerb
and the Bulgarian Socialist Party, locked in a dead heat.  The polls opened at 7 a.m. Sofia time and are scheduled to
close at 7 p.m. The  Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe  and the Party of European Socialists have election
monitors stationed at polls following reports of vote buying
during presidential elections in October.  Bulgaria, the European Union’s poorest member, was thrown
into turmoil in February by anti-austerity protests that echoed
unrest across  Europe . The next Cabinet needs to boost growth and
continue budget cuts after  unemployment  rose to an eight-year
high and violent rallies against poverty, graft and high utility
bills led to the last government’s collapse.  “The elected parties will produce a very unstable
Parliament and government,” Kolyo Kolev, head of the Mediana
research institute in Sofia, said by phone. “These elections
will be dirty, full of fear, pressured voting and vote buying.”  Former Prime Minister Boyko Borissov’s Gerb party, which
lost control of the government on Feb. 20 amid the street
protests, garnered 24 percent in an April 23-May 1 survey of 993
people by Gallup BBSS. The Socialists had the backing of 23.6
percent, according to the survey, which has a margin of error of
3 percent, implying a virtual tie.  Gerb, which stands for Citizens for the European
Development of  Bulgaria , would probably win about 100 seats in
the 240-seat assembly, while the Socialists will take about 80
seats, Otilia Simkova, an analyst in Eurasia Group in  London ,
said in a report, based on the recent polling.  Coalition Building  Gerb’s most likely coalition partner would be the Bulgaria
for Citizens Movement of former EU Commissioner Meglena Kouneva,
should it win the required 4 percent to enter Parliament,
according to Simkova.  The Socialists, who have said former Finance Minister
Plamen Oresharski would lead the government if they prevail,
would probably forge a coalition with the ethnic Turk Movement
for Rights and Freedoms and Kouneva’s party, Simkova said. The
Movement representing ethnic Turks, would take 7.1 percent,
while Citizens for Bulgaria would get 4 percent, according to
Gallup.  “The coalition government that succeeds” the interim
Cabinet “after the election, whatever its political makeup, is
likely to preside over a change of policy emphasis, if not a
complete overhaul,” the Economist Intelligence Unit said in a
report on May 9. “It will probably give greater emphasis to
tackling unemployment and promoting economic growth, without
jeopardizing the country’s prized fiscal stability.”  Bulgarian Markets  The yield on Eurobonds maturing in July 2017 rose 4 basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.6752 percent at 5:17 p.m.
on May 10.  The cost of insuring the country’s debt with credit-default
swaps rose 1 percent to 93.99, after falling 8 percent on May 8,
the lowest intraday level since Jan. 8, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Sofix stock index fell 0.24 percent
on May 10 to close at 408.55, the biggest intraday decline since
April 17, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Borissov, a former bodyguard of Bulgaria’s last communist
dictator Todor Zhivkov and later of the former king and ex-Prime
Minister Simeon Saxe-Coburg-Gotha, took 39.7 percent when he won
elections in 2009.  Borissov’s support eroded as he was unable to turn around
the  living standards  for Bulgarians, who have lived under strict
fiscal and financial rules since 1997, when a crisis closed one-third of the country’s banks.  Flat Tax  Gerb has focused its campaign on keeping the flat 10
percent tax rate on personal and corporate income and freeing
the energy market to reduce utility prices.  The Socialists want to scrap the flat tax and resume the
construction of a 10 billion-euro ($13.1 billion) nuclear power
plant at Belene by  Russia ’s Rosatom Corp., which Borissov’s
administration canceled because of a lack of funds and
investors.  Borissov was named in a two-week-old wire-tapping scandal
involving tapes leaked to most Bulgarian media, including the
Capital and Presa newspapers.  The tapes were allegedly of a conversation between
Borissov, Sofia City Prosecutor Nikolai Kokinov and former
Agriculture Minister Miroslav Naidenov on interference with an
abuse-of-power probe against Naidenov. Kokinov resigned on April
27, a day after tape transcripts were published.  While none of the three have denied the authenticity of the
tapes, Borissov questioned the source, saying it was unlikely a
police officer, as reported by media, but rather  a member of
the Socialist Party.  Energy Protests  Public outrage over the state of the economy and spending
cuts spilled over into  energy policy  initiating prosecutor’s
investigations of CEZ AS, the biggest Czech utility, Austria’s
 EVN AG (EVN)  and Prague-based Energy-Pro, which control Bulgaria’s  Bulgaria’s energy regulator moved to cancel CEZ’s power
distribution license on Feb. 20, gave CEZ the option to fix the
suspected 21 violations and will rule on the license in June
after additional checks.  “The new government is unlikely to pursue nationalization,
as demanded by some protesters, but will focus on increasing
competition and improving the business environment to attract
investors,” the EIU said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net ;
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  