-- Bulgaria Vote Leaves Gerb Short of Majority, Results Show
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-05-13T13:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/bulgaria-s-former-ruling-party-wins-elections-exit-polls-show.html
Bulgaria ’s former ruling party, Gerb,
fell short of a parliamentary majority in early elections in the
European Union’s poorest country.  Gerb, led by former Prime Minister Boyko Borissov, took
30.7 percent of the vote, compared with 27.6 percent for the
Bulgarian Socialist Party, according to preliminary results
based on 99.3 percent of the ballots counted, the Central
Electoral Commission said on its  website  today.  Bulgaria was thrown into turmoil in February by anti-austerity protests that echoed unrest across  Europe . The next
Cabinet needs to build a coalition willing to boost growth and
continue budget cuts after unemployment rose to an eight-year
high and violent protests against poverty, graft and high
utility bills forced Borissov out of office on Feb. 20.  “A hung parliament seems most likely at this stage, and it
could result in set protests which originally forced this
election in February,” Timothy Ash, chief emerging-markets
economist at  Standard Bank (SBK)  Group Ltd. in  London , said in an e-mailed note yesterday, before results were released.  The yield on Eurobonds maturing in July 2017 rose four
basis points to 1.7143 percent at 4:12 p.m. in Sofia today.  The cost of insuring the country’s debt with credit-default
swaps rose 3.88 percent to 97.29, after falling 8 percent on May
8, the lowest intraday level since Jan. 8, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Sofix stock index fell 0.2 percent to
407.69.  Seat Distribution  Gerb, which stands for Citizens for the European
Development of Bulgaria, would get about 97 seats in the 240-seat Parliament, with about 85 seats going to the Socialists,
Alpha Research polling company said, which conducted exit polls
and estimated that Gerb would win 31.1 percent of the vote,
compared with 27.1 percent for the Socialists. Gerb controlled
117 seats in the previous Parliament, where the Socialists had
40 seats.  The Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which represents the
ethnic Turks in the Balkan country, won 10.45 percent, which is
close to the 11 percent with 34 seats estimated by Alpha
Research. The radical nationalist Attack party got 7.4 percent,
the Central Electoral Commission said, close to Alpha Research’s
estimate of 7.5 percent, or about 24 seats.  Coalition Talks  “We will start coalition talks after the final results are
announced and the mandate to form a Cabinet is handed to our
leader Boyko Borissov,” Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Gerb’s chairman and
former deputy prime minister, said on state television
yesterday. “We won’t be able to discuss cooperation with the
Socialists after all the aggression and animosity.”  He declined to name possible coalition partners. Borissov
was the only political leader who didn’t hold a press conference
after the election.  The Socialists and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms
said they are prepared to form a coalition Cabinet, while Attack
said that no government can be formed with the composition of
the new Parliament. The Movement ruled out a coalition with
Gerb.  “Gerb is in complete isolation, the results show the
beginning of a slow death for Gerb,” Socialist leader Sergei Stanishev said at a press conference broadcast by state
television earlier today. “We are beginning urgent talks with
the two parliamentary forces on the nature of the new government
and its program, which must lead Bulgaria out of the crisis.”  Socialists, MRF  The Socialists proposed the new Cabinet to be led by former
Finance Minister Plamen Oresharski, who said that the most
urgent measures are to boost budget revenue by curbing
contraband and speeding up reimbursement of value-added tax to
businesses.  “We must prevent the deepening of the political crisis in
Bulgaria,” Lyutfi Mestan, the leader of the Movement for Rights
and Freedoms, said at a separate press conference. “We must
find a quick formula for a stable government.”  Attack leader Volen Siderov said he will only support a
government that would “free Bulgaria of the colonial rule of
international monopolies.”  The  Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe  and
the Party of European Socialists are among the seven
international and 19 local organizations that stationed election
monitors at polling stations following reports of vote buying
during presidential elections in October. Voter turnout was 41.3
percent at 5:30 p.m. in the capital Sofia yesterday, the Central
Electoral Commission said.  Street Protest  About 50 protesters scuffled with the police in central
Sofia, outside the National Palace of Culture, where the press
conferences with the election winners were held. They were
protesting against Gerb’s re-election, burning torches and
carrying national flags.  “These elections were manipulated,”Socialist spokesman
Angel Naidenov said on state television. “There was widespread
vote buying.”  Bulgarian police found 350,000 ballots in excess of the
amount ordered by the government in the Multiprint printing
house in the town of Kostinbrod near Sofia, the Central Election
Commission said on its website yesterday. The extra ballots were
placed under police protection.  Bulgarian prosecutors are investigating 17 cases of alleged
vote buying, the Office of the Chief Prosecutor in Sofia said on
its website yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net ;
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  