-- Cameron Says Oil, Mineral Companies Need Improved Transparency
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-05-12T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/cameron-says-oil-mineral-companies-need-improved-transparency.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  set
his sights on oil, gas and mining companies in his drive for
greater corporate and government transparency ahead of the
summit of G-8 industrialized nations next month.  Cameron, who will chair the summit in  Northern Ireland  in
June, singled out the sector as he outlined his plans to forge
an international deal to tackle  tax evasion  and avoidance and
increase the openness of corporations.  “We must lift the veil of secrecy that too often lets
corrupt corporations and officials in some countries run rings
around the law,” Cameron wrote in an op-ed column for today’s
Wall St Journal. “The G-8 must move towards a global common
standard for resource-extracting companies to report all
payments to governments, and in turn for governments to report
those revenues. This will encourage more investment in resource-rich countries and level the playing field for business.”  Cameron will raise these issues with President  Barack Obama 
today in talks in Washington at the start of a three-day visit
to the U.S.  Business will need to take its share of responsibility for
openness and help ensure the mineral wealth of developing
countries is “a blessing rather than a curse,” Cameron wrote
in the column, which his office e-mailed to journalists.  “We need business to make the case for new openness about
who really owns and controls every company,” he said. “We must
all work harder to secure and fully implement the new standard
that will see oil, gas and mining companies reporting project by
project payments across the world without exception.”  The secrecy that allowed the diamond trade to finance
conflict in  Sierra Leone  and Liberia “shames” the world,
Cameron said.  “We must make sure openness delivers the benefits it
should for rich economies and  developing countries  alike,” he
said. “When countries open up to cross-border trade, and global
supply chains, they need to know that they will see the benefits
in jobs, fair tax revenues and economic growth. So we need
global rules that prevent tax evasion and aggressive avoidance,
and enable governments to collect the taxes they are owed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  