-- Cameron Ally Gove Is Latest Tory to Suggest U.K. Quits EU
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-05-12T15:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/cameron-ally-gove-becomes-latest-tory-to-urge-u-k-to-leave-eu.html
Britain’s Education Secretary Michael Gove, a key ally of Prime Minister  David Cameron , became the
latest Tory to urge the country to consider leaving the European
Union, saying the U.K. would benefit from an exit.  Cameron has pledged to hold a referendum on EU membership
by the end of 2017, promising to renegotiate the terms of
British engagement with the EU if he wins the 2015 election.
Tory lawmakers have still tabled an amendment which “expresses
regret” that last week’s Queen’s speech setting out next year’s
legislative session doesn’t include provision for the EU vote.
To support the amendment would be to rebel against Cameron.  “I’m not happy with our position in the European Union,
but my preference is for a change in Britain’s relationship with
the European Union,” Gove told the  BBC ’s “Andrew Marr Show”
today. “My ideal is exactly what the majority of the British
public’s ideal is, which is to recognize the current situation
is no good, to say that life outside would be perfectly
tolerable, we could contemplate it, there would be certain
advantages.”  By promising a referendum, Cameron had hoped to shelve the
issue of  Europe  until after 2015. On May 7, former Chancellor of
the Exchequer  Nigel Lawson  prompted fresh debate when he urged a
U.K. exit, a call echoed by Michael Portillo, a former defense
secretary.  Margaret Thatcher ’s biographer said May 8 that she
too had concluded Britain should leave. The Tories lost seats in
local elections on May 2 to the U.K. Independence Party, which
wants to pull out of the 27-nation bloc.  Tory Rebels  Justice Secretary Chris Grayling told the Sunday Times
newspaper today that he “is firmly on the Euroskeptic wing” of
the Tory party. About 100 Tory lawmakers may vote against the
government on the amendment in Parliament this week, the Sunday
Telegraph said.  Gove said he would abstain on the vote, saying that Tories
should support Cameron’s negotiating position.  “I believe that while we absolutely need to have a
referendum at some point in the future, it’s not appropriate at
this stage, and also, in a way, it’s an exercise in letting off
steam, because we can’t have a referendum bill because we’re in
coalition,” he said. “One of the things that I think is often
under-remarked is that coalition policies, as we’ve just been
discussing, changes the way that things are seen.”  The Sun on Sunday newspaper reported that UKIP could win up
to eight Parliamentary districts in 2015 based on its current
level of popularity and data from the local elections analyzed
by pollsters Survation. The Mail on Sunday said the EU vote
might be brought forward by a year to allay Tory concerns.  May’s ‘Sympathy’  Home Secretary Theresa May was repeatedly asked today if
she supported Britain leaving the EU. She declined to answer
directly, saying she backs Cameron’s position and would abstain
on the rebel amendment this week.  “I’ve got every sympathy with people who say that they
want to ensure that we can give the assurance of the in-out
referendum taking place,” May, a Conservative, told  Sky News .
“Obviously I don’t think it’s right for ministers to
effectively vote against the policy program we’ve put forward in
the Queen’s speech.”  Another Tory, Defense Secretary Philip Hammond, dismissed
talk of a party split, telling the BBC’s “Sunday Politics”
that the Tories are “violently agreeing here.”  Labour Opposition  “We all believe that there needs to be a referendum on
Europe,” he said. “Now, some of our backbench colleagues think
that the best way to do that is to bring forward a bill in this
parliament that would be almost certain to be defeated, because
it won’t be supported by the Liberal Democrats and it will be
opposed by the  Labour Party .”  The opposition Labour Party’s home affairs spokeswoman,
 Yvette Cooper , said the Tory position means uncertainty for
business as the U.K. emerges from recession.  “There is a kind of frenzy going on in the Tory party
about a vote this week,” Cooper told the “Andrew Marr” show.
“Utterly incomprehensible -- you could have government
ministers potentially voting against their own Queen’s speech.
You need cool, calm heads and statesmanlike behavior at a time
like this, and I don’t think that is what David Cameron is
showing.”  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  used his weekly e-mail to
his Liberal Democrat party to accuse his Tory coalition partners
of “endless navel-gazing” over the issue of Europe, The
Independent on Sunday newspaper reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at  kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  