-- Cheapest Stocks to Bonds in Five Months Lure Funds: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-13T04:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/cheapest-stocks-to-bonds-in-five-months-lure-funds-china-credit.html
The last time Chinese stocks were
this cheap  relative to  bonds, the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
rallied 18 percent within two months. The prospect of history
repeating itself is luring some fund managers back to equities.  The earnings yield for the  Shanghai  index was 3.46
percentage points higher than the average yield on top-rated 10-year corporate bonds on May 2, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The valuation gap was last that high on Dec. 13. The
 ChinaBond Corporate Bond index  fell in the week ended April 26
amid a probe into trading violations, ending a 25-week winning
streak that was the longest since at least October 2008.  Lombarda  China  Fund Management Co. is favoring equities
because a pickup in inflation may curb bond returns, said La Bo,
its Shanghai-based chief strategist. The central bank last week
said that it can’t be “blindly optimistic” on living costs,
after consumer prices accelerated more than forecast last month.
Everbright Pramerica Fund Management Co. said it may boost stock
allocations after the Shanghai Composite slid 7.7 percent from
this year’s high on Feb. 6.  “Equity assets are more attractive and the return could be
better” than corporate bonds, Tian Dawei, its chief strategist
in Shanghai, said in a May 7 e-mail interview. “We’ll consider
adding to equity assets,” he said. Everbright Pramerica, a
joint venture with Prudential Financial Inc. that manages $4.9
billion, had an 81 percent allocation for equities at the end of
the first quarter.  The rally in the Shanghai Composite faltered shortly after
it entered a  bull market  on Jan. 29 and the index has fallen 1
percent this year on concern government measures to cool housing
prices will curb earnings growth. First-quarter profit at 53
percent of the companies in the index missed estimates,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Local-currency debt has
delivered a 2.3 percent  return  in 2013, Chinabond data show.  Stock Valuations  The benchmark  stock index  is valued at 12.1 times reported
earnings, a 28 percent discount to the five-year average of
16.9, Bloomberg  data  show. Its average earnings yield is 8.3
percent, exceeding the 5.1 percent yield on the top-rated 10-year corporate bonds.  The ChinaBond Corporate Bond index dropped 0.1 in the week
ended April 28 amid the central bank’s probe into the $3.7
trillion interbank bond market. The People’s Bank of China asked
market participants to examine trading histories as it cracks
down on short-term transactions designed to bypass month-end
risk evaluations, two people with knowledge of the matter said
last month.  Bond Performance  One-year  government bonds  fell last week, with the  yield 
rising six basis points to 2.83 percent as of May 10, Chinabond
indexes show. The  yuan  has risen 0.2 percent this month to
6.1479 per dollar as of 11:50 a.m. in Shanghai, spurred by
capital inflows.  Chinese stocks may rebound 20 percent this year as economic
growth recovers and liquidity is loosened, Chen Li, Shanghai-based head of China equity strategy at UBS AG, said at a media
briefing on May 8. Property developers and consumer industries
such as autos and home appliances may benefit most, he said.  A gauge of 24 real-estate companies in the Shanghai index
offer an average  earnings yield  of 10.6 percent, the second-highest among the five industry groups, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. China Vanke Co. and Poly Real Estate Group Co.,
the nation’s two biggest developers, each have a yield of 9.9.  The yield on 10-year bonds with an AAA rating has slumped
to 5.10 percent this year from 5.29 percent at the end of 2012.
The spread over  government securities  narrowed to 168 basis
points from 171. Yuan corporate bond sales in the nation surged
38 percent this year to 1.57 trillion yuan ($256 billion).  Mixed Data  Recent economic reports are showing mixed signals.
 Manufacturing (CPMINDX)  slowed last month, while exports grew faster than
expected. Consumer prices rose a higher-than-estimated 2.4
percent in April, while producer prices dropped more than
forecast, the National Bureau of Statistics said on May 9. The
government has set goals of 3.5 percent inflation this year and
economic growth of 7.5 percent.  “The shape of the economy will be similar to slight
stagflation as inflation picks up and growth remains weak in the
following two quarters,” Lombarda China Fund’s La said in an e-mailed response to questions from  Bloomberg News  on May 6.
“Stocks are expected to deliver higher returns than bonds.”  Lombarda China, a venture with  Unione di Banche Italiane
SCPA (UBI) , allocated 30 percent of its $1.6 billion in assets in
fixed-income products at the end of the first quarter.  Slowing Growth  China’s expansion  slowed  to 7.7 percent in the first three
months of the year from 7.9 percent a quarter earlier, as
industrial output weakened and the government’s anti-corruption
drive took its toll on consumption. Net income for industrial
companies increased 5.3 percent in March from a year earlier,
down from a 17.2 percent pace in the first two months, the
National Bureau of Statistics said on April 27.  The nation’s top leaders Xi Jinping and  Li Keqiang , who
took office in March, are signaling increased tolerance of
slower growth as the nation reduces reliance on investment and
exports. Central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said on April 20
that the slowdown in the first quarter is “normal” as the
economy sacrifices growth to make structural reforms.  HSBC Jintrust Fund Management Co. and Golden Eagle Asset
Management Co. are favoring bonds over stocks on concern the
slowdown will deepen.  “Bonds are more attractive than stocks,” Liu Hui,
Shanghai-based  fund manager  at HSBC Jintrust, which manages $1.2
billion, said in an e-mail interview on May 7. “The economy is
at the bottom of the cycle and there are no signs of a
recovery.”  Bond Outperformance  The company, a venture between the asset management unit of
HSBC Holdings Plc and Shanxi Trust Corp., declined to say what
bonds it’s buying.  “Bonds will outperform stocks this year,” said Qiu Xinhong, a bond fund manager at Golden Eagle in Guangzhou. “The
economy doesn’t look good and inflation still remains
controlled. It’s possible that the central bank will cut
 interest rates  before the end of this year.”  Slowing growth has pushed up the cost of insuring the
country’s sovereign notes. Five-year credit-default swaps rose
four basis points this year to 70.5 basis points on May 9. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower
defaults.  Citic Securities Co. (600030) , China’s biggest listed brokerage,
last week recommended investors increase their stock holdings as
slowing growth prompts the government to accelerate
liberalization of the economy. In a State Council meeting
chaired by Premier Li on May 6, the government pledged measures
to eliminate some administrative approval processes and guide
private investment in local railways.  “For the time being, there isn’t a systemic risk facing
the economy though property policies can restrain the
expansion,” said Lombarda China’s La. “Stocks are expected to
return more than bonds if the opportunities in the market are
taken advantage of.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net ;
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  