-- Citigroup’s Corbat Says Spending Needed for Full Recovery
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   C h i t r a   S o m a y a j i
-- 2013-05-12T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/citigroup-s-corbat-says-spending-needed-for-full-recovery.html
Michael Corbat , hunting for revenue
seven months into his tenure as chief executive officer of
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , said the improving U.S. housing market and
declining unemployment won’t ignite the nation’s economy unless
companies start spending.  “We continue to see corporations defer hiring, we continue
to see them deferring capital expenditure,” said Corbat, 53, in
his first television interview in Asia, with Bloomberg
Television’s  Susan Li  in  Hong Kong . “Until we really see the
other side -- that corporate side -- step in, I don’t think we
can look and say that we’ve really got a full U.S. recovery.”  Corbat and his fellow CEOs at other U.S. banks need
stronger economic growth to fuel revenue that’s being undermined
by a slump in trading and regulators’ efforts to rein in risks
in the wake of 2008’s credit-market turmoil. While the nation’s
six biggest lenders increased total first-quarter profit by 45
percent, their combined revenue fell, leaving most of them to
rely on a mix of tax benefits, staff reductions and cost cuts to
increase earnings.  “What we see in the U.S. economy is a consumer that is
slowly healing,” said Corbat, whose New York-based bank is the
country’s third-largest by assets, behind  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co.
and Bank of America Corp. “We’ve seen it in terms of  house
prices  starting to come back up but, interestingly, we haven’t
seen the follow-through on the corporate side.”  Housing Recovery  Median prices for single-family homes rose in the first
quarter from a year earlier in 89 percent of 150 metropolitan
areas, as the U.S. housing market extended its recovery from a
five-year slump, the National Association of Realtors said in a
report May 9. The rebound has helped improve sentiment, with the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index at minus 29.5 in the week ended
May 5, close to the highest level in more than five years.  While corporations have resumed hiring, they’re still
showing restraint. When the  U.S. economy  slumped during the
latest recession, business investment in equipment and software
plunged even more, causing its share of gross domestic product
to shrink to 6.4 percent by mid-2009, almost a four-decade low.
At 7.5 percent in this year’s first quarter, the share is still
below both its pre-recession level and the record 9.6 percent
reached in mid-2000.  President  Barack Obama , in an annual economic message to
Congress in March, said  job creation  is the “top priority” of
his second term. In announcing a $3.8 trillion budget proposal
last month, he called for $50 billion in infrastructure spending
and the development of high-tech “manufacturing hubs” to spur
private investment and employment.  Job Cuts  Corbat, who previously led a unit that disposed of
Citigroup’s unwanted assets, replaced  Vikram Pandit , 56, as CEO
in October after Pandit navigated the bank through a near
collapse and repaid a $45 billion U.S. bailout. Since taking the
 helm , Corbat has announced plans to cut 11,000 workers and pull
back from markets such as Turkey, Pakistan and Uruguay.  Citigroup was alone among the largest U.S. banks this year
in seeing its shares rise in the daily trading session after
reporting first-quarter results. Excluding accounting
adjustments, the bank’s revenue rose 3 percent, helped by hedges
and earnings from advising companies on deals. The stock has
climbed 33 percent since Corbat took over, compared with a 13
percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  “We looked at some things that we needed to do in terms of
right-sizing our company,” Corbat said. “Those were very
difficult decisions to make.”  Citi Holdings  Corbat has worked at Citigroup and its predecessors since
graduating in 1983 from  Harvard University  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , where he earned a bachelor’s degree in economics
and played football as an all-conference offensive guard. He
started at Salomon Brothers Inc., which became part of Citigroup
under  Sandy Weill  in the 1990s, and learned about the company’s
operations while moving among its divisions. Pandit, in
contrast, joined Citigroup as a hedge-fund manager after an
earlier career at Morgan Stanley.  Corbat became head of  emerging markets  in Citigroup’s
fixed-income unit, and took over corporate lending in 2004. Four
years later, he was assigned to run the wealth-management
division, which included serving ultra-high-net-worth clients.  Pandit assigned him in April 2009 to divest $573 billion of
assets as permanent head of the Citi Holdings unit, which held
unwanted businesses. They included private-equity stakes, auto
loans, a life insurer, a student-loan firm, a fund-of-hedge-funds business as well as mortgages and corporate bonds.  Embracing ‘Dull’  By the end of 2011, when Corbat was transferred to become
the bank’s European regional chief, the assets in Citi Holdings
had been cut 61 percent to $225 billion. When overseeing
businesses, he said he prefers a methodical, multistep process -
- a management approach Fortune magazine called “a little
dull” in an article this month.  “I like to study the question or the problem or the
opportunity in hand, work with the team to come with the right
answer, make a decision and act upon it,” Corbat said in the
Bloomberg interview. “Some people have said that, actually,
today they pretty much like their bankers dull.”  Companies in the U.S. have added 6.15 million workers to
payrolls since February 2010, when employment reached a decade
low in the aftermath of the worst recession since the  Great
Depression. (INDU)  That leaves the level 2.58 million workers short of
the peak reached in January 2008, according to figures from the
Labor Department.  ‘Slow, Stingy’  “It’s been slow, it’s been stingy,” Corbat said of job
creation in the U.S. “But it’s started. So I think we’re seeing
signs, but we’ve got more to do.”  Corbat spoke in Hong Kong after concluding a day-and-a-half
of management committee meetings in the city.  Citigroup, which began operations in the Asia-Pacific
region in 1902, will devote a “meaningful” share of resources
to expanding there, he said, without providing specific numbers.
About a third of the 150 cities identified by the bank as
important markets are in that region, he said. The firm is
focused on  consumer banking  and providing services to corporate
clients in those countries, he said.  Revenue from Asia at Citicorp, the division that contains
trading and investment banking, climbed 1 percent from a year
earlier to about $4 billion, accounting for about 20 percent of
the company’s total sales. The unit’s profit from Asia was $1.1
billion, 29 percent of Citigroup’s  net income , according to a
 financial supplement .  Wealthy Urbanites  In consumer banking -- where first-quarter revenue from the
region fell 2 percent and profit dropped 17 percent -- Citigroup
will focus on the “mass affluent” in cities, rather than
jockey with domestic lenders in the countryside.  “You’re not going to see us competing in any country
really in the hillsides against the domestic banks,” Corbat
said. “We’re going to be urban-based.”  In its work with corporate clients, Citigroup is tapping
into demand for services from “Asian champions” that are
looking to expand manufacturing, shipping or energy operations
abroad, he said.  “It’s not only a destination for our clients from
elsewhere around the world,” Corbat said. “Asia is in the
process of exporting a number of great companies around the
world that we’re happy to be leading out of Asia.”  Citigroup  directors  ousted Pandit after concluding that he
mishandled key operations, causing setbacks with regulators and
costing credibility with investors, a person familiar with the
matter said at the time. Pandit had helped the company navigate
the financial crisis, when the firm took the U.S. bailout to
avoid collapse.  Pandit’s Legacy  Corbat already has avoided pitfalls that undermined Pandit.
In March, his bank outperformed JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. on key measures in the  Federal Reserve ’s annual stress test
of U.S. lenders in a hypothetical downturn. The Fed approved
Citigroup’s capital plan after rejecting Pandit’s proposals a
year earlier.  At Corbat’s first annual shareholder meeting last month, a
majority of investors also endorsed the firm’s compensation
practices after objecting last year amid criticism that Pandit
would collect millions of dollars too easily.  “Vikram managed the company through an extremely difficult
time and made a series of very tough decisions that I think
positioned the company extremely well,” Corbat said of his
predecessor. “My goal, my ambition, my obligation is to make
sure that as a company we execute against that.”  Citigroup Chairman  Michael O’Neill , 66, led Pandit’s
ouster. He told shareholders last month that he’s “not
intrusive” with Corbat in managing Citigroup.  Jamie Dimon , CEO and chairman of New York-based JPMorgan,
faces a shareholder vote next week on whether he should
relinquish his dual role.  Having a separate chairman “really leaves me to focus on
the day-to-day running of the company,” Corbat said, declining
to comment on competitors. “For us, it works very well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji in Hong Kong at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  