-- Coking Coal Contracts Seen Slipping to Record Low, Survey Shows
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-05-12T21:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/coking-coal-contracts-seen-slipping-to-record-low-survey-shows.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest exporter of steelmaking coal, may face a drop in
contract prices to a record low in the third quarter amid rising
supply and weaker Asian demand.  Asian buyers will probably pay $165 a metric ton for hard
coking coal in the three-month period starting July 1, according
to the median estimate of five analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg
News . That would match the record low for contracts set in the
first quarter and compare with $172 a ton in the second quarter.
 Spot prices  have slid 11 percent since March, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Rising supply from Mongolia and South Africa has added to
an increase from  Australia , which is rebounding from January
floods that shut rail lines and curbed exports. A slowing
Chinese economy is also causing weakness in the price, Shuma Uchino, the chief financial officer of  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  said in
 Tokyo  on May 8. The Japanese company is a partner in the world’s
biggest exporter, the BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance.  “There’s too much supply,” said Daniel Hynes, the Sydney-based head of commodity strategy at  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  who
predicts contracts may be settled at $180 a ton. “There’s a
recovery from the Australian market, which is compounding weak
demand from  China  and  Japan , the biggest importer of premium
hard coking coal. That has meant that the market has remained
relatively weak.”  Supply Increase  Fiona Hadley, a spokeswoman for BHP in  Melbourne , declined
to comment on contract negotiations.  Hard coking coal closed at $152 a ton on May 1, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg from Energy Publishing Inc. The
forecasts for the third quarter ranged from $155 to $180 a ton
in the Bloomberg survey from May 6 to May 9. Contract prices
averaged $210 a ton last year.  Australia’s total metallurgical coal exports  climbed  7.9
percent to 12.8 million tons in March, the highest since
December, according to data from the  Australian Bureau of
Statistics . Shipments increased for the first time in three
months, the figures show.  Increasing supply from Mongolia and  South Africa  has
weighed on prices, along with weaker demand for steel, National
Australia Bank Ltd. said in a May 6 research report. The bank
cut its forecast for third-quarter contracts by 11 percent to
$155 a ton, from $175 a ton.  Mongolian Output  Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi LLC, Mongolia’s largest state-owned
coal company, resumed shipments to China in late April after a
three-month standoff with its biggest customer, according to a
government statement on Prime Minister Norovyn Altankhuyag’s
comments in parliament on April 19.  The re-balancing of the seaborne metallurgical coal market
will be more gradual than previously anticipated, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said in a May 7 report. The bank cut its 2013
forecast 8 percent to $164 a ton and its third-quarter contract
estimate 11 percent to $165 a ton.  “A cautious China demand outlook continues to dictate
sentiment, although high levels of Chinese stockpiles are
weighing further on coal markets,”  Mark Pervan , the head of
commodity research at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ) , said in a note May 9. The bank forecast $155 a ton for
third-quarter contracts.  Metallurgical-coal suppliers traditionally held annual
talks with steelmakers to fix benchmark contracts for the 12
months from April 1, the start of the Japanese financial year.
They changed to quarterly negotiations in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  