-- Egypt T-Bill Yields Jump Most in Two Years on Budget Needs, S&P
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-05-12T14:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/egypt-t-bill-yields-jump-most-in-two-years-on-budget-needs-s-p.html
Egypt’s local-currency borrowing
costs surged the most in more than two years as the government
was forced to accept investor demands for higher yields to
finance its budget and after a Standard & Poor’s rating cut.  The Arab country raised the 5 billion Egyptian pounds ($719
million) it sought at a treasury-bill auction today, according
to Finance Ministry data. The average yield on  nine-month notes 
jumped 96 basis points, or 0.96 of a percentage point, to 14.7
percent compared with an auction two weeks ago. That on  three-month bills  increased 91 basis points to 13.93 percent, with
both yields gaining the most since February 2011.  Egypt is trying to finance a budget deficit that may widen
to 11.7 percent of economic output in the year that ends in
June, former Finance Minister El-Morsy Hegazi said last month.
The government’s inability to come up with a plan to manage its
financing needs prompted a cut by S&P last week to CCC+, the
second-lowest of any country the agency rates.  “The government is being forced to accept high yields
because it has to cover the deficit as the fiscal year draws to
a close next month,” Amr Seif, chief dealer at Piraeus Bank
 Egypt , said by phone. “Bidders for the debt realize they have
this leverage and are also preempting further interest rate
hikes because of rising inflation.”  Egypt’s central bank decided May 9 to keep benchmark
interest rates unchanged even after a government report showed
annual inflation accelerated to 8.1 percent in April from 7.6
percent a month earlier. The regulator had raised rates in March
for the first time in 16 months to combat rising prices.  Higher Yields  The government, seeking a $4.8 billion loan from the
International Monetary Fund, is looking to lower its deficit to
9.5 percent of gross domestic output next fiscal year. Talks of
more than two years with the fund have failed to result in an
agreement.  The yield on Egypt’s $1 billion of benchmark 5.75 percent
Eurobonds due in April 2020 advanced 10 basis points in two days
following S&P’s cut to 7.26 percent on May 10, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. The pound was unchanged at 6.9563
a dollar as of 3 p.m. in Cairo, having lost 11 percent since the
central bank started scaling back support for the currency in
December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  