-- Evogene Signals Possible U.S. Listing as Israel ‘Not Enough’
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-05-13T14:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/evogene-ceo-signals-possible-u-s-listing-as-israel-not-enough-.html
Evogene Ltd. (EVGN) , which uses plant
genomics to develop products for the agriculture and biofuel
industries, is weighing additional listings as the company seeks
to draw investors from abroad.  “We are currently in the Tel Aviv 100 Index but that’s not
enough,” Ofer Haviv, chief executive officer of the Rehovot,
Israel-based company, told Bloomberg in the sidelines of a Tel
Aviv conference today. “We’ve been considering different
funding options and we think it would be optimal for Evogene to
ultimately trade in a market where expertise of the agricultural
sector is high. Much of our market is in North America so that’s
a strong consideration for us.”  Evogene dropped 1 percent to 18.76 shekels at the close in
Tel Aviv, giving it a market value of 706 million shekels ($196
million). The company listed in Tel Aviv in June 2007 after
spinning off from Tel Aviv-based  Compugen Ltd. (CGEN)  and has a 0.30
percent weighting in the capitalization-weighted index of 100
stocks traded in Tel Aviv.  Israeli technology companies from Nes Ziona-based  Kamada
Ltd. (KMDA)  to Or Yehuda’s  Babylon Ltd. (BBYL)  have filed to offer shares in
the Nasdaq exchange this year as they seek to expand their
investors.  Evogene said first-quarter revenue rose to $4.6 million,
primarily because of research and licensing income generated
under various collaboration agreements with makers of
agricultural products such as Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer AG
and St. Louis, Missouri-based  Monsanto Company. (MON)  Monsanto is
Evogene’s  largest shareholder  with an 8.7 percent stake,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  