-- Ex-President, Ahmadinejad Aide Shake Up Iranian Election
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2013-05-12T06:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/ex-president-ahmadinejad-aide-shake-up-iranian-election.html
Iran ’s run up to the June
presidential election took a new turn as two potential front-runners joined the race to replace President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
minutes before registrations closed.  Former President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, one of the
founders of the Islamic republic, who has expressed sympathy
with the opposition movement that grew out of the disputed 2009
vote, signed up shortly before the deadline late yesterday.  So did Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, a close aide to
Ahmadinejad, who the president has promoted in his trips in
recent weeks. Ahmadinejad, who has fallen out of favor with
Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  and squabbled with other
top officials, is constitutionally unable to run this time.  The decisions by Rafsanjani and Mashaei to seek office will
change a campaign that analysts had previously said may mostly
consist of like-minded politicians loyal to Khamenei. With Iran
engaged in a standoff with the U.S. over its nuclear program and
the economy feeling the pain of economic sanctions, the Islamic
republic’s clerical rulers also aim to avoid a repeat of the
unrest that followed the presidential election four years ago.  Some 686 candidates have signed up for the June 14 race
during the five-day registration, Interior Minister Mostafa Mohammad-Najjar said on the ministry’s website. Ali Akbar Velayati, Khamenei’s foreign policy adviser, Tehran Mayor
Mohammad-Bagher Qalibaf and Iran’s top nuclear negotiator, Saeed Jalili are some of the senior officials who have registered for
the race.  The Guardian Council, half of whose members are clerics
nominated by Khamenei, will screen the candidates based on their
qualifications and loyalty to the Islamic Republic’s tenets,
usually reducing the field to less than 10. Iran’s  Interior
Ministry  has said it will announce the list of approved
candidates on May 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  