-- Filipinos Vote for Senate as Aquino Pushes Anti-Graft Moves
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-05-13T04:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/filipinos-vote-for-senate-as-aquino-pushes-anti-graft-campaign.html
President  Benigno Aquino  is seeking
to bolster his support in the Senate as Filipinos vote in
elections today, as he looks to expand an anti-corruption drive
in the second half of his term.  Voters formed long queues outside precinct offices to pick
half of the 24-seat Senate, members of the House of
Representatives and other local officials. One poll earlier this
month forecasted that candidates backed by Aquino will win nine
of the 12 Senate seats up for grabs.  Aquino, who has overseen an economic revival during the
first three years of his single six-year term, said in a May 8
interview he wants to reduce the number of people who travel
abroad to earn a living. Tightening his grip on the Senate will
also enable the 53-year-old leader to push for stronger anti-graft measures and changes in education.  “The president’s legislative agenda is unfinished,” said
Prospero de Vera, a political science professor at the
University of the  Philippines . “A friendly Senate would be
instrumental.”  Senators are elected nationally among the country’s
estimated 106 million people, while the  House of
Representatives , which has more than  280 members , is chosen from
candidates representing local districts. Bills must pass both
houses before Aquino signs them into law.  Liquor, Contraception  Since four of the 12 senators whose terms expire in 2016
ran with Aquino’s coalition when he took power, a victory for
nine more allies in this election would give him an effective
majority in the upper house. Even without that overt support
during his first three years in office, Aquino managed to secure
Senate backing on key bills such as raising liquor taxes and
providing free contraception.  Aquino, whose mother Corazon won 22 of the 24 Senate seats
for her administration after becoming president in 1986, has
appeared with his favored candidates on the campaign trail,
using his popularity to bolster their prospects. His approval
rating rose 4 percentage points to 72 percent in March, polling
body Pulse  Asia  Inc. said in an e-mailed statement April 8.  Senatorial candidate Grace Poe benefited from Aquino’s
endorsement, jumping to 10th or 11th spot from as low as 28th,
according to a poll by the Social Weather Stations survey
company that was released April 23. The survey of 1,800
registered voters was conducted April 13-15 and had a margin of
error of plus or minus 2 percent.  High Approval  A Social Weather Stations poll conducted May 2-3 among
2,400 registered voters showed Aquino’s allies winning three-quarters of the Senate seats up for grabs. The survey had a
margin of error of plus or minus 2 percent.  The president’s popularity has remained high through the
first half of his term, during which his predecessor  Gloria Arroyo  was arrested on graft charges and the country’s top judge
was impeached for illegally concealing his wealth. Aquino said
May 8 in the presidential compound in  Manila  that the bureaus of
customs, immigration and corrections will be on his radar after
the Senate election.  Since taking office in mid-2010, PNoy or Noynoy, as Aquino
is known in the Philippines, defied the Catholic Church with the
law providing free contraceptives, and resisted opposition from
the tobacco lobby in passing the so-called sin tax on cigarettes
and liquor.  Peace Deal  The economy expanded 6.6 percent last year, the fastest in
Asia after  China , and Aquino was rewarded this year for
narrowing a record budget deficit when  Fitch Ratings  and
 Standard & Poor’s  gave the Philippines investment-grade credit
scores. Stocks have surged in the wake of the upgrades, with the
 Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  up 25 percent this year. Markets
are closed today for the elections.  Aquino said he also plans to implement a peace agreement
with Muslim rebels that aims to end a 40-year insurgency in
Mindanao. The violence has blocked mining companies from tapping
deposits in the mineral-rich region.  The country’s economic expansion masks  unemployment  and
poverty levels that have remained almost unchanged from before
Aquino took office. The jobless rate rose to 7.1 percent as of
January, among the highest in the Asia-Pacific.  “In spite of all our successes, the fight is not yet
over,” Aquino said in a May 10 campaign rally in Manila. “The
challenge for us is to strengthen good governance.”  Former President  Joseph Estrada , who was ousted in 2001 for
corruption and is now an opposition leader, is running for mayor
in Manila.  Final results are expected 24 to 48 hours after the polls
close at 7 p.m., James Jimenez, the Commission on Elections
spokesman, said by phone.  Controlling the Senate “opens the opportunity to do great
reforms” for Aquino, said  Ramon Casiple ,  executive director  at
the Institute for Political and Electoral Reform. “No more
strings attached, no influence brought about by political
debt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  