-- Gates Backs Obama Administration’s Handling of Benghazi Attack
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-05-13T04:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/gates-backs-u-s-handling-of-benghazi-would-have-done-the-same.html
Former Defense SecretaryRobert Gates
backed the Obama administration’s handling of the 2012 attacks
on a U.S. diplomatic compound in Benghazi, saying that had he
headed the Pentagon at the time he wouldn’t have approved
sending a small force into  Libya  as some critics suggested.  Gates said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program yesterday
that sending a single aircraft or a small number of special
forces into Libya “without knowing what the threat is, without
having any intelligence, would have been very dangerous.”  The Sept. 11 attacks on the U.S. diplomatic compound in
Behghazi, Libya, killed four Americans, including U.S.
Ambassador Chris Stevens.  Republicans have said the Democratic Obama administration
manipulated the characterization of the day’s events, saying the
White House and State Department played down for political
reasons the link to terrorism and warnings from intelligence
agencies before the attacks.  Ambassador Thomas Pickering, co-chairman of the State
Department accountability review board on the Benghazi attacks,
said he and retired Admiral  Michael Mullen , former chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, concluded after their review that
“there was no way any military activity could have been put in
place to deal with that particular question.”  Speaking on NBC’s “Meet the Press” yesterday, Pickering
said the review focused on security issues, not on what
administration officials said about the attacks after they
occurred and what sparked them.  Clinton Issue  Asked on CNN’s “ State of the Union ” about why former
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  wasn’t questioned, Pickering
said the review concentrated on “where the decisions were
made” about security. Those decisions didn’t go up to Clinton’s
level, Pickering said.  Also speaking on CNN yesterday, Senator  Susan Collins , a
Maine Republican, said that while the allegations of a cover-up
about the terrorism link in the Benghazi attacks are “serious”
and merit further investigation, she doesn’t think the issue
rises to the level of possible impeachment of President  Barack
Obama . Other Republican lawmakers have suggested it could.  Gates said on the CBS program that he thought U.S.
involvement in Libya was a mistake, and he also believes it
would be a mistake to get involved in  Syria , where a civil war
has raged for more than two years.  “Caution, particularly in terms of arming these groups and
in terms of U.S. military involvement, is in order,” Gates
said. “Anybody who says ‘it’s going to be clean, it’s going to
be neat, you can establish safe zones,’ well, most wars aren’t
that way.”  Gates’ Tenure  Gates began serving as Defense secretary under Republican
President  George W. Bush  in November 2006 and continued in the
post under Obama. He left the job in June 2011.  Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican speaking on
ABC’s “This Week,” said he thinks the U.S. should increase
support for Syrian opposition forces by arming them and using
air power against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  “You can go in and give them a safe zone and you give them
the weapons they need and the help they need, and stop this
unconscionable slaughter,” McCain told ABC.  McCain’s comments follow reports that Assad is making gains
in his bid to stay in power in clashes with rebels that have
killed an estimated 70,000 people since March 2011, according to
United Nations estimates.  McCain said the assistance could be given without
committing ground troops to the conflict. “No American boots on
the ground,” he said.  Assad’s Advantage  Assad’s government maintains a military advantage and his
inner circle appears to be cohesive, Defense Intelligence Agency
Director Army Lieutenant General Michael Flynn said in testimony
to the Senate Armed Services Committee on April 18. No
opposition group has been able to unite the diverse factions
behind a strategy for replacing the regime, Flynn said.  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel told members of the Armed
Services Committee April 17 that U.S. military action supporting
Syrian opposition forces is an “option of last resort” that
could entangle the U.S. in a lengthy conflict.  Gates said on CBS that the U.S. had misjudged the uprisings
in the  Middle East  known as the Arab Spring.  “Syria, Libya, both artificial creations of colonial
powers putting together historically adversarial groups,
religions and sects -- for us to think we can influence or
determine the outcome of that, I think is a mistake.  ‘No History’  “There are no institutions in any country in the Middle
East, in any Arab country, that provide a basis for enduring
freedom or democracy,” Gates said. “There is no rule of law.
There are no civil institutions. And there is no history along
these lines.”  Asked if he thought the  Iraq war  begun by the  Bush
administration  was a mistake, Gates replied: “I think that what
we know, in terms of the fact that they did not have weapons of
mass destruction, will always taint the fact that we went to war
in  Iraq .”  Gates also said he worries about an increased risk of
escalation between North and South Korea stemming from the
inability of new leadership in the North’s communist regime to
recognize that the South Koreans are no longer willing to
tolerate aggression.  The changes in both countries create “an environment in
which the next provocation could result in an escalation and the
situation getting out of control.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  