-- Tiger Woods Wins Players Championship as Sergio Garcia Stumbles
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/tiger-woods-wins-players-championship-for-fourth-title-of-season.html
Tiger Woods won golf’s Players
Championship for his fourth title in seven U.S. PGA Tour starts
this season after former winner Sergio Garcia played the last
two holes in 6-over par.  Woods and Garcia were tied for the lead yesterday when the
Spaniard, who won golf’s richest tournament in 2008, hit two
balls into the water on the par-3 17th hole at TPC Sawgrass’s
Stadium Course in Ponte Vedra Beach,  Florida .  Woods closed with a 2-under-par 70 during the final round
to finish with a four-round total of 13-under 275, two shots
better than rookie David Lingmerth of  Sweden  and fellow
Americans Kevin Streelman and Jeff Maggert. Woods received $1.71
million for his 78th career PGA Tour win, which came in his
300th start. He also won his 100th and 200th career starts.  “I feel like I’m getting better as the year’s going on,
which is nice,” Woods, who was playing in his first event since
his fourth-place finish at last month’s Masters Tournament, said
in a news conference.  This is the earliest in Woods’s career that he’s had four
wins in a season. In both 2000 and 2001, Woods notched his
fourth win at the Memorial Tournament, which this year is
scheduled for May 30 through June 2.  Woods, 37, had one previous top-10 finish at TPC Sawgrass
since winning the Players Championship in 2001, placing eighth
in 2009. Woods yesterday lost a three-shot lead when he had a
double-bogey at the par-4 14th hole, while Garcia and Lingmerth
made birdies at the 13th hole in the group behind.  Woods Recovers  “I was in control of the tournament and got to 14 tee and
absolutely hit the worst shot I could possibly hit,” Woods
said. “But I kept telling myself that’s the only bad swing I’ve
made all day and there’s no reason I still can’t win.”  Woods regained the lead with a birdie at the par-5 16th
hole before Garcia matched him. Garcia then made a quadruple-bogey 7 at the island-green 17th, which was the site of his
playoff win over Paul Goydos at the 2008 tournament.  Garcia also hit his tee shot into the water at the 18th
hole, leading to a double-bogey. Garcia finished in a tie for
eighth place at 7-under par and his collapse came a day after a
third-round dispute with Woods, who was his playing partner.  Garcia accused Woods of causing a distraction when he was
about to hit a shot and later said in a Golf Channel interview
that “we don’t enjoy each other’s company.”  “You want to beat everybody in that field, and if he’s in
that field obviously you want to beat him,” Garcia said
yesterday during his post-round news conference. “It’s always
nice to have a chance at beating the No. 1 player in the world,
but unfortunately for me I wasn’t able to this week.”  Missed Chances  Lingmerth, 25, missed a birdie putt of about seven feet on
the 17th hole and then wasn’t able to make a 61-foot birdie putt
at the closing hole that would have forced a playoff. He bogeyed
the 18th hole to drop to 11-under for the tournament, with the
missed par putt costing him $316,667.  “I felt like I had a good couple of chances there towards
the end and just didn’t putt very well,” said Lingmerth, who
was playing in his  13th  PGA Tour event and set a record for the
best Players Championship finish by a rookie.  Maggert, who at 49 was seeking to become the oldest winner
in the tournament’s 40-year history, was tied for the lead
before making a double bogey at the 17th hole, where his tee
shot came up short. It was just the second time in his career
that Maggert hit a ball in the water at the 17th.  Woods parred the final two holes to join Jack Nicklaus,
Steve Elkington, Hal Sutton, Fred Couples and Davis Love III
with multiple titles at the Players Championship.  The PGA Tour now heads to Irving,  Texas , for the $6.7
million HP Byron Nelson Championship, scheduled for May 16-19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  