-- Is the Fed Afraid to Regulate the Big Banks?
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2013-05-12T22:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/is-the-fed-afraid-to-regulate-the-big-banks-.html
The skirmishing is almost over, the
main armies almost assembled. Ahead is a great battle over the
future of our financial system that could have more profound
consequences than the Dodd-Frank legislation of 2010.  The battleground is the hearts and minds -- and fears -- of
the seven people who make up the board of governors of the
 Federal Reserve System . The critical contest will be about bank
capital and how large financial institutions should fund
themselves. The fog of war has masked the terrain, so that even
well-informed bank lobbyists don’t realize they have wandered
into a potentially disadvantageous position.  It remains to be seen whether the Fed can make the most of
this real opportunity for reform. Too many governors still seem
encumbered by a flawed mental model of how megabanks work.  The headlines continue to focus on the international
agreement regarding  capital requirements  -- known as  Basel III  -
- and how it will be implemented in the U.S. There are
interesting questions here, including what the Fed will decide
regarding the so-called SIFI surcharge (the extra equity funding
required for systemically important financial institutions).  Basel Standards  For the most part, however, the Basel-related changes are
meaningless. The Basel deal is, at its core, about “risk-weighted capital,” and this is the wrong way to think about
banks’ balance sheets. As experts such as Tom Hoenig, the vice
chairman of the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation , and
 Morris Goldstein , a longtime  International Monetary Fund 
official (and my colleague at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics) argue, all that we really know about
risk weights is that, in every crisis, they are completely
wrong.  Management is free to use risk weights for internal
purposes (and good luck with that), but capital regulation needs
to be about the true ability to absorb losses relative to total
assets. Regulators should focus on this measure -- known as
leverage -- and its implications for what happens when a
financial company faces failure.  “We must end too big to fail” is the refrain now heard from
regulators and  big-bank  representatives (seriously, they say
this with a straight face). And the main mechanism that they
propose is the resolution powers granted to the FDIC under Title
II of the  Dodd-Frank Act .  The FDIC’s proposed approach calls for losses in any part
of a financial holding company to be absorbed by the holding
company. Absorption here is a polite term for wiping out the
equity and converting debt into equity.  Ideally, bank holding companies would be funded with a lot
more equity. But the Fed has already signaled that it will wimp
out on this issue -- with “we agreed to this in Basel” as a
smokescreen. Equity levels will remain too low to make a
difference.  The bank lobbyists are cheering. After all, big banks like
to borrow heavily, increasing the upside for executives but also
creating more downside for the rest of us.  But here is the rub. The FDIC’s approach to resolution only
remotely makes sense if there is enough “bail-in-able capital”
at the holding company. (I’m on the FDIC’s Systemic Resolution
Advisory Committee; my views are mine alone.)  According to reasonable independent estimates, some of our
largest financial holding companies have very little such bail-in capacity -- Moody’s Investors Service estimates that  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  has 5 percent. (This is Moody’s assessment of what
could be used to recapitalize the group, divided by total assets
of the group; avoid thinking about risk weights in this
context.)  ‘Loss-Absorbing’  The Fed now needs to rule on how much bail-in-able capital
there must be in this form. And it also needs to set rules about
who holds the relevant types of debt. “Loss-absorbing debt”
cannot be held by other leveraged institutions or by any
institution prone to a run -- such as a money-market fund. In
this case, a company-specific event can easily become systemic
panic.  If the Fed waits even six months, it will destroy any
chance of the FDIC establishing credibility for its Title II
resolution mechanism. People in the credit markets are already
highly skeptical that the FDIC will be able to implement this
effectively.  The big banks are preparing to complain that this bail-in-able capital is “expensive” and therefore should be set at a low
level. But the precise point is that creditors should lend to
holding companies only at a high rate of interest, reflecting
the downside protection given to, among others, creditors who
lend to the operating subsidiaries. The latter get a greater
degree of protection under the FDIC’s plan, with a big chunk of
that protection supposedly provided by creditors to the holding
company.  Remember the debts that can pile up at those subsidiaries,
particularly when risk management is weak. (For a relatively
small-scale and transparent illustration, see the case of
JPMorgan’s London Whale and the losses amassed by the bank’s
trader Bruno Iksil.) Crazy loans and losses in 2007-08 represent
the nightmare scenario on a grand scale, but not necessarily the
worst that could happen. Lenders to the holding company should
be very skeptical and deeply scared -- and charge accordingly.  Global megabanks are profoundly complex, and intentionally
so. Investors and regulators don’t know what risks are being
taken. Board members also are usually in the dark. Whether top
management understands what is happening is an open question:
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  is adamant that he had no
real knowledge of JPMorgan’s Whale positions, which eventually
had a notional value in the trillions of dollars.  Pricing Risk  Megabanks say they want to end “too big to fail.” This
statement will only be credible if investors see and price the
risk inherent in lending to holding companies. If you don’t see
a large spread between loans to the operating subsidiary and
loans to the holding company, then nothing has happened.  For this policy to work, the Fed has to require the price
of debt to megabank holding companies to increase. Everything
else is an illusion.  Some Fed board members (perhaps two of them) have shown
some appreciation for this point, at least in private
conversations. Others shy away from the reality of pricing risk
appropriately.  The Fed will draw serious political support if it moves to
increase bail-in-able capital into the range of 20 percent to 30
percent of total assets for large-bank holding companies (with
some colleagues, this is what I have proposed). The central bank
will draw great ire if it sides with the megabanks, again.  The Fed has to decide. Should it make Title II resolution
meaningful and allow a real chance of reducing the risks posed
by the biggest  financial institutions ? Or should it shy away
from a decisive victory?  On current form, the Fed seems likely to fail us, again.  ( Simon Johnson , a professor at the  MIT Sloan School of
Management  and a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics, is  co-author  of “White House Burning:
The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It Matters to
You.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  