-- To Stabilize Mali, Look to Somalia’s Lessons
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-12T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/to-stabilize-mali-look-to-somalia-s-lessons.html
The  United Nations Security Council 
has made a wise  decision  to create an ambitious African
stabilization mission for Mali.  To succeed, however, this mission will need to draw lessons
from the other side of the continent, where African peacekeepers
have had notable results pacifying Somalia. Their experience
suggests how an effective partnership between African nations
and external powers, such as the U.S. and European Union, can
create the space for promising political solutions.  Mali is like Somalia in that, in both places, Muslim
extremists took advantage of political turmoil to seize large
areas of the country. In each case, African countries agreed to
send soldiers to neutralize the threat -- a way around Western
reluctance to commit troops to far-off places, and a local
solution more likely to be acceptable to African populations.
Yet the forces largely floundered when left to their own
resources.  Deployed in 2007, the African Union Mission in  Somalia 
 began  to thrive four years later once it was provided logistical
support by the UN, technical advice by the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, management expertise by the EU, and funding from
countries including the U.S. and U.K.  The Security Council decision will convert the Mali-based
African mission, which apart from a contingent from  Chad  has
played no serious role in the French-led fighting there, into an
official UN peacekeeping force.  This will ensure that the Mali-based African troops will
get the training, financing and equipment as well as the
logistical and command-and-control support they have lacked. And
it will increase their number from  6,300  to 11,200. The idea is
for the blue helmets to finish pacifying northern Mali as the
French, who have driven the extremists from the cities and
towns, reduce their forces from 4,000 to a 1,000-strong backup
contingent.  That may be the easy part. Before it can have  genuine
stability , Mali will need a legitimate government, national
reconciliation and strong Malian security forces.  The country’s interim president, Dioncounda Traore, who
took power a year ago from coup leader Captain Amadou Sanogo in
a deal brokered by  Burkina Faso , lacks a mandate to accommodate
the demands of long-disenfranchised Malians in the rebellious
north. Thus, new elections are essential.  However, ensuring credible voting will be a challenge --
bigger than the one posed by the indirect presidential election
in Somalia last September, which led to the establishment of a
legitimate new government and the beginnings of a functioning
state. The 175,000 Malian  refugees  outside the country and the
282,000 within it who have been displaced by fighting must
somehow be enabled to vote. With surviving extremists hiding out
in the north, voters and polling places will have to be
safeguarded.  The election, like stability, is just a step. A new
government needs to get quickly to the next order of business in
 Mali  -- negotiating with northerners over matters such as
government services in their region, better integration into
security forces and autonomy for local authorities.  Western powers could sweeten these talks with even small
offers of aid, given the north’s sparse population ( 1.3
million ).  Programs  that provide mobile schooling and health care
for migratory communities would help, as would small-scale Niger
River irrigation projects. The UN will sponsor a meeting in
Brussels this week to encourage donors to commit to a range of
stabilization and development projects.  The sooner that Malians are able to police and secure
themselves, the better.  The experience  in Somalia has shown that
while African troops may be received better than non-Africans,
they are still seen as meddling foreigners. Resentments can lead
to precisely the kind of extremism that troops were deployed to
combat. There is a chance the peacekeepers’ gains in Somalia
will be reversed if they are not consolidated soon by effective
national security forces.  To mitigate that risk in Mali, the EU has begun a training
program for the army. The failure of a previous U.S. effort,
which ended up training coup leader Sanogo, only emphasizes the
importance of this effort. Divisions within the force are rife.
Discipline is poor. Reports of  human-rights abuses  are fairly
common.  If Somalia offers an opportunity to create a model for
turning around a failed state, Mali presents the chance to
improve on it.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  