-- Obama’s Budget Put the Onus on Ryan
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2013-05-12T14:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/obama-s-budget-put-the-onus-on-ryan.html
When it comes to deficit reduction,
President  Barack Obama  may have correctly taken the measure of
 Alan Simpson  and  Erskine Bowles  and U.S. corporate leaders;
that’s a reason why any deficit deal is more remote than ever.  Two and a half years ago, when the president refused to
embrace the recommendations of his own deficit-reduction panel,
he was criticized by the authors, Bowles, a former chief of
staff to President  Bill Clinton , and Simpson, a former
Republican senator from  Wyoming , as well as by business leaders.  The plan proposed a balance of  spending reductions  and tax
increases of about $4 trillion over almost a decade; that would
bring the long-term debt to a sustainable level, according to
proponents, who said the president was abdicating leadership.  Privately, Obama saw the proposal as a trap. If he embraced
it, Republicans would say, let’s focus on areas where we agree -
- spending, including entitlements cuts -- and return later to
raising  revenue . Then, he feared, Simpson, Bowles and those
worried executives would provide aid and comfort for that
position, handing a devastating defeat to Democrats.  In these recurring budget battles, Obama deserves his share
of blame. At the turn of the year, he was unwilling to hang
tough for an entitlements-revenue deal as  tax increases  loomed
for all Americans. He blinked and accepted a smaller tax
increase on the wealthy. The White House then miscalculated that
the mindless across-the-board spending cuts under sequestration
were so bad that an alternative would emerge.  Obama’s Budget  Yet, a month ago, Obama took a risk and proposed a budget
containing cuts to entitlements cherished by his party. House
Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, and
his cohorts were unmoved; they wouldn’t give an inch on new
revenue.  Simpson and Bowles gave Obama a pat on the back and largely
refrained from criticizing Ryan or House Speaker  John Boehner ,
while corporate leaders ducked.  Moreover, Simpson and Bowles have revised their plan and
moved to the right, proposing proportionately more spending cuts
and less in new revenue. Obama is playing ball, Ryan isn’t, and
the two deficit hawks, and their CEO supporters, are rewarding
the guy who is stiffing them.  Simpson and Bowles have been admirably persistent, open to
some modifications and correctly insistent on the need to curb
long-term  health-care costs . A spokesman offered this
explanation for their latest move to the right: Republicans now
control the House. Sorry, Republicans had just won a huge
victory, taking control of the House, and were on a high when
Bowles-Simpson was first offered in December 2010.  What’s really going on is that their fervent hope for a
deal rests on a naïve assumption that the able Ryan will strike
a responsible compromise, even though he has made clear that he
won’t.  The Republican position is that taxes went up as part of
the deal on the so-called fiscal cliff, and there will be no
more increases. In reality, all the tax cuts enacted under
President  George W. Bush  were slated to expire anyway, and
Republican congressional leaders, their backs against the wall,
had to accept some higher levies on the wealthy.  Moreover, that $600 billion, over a decade, is only a
little more than half of what Bowles-Simpson proposed. In
addition, the new revenue is dwarfed by spending cuts, which
have been more than twice as large.  Social Security  Obama, for all his earlier timidity, showed political guts
with his budget last month. He would lower cost-of-living
adjustments for most Social Security recipients, means-test
Medicare benefits for wealthier senior citizens and enact other
reforms to entitlements that would amount to about as much as
the deficit commission recommended.  This has infuriated the Democratic base, some of whom,
unreasonably, oppose any cuts to  Social Security  or Medicare.
Others warned that, whatever the merits, there was a political
risk to a unilateral gesture, which would be rejected by the
Republicans and rob the Democrats of a good issue.  So far, that’s proven to be the case.  Other Republican criticisms are equally dubious. The charge
that Obama doesn’t deal with long-term  health-care spending 
would be more credible if a stronger alternative were on the
table. Obama’s Medicare cutbacks, over 20 years, are larger than
Ryan’s. The sequestration cuts, now accepted by many
Republicans, as the White House notes, provide no permanent
entitlement changes. None.  There’s also sniping that the entitlement changes would be
phased in only gradually. Well, that’s the only way to make
entitlement changes politically viable. Consider the much-praised 1983 commission led by future Federal Reserve Chairman
 Alan Greenspan  that made Social Security more solvent with
spending cuts and higher taxes. It takes full effect in 2022,
almost 40 years after it was enacted.  Corporate executives say they’re pessimistic about any
long-term deficit changes and thus it’s better not to rock the
boat. Who’s abdicating now?  Senate Democrats, after legitimate criticism for failing to
pass a  budget  for years, did so this year. Now, it’s Ryan and
the House Republicans who refuse to go to a conference to try
reconcile differences.  In  Washington , there’s a propensity to find bipartisan
fault in most conflicts. Often, that is on the mark.  Now, however, if Simpson and Bowles and the CEOs who warned
about the dire need to get America’s fiscal house in order are
serious, they have a clear target: Paul Ryan.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Al Hunt  in Washington at   ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 