-- Manchester Utd. Beats Swansea in Ferguson’s Last Home Game
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-05-12T18:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/tottenham-wins-2-1-at-stoke-city-with-late-goal-by-adebayor.html
Rio Ferdinand scored a late winner as
 Alex Ferguson  saw his Manchester United team beat Swansea 2-1 in
his last home match as manager. Elsewhere there were wins for
Tottenham, Everton, Liverpool and Newcastle.  Ferguson, 71, is retiring after 26 years at United, during
which he’s won 38 trophies including this year’s Premier League,
its 20th English title.  Javier Hernandez  gave United the lead in the 39th minute,
Michu leveling the scores with a volley four minutes after
halftime. The game seemed to be heading for a draw when
Ferdinand got the decisive goal in the 87th minute.  Ferguson addressed the crowd after the game before the team
was presented with the league trophy.  “Thank you to  Manchester United , not just the directors,
players, coaching staff, supporters, it’s all of you. It has
been the most fantastic experience of my life,” he said.
Ferguson called on the fans to give their full support to his
successor,  David Moyes .  “I would like to remind you this club stood by me in bad
times, the players and the staff,” he said. “Your job now is
to stand by the new manager.”  Ferguson later confirmed that England striker  Wayne Rooney 
has asked for a transfer from the club. He told Sky Sports that
Rooney, left out of the squad today, “was not keen to play
because he has asked for a transfer.”  It was a farewell game today for  Paul Scholes , 38, who
initially quit playing in 2011 before making a comeback. He’s
made more than 700 appearances for United over 19 years.  United’s final league game is at West Brom on May 19.  Tottenham Wins  Elsewhere in the Premier League, Tottenham maintained its
push for a top-four finish with a 2-1 win at 10-man Stoke City.  Steven N’Zonzi gave Stoke a third-minute lead and Spurs hit
back with goals by  Clint Dempsey , in the 20th minute, and
Emmanuel Adebayor, in the 83rd. Stoke’s  Charlie Adam  was red-carded just after half-time.  Everton beat West Ham 2-0 in Moyes’s last home game before
he succeeds Ferguson. Liverpool had a 3-1 victory at Fulham,
Norwich routed West Brom 4-0, Newcastle won 2-1 at Queens Park
Rangers, and Sunderland drew 1-1 with Southampton.  Yesterday, Chelsea won 2-1 at Aston Villa.  Frank Lampard 
scored both goals for the Blues, to overhaul Bobby Tambling’s
club record of 202. Lampard now has 203.  Tottenham moved up a place to fourth, overtaking Arsenal
which plays Wigan in two days. United has 88 points, Manchester
City 75, Chelsea 72, Tottenham 69 and Arsenal 67. The top four
teams qualify for the Champions League, with the final round of
games next weekend.  Relegated Queens Park Rangers is bottom with 25 points.
Reading, also demoted, has 28, Wigan 35 and Sunderland 39.  Manchester City was upset 1-0 by Wigan in yesterday’s F.A.
Cup final.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  