-- How to Tell if College Presidents Are Overpaid
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V e d d e r
-- 2013-05-12T22:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/how-to-tell-if-college-presidents-are-overpaid.html
The Chronicle of Higher Education
 tells  us the median salary of public university presidents rose
4.7 percent in 2011-12 to more than $440,000 a year. This
increase vastly outpaced the rate of inflation, as well as the
earnings of the typical worker in the  U.S. economy . Perhaps,
most relevant for this community, it also surpassed the
compensation growth for university professors.  Moreover, the median statistic masks that several
presidents earned more than double that amount.  Pennsylvania
State University ’s  Graham Spanier , best known for presiding over
the worst athletic scandal in collegiate history, topped the
list, earning $2,906,721 in total compensation. (He was forced
to resign in November 2011 and was indicted in November 2012 on
charges related to the Jerry Sandusky sex-abuse scandal.)  Spanier’s package will get the attention. But the outrage
should be spread around. University presidents are becoming ever
more plutocratic even as the students find it harder and harder
to pay for their studies. University leaders claim institutional
poverty as they enrich themselves. A perennial leader of the
highest-paid list, Gordon Gee of  Ohio State University  (more
than $1.8 million last year), paid $532 for a shower curtain for
the presidential mansion.  Unclear Standards  There appears to be neither rhyme nor reason for vast
differences in presidential pay. David R. Hopkins, the president
of Wright State University -- an unremarkable commuter school
ranked rather poorly in major-magazine rankings -- makes far
more than the presidents of the much larger, and vastly more
prestigious,  University of California  at Berkeley, University of
 North Carolina  at  Chapel Hill , or the  University of Wisconsin .  The four-year graduation rate at Wright State is 18
percent, whereas at Berkeley it is 71 percent. The president of
my college (Ohio University), Roderick McDavis, has seen the
school’s US News & World Report ranking fall considerably in his
tenure of almost nine years. But he made more in 2011-12 than
Berkeley’s Robert J. Birgeneau, who stepped down in 2012 after
nine years as chancellor of the school ranked first in the US
News list of public universities.  My associate Daniel Garrett analyzed the relationship
between presidential compensation and academic performance for
145 schools, using the Forbes magazine rankings of best
colleges. (Full disclosure: My Center for College Affordability
and Productivity  compiles  those rankings for Forbes.) Adjusting
for enrollment differences, no statistically significant
relationship was observed between academic quality and
presidential pay.  I informally asked five college-educated friends: What
criteria should be used in determining college presidential-salary increases? I got five different answers. One said that
those most successful in fundraising should be rewarded the most
(the argument often used to justify Gordon Gee’s lavish pay and
perks). Another friend stressed the postgraduate performance of
students. A third’s answer was that it is all about reputation -
- if you improve in the  U.S. News  or Forbes rankings, you should
get a nice salary increase. Still another friend stressed
retention and graduation rates.  In short, there is no consensus. Among competitive free-enterprise companies, profits, share price and competitor chief-executive-officer pay are considered the metrics upon which
compensation decisions should be largely determined. But what is
the bottom line in higher education? Did the  University of
Virginia  have a good year in 2012? How would you know?  Lacking Comparisons  We know little about some  fundamental  questions. Are the
students at the  University of Colorado  learning more than those
at the University of  Kansas ? Are they learning more now than
five or 10 years ago? These and other schools are either
clueless as to the answer, or if somewhat knowledgeable, they
typically keep the findings a secret. Public comparison with
peer schools is considered bad form by the university presidents
I know. Trustees are usually part-time cheerleaders for the
institution, not hard-nosed representatives of the public
demanding accountability, efficiency and transparency.  University enrollments fell in the closing academic year
nationally for the first time in more than a decade. More and
more individuals are questioning the value of American higher
education as it now exists -- the benefits seem to be
stagnating, while the costs are rising.  Some new university leaders get this, and believe higher
education needs to be leaner, more adaptive to change and
include performance-based rewards for achievement. The best
example is  Mitch Daniels , the president of  Purdue University .
While still governor of  Indiana , Daniels chatted with me about
how to devise a presidential contract that tied compensation to
achievement of goals. The Purdue board adopted such a system,
cutting Daniels’s pay compared with his predecessor’s, yet
including provisions allowing the president to earn significant
performance bonuses. Daniels has already frozen tuition fees for
two years -- and also has frozen salaries for most
administrators.  Universities are nonprofit institutions that get special
privileges, such as government subsidies and tax exemptions,
based on the assumption that they are good stewards of the
public trust. Big corporations pay their leaders more, but those
institutions pay taxes that partially benefit universities. They
have a bottom line as well as stockholders and corporate boards
that often fire leaders who perform poorly.  University presidents aren’t corporate executives. If
higher education wishes to maintain its privileged position in
American society, it needs to contain its spending. A good place
to start is at the top.  (Richard Vedder directs the Center for College
Affordability and Productivity, teaches economics at Ohio
University, and is an adjunct scholar at the  American Enterprise
Institute . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Richard Vedder at  vedder@ohio.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  