-- Pakistan Stocks Rise to Record as Sharif Approaches Win
-- B y   F a s e e h   M a n g i
-- 2013-05-13T09:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/pakistan-stocks-seen-extending-record-rally-on-election-results.html
Pakistan’s  stocks  climbed the most in
two months to a record as unofficial election results showed a
party led by former Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif  winning the most
seats in parliament.  The benchmark KSE 100 Index gained 1.8 percent, the most
since March 12, to 20,272.28 as of 2:10 p.m. Karachi time,
taking its rally this year to 20 percent. Sharif’s Pakistan
Muslim League will probably lead a government that will support
the nation’s business community, said Farrukh Hussain, who
oversees about $110 million as chief investment officer at BMA
Asset Management Co.  Sharif, who served two terms as Pakistan’s prime minister
in the 1990s, will face the challenge of bolstering an economy
hampered by a power crisis and quelling a Taliban-led insurgency
that has killed 151 people leading up to the elections. The KSE
100 rallied 8.5 percent in February 1997 when Sharif won his
second term. The gauge could rise between 3 percent and 5
percent this week, and 15 percent by the end of the year, BMA
Asset’s Hussain said.  “With a Nawaz Sharif-led government, we can see a lot of
support for the economy,” Hussain said by phone from Karachi
yesterday. “Investors would feel much more comfortable with the
incoming government.” BMA Asset’s Pakistan Opportunities Fund
has beaten 98 percent of its peers this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Sharif’s party had won 127 seats in the lower house of
parliament, according to a tally by state-run Pakistan
Television. President Asif Ali Zardari’s  Pakistan Peoples Party ,
which headed the previous administration, took 31 seats, a third
of its previous total.  Slowing Growth  The results set the stage for the longer-term stability of
the country’s sovereign rating of B minus, Standard & Poor’s
Ratings Services said in a statement from  Singapore  today.
That’s six levels below investment grade.  Sharif, whose family owns steel and sugar mills, ended
state monopolies in shipping, airlines and telecommunications
when in office. Pakistan’s $210 billion economy grew an average
3.8 percent each year during Sharif’s terms as prime minister,
according to data on the  World Bank ’s website. Under Zardari’s
five-year administration,  growth  slowed to an average 3 percent,
less than half the annual pace of the previous five years.  The  KSE 100 Index (KSE100)  surged this year as higher commodity
prices and  consumer spending  boosted earnings of the gauge’s
companies by 43 percent in the past 12 months, the most among 17
Asian equity indexes, data compiled by Bloomberg showed as of
May 9. That profit growth lured $202 million of stock purchases
from overseas investors this year, the most since the same
period in 2010, the data show.  Attractive Valuations  The stock rally has driven the gauge to trade at 8 times
estimated earnings, the most  expensive  level in almost two
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The last time
the gauge traded at this level -- in June 2011 -- the measure
slumped more than 10 percent in two months. The current
valuation is still 44 percent below the MSCI Asia-Pacific
Index’s 14.2 multiple.  “Valuations are still attractive,” Muhammad Imran, who
oversees about $203 million as chief investment officer at ABL
Asset Management Co. in Karachi. “People will take this
election positively. Foreign inflows have been driving the
market and this will continue.”  Seven stocks advanced in the KSE 100 today for each one
that declines. MCB Bank Ltd., the country’s largest by market
value, gained 4.9 percent to 261.60 rupees, poised for the
highest close since May 2008.  Pakistan  State Oil Co. jumped 5
percent to 221.86 rupees.  Management Overhaul  Zardari’s party was the first elected administration in
Pakistan’s history to complete a five-year term and transfer
power through a vote. Sharif’s party has vowed to seek agreement
with rivals and the armed forces over curbing militancy that
killed 151 people in election-related violence.  His mandate would enable him to pursue an agenda topped by
fixing an energy crisis that sliced 2 percentage points off
economic growth in the last financial year and overhauling the
management of unprofitable state-owned companies.  Sharif will appoint professionals to run state-owned
companies, especially power firms loaded with debt, Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan, who led the Pakistan Muslim League in opposition
in the last parliament, said in an April 26 interview.
Unprofitable firms would ultimately be privatized, he said.  The election results will boost the KSE 100 by as much as 3
percent today, according to Mohammed Sohail, chief executive
officer at Topline Securities. Topline was the only brokerage
named to AllWorld Network’s  Pakistan Fast Growth 100  of the
nation’s fastest-expanding private companies.  Sharif “is considered not only business friendly but
considered as being able to resolve economic issues in a better
way than the previous government,” Sohail said by phone
yesterday from Karachi. “This is the perception investors have
and this is why a positive welcome is expected in the stock
market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  