-- Putin Oil Thirst Driving Eurasia Bonds to Record: Russia Credit
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-05-13T11:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/putin-oil-thirst-driving-eurasia-bonds-to-record-russia-credit.html
Eurasia Drilling Co. (EDCL)  is rallying in
the  bond market  as investors bet increased spending by Russia’s
biggest crude producers will drive the field-services provider’s
revenue to a record.  The yield on Eurasia’s dollar-denominated bonds due April
2020 dropped 26 basis points this month to 4.50 percent today.
That compares with an increase of 18 basis points to 3.63
percent for similar-maturity debt from higher-rated Geneva-based
driller Weatherford International Ltd.  OAO Rosneft and OAO Lukoil have boosted spending on new
wells and hired drillers to tap new fields, including Arctic
deposits, as President  Vladimir Putin  vows to maintain stable
output of the country’s chief export earner. Eurasia Drilling
Chief Executive Officer Alexander Djaparidze predicted on April
29 a “record” year for the company after  Brent crude  rebounded
from below $100 a barrel.  “The name is new, the name is good, so when  oil prices 
resume their ascent, why not buy its debt?” Dmitry Dudkin, head
of fixed-income research at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow,
said by e-mail on May 8. “Service companies are the first
derivative of the situation with oil and gas giants.”  Biggest Clients  Rosneft, the world’s largest publicly traded oil company by
output, and Lukoil, Russia’s biggest non-state crude producer,
account for more than 80 percent of Eurasia Drilling’s orders,
according to a company presentation. Moscow-based Lukoil said in
April it plans to boost spending to $20 billion this year, 25
percent more than had been proposed previously.  Russia  increased crude and condensate production 1.5
percent in April from a year earlier to 10.47 million barrels a
day, close to a post-Soviet-era record, according to preliminary
data released May 2 by the Energy Ministry’s CDU-TEK unit. Putin
has called for oil output to be maintained at more than 10
million barrels a day.  Eurasia is ranked BB+ at  Standard & Poor’s , it highest junk
status, and one step lower at  Fitch Ratings . The company sold
its $600 million of the 2020 bonds in April at a yield of 4.875
percent.  Revenue will advance to $3.6 billion this year from $3.2
billion in 2012 as Eurasia benefits from so-called horizontal
drilling projects, Chief Financial Officer  Richard Anderson  said
in January. Drillers can charge  oil companies  higher rates for
developing horizontal wells, which can increase flows from
deposits, allowing them to exploit unconventional resources
profitably.  Brent fell for a second day, retreating 1.1 percent to
$102.73 a barrel.  Ruble Risk  Depreciation in Russia’s exchange rate may hurt the
company’s finances as  capital spending  is mostly in dollars
while sales are in rubles, Ildar Davletshin, an oil and gas
analyst at  Renaissance Capital  in Moscow, said by e-mail on May
8. The company has plans to buy and build rigs through 2016, he
said.  The ruble added 0.1 percent to the dollar to 31.3200 by
2:54 p.m. in Moscow. The currency declined 2.2 percent versus
the greenback in the first quarter, and will be at 31.1000 at
the end of the second quarter, according to the median estimate
of 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “A possible devaluation of the ruble could negatively
impact its credit profile,” Davletshin said.  Yield Gap  Russia is ranked BBB at Fitch, the second-lowest investment
grade. The yield on the country’s dollar bonds due April 2042
rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.50 percent.
The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt rather
than U.S. Treasuries rose five basis points to 175, according to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes . The difference compares with 153
for debt of  Mexico  and 162 for Brazil.  The cost of insuring Russia’s debt using credit default
swaps increased two basis points to 130. The swaps cost 14 basis
points more than  Turkey , which is ranked one step lower by Fitch
at BBB-. The contracts, which decline as perceptions of
creditworthiness improve, pay the buyer face value in exchange
for underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  As a client of Eurasia, Lukoil helps investor confidence,
 Ian McCall , who helps manage about $107 million in emerging
market assets at Quesnell Capital SA in Geneva, said by e-mail
on May 10.  “This is a sector -- oilfield services and drilling in
particular -- that is pretty easy for most investment managers
to understand,” McCall said. “And this company is arguably the
leader in many drilling sectors in Russia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  