-- Retail Sales Probably Declined in April: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-05-12T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/retail-sales-probably-declined-in-april-u-s-economy-preview.html
Retail sales  probably fell in April
for a second consecutive month and manufacturing stalled,
indicating the world’s largest economy is cooling, economists
said before reports this week.  The 0.3 percent drop in purchases would follow a 0.4
percent decline in March, according to the  median  forecast of 74
economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of Commerce Department
figures tomorrow. Excluding automobiles and gasoline, sales
probably climbed. Other data may show industrial production
decreased in April.  Vehicle sales are leveling off as Americans cope with
higher taxes, which combined with automatic federal spending
cuts, are projected to slow growth this quarter. At the same
time, other reports this week may show homebuilding continues to
be a bright spot and the cost of living remains contained, signs
that the expansion is unlikely to be derailed.  “I wouldn’t expect consumers to rein in their horns a
lot,” said Paul Edelstein, director of financial economics at
IHS Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts . “The fiscal
tightening is a negative for growth. Even when the economy is
growing slowly, housing is going to do much better.”  Higher taxes may be starting to squeeze household budgets
this quarter, prompting Americans to rebuild savings. At the
beginning of 2013, the  payroll tax  reverted to its 2010 rate of
6.2 percent after holding at 4.2 percent for two years.  Auto Sales  Demand for automobiles leveled off in April, when cars and
light trucks sold at a  14.9 million  annual pace, down from a
15.2 million rate the prior month, according to data from Ward’s
Automotive Group. The average for the first quarter was 15.3
million, the strongest since the same period in 2008 and a sign
the longer-term outlook remains positive.  Falling gasoline prices also hurt service-station receipts
as the Commerce Department’s retail data aren’t adjusted for
prices. A gallon of  regular gasoline  at the pump averaged $3.55
in April, lower than March’s $3.69. The price peaked at a four-month high of $3.79 on Feb. 26, according to AAA, the biggest
U.S. auto group.  At the same time, the lower fuel costs are bringing relief
to households.  Retailers that sell discounted name-brand clothing and home
goods were among those showing the best results. Same-store
sales jumped 8 percent last month from the same time in 2012 at
 TJX Cos. (TJX) , the owner of T.J. Maxx and Marshalls stores, while
 Ross Stores Inc. (ROST)  had a 7 percent gain. Results at both chains
exceeded analysts’ forecasts.  ‘Strong’ May  May is “off to a strong start,” Sherry Lang, senior vice-president of global communications at Framingham, Massachusetts-based TJX, said on a May 9 sales call. “It was nice to see
strength in apparel as well as home categories across the
board.”  Among chains that didn’t do so well was  L Brands Inc. (LTD)  The
operator of the Victoria’s Secret lingerie chain reported a 2
percent rise in April sales at stores open at least a year,
missing analysts’ average estimate.  Investors are betting retailers will weather the fallout
from higher taxes. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Retailing Index has advanced 18.7 percent this year, compared
with a 14.6 percent gain in the broader  S&P 500 (SPX)  index.  Industrial production fell 0.1 percent in April, following
a 0.4 percent gain in March that was driven by electricity and
natural-gas use due to colder-than-normal temperatures,
economists in the Bloomberg survey projected ahead of Federal
Reserve data on May 15. The report may show manufacturing, which
makes up 75 percent of total production, was little-changed.  May Manufacturing  Manufacturing may pick up in May, economists forecast ahead
of regional reports from the Fed this week. Factories in the
Philadelphia and  New York  areas are projected to expand at a
faster pace.  Housing may have cooled last month from jumping to an
almost five-year high in March, a Commerce Department report may
show on May 16. Builders began  work  on 973,000 homes at an
annualized rate in April after a 1.04 million pace that was the
strongest since June 2008, according to the Bloomberg survey
median. Permits, a sign of future construction, are forecast to
have climbed.  At the same time,  mortgage rates  near record lows and
rising demand indicate residential real-estate will keep
improving. The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
index of  builder confidence  rose in May to 43, the first gain in
five months, economists projected. The data is due May 15.  Also due this week, three reports from the Labor Department
may show inflation remained under control. The import price
gauge and an index of wholesale prices both declined in April,
economists forecast. The  consumer price index , to be released on
May 16 and the broadest of the three measures, fell 0.3 percent,
the second consecutive drop, according to the survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  