-- Ryanair’s O’Leary Seeks Europe Short-Haul Route Mastery
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-05-13T16:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/ryanair-s-o-leary-targets-short-haul-supremacy-in-europe-endgame.html
Michael O’Leary , who built  Ryanair
Holdings Plc (RYA)  into  Europe ’s biggest discount airline over two
decades, pledged to stay another five years and render its
dominance complete as competitors exit short-haul flying.  Dublin-based Ryanair will seize on the likely failure of
major carriers such as Air France-KLM Group to earn profits on
short routes and the withering of networks at Alitalia SpA in
 Italy , Iberia in  Spain  and  SAS AB (SAS)  in Scandinavia, the 52-year-old chief executive officer said in an interview in London.  O’Leary, who has regularly promised to quit Ryanair “in a
couple of years,” will boost the fleet to more than 400 jets by
2018 and aims to double the company’s 8.65 billion-euro ($11
billion) market value over the same period. That could pave the
way for a shift into low-cost trans-Atlantic flying as demand
for wide-body planes eases, making them cheaper, he said.  “There’s going to be a push for the legacy carriers to walk
away from the loss-making, short-haul business, handing over
more and more market share,” O’Leary said. “The rate of change
is going to speed up. The next five years look very interesting
and exciting and therefore there is no reason for me to leave.”  Shares of Ryanair have posted a 114 percent price gain
since May 2008 and closed at 6.12 euros in Dublin today.  Air
France-KLM (AF) , Europe’s biggest airline, has slumped 63 percent
over the past five years and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  of  Germany ,
the No. 2, has declined 5.3 percent.  ‘Doomed’ Experiment  Former national carriers including Air France, Lufthansa
and British Airways parent  International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA (IAG)  are part-way through the latest revamp of short-haul
flights that are unprofitable and becoming less sustainable as
low-cost airlines expand operations.  O’Leary said that the experiment -- which has seen IAG set
up a discount unit, Iberia Express, in Spain and Lufthansa
develop plans to transfer European flights outside its hubs to
low-cost division Germanwings -- won’t succeed.  “The problem with all the flag-carrier airlines is they’re
ultimately doomed to failure,” he said. “They are doomed to
fail because they’re not really committed to low fares.”  ‘Revolutionary’  Only a handful of short-haul routes feeding profitable
long-haul services will survive even at the biggest operators,
while the likes of SAS and LOT Polish Airlines SA may be forced
into a deeper retrenchment or collapse, O’Leary said. Last year
saw the failure of Barcelona-based Spanair SA and Hungary’s
Malev Zrt., plus takeovers including IAG’s purchase of Lufthansa
unit BMI, the second-biggest slot holder at  London Heathrow .  Lufthansa spokesman  Thomas Jachnow  said the Cologne-based
company is “convinced” that the expansion of Germanwings puts
it in a good position within Europe, while IAG declined to
comment and Air France-KLM didn’t respond to calls.  Under O’Leary, Ryanair’s strategy of offering bargain-basement fares rendered profitable through the use of secondary
airports and a minimum level of  customer service  has propelled
it from 1.7 million passengers in 1994 to 79 million last year,
with the company targeting 100 million by March 2019.  “We’ve re-invented the European  airline industry  away from
this failed ’50s and ’60s model where you had to be rich to
fly,” he said in the interview. “And what we’re going to do in
the next five years is going to be even more revolutionary.”  Max Talks  Ryanair ordered 175  Boeing Co. (BA)  737-800 single-aisle jets in
March and has appointed a team to work on a follow-up deal to
add a further 100 planes, most likely the U.S. company’s new 737
Max model, giving a total list price of more than $20 billion.  O’Leary said a purchase, which may also include further
737-800s, could be sealed by year’s end, with a decision hinging
on pricing in view of the Max’s trade-off between economy and
weight. While the re-engined jet will offer fuel savings of as
much as 13 percent, modifications have made it heavier and
liable for higher fees from infrastructure providers, he said.  The CEO said he’ll also press Boeing to develop a model
with a dozen or so more seats, perhaps through the removal of
bulkheads and one of three lavatories, in order to boost
capacity to the optimum level. Profitability could also be
driven by removing more airports from state control to encourage
competitive prices and paring air-traffic-control fees, he said.  New Ethos  O’Leary said Ryanair may ultimately need to shift away from
an idiosyncratic management style that’s seen him deployed as a
marketing tool, courting negative publicity as well as positive
through talk of standing zones and pay toilets on planes to
project the brand at minimum cost. The carrier has an annual
marketing budget of just 4 million pounds ($6 million), he said.  “There’s going to be a time over the next few years to
ease me out and try to change the image of Ryanair away from
being somewhat cavalier, that we don’t care,” he said. “I
think we need to soften those sharper edges of my personality.”  O’Leary said he retains an interest in establishing a long-haul discount airline that would ferry passengers between five
or so major European cities and about 10 in the U.S., spread
evenly between the east and west coasts. The airline would
operate under a different brand and feature a business class
similar to that of  Richard Branson ’s Virgin Atlantic Airways
Ltd., but with a less costly and more basic experience in coach.  Start-up costs could be as low as 50 million pounds, plus
fleet expenses.  “We’re waiting for a downturn in long-haul aircraft
values,” he said. “If you had ten-pound or ten-euro air fares
in economy you’d be unbeatable. I’m amazed none of the trans-Atlantic carriers have really targeted that market.”  Aer Lingus Wrangle  Ryanair would have found itself with long-haul routes had
its succeeded in its latest bid for control of Dublin-based  Aer
Lingus Group Plc (AERL) , Ireland’s second-biggest carrier and a
competitor in the short-haul market.  The offer, which valued Aer Lingus at 694 million euros,
was blocked in February by European Union regulators who ruled
it would increase fares and reduce choice. A separate inquiry by
the U.K. Competition Commission is unlikely to drive Ryanair to
sell its remaining 30 percent holding, O’Leary said.  “If we were forced to sell down our stake in Aer Lingus
who would we sell it to?” he asked, adding that while the
Ryanair board would consider a “reasonable or profitable”
offer for the 30 percent holding, “nobody wants to buy it.”  Ryanair will report full-year results on May 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  