-- Saudi Death Toll Reaches 15 Since Coronavirus Outbreak in 2012
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-05-12T16:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/saudi-death-toll-reaches-15-since-coronavirus-outbreak-in-2012.html
Saudi Arabia ’s Ministry of Health
said the number of deaths from the coronavirus infection has
reached 15, with 24 confirmed cases since September 2012.  Saudi Arabia has invited scientists from  Columbia
University  to help with a field and environmental survey and
also other specialists from  Canada , the U.S. and the  World
Health Organization , the ministry said.  “After studying the cases of infected people, indicators
of close-contact transmission are evident,” the Minister of
Health, Abdullah Al-Rabeeah said in a  statement  today.
“However, the method of transition and the source of the virus
are yet to be known.”  Coronaviruses are a family of pathogens that cause
illnesses ranging from the common cold to Severe Acute
Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, which sickened more than 8,000
people and killed 774 in 2002 and 2003, according to the WHO.
While the new virus is related to the one that causes SARS, it
appears far less transmissible, the WHO has said.  France  reported its first confirmed case of the infection
five days ago. The patient had traveled to the  Middle East ,
where the first cases of the virus were reported last year,
according to the  World Health Organization . Her roommate, doctor
and a nurse have been hospitalized for tests in Valenciennes, in
northern France, radio station France Info  reported  on its
website.  A second confirmed coronavirus-related infection was
reported in France today as an investigation to identify other
potential cases went on in the northern part of the country. The
newly infected person shared the room with the first patient
infected by the new coronavirus from April 27 to April 29, the
French Health Ministry said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  