-- Sharif Set to Be Pakistan Premier Again as Economy Stalls
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 2013-05-13T07:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/sharif-set-to-become-pakistan-premier-again-as-economy-sputters.html
Nawaz Sharif  was headed for a record
third term as prime minister of Pakistan as unofficial results
from a landmark election gave him the convincing win he sought
to tackle a slumping economy and growing militancy.  Sharif’s  Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz  dominated its Punjab
bastion in the May 11 poll, reduced its chief rival to a third
of its previous strength in parliament and may be able to govern
without the help of a major coalition partner, according to the
tally by state-run Pakistan Television.  “This is an ideal and a graceful victory for Sharif,”
said political analyst and retired army General Talat Masood in
a phone interview in Islamabad yesterday. “He will form a
strong government at the center, which is badly needed to tackle
some enormous economic and security challenges.”  Sharif, 63, will face the challenge of reviving  economic
growth  in the world’s second-most populous Muslim nation which
has slowed to an annual average of 3 percent since 2008 as a
power crisis shuts the grid for up to 18 hours a day. Taliban
insurgents whose fight to impose Islamic rule rages near the
Afghan border marred the election campaign with attacks that
killed 151 people, many of them in Karachi.  Sharif, with 127 lawmakers, was set to beat both
established and emerging opponents: The  Pakistan Peoples Party 
of President Asif Ali Zardari, which led the last government,
had 31 members in the lower house of parliament, the PTV tally
showed. Imran Khan, a cricket legend who had promised a
“tsunami” to sweep the old guard from power, stood on 34
lawmakers. A further 70 seats are reserved for women and
religious minorities and will be awarded later.  Shares Surge  Pakistan’s benchmark share index extended its rally in the
first day of trading after the election, rising as much as 1.6
percent, the most in almost six weeks, to a record.  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said in a statement from
 Singapore  today that Pakistan’s election results set the stage
for longer term stability for the country’s sovereign rating of
B minus, six levels below investment grade.  “This is a key achievement for Pakistan’s maturing
democracy,” Credit Analyst Agost Benard wrote in the statement.
“We believe the election outcome puts the incoming government
in good stead to sew up” a deal with the  International Monetary
Fund  soon.  Sharif received congratulations and an invitation to visit
from Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , who said he hoped the
countries could pursue “a new destiny in relations,” which
have been bedeviled by wars, decades of mistrust and a 2008
terrorist attack on Mumbai.  Power Transfer  The ballot marked the first time a civilian government
completed its term and transferred power to a successor.
Pakistan has been ruled for half its history by the military.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said Pakistan’s people
had shown resolve against threats by extremists. The vote
turnout was about 60 percent, according to the Election
Commission, up from 44 percent in 2008.  If Sharif is to turn his poll success into a stable
government, he’ll have to deliver on promises to overhaul the
economy and tackle militancy, and show he learned from his
previous two periods in charge.  While unlikely to need the support of larger parties, he
may need to woo smaller regional groups and independents to help
him pass legislation.  Corruption Allegations  Sharif’s first administration from 1990-1993 was cut short
by corruption allegations, and his second by Pervez Musharraf’s
1999 coup after he attempted to remove the military chief as he
returned from a trip to  Sri Lanka .  “Sharif’s problem has been not realizing the power and
autonomy of institutions,” said  Riaz Hassan , visiting research
professor at the Institute of South Asian Studies at the
 National University  of Singapore, by phone from Adelaide. Last
time he governed, “in a very short period of time he alienated
the  Supreme Court  and the military. I hope he has learned his
lessons.”  Sharif said in a recent interview with the Geo channel he’d
hire professional managers for loss-making state companies and
end the cycle of debt that has crippled electricity generation
and transmission companies. He also plans to ramp up lending for
small businesses.  Energy Reform  “His party has the support of most businessmen,” Anatol Lieven, a professor at  London ’s King’s College and author of
“ Pakistan : A Hard Country,” said yesterday by phone. “His
election manifesto is more specific and serious than other
parties when it comes to reform of the energy sector and
privatization.”  Economists including Sakib Sherani, Islamabad-based chief
executive officer at Macro Economic Insights, say he will also
need to secure another bailout from the IMF as early as June to
service debt payments as foreign exchange reserves have plunged
40 percent from a year ago, according to central bank data.  One of Sharif’s key aides, Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan, said in
an interview with Bloomberg in Rawalpindi last month the PML
would cut taxes on manufacturing and stem losses at state-run
companies.  “It is our party which initiated privatization, opened up
the economy, brought in private banks, private insurance
companies” when in power in the 1990s, Khan said. “So we know
what we are talking about.”  Sharif ended state monopolies in shipping, airlines and
telecommunication. He ordered nuclear tests in 1998, weeks after
rival  India .  Military Government  The eldest son of a wealthy business family, Sharif entered
politics under the military government of General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq. He became finance minister of Punjab in 1983 and later
its chief minister, according to the PML’s official website.  After Zia’s death in a plane crash in 1988, Sharif
alternated two terms as prime minister with his main rival,
 Benazir Bhutto  of the Peoples Party before being ousted in a
coup by military chief  Sharif’s efforts to improve infrastructure and governance
in Punjab, where his party has ruled since 2008, boosted his
election performance, said Muhammad Waseem, a political science
professor at the Lahore University of Management Sciences.  “His credibility will be at stake if he is unable to
quickly fix power companies and reduce blackouts,” Waseem said.
“This is something which is affecting every citizen every
day.”  Unwinding a web of extremist groups may prove an even
bigger challenge, said Lieven.  Peace Talks  Like the party of  Imran Khan , the PML-N has called for
peace talks with the Pakistani Taliban, something that has been
tried before and has failed, Lieven said.  “The Pakistani Taliban made bigger and bigger gains,” he
said from London. “There is a real risk that will start
happening again” if military offensives cease.  Pakistan’s army dominates security policy and has its own
links to extremist groups that have been enmeshed in conflicts
in India and  Afghanistan . In Punjab, Sharif’s provincial
administration has failed to crack down on militant groups like
Lashkar-e-Taiba, which India blames for the three-day siege of
its finance capital.  Sharif would seek the support of military commanders and
political rivals to counter extremism, the PML-N’s Khan said in
the April interview. The “government of the day and the armed
forces’ leadership must sit together and be clear as to who are
with us and who are against us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  