-- Singh’s Resignation Sought by Indian Opposition Parties
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-05-13T05:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/singh-resignation-sought-by-opposition-after-firings-over-graft.html
India’s main opposition party stepped
up pressure on Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  to resign, with
protests outside his home after he sought to end a political
crisis by firing two ministers over graft allegations.  Singh’s government, weakened by corruption scandals and a
stalled legislative agenda, suffered fresh embarrassment when
the law and railways ministers were forced to quit on May 10
amid graft probes by the nation’s  Central Bureau of
Investigation . The  Bharatiya Janata Party , which lost power to
the Congress party in 2004, said Singh has no authority left to
govern.  The exit of the two Cabinet members is the latest blow to
Singh, 80, whose government has been roiled by persistent
corruption allegations in his second term as he struggles to
revive an economy expanding at the slowest pace in a decade.
Over the last four years, six cabinet ministers have resigned
after being accused in corruption cases, with the opposition
parties claiming this is the most graft-ridden government in
India’s history.  “Singh’s reputation has certainly been damaged over this
episode,” said D.H. Pai Panandiker, president of the RPG
Foundation, a New Delhi-based economic research group. “His
reputation for personal integrity is well established, but there
is an impression he tolerates others being corrupt.”  Bribe for Job  Congress party chief  Sonia Gandhi  forced Singh to seek the
exit of the two ministers from his council, the Indian Express
reported on May 11. While Singh hasn’t commented, the
president’s office issued a brief statement the same day saying
on Singh’s advice, President  Pranab Mukherjee  accepted the
resignations.  Rail minister Pawan Kumar Bansal resigned after the CBI
earlier this month arrested a member of his family on charges he
accepted money to help secure an official a top post in the rail
department. Law minister Ashwani Kumar quit after the CBI told
India’s top court last month that he was among officials who
vetted a probe report on allocation of coal mines and altered
its contents. Both men deny any wrongdoing.  Singh was in charge of the coal ministry for part of the
period under investigation and has been blamed by opposition
parties for irregularities.  India’s  Supreme Court  criticized the CBI and the government
on May 8 for making changes to the report. It said the CBI has
become a “caged parrot and it has many masters” as it directed
the government to make it independent.  ‘Question Mark’  “The question is not of one or two ministers, whatever has
been going on has put a question mark on the whole
administration,” the BJP President Rajnath Singh told reporters
May 11. “If the prime minister introspects, there is no option
but to resign.”  Protesters clashed with the police outside the prime
minister’s official residence yesterday, prompting the police to
use water cannons to disperse hundreds of members of the youth
wing of the BJP. Television footage showed people burning an
effigy of Singh and arrests being made by the police.  The exit of the two ministers won’t sway the financial
markets in Mumbai though investors would want to know if Singh
will last his term, said U.R. Bhat, director at Dalton Capital
Advisors  India  Pvt.  PM’s Doorstep  The benchmark S&P BSE Sensex index slipped 0.6 percent as
of 10:54 a.m. in Mumbai, trimming gains in the past month to 9.6
percent. It closed at a 28-month high on May 11 after a special
trading session. The rupee weakened 0.1 percent to 54.875 a
dollar.  “What could cause a problem is that it finally may reach
the prime minister’s doorstep,” said Mumbai-based Bhat. “The
way the government is going, it may not last the full term.
Their moral authority to govern is diluted and we don’t know how
long the edifice can withstand the pressure.”  The government in September began opening up industries
including aviation and retailing to foreigners and cut taxes on
investors buying bonds to encourage inflows as estimates by the
statistics office showed the $1.8 trillion economy expanded 5
percent in the year to March 31, the least since 2003.  Singh is planning a Cabinet reshuffle this week, CNN-IBN
television channel reported on May 11. Until then, road minister
C.P. Joshi will handle the rail portfolio, while
telecommunications minister  Kapil Sibal  will oversee law.  Accused by political opponents of being weak and
indecisive, Singh has come under criticism for his initial
reluctance to dismiss the ministers after the alleged scandals
emerged. India’s parliament ended its budget session two days
earlier than scheduled last week as opposition parties stalled
proceedings, demanding the resignation of the two men.  Early Elections  The ruling Congress party may be trying to show that it is
getting tough on graft to help build on the momentum after it
swept to power in the southern state of Karnataka this month,
routing the BJP that had faced its own share of scandals
locally, said N. Bhaskara Rao, chairman of Center for Media
Studies.  The decision to fire the ministers may be because Congress
“want to show they are doing something about corruption and
more effective governance,” New Delhi-based Rao said. “They
are exploring the possibility of early elections.”  The BJP, which ruled Karnataka for the past five years,
became embroiled in a $3.6 billion illegal mining scam where
companies were accused by the state’s anti-corruption ombudsman
of operating without permits and evading taxes. Chief Minister
B.S. Yeddyurappa was named in the probe and forced to step down.  Those revelations have rendered BJP’s campaign against
Congress corruption hollow as the nation faces polls.  Opinion Poll  Andimuthu Raja resigned in 2010 as telecommunications
minister after being accused by the country’s chief auditor of
favoring certain companies in the awarding of mobile-phone
licenses in a move that may have cost the exchequer $31 billion.
He is on trial and denies any wrongdoing.  Singh’s ruling coalition would lose an election, which must
be held by May 2014, according to an opinion poll published last
month, while the chief opposition alliance is on course to make
only marginal gains.  The current political mood in India means regional parties
such as the Samajwadi Party that rules  Uttar Pradesh , Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress and the All India Anna Dravida
Munnetra Kazhagam in power in southern Tamil Nadu province are
gaining in strength, the C-voter survey for the Times Now TV
channel found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at   rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  