-- SkyCity Agrees to Build Convention Center, Gets License Extended
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-05-12T21:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/skycity-agrees-to-build-convention-center-gets-license-extended.html
SkyCity Entertainment Group Ltd., New
Zealand’s biggest casino operator, agreed to invest NZ$402
million ($333 million) to build a convention center in Auckland
in exchange for an extension of its gaming license in the city.  The center will handle 3,500 delegates on a site near the
existing casino and hotel, and should be operating by late 2017,
SkyCity Chief Executive Officer Nigel Morrison said in a
statement. The Auckland-based company will be able to install
230 more gaming machines and 40 more tables as part of the pact.  Prime Minister John Key has supported construction of the
center in New Zealand’s largest city, saying it will boost
tourism and create jobs. The company expects 1,000 workers will
be involved in construction and 800 in operation, with an
injection of about NZ$90 million a year into the economy.  “The center will provide a venue of the size and shape
required to allow New Zealand to finally compete with other
countries for our fair share of major international
conferences,” said Morrison. “Its a core piece of New Zealand
tourism infrastructure.”  SkyCity expects to spend NZ$315 million on construction and
NZ$87 million contributing a 14,000 square meter site. It will
fund the project from cash and existing debt facilities.  Extending the Auckland gaming license, which was to expire
in 2021, “provides the certainty needed to secure continued
long-term financing,” Morrison said.  SkyCity will introduce card-based cashless gaming and can
allow 17 percent of its machines to accept bank note
denominations higher than NZ$20 as part of the deal. It will add
more staff and introduce technology to identify problem
gamblers, it said.  The company will get compensation if any of the reforms
change during its license period, and if there is an increase in
casino taxes prior to four years after the center is finished,
it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  