-- SoftBank Plans Silicon Valley Center as Part of Sprint Takeover
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-05-12T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/softbank-plans-silicon-valley-center-as-part-of-sprint-takeover.html
SoftBank Corp. (9984) , bidding to take over
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  in a $20.1 billion deal, is planning a new
Silicon Valley office for the U.S. carrier that would employ as
many as 1,000 people.  Executives have already started holding monthly meetings in
the  California  technology hub, which is partway between
Softbank’s Tokyo headquarters and Sprint’s offices in Kansas.
Masayoshi Son, president of the Japanese carrier, said he’s
looking to inject more of an inventive spirit into Sprint and be
an active chairman of the company.  “I’d like to bring Silicon Valley into the mix,” Son said
in an interview last week. “We’re bringing SoftBank capital,
our know-how and myself to this.”  Son has been laying out his vision for the merger in an
effort to ward off a counterbid from  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , which
offered $25.5 billion for Sprint last month. He spent last week
meeting with Sprint shareholders in New York, before traveling
to California to make his case to West Coast investors.  Son, 55, also owns a mansion in Silicon Valley. He bought a
9-acre (3.6 hectare) estate in the suburb Woodside for $117.5
million cash in November 2012, a person with knowledge of the
transaction has said. During his meetings last week, he pulled
up to the Rosewood Hotel in Menlo Park in a gray Rolls-Royce.  “Silicon Valley is more convenient for me,” Son said.  Berkeley Educated  The move would build on Sprint’s small presence in the
area, which is home to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Google Inc. and Facebook Inc.
Sprint currently has a center in Burlingame and another in San
Mateo. SoftBank said it hasn’t decided on the location of the
new Silicon Valley office, which won’t replace Sprint’s current
headquarters in Overland Park, Kansas. The employees will come
from SoftBank and Sprint, as well as new hires, Son said.  The SoftBank executive,  Japan ’s second-richest person, has
long-standing ties to the Bay Area, which includes Silicon
Valley. He attended the University of California, Berkeley,
where he  invented  a voice-operated multilingual translator and
sold the technology to Sharp Corp. in 1979. He also imported
“Space Invaders” machines from Japan and leased them to
cafeterias at Berkeley, capitalizing on surging demand for video
games.  Son’s Silicon Valley lifestyle has provided ammunition to
Dish Chairman Charlie Ergen, a fellow billionaire who is trying
to undermine SoftBank’s Sprint deal. Ergen counterbid for
Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, as part of an
effort to expand into the mobile-phone business.  At Dish’s annual meeting earlier this month, Ergen
questioned why someone needed a $117 million estate. Ergen’s
Colorado home is worth about $1 million, he said, suggesting
that he’s more inclined to put his money back into the business.
Ergen also drives a Chevy SUV, not a Rolls-Royce.  SoftBank’s proposed Silicon Valley office will be focused
on “innovation and procurement,” Son said. Sprint’s current
management, including Chief Executive Officer Dan Hesse, will
remain in place about 2,000 miles (3,200 kilometers) away in
 Kansas .  “I would add innovations and excitement,” Son said. “I’m
a hands-on guy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  