-- U.K. Business Confidence Rises as CBI Maintains Growth Forecast
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-05-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/u-k-business-confidence-rises-as-cbi-maintains-growth-forecast.html
The Confederation of British Industry
said company sentiment has improved as Britain’s biggest
business lobby group maintained its forecast for growth to pick
up over the next two years.  “In the conversations I have with business leaders, I’ve
been hearing that whilst firms are on a cautious footing,
there’s a bit more confidence about the economic outlook,” CBI
Director-General John Cridland said at a press conference in
 London . “The right way to judge the economy is that it’s moving
from flat to growth.”  The CBI published quarterly forecasts today showing that
the economy will expand 1 percent this year and 2 percent in
2014, the same as it estimated in February. Gross domestic
product grew 0.3 percent last year. The Bank of England left its
quantitative-easing plan unchanged last week as some business
surveys suggest the recovery is building momentum after the
economy returned to growth in the first quarter. The CBI said
today its economic forecasts assume no further expansion of QE.  “The drivers of growth, which are just now beginning to
broaden, will broaden further next year,” Cridland said. “With
the year getting off to a positive start, the mood amongst
companies growing a little brighter, our outlook remains one of
cautious optimism for the U.K. economy.”  Armed with new quarterly forecasts, BOE policy makers kept
the target for bond purchases at 375 billion pounds ($575
billion) on May 9. The decision followed BOE Governor Mervyn King’s penultimate meeting before he is replaced by Bank of
Canada chief Mark Carney on July 1.  No More  “We’re not expecting many changes for the next few months
before the new governor takes place,” CBI Director of Economics
Stephen Gifford said, referring to BOE policy. “We’re probably
at the peak of what the  QE (UKAPTARG)  package has been. There may be some
more if economic conditions deteriorate, but if they don’t, I
don’t expect any more.”  Gifford said the CBI was putting its hopes on the central
bank’s credit-boosting Funding for Lending Scheme to spur the
economic recovery.  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne has broadened
the BOE’s remit ahead of Carney’s arrival to allow it more
flexibility to look through above-target inflation and asked it
to review the merits of forward policy guidance.  “Forward guidance is particular thing which many of our
members think would be a positive step,” Gifford said.  Inflation Peak  While  inflation  will peak in the current quarter at 3.1
percent and then fall, it will remain above the Bank of
England’s 2 percent target throughout 2014, the CBI said.
“Household spending is expected to remain subdued with wage
growth weak and unemployment expected to rise slightly,” the
lobby group said.  A report from BDO LLP today showed its business confidence
index rose to 93 in April from 92.2 in March, while its gauge of
company output expectations increased to 94.1 from 93. Still,
its output index remains below the 95 level that points to
positive growth one quarter ahead.  Separately, the Chartered Institute of Personnel and
Development said its employment measure had increased to 9 this
quarter from 5 for the previous period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  