-- U.K.’s Gove Says Nick Clegg Is Subject of Liberal Democrat Plot
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-05-12T13:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/u-k-s-gove-says-nick-clegg-is-subject-of-liberal-democrat-plot.html
The U.K.’s Conservative Education
Secretary Michael Gove said that  Nick Clegg ’s opposition to
child-care changes is due to an internal Liberal Democrat plot
to unseat him as the party’s leader.  Tory Child-Care Minister Liz Truss has suggested letting
adults look after four babies under 24 months of age rather than
three, as now, and six two-year-olds rather than the current
four in a bid to cut child-care costs for working parents. A
spokesman for Clegg, speaking on customary condition of
anonymity, said by telephone on May 9 that the deputy premier
has still to be persuaded that’s the right move.  Gove said the proposed changes are “absolutely right” and
alleged Clegg was the victim of “maneuvers” by a Liberal
Democrat lawmaker in the upper House of Lords, Mathew Oakeshott,
an ally of Business Secretary Vince Cable. Clegg’s Liberal
Democrats are the junior coalition partner of Conservative Prime
Minister  David Cameron .  “I don’t think that we can understand Nick Clegg’s
position without also appreciating the position that he’s in
because of internal Lib Dem politics,” Gove told the  BBC ’s
“Andrew Marr Show” today. “There’s a campaign at the moment
being led by Matthew Oakeshott to try to destabilize Nick Clegg
because Matthew Oakeshott wants Vince Cable to succeed him.”  In a separate interview given before Gove’s allegations and
published in the Sunday Telegraph today, Cable said “the
party’s wish and his wish” is that Nick Clegg “should continue
as leader and nobody’s questioning that. I don’t have an
ambition.”  Cable’s ‘Stamina’  Cable, 70, also told the newspaper that he has plenty of
“energy” and “stamina” to continue.  A Liberal Democrat aide, speaking on customary condition of
anonymity, said the party appreciated that Gove has leadership
ambitions of his own and wants to turn public attention away
from Tory divisions over its relationship with the European
Union.  The concerns over child-care ratios are shared by a number
of Tories in private and Clegg will not allow dogma to be put
ahead of the interests of Britain’s children, the aide said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at  kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  