-- Unilever Says Go Long as Currencies Extend Rally: Southeast Asia
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-05-12T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/unilever-says-go-long-as-currencies-extend-rally-southeast-asia.html
Unilever (ULVR) , the seller of Lipton tea
and Dove shampoo, expects  Southeast Asia ’s currencies to
strengthen further against the  U.S. dollar  and euro in the next
few years as foreign investment boosts economic growth.  “I would go long on the currencies in Southeast  Asia ,”
Peter Ter-Kulve, the London- and Rotterdam-based company’s chief
executive officer for Southeast Asia, said in an interview on
May 10. “Most of the monetary policies are very robust at the
moment and the currencies are a testament to the fundamental
strength of the economies we are in.”  Unilever uses a so-called “natural hedge” against
currency swings by sourcing and producing products in local
markets, he said.  Southeast Asia’s currencies are among the best performers
in Asia this year, led by the  Thai baht  and Malaysian ringgit.
Growth in Southeast Asian nations may average 5.4 percent this
year, and quicken to 5.7 percent in 2014, according to the  Asian
Development Bank , which predicts a 1 percent expansion in
advanced economies this year.  Southeast Asian currencies may face pressure from overseas
inflows amid quantitative easing from major central banks,
according to Enrico Tanuwidjaja, a Singapore-based economist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  More Savvy  “But it’s not going to be a one-way street for all of them
because it’s going to be treated differently,” Tanuwidjaja said
in a May 10 phone interview. “One thing that is positive is
that regional central banks are more savvy, they are more
prepared and they have a lot more policy tools. That’s a common
thread among Southeast Asian countries and it’s a very good
sign.”  Thai Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said on May 10
the central bank should cut the key  interest rate  by more than a
quarter of a percentage point or implement  capital controls  to
stem the baht’s rise.  Ter-Kulve is especially confident about Unilever’s
prospects for  Indonesia , calling it the “big gorilla.” Sales
at its publicly traded company in the region’s biggest economy
reached 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) after 80 years, and took
only four years to double to 2 billion euros.  Indonesia’s economy expanded 6.2 percent last year, with
growth forecast to increase to 6.6 percent in 2015, according to
a Bloomberg survey of 24 economists.  ‘Indonesian Decennium’  “I have a lot of confidence that the next 20 years will be
the Indonesia decennium,” Ter-Kulve, 48, said. “At a certain
point you can’t stop the flying wheel any more. Too many people
are turning into the middle class.”  Still, he expects short-term stumbling blocks for the
region, such as Indonesia’s elections next year.  The ruling Democrat Party chose the country’s president,
 Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono , as chairman ahead of national
elections next year amid jockeying among possible replacements
that could stall spending on roads and ports. He was elected
March 30 at an extraordinary congress in Bali to succeed Anas
Urbaningrum, who resigned after becoming at least the third
senior party official linked to corruption allegations in less
than two years.  He’s also concerned about the increase in the price of some
food products. The cost of whole milk powder has surged about 90
percent this year through the end of April as a drought in  New
Zealand  curbed milk collection and the cost of orange juice has
climbed 19 percent since January.  “There is a lot of volatility in the market, but we are
able to deal with it,” he said in a Bloomberg Television
interview with Haslinda Amin, adding that Unilever is hedged
against price rises for the “next three to six months” before
passing it on to consumers.  ‘Another Vietnam’  Unilever will also focus on opportunities in new markets in
Southeast Asia, such as Myanmar, which he said could be
“another  Vietnam ” in 20 years. The company is already selling
its products through 100,000 outlets in the country, he said.  Emerging markets  made up more than half of Unilever’s
revenue in 2012, it said in its annual report. They offered
“double-digit” growth in countries including Indonesia and
Vietnam, he said.  Ter-Kulve, who called  Ben & Jerry’s  ice-cream his favorite
Unilever product, plans to promote the brand with outlets in
Southeast Asian capital cities similar to those in  Singapore ,
declining to elaborate on the timeframe.  “Economies are growing and incomes are rising,” he said,
adding that “the political situation is stable compared to
other parts of the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  