-- Turkey Arrests Nine in Deadly Bombings Blamed on Syria
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-05-12T14:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/turkey-arrests-nine-in-deadly-bombings-blamed-on-syria.html
Turkish police arrested nine suspects
in connection with an attack that killed 46 people in a town
near the Syrian border, as the government blamed the twin car
bombings on Turks with ties to Syrian intelligence.  “There are still a few people at large,” Deputy Prime
Minister Besir Atalay said, according to the state-run Anatolia
news agency. Those responsible for the attacks were “traitors”
inside Turkey, government spokesman Huseyin Celik said in an
interview with TV24 television today. Turkish intelligence had
warned regional officials about a potential attack, Celik said.  The car bombs are “totally related” to Syria and aim to
incite sectarian clashes, Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said
on state-TV. Progress has been made in the hunt for the bombers,
Davutoglu said, adding that the group responsible has a history
of operations in Turkey and is directly tied to the Syrian
regime. The Syrian Resistance militia, led by a Turkish Alawite,
Mihrac Ural, is believed to be behind the blasts, Yeni Safak
newspaper reported, citing unnamed intelligence sources.  The car-bomb explosions in Reyhanli yesterday wounded about
100 people, Interior Minister Muammer Guler said in televised
remarks. Fifty-two people are still being treated, with 26 of
them in a serious condition, Celik said. News channels showed
the charred wreckage of overturned cars and buildings reduced to
smoking rubble after the attack.  Crime Scene  A Turkish court banned broadcasting or publishing videos or
images from the crime scene, the country’s broadcasting
watchdog, RTUK, said on its website today. Celik said some
journalists have been probed for violating the ban in the area.  “The group and its members who organized the attack are
linked to the al-Mukhabarat, which supports the regime in
Syria,” Atalay said yesterday, according to Anatolia. “The
group is certain, and most of the people responsible are also
certain,” he said, without providing further details. Al-Mukhabarat is Arabic for intelligence.  Davutoglu said that the car bombs and a massacre in the
Syrian port city of  Banias  are linked. Between 250 and 1,000
civilians were massacred in Banias, Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said May 7.  Syria denies involvement in the attacks, and Turkey needs
to take responsibility for what happened, Information Minister
Omran al-Zoubi said on State TV. Erdogan has no right “to build
his glory on the blood of Turks and Syrians,” al-Zoubi said.  Deadliest Bombings  The bombings were the deadliest in recent Turkish history.
In 2003, al-Qaeda bombings in Istanbul hit two synagogues,
killing at least 27 people. Five days later the group set off
bombs at an HSBC Holdings Plc building and the British
consulate, killing at least 30. In 1993, the Kurdistan Workers’
Party, or PKK, killed 33 Turkish soldiers in an ambush, the
group’s deadliest attack on record.  Secretary of State John Kerry condemned the “awful”
bombings, saying in a statement that the U.S. stands “with our
ally, Turkey.” The attack struck a personal note because of his
close work with Turkey in his first three months as his
country’s chief diplomat, he said.  Erdogan is scheduled to meet with President  Barack Obama  in
 Washington  on May 16. In an interview with NBC on May 9, Erdogan
called on the U.S. to “assume more responsibilities and take
further steps” to end the fighting in Syria.  Assad has used chemical weapons, crossing Obama’s so-called
red line for a U.S. response, Erdogan told NBC, without saying
how Turkey got the information.  No Coincidence  Foreign Minister Davutoglu told reporters in Berlin
yesterday that it was “not a coincidence” the explosions
occurred at a critical time in efforts to end the Syrian
conflict. The deepening conflict in Syria represents the
breakdown of the United Nations Security Council system, since
inaction by the international community benefits Assad, he said.  Turkey  has sided with rebels fighting to oust Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad, who has accused the Turkish
government of providing them with military support, a claim
Turkey denies. The nation’s artillery units have responded to
shelling by Syrian forces since five Turks were killed in the
border town of Akcakale on Oct. 3. Tensions escalated with
Damascus, once an ally, after Assad’s forces shot down a Turkish
plane in the east Mediterranean in June.  Turkey has opened its doors to more than 300,000 Syrians
who fled the conflict. About 25,000 refugees live in camps in
the area of the blasts, which may have been carried out by
people opposed to Turkey’s safe haven or seeking to use their
presence as a pretext for provocation, Erdogan said.  Creating Rift  The anti-Assad Syrian National Coalition said the attacks
are in retaliation against Turkey for its support of the
opposition, according to an e-mailed statement. “This is a
desperate and failed attempt to create a rift between the
Turkish and Syrian people,” it said.  Assad is the “usual suspect” behind the bombings, Bulent Arinc, another Turkish deputy prime minister, said on NTV
television yesterday. “A massacre was carried out,” he said.
“If proven it was Assad, we will do whatever is required.”  The violence from the civil war in  Syria  has previously
spilled over into its northern neighbor, where a Feb. 11 car-bomb attack at the Turkish border crossing of Cilvegozu killed
14 people, mostly Syrians, and injured more than two dozen.  In October, Turkey’s parliament approved a motion allowing
the government to order military action against Syria, after a
shell fired across the border killed five Turks.  “We have to be extremely careful in the face of every kind
of provocation that aims to draw us into the bloody quagmire in
Syria,” Anatolia agency quoted Erdogan as saying. “We are not
going to lose our temper and common sense to fall in their
trap.”  In a Damascus interview taped on April 2, Assad accused
Erdogan of lying while harboring rebels fighting his government,
and of cooperating with  Israel  against Syria.  “Turkey’s hands have been stained with blood in Syria,”
Assad said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Berlin via 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  