-- Turkish Air Says Kotil to Remain CEO After Suspension Amid Clash
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2013-05-13T11:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/turkish-airlines-board-said-to-meet-after-ceo-kotil-s-suspension.html
Turkish Airlines (THYAO)  said Chief Executive
Temel Kotil will remain in his post and plans to lead
negotiations with trade unions, following a board meeting to
consider his future after Kotil was suspended from office.  “There is no disagreement in the management of Turkish
Airlines,” the company said in an e-mailed statement today.
Kotil “has postponed to next week his annual leave, which he
had requested because of his father’s illness. Presenting this
as a management crisis doesn’t reflect the truth.”  Kotil was suspended from his duties, and the board convened
today to discuss his future, a person familiar with situation
said yesterday. The person, who asked not to be identified
because Kotil’s fate hadn’t been made public, said the CEO faced
the prospect of losing his job at the meeting.  The executive was stripped of his duties following a
disagreement with company Chairman Hamdi Topcu, Turkish
newspaper Milliyet reported yesterday, citing unidentified
executives at the carrier. The spat centered on a controversial
decision to ban make-up on flight attendants, as well as the
handling of a strike that led to the firing of 305 employees,
Milliyet said.  Turkey ’s Hava-Is trade union said May 3 it will go on
strike on May 15 after negotiations failed on raises, crew
overtime work and reinstatement of 305 workers that were fired.  Turk Hava Yollari AO, as the flag carrier is formally
known, met today to discuss the future of Kotil, a person
familiar with the matter said.  Kotil, a former academic who has led Turkish Air since
2005, said in an interview on May 9 that he wants to delay a
possible order for jumbo jets for at least two years,
contrasting with comments by Topcu, who has said the company
will make a decision by the end of the year.  Turkish Airways, in which the government holds a 49 percent
stake, is in the midst of plans to more than double its fleet
and expand its route network. The company has almost tripled in
the last year, making it the  best performing  stock on the 100-member Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index.  Turkish Airlines  fell as much as 2.5 percent to 7.84 liras
today on Borsa Istanbul, the most in a week. The shares were
down 1.2 percent to 7.94 liras at 2:18 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  