-- Venezuela’s Maduro Accuses Polar’s Mendoza of Product Shortages
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2013-05-12T04:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/venezuela-s-maduro-accuses-polar-s-mendoza-of-product-shortages.html
Venezuela  President Nicolas Maduro
accused Lorenzo Mendoza, owner of Empresas Polar SA, Venezuela’s
largest privately held company, of reducing  food production  and
creating shortages amid record scarcity and the region’s fastest
inflation.  “We have many signs that Polar has been cutting production
and hiding products, pretending that nothing is happening, to
create shortages of products such as pre-cooked corn flour,”
Maduro said. Corn flour is used to make arepas, or patties, that
are a breakfast staple in many Venezuelan homes.  Venezuela’s scarcity index, which measures the amount of
goods that are out of stock on the market, rose to 21.3 percent
last month, the highest since the central bank started tracking
the measure in April 2009. Maduro this week visited Uruguay,
 Argentina  and Brazil. Brazil is studying emergency food sales to
Venezuela, Marco Aurelio Garcia, foreign policy adviser to
President  Dilma Rousseff , said on May 9.  Venezuela wants to work with Polar, Maduro said yesterday
on state television. He ordered Vice President Jorge Arreaza to
arrange a meeting in his offices.  “We are willing to go to the necessary institutions to
cooperate with the search for solutions that favor the
Venezuelan people and collaborate with the country’s food
security,” Polar said in a statement posted on its Facebook
page, adding that the company would attend the meeting.  Consumer prices rose 4.3 percent in April, pushing the
annual inflation rate to 29.4 percent, the highest since August
2010, from 25.1 percent a month earlier.  Maduro defeated the opposition’s Henrique Capriles Radonski
by 1.49 percent, the narrowest margin in 45 years, on April 14
after  Hugo Chavez  died March 5 from an undisclosed type of
cancer. Capriles is contesting the result in the  Supreme Court ,
while the electoral council finishes an audit of the votes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  