-- Waha May Spend 200 Million Dirhams on U.A.E. Health Care Assets
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2013-05-12T11:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/waha-may-spend-200-million-dirhams-on-u-a-e-health-care-assets.html
Waha Capital PJSC, the  Abu Dhabi 
investor that owns a stake in plane leasing company  Aercap
Holdings NV (AER) , plans to spend as much as 200 million dirhams ($54
million) on health care assets in the  United Arab Emirates .  “Mandatory health insurance, which has already kicked in
in Abu Dhabi, we think will kick in in the northern emirates
sometime over the next 24 months,” Michael Raynes, Waha’s chief
operating officer, said today in an interview. “In Abu Dhabi,
more people went to clinics because they were insured and
clinics charged more for their services because insurance
companies were effectively paying the bill.”  Waha Capital, which had about 4.4 billion dirhams of assets
as of March 31, had first-quarter net income of 85.3 million
dirhams, a more than five-fold jump from the previous year
because of increased revenues from Aercap, U.A.E. consumer
finance company Dunia Finance and the company’s advisory
business, according to a company statement released today.  The firm would spend several hundred million dirhams more
developing any health care service assets it may purchase this
year, Raynes said. Waha has over 100 million dirhams in cash, a
few hundred million dirhams in unused credit facilities, and
shareholder approval to issue a 1 billion dirham mandatory
convertible note, he said.  “We’re very much focusing on making new investments,”
Raynes said at his office in Abu Dhabi. “We see a huge up tick
in the U.A.E. over the next five to seven years. Health care is
definitely one of the sectors and we also like education.”  Waha acquired an initial 20 percent stake in Aercap in a
2010 transaction valued at $380 million. The firm now has a 26.3
percent stake valued at $492.2 million, according to the $16.51
closing share price of New York-listed Aercap on May 10.  Mubadala Development Company PJSC, an Abu Dhabi sovereign
investment company, owns a 15.4 percent stake in  Waha Capital (WAHA) ,
according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Abu Dhabi at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  