-- Warriors Tie NBA Playoff Series by Beating Spurs in Overtime
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/warriors-beat-spurs-97-87-in-overtime-to-tie-nba-playoff-series.html
The Golden State Warriors pulled away
from the San Antonio Spurs for a 97-87 overtime win that tied
their National Basketball Association Western Conference
semifinal playoff series at two games apiece.  Harrison Barnes scored 26 points for the Warriors, who
erased a six-point deficit in the final 3 1/2 minutes of the
fourth quarter and outscored the Spurs 13-3 during the five-minute overtime at Oracle Arena in Oakland,  California .  Barnes and Jarrett Jack had a combined 50 points for the
Warriors with leading scorer Stephen Curry limited by an ankle
injury. Curry finished with 22 points for Golden State, which
had lost its previous four overtime NBA playoff games.  “This team will not quit,” Warriors coach Mark Jackson
said at a news conference. “It looked awfully dark, but we
found a way to get stops and to make plays.”  The best-of-seven series now heads back to San Antonio for
Game 5 tomorrow.  The defending NBA-champion Miami Heat return to action
tonight as they visit the Chicago Bulls in Game 4 of their
Eastern Conference semifinal. The Heat have won the past two
games after losing the series opener and Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau was fined $35,000 by the NBA yesterday for comments he
made criticizing the officiating following Game 3.  Also today, the Memphis Grizzlies host the Oklahoma City
Thunder in Game 4 of their Western Conference series. The
Grizzlies have won the past two games for a 2-1 series lead over
the Thunder, the top seed in the West.  Warriors Rally  The Warriors, in danger of falling behind 3-1 in their
series, got four points apiece from Jack and Klay Thompson in
the final 3:27 of the fourth quarter to erase an 82-76 deficit.  Both teams had chances to take the lead in the closing
seconds of the fourth quarter, with the score tied 84-84. Manu Ginobili missed an open three-pointer for the Spurs with 20
seconds left, while Jack missed an 18-foot jump shot with two
seconds remaining.  The Warriors then scored the first nine points in overtime,
opening a 93-84 lead as the Spurs missed seven straight shots.
Barnes and Jack combined to score eight of Golden State’s 13
points in overtime.  “Barnes and Jack were tremendous,” Spurs coach Gregg Popovich said at a news conference. “They got the job done for
them. Usually the playoffs, teams that win, have other people
step up at some point in a series. Those two guys did it in
really fine fashion.”  Ginobili scored 21 points to lead the Spurs, who were held
to 35.5 percent shooting, while Tim Duncan finished with 19
points and 15 rebounds. San Antonio was outrebounded 65-51.  “In overtime, we just stopped scoring,” Ginobili said.
“We kept running the same plays, our usual stuff, and it just
didn’t fall. They made every shot in overtime. In a game that it
so close and so tight, that ends up being the difference.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  