-- Yale, Notre Dame, North Carolina, Denver Win in NCAA Lacrosse
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-12T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-12/yale-notre-dame-north-carolina-denver-win-in-ncaa-lacrosse.html
Colin Flaherty scored three goals to
lead  Yale University  to a 10-7 victory over eighth-seeded
 Pennsylvania State University  in the national men’s college
lacrosse championship.  In other first-round National Collegiate Athletic
Association games yesterday, fifth-seeded North Carolina routed
Lehigh 16-7, No. 2 Notre Dame defeated Detroit 9-7 and fourth-seeded Denver topped Albany 19-14.  In today’s games, top-seeded Syracuse meets Bryant, No. 3
Ohio State plays Towson, sixth-seeded Maryland takes on Cornell
and No. 7 Duke plays Loyola of Maryland in their first-round
contests.  Conrad Oberbeck added two goals for the Bulldogs, who will
play top-seeded Syracuse or Bryant in the quarterfinals May 18.  T.J. Sanders led the Nittany Lions with two goals on their
home field in University Park, Pennsylvania.  North Carolina ’s Chad Hutton and Jimmy Bitter contributed
three goals each, while Patrick Corbett and David DiMaria had
two goals apiece for Lehigh at  Chapel Hill , North Carolina.  North Carolina will play in the May 19 quarterfinals
against Denver.  Denver’s Wesley Berg scored eight goals, and Cameron Flint
and Eric Law each added four on their home field at Peter Barton
Stadium.  Lyle Thompson had four and Ty Thompson scored three goals
for Albany.  Matt Kavanaugh’s four goals propelled Notre Dame to the
quarterfinals where the Fighting Irish will play Duke or Loyola
of Maryland on May 19. Sean Rogers and Conor Doyle added two
goals apiece on their home field in  Notre Dame , Indiana.  Brandon Beauregard had three goals and Alex Maini added two
for Detroit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net 
NI CLACROSSE
NI NCAA
NI SPORTS 