-- 
‘Absolutely Not True’ U.S. Withheld Volt Defect, LaHood Says

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-12-08T21:53:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/-absolutely-not-true-u-s-withheld-volt-defect-lahood-says.html
U.S. auto-safety investigators needed
time to determine if a  General Motors Co. (GM)  Chevrolet Volt or
another vehicle was the source of a fire after a May crash test,
which is why they didn’t immediately disclose the information,
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said.  It’s “absolutely not true” that the  National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration  withheld information about the
electric car’s safety, LaHood told reporters today in
Washington, when asked about criticism from Congress members
including Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican.  “We have opened an investigation into battery-related
fires that may occur some time after a severe crash,” LaHood
said. “Chevy Volt owners can be confident that their cars are
safe to drive.”  GM, which has made the Volt one of the centerpieces of its
U.S. marketing, has offered loaner cars or to buy back Volts
from owners concerned about safety. The Volt has been on the
U.S. market for a year and went on sale in all 50 states in
October. Detroit-based GM sold 6,142 Volts this year through
November.  Issa today asked GM Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson to
answer a series of questions on the Volt’s “battery system
safety deficiencies” and when it discovered there was the
possibility of fires.  Toyota Analogy  “As you may remember, there was considerable public
outrage when Toyota Motor Corp. delayed disclosing faulty
accelerator pedal concerns in an attempt to further study the
problem,” Issa wrote. His committee held a hearing in February
2010 at which Toyota President  Akio Toyoda  testified about the
automaker’s record recalls.  LaHood’s agency last month disclosed that a Volt caught
fire three weeks after being crash-tested at a NHTSA test
facility on May 12. U.S. regulators opened an investigation Nov.
25 into the safety of the Volt’s lithium-ion batteries, which
are supplied by Seoul-based  LG Chem Ltd. (051910)   NHTSA isn’t investigating  Nissan Motor (7201)  Co.’s Leaf or  Tesla
Motors Inc. (TSLA) ’s Roadster, both of which have lithium-ion
batteries.  Crash-Test Rating  Issa also was one of three U.S. House members who sent a
letter yesterday to NHTSA Administrator  David Strickland  saying
regulators “deliberately suppressed public knowledge of the
safety risk posed by the Chevrolet Volt’s lithium-ion battery
system.”  A subcommittee of the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, headed by Issa, plans a hearing on the matter in late
January.  LaHood and Strickland declined to comment on whether the
Volt should retain its top crash-safety rating from the U.S. and
on what investigators have found so far.  “As soon as we have additional information on our testing
and on our investigation, we’ll disclose it,” LaHood said.
Regulators announced the Volt investigation the end of Nov. 25,
the day after the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  