-- 
Maersk Oil May Release Results of Angola Well Within a Month

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-12-08T16:27:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/maersk-oil-may-release-results-of-angola-well-within-a-month.html
Maersk Oil, Scandinavia’s second-
largest producer, will release the results of the first so-
called pre-salt well drilled in the Kwanza Basin off  Angola 
within a month, the company’s chief executive officer said.  “We are still evaluating the results,” Jakob Thomasen
said in an interview in Doha, Qatar today.  The company plans to drill wells in two more of its
offshore Angolan blocks next year, he said. Drilling pre-salt
wells is technically challenging because the deposits lie below
a layer of salt two kilometers thick.  Maersk is evaluating the results of a pre-salt well drilled
off  Brazil  in a block operated by BP Plc and the company expects
another well to be drilled next year off Brazil in the Anadarko
Petroleum Corp.-operated Wahoo field, he said.  Energy companies are seeking to extract oil and gas from
increasingly difficult locations and from substances such as
hard to break rock as opportunities to tap conventional energy
resources dwindle and world demand increases.  “We have a lot of experience in tight oil,” Thomasen
said. “The neighborhood we are brought up in, that’s tight
oil.”  The company plans to drill as many as 200 wells in the
Dunga Field in  Kazakhstan , “an extremely challenging
reservoir” akin to extracting oil from shale rock, Thomasen
said. Maersk may also drill in three or four years in the icy
waters off  Greenland .  Exploration Investment  Maersk’s production output of 350,000 barrrels a day will
fall for a “couple of years” before rising to 400,000 barrels
as the company expands output in the U.K., Kazakhstan, Brazil
and the  Gulf of Mexico , Thomasen said. The decline will occur
because the company didn’t invest enough in the past to keep
production levels even, he said. Maersk plans to invest about $1
billion a year in exploration, he said.  The company in June agreed to invest $1 billion in the U.K.
 North Sea ’s Golden Eagle field, which has an estimated 150
million barrels of resources. Last year, Copenhagen-based Maersk
Oil bought SK Energy Co.’s Brazilian oil unit for $2.4 billion
and a 25 percent stake in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico Jack field for
$300 million from  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)   The company is discussing with state-run Qatar Petroleum
further development of the Al-Shaheen field after completing a
2005 development plan, Thomasen said. Qatar, the company’s
biggest single source of production, produced about 154,000
barrels a day, the CEO said in October.  “We believe there are a lot of opportunities for a company
like ours,” Thomasen said today. “We are in the really good
street addresses of the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  