-- 
Affymax Rises After Winning Panel’s Backing for Anemia Drug

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-12-08T14:42:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/affymax-rises-after-winning-panel-s-backing-for-anemia-drug.html
Affymax Inc. (AFFY)  surged the most in 16
months after winning a U.S. advisory panel’s backing for an
experimental anemia medicine that would compete with treatments
marketed by  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  and  Johnson & Johnson. (JNJ)   Affymax gained 26 percent to $7.41 at 9:40 a.m.  New York 
time, after earlier reaching $7.47 for the biggest intraday
increase since August 2010. The shares had fallen 12 percent
this year before today. The medicine would be  Palo Alto ,
California-based Affymax’s first product if it gains regulatory
approval for patients with chronic kidney disease.  The benefits of the drug, known as peginesatide, outweigh
potential heart risks, outside advisers to the Food and Drug
Administration said yesterday in a 15-1 vote in  Silver Spring ,
Maryland. The FDA isn’t required to follow the advisory panels’
recommendations.  “Christmas came a little early this year,” Chris Raymond,
an analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co., wrote in a research note
today. “We view approval as significantly de-risked,” and
“remain buyers.”  If approved, the therapy would compete with Amgen’s Epogen,
which generated $2.5 billion in revenue last year, and J&J’s
Procrit, with 2010 sales of $1.9 billion. Affymax’s medicine
works as well as those treatments and had “similar safety
results” for people on dialysis, the patient group for whom
Affymax seeks approval, FDA staff said Dec. 5 in a report.  “We don’t have a reason to say no to this drug in the
dialysis setting,” Wyndham Wilson, the panel chairman, said
after the vote. Wilson is chief of lymphoma therapeutics at the
National Cancer Institute’s Center for Cancer Research, in
Rockville,  Maryland .  Boost Production  Peginesatide, like Epogen, Procrit and Amgen’s Aranesp, is
part of a class of drugs known as erythropoiesis-stimulating
agents that boost production of red blood cells.  The FDA recommended in June that doctors use the lowest
possible doses of the agents because of potential heart risks.
The agency in 2006 first warned that high doses of the anemia
drugs may cause heart attacks and strokes.  Peginesatide proved noninferior to Epogen, Procrit and
Aranesp in late-stage clinical trials and had similar risks of
death, stroke and heart attacks in dialysis patients, Affymax
said yesterday in presentations to the panel. The trials
consisted of 2,609 patients.  Last Longer  Peginesatide’s effects last longer than approved
treatments, making it more convenient and less expensive to
administer, according to Affymax’s September quarterly report.
The drug can used once a month, compared with an initial dose of
three times weekly for Epogen.  Affymax is co-commercializing peginesatide in the U.S. with
Osaka, Japan-based  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502)   Amgen, of Thousand Oaks, California, signed a seven-year
agreement with dialysis provider  DaVita Inc. (DVA)  of Denver to
replace a deal expiring Dec. 31 that will meet at least 90
percent of DaVita’s requirements to treat anemia,  William
Tanner , an analyst with Lazard Capital Markets in New York, said
Nov. 18 in a note to clients.  Amgen also signed a nonexclusive agreement with  Fresenius
Medical Care (FME)  AG for an undisclosed number of years, Tanner said.
Fresenius, based in Bad Homburg, Germany, and DaVita are the
largest dialysis providers respectively by annual revenue.  “With Amgen’s recent exclusive DaVita contract and
partnership with Fresenius, about 70 percent of the market
appears locked up,” Raymond wrote today. “We would point out
30 percent isn’t, and we’d be very surprised if various out-
clauses did not exist, which may be increasingly relevant if
Affymax prices this drug at a discount.”  Medicare, the U.S. health program for the elderly and
disabled, began this year reimbursing for all services
associated with end-stage  kidney disease  in one bundled payment
to attempt to save money.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  