-- 
Thailand Equity Movers: Quality Houses, Supalai, Thai Airways

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-12-08T09:50:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/thailand-equity-movers-supalai-thai-airways-international.html
Shares of the following companies had
unusual moves in Thailand  trading. (SET)  Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the close in Bangkok.  The SET Index dropped 0.3 percent to 1,043.24, halting a
seven-day, 8.2 percent rally.  Quality Houses Pcl (QH)  , a property developer, fell 1.9
percent to 1.54 baht, bringing a two-day decline to 3.8 percent.
Quality Houses has received no contact from Siam Cement Pcl,
which was reported to have shown interest in buying the
company’s stake in  Home Product Center Pcl (HMPRO) , it said in
regulatory filing yesterday. Quality Houses owns 17 percent of
Home Product, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Home Product (HMPRO TB), a retailer of home improvement
hardware, lost 4.4 percent to 10.9 baht, the most since Oct. 3.  Supalai Pcl (SPALI)  , a Thai property developer, climbed
3 percent to 13.9 baht, the highest close since Sept. 21. The
company was rated “outperform” in new coverage by Chai
Techakumpuch, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, who cited
the stock’s “high returns to shareholders.” The analyst has a
share-price estimate of 16.3 baht.  Thai Airways International Pcl (THAI)  , the nation’s
largest carrier, gained 2.3 percent to 22.2 baht, the highest
close since Sept. 23. Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. and its
partners, including Thai Airways and Ryanthai Ltd., decided not
to proceed with setting up a venture in Thailand after failing
to acquire approvals from the Thai authorities, the Singapore-
based carrier said in a regulatory filing.  Thai Airways  plans to begin flights of its new budget
airline Thai Smiles in July, the company said in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  