-- 
Alex Ferguson Set for a New Experience After 25 Years at Manchester United

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-12-08T01:46:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/alex-ferguson-set-for-a-new-experience-after-25-years-at-manchester-united.html
After 25 years as manager of
 Manchester United ,  Alex Ferguson  is about to experience
something new.  United last night lost 2-1 to Basel to exit European
soccer’s Champions League at the group stage for the first time
since the 2005-06 season. By finishing third in its pool, United
drops into the second-tier Europa League for the first time
since the tournament replaced the UEFA Cup two years ago.  “We let ourselves down badly,” Ferguson, 69, told
reporters after the defeat in  Switzerland . “That’s our penalty
for not qualifying.”  Since Ferguson became coach on Nov. 6, 1986, United has
played two ties in the UEFA Cup and lost them both. Torpedo
Moscow won a first-round tie 4-3 on penalties in 1992 and four
years later SC Rotor Volgograd went through on away goals after
drawing 2-2 at United’s Old Trafford stadium in the second game
of the series.  Since then, Ferguson’s only involvement in European soccer
has been at the elite  Champions League  level. The club won the
tournament in 1999 and again in 2008 and has been a finalist in
three of the past four years including last year, when it was
runner-up to Barcelona.  Ferguson said his team’s attempts to retain the English
league title and log a record-extending 20th national
championship may be hampered because Europa League games are
played on Thursdays, meaning Premier League fixtures will be
pushed back to Sundays.  League Standings  “It’s a competition I’ve never been in at United and it
does mean one thing -- Sundays right through,” Ferguson said.
“Thursdays and Sundays. That’s got to be dealt with.”  Manchester City  leads the Premier League with 38 points
through 14 of 38 games, with United five points back in second
place. The rivals may meet in the Europa League after City also
finished third in its group.  United will be seeking to win the second-tier title for a
first time. In addition to its three European crowns, it also
won the defunct Cup Winners’ Cup and the Super Cup in 1991, and
the FIFA World Club Cup in 2008. Under Ferguson, the Red Devils
also have won the English league 12 times, the F.A. Cup five
times and the English League Cup four times.  “It’s embarrassing to be in the Europa League,” United
defender  Patrice Evra  told reporters. “We should have woken up
earlier in this competition. We deserve to be out.”  Early Lapses  After beginning the tournament with a draw at Benfica,
United had to score in the final minute of its second group game
to secure a 3-3 draw at home against Basel after giving up a 2-0
halftime lead.  United then beat Otelul Galati twice before drawing again
at home with Benfica, leaving it needing to avoid defeat last
night in Switzerland to advance to the round of 16 at the
expense of Basel.  United fell behind after nine minutes, when Basel captain
Marco Streller scored from Xherdan Shaqiri’s cross at St. Jakob-
Park.  United came close to tying it in the second half when
Markus Steinhofer’s clearance of a Nani cross crashed off the
crossbar.  Alexander Frei added Basel’s second goal in the 84th
minute, before  Phil Jones  scored for United four minutes later.  “Tactically, mentally, physically, everything worked
right,” Basel coach Heiko Vogel, who joined in October after
Thorsten Fink left for Hamburg, told reporters. “I’m very
proud.”  United had 57 percent of possession and had 21 shots to 11
by the Swiss champion.  “We had so much possession of the ball and so many really
good opportunities in the last third of the field,” Ferguson
said. “We let ourselves down with the finishing.”  To add to Ferguson’s disappointment, United defender and
captain Nemanja Vidic left the field on a stretcher shortly
before halftime with a knee injury.  “We think it’s the medial ligament,” Ferguson said.
“Hopefully that’s the worst of it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 