-- 
An Asset-Pricing Model for the Contagion Age: Polson and Scott

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   G .   P o l s o n   a n d   J a m e s   G .   S c o t t
-- 
2011-12-08T00:01:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/an-asset-pricing-model-for-contagion-age-commentary-by-polson-and-scott.html
The financial crisis and the meltdown
in  Europe  have exposed the deficiencies of traditional asset-
pricing models, particularly their inability to account for the
effect of contagion from one market to another. The good news is
that the length and the persistence of the turmoil have given
researchers a trove of data to develop new predictive tools.  In our work, we developed an  asset-pricing model  to study
these market disruptions, which incorporates random shocks to
volatility that are correlated across markets. It provides a
more accurate way to evaluate contagion, defined as the extent
to which shocks from one market affect another over and above
the level implied by the underlying asset-pricing model.  As an example of the volatility and correlation observed
during the financial crisis, consider the movements in  Germany ’s
 DAX Index (DAX)  and the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  from July through
early October 2011. The DAX fell 30 percent, to 5,216 on Oct. 4,
from a high of 7,402 at the beginning of July. Over the same
period, the S&P fell 20 percent, to 1,075, from 1,340; meanwhile
the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, known as
the VIX, increased to 45.5 percent, from 15 percent.  Over the subsequent month and a half, volatility remained
persistently higher than traditional asset-pricing models would
have predicted, even though returns stabilized. The large drops
in the DAX and  S&P 500  reflect increases in the underlying
asset-return volatilities. This is also directly observed in the
increase in the  VIX. (VIX)   VIX Spike  Moreover, one can see the fat-tailed nature of the
distribution of volatility in the daily movements. For example,
on Nov. 10, after markets had stabilized somewhat, the VIX index
spiked to above 36 percent, from 28 percent, an intraday move of
more than 8 percent.  This episode captures the three facts about global markets
that any asset-pricing model must now address:  -- A large shock in asset returns in one market predicts
large shocks to other markets. This is cross-sectional
clustering of shocks, which some researchers call “meteor
shower” volatility.  -- A large shock in asset prices today predicts further
large, mean-reverting, shocks tomorrow. This is a time-series or
self-exciting clustering effect in volatility.  -- A large shock to aggregate market volatility predicts
specific, directional clustering of country-level returns.
Allowing for the effect of directional volatility is important
for measuring contagion in markets.  Our asset-pricing model incorporates three volatility
effects: cross-sectional clustering across countries (or
markets), longitudinal clustering across time and directional
clustering. These aren’t part of traditional models.  Cross-sectional clustering accounts for the observation
that large market movements in one region seem to increase the
chances of observing a large movement in another, beyond what
would be predicted by traditional asset-pricing models.  Longitudinal clustering allows volatility shocks to persist
over time, a well-known feature of such phenomena.  Directional clustering captures the fact that shocks in one
market are often followed by shocks in a particular direction in
another. That is, the event in the first market can be used to
help predict the return in the other market. Our analysis finds
that directional clustering has the greatest impact in
predicting contagion between markets.  Fat-Tails  Our analysis  allows the distribution of volatility during
disruptive periods to have fat-tails. This is a characteristic
that has long been recognized in the distribution of asset
returns. Fat-tailed distributions, in contrast to a normal (or
Gaussian) distribution, have greater probability for values
further away from the average; fat-tailed distributions will
have more extreme volatility movements than one would predict
with the assumption of standard normality.  The inclusion of fat-tails has implications for the way
contagion between markets is measured. Because contagion is the
excess correlation between asset returns, it can only be
properly evaluated if one begins with an asset pricing that
incorporates fat-tailed volatility.  We now have ample data to test traditional models of
returns and volatility thanks to the financial crisis and the
debt turmoil in Europe. These events also have renewed interest
in asset-pricing models as a method for measuring contagion
effects across markets.  New models are needed to replace the old ones, whose
simplistic assumptions about volatility cannot capture the
current complex environment.  (Nicholas G. Polson is professor of econometrics and
statistics at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business
and a contributor to  Business Class .  James G. Scott  is assistant
professor of statistics at the McCombs School of Business at the
 University of Texas  at Austin. The opinions expressed are their
own.)  To contact the writers of this article:
Nicholas G. Polson at  Nicholas.polson@chicagobooth.edu ;
James G. Scott at  james.scott@mccombs.utexas.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net . 