-- 
Anti-Piracy Role Added to U.S. Trade Agency in Draft Bill

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-12-08T19:40:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/anti-piracy-role-added-to-u-s-trade-agency-under-draft-measure.html
U.S. lawmakers unveiled draft
legislation that would give the International Trade Commission
the lead role in fighting foreign websites trafficking in
illegal content and counterfeit goods.  The draft bill, released today by Senator  Ron Wyden , an
Oregon Democrat, and Representative  Darrell Issa , a California
Republican, is meant as an alternative to Hollywood-backed anti-
piracy legislation under consideration by the House and Senate.  Those measures pit the movie and music industries, which
want a stronger crackdown on online piracy, against  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
Facebook Inc. and other Web companies that say the bills may
ensnare legitimate websites and threaten the growth of the U.S.
technology industry.  The draft bill released by Wyden and Issa, called the
Online Protection and Enforcement of Digital Trade Act, lets
U.S. intellectual-property owners petition the trade agency to
investigate foreign websites linked to piracy.  Under the bill, the commission may issue cease-and-desist
orders against foreign websites that “primarily” and
“willfully” engage in copyright infringement. Those orders
could be used to force U.S.-based payment and advertising
companies to stop providing services to such sites, according to
the draft.  “Building on the International Trade Commission’s existing
IP expertise and authority makes it possible to go after
legitimate cases of IP abuse without doing irreparable harm to
the Internet,” Wyden said in a statement.  Hollywood-Backed Bills  The Wyden-Issa proposal contrasts with Hollywood-backed
anti-piracy bills that were introduced this year and have
multiple co-sponsors from both parties. Those measures would let
the U.S.  Justice Department  seek court orders forcing Internet-
service providers,  search engines , payment services and
advertising networks to block or cease business with foreign
websites linked to piracy.  The Hollywood-backed measure in the House, the Stop Online
Piracy Act, also would give intellectual-property owners,
through private action and in court, the ability to push U.S.
payment processors and online-advertising services to stop doing
business with foreign websites.  Representative  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican and chairman
of the House Judiciary Committee, has said he plans to hold a
committee vote before year-end on the Stop Online Piracy Act,
which he introduced.  Google, Facebook and other Web companies said in a Nov. 15
letter that the House and Senate measures would create “new
uncertain liabilities” for Internet companies and asked
lawmakers to seek “more targeted ways” to combat “rogue”
websites in other countries.  ITC Role  NetCoalition, a technology-industry group representing
Google, Yahoo Inc. and EBay Inc., supports having the ITC handle
copyright and trademark infringement cases against foreign
websites, Markham Erickson, the group’s executive director, said
in an interview this week. The Washington-based group’s members
include Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News.  Studio executives expressed concern today in an interview
at Bloomberg’s Washington office that the trade commission isn’t
equipped to take on enforcement.  “It’s a body that is not prepared for the task and is too
unwieldy and would take too long to solve the problem,” said
Jim Gianopulos, chief executive officer of Fox Filmed
Entertainment Inc.  “We frankly view it as delaying and obfuscating the
issue,” Barry Meyer, chairman and CEO of Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc., said of the ITC proposal. “There is a
process that works right now” using the U.S. court system.  Soliciting Comments  The alternative bill from Wyden and Issa is still in draft
form and may be introduced as legislation within a week,
Jennifer Hoelzer, a spokeswoman for Wyden, said in an interview.
The draft bill has been posted on a  website  to solicit comments
and feedback.  The measure would authorize the ITC to collect fees from
complainants to pay for piracy investigations and expand the
agency’s ability to hire the personnel needed to carry out the
bill’s provisions, Hoelzer said. The commission has been asked
for “technical feedback” on the draft bill, she said.  The agency has the power to block imports of products found
to infringe intellectual-property rights. It’s at the center of
patent battles over smartphone technology and is investigating
allegations of unfair trade practices by  China  in the solar-
panel industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  