-- 
Harrisburg’s Receiver Wants Help Filling Debt Hole From Those Who Dug It

-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-12-08T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/harrisburg-s-receiver-wants-help-filling-debt-hole-from-those-who-dug-it.html
David Unkovic, the receiver for
 Pennsylvania ’s insolvent capital of  Harrisburg , wants the people
who helped create the debt to assist in its elimination.  A former bond lawyer from the Philadelphia suburb of
Wynnewood, Unkovic faces a Jan. 3 deadline to develop a recovery
plan for Harrisburg, which owes a sum five times its general-
fund budget. Residents need to know who brought them to this
point, Unkovic said in an interview in Harrisburg, “and they
will.”  “You need to factor in the actions they took,” he said.
That will set “what their level of responsibility is for
helping to come up with a solution.”  Unkovic, 57, is  Pennsylvania ’s first municipal receiver.
The state joins  Michigan ,  Rhode Island  and  New York  in asserting
greater control over municipal affairs, signaling more
willingness from states to act when threatened by higher
borrowing costs and the collapse of cities.  Five days after Republican Governor Tom Corbett nominated
him, Unkovic told firms involved in the debt Harrisburg incurred
for an incinerator project to preserve their documents, and has
asked lawyers to aid a forensic audit of the bond deals.  “He’s the first person committed to have the whole story
laid out,” said Neil Grover, a lawyer and founder of Debt Watch
Harrisburg, which opposes the receivership law. Even if no one
faces legal action, “if they crossed the line, at the least the
public would be aware of that.”  Past and Present  Unkovic, who kept a typewriter and antique desk in his
office at Philadelphia’s Cozen O’Connor law firm, appreciates
history, said Suzanne Mayes, a lawyer who worked with him there.
“Dave is of the school that you can learn a lot about a current
challenge by knowing what happened,” she said.  Harrisburg, a city of 49,500 on the Susquehanna River, in
2003 overhauled a trash-to-energy plant that was violating
environmental regulations. While now operating near capacity,
the facility doesn’t generate enough revenue to pay the debt,
which grew after the first contractor, Barlow Projects Inc., was
dismissed, and  Covanta Holdings Corp. (CVR)  was hired to complete the
work. The financing contained no performance bond to protect the
city, which Unkovic called unusual.  Harrisburg started skipping payments in 2009 and owes $310
million, including penalties to bond insurer  Assured Guaranty
Municipal (AGO)  and surrounding Dauphin County, which backed some of
the debt after the city failed to meet its obligations.  Breaking the Logjam  Harrisburg, where 29 percent of residents live in poverty,
almost defaulted on general-obligation bonds this year and last,
and struggled to cover its payroll and fill sinkholes.  Mayor  Linda Thompson  and the City Council disagreed on
solutions, and the panel voted 4-3 for a bankruptcy that was
later thrown out of court. Amid the standoff, legislators
empowered Corbett to name a receiver. On Nov. 18 he nominated
Unkovic, and a state court approved his two-year term Dec. 2.  The receiver is contacting creditors, elected officials,
and groups such as Debt Watch Harrisburg. He plans to answer
questions at a Dec. 19 public meeting and establish a website
for comments, he said.  “I want to be as open to people as I can,” said Unkovic,
who doesn’t need elected officials’ consent to act.  Thompson said she was confident she would support Unkovic’s
plans because the two have met regularly.  “I’m not relegated to the side,” she said. “He’s really
getting my input.”  Harrisburg Controller Dan Miller said he was surprised by
Unkovic’s outreach.  “He did not come off as a slick corporate attorney trying
to impress me with flash and dash,” Miller said in a phone
call. “I feel comfortable with him.”  Plunging In  The approach is familiar to people who know him. Unkovic
has volunteered for  Philadelphia VIP , which provides poor
residents with legal services, for a quarter-century. He spent
more than 100 hours working on a mix-up involving delinquent
taxes that jeopardized a woman’s home, said Executive Director
Sara Woods.  “Dave is willing to take on our hard cases, those that
aren’t pretty,” Woods said. “He’s not afraid of a challenge,
which will help him in Harrisburg.”  The son of a lawyer and a homemaker, Unkovic was the fourth
of six children raised in the North Hills suburbs of Pittsburgh.
Attending North Catholic High School in the city’s Troy Hill
neighborhood, he could smell soup being made at the  H.J. Heinz
Co. (HNZ)  plant nearby, he said. He played first base in American
Legion Baseball; he would later play softball for his law firms
wielding an old-fashioned wooden bat.  ‘Terrible Litigator’  Unkovic got his law degree from  Harvard University  in 1979
after majoring in political science at the  University of
Pennsylvania . At Saul Ewing LLP in Philadelphia, he decided he
was a “terrible litigator” and focused on public finance,
later moving to PFM Asset Management LLC and Cozen.  Unkovic entered Corbett’s administration in July as general
counsel for the Community and Economic Development Department.  His career aroused suspicion in people including  Mark
Schwartz , the Harrisburg council’s bankruptcy attorney.  “There are inherent problems” with Unkovic’s receivership
since he has worked for clients involved in Harrisburg bond
deals and former firms have represented creditors, Schwartz
said. At a hearing Dec. 1, Unkovic told the judge who approved
his appointment that he had no conflicts of interest.  Unkovic, who stays in a Harrisburg apartment and returns on
weekends to Wynnewood, said he volunteered for this job.  “I just felt very strongly that this problem could get
solved, and I’d like to participate in helping get it done,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  