-- 
Masdar City Offers Vision of Carbon-Neutral Future Amid Delays, Storms

-- B y   P e t e r   S a v o d n i k
-- 
2011-12-08T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/masdar-city-a-vision-of-a-greener-future-or-emirati-excess-.html
From the air,  Masdar City  looks like a
giant microchip embedded in the gray-brown desert just outside
Abu Dhabi. Masdar, which began construction in 2006, was
conceived as a carbon-neutral utopia.  Only a few hundred people currently live in Masdar City.
When it’s finished, between 2025 and 2030, the development will
encompass 2.3 square miles (5.9 square kilometers). Almost
88,000 solar panels will power a sprawling mesh of condominium
blocks, laboratories, parks, gyms, and cafes.  There will be a mosque, and unmanned cars will shuttle
everyone around on magnetic tracks. Some 40,000 people will live
on site; 50,000 more will commute there daily from across the
 United Arab Emirates . Administrative headquarters will look like
a nuclear reactor with a wavelike roof and surrounded by trees.  Most residents will be very healthy: Buildings have been
outfitted with hard-to-miss staircases and out-of-the-way
elevators to encourage walking. Masdar City’s excess energy --
there will be a lot of that, since everyone will be
environmentally conscious -- will be sold to less energy-
efficient countries such as  Saudi Arabia .  Everyone behind Masdar City, starting with Sheikh Khalifa,
President of the U.A.E., says it will be a model of
sustainability for the whole world, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Dec. 12 edition.  At least, that’s the plan. Like most utopias, Masdar is at
risk of becoming a punch line. It is, after all, premised on a
paradox: a green-tinted dream imported to a place made rich by
fossil fuels.  Urban Excess  Sure, there’s a great deal of sun; those sleek, driverless
pods are now operational; and there is already an organic food
store on the main square.  So far, Masdar City is shaping up to be the latest Emirati
exercise in urban excess. Like the Palm Islands of Dubai, it’s
an entirely inorganic show of oil-derived wealth.  The story of Masdar City begins in 2006, when  Abu Dhabi 
announced plans for a self-sustaining city that would transform
not only global energy markets but also the way cities around
the world are designed.  It would bring together state and private investment. (The
Abu Dhabi Future Energy Co., which is building Masdar, is a
subsidiary of Mubadala Development Co., which is controlled by
the Abu Dhabi government.) It would be the future before the
future happened.  Completion Delayed  The future has been delayed somewhat. First there was the
global downturn, which prompted officials this year to slash
their $22 billion budget by 15 percent and push back the Masdar
completion date by almost a decade.  Now there’s a concern that the utopian vision may not be so
utopian: In 2007, when Masdar’s master plan was drafted, the
construction was expected to function on its own grid, though
even that promising first step has fallen short -- the
development is now hooked up to the public system.  Plus, the occasional sandstorm leaves solar panels coated
with dust and thus inoperable, which jacks up water use and
maintenance expenses.  The Emiratis’ environmental aspirations are either absurdly
hypocritical or long overdue, or maybe both. According to the
World Wildlife Federation’s Living Planet Report 2010, the
U.A.E. has the largest per capita carbon footprint on the globe,
edging out nearby  Qatar . (The U.S. comes in fifth, behind,
weirdly, Denmark and  Belgium .)  No Model  Geoffrey M. Heal, a Columbia University Business School
professor who has studied environmental economics, says Masdar
is hardly a model for others. Few places enjoy as much year-
round sunlight as the  Persian Gulf , where summertime
temperatures often soar past 110 degrees Fahrenheit.  John Felmy ,
the  American Petroleum Institute ’s chief economist, adds that
even if solar energy were cheap and abundant everywhere, that
wouldn’t do much to reduce global dependence on fossil fuels.  “Everyone forgets that when you’re talking about solar
power you’re talking about electricity,” Felmy says. “Very
little electricity is generated by oil. Solar power is not going
to affect the energy market unless you have a fleet of electric-
powered cars.”  This has done nothing to dampen enthusiasm for Masdar City
in Abu Dhabi or Dubai, where business leaders are reluctant to
question government policy.  Meet Target  Ida Tillisch, director general of the Emirates Wildlife
Society, says the Masdar Initiative, a research institute at
Masdar City, will help Abu Dhabi reach its renewable energy goal
of 7 percent by 2020. By 2030, Abu Dhabi could reduce its
carbon-dioxide emissions by 40 percent, she says.  Initiatives such as Masdar City, Tillisch says, “highlight
the need to undertake cutting-edge environmental researching,
develop innovative policies, and take action in support of
reducing the country’s ecological footprint.”  If nothing else, Masdar City is helping the U.A.E. rebrand
itself as a forward-looking, socially responsible hub of
greenness -- part of the U.A.E.’s campaign to increase foreign
direct investment.  Mounir Harfouche, head of the U.A.E. branch of the
advertising firm Lowe + Partners, says Masdar “will help Abu
Dhabi be the human capital of the region and the world.” Heal,
meanwhile, calls Masdar “a gimmick, a way of attracting
publicity and attention.”  For environmentalists, that’s not necessarily encouraging.
Should Masdar succeed in helping the U.A.E. attract more foreign
capital, it likely will be compelled to build more office parks,
five-star hotels, and fake islands. The malls and skyscrapers
and freeways will be eclipsed by construction cranes, and more
and more planeloads of Indian, Pakistani, and Sri Lankan workers
will be flown in to build the future. That will generate a great
deal of carbon dioxide.  Editors: Julian Sancton, Stephen Cunningham.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Savodnik via Julian Sancton at 
 jsancton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Julian Sancton in New York at 
 jsancton@bloomberg.net  