-- 
Australia’s Worst Jobs Growth in 15 Years Increases Prospect of Rate Cuts

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-12-08T04:13:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/australian-employers-unexpectedly-cut-payrolls-last-month-currency-drops.html
Australia  is headed for its worst
year of jobs growth in 15 years, boosting prospects central bank
Governor  Glenn Stevens  will extend interest-rate cuts into 2012
as inflation pressure eases.  Payrolls  gained 44,700 through the first 11 months of this
year, on pace for the smallest growth since 1996 after a record
362,300 increase in 2010, government data released today showed.
The report contrasted with figures yesterday showing the biggest
six-month gain in economic growth since March 2007.  The only Group of 10 economy to avoid the 2009 global
recession is ending the year with signs of slower growth as
 Europe ’s fiscal crisis and a stronger currency weigh on tourism,
retailers and manufacturers. The nation’s unemployment rate
advanced last month to 5.3 percent, matching the highest level
this year.  “There are clear signs that Aussie businesses are reining
in hiring,” said  Savanth Sebastian , a Sydney-based economist at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s largest lender.
“Jobs growth is now going backwards, adding to data showing
sluggish retail spending, a weak housing market and lackluster
activity in manufacturing, services and construction sectors.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia could enter 2012 with an
economy showing increased spare capacity that will reduce
consumer-price pressures. Stevens two days ago cited
“considerable turbulence” in financial markets and an
increased chance of a “further material slowing in global
growth” after the RBA’s first back-to-back rate reductions
since 2009.  Rates Expectations  Traders are pricing in a 32 percent chance Stevens will
lower borrowing costs by a half percentage-point at the RBA’s
next policy meeting on Feb. 7, interbank cash-rate futures
showed today. He reduced rates to 4.25 percent from 4.5 percent
on Dec. 6.  Payrolls fell by 6,300 in November from a month earlier,
the statistics bureau said in Sydney today. The median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of 22 economists was for a 10,000
advance.  The Australian dollar dropped 0.4 percent, the most in a
week, to $1.0252 from yesterday in  New York  and $1.0285 before
the data were released.  The number of  full-time jobs  plunged by 39,900 in November,
and part-time employment rose by 33,600, today’s report showed.
Australia’s participation rate, a measure of the working-age
population, fell to 65.5 percent in November from 65.6 percent a
month earlier, it showed.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s economists were the only
forecasters in the Bloomberg survey predicting an employment
decline in November.  Job Cuts  Australia’s unemployment rate is “still very low,”
Assistant Treasurer Bill Shorten told Bloomberg Television in an
interview after the data. “I’m sure there would be plenty of
European and North American jurisdictions that would like some
of these numbers.”  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , Australia’s biggest investment bank,
reduced headcount by 3 percent in the six months to Sept. 30,
the first reduction in 2 1/2 years. Chief Financial Officer Greg Ward told reporters Oct. 28 that the bank expects to find
“ongoing efficiencies” as it focuses on costs.  The RBA last month cut its forecasts for economic growth
and inflation for the next two years as turmoil abroad makes
domestic consumers wary about spending.  Reflecting those expectations, the currency has fallen 7.5
percent since it reached $1.1081 on July 27, the highest level
since it was freely floated in 1983.  Housing Market Weakens  Australia’s economy is being driven by a resource bonanza
as China and  India , two countries that account for more than a
third of the world’s population, increase demand for minerals
and energy.  Australian job notices were unchanged in November after
declining the previous four months, according to an  Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  report released this week.  Data last week showed Australian home-building approvals
plunged in October for a second straight month and retail sales
growth slowed. The number of permits granted to build or
renovate houses and apartments fell 10.7 percent from September,
when they dropped a revised 14.2 percent, the Dec. 1 report
showed. Retail sales in October gained 0.2 percent, half the
increase economists estimated.  Even so, Australia’s economy grew faster than estimated
last quarter on  consumer spending  and mining-driven investment.  Gross domestic product rose 1 percent in the three months
ended Sept. 30, after growing a revised 1.4 percent the prior
quarter, the fastest pace in four years, a Bureau of Statistics
report released in Sydney yesterday said. The median of 24
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for 0.8 percent growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  