-- 
Australian Dollar Weakens After Employers Unexpectedly Trimmed Workforce

-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-12-08T17:38:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/australian-dollar-weakens-after-employers-unexpectedly-trimmed-workforce.html
The Australian dollar fell against
most of its major counterparts after a report showed the
nation’s employers unexpectedly cut jobs last month.  The Aussie extended its drop after European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi damped speculation that the central would
expand its bond-buying role to stem the region’s debt crisis.
 New Zealand ’s dollar gained earlier even after its central bank
kept rates at a record low and said global conditions have
deteriorated.  “Full-time jobs dropped a lot,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a
strategist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “This will trigger
some concerns over the jobs market in  Australia  and, of course,
the economy. The Aussie dropped.”  The Australian dollar slid 1.1 percent to $1.0181 as of
12:37 p.m. in  New York  and lost 1 percent to 79.14 yen. New
Zealand’s currency dropped 0.9 percent to 77.29 U.S. cents after
earlier gaining as much as 0.9 percent and fell 0.8 percent to
60.09 yen.  Australian employers cut 6,300 workers in November from the
previous month, the statistics bureau said in Sydney today. That
compared with the median estimate for a 10,000 increase in a
Bloomberg News survey of 22 economists. The jobless rate rose to
5.3 percent.  Draghi said during a press conference in  Frankfurt  that he
was “kind of surprised by the implicit meaning” that was given
to his comments last week when he said the ECB could follow
faster fiscal union with “other elements.”  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand left its target interest
rate at 2.5 percent, and cut economic growth predictions. RBNZ
Governor Alan Bollard omitted any reference to future cash rate
increases, after commenting on such matters in statements in
October and September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  