-- 
Tax-Holiday Tricks Only Undermine Social Contract: Amity Shlaes

-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 
2011-12-08T00:20:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/tax-holiday-tricks-undermining-social-contract-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
Black Friday, and we were getting
ready to hop in the car and head to the outlet mall when the
phone rang. It was a pollster calling to interview us about the
nation’s collective splurge. If we answered just three questions
about the unpleasant topic of our politicians and the federal
debt, we’d get a free Caribbean cruise.  Transferable.  That polling company was patting itself on the back. Its
experts had figured out a way to get us not to hang up on the
interviewer for ruining the mood of Black Friday with debt talk.
Its bargain sounded fine, and visions of gifts to college-age
sons and daughters danced in our heads.  Until the woman on the phone conveyed the details. The trip
was short. You had to pay your own way to the pier in  Florida .
Plus, there were plenty of extras we’d have to cover, including,
of course, any gambling -- all of which we could pay for with
credit. We got it. A trick.  Two thoughts occurred to us as we went to the car: The
reward for willingness to talk about the country’s debt was an
opportunity to make  family debt  even greater, and we probably
didn’t want to talk to this company again.  A Poor Bargain  The same kind of poor bargain forms the basis of the plan
to extend the payroll-tax holiday under discussion in  Washington 
this month. In the name of making Americans feel less bad about
their situation now, lawmakers are proposing something that
sounds good, but will actually make our financial future worse.  Start with the basics. Social Security has never been sold
to Americans as a true tax or an entitlement. From 1935 on, it
has always been depicted as insurance with its own account --
not as part of the general budget. When President  Franklin Roosevelt  first signed Social Security into law, he used the
verb “to insure” on purpose. The law that regulates payments
isn’t called “entitlement funding” or “welfare”; it’s called the
Federal Insurance Contributions Act.  Of course, the government has often taken the cash from
 Social Security  and left IOUs, and the program is confronting
looming demographic challenges. But Social Security also
resembles a bank: It doesn’t have all the money it owes, but it
has always paid out in the past. Besides, it has a civic
benefit. Paying money in, and then getting it back later, has
taught Americans good things about savings and trust in
government.  That virtuous cycle could continue. Social Security
requires only a few reforms to stay solvent: raising the age at
which pensions start, slowing the growth in benefit levels, and
-- crucially -- ensuring that everyone pays the full amount due,
every year.  But those payments haven’t been happening lately. In the
name of economic emergency, lawmakers reduced Social Security
payments in 2011. That sent some people to the outlet mall, if
not on cruises. It also will almost certainly worsen Social
Security’s budgetary future.  The tax holiday is set to expire Jan. 1. Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid  and others are seeking to extend it for
another year. To pay for this, Democrats were planning to rely
on a surtax of something like 1.9 percent a year on income of
more than $1 million, which Reid said is “a tiny, tiny surtax.”  The justification here is that some economists believe that
getting cash into middle-class hands is best for growth. That’s
a dubious proposition: Even the “tiny, tiny surtax” will add to
the burden on the wealthy, which is already growing because of
coming increases in state income-tax rates. Tax them enough --
and we’re at that point -- and the rich won’t create jobs for
the workers after the payroll-tax holiday ends. The arrangement
becomes another trick, like a cruise with too many charges.  Troubling Civics Lesson  The more troubling feature of this proposal, though,
involves civics: You’re telling someone to forget about a bad
problem because that problem is someone else’s responsibility.
In other words, Social Security really isn’t insurance, it’s
just an entitlement. Shifting around the  budget numbers  to make
it look as though the Social Security trust fund won’t be
touched is simply part of the trick.  Republicans are also treating Social Security like an
entitlement. Their plan this week is to agree to a payroll-tax
holiday in exchange for a measure that could speed the
development of the Keystone XL oil pipeline. Keystone XL is an
important project and would help deliver economic growth. But
again, such a deal suggests that structural shortfalls can be
ignored if they’re fixed on paper. And that the federal
government will always be there to bail out programs challenged
by deficits.  Which program do Republicans suggest will pay for the
payroll-tax holiday of 2014?  History is in vogue these days -- President  Barack Obama 
just evoked  Theodore Roosevelt  and his “Square Deal” with
America in a speech Dec. 6 in  Kansas . The use of the word “deal”
is telling: Obama wants to strengthen government’s contract with
the people, just as  Newt Gingrich , in the 1990s, sought a
“Contract with America.” Payroll-tax holidays do the opposite:
They erode the contract.  Each time lawmakers negotiate a cynical fiscal deal full of
pretend holidays, they make the next deal -- square or round --
harder to seal. The best way to get public support for future
reforms is to surprise everyone by honoring at least one of the
old deals. Otherwise, it won’t be a pretty place we land in when
we return from that cruise.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  