-- Bank Warns of Major Canada Shock If Europe Crisis Worsens
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-06-14T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/bank-of-canada-sees-high-risk-to-financial-system-from-europe.html
Canada  faces a “major shock” to
its financial system and economy if Europe’s crisis worsens, the
country’s central bank said.  While Canada’s financial system has fared well and
conditions in the country remain “very stimulative,” deepening
turmoil in Europe may boost funding costs for the nation’s banks
and generate losses from assets linked to the  euro zone , the
 Bank of Canada  said today in its semi-annual Financial System
Review. Non-performing loans at Canadian banks would also
increase if growth slows.  “The combined effect of these events could constitute a
major shock for both the Canadian financial system and the
economy as a whole,” the Ottawa-based bank said, adding
sovereign debt strains in the euro region are the “principal”
threat to the country’s financial stability. “Should the crisis
worsen and spread further across  Europe , the impact on the
Canadian financial system could be significant.”  The Canadian central bank, which is headed by Financial
Stability Board Chairman  Mark Carney , said that banks in the 17-
nation euro zone need to be recapitalized with European assets,
and that “firewalls” need to be strengthened and brought into
force.  Recent steps by European governments and central banks
“can only create time” and need to be matched by efforts to
create a more “robust foundation” for the region’s financial
market, such as a banking union, the bank said in the report.  To be sure, Canadian credit markets have remained
“robust,” the bank said, citing near historic low corporate
bond yields and data that suggest banks have been easing lending
conditions.  ‘Relatively Stable’  “In contrast to the volatility in European credit markets,
markets in Canada have been relatively stable, and Canadian
banks continue to have good access to wholesale funding
markets,” according to the report.  Canada’s biggest domestic risk remains high  household debt ,
the bank said in the report, and the ratio of debt to  household
income  is likely to keep rising. The Bank of Canada said that
while it welcomed a recent slowdown in the pace of debt
accumulation, households remain vulnerable to shocks.  Stretched valuations and continued building in some
segments of the country’s housing market are “of increasing
concern,” the bank said. Construction and home sales have been
stronger than it had anticipated in December, and the proportion
of debt held by highly indebted households remains above the
average of the past decade, it said.  The Bank of Canada “judges that the risks associated with
high levels of household debt and a potential correction in the
housing market are elevated and have not diminished since
December,” the report said. “A reduction in this domestic risk
requires a combination of deleveraging by vulnerable households
and a reduction in housing market imbalances.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  