-- Bank of Canada's June Financial System Review Highlights (Text)
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-06-14T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/bank-of-canada-s-dec-financial-system-review-highlights-text-.html
Following is the overview section of
the Bank of  Canada ’s Financial System Review. The statement was
released today in Ottawa.  Conditions in the international financial system are
fragile. Over the past six months, financial conditions have
gone through two distinct phases: a significant but short-lived
improvement resulting from the  European Central Bank ’s (ECB)
liquidity provisions in December and February, followed by a
period of mounting market turbulence as sovereign debt concerns
in Europe re-escalated. These concerns reflect widespread doubts
about the capacity and resolve of policy-makers to address
unsustainable fiscal situations, the capital adequacy of some
euro-area banks and the underlying balance-of-payments problems
within the euro area. If these issues are not dealt with in an
orderly way, the contagion effects on global financial
conditions could be significant.  Canada’s financial system continues to be robust despite
the challenging global environment. In contrast to the
volatility in European credit markets, markets in Canada have
been relatively stable, and Canadian banks continue to have good
access to wholesale funding markets. Nevertheless, a further
significant deterioration in global financial conditions could
have a considerable impact here in Canada through trade,
financial and confidence channels.  The Governing Council judges that the risks to the
stability of Canada’s financial system remain high, as in
December. The sources of the key risks are broadly the same as
those highlighted at that time and emanate primarily from the
external environment:  - a further escalation of the euro-area sovereign debt crisis;
- an economic slowdown in other advanced economies;
- financial stress in the Canadian household sector;
- a disorderly resolution of global current account imbalances;
and
- excessive risk-taking associated with a prolonged period of
low  interest rates .  The key risks to financial stability are highly
interdependent and mutually reinforcing. If the sovereign debt
crisis in Europe continues to intensify, it would further weaken
global economic growth and prompt a general retrenchment from
risk. In turn, the weaker global outlook would fuel sovereign
fiscal strains and impair the credit quality of bank loan
portfolios. The rise in  risk aversion  would exacerbate pressures
on bank balance sheets and could prompt a tightening in lending
conditions to households and businesses, adding to the drag on
global economic growth. Together, these factors would increase
the probability of an adverse shock to the income or wealth of
Canadian households. Diminished prospects for growth would also
foster expectations of continued low interest rates, potentially
further eroding the financial positions of life insurance
companies and defined-benefit pension plans, and boosting
household borrowing in Canada.  Mitigating the risks to the stability of the international
financial system requires a number of policy actions. The most
pressing near-term priority is to contain the resurgent crisis
in the euro area. Euro-area banks need to be adequately and
transparently capitalized. In addition, the financial firewalls
(the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF) and the
European Stability Mechanism (ESM)) need to be reinforced and
made fully operational to alleviate contagion. Beyond these
immediate steps, actions need to be taken by both deficit and
surplus countries to address the underlying balance-of-payments
imbalances in the euro area. In particular, structural and
product market reforms to reduce rigidities and facilitate
adjustments in relative wages within the euro area and boost
long-term growth must be fully implemented. There also needs to
be a clearer path for risk mutualization and enhanced fiscal
governance arrangements within the European monetary union.
Ongoing discussions about deepening the union, if fully
developed, would help address  Europe ’s problems.  At a global level--and consistent with the G-20
commitments--current account imbalances have to be addressed to
help foster sustainable and balanced global economic growth.
Among other things, this will require a more decisive move
toward market-determined exchange rates by economies with
current account surpluses, notably  China .  In Canada, the high indebtedness of the household sector
and elevated valuations in the housing market require continued
vigilance. These conditions make households especially
vulnerable to adverse shocks. Building on the Financial
Stability Board’s (FSB) “FSB Principles for Sound Residential
Mortgage Underwriting Practices,” in March, the Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions (OSFI) released a draft
guideline for mortgage underwriting by federally regulated
financial institutions in Canada. These institutions need to
actively monitor risks in their loan and asset portfolios, and
adhere to the new mortgage-lending standards. Households need to
be cognizant of the fact that borrowing rates will eventually
normalize and ensure that they will be able to service new and
existing debt over the duration of their loans.  The current environment should not be an excuse to delay or
dilute the broader financial reform agenda to make the global
financial system more resilient. Timely, comprehensive and
consistent implementation of the Basel III capital rules is a
key priority. Canadian banks plan to implement these rules at
the beginning of the agreed-upon phase-in period, which starts
in 2013. Establishing a resilient market infrastructure is also
important to reduce the likelihood and consequences of future
periods of financial system turmoil. The development of a
central counterparty for repos in Canada, launched on 21
February, is a significant step in this direction. Progress has
also been made in mitigating systemic risk and improving
transparency in over-the-counter derivatives markets.
International standards and policy work to support reform in
this market are largely complete, and efforts are well advanced
in implementing safeguards to strengthen the safety of global
clearing infrastructure. Financial stability also requires that
credible frameworks for resolution are in place so that all
banks, even those that are large and complex, can be resolved in
a timely and orderly manner. The FSB’s “Key Attributes of
Effective Resolution Regimes for Financial Institutions,”
endorsed by the G-20 leaders in November 2011, is an important
step forward on this issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  