-- 
Bank of Korea Holds Rate for Sixth Month as Europe Crisis Imperils Growth

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-12-08T02:50:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/bank-of-korea-holds-rate-for-sixth-month.html
The  Bank of Korea  refrained from
raising borrowing costs for a sixth straight month as the
deepening European debt crisis and global slowdown imperil
exports and growth in Asia’s fourth-biggest economy.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board kept the benchmark
 seven-day repurchase rate  unchanged at 3.25 percent, saying in a
statement in Seoul that “in terms of the upside and downside
risks to the future growth path, the downside dominates.”  “Downside risks to growth are high, due mostly to the
sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  and to the possibility of slumps
in major country economies and the unrest in international
financial markets continuing,” the central bank said in the
statement released in Seoul.  Monetary policy  will be conducted
“so as to firmly anchor the basis for  price stability  amid the
continuing sound growth of the economy.”  The decision to hold rates aligns  South Korea  with efforts
in countries ranging from China to  Australia  to shield Asia-
Pacific economies from Europe’s deepening fiscal turmoil.
Tomorrow the Bank of  Korea  may lower its growth outlook for this
year and next because of the global slowdown, Lee Jong Kyu,
deputy director-general at the bank, said in an interview in
Bali on Dec. 2.  “Europe is a really big threat to growth, prompting global
re-easing,” Yoon Yeo Sam, a fixed-income analyst at  Daewoo
Securities Co. (006800)  in Seoul, said before the announcement. “The
Bank of Korea will follow suit and cut rates in the second
quarter if exports shrink.”  ’Growing Danger’  The won dropped 0.5 percent to 1,131.40 per dollar as of 11
a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Kospi stock index fell 1 percent.  Economic growth in emerging  East Asia  will continue to
moderate into 2012 as escalating sovereign-debt problems in
Europe and an anemic  U.S. economy  raise the specter of a deep
downturn, the Asian Development Bank said in its semi-annual
report on Dec. 6.  “The turmoil emanating from Europe poses a growing danger
to trade and finance within emerging East  Asia ; so the region’s
policy makers must be prepared to act promptly, decisively and
collectively to counter what could be an extended global
economic slowdown,” Iwan J. Azis, the head of ADB’s Office of
Regional Economic Integration, said in the report.  Australia’s central bank cut its overnight cash-rate target
by a quarter percentage point to 4.25 percent this week, saying
“the likelihood of a further material slowing in global growth
has increased.”  Rates on Hold  New Zealand’s central bank earlier today left its benchmark
rate at a record-low 2.5 percent, citing a decline in business
confidence and a “softening in international economic
activity.”  Thailand  lowered borrowing costs on Nov. 30, while
 China  reduced lenders’ reserve requirements for the first time
since 2008.  “After the likely negative GDP growth and slowing
inflation in the first quarter, we expect policy makers to enact
a supplementary budget and cut interest rates,” Kwon Young Sun,
a Hong Kong-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said. “We
forecast the BOK to cut policy rates by 25 basis points each in
April and July 2012 to 2.75 percent.”  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said on Dec. 6 that the
nation’s economy may slow due to signs of global weakness and a
decline in international trade.  Growth Outlook Cut  South Korea’s economy will grow by 3.8 percent in 2012, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development forecast
last week. That’s lower than the Bank of Korea’s projection in
July of a 4.6 percent expansion next year.  Overseas shipments continue to drive the economy, expanding
a more-than-expected 13.8 percent in November, according to
government data released Dec. 1. Industrial production
unexpectedly fell 0.7 percent in October from September, the
fifth decline this year.  Samsung Electronics Co.’s third-quarter net profit
decreased 23 percent from a year earlier as computer-memory chip
and panel sales slumped.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  reported a wider-
than-estimated quarterly loss as mobile-phone sales missed
forecasts and earnings fell at its flat-panel unit.  Consumer prices rose 4.2 percent from a year earlier in
November, accelerating to a three-month high and breaching the
central bank’s target limit again, a government report showed on
Dec. 1.  “As regards consumer prices, their uptrend will slow due
largely to the easing of upward pressures on international
commodity prices,” the central bank said today. “The fall in
 core inflation  is, meanwhile, expected to be limited, affected
by inflation expectations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  