-- 
Benefits of Bayer’s Yaz Pill Outweigh Risks: Panel

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-12-09T08:12:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/bayer-birth-control-pill-s-benefits-outweigh-risks-panel-says.html
Bayer AG’s  Yaz and its class of  birth
control  pills containing the hormone drospirenone were backed in
a close vote of U.S. advisers seeking clearer guidance for women
about the danger of potential blood clots.  Studies have shown conflicting evidence about whether women
who take the pills have a higher risk of  blood clots  than if
they take older birth control pills that don’t contain
drospirenone. Those ambiguous results prompted the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration to request yesterday’s review.  The reproductive and drug safety advisory panels voted
15-11 that the benefits of the class of oral contraceptives
including Yaz outweigh the risks. The advisers also voted 21-5
that information labels for the pills be changed to better
reflect the potential for blood clots. The FDA isn’t required to
follow the panels’ advice.  “All of these studies have significant strengths and
weaknesses,” said  Julia Johnson , acting chairwoman of the panel
and chair of the University of Massachusetts Medical School
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology.  Panel members were concerned the results may have been
affected by factors that weren’t studied such as women’s body
mass index, smoking habits, family history and ethnicity,
Johnson said.  Difficult to Assess  “I think this makes it very difficult for us to determine
any magnitude of increased risk, if there is any increased
risk,” said  Paula Hillard , a panel member and chief of the
Division of Gynecologic Specialties at Stanford University
School of Medicine near  Palo Alto ,  California .  While the birth-control pill’s label now informs women of
the conflicting studies, the language is confusing, said Elaine
Morrato, an assistant professor in the University of  Colorado ,
Denver, Department of Pediatrics. The results are mentioned in a
complex paragraph and need to be more easily understood,
possibly by using graphics, she said.  Bayer’s Yaz and Yasmin brought in $1.5 billion in  sales  for
the Leverkusen, Germany-based drugmaker last year as its second
best-selling product, less than the $1.8 billion in 2009.  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , based in Petach Tikva, Israel,
introduced a generic version of Yaz in May 2010. Bayer’s stock
dropped 0.7 percent to 46.13 euros at 9:10 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  Women taking drospirenone were 74 percent more likely to
experience clots than those on older hormonal contraceptives,
the FDA found in a  study  published in October. Drospirenone is
similar to the natural female hormone progesterone. Bayer
conducted studies that found no increased risk.  Agency Report  The FDA pushed for more studies on birth control containing
drospirenone after an agency staff report concluded on Dec. 6
that the health risks are unclear. A half-dozen studies in all
have addressed clotting danger from the products.  The FDA has taken a similar position on  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s
Ortho Evra birth control patch, which studies have linked to
increased chance of clotting.  The same panels evaluating Yaz will consider today how to
best interpret studies on the J&J patch and vote on whether
Ortho Evra’s benefits outweigh the risks and whether its label
accurately reflects potential hazards.  J&J, based in New Brunswick,  New Jersey , doesn’t release
specific revenue numbers for the patch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 