-- 
Berkshire’s Bond Holdings May Give Buffett Role in ResCap Plan

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-12-08T19:45:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/berkshire-s-bond-holdings-may-give-buffett-role-in-rescap-restructuring.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) , one of the largest creditors of government-owned Ally
Financial Inc., may wind up playing a central role in the
restructuring of its Residential Capital LLC mortgage unit.  Advisers to Ally, Rescap and the U.S. Treasury Department
see Buffett as someone that they may approach about taking an
equity stake in the subsidiary as they explore whether to put it
into a pre-packaged bankruptcy, said people familiar with the
talks. While they haven’t approached Buffett, advisers made
preliminary calls to buyout firms to gauge their interest in
bidding for the unit in a possible bankruptcy, said the people,
who declined to be identified because talks are private.  Berkshire is seen as a potential buyer because it has more
than $500 million of bonds in Detroit-based Ally and ResCap and
previously invested in a commercial-mortgage firm that once was
owned by Ally, said people familiar with the talks. The advisers
have recently approached firms that last year explored offers
for the lender, the people said.  “Buffett or a private-equity firm could want a part of
this business, especially as the mortgage-origination business
picks up over the next few years,” said Jody Lurie, a credit
analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC. “Any deal would
certainly be difficult, as it would have to be structured so
investors felt protected. That could be through a bankruptcy of
ResCap.”  Berkshire joined  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK)  in 2009 to buy
bankrupt Capmark Financial Group Inc.’s loan-servicing and
mortgage business for more than $400 million. Capmark had been
owned by GMAC LLC, which was renamed Ally. Buffett hasn’t sought
to influence the ResCap process, and advisers intend to have a
more complete plan before they approach him, the people said.  Ally Bonds  Buffett, 81, chairman and chief executive officer of Omaha,
Nebraska-based Berkshire, didn’t return a message left with an
assistant. Gina Proia, an Ally spokeswoman, declined to comment,
as did  Matt Anderson  of the U.S. Treasury Department.  Berkshire had more than $400 million in Ally debt at its
insurance units as of June 30, according to Bloomberg data. That
includes the Government Employees Insurance Co.’s $275 million
holding of Ally’s $1.9 billion of 8 percent notes due in March
2020. ResCap holdings at Berkshire insurers exceed $90 million,
the data show.  The Ally notes traded at 101.75 cents on the dollar
according to Trace, the bond price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. ResCap’s $2.1 billion
of 9.625 percent bonds due May 2015 are trading at 63.5
cents on the dollar.  Buffett’s firm has ResCap holdings beyond those that are
disclosed to U.S. state regulators by insurance subsidiaries,
said a person familiar with the matter. The top holder of Ally
debt is Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of the
world’s biggest bond fund, the data show. Pimco’s  Mark Porterfield  didn’t return a message seeking comment.  Public Offering  Berkshire’s bond holdings could give Buffett a central role
in restructuring even if he opts against bidding for
Minneapolis-based ResCap. Ally may reduce its  liabilities  if it
separates from ResCap, bolstering the parent company’s balance
sheet and prospects for an initial public offering.  Investors and lenders are concerned about costs ResCap
faces from more than 20 lawsuits tied to mortgage securities and
a case from the  Federal Housing Finance Agency , which claims the
firm is among lenders that misrepresented the quality of
mortgages later sold to  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  Advisers are weighing how a ResCap bankruptcy may change
Ally’s  funding costs , and any decision is probably at least
weeks away, said the people. Ally is exploring a separation
payment that would help ResCap weather some future losses,
including costs tied to disputes with mortgage investors and
state and federal regulators, the people said. The solution
could cost $2 billion or more, said one of the people.  Mortgage Costs  Ally and ResCap may face as much as $4.1 billion in
expenses tied to mortgage costs, Adam Steer, an analyst, said in
September when he was at CreditSights Inc.  Steer estimated $3 billion would be needed to resolve
disputes from investors who suffered losses on mortgage-related
securities packaged by the firm. About $829 million of that sum
has already been reserved, according to Steer, who now works at
Brookfield Investment Management Inc. The analyst also estimated
a $1.1 billion cost that would be Ally’s share of a potential
settlement between state attorneys general and the largest
mortgage firms over foreclosure deficiencies.  ‘Clean Transaction’  “There would be interest in ResCap if the buyers could
structure a clean transaction, which may have to be through
 bankruptcy court ,” said  Kirk Ludtke , an analyst at Stamford,
Connecticut-based CRT Capital Group LLC. “There is no question
that the probability of ResCap filing has increased.”  If Ally does pursue a sale of ResCap through bankruptcy it
may target buyout firms including  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) ,
Centerbridge Capital Partners LLC and mortgage servicer  Ocwen
Financial Corp. (OCN) , which all considered bids in mid 2010 in a
failed auction for ResCap, the people said.  Gordon Runte, a Fortress spokesman, declined to comment.
Ocwen Chief Financial Officer John Van Vlack didn’t return a
message seeking comment. A call to Centerbridge wasn’t returned.  Resolving ResCap would require approval from the FHFA and
from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which oversees Ally
because it accepts customer deposits, one of the people said.  Corinne Russell of the FHFA declined to comment as did FDIC
spokesman  David Barr .  Ally, which is 74 percent owned by the Treasury Department,
is seeking to repay $17.2 billion in U.S. bailout funds through
an IPO. Ally had almost $182 billion in assets and $162.2
billion in liabilities, for equity of  $19.7 billion , as of Sept.
30, according to a company regulatory filing. ResCap’s tangible
net worth was $331 million at the end of the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  