-- 
Berman Resists Pressure to Weaken Iran Sanctions Measure

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 
2011-12-08T22:55:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/berman-resists-pressure-to-weaken-iran-sanctions-measure-1-.html
Rep. Howard Berman of  California , the
ranking Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, vowed
to resist pressure from the Obama administration to weaken
legislation intended to isolate the Central Bank of  Iran .  “I will not -- and Congress should not -- give in to
entreaties from the administration or elsewhere to dilute our
approach to sanctions on the Central Bank of Iran’s  petroleum
transactions ,” Berman said today at a conference sponsored by
the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, a policy group in
Washington.  The group has pressed Congress and the White House to
support sanctions targeting Iran’s energy and banking sectors in
an effort to cripple Iran’s economy and persuade the regime to
drop its suspected nuclear weapons program.  Also today, Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of  Florida ,
chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said in an
interview that she expects a House vote as early as Dec. 13 on
separate Iran sanctions legislation.  Her bill includes sanctions on Iran’s Central Bank, drafted
by Berman, and penalties for individuals who do business with
Iran’s  petroleum  industry. The legislation goes further than a
unanimously passed Senate amendment by requiring visa denials
and the freezing of assets of certain Iranian officials, as well
as penalties for officials who are determined responsible for
human rights abuses after that country’s 2009 presidential
elections.  Central Bank Targeted  Last week, the Senate unanimously passed an amendment in a
defense authorization bill, sponsored by Illinois Republican
 Mark Kirk  and New Jersey Democrat  Robert Menendez , that would
empower the president to bar foreign financial institutions that
do business with Iran’s central bank from having correspondent
bank accounts in the U.S. If enacted, it could be harder for
foreign companies to pay for oil imports from Iran, the world’s
third-largest crude exporter.  Berman, who is on the House-Senate conference committee on
the defense legislation, said he opposes the administration’s
efforts to weaken the amendment. He is proposing to reduce the
time delay to 120 days from 180 days before the measure would
take effect. The 120-day lag is enough time to work on
international support and to reduce disruption to oil markets,
he said.  The Obama administration opposes the legislation, saying it
threatens to send the price of oil soaring and to fracture the
international coalition currently backing sanctions on Iran.  Oil Importers  Several U.S. allies, including  Japan ,  South Korea ,  Italy 
and  India , are among the five leading importers of Iranian crude
oil. The South Korean government is considering a drastic cut or
suspension of crude oil imports from Iran to support
international efforts to pressure the Tehran regime, according
to the Yonhap news agency.  Crude oil for January delivery dropped $2.15, or 2.1
percent, to settle at 98.34 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
The prospect of oil topping $150 a barrel within a year has
become the biggest bet in the options market as the U.S. and
 Europe  work to limit Iran’s crude sales.  The number of outstanding calls to buy oil at $150 next
December has jumped 29 percent since a Nov. 8 United Nations
inspectors’ report on the Persian Gulf country’s nuclear
program, to more than any other option on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The contracts equate to about 38 million
barrels of oil, or 43 percent of daily global demand, based on
data from the U.S. Energy Department.  Supporters of sanctions on Iran’s central bank say such
measures would significantly impede the country’s ability to
export oil. The Central Bank of has become a vital intermediary
for purchasers of Iranian crude because existing sanctions
against the Persian Gulf country have constrained Iran’s ability
to access the international financial sector to settle oil
trades, said  Mark Dubowitz , director of the Iran Energy Project
at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies.  The Ros-Lehtinen bill is H.R. 1905.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  