-- 
BNP Paribas Names Machenil as CFO Amid Management Shuffle

-- B y   M a r t h e   F o u r c a d e   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-12-08T13:10:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/bnp-paribas-names-machenil-as-cfo-amid-management-shuffle-1-.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , which is shuffling
its senior management, appointed Lars Machenil as chief
financial officer to succeed Philippe Bordenave, who was named
chief operating officer last week.  Machenil, 42, will start the post on March 1, the Paris-
based bank said in a statement today. France’s largest lender
enlarged its executive committee by a third on Dec. 2 after
Jean-Laurent Bonnafe took over as chief executive officer,
replacing  Baudouin Prot , who became chairman following the
retirement of Michel Pebereau.  Bonnafe, who oversaw the acquisitions of  Italy ’s Banca
Nazionale del Lavoro SpA in 2006 and of Fortis assets in Belgium
and Luxembourg in 2009, inherited the CEO job as the firm is
trimming assets as the European sovereign-debt crisis squeezes
funding options. BNP Paribas, along with  Germany ’s  Deutsche Bank
AG , is among European lenders placed under CreditWatch negative
by  Standard & Poor’s  yesterday amid a similar review of 15
countries in the region.  Machenil, who has been CFO of BNP Paribas’s Belgian retail-
banking unit since May 2009, will work as the group’s head of
finance under Bordenave’s oversight. Before joining Fortis in
2000, Machenil worked for three years at McKinsey & Co. in
Venezuela, Italy and in Brussels. He holds a doctorate in
nuclear science and an engineering degree in electrotechnics,
the company said.  BNP Paribas rose 47 cents, or 1.4 percent, to 33.46 euros
by 1:35 p.m. in Paris trading, giving the bank a market value of
40.4 billion euros ($54.1 billion). The stock has fallen 30
percent in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marthe Fourcade in Paris at 
 mfourcade@bloomberg.net ;
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  