-- 
Loaded-Up Payroll Tax-Cut Bills Set to Collide in U.S. Congress

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-12-09T05:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/boehner-says-he-s-confident-payroll-tax-cut-can-pass-house-1-.html
U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  and
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  are poised for a collision
next week of their bids to extend or expand a  payroll tax  cut
for workers.  House Republicans rallied yesterday behind a plan Boehner
is preparing that would pair an extension of the current  payroll 
tax cut with eased restrictions on some industrial emissions and
expedited approval of an oil pipeline from Canada. Reid is
focused on expanding cuts to the worker payroll tax and enacting
a surtax on annual income exceeding $1 million to pay for it.  Both leaders agree on extending the Social Security payroll
tax cut in some manner, addressing expanded  unemployment 
benefits that will lapse at the end of the year, preventing cuts
to physician reimbursements by Medicare and enacting some
spending reductions. Their differences over how to pay for a
comprehensive package, along with some of their priorities,
present procedural hurdles that are tough to clear, said Senate
Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat.  “At this moment, I don’t see the formula that gets 60
votes,” he said. “I’m still hopeful that we will.”  The House and Senate won’t hold votes today and most
lawmakers are returning to their districts for the weekend. They
face a Dec. 31 deadline to address the payroll tax cut or
workers will receive 2 percent less in paychecks starting in
January.  ‘Classic Moment’  That’s a result that both parties want to avoid, said
Senator  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut independent.  “It’s a classic moment of this session of Congress, which
is that both parties are for something and we can’t figure out
how to get it done,” he said.  The biggest fights likely will center on a Republican
demand that the bill include language that would expedite the
approval of the Keystone XL pipeline in  Canada . The proposed
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  pipeline would carry oil from Canada to the
U.S. The Obama administration put off a decision on the pipeline
until 2013.  President  Barack Obama  has said he would reject efforts to
tie approval of the pipeline to extension of a  payroll  tax cut.
Boehner said the issue should be addressed in the package
because development of the pipeline will create jobs.  ‘The Keystone pipeline project would create tens of
thousands of jobs immediately,” Boehner said. “At a time when
the American people are still asking the question ‘where are the
jobs?,’ this is a bipartisan proposal that the president ought
to endorse.”  Veto Possibility  Representative  Jeb Hensarling , a Texas Republican, exhorted
Obama not to use his veto on the pipeline issue.  “Mr. President, we will have some of your ideas in the
bill, maybe it’s time for you to try some of ours,” he told
reporters after the Republican meeting.  House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California said
Republicans were “injecting poison pills” into the
legislation, knowing Obama wouldn’t sign it into law with those
provisions.  Both parties are interested in continuing expanded
unemployment benefits beyond their scheduled expiration at the
end of the year. They are divided over the details. Over time,
Republicans want to scale back how long the unemployed can claim
compensation from 99 weeks to 79 weeks and eventually 59 weeks,
said Representative Pat Tiberi, an Ohio Republican.  House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , a
 Michigan  Republican, said yesterday that Republican leaders are
still talking to members about  unemployment benefits  “to try to
find a policy that everyone can agree on.”  Other Provisions  Pelosi said reducing the benefits to 59 weeks would be
“problematic” for her caucus.  The Republican bill also would overturn an Obama
administration rule that bars states from conducting drug tests
for recipients of unemployment compensation and would include
income-based eligibility for  food stamps , according to
Representative Aaron Schock, an Illinois Republican.  Both parties have expressed interest in avoiding reductions
in reimbursements by Medicare that are due to begin Jan. 1. The
Republican bill would prevent the cuts for two years and provide
physicians with reimbursements that would be 1 percent larger
than they were this year, according to Representative Phil Gingrey, a Georgia Republican who is a physician. That would
cost $39 billion over 10 years, according to the  Congressional
Budget Office .  Longer-Term Fixes  Gingrey said Camp promised to consider longer-term fixes to
the Medicare reimbursement system next year. Camp’s pledge
persuaded Gingrey to back the package, Gingrey said.  Republicans will find savings, according to Gingrey, by
expanding the pool of higher-income Medicare beneficiaries who
would be required to pay larger premiums for Part B physician
care. The plan includes income-based eligibility for the drug
benefit program under Medicare Part D.  Upper-income senior citizens would pay “closer to the true
cost” of the programs, Gingrey said.  Another area of potential agreement is a provision that
allows the complete write-off of capital investments that
Representative Charles Boustany of  Louisiana  said would be
included in the Republican measure. Unless Congress acts, the
ability for full write-offs expires Dec. 31, and in 2012
companies could receive only 50 percent bonus depreciation.  Representative  Sander Levin  of Michigan, the top Democrat
on the Ways and Means panel, said he could support that
provision.  Senate Action  The Senate blocked separate Democratic and Republican bills
yesterday that would have extended or expanded the payroll tax
next year. The Democratic measure, which failed to advance in a
50-48 vote, would have reduced the payroll tax to 3.1 percent
next year for employees. The Republican bill, which stalled in a
22-76 vote, would have extended the payroll tax at the current
4.2 percent rate for one year.  Both bills needed 60 votes to advance. After the votes,
Reid said the Republican proposal being drafted in the House
wouldn’t succeed in his chamber.  “ House Republicans ’ bill is a partisan joke that has no
chance of passing the Senate,” he said in a press release.
“Instead of playing political games, Congress should work to
find common ground.”  The House could vote on the Republican plan as soon as Dec.
13, Gingrey said. The House’s work won’t likely be completed if
Democrats in the Senate block the measure, setting up possible
back-and-forth maneuvering between the chambers next week.  Boehner “put enough red meat for their Tea Party folks to
get it done,” said Representative Henry Cuellar, a Texas
Democrat. “But on the way back, he’s going to lose a lot of
those folks because they’re going to strip out things and then
it’s up to the Democrats to come in and help it out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  