-- 
Boeing Union Seeks End to NLRB Complaint as Pay Deal Passes

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-12-08T18:54:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/boeing-averts-machinists-strike-with-pact-that-may-end-nlrb-case.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  Machinists asked the
 National Labor Relations Board  to drop a complaint against the
planemaker after union members approved a new contract that
increases production in Seattle and averts the risk of a third
straight strike.  About 74 percent of Machinists supported the contract
yesterday in a ballot among 31,000 union members, mostly in the
Seattle area, who accepted the surprise proposal unveiled last
week that extends the current agreement by four years.  Boeing will be strike-free through 2016 amid plans to boost
output by 60 percent after four Machinist walkouts since 1989
delayed hundreds of deliveries. Workers were promised that a
revamped version of the 737 jet will be built at a current
factory near  Seattle , and the union requested the NLRB retract
the complaint filed over a new 787 plant in South Carolina.  “To avoid disruption during the next several years when
production is expected to ramp up to over 650 planes per year
translates into a notable reduction in risk for Boeing,”  Howard Rubel , an analyst with Jefferies & Co. in  New York  who
recommends buying the shares, wrote in a note today.  The shares fell 0.4 percent to $70.31 at 12:31 p.m. New
York time. Through yesterday, the planemaker had jumped 8.2
percent since Nov. 29, the day before it announced the tentative
agreement with Machinist union leaders.  Turned a Corner  “I’m confident we’ve turned an important corner in the 76-
year relationship between Boeing and the IAM,” the union’s vice
president, Rich Michalski, said in a statement last night.
“Both sides are committed to maintaining the high levels of
communications and cooperation that produced this agreement.”  The Machinists accepted the accord nine months before their
contract was set to expire. Workers will get a 2 percent wage
increase each year of the contract, a new performance-based
incentive program and a $5,000 ratification bonus that will be
paid later this month. Pensions will also be preserved along
with retirees’ medical benefits.  Still, employees will have to shoulder more of their
health-care costs, which was one of the proposals that prompted
a strike three years ago.  ‘Fair Deal’  Boeing Commercial Airplanes President  Jim Albaugh  said in
an interview shortly after the results were announced that the
contract is “a fair deal” that is “good for everybody.”  The union was “approaching a collision with Boeing, so in
effect they have created jobs for the members, diffused the
collision and a very volatile political issue on the eve of the
election, and signed an agreement, all in the same stroke,”
 Harley Shaiken , a labor professor at the  University of
California  at Berkeley, said in an interview earlier this week.
“Both sides were faced with uncertainty and real losses, and
the nature of collective bargaining is seizing the moment.”  The faltering relationship between the planemaker and its
largest union reached a new low two years ago, when Boeing
decided to build its first commercial assembly plant outside the
Puget Sound area, where the company was founded in 1916.  The Machinists complained to the NLRB after executives’
comments that the new 787 facility in  South Carolina  would avoid
walkouts in Washington. The new plant isn’t unionized, and that
state forbids requiring union membership as a condition of
employment. The labor board investigated and accused Boeing of
violating workers’ federally protected right to strike.  The NLRB has said it will consider the union’s request for
a dismissal of the case.  ‘Pivotal Manufacturing Firm’  “It’s an unusual moment,” Shaiken said. “It’s not simply
any company, it’s the largest exporter, one of our high-tech
leaders, a pivotal manufacturing firm. What happens here is
critical.”  The team developing the 737 MAX has 300 people based at the
narrow-body factory in Renton, south of Seattle, and will expand
to more than 1,000 in the next two years, Boeing said in an
online  message to employees  last week.  Albaugh didn’t give more specifics on production-site plans
for the 737 MAX, which Boeing decided in July to build as a
challenge  Airbus (EAD)  SAS’s rival A320neo. The plane has won about
700 commitments so far, and “at least one” firm order -- which
will be the first -- will be signed by Christmas, Albaugh said.  The plant is now producing a record 35 planes a month,
which Boeing intends to raise to 42 by 2014. The company hopes
to reach this goal without making any investments, Albaugh said.  “In the spirit of this contract, we’re going to work with
the union to figure out ways to build more,” he said.  Committed to Max  Albaugh refuted Airbus Chief Operating Officer  John Leahy ’s
comments last week that Boeing may scrap the MAX, due to enter
service in 2017, and go back to its original preference of
building an all-new single-aisle plane instead.  “There is no team working in the back room on a new small
airplane,” he said. “We’re committed to the MAX. We’re going
to build the MAX in Renton. And we’re going to continue to
command a large share of the market.”  As with the 787’s beginning almost a decade ago, Boeing
didn’t promise exclusivity to  Washington  state.  Winning at least some of the MAX work is important, even if
Boeing ends up putting a portion of the manufacturing elsewhere
as it did with the 787, Tom Wroblewski, president for Machinists
District 751, said in an interview before yesterday’s vote.
Production of the current 737, built exclusively in Renton,
could stop by the end of this decade.  “Their long-term vision is to get to 60 airplanes a
month” in Renton, Wroblewski said. “That’s the commitment --
they’re going to stuff as many airplanes as they can into it --
and we’ve never had that type of commitment. It’s a change in
how we do business with this company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  