-- 
Bolsa Mexicana Climbs to Six-Month High as Trading Volumes Soar

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-12-08T19:52:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/bolsa-mexicana-climbs-to-six-month-high-as-trading-volumes-soar.html
Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB (BOLSAA) , the
operator of Mexico’s securities exchange, climbed to a six-month
high as computers help increase trading volumes and revenue.  The shares rose 0.7 percent to 24.20 pesos at 1:36 p.m.
Mexico City time. Earlier, they touched 24.50 pesos, the highest
intraday price since June 1. The benchmark  IPC index (MEXBOL)  of 35
Mexican stocks retreated 1.1 percent, while the  MSCI Latin
America (MXLA)  Index tumbled 2.5 percent.  Transaction revenue is rising as more investors turn to so-
called high-frequency trading, or the use of computer programs
to automatically buy and sell securities for fast execution,
Jorge Alegria, head of markets and information at the exchange,
told reporters yesterday in Mexico City. Local market equity
trading jumped 13 percent from a month earlier to an average of
9.7 billion pesos ($708 million) daily in November, according to
data compiled by the exchange.  “Much is due to this report,” said  Gerardo Copca , an
equity analyst at Mexico City-based Metanalisis SA. “We’ve seen
stronger numbers in trading.”  Separately, Mexico’s stock exchange said Dec. 5 that it
signed a letter of intent with the bourses of Colombia, Peru and
Chile to explore its integration into a joint exchange known as
MILA.  The possible combination is also driving the stock higher,
Martin Lara, an analyst at Corp. Actinver SAB in Mexico City,
said in a telephone interview.  While trading operations are picking up, Mexico hasn’t had
an initial public offering since July. There have been three
IPOs this year, compared with five in the same period in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in  Mexico  City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  