-- 
Bovespa Falls a Second Day on Europe Concern, Brazil Inflation

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-12-08T14:38:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/bovespa-falls-a-second-day-on-europe-concern-brazil-inflation.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index fell for a second
day as concern that policy makers will be unable to solve
 Europe ’s debt crisis sent global stocks and commodities lower
while a report showed faster-than-forecast inflation in  Brazil .  Miner Vale SA and state-controlled oil producer  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA , the index’s heaviest-weighted companies, slumped
as crude and copper prices reversed earlier gains.  Cyrela Brazil
Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes , Brazil’s second-
biggest homebuilder by revenue, paced declines for companies
that depend on domestic demand as traders drove up yields on
interest-rate futures contracts.  The Bovespa fell 1.5 percent to 57,787.44 at 12:25 p.m. in
Sao Paulo. Sixty-six stocks dropped on the index while two rose.
The real was little changed at 1.7994 per  U.S. dollar .  “The market’s attentions are most focused on Europe,”
said Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps oversee 80 million reais
($44.5 million) at Leme Investimentos in Florianopolis, Brazil.
Referring to Brazilian inflation, he said, “the fact that it
came in a bit firmer confirms there are still pressures.”  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge reversed an earlier gain of
as much as 0.9 percent, tracking global stocks lower, after
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said he hasn’t
signaled plans to purchase more bonds. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI index of 24 raw materials dropped 0.4 percent.  Brazilian consumer prices rose faster than forecast in
November, cementing expectations the central bank won’t
accelerate the pace of interest-rate cuts. Inflation, as
measured by the benchmark IPCA index, quickened to 0.52 percent
last month from 0.43 percent in October. The increase was more
than the 0.5 percent median estimate from 54 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Inflation Outlook  Inflation will slow to “around” its 4.5 percent target
next year as the global crisis damps domestic activity and
commodities prices, policy makers said in the minutes of their
last meeting, published today. The central bank has cut the
benchmark  Selic  by half a percentage point three times since
August.  Vale, the largest iron-ore producer in the world, slid 1.4
percent to 38.53 reais while Petrobras slipped 0.6 percent to
23.14 reais. Cyrela declined 3.2 percent to 15.35 reais.  The Bovespa entered a  bull market  in October after gaining
22 percent from a two-year low on Aug. 8 as Brazil’s interest-
rate cuts and speculation Europe was working toward solving its
debt crisis buoyed demand for equities. The gauge is still down
17 percent this year on concern flagging global commodity demand
and quickening inflation will hurt corporate earnings growth.  Brazil’s benchmark equity index trades at 10.4 times
analysts’ earnings estimates, in line with the ratio for MSCI
Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Traders moved 5.97 billion reais in stocks in Sao Paulo
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
daily average this year of 6.52 billion reais through Dec. 1,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  