-- 
Branson Plans Banks at Rail Stations After Northern Rock Bid

-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 
2011-12-08T20:11:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/branson-plans-banks-at-rail-stations-after-northern-rock-bid.html
British billionaire  Richard Branson 
said he may open bank branches at train stations on the main
rail route between  London  and  Scotland  after his Virgin Money
Holdings U.K. Ltd. agreed to buy  Northern Rock  Plc.  Branson is considering drawing on his expanding finance
business as he seeks to retain the West Coast franchise that
transports 30 million passengers a year between the U.K. capital
and the cities of Birmingham, Glasgow, Liverpool and Manchester.  “Virgin Money I’m sure would be interested in opening up
banks along the line,” Branson said yesterday in an interview
following a briefing on his rail strategy at London’s Euston
station. “That’s quite likely.”  Branson agreed to buy Northern Rock last month for 747
million pounds ($1.17 billion), marking the first sale of a bank
bailed out by the British government since the 2008 financial
crisis. The deal, scheduled for completion on Jan. 1, will bring
the online and phone-only Virgin Money its first retail branches
and 1 million more customers, lifting the total to 4 million.  Smart Idea  “Opening in stations where people are waiting for trains
and can go and hang out in their branch if they want is quite a
clever concept,” said  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst at
Mediobanca SpA in London. “Rebranding as Virgin Money should
create a user-friendly environment and gain market share.”  The West Coast contract, operated by Virgin for 14 years,
should go to the bid offering the greatest innovation and
highest quality, not simply the most money, Branson said, adding
that he has “radical ideas for the new franchise.”  Virgin Trains is anxious not to lose to an unsustainably
high competing offer, he said, citing a failed pitch for the
rival East Coast route, from which winning bidder  National
Express Group Plc (NEX)  withdrew after revenue fell in the recession.  State companies such as SNCF of France and Dutch operator
NV Nederlandse Spoorwegen, also competing for the West Coast
route, typically “do not do that great a job,” Branson said.
Aberdeen, Scotland-based  FirstGroup Plc (FGP)  is the fourth bidder.  The 61-year-old entrepreneur said Virgin could ultimately
withdraw from the U.K. railway industry if it fails to keep the
London-Glasgow franchise, having lost its only other contract --
the long-distance CrossCountry network -- in 2007, though a bid
for a re-tendered East Coast business remains a possibility.  End of the Line  “We’d much rather be going forward than going backwards,”
he said in the interview. “If we weren’t successful in getting
this, would we carry on investing in rail in the U.K.? I think
perhaps less likely than likely.”  Network Rail Ltd. spokesman Russell Spink said there are no
banks at the 18 major U.K. stations managed by the government-
backed company, which runs Britain’s rail infrastructure.  Charges at the stations, which include six on the West
Coast route, are based on sales at individual shops, something
that might be tough to calculate for a bank, so Virgin would
more likely focus branches on those stops it directly manages,
such as Rugby, Crewe and Coventry in central  England , he said.  “There’s no reason why a bank couldn’t today operate at one
of the many stations managed by the train operators as part of
their franchise,” Spink said. “If Richard Branson wants to stick
Virgin Money or Northern Rock at a Virgin-managed station there
are no railway rules or regulations against that.”  SNCF Accord  Virgin has also been approached about “building networks”
in countries including  Australia  and the U.S., Branson said,
without elaborating on what that would entail.  While West Coast stations such as Crewe and Preston serve
limited local populations they’re also major interchanges with
extensive buildings, many of them unoccupied, offering scope to
accommodate expanded retail sites, as well as more novel
facilities such as business centers and gyms. Branson Virgin
Group includes the Virgin Active health club chain.  SNCF last month signed a deal with Regus Plc to open six
“drop-in” business centers at railway stations in  France ,
offering workspace equipped with printers, scanners and video-
communication facilities for as little as 10 minutes a session.  The companies didn’t specify if a similar arrangement might
be offered in the U.K.  Virgin Money said following the agreement to buy Northern
Rock -- which had a first-half loss of 68.5 million pounds --
that it wouldn’t impose job cuts for three years and would
maintain at least the same number of branches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  