-- 
Brasil Foods, Marfrig to Swap Assets in Brazil, Argentina

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-12-08T20:32:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/brasil-foods-marfrig-to-swap-assets-in-brazil-argentina-3-.html
BRF - Brasil Foods SA (BRFS3) , the world’s
largest poultry exporter, said it signed an asset-swap accord
with Marfrig Alimentos SA after being ordered to shed some units
as part of a regulatory approval for a $3.8 billion takeover.   Marfrig (MRFG3) ,  Latin America ’s second-largest beef producer, will
take control of the assets that  Brazil ’s antitrust regulator
told Brasil Foods to sell in July, the companies said today in
regulatory filings. Marfrig will transfer its Argentine assets,
commercial operations in Uruguay and Chile and a feedlot in
Brazil’s Mato Grosso state, as well as paying 200 million reais
($112 million) to Brasil Foods for the assets, they said.  “Marfrig is quite indebted so this may have been the best
way for them,” to acquire the assets, Caue Pinheiro, an analyst
at Sao Paulo-based brokerage SLW Corretora, said today in a
telephone interview. “Brasil Foods had to sell.”  Brasil Foods was ordered by the regulator, known as Cade,
to sell units as part of its takeover of rival Sadia SA. The
assets, which included 12 brands, 10 processing plants, eight
distribution centers and four slaughterhouses, were worth about
1.4 billion reais, according to the average estimate of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Marfrig rose 26 centavos, or 3.2 percent, to 8.49 reais in
 Sao Paulo  today, leading gains in the Brazilian benchmark
Bovespa  index. (IBOV)  Brasil Foods fell 2.5 percent to 36.90 reais, the
biggest decline in almost a month.  The assets exchanged by Brasil Foods and Marfrig have
“equivalent value,” the companies said in the regulatory
filings. The deal will still have to be approved by Cade as part
of proceedings related to the takeover of Sadia, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net 
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  