-- 
Rousseff Wins Brazilian Senate Battle Over Nationwide Health Care Spending

-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 
2011-12-08T16:25:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/brazil-s-senate-votes-to-increase-2012-health-care-spending.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ’s
coalition in the Senate defeated a bill that would have
increased public spending more than the government anticipated.  In setting guidelines for public health care spending, the
Senate yesterday rejected on bill that would have earmarked 10
percent of federal gross revenue for health while approving
another bill that will boost outlays by states and
municipalities. The federal government currently spends 6.6
percent of its annual revenue on health care.  “In terms of fiscal policy, it can been seen as a positive
result as government expenses are trending toward increasing at
a faster pace next year,” said Felipe Salto, analyst at
Tendencias Consultoria Integrada. “There wouldn’t be revenue to
meet costs next year,” he said in a telephone interview from
 Sao Paulo .  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has pledged to keep public
expenses under control as part of an austerity drive that
creates room for the central bank to continue cutting  interest
rate . The bill rejected by the Senate could have forced the
administration to boost health spending by 35 billion reais
($19.3 billion), said Senator Romero Juca, leader of Rousseff’s
coalition in the upper house.  States and Municipalities  The bill that was approved will increase health outlays by
states and municipalities by 6.7 billion reais, according to Sao
Paulo-based consulting firm Tendencias. States fiscal results
are part of federal government’s consolidated figures for  budget
surplus  before interest payments, Salto said  States and municipalities are already required to spend 12
percent and 15 percent, respectively, of their revenue on health
care. The bill, which now goes to President Dilma Rousseff to be
signed into law, tightens the definition of what constitutes
such spending. According to Tendencias, 15 of 27 states don’t
spend the required minimum on health care.  Lawmakers voted to maintain the current rule that governs
federal health spending. The government has to match the
previous year’s health outlays while adding a percentage based
on gross domestic product growth.  Rousseff’s 2012 budget proposal targets a surplus before
interest payments of 139.8 billion reais for the federal, state
and local governments -- the equivalent of 3.1 percent of GDP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  