-- 
Brazil Prepares Three Wireless Auctions Next Year as Mobile Demand Surges

-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-12-08T20:07:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/brazil-prepares-3-wireless-auctions-next-year-as-demand-surges.html
Brazil is preparing three auctions of
wireless airwaves for mobile-phone service in 2012 and is
beginning work on a fourth sale to meet the growing demand for
data downloads, the nation’s top phone regulator said.  Telefonica Brasil SA (TEF) , a unit of Madrid-based Telefonica SA,
and billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil SAB (AMXL)  may participate
in the contest for airwaves in the 2.5 gigahertz band used for
so-called fourth-generation services, Joao Batista de Rezende
said. That sale, along with an auction in the 450 megahertz band
for rural coverage, will be in April, said the president of the
National Telecommunications Agency, or Anatel.  “The Brazilian market will guarantee return on
investment,” Rezende said in a Dec. 2 interview in Brasilia.
“From the conversations I’m having, nobody is going to miss out
on this kind of spectrum, because that would mean missing out on
the fourth generation,” or 4G, which enables faster wireless
Internet connections.  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s local unit  Tim Participacoes SA (TCSL4) , Tele
Norte Leste Participacoes SA,  NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD)  and  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s
Global Village Telecom Holding SA are likely to bid for 4G
airwaves as well, Rezende said.  Anatel is also preparing an auction in the second half of
2012 for the 3.5 gigahertz band, which can be used for several
applications including voice, data and video, Rezende said.  “It strengthens the data-transmission infrastructure of
the big companies,” Rezende said. “Mobile service is going to
need more frequencies in the future.”  232 Million Subscribers  Brazil had 232 million wireless subscribers at the end of
October, up 19 percent from a year earlier, according to
government statistics. That was the fastest rate of growth since
July 2009.  The country had  195 million people  as of 2010, according to
the  World Bank . Some phone users buy subscriptions from multiple
carriers to make cheaper calls, and some buy data subscriptions,
such as laptop cards, in addition to their phone services.  Subscriptions to high-speed Internet over fixed or mobile
lines rose 22 percent to 16 million at the end of the third
quarter from a year earlier, according to  Anatel .  By the end of 2012, Brazil will have offered 764 megahertz
of airwaves to mobile-phone companies. The country will need to
reach 980 megahertz by 2015 to keep up with demand, according to
estimates from the International Telecommunications Union, a
United Nations agency.  Mobile Phones ‘Someday’  “It’s natural to think that someday we will enter the
mobile-phone market, but it’s not in our short-term plans,”
said GVT, the Vivendi unit, in an e-mail today. The company
offers fixed-line phone, Internet and TV service.  The press offices of Telefonica,  America Movil , Tim, Tele
Norte Leste and NII didn’t respond to phone and e-mail messages
today.  To reach the goal set by the  ITU , the government plans to
begin preliminary discussions in the second half of 2012 for the
auction of airwaves in the 700 megahertz band, the last swath of
spectrum for mobile phones, Rezende said. Television
broadcasters, who now use that frequency, are expected to
abandon it by 2016 as part of a switch from analog to digital
signals.  Since the 700 megahertz spectrum involves the TV industry,
the decision on how to manage it will involve other government
agencies, Rezende said.  “Broadcasting is a topic for the government, not just
Anatel,” he said.  Phone Fees  Rezende, who assumed the presidency of Anatel Nov. 7, said
he aims to reduce the fees carriers can charge to connect calls
to mobile phones in the next few years. From 2012 to 2014,
companies will reduce their charges to consumers for those fees
by about 15 billion reais ($8.34 billion). It makes sense to
reduce the fees even more beginning in 2014 to make them cheaper
compared with other countries, he said.  The rate reduction plan, announced in October, calls for
carriers to reduce the price of a call from a fixed-line phone
to a mobile from 42.7 centavos (24 cents) a minute to 31.2
centavos in 2014. In Mexico,  Latin America ’s second-biggest
country after  Brazil , carriers can only charge the equivalent of
3 U.S. cents a minute this year.  The reduction of those fees can’t be more drastic because
the government seeks the participation of the mobile carriers in
the 2012 auctions, and the fees are an important part of their
sales, Rezende said.  “The reduction is being done gradually to guarantee
stability and investment so that companies can plan for the 2.5
auction,” Rezende said. “With an abrupt cut in mobile
termination rates, the company isn’t going to participate in the
auction. We’re trying to account for that.”  Regulatory Plan  Rezende also aims to hold talks with the  Communications
Ministry  to adapt the regulatory plan for the telecommunications
industry to cover new technologies, Rezende said. It’s important
to include network infrastructure inspections and the
combination of services such as voice, video and data over a
single network, he said.  In March, Anatel expects to authorize the first cable-
television licenses after lawmakers approved rules this year
allowing foreigners to enter the market, Rezende said. The
agency has received about 600 requests for licenses, he said.  Anatel may approve the changes in the law, which has
already been signed by President  Dilma Rousseff , in a meeting
today, he said.  The agency is betting on growth in cable-TV to help meet
the demand for high-speed  Internet service , he said. That growth
will bring lower prices for consumers next year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in  Mexico  City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  