-- 
Brazil Inflation Quickens as Tombini Vows Moderate Rate Cuts

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 
2011-12-08T14:13:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/brazil-s-november-consumer-prices-increase-0-52-faster-than-expected.html
Brazilian consumer  prices  rose faster
than expected in November, prompting traders to pare bets the
central bank will accelerate the pace of  interest-rate  cuts to
fuel economic growth.  Inflation, as measured by the benchmark IPCA index,
quickened to 0.52 percent last month from 0.43 percent in
October. The gain was more than the 0.5 percent median estimate
from 54 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Policy makers reiterated today that “ moderate ” cuts to
the benchmark interest rate amid slower global growth and
“robust” domestic demand are consistent with its 2012 consumer
price target, reinforcing bets they will keep reducing borrowing
costs at the current half-point pace. The central bank, which
cut  interest  rates by half a percentage point three times since
August, estimates inflation will slow to “around” its 4.5
percent goal next year, according to the minutes of its Nov. 29-
30 board meeting published today on its website.  Central bankers “consider that they’ve already taken
measures to keep domestic demand more or less at the same level,
despite the global backdrop,”  Pedro Tuesta , a Washington-based
economist for  Latin America  at 4Cast Inc., said in a telephone
interview. The minutes, along with today’s faster-than-expected
inflation, show that policy makers “don’t feel the need for
faster or longer monetary easing.”  The yield on the interest rate futures contract due January
2013, the most traded in Sao Paulo, rose nine basis points to
9.83 percent at 11:18 a.m., as traders moved away from bets the
central bank may opt for deeper rate cuts in January. The real
rose 0.6 percent to 1.7889 per dollar.  Reignite Growth  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is trying to
reignite growth with a mix of tax cuts, lower borrowing costs
and credit stimulus.  Gross domestic product  shrank for the first
time in 10 quarters in the three months ending in September,
prompting Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  to say that the
government will continue to take measures to make credit cheaper
and foster 5 percent growth next year.  GDP contracted 0.04 percent in the third quarter from the
previous three months, the national statistics agency said Dec.
6. The contraction, the first since the first quarter of 2009,
is equivalent to an annualized decline of 0.17 percent.  Credit Curbs  Europe ’s deepening debt crisis sapped demand for Brazilian
exports as credit curbs, interest rate increases and budget cuts
by the government in the beginning of the year began filtering
into the world’s second-largest emerging economy.  Even as growth slows, analysts forecast central bank
President Alexandre Tombini will fail to bring  inflation  back to
the center of the target of 4.5 percent next year. Consumer
price increases breached the upper end of the 2.5-to-6.5 percent
target range in April.  Annual inflation slowed to 6.64 percent in the 12 months
through November, the national statistic agency said today.
Consumer price increases have breached the upper end of the 2.5-
to-6.5 percent target range since April.  The central bank forecast that inflation will slow next
year to “around” 4.5 percent in all the scenarios it published
in today’s minutes.  “Even with a moderate adjustment of the level of basic
interest rates, in the central scenario the inflation rate
stands around the 2012 target,” the central bank said in the
minutes. The bank expects the global crisis will lead to a
“moderation” of domestic economic activity.  Inflation ‘Hasn’t Eased’  Core inflation  shows consumer prices are increasing at a
pace more in line with annual inflation of 6 percent,  Jankiel
Santos , chief economist at Esprito Santo Investment Bank, said
in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.  Today’s IPCA report “shows inflation hasn’t eased at
all,” Santos said. “ Brazil  continues with an inflation outlook
that isn’t a bit pleasant.”  Core inflation, as measured by the central bank using its
double-weighted methodology, quickened last month to 0.53
percent from 0.50 percent, according to estimates by Espirito
Santo Investment Bank.  Breakeven rates, the difference between yields on 2015
inflation-linked and fixed rate bonds, show that traders are
wagering on average annual inflation of 5.7 percent over the
next four years, down from 6.2 percent at the end of September.  “The minutes indicate the continuation of moderate
adjustments,” Mauricio Nakahodo, senior economist at CM Capital
Market, said by phone from  Sao Paulo . “The market understands
the pace of cuts is not going to intensify.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  