-- 
Brazil Central Bank Says Inflation Outlook Improving Amid Global Crisis

-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-12-08T13:20:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/brazil-central-bank-says-inflation-outlook-improving-amid-global-crisis.html
Brazil’s inflation will slow to
“around” its target next year, allowing a continuation of
moderate interest rate cuts, central bank policy makers said in
the minutes of their last meeting.  The monetary authority last week reduced its benchmark
interest  rate  by half a percentage point to 11 percent, the
third consecutive cut to the Selic rate from 12.5 percent in
August. Economic growth will slow to 3.1 percent this year,
according the median estimate in a central bank survey of
economists published this week, from 7.5 percent last year.  “Even with a moderate adjustment of the level of basic
 interest rates , in the central scenario the inflation rate
stands around the 2012 target,” the central bank said in the
minutes of the Nov. 29-30 board meeting, published today on its
website, citing both slower global growth and “robust”
domestic demand.  The minutes support expectations the bank will continue
with half-percentage-point cuts, said Jose Goncalves, chief
economist at Banco Fator in Sao Paulo.  “It consolidates the trajectory of moderate cuts. I
continue with three more 50 basis-point cuts in the next three
meetings,” Goncalves said.  Inflation Accelerates  Brazil’s IPCA consumer price index quickened to 0.52
percent in November from 0.43 percent in October, prompting
traders to reduce bets for a 75 basis-point cut at the central
bank’s January policy meeting.  The yields on the interest rate futures contract maturing
in January 2013, the most trade in  Sao Paulo  today, rose seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 9.81 percent at 10.15
a.m. local time.  Traders are pricing in additional cuts totaling 1.5
percentage points by July, futures show.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is trying to
reignite growth with a mix of tax cuts, lower borrowing costs
and credit stimulus.  Gross domestic product  shrank for the first
time in 10 quarters in the three months ending in September,
prompting Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  to say that the
government will continue to take measures to make credit cheaper
and foster 5 percent growth next year.  Traders’ Bets  Traders are wagering policy makers will reduce rates by at
least 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage point, in January to
protect  Latin America ’s biggest economy from the financial
turmoil that has wiped out more than $6 trillion from  world
stock markets  since the end of July.  The real gained 0.4 percent to 1.7925 per  U.S. dollar  at
10:49 a.m. Brasilia time.  Gross domestic product contracted 0.04 percent in the third
quarter from the previous three months, the national statistics
agency said Dec. 6. The contraction, the first since the first
quarter of 2009, is equivalent to an annualized decline of 0.17
percent.  Even as growth slows, analysts forecast central bank
President Alexandre Tombini will fail to bring  inflation  back to
the target of 4.5 percent next year. Consumer price increases
have breached the upper end of the 2.5-to-6.5 percent target
range since April.  Slowing industrial production amid falling global demand
has been the main brake on economic activity, while a tight
labor market has helped sustain  Brazil ’s domestic consumer
demand, which remains robust and will pick up over the next
quarters due to rate cuts, the central bank said in the minutes.  Analysts expect consumer prices to rise 6.5 percent this
year and 5.5 percent in 2012, according to the median estimate
in the central bank survey of economists.  Breakeven rates, the difference between yields on 2015
inflation-linked and fixed rate bonds, show that traders are
wagering on average annual inflation of 5.7 percent over the
next four years, down from 6.2 percent at the end of September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  