-- 
Breitling Oil in Talks on Joint Shale-Gas Exploration in China

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-08T06:39:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/breitling-oil-in-talks-on-joint-shale-gas-exploration-in-china.html
Breitling Oil and Gas Corp. , an
independent U.S. energy producer, said it has held talks with a
Chinese  oil company  to jointly explore for shale gas in  China 
and to invest in the venture.  “We are eyeing a minority stake -- 25 percent will be
ideal,” Chief Executive Officer Chris Faulkner said in an
interview in Beijing today, declining to identify the company.
Irving, Texas-based Breitling plans to list in  New York  within
two years to help fund its global shale-gas expansion, he said.  Chinese companies are partnering with overseas explorers to
look for shale gas as China, estimated to hold more natural gas
trapped in the rock than the U.S., opens new areas for
development. PetroChina Co.’s parent agreed in June to form a
venture with Royal Dutch Shell Plc to reduce drilling time after
taking 11 months to complete the nation’s first shale well.  “Chinese  oil companies  do not care much about money --
they want technologies in developing shale gas,” Faulkner said.
“Negotiations have been going on for the entire year.”  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  and Henan Provincial Coal
Seam Gas Development and Utilization Co. won exploration rights
in the country’s first auction of shale-gas blocks, the Ministry
of Land and Resources said in July. China’s biggest oil
producers, including  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , have expressed interest in
joining a second round. Overseas explorers, barred from the
auctions, are in discussions to forge local ventures.  The company that the U.S. explorer has held talks with
plans to participate in this month’s auction, Faulkner said.
“We are interested in any shale-gas asset the company may get.
We especially like Sichuan Basin.”  Breitling currently drills in Texas, Louisiana and  Oklahoma .
A stake in a shale-gas project in China would help deepen the
company’s operations, Faulkner said.  It may take a decade before China sees meaningful shale gas
output as time is needed to gather geological data and gain
practical drilling experience, according to Faulkner. Chinese
companies don’t appear to be rushing the process, he said.  --Guo Aibing. Editors: Ryan Woo, Amit Prakash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Beijing at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 