-- 
Brown to Seek More Automatic Spending Cuts If Tax Increase Fails

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-12-08T20:33:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/brown-to-seek-more-automatic-budget-cuts-if-california-tax-increase-fails.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown  will
propose a second round of automatic spending cuts that would be
triggered if voters reject his proposal to temporarily increase
income and sales taxes.  Brown said he’ll include projected revenue from the tax
increase in the budget he’ll propose next month for the fiscal
year that begins July 1, even though voters won’t be able to
decide on the higher levies until November. That means if voters
say no, it would blow a bigger hole in a budget already facing a
$13 billion deficit. Automatic trigger cuts would be needed to
eliminate that shortfall, Brown said.  “We’re going balance the budget,” Brown said in an
interview in  Los Angeles  Dec. 6. “We’ll propose cuts and the
taxes, and if the taxes don’t materialize, I will propose we
have trigger cuts that go into effect immediately.”  California already faces automatic cuts if $4 billion in
revenue gains built into this year’s spending plan fail to
materialize. Higher education and services for the disabled
would be reduced if the state falls short of estimates by $1
billion. The equivalent of seven days would be cut out of the
school year if the shortfall is $2 billion or more.  Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat, is pressing for a ballot
initiative to increase revenue $7 billion a year by temporarily
raising income taxes on those making more than $250,000 a year
and boosting the statewide  sales tax  by a 0.5 percentage point
to 7.75 percent.  Tax Collections  California tax collections since the start of the fiscal
year have trailed projections by about $1 billion, the state
controller’s office said today.  The state Legislative Analyst’s Office projected that
revenue for the year will be $3.7 billion behind budget
estimates that Brown used to help close what was a $26 billion
deficit after Republicans blocked extensions of expiring taxes.  Brown’s finance department, which is developing its own
revenue estimate, is expected to announce next week how much
cuts will be needed.  “We hacked a $26 billion deficit down to about $10 billion
and we’re going to take out the rest of it with more cuts and
hopefully some temporary taxes,” Brown said.  The governor proposed raising levies on individuals making
$250,000 a year or more to 10.3 percent, from 9.3 percent. For
those earning $300,000 to $500,000, it would climb to 10.8
percent from 9.3 percent. For single filers with income above
$500,000, the rate would climb to 11.3 percent from 9.3 percent.
Californians with income of more than $1 million are now taxed
at 10.3 percent.  Brown said Republican lawmakers who opposed tax extensions
he sought earlier this year are “losing touch with the majority
of the people.”  “They’ve got a lot of Tea Party influence,” Brown said.
“Even when we talk to them privately, they’d like to invest in
our schools but they’re scared to death of a few of the more
extreme elements.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net .
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  