-- 
Buchan’s Hunter Global to Return Cash in $1 Billion Hedge Fund

-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 
2011-12-08T18:54:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/buchan-s-hunter-global-to-return-cash-in-1-billion-hedge-fund.html
Hunter Global Investors LP, the $1
billion hedge fund run by Duke Buchan III, is returning capital
to investors following poor performance this year, according to
a letter sent to clients.  “The past year, particularly the last four months, has
been frustrating,” Buchan said in the letter, a copy of which
was obtained by Bloomberg News. “Our recent drawdown does not
meet our organizational or my personal expectations.”  Hunter, which outperformed U.S. stocks by 46 percent from
its inception in 2001 through March 31, according to the letter,
has struggled this year as market swings driven by  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis undermined asset selection, Buchan said.
Industrywide, hedge-fund liquidations last quarter rose to the
highest since the start of 2010, according to a report today by
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Buchan, who didn’t give returns for later months in 2011,
said clients will receive a “substantial portion” of their
money in January. The firm’s investments are mostly “liquid”
with the exception of a holding in Aveta Inc., which represents
about 3.6 percent of each of Hunter’s funds.  Buchan founded the New York-based long-short equity fund
and serves as its chief investment officer and primary portfolio
manager. Before founding Hunter, he was a managing director at
Maverick Capital Ltd. and served as the sector head of its
global financial services group. Before that, he was a vice
president at Merrill Lynch & Co. in  New York , where he also
specialized in corporate finance and mergers and acquisitions in
the  United States , Europe and  Latin America .  ‘Personal Decision’  “My decision is a personal one,” Buchan said in the
letter. “It has been distressing for me to know, despite our
best efforts, the extent to which our recent drawdown has
impacted you.”  Hedge-fund liquidations climbed to 213 in the third quarter
from 191 in the second quarter and 168 a year ago, according to
HFR. Hedge funds fell 1 percent on average in November, bringing
this year’s loss to 3.8 percent, according to Bloomberg’s
aggregate hedge-fund index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  