-- 
Bush Meets Jolie, Coldplay Rocks, Rioters Rant: London Weekend

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-12-08T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/bush-meets-jolie-coldplay-rocks-choc-heaven-riot-staged-london-weekend.html
The hyperactive  Chris Martin  and his
friends in Coldplay bring their world tour to London tomorrow.  The British quartet is pushing its latest CD “Mylo Xyloto,”
which is full of the gently uplifting rock songs that have
helped notch up more than 50 million in record sales.  The band is also reprising its greatest hits from “Viva La
Vida” to “Clocks” and “Yellow” -- tunes which have overcome
some critical attacks to become stadium favorites with their
singalong melodies.  O2, Peninsula Sq., SE10 0DX, Dec. 9 and 10, with supports
including Emeli Sande. Information: +44-20-8463-2000,
 http://www.coldplay.com/live.php  or  http://www.theo2.co.uk .  Saturday  George W. Bush  has been sighted on Savile Row -- and he
wasn’t getting measured for a suit.  The ex-president stars in artist  Paul McCarthy ’s messy
“Pig Island” installation at the Hauser & Wirth Gallery.
Bush’s pink effigy repeatedly pops up among shattered easels,
mutilated swine, empty fast-food buckets, and a photo of
 Angelina Jolie .  McCarthy’s orgiastic environments remind you of Hieronymus
Bosch. If you can stomach it, walk to the gallery’s adjacent
wing to see two more Bush figures in a mechanized installation
with pigs.  “The King, The Island, The Train, The House, The Ship” by
Paul McCarthy is at Hauser & Wirth’s Piccadilly-area galleries 
through Jan. 14, 2012. Information:  http://www.hauserwirth.com 
or +44-20-7287-2300.  Franco’s, on nearby Jermyn Street, is an Italian restaurant
with so many regulars, it’s like a private club. It’s been in
business for more than 60 years and is open for breakfast, lunch
and dinner, plus cocktails. Information: +44-20-7499-2211 or
 http://www.francoslondon.com/ .  Saturday Night  Four months after rioters kicked, smashed, and looted their
way around some British cities, the London stage offers its take
on events.  Writer Gillian Slovo has interviewed protesters, police
officers, residents, activists and politicians to come up with
“The Riots” at the  Tricycle Theatre . Their responses are
delivered word for word by a cast of 14 actors; chairs and a
table are the only decor. Everyone is named except the rioter-
looters, who are dubbed Man 1, Man 2, and Man 3.  Timely, if not a perfectly balanced piece of journalism.
“The Riots” ends Saturday at the Tricycle Theatre, 269 Kilburn
High Road, NW6 7JR. Information:  http://www.tricycle.co.uk  or
+44-20-7328-1000.  Sunday  Chocolate dim sum, anyone?  It’s one of the delights at the  Chocolate Festival  this
weekend. Guest chefs teach you how to throw together chocolate-
based recipes, pick the right winter drink to go with them, and
savor chocolate the way you would a fine bottle of wine.  At Southbank Centre Square, behind Royal Festival Hall.
Information:  http://www.festivalchocolate.co.uk .  While there, you can hear Russian-born Vladimir Ashkenazy
conduct the Philharmonia Orchestra and French pianist Jean-
Efflam Bavouzet in a matinee performance of Debussy (“La
Mer”), Ravel, and Manuel De Falla.  Ashkenazy will sign CDs afterwards. The 3 p.m. concert at
Royal Festival Hall is part of the orchestra’s Sunday matinee
series:  http://www.southbankcentre.co.uk  or +44-844-847-9910.  When visiting the Southbank, it’s worth considering a walk
across Waterloo Bridge to eat at Mishkin’s, the latest venue of
restaurateur  Russell Norman , the owner of Polpo and Polpetto.
Mishkin’s is crowded and inexpensive and it’s in the style of a
New York deli, with salt-beef sandwiches and hot dogs.
Information: +44-20-7240-2078 or  http://www.mishkins.co.uk/   (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 