-- 
Cambridge-Oxford Rugby Tradition Renewed by Barclays Trader as Line Judge

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-12-08T00:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/cambridge-oxford-rugby-tradition-renewed-by-barclays-trader-as-line-judge.html
The 139-year rugby rivalry between
 Cambridge University  and Oxford University is steeped in
traditions. Former Cambridge captain Ross Blake is helping to
bring one of them back.  Blake and Joe Roff, who won the 1999  World Cup  with
 Australia , will act as assistant referees in today’s 130th
Varsity Match at Twickenham Stadium in London as organizers
renew a custom of ex-captains helping the match official.
Professionals took over after the 1997 game.  “These sort of traditions are important to that game,”
Blake, a metals trader at  Barclays Capital  in London, said in a
telephone interview. “This game has historical significance to
some people and it’s good they go back.”  Blake, 31, was part of two victorious Cambridge teams,
including 2007 when he led the Light Blues to a 22-16 win. He’ll
be joined as assistant referee by Roff, his Oxford counterpart
four years ago, whom he credits with helping revive the
tradition.  “By all accounts, he was the one pushing for the old
captains to come back,” Blake said. “This year was deemed the
right time to try something different. They asked Joe and I was
lucky to be captain against him.”  Blake and Roff will wear their old university caps and
blazers for today’s match, which is sponsored by brokerage firm
 Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  They’ll also get a brief course on their
job from  England ’s Rugby Football Union before working with
match referee Dave Pearson.  The sport went professional in the mid-1990s, and the RFU
rather than the two teams started appointing the officials. The
RFU named the referee this year and the former captains were
drafted back.  “We’re not qualified referees, but we’ll try to add any
help we can,” said Blake, who has been with Barclays since
2008.  All-Time Series  Cambridge leads the all-time series 61 to 54 with 14 draws,
though Oxford has taken two of the past three matches, including
last year’s 21-10 triumph. Cambridge has won seven of its 13
games this season, while Oxford has four wins in 10.  Blake originally planned to watch from the Twickenham
stands, but will now be a bit closer to the action. He’s likely
to pay extra attention to the player in the No. 9 shirt for the
Light Blues, his brother Don.  “That’s added interest in the game,” he said. “He’s
worked hard all season and is lucky enough to start. Hopefully
he comes away with a win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 