-- 
Canada’s Rae Says Takeover Curbs Should Be Limited After Potash

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-12-08T05:01:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/canada-s-rae-says-takeover-curbs-should-be-limited-after-potash.html
Canadian Liberal Party interim Leader
Bob Rae said the governing Conservatives should keep foreign
investment restrictions “fairly limited” as they look at
revising takeover rules following last year’s rejection of  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s bid for  Potash (POT)  Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  Industry Minister Christian Paradis said in a Dec. 2
interview he is open to changing the country’s foreign takeover
law to provide more “certainty” to investors. Canada reviews
foreign acquisitions of companies with assets valued at more
than C$312 million ($309 million) under the Investment Canada
Act to determine whether they are a “net benefit” to the
country.  “The problem with where we stand now is we are going to be
constantly accused of simply improvising,” Rae, 63, said in an
interview last night in Bloomberg’s Ottawa newsroom. “I would
have a fairly limited list, I wouldn’t be one to say this is
something which should be used to stop absolutely everything.”  Canada ’s policy for weighing takeovers is “highly
subjective and unpredictable,” the Toronto-based C.D. Howe
Institute said in a  study  released earlier this month. The
system, which is more restrictive than in countries such as
 Australia , may have contributed to the decline in Canada’s share
of global foreign-direct investment over the last 30 years, said
Philippe Bergevin and Daniel Schwanen, the study’s authors.  Rae said he would recommend that restrictions focus on
takeovers that threaten “sovereignty” or “national
security.” He would oppose rules that keep Chinese companies
from taking majority ownership of energy companies.  Interim Leader  “I don’t think we should declare these investments to be
necessarily out of bounds,” Rae said.  Rae, a Rhodes Scholar and former premier of Ontario, was
named interim leader after a May election where the Liberals
posted their worst-ever result. Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ,
who won his first majority government in the vote, claimed
during the campaign the Liberals would undermine the country’s
recovery by undoing corporate tax cuts.  Canada reduced the corporate income tax rate by 1.5
percentage points to 16.5 percent on Jan. 1, and it will lower
it again next month to 15 percent.  Rae said the cuts, which the  Liberals opposed  during the
election campaign, haven’t worked to boost investment.  “The corporate sector is in remarkable shape,” Rae said.
“I’m not quite sure what just generalized tax cuts are going to
do to create a more positive climate or environment for
growth.”  Investment Tax Credits  Targeted investment tax credits would work better, he said.
One option to boost growth could be to raise corporate tax rates
while offsetting the increase by providing such credits to give
companies an incentive to invest, Rae said.  Under such a system, “the only people who are going to be
paying more are people who are sitting on their assets” Rae
said.  Rae said the Liberals need to regain credibility on the
economy, and have begun to examine policy ideas on taxation.  “We have to improve the public’s perception of us and the
economy to begin to make other kinds of progress,” Rae said.
“I don’t feel this government has a complete handle on what to
do or how to do it,” on the economy.  The May election also saw the pro-labor  New Democratic
Party  surpass the Liberals as the  second-largest  group in the
House of Commons, a major setback for a party that had won 19 of
the 29 general elections held from 1900 to 2000. The Liberals
have scheduled a convention in Ottawa next month, where they
will discuss “radical” changes to fundraising, internal
organization and party membership rules, according to a party
discussion paper.  “We aren’t licking our wounds, we’re just getting our act
together and getting it done,” Rae said of the convention.  Asked if his party can regroup quickly enough to regain
power, Rae said “absolutely, things change very quickly in
politics,” citing the party’s rapid decline in the polls in the
last two weeks of the election campaign.  “You say well if that can happen it can go the other way
pretty quickly too,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  