-- 
Canada’s Dollar Strengthens as Option Traders Turn Less Bearish

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-12-08T13:09:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/canada-s-dollar-strengthens-as-option-traders-turn-less-bearish.html
Canada ’s dollar rose against a
majority of its most traded counterparts and strengthened versus
the U.S. currency as options traders turned less bearish on the
currency on speculation it may benefit from rising oil prices
and North American economic growth.  Canada’s dollar, nicknamed the loonie, traded at almost the
highest since September against the euro after the  European
Central Bank  cut the benchmark rate by a quarter-percentage
point. Crude oil stayed above $100 a barrel.  “The Canadian dollar can probably hold up better than its
commodity-currency peers,” said  Ian Stannard , head of European
foreign-exchange strategy at Morgan Stanley in  London , in a
telephone interview. “Canada is far less exposed to  Asia , far
more exposed to the U.S. where the data flow has been slightly
better recently. That maybe points to a slightly more robust
picture in  North America .”  Canada’s currency rose 0.1 percent to C$1.0085 per U.S.
dollar at 8:03 a.m. in Toronto. It rose against 12 of its 16
most-traded peers. One Canadian dollar buys 99.17 U.S. cents.  The one-month 25-delta risk reversal rate, which measures
the premium charged for the right to buy the U.S. dollar in one
month against the loonie over contracts to sell, fell to 1.99
percentage points today, the lowest level since Sept. 19.  ECB Target Rate  ECB policy makers meeting in  Frankfurt  lowered the
benchmark  interest rate  by a quarter percentage point to 1
percent to match a record low, as expected by 55 of 58
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. They may also loosen
collateral criteria to give banks greater access to cheap cash
and offer longer-term loans, said three euro-area officials with
knowledge of the deliberations. ECB President Mario Draghi will
hold a press conference.  “A 25 basis point cut will have very little impact,” said
Morgan Stanley’s Stannard, before the rate announcement. “The
overall picture is still quite negative regardless of the
actions we see coming from the ECB.”  Stannard predicted the euro will fall to the C$1.32 to
C$1.31 “over the course of the next few weeks, heading into the
next year,” he said.  The euro dropped today 0.1 percent to C$1.35282 after
touching C$1.3498, the lowest level since September.  “For the longer term I think we can even look for a much
bigger move lower in euro-Cad,” he said, referring to the euro-
Canadian dollar exchange rate.  Canada’s government bonds were little changed, with the
yield on the benchmark two-year debt unchanged at 0.91 percent.
The price of the 1 percent security due in February 2014 dropped
1 cent to C$100.20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax,  Nova Scotia , at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  