-- 
Canada October New House Price Index Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-12-08T13:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/canada-october-new-house-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the new house  price index  report for October released by
 Statistics Canada .  The New Housing Price Index (NHPI) rose 0.2% in October,
following a similar increase in September.  Evolution of the New Housing Price Index  The metropolitan regions of Toronto and Oshawa, and Edmonton
were the top contributors to the increase in October. The positive
impact of these metropolitan regions on the overall index was
offset in part by decreases observed in Vancouver and Victoria.  Between September and October, Edmonton (+0.6%) posted the
largest monthly price advance, followed by Toronto and Oshawa
(+0.4%).  In Edmonton, price increases were primarily the result of
higher material and labour costs as well as higher land values. In
Toronto and Oshawa, some builders cited good market conditions as
the main reason for their price increases.  In October, prices were unchanged in 9 of the 21 metropolitan
regions surveyed.  The most significant monthly price declines were recorded in
Victoria (-0.6%) and Saskatoon (-0.3%).  Some builders in Victoria reported that the primary reason for
their price decreases was having lowered their prices to stimulate
sales.  In Saskatoon, a few builders reported reducing their prices
because of slower market conditions. These reductions were
partially offset by increases in material costs.  Year over year, the NHPI was up 2.5% in October. The main
contributor to this advance was the metropolitan region of Toronto
and Oshawa.  The largest year-over-year price increases were in Toronto and
Oshawa, and in Winnipeg (both up 5.6%).  Toronto and Oshawa, and Winnipeg post the highest year-over-year
price increases  Compared with October 2010, contractors’ selling prices were
also higher in Regina (+5.1%) and  St. John’s  (+4.1%).  Among the 21 metropolitan regions surveyed, 4 posted 12-month
price declines in October, led by Windsor (-3.3%) and Victoria (-
1.9%).  Note: The New Housing Price Index measures changes over time in
the selling prices of new residential houses agreed upon between
the contractor and the buyer at the time of the signing of the
contract. It is designed to measure the changes in the selling
prices of new houses where detailed specifications pertaining to
each house remain the same between two consecutive periods. The
prices collected from builders and included in the index are
market selling prices less value added taxes, such as the Federal
Goods and Services Tax or the Harmonized Sales Tax.  This release presents data that are not seasonally adjusted and
the indexes published are final.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  