-- 
CardioMems Fails to Wins FDA Panel Backing for Implanted Heart Monitor

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-12-09T00:05:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/cardiomems-fails-to-wins-fda-panel-backing-for-implanted-heart-monitor.html
CardioMems Inc ., the heart-device
maker partly owned by  St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) , failed to win a
U.S. panel’s backing to sell a first-of-its-kind implant to
monitor patients for signs of heart failure.  The product’s benefits don’t outweigh its risks, outside
advisers to the  Food and Drug Administration  said today in a 6-4
vote in Gaithersburg,  Maryland . The FDA isn’t required to follow
the recommendations.  The device from closely held Atlanta-based CardioMems would
be the first permanent implant for monitoring people with
advanced heart failure, FDA staff said in a Dec. 5 report. If
approved, it may open a market of about 1.3 million U.S.
patients and sell for about $4,000, according to an analysis by
Bloomberg Industries.  “This device is incredibly innovative and almost on the
border of disruptive technology in the management of heart
failure,” panel member  Ralph Brindis , a cardiologist at Kaiser
Permanente’s Oakland Medical Center in  California , said before
the vote. “I feel very comfortable that the device is safe, but
I don’t think we’ve proved totally its effectiveness.”  St. Jude, based in  St. Paul ,  Minnesota , invested $60
million in CardioMems in September 2010 in exchange for a 19
percent ownership stake and an exclusive option to acquire the
company for an additional $375 million.  St. Jude declined 4.3 percent to $35.83 at the close today
in  New York . The shares have dropped 16 percent this year.  Blood-Pressure  Data  The  device  is designed to monitor blood pressure in the
pulmonary artery, and wirelessly transmit that data to a
CardioMems website for review by a patient’s doctor.  Studies showed the product met its primary goal of reducing
hospitalizations related to heart failure, FDA staff reviewers
said in a Dec. 5  report  that questioned the “clinical
significance” of the findings.  About 20 percent of patients who had the implant were
hospitalized within six months of the procedure, compared with
29 percent of those in a control group. The efficacy data may
have been skewed by bias in the way the trial was conducted, FDA
staff said.  CardioMems nurses who monitored patients with the implant
routinely contacted study sites, based on data from the device,
to suggest “extra interventions” for some patients that may
have prevented the need for hospitalization, said Gregory
Campbell, director of biostatistics at the FDA’s Center for
Devices and Radiological Health.  ‘Possible Bias’  “The possible bias,” Campbell told the panel, “is of
serious concern here.” The “extra care” provided only to
patients who received the device “could have produced some or
all of the significant effectiveness results seen in this
trial.”  CardioMems would offer “real-world” doctors the type of
support system it provided for physicians in the trial, said Jay Yadav, the company’s founder and chief executive officer.  “The full intention is to commercialize what’s in the
study,” Yadav told the panel today. “Why would you do
something different?”  The product, known as the Champion HF Monitoring System,
would help doctors manage the “very challenging public health
problem” of  heart disease , he said.  “The risk is exceedingly small for a permanent implant,”
he said. “The benefit is compelling, and it increases over
time.”  Jeffrey Borer, the panel’s temporary chairman, said while
the device seemed to help patients, measuring that benefit was
difficult because of the trial conduct.  “It does appear that there was bias,” Borer, chief of
cardiovascular medicine at SUNY Downstate Medical Center in
 Brooklyn , New York, said before the vote. “It does appear,
nonetheless, that something good happened, but we can’t tell you
exactly why.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  