-- 
McDonald’s November Sales Rise 7.4% on Strength in Asia

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-12-08T21:14:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/mcdonald-s-november-store-sales-beat-estimates-on-strength-in-japan-china.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest
restaurant chain, said sales at stores open at least 13 months
rose 7.4 percent globally last month, driven by demand in Japan
and China.  Analysts forecast a gain of 5 percent, the average of five
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales in Asia, Africa and the
Middle East advanced 8.1 percent, the most since December last
year, the Oak Brook, Illinois-based company said today in a
statement. Analysts projected a gain of 5.9 percent.  Chief Executive Officer James Skinner has sought to compete
with  Yum! Brands Inc. ’s KFC and Pizza Hut chains in China by
accelerating store growth. McDonald’s will open as many as 250
locations in  China  in 2012 and has opportunities to grow in
other Asian nations including South Korea,  Taiwan  and  Hong Kong ,
Chief Financial Officer Peter Bensen said at an investor meeting
last month.  “China is big enough and there’s enough runway for growth
for both” McDonald’s and Yum, Peter Saleh, an analyst at Telsey
Advisory Group in  New York , said today in an interview. Right
now, McDonald’s is focused on opening free-standing locations
with drive-throughs while Yum is in more strip malls, he said.  McDonald’s rose 0.5 percent to $96.92 at the close in New
York. The shares have climbed 26 percent this year.  Surging Costs  Sales in all regions topped estimates, helped by peppermint
mochas and chicken McNuggets in the U.S. and promotions in
 Europe . Both U.S. and European sales rose 6.5 percent. Analysts
were expecting growth of 5 percent and 4.3 percent respectively.  Asia, Africa and the  Middle East  account for more than 20
percent of McDonald’s revenue. About one-third comes from U.S.
restaurants.  McDonald’s, along with other restaurants, is facing surging
ingredient costs and has raised menu prices this year. Commodity
inflation will be as much as 5.5 percent in the U.S. and 3.5
percent in Europe during 2012, Bensen said last month.  Comparable, or same-store, sales are an indicator of a
company’s growth because they include only older restaurants.
McDonald’s October comparable-store sales increased 5.5 percent
globally.  There are about 33,100 McDonald’s locations worldwide, more
than 80 percent of which are franchised.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  