-- 
LCH Lowers Cost to Trade Italian Bonds as EU Begins to Meet

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-12-08T00:09:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/lch-lowers-cost-to-trade-italian-bonds-as-eu-begins-to-meet.html
LCH Clearnet SA,  Europe ’s biggest
clearinghouse, lowered the extra deposit it demands from clients
to trade Italian government bonds as European Union officials
prepare to meet to address the region’s debt crisis.  The margin needed for Italian bonds due in seven to 10
years will be lowered to 8.15 percent, LCH Clearnet said in a
document on its  website  dated yesterday. That compares with a
charge of 11.65 percent announced on Nov. 8. The reduced costs
will be applied at the close of trading for all bonds, with the
amount based on maturity. Italy’s Cassa Compensazione e
Garanzia SpA also said it changed the margin, or deposit, it
charges clients to trade Italian  government bonds .  Governments from Italy to  Spain  are cutting spending to
reduce bond yields that reached euro-area records of more than 7
percent last month. The cost of insuring euro zone government
bonds against default also rose to a record on Nov. 25 on
concern a member of the single currency would default. The
Markit Itraxx Sovx Western Europe index of credit-default swaps
on 15 governments was at 326 basis points in  London  on Dec. 6,
down from its peak of 385, according to Markit prices.  “This shows they are getting more comfortable given the
big move in Italian yields,” said  George Goncalves , head of
interest rate strategy in New York at Nomura Holdings Inc., one
of 21 primary dealers that trade directly with the  Federal
Reserve . “There are still a lot of things that can go wrong,
but the market is growing more cautiously optimistic about
Europe’s problems.”  Deposit Factor  The so-called deposit factor for Italian bonds due in seven
to 10 years will be 8.15 percent starting today, Borsa
Italiana’s CC&G said in a document on its website yesterday.
That compares with 11.65 percent on Nov. 9.  Austerity measures announced by governments in Italy and
 France  have reduced 10-year yields to 5.99 percent and 3.21
percent, respectively, from as high as 7.48 percent and 3.82
percent in November.  The  European Central Bank  may announce a range of measures
today to stimulate bank lending, three euro-area officials with
knowledge of policy makers’ deliberations said yesterday.  Italy ’s debt-to-gross-domestic-product ratio was 118
percent last year, according to Eurostat.  Options on the table include loosening collateral criteria
so that institutions have more access to cheap ECB cash and
offering them longer-term loans to grease the flow of credit to
the economy, said the officials, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the discussions are private.  EU Summit  French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor
Angela Merkel proposed amending European treaties to tighten
rules on deficit spending and water down provisions demanding
investor losses. In a joint letter to European Union President
 Herman Van Rompuy , the leaders said they want a decision at an
EU summit so that the measures can be ready by March 2012.  Italian government bonds have lost 5 percent this year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes,
underperforming the 5.1 percent return in the so-called Group of
Seven countries.  Clearinghouses guarantee investors’ trades are completed by
standing in the middle of two counterparties, and raise margin
requirements to protect themselves against losses should one
side of the trade fail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  