-- 
Theron’s Monster Chases Prom-Queen Glory; New Year’s Dud: Film

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-12-08T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/charlize-s-monster-chases-prom-queen-glory-new-year-s-fiasco-greg-evans.html
Charlize Theron’s latest monster,
Mavis Gary, is not a murderer. Her admirable qualities pretty
much end there.  A once and forever high-school mean girl, Mavis is the
singular creation of screenwriter Diablo Cody and her “Juno”
director Jason Reitman.  “ Young Adult ” chronicles Mavis’s efforts to recapture her
prom-queen glory days by reconnecting with a former beau. It
features a crazy good performance by Theron, who won an Oscar for
playing a serial killer in 2003’s “Monster.”  Reminded that the object of her stalker-like affection is a
happily married man with a newborn child, Mavis’s soused response
is a clueless, “I’ve got baggage, too.”  “Young Adult” takes its title from the teen-lit genre that
has afforded ghostwriter Mavis a glamorous-from-the-outside life.
Gorgeous at 37, with the style and figure of a college student,
the divorcee lives alone in a  Minneapolis  high-rise, where she
drinks, writes and sleeps around before waking up with a hangover
to begin the routine anew.  On deadline for what will be the last entry of her once-
popular book series, Mavis receives an e-mailed birth
announcement from high-school sweetheart Buddy Slade ( Patrick Wilson ). Like a heroine in one of her books, lonely Mavis heads
back to her small Minnesota hometown to reclaim Buddy and their
prom-royalty destiny.  Hate-Crime Victim  Her first night home Mavis visits a seedy saloon, where she
runs into another old classmate, the barely remembered Matt
Freehauf (comic Patton Oswalt, in a career-redefining
performance). Dumpy, nerdy and smart, Matt has one claim to high-
school fame: Mistaken for gay, he was bashed nearly to death, his
body irreparably twisted and maimed.  “Oh, you’re the hate-crime guy,” says Mavis, the memory
rising through a boozy fog.  With high school 20 years behind them, Mavis and Matt form a
weeklong bond that would have been impossible in their youth.
Both are too savvy to be duped by sentimentality -- they mock the
idea of being another “Will & Grace” -- but their spirits are no
less kindred for being broken and self-pitying.  This darkly funny and surprisingly moving film finds no
lasting redemption for Mavis. People don’t outgrow themselves,
Cody suggests, and life doesn’t bash everyone equally.  “Young Adult,” from  Paramount Pictures , opens tomorrow in
New York,  Los Angeles ,  San Francisco ,  Chicago  and Minneapolis.
Rating: ***1/2  ‘New Year’s Eve’  What did holidays ever do to Garry Marshall?  Following last year’s confoundedly popular “Valentine’s
Day,” the director’s even lamer “ New Year’s Eve ” stitches
together a “Love Boat”-style array of slumming stars and striving
B-listers in transparent quick-buck fashion.  Sarah Jessica Parker,  Robert De Niro , Hilary Swank, Zac Efron, Michelle Pfeiffer, Halle Berry and  Katherine Heigl  are
among the platoon of actors going through the motions of
interconnected, idiotic storylines centered on New Year’s Eve in
Times Square. (Street footage was shot at last year’s
festivities.)  Parker, for example, plays a single mother facing a lonely
holiday when her teenage daughter (Abigail Breslin) wants to go
on a date.  Josh Duhamel  plays a lovelorn Manhattan guy hoping to
meet Ms. Right.  Guess the rest.  Katherine Fugate’s howler of a screenplay -- characters
navigate the chaos of Times Square with superhuman ease -- is on
par with middling Lifetime filler. The New York of “New Year’s
Eve” is mostly white, upscale and entirely sober; the only
concession to the 21st century is Lea Michele’s preposterous
“Glee”-like musical moment.  Hard to begrudge her, though, since she’s spent most of the
movie trapped in an elevator with a smug  Ashton Kutcher .  “New Year’s Eve,” from  Warner Bros. Pictures , opens tomorrow
across the country. Rating: *1/2  ‘The Sitter’  A pre-weight loss Jonah Hill proves that bigger isn’t always
funnier in “ The Sitter .”  With nods to “Adventures in Babysitting” and “Risky
Business,” this laugh-starved comedy casts Hill as Noah, a
suspended college student who finds himself baby-sitting three
maladjusted kids.  The good-hearted sitter only wants to do what’s right, even
if it means dragging his precocious charges on a cocaine-buying
errand that spurs one unfunny misadventure after another.  Director David Gordon Green (“Pineapple Express”) finds no
rhythm in  New York ’s mean streets. Worse, the ethnic stereotypes,
vulgar jokes and drug humor give way to mawkish moralizing long
before an out-of-his-depth Hill delivers an inspirational speech
to a 13-year-old gay kid.  “The Sitter,” from 20th Century Fox, opens tomorrow
across the country. Rating: *1/2  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Greg Evans  at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 