-- 
China’s Yuan Strengthens as PBOC Raises Reference Rate by Most in a Week

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-12-08T08:58:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/china-yuan-strengthens-after-central-bank-raises-reference-rate.html
The yuan gained for the first time in
four days as the central bank raised its  reference rate  for the
currency by the most this week.  The People’s Bank of  China  set the daily fixing 0.04
percent stronger at 6.3319 per dollar, 0.5 percent higher than
the currency’s close yesterday. The yuan’s appreciation trend
won’t change in the medium- to long-term, China Securities
Journal reported today, citing Wang Guogang, the Beijing-based
head of the finance and banking institute at the  Chinese Academy
of Social Sciences .  “The stronger fixing sends signals to the market that yuan
depreciation is not on the agenda,” said Banny Lam, a Hong
Kong-based economist at CCB International Securities Ltd., a
unit of China’s second-largest bank. “Investors are buying the
yuan as they see the rate is now more favorable. Concerns over
economic growth remain so the gains could be limited.”  The yuan rose 0.04 percent to close at 6.3619 per dollar in
 Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
It touched 6.3636 earlier, at the weak end of its permitted
trading range. The currency is allowed to fluctuate as much as
0.5 percent on either side of the PBOC’s  fixing .  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan advanced 0.21
percent to 6.3640 per dollar, the biggest gain since Nov. 11.
Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards slipped 0.07 percent to
6.3955, a 0.5 percent discount to the onshore spot rate.  Reserves Decline  Slowing global economic growth and easing inflationary
pressures have eroded the case for “significant” yuan gains in
the next few quarters, Standard Chartered Plc economists  Stephen Green ,  Robert Minikin  and Wei Li, wrote in a report dated
yesterday. The “suddenly weak” yuan is the result of slumping
demand for the currency from importers and exporters rather than
from “hot-money” outflows, they wrote.  China’s foreign-exchange reserves continued to fall this
month,  Li Yang , a former adviser to the People’s Bank of China,
told an economic forum yesterday.  “Our foreign reserves started to decline from the end of
September, then in October, November and as of this month, are
basically falling every day,” said Li, now a vice president at
the government-backed Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, which
does research and analysis on public policy.  “The yuan could fall in the non-deliverable forwards
market if the decline in reserves is confirmed,” wrote Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB,
in a note to clients today. The declines in foreign-exchange
reserves “would likely reflect real deficits in the balance of
payments,” Kowalczyk wrote.  China’s world-record  foreign-exchange reserves  increased
the least in more than a decade last quarter and  declined  in
September for the first time in 16 months, according to the
central bank, which releases the data on a quarterly basis. Li
didn’t say how he knew that foreign reserves were falling or
give a reason for the declines.  -- With assistance from Li Yanping in Beijing. Editors: Andrew Janes,  James Regan   To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  