-- 
China Life Falls as N.Y. Index Extends Decline: China Overnight

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-12-08T22:58:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/china-life-declines-as-n-y-index-extends-losing-streak-china-overnight.html
U.S.-listed Chinese stocks fell the
most in two weeks as  China  Life Insurance Co. dropped on concern
industrial output in the world’s second largest economy slowed,
and European leaders struggle to resolve the continent’s debt
crisis.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
stocks slid 2 percent to 97.97 at the close in  New York , the
benchmark’s steepest decline since Nov. 23.  China Life Insurance
Co. (LFC)  fell 5 percent and traded at the biggest discount in two
weeks to the Hong Kong stock as competitor New China Life
Insurance Co. sold shares near the bottom of a marketed range.
 E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  rose 20 percent, the most in half
a year, on reports that it will introduce an e-book platform.
 Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD)  jumped 9.1 percent after saying
it may exceed a revenue forecast.  A Chinese government report today may show  industrial
output  increasing at the slowest pace since August 2009,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg. European
regulators said the region’s banks need to raise more capital,
while the  European Central Bank  damped speculation it will
increase bond purchases.  “The Chinese are going to get down to a 4 percent growth
rate in panic,” David Roche, president of Independent Strategy
and a former Morgan Stanley global strategist, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. Growth will slow as the
nation tries to deflate a credit bubble, he said. “Don’t expect
it not to be volatile next year. It’s going to be quite tough.”  Decline in Competitiveness  China’s economy  will expand 8.5 percent next year even as
export growth is pulled down by weak demand and a decline in the
nation’s competitiveness, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said in a Nov. 28 report.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , which tracks the domestic
bourse, dropped 0.1 percent to 2,329.82. The index is little
changed since the central bank’s decision Nov. 30 to reduce
 reserve requirements  for the first time since 2008. The  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , which tracks Chinese companies
listed in Hong Kong, fell 0.9 percent to 10,395.37.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index is valued at 11.1 times
estimated earnings, while the Bloomberg index of U.S.-listed
Chinese companies trades at 12.8 times next year’s earnings.  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 index of U.S. stocks dropped 2.1
percent to 1,234.35 as the European Central Bank damped
speculation that it would increase debt purchases to fight the
region’s crisis.  China Life  Beijing-based China Life fell to $39.80 while  Hong Kong 
shares declined 2.3 percent to HK$21.25, or the equivalent of
$2.73. One ADR represents 15 ordinary shares. The New York
shares trade at an 8 cent discount per Hong Kong share, the
biggest such gap in two weeks.  The American depositary receipts of  China Mobile Ltd., (CHL)  the
world’s largest mobile-phone company by subscribers, fell 1
percent to $47.98, a 12 cent discount to the Hong Kong shares,
which fell 0.5 percent to HK$75.55, or the equivalent of $9.72.
Each ADR is worth five ordinary shares.  Spreadtrum, a maker of mobile phone chipsets, gained the
most in two months after saying it is “on track to meet or
exceed” a fourth-quarter revenue forecast of $188 million to
$194 million. The shares recovered after dropping 22 percent
this week on concern that selling prices and sales of some chips
had fallen.  Dangdang  Dangdang, the nation’s largest online book retailer, gained
the most in the Bloomberg Chinese stock benchmark, advancing to
$5.57 and trimming its decline for the year to 79 percent. The
Beijing News reported Dangdang plans to launch an e-book
platform this month to provide 50,000 electronic books.  “The digital platform is a positive for the company,”
said Andy Yeung, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York.
“Dangdang is entering a phase that Amazon was in before. When
you’re building a platform, it’s not generating profit and the
margin is small. The stock may search for direction until people
can see the leverage of the business model or a ramp-up in
sales.”  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  gained 7.7 percent to $4.61, extending its
rise this month to 30 percent, as a China debt sale makes
investors optimistic that the company has enough cash to
continue operating. The company sold 500 million  yuan  ($79
million) of three-year domestic bonds on Dec. 7.  ‘Deteriorating’ Economy  Global investors are souring on Chinese stocks, according
to a Bloomberg poll this week. Just 21 percent of global
investors called China one of the best places to invest over the
next year, compared with 44 percent in a 2009 survey. Most
global investors predict the country will face a banking crisis
by late 2016, a Bloomberg Global Poll indicated.  A plurality of 46 percent of investors described the
Chinese economy as “deteriorating,” compared with 38 percent
in a previous poll in September.  China’s industrial output growth probably declined to 12.6
percent last month from 13.2 percent in October, according to
the median forecast of 34 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, as
the  European debt crisis  crimps demand in the country’s largest
market.  Europe  accounts for 18 percent of China’s exports.
Shipments to the EU declined 18 percent in three months ended in
October to $28.7 billion, according to data compiled by the
General Administration of Customs.  The country will release industrial production, inflation,
and retail sales data today.  Inflation  Consumer prices probably increased 4.5 percent last month
from a year ago, compared with 5.5 percent in October, according
to the median estimate of 35 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Annual inflation reached a three-year high of 6.5 percent in
July.  The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., fell 3 percent to $35.70.  The Chinese yuan was little changed at 6.3619 per dollar in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The yuan has advanced 3.8 percent this year, the best
performance among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the
yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 Ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  