-- 
China’s Envoy to Africa Expresses Concern Over Sudan Oil, Border Disputes

-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 
2011-12-08T13:25:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/china-s-envoy-to-africa-expresses-concern-over-sudan-oil-border-disputes.html
China ’s top envoy for  Africa  urged
 Sudan  and South Sudan to resolve disputes over oil and their
mutual border, citing concern that future instability may harm
its investments in the region, Sudan’s Foreign Ministry said.  Liu Guijin made the comments after arriving in Khartoum
today for talks with Sudan’s foreign minister and officials from
the Oil Ministry, al-Obeid Murawih, a spokesman for the Foreign
Ministry, said in an interview in the capital city.  “The Chinese envoy has expressed concern that current
border tension and the delay in reaching an agreement on oil
might be an indicator for future instability, which might harm
Chinese investments in the region,” Murawih said. “Liu called on
both governments to work on peacefully resolving the disputes
over borders and oil as soon as possible.”  South Sudan  last month accused Sudan of delaying a shipment
of 600,000 barrels of oil to China International United
Petroleum & Chemical Corp., due to be loaded by Nov. 30,
prompting the company to write a letter of complaint. Unipec, as
the Chinese company is known, is the trading division of state-
owned  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. , or Sinopec, China’s
largest oil refiner. A 1-million-barrel shipment scheduled to be
sent to Geneva-based Vitol SA by Dec. 1 was loaded on Dec. 3,
according to South Sudan’s Oil Ministry.  “We are happy to see any progress,” Liu told reporters
yesterday in Juba, South Sudan’s capital, before flying to
Khartoum. China wants an agreement on transit fees reached
“before the Christmas holiday,” he said.  Civil War  South Sudan seceded from Sudan on July 9 following a peace
agreement in 2005 that ended a two-decade war between the north
and south. South Sudan’s oil shipments are still shipped through
northern pipelines to  Port Sudan  on the  Red Sea .  Sudan says the two cargoes were delayed because of the
longer processing time needed since it started last month to
take a percentage of the south’s oil that it says should be paid
as transportation fees. Negotiators from the two countries
failed to reach agreement last week in African Union-brokered
talks in  Addis Ababa ,  Ethiopia , on the fees. The discussions are
set to resume on Dec. 20.  “As China is the only player that has leverage with both
Sudan and South Sudan, it’s very positive that China’s special
envoy stepped in to talk with both sides about the stalled oil
negotiations,” Kathelijne Schenkel of the  European Coalition on
Oil in Sudan , a network of European non-governmental
organizations, said in response to e-mailed questions.  ‘Highly Tense’  “I do hope however that their intervention is not only
about the oil issues, but takes into account all other highly
tense aspects as well, like the border demarcation,” she said.  The  United Nations Security Council  is scheduled to be
briefed today on Abyei, a disputed region claimed by both sides
where the UN stationed peacekeepers after fighting broke out in
May. The council is expected to renew the mission’s mandate
before it expires Dec. 27.  Sudan and South Sudan have both issued complaints to the
council this month as fighting flared in the border area of Jaw
in the oil-rich Unity state. South Sudan said its army has
engaged Sudanese forces that crossed into the south and used
Antonov bombers, Mig fighters and long-range artillery. Sudan
also says the area is within its own territory and that it’s
fighting insurgents backed by the south.  South Sudan assumed control of about three-quarters of the
former state’s output of 490,000 barrels a day when it seceded
in July. Last month it seized the stakes held by Sudan’s state
oil company, Sudapet, in joint operations in the south with
companies such as Sinopec,  Malaysia ’s  Petroliam Nasional Bhd. 
and India’s  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 