-- 
China Money Rate Rises on Speculation PBOC Favors Stability

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-08T09:04:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/china-money-rate-rises-on-speculation-pboc-favors-stability.html
China ’s money-market rate rose for a
third day as the central bank drained the most cash from the
financial system in eight months, spurring speculation it will
hold off from easing monetary policy further.  The People’s Bank of China withdrew 101 billion yuan ($15.9
billion) this week via open-market operations, after mopping up
24 billion yuan in the five days through Dec. 2, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg. It cut lenders’ reserve requirements
last week for the first time since 2008 and government data due
tomorrow is expected to show  inflation  slowed to a 13-month low
of 4.5 percent in November, based on the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, rose two basis points to 3.47 percent as
of 4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average rate
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  “There’s limited scope for the repo rate to decline
because the central bank hasn’t shown any sign that it will
further ease monetary policy,” said Wang Botao, a bond analyst
at China Post Securities Co. in Beijing.  The People’s Bank of China kept the yield on three-month
bills unchanged at 3.1618 percent for a 15th sale, according to
a statement on its website today.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose six basis
points to 2.81 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 3.22 percent government bond due March
2014 was unchanged at 2.84 percent, according to the Interbank
Funding Center. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  -- Judy Chen . Editors:  James Regan , Ven Ram  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 