-- 
Chinese Companies Tired of Wall Street Shift to Hong Kong: Tech

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-12-08T00:25:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/chinese-companies-tired-of-wall-street-shift-to-hong-kong-listings-tech.html
Chinese technology companies that
raised $7.8 billion from  Wall Street  investors in initial public
offerings during the past 12 years have at least one good reason
to delist in  New York  and take their business to  Hong Kong .  Valuations appear to be significantly higher in Hong Kong.
 Perfect World Co. (PWRD) ,  China ’s fourth-biggest online games operator,
trades at 3.9 times its estimated earnings in New York, while
smaller rival  NetDragon Websoft Inc. (777)  is valued at 13 times in
Hong Kong. Such disparities may push some technology companies
to consider moving back east, said Victoria Mio, a senior
portfolio manager at Robeco Group in Hong Kong.  More strict oversight by New York regulators and allegations
of fraud from short-seller Muddy Waters LLC have suppressed the
USX China Index of 174 Chinese stocks trading on Wall Street by
21 percent this year. The gauge trades at 12 times earnings,
compared with 20 times for Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Composite
Information Technology Index. (HSCIIT)   “I am tired of the U.S.,” Yang Tianfu, chief executive
officer of  Harbin Electric Inc. (HRBN) , said in a phone interview. “We
just couldn’t communicate with the investors.”  ‘Overtake’ Wall Street  The Harbin, China-based maker of electric motors delisted
from the U.S. last month and can “easily” complete a listing
in Hong Kong or Shanghai, Yang said.  Companies wanting to leave Wall Street may choose Hong Kong
because listing in Shanghai or Shenzhen would require them to
restructure into domestic Chinese firms, said Richard Lim, a
Palo Alto, California-based partner at  GSR Ventures , which
invests in technology companies in China.  China Renaissance Partners, a Beijing-based investment bank
that advised New York-listed  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  and
 NetQin Mobile Inc. , is working on potential deals that may
result in listings in Hong Kong, Chief Executive Officer Bao Fan
said. Some involve U.S.-listed companies that may be taken
private, he said without naming them.  “Hong Kong, over time, will overtake the U.S. as the
preferred place of listing for Chinese technology companies,”
Bao said. “In the long term, the core group of holders in these
Chinese technology firms will have to be Chinese,” rather than
overseas, investors, he said.  18 Delistings  In October, Shanghai-based Internet companies  Shanda
Interactive Entertainment Ltd. (SNDA)  and  China Real Estate Information
Corp. (CRIC)  unveiled plans to delist from the U.S. after their shares
underperformed Hong Kong-traded rivals. They join 16 other U.S.-
listed Chinese companies that announced delisting plans since
2010, according to data from Roth Capital Partners LLC, a
Newport Beach, California-based financial firm.  “Some Chinese companies listed in the U.S. that trade at
low valuations may consider delisting and go public in Hong
Kong,” said Mio, whose fund managed $188 billion of assets,
including the Hong Kong-traded stock of  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,
China’s biggest Internet company by revenue, as of September.  Funtalk China Holdings Ltd. (FTLK) , a Beijing-based mobile-phone
retailer that delisted from New York in August, “won’t rule
out” listing in Hong Kong, said Francis Wan, a senior vice
president.  48 IPOs  NetDragon, based in Fuzhou, southeast China, is also more
expensive than New York-listed Chinese online game firms  Shanda
Games Ltd. (GAME) , Changyou.com Ltd. and  Giant Interactive Group Inc. (GA) ,
according to Bloomberg data.  Teal Willingham, who represents Beijing-based Perfect World
at Christensen International, said the company doesn’t comment
on its share price.  At least 48 Chinese technology stocks, including  Baidu Inc. 
and  Youku.com Inc. (YOKU) , completed IPOs in the U.S. since 2000. By
comparison, 17 did in Hong Kong.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) , operator of Asia’s
third-biggest stock market, offers “a perfectly good listing
platform” for Chinese technology companies, said Mark Dickens,
the exchange’s head of listings. There are plans by investment
banks to take some Chinese companies currently traded in New
York for listings in Hong Kong, he said.  “We heard investment bankers had been exploring the
opportunities,” Dickens said in an interview.  Muddy Waters  About 100 companies are seeking the exchange’s approval to
list their shares or are planning share sales after having
received approval, Dickens said at a Nov. 30 forum in Hong Kong.  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) , a Shanghai-based outdoor
advertising company, plunged 40 percent in New York trading on
Nov. 21 after a report by Muddy Waters alleged the Chinese firm
had overstated its assets.  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) , a Chinese chip designer,
declined as much as 34 percent in intraday trading on June 28
after the short seller alleged the company had misstated
financial results.  The Securities and Exchange Commission sent letters seeking
explanation of corporate structures at U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, including Shanda Interactive and Kongzhong Corp.,
said Paul Boltz, a Hong Kong-based partner at Ropes & Gray.  The SEC in June cautioned investors about buying shares in
companies formed by reverse mergers, a maneuver used by more
than 400 Chinese businesses to gain stock-market listings in
North America while avoiding the scrutiny of a public offering.  JP Morgan  The buyouts of Chinese companies from stock-market
investors in New York, and relisting them in markets offering
higher valuations, may generate profit for private-equity
investors.  “There is a real interest among private-equity funds in
these companies,” said Mark Tobin, co-director of research at
Roth Capital. Some U.S.-listed Chinese companies are trading at
valuations “far below” those of private companies in China, he
said.  Shanda Interactive Chairman Chen Tianqiao’s group, which
plans to buy out the company, discussed financing with  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , the company said Oct. 17. PAG Asia Capital, a Hong
Kong-based alternative investment manager, helped fund the
management-led buyout of Funtalk.  Most of the Chinese companies trying to list in the U.S.
are relatively small and are subject to an increasingly
difficult regulatory environment, Bao said. Hong Kong also has
the benefit of having a sophisticated, international capital
market, he said.  “Most of the U.S. investors don’t understand China very
well,” Bao said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  