-- 
Christie in Iowa Calls Romney Republican Who Can Win

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-12-09T00:15:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/christie-in-iowa-calls-romney-the-only-republican-who-can-win.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
put his popularity among fiscal conservatives to work on behalf
of  Mitt Romney  yesterday, telling Iowa voters that the former
Massachusetts governor is the only Republican in the party’s
presidential primaries who can beat President  Barack Obama .  Appearing at an evening rally in  West Des Moines , Christie
urged voters to put aside differences they might have with
Romney and help him secure a victory in the Jan. 3 caucuses that
start the nominating process.  “If you’re looking for a candidate who agrees with you on
everything, buy a mirror,” Christie told a crowd of about 150
at the headquarters of the Kum & Go convenience store chain.
“I’m out here to tell you that I’m supporting him because I
believe he’s the best qualified person to be president, and I
believe he’s the only Republican who can win.”  Christie drew implicit distinctions on the issue of
character between Romney and former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia , who is surging in the polls and emerging as
a major threat.  Christie told a voter who said she was still undecided in
the race to ask herself, “Is this the kind of person who is
always going to make me proud in the Oval Office?” and “that
I’ll never have to worry will do something that just will make
me ashamed.”  Romney “just won’t, and maybe we should expect at least
that of our leaders, but we’ve learned over time we don’t always
get it,” he said. While Christie didn’t name Gingrich, his
comments suggested he was referring to the ethics charges that
led to the former speaker’s official reprimand by the U.S. House
of Representatives in 1997.  Gingrich’s Record  Romney’s campaign today deployed two of his top advisers,
former  New Hampshire  Governor John Sununu and former Missouri
Senator Jim Talent, to lead a press conference call to delve
into Gingrich’s record.  Sununu and Talent described Gingrich as an erratic, self-
serving politician whose efforts at self-promotion frequently
undermine his party’s agenda.  “He’s not a reliable and trusted conservative leader
because he’s not a reliable or trustworthy leader,” said
Talent, who worked with Gingrich as a congressman in the 1990s.  “He’s more concerned about Newt Gingrich than he is about
conservative principles,” added Sununu. “The off-the-cuff, for
example, that Gingrich throws out on occasion is a reflection of
the off-the-cuff thinking that he goes through to deal with
issues. That is not what you want in the commander-in-chief.”  Targeting Gingrich  Talent and Sununu pointed to comments Gingrich made last
spring attacking Republican House Budget Chairman  Paul Ryan ’s
proposal to overhaul Medicare, a plan backed by almost all  House
Republicans  and seen as a cornerstone of the party’s agenda.  “To undercut Paul Ryan is the most self-serving anti-
conservative thing one can imagine happening,” said Sununu.
“He gave the liberals and the Democrats the ammunition they
needed.”  They warned that, if Gingrich won their party’s nomination,
the election would be about him -- rather than the economy or
the policies of the Obama administration.  “My concern is that, if he’s the nominee, and I say this
as a Republican, this election is going to be about him,” said
Talent, “and that’s exactly what the Democrats want.”  Christie, who flirted with a presidential run as he faced
entreaties from some Republican activists and donors loathe to
support Romney, decided Oct. 4 not to enter the race and threw
his backing to Romney a week later.  ‘Romney-Christie’  The New Jersey governor, who has gained a following among
fiscal conservatives for slashing his state’s budget and
battling with organized labor, didn’t rule out becoming Romney’s
vice presidential running mate if he is asked.  “I won’t say ‘absolutely not,’ because in the end, I think
it’s impolite,” Christie told a voter who asked about such a
ticket. “I wouldn’t bet on Romney-Christie.”  Questioned about whether Romney made a good move by
rejecting real estate developer  Donald Trump ’s invitation to a
Dec. 27 presidential debate, Christie said the candidate had to
decide for himself how best to spend his limited time with
voting slated to start in less than a month.  “He needs to be in  Iowa  a lot and he needs to be in New
Hampshire a lot for the next 30 days,” Christie said.  More than a dozen protesters calling themselves Occupy Iowa
Caucus interrupted Christie’s remarks, yelling slogans about
 income inequality  including “Make Wall Street pay” and “Put
people first.”  After they were escorted out by Romney campaign staffers,
Christie told the crowd that the hecklers’ “anger is rooted in
the fact that they believed in this hope and change garbage that
they were sold by this president three years ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in West Des Moines at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Greenville, S.C. at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  