-- 
Class Warfare Waged by FDR Holds Lesson for Obama: Michael Kazin

-- B y   M i c h a e l   K a z i n
-- 
2011-12-08T00:00:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/class-warfare-by-fdr-holds-lesson-for-obama-commentary-by-michael-kazin.html
On Halloween night in 1936, before an
admiring crowd that filled  Madison Square Garden , President
 Franklin D. Roosevelt  attacked the enemies of the New Deal in
words that rang with populist fury.  “We had to struggle with the old enemies of peace --
business and financial monopoly, speculation, reckless banking,
class antagonism, sectionalism, war profiteering,” he declared
in  New York . “They had begun to consider the government of the
 United States  as a mere appendage to their own affairs. We know
now that government by organized money is just as dangerous as
government by organized mob. Never before have these forces been
so united against one candidate as they stand today. They are
unanimous in their hate for me -- and I welcome their hatred.”
Three days later, FDR won a second term by the most lopsided
margin of  electoral votes  in U.S. history.  Although Roosevelt’s opponents, in and out of the
 Republican Party , routinely accused him of waging “class
warfare,” the charge did them no good and may even have
backfired. Now that the GOP is training the same kind of
rhetoric on  Barack Obama ’s proposal to slap a higher tax on
millionaires, it might be instructive to understand why
Roosevelt was successful -- and to judge whether the man who now
occupies the White House can benefit from his example as he
campaigns for his own re-election.  FDR had sound reasons to think his assault on the  moneyed
few  would help gain him a sweeping victory. Most Americans still
blamed Wall Street and giant corporations for causing the Great
Depression, and they credited Roosevelt with the modest recovery
and the 10-percentage-point decrease in unemployment -- due, in
part, to new government jobs -- that had occurred during his
tenure.  Labor Surge  Equally significant was a historic surge in labor
organizing: Millions of wage earners were joining new unions at
auto plants,  steel mills , electrical factories, and on the
docks. While big strikes alienated some in the middle class, the
merit of the  labor movement ’s demand for industrial democracy
was hard to deny. From Ford to General Motors to U.S. Steel, the
richest companies in the nation had long been known for treating
their blue-collar employees as little more than hired serfs.  Roosevelt was also fortunate that his most prominent
enemies seemed determined to live up to his description of them.
It was anti-New Deal businessmen, in their contempt for unions
and neglect of the jobless, who seemed bent on stirring up class
warfare. In 1934, a bevy of corporate leaders -- including the
chief executives of GM, Montgomery Ward and DuPont -- had
founded the  American Liberty League  to counter what they claimed
was the president’s march toward a totalitarianism greater than
that being practiced by Hitler or Stalin.  But the league made no serious attempt to mobilize
grassroots support to beat back FDR’s alleged violation of the
Constitution and property rights. Worse, its spokesmen railed
against such popular New Deal measures as Social Security, which
they predicted would “mark the end of democracy.” Even  Herbert
Hoover , who detested FDR, scoffed that the league represented
only the “Wall Street model of human liberty.”  Barack Obama enjoys none of those advantages. In contrast
to the 1930s, unions are a  shrinking  force in private industry
and are struggling to hold on to their bargaining power in the
public sector. The conservative movement is a far larger and
more credible force than was the Liberty League -- even as its
alarm at Obama’s “socialism” echoes that once hurled at FDR.  Countless changes have rendered the U.S. a very different
country from the one in which Roosevelt bashed “economic
royalists” and won re-election by a landslide. During the
1930s, few Americans invested in the stock market, only a
minority paid income tax, and per-capita income was less than
$500 a year. Some steelworkers walked to their mills barefoot,
in order to conserve the one pair of work shoes they owned. In a
nation where most citizens now consider themselves to be middle-
class and where even most poor people own cell phones and
televisions, one can’t be elected president by simply
campaigning against  Wall Street  and the rich.  ‘Nation’s Welfare’  What worked to FDR’s advantage was a political instinct
that combined resentment against “organized money” with a deep
compassion for ordinary people in trouble. On the radio and in
person, he sought to console Americans as well as to educate
them about how a particular policy that increased federal power
would aid the great majority and not enhance the privileges
accorded to any single class or interest group.  During the 1936 campaign, Roosevelt spoke to a group of
North Dakota farmers afraid the government would force them to
leave their drought-ruined lands.  “I (have) a hunch that you people (have) your chins up,”
he told them, “that you are not looking forward to the day when
the country would be depopulated. I say you are not licked.” In
November, he carried that traditionally Republican state with
almost three-fifths of the popular vote.  Later, when public doubts about the growing  federal deficit 
gave Republicans an edge, FDR was able to recover his momentum
by setting forth his policies for  job creation  in simple,
emotional terms.  “I never forget that I live in a house owned by all the
American people and that I have been given their trust,” he
said in a Fireside Chat in April 1938. “I try not to forget
that what really counts at the bottom of it all is that the men
and women willing to work can have a decent job, not for today
nor tomorrow alone, but as far ahead as they can see.” The
government had to spend, he explained, “to help our system of
private enterprise to function again.”  The one-time assistant Navy secretary concluded his talk
with a maritime metaphor: “To abandon our purpose of building a
greater, a more stable and a more tolerant America, would be to
miss the tide and perhaps to miss the port. I propose to sail
ahead. For to reach a port, we must sail, not lie at anchor;
sail, not drift.”  Empathizer in Chief  Obama probably can’t remake himself into the empathizer-in-
chief. It certainly wouldn’t help to echo such quaint, if
poetic, language. Nor does this president need to welcome the
hatred of his enemies in order to point out that they neither
represent the opinions of most Americans nor have effective
solutions to what ails the society. On Tuesday in a speech in
Osawatomie,  Kansas , Obama tried to strike such a balance,
invoking some Roooseveltian themes (FDR’s as well as TR’s),
while also claiming support from American business elites such
as Andy Grove and  Warren Buffett . “This isn’t about class
warfare,” he said. “This is about the nation’s welfare.”  The wealthy and well-connected can and will help
themselves. What the rest of the population needs is a president
who unmistakably takes the side of everybody else.  (Michael Kazin, a professor of history at  Georgetown
University  and co-editor of Dissent magazine, is the author of
“American Dreamers: How the Left Changed a Nation.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Michael Kazin at  mk8@georgetown.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  