-- 
Climate Envoys Close in on Setting Up Climate Fund at UN Talks

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-12-08T14:40:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/climate-envoys-close-in-on-setting-up-climate-fund-at-un-talks.html
United Nations envoys are closing in
on setting up a climate aid fund that will channel aid to
developing nations while lacking any pledges for where the money
will come from.  The pool of money is called the Green Climate Fund and is
meant to channel an unspecified portion of a $100 billion in aid
pledged by industrialized nations to developing ones by 2020.
Christiana Figueres, the UN diplomat leading the talks, has said
it must be a key outcome of two weeks of talks in Durban,  South
Africa  that are due to end tomorrow.  The U.S.,  Venezuela  and  Saudi Arabia  last week objected to
a report laying out the structure and governance of the fund,
delaying a final decision.  “It has made a lot of progress, it’s an area that’s among
the most advanced in the negotiations, and I don’t have any
reason to think that’s not going to conclude,” U.S. delegation
chief Todd Stern told reporters today in Durban. “That’s going
to get done. I’m confident of that.”  Stern’s comments echo those of envoys from Barbados, and
 Bangladesh , raising the prospect that the Durban talks,
deadlocked over the thorny issue of the future of the existing
climate treaty, the  Kyoto Protocol , may result in the creation
of a fund that’s prized by developing nations.  Source of Income  Even so, the fund will need to have sources of income, and
developed nations have yet to pledge public funds. There’s a
concern the fund shouldn’t be an “empty shell,” said Barbadian
envoy Selwin Hart, who negotiates on finance for the 42-member
 Alliance of Small Island States .  “We need more signals from developed countries that they
are willing to support this fund,” said Hart. “We can design a
perfect institutional structure, but if there are no resources,
it will not have the effect it must have.”  Hart said he’s “confident” the fund will be established
in Durban, as did Bangladeshi negotiator Quamrul Chowdury, who
said there is still stalemate on some outstanding issues.  Mexico ’s environment minister said his country would like
to host the fund’s secretariat because his country is a good
“bridge” between the industrialized and developing worlds.  Germany  also offered to host the Green Climate Fund and
pledged 40 million euros ($53 million) for further
operationalization and start-up costs.  U.K. Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne  said Britain intends to
“support” the fund as soon as it’s operational.  Not Immediate  “We have heard that there are some developed countries
that are waiting for the fund to be adopted in Durban before
they announce money that they will put in the fund,” said
Silvia Merega, an Argentinian envoy who negotiates for the G77
block of more than 130 developing nations and  China . “We are
skeptical on the capitalisation. We think it is not going to
happen immediately.”  The green fund’s structure was largely agreed before
delegates came to Cancun, and shouldn’t be a stumbling block,
according to Mark Lynas, climate change adviser to Maldivian
President Mohamed Nasheed,.  “Setting up the Green Climate Fund isn’t a deal breaker,”
Lynas said. “The deal breaker is whether any money goes into
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  