-- 
Climate Deal Road Map Is Possible Without Destination, G77 Says

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-12-08T12:44:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/climate-deal-road-map-is-possible-without-destination-g77-says.html
The biggest group of developing
nations may accept a road map to a future climate deal without
defining what the endpoint is, the Argentinean envoy who heads
the bloc said.  The timeline is a key European Union demand at UN climate
treaty negotiations in Durban, South Africa that are due to end
tomorrow. The EU says it can only take on new carbon emissions
targets under the existing treaty, the  Kyoto Protocol , if all
nations agree to negotiate for a legally-binding deal by 2015.  “We have no problem dealing with what will be the next
steps after Durban,” Silvia Merega, chief negotiator for the
G77 group of more than 130 nations and  China , said today in an
interview with Bloomberg and five other news organizations. “We
have to have some kind of rules. I don’t know at this point if
these rules would establish what the outcome of the negotiation
would be.”  The EU is seeking to move away from the Kyoto system, which
sets binding limits only for developed countries, and would mean
at most 15 percent of global emissions are restricted after
2012.  Developing countries  say new commitments under that treaty
must be agreed in Durban.  Japan ,  Russia  and Canada all say they won’t take on new
commitments under Kyoto, because it doesn’t bind the three
biggest emitters: the U.S., which never ratified it, and China
and  India , because they are classified as developing economies
under the 1997 treaty. The U.S. says there’s no need to
establish a new climate regime before 2020. The EU wants one to
enter into force before then.  “The EU position is a difficult thing to manage because
they are asking something form the U.S. and they are asking
something of the G77 and China,” Merega said. “The factor of
timing is very difficult to deal with. If we find a way to chart
next steps, I think most countries could accept that we still
have the road map, and during a period of time, we can analyze
and debate how the road map ends and what we have next.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in Durban,  South Africa  via 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg via   landberg@bloomberg.net . 