-- 
Clinton ‘Made Clear’ to Russia Missile Defense Will Go Ahead

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-12-08T14:54:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/clinton-made-clear-to-russia-missile-defense-will-go-ahead-1-.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said she told Russian officials that the U.S. will go ahead with
a planned missile defense system in  Europe  even though Moscow
objects.  The missile shield system is intended to counter threats
from Iran and does not target Russia, Clinton said. In a meeting
with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, Clinton said she
“made clear that we will proceed with deploying missile
defenses to defend” Europe.  “We’ve been open and transparent about our system,”
Clinton said today at a gathering of NATO foreign ministers in
Brussels.  “Our planned system will not and cannot threaten Russia’s
strategic deterrent,” she said. “It does not affect our
strategic balance with Russia and it’s certainly not a cause for
countermeasures.”  U.S.-Russia ties have become increasingly strained, setting
back the Obama administration’s 2009 attempt to improve
relations. The two nations have disagreed over the NATO military
campaign in  Libya  and U.S.-led attempts to censure  Syria  at the
UN for its crackdown on anti-government protesters.  Tensions over possible fraud in Russia’s Dec. 4 election
and the missile defense system are now at the forefront. Clinton
said she hoped the two countries would find a “common
approach” to the missile defense issue.  The top U.S. diplomat is on a five-day trip in Europe,
discussing  Afghanistan , democracy and human rights, as well as
the Russian election.  Accusing the U.S.  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  accused Clinton today of
provoking Russian unrest with her comments that voters there
“deserve a full investigation of electoral fraud and
manipulation” after a Dec. 4 vote that gave his United Russia
party 50 percent of the vote and triggered massive protests.  Since the vote,  Russia  has been rocked by some of the
largest demonstrations in years as thousands of people have
taken to the streets to protest reports that officials stuffed
ballot boxes, manipulated voter lists and harassed election
observers.  Police have detained hundreds of people, and more protests
are planned.  Putin said Clinton’s Dec. 6 comments at a meeting of the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe “sent a
signal to some activists inside the country.” Clinton cited a
report by OSCE election observers to bolster her allegations
that the election had been marred by fraud.  Putin’s Complaint  Speaking at a meeting with leaders of his All- Russia 
People’s Front in Moscow today, Putin said protesters “got the
message and started active work with the support of the U.S.
State Department.”  Asked in Brussels about Putin’s comments, Clinton stressed
the positive points of U.S. bilateral cooperation with Russia.  “I think it’s important to recognize that we value our
relationship with Russia,” she said. “We have invested a great
deal of effort to working together, not only bilaterally but
through NATO. We think we’ve made real progress.”  At the same time, Clinton said, the U.S. has “a strong
commitment to democracy and human rights, it’s part of who we
are, it’s our values and we express concerns that we thought
were well founded about the conduct of the elections.”  “We are supportive of the rights and aspirations of the
Russian people to make progress and make a better future for
themselves,” Clinton said.  ‘Clear Guarantees’  Putin made his comments as U.S. and Russian officials aired
their disagreement over a planned U.S. missile-defense system in
Europe at the NATO meeting in Brussels.  The U.S. and allies say the system is meant to protect
against threats from outside Europe, particularly  Iran . Russians
want NATO and the U.S. to sign a binding treaty stating that the
system is not aimed at their defenses, which the U.S. has not
been willing to do.  At today’s NATO meeting, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said that he needed “clear guarantees” that the U.S.
system is not targeted at Russia.  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  said on state television
Nov. 23 that he had ordered the military to prepare the
capability to “destroy” the command structure of the U.S.
missile shield.  Medvedev’s provocative speech actually was simply a repeat
of plans Russian officials have discussed publicly before, said
Ivo Daalder, the U.S. Ambassador to NATO.  Old Threats  “Even the most specific threats, the deployment of
offensive systems near borders and in Kaliningrad, have been
mentioned many times before,” Daalder told reporters Dec. 2
during a Defense Writers Group breakfast in  Washington .  “In that sense, I think timing of the speech is probably
more driven by what’s happening at home than anything else.”  The “reset” policy with Russia did yield one notable
success in the so-called 123 Agreement, a civilian nuclear
cooperation agreement that will allow the Cold War foes to
collaborate on developing new atomic technology. It went into
force in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Brussels at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  