-- 
Clinton Urges U.S. Companies to Beware Repressive Regimes

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-12-09T02:02:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/clinton-urges-technology-companies-to-beware-repressive-regimes.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
called on technology companies to make “good decisions” about
how and even whether to do business involving nations that may
use the equipment or software against their citizens.  Clinton, who has made Internet freedom a core element of
U.S. foreign policy, also issued a stark warning today about
efforts by countries such as China and Russia seeking to
nationalize the Internet.  In an address to the Conference on Internet Freedom,
Clinton urged companies to consider whether they should enter
certain markets, prevent governments from using their products
to spy on citizens and warn consumers of the risks they face in
using certain devices or programs.  In a series of stories this year, Bloomberg News reported
how Western companies have sold surveillance systems to
repressive governments, including Iran, Syria and Bahrain.  Crackdowns on pro-democracy protests in the  Middle East 
underscored how technology by companies such as  Palo Alto ,
California-based  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,  NetApp Inc. (NTAP)  of Sunnyvale,
 California , and Munich-based  Siemens AG (SI)  has been used by
governments to monitor and arrest dissidents.  “The first challenge is for the private sector to embrace
its role in protecting Internet freedom,” Clinton said at the
conference in the Hague, hosted by the Netherlands and  Google
Inc. (GOOG)   No Formula  “There’s no formula for this,” Clinton said. “Making
good decisions about how and whether to do business in various
parts of the world -- particularly where the law is haphazardly
applied or opaque -- takes critical thinking and deliberation.”  Google Inc. Chairman  Eric Schmidt  said his company
organized the conference with the Dutch to counter governments
that would say, “We don’t like that, we’re going to curtail
that, we’re going to shut it down, we’re going to censor it.”  Clinton is concluding a five-day trip to  Europe  where she
has spent the bulk of her time speaking about democracy and
human rights.  She joined with Dutch Foreign Minister Uri Rosenthal today
to announce the creation of a global coalition of private
industry, Internet freedom advocates and governments to protect
Internet freedom and “promote the cause of human rights via the
Internet,” Rosenthal said in a press conference today.  Several countries have already signaled their intention to
join the coalition, Clinton said.  Restricting Freedom  She highlighted the contrast between the new coalition and
nations trying to restrict Internet freedoms, such as Russia and
 China . Both nations are pushing for the ability to impose
structural changes to  computer networks  within their own
borders, rather than accept the common global standards that
spurred the growth of the Internet.  When these countries negotiate at standards-setting bodies
-- such as the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and
Numbers, known as ICANN, and the International Telecommunication
Union -- they often use the word “sovereignty” as a shorthand
for domestic control of the Internet. In public pronouncements,
for example, the Chinese government refers to “China’s
Internet,” rather than “the Internet.”  “In effect, they want to create national barriers in
cyberspace,” Clinton said. “This approach would be disastrous
for Internet freedom.” The current multistakeholder system
“brings together the best of governments, the private sector,
and civil society,” Clinton said, “and it works.”  Paying the Price  Governments that try to curtail Internet freedom “will
have to choose between letting the walls fall or paying the
price to keep them standing, by resorting to greater
oppression,” Clinton said.  Companies should ask themselves questions, Clinton said.
“Should you do business in a country with a history of
violating Internet freedom,” she asked. “Is there something
you can do to prevent governments from using their products to
spy on their citizens?”  In Vilnius, Lithuania, Clinton pushed for the adoption of a
declaration of cyberspace freedoms at a meeting of the
Organization of Security and Cooperation in Europe on Dec. 6.
Russian opposition stalled the proposal, which must be agreed
upon unanimously.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  The Hague  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva   msilva34@bloomberg.net  