-- 
Coen’s Bleak ‘Happy Hour’ Features Bar Stool Bloviator: Review

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-12-08T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/coen-s-happy-hour-features-bar-stool-bloviator-lonelyhearts-duo-review.html
The depressives in filmmaker  Ethan Coen ’s “ Happy Hour ” may provide succor to a  New Yorker  in a
temporary funk. More likely, the three inert one-act plays about
inert people will bring you down further.  “End Days” begins with a bloviator in a bar (Gordon
MacDonald). He rants about coal consumption in  China  and global
warming in  Switzerland  (“Now the glacier is just a little
yarmulke at the very top of the mountain”). He complains about
the world going digital, while at home struggles with the locks
on his front door. Inside he shouts at his offstage wife and
clips newspaper stories.  In “City Lights,” the best of the  Atlantic Theater Co. 
trio, a hermitic songwriter (Joey Slotnick) meets two lonely
women in their apartment while searching for a cassette demo
tape he left in a taxi. He has sparks with one of them (Aya
Cash), although the cab driver (Rock Kohli) proves the smoother
man. Cassie Beck, playing a bemused sidekick, steals the show
with understated mugging.  “Wayfarer’s Inn” concerns two traveling businessmen who
are apparent serial philanderers. As Buck (Clark Gregg) primps
in their hotel room before a night out, Tony (Lenny Venito)
turns existential, questioning why “the world doesn’t like
us.”  “A good host makes things nice,” Tony goes on. “For the
guest. The world does not make things nice for us.”  The action shifts to a meandering scene in a Japanese
restaurant. Tony, with two female guests and a noisy waitress,
thinks he makes some progress deciphering the meaning of life.  Coen, also represented on Broadway in “Relatively
Speaking,” poses serious questions but is short on answers or
laughs.  Through Dec. 31 at the Peter Norton Space, 555 W. 52nd St.
Information:  http://www.atlantictheater.org  or +1-212-279-4200.
Rating: * 1/2  (Philip Boroff writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 