-- 
Companies Face $12 Trillion Equity-Funding Shortage by 2020, McKinsey Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-12-08T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/companies-face-12-trillion-equity-gap-by-2020-mckinsey-says.html
Global companies’ demand for equity
capital may outstrip supply by about $12.3 trillion in 2020 as
investors avoid stocks, spurring firms to take on more debt and
leaving them vulnerable during recessions, McKinsey & Co. said.  Investors may cut their equity holdings to 22 percent of
total investments by 2020 from 28 percent now, according to a
report from the research unit of McKinsey, the international
consulting firm. Companies in 18 emerging and developed nations
examined by McKinsey will need to raise $37.4 trillion of
additional capital to support growth, exceeding the $25.1
trillion of new money invested into stocks, the firm said.  The shift away from stocks may be driven by the growing
proportion of financial assets in emerging countries, where
investors tend to have most of their holdings in  bank deposits 
and  government securities , McKinsey said. Companies that can’t
lure equity investors may add debt instead, leading to more
bankruptcies during recessions and bigger swings in economic
cycles, according to the report.  “Most of the emerging equity gap would occur in developing
nations,” wrote Richard Dobbs, a Seoul-based director of
McKinsey Global Institute and co-author of the study. “The
probable outcome is a world in which the balance between debt
and equity has shifted.”  Banks, under pressure from regulators to raise more capital
after government bailouts during the 2008 financial crisis, may
find it more costly as investors shun shares, McKinsey said. The
 MSCI All-Country World Financials Index  has tumbled 19 percent
this year, compared with an 8.4 percent drop in the 10-industry
MSCI All-Country World Index.  Emerging Influence  Financial assets in  developing countries  may triple to $141
trillion, or 36 percent of the global total, by 2020 from 21
percent last year, according to McKinsey. More than 60 percent
of investors in emerging Asian economies said they prefer to
keep savings in deposits rather than in mutual funds or
equities, according to the study.  Emerging market investors would need to triple their
allocations to equities to meet the needs of companies, an
“unlikely scenario,” McKinsey said.  Developing economies may expand 6.1 percent as a group next
year compared with 1.9 percent growth in advanced countries,
according to September forecasts by the Washington-based
 International Monetary Fund .  “A key question for the future of global financial markets
is the speed and extent to which investors in these countries
will develop a larger appetite for equities and other financial
instruments and diversify their portfolios,” Dobbs wrote.  In developed nations, aging populations will lead to lower
investment in equities, according to McKinsey. Higher
allocations to alternative investments, low returns from stocks
during the past decade and smaller proprietary investments in
equities by banks may also fuel the change, the report said.  “A shift away from equity in the global financial system
is an important trend and, in our view, an unwelcome one,”
Dobbs wrote. “Governments and business leaders share a common
interest in expanding the supply of equity to the world
economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  