-- 
Congress Isn’t Supposed to Be Above the Law: Stephen L. Carter

-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 
2011-12-08T00:24:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/congress-isn-t-supposed-to-be-above-the-law-commentary-by-stephen-carter.html
The recent publicity surrounding the
very old news that members of Congress aren’t prohibited from
trading stock using nonpublic information has the House and
Senate running for cover. Hastily drafted bills are picking up
co-sponsors on both sides of the aisle.  Yet it is something of a wonder that there is so much
public excitement at the discovery that  regulations  that apply
to lots of other people turn out to be largely irrelevant to
those who serve in Congress. This isn’t an exception to
congressional practice. It is, far too often, business as usual.  One of the most memorable lines from the billionaire  Ross Perot ’s quixotic presidential run in 1992 went something like
this: “ Capitol Hill  is the only workplace in America where the
employees can park and the owners can’t.”  Perot was being under-inclusive, of course. Even then,
pretty much every place peopled by supposed public servants met
the description. Yet he was right about the principle at work.
It has become all too easy for members of Congress to grant
themselves  special privileges , among them exemption from many
complex laws and regulations that apply to everyone else.  Consider the  Occupational Safety and Health Administration .
For all its good intentions, OSHA is considered by many
companies a bane of their existence, the source of a constant
stream of regulations and enormous costs, often for relatively
small benefits. Sometimes the rules are important. Sometimes
they are silly. Either way, it’s no concern of our national
legislature, which, in its wisdom, has exempted itself.  OSHA Exemption  Actually, the entire federal government is exempted from
OSHA. But federal agencies are at least required to develop
operational rules that are “consistent with” OSHA standards.
This minimal requirement doesn’t include Congress, which turns
out not to be an agency.  Then there is financial regulation. Critics have lamented
that no equivalent of the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  applies to
Congress. The chief executives of public companies must certify
their accounts, and face fines of up to $5 million and as many
as 20 years in prison if they do so falsely. Members of Congress
(like all federal officials) can make up numbers out of whole
cloth without any sanction at all. Incorrect corporate numbers
can mislead markets. Incorrect federal budget numbers can
mislead the nation. (Perhaps the federal budget, like corporate
balance sheets, should be vetted by independent third-party
auditors.)  Examples abound. Federal minimum-wage laws apply to private
employers and federal agencies; but, once again, Congress isn’t
an agency. For the same reason, the Freedom of Information Act
doesn’t apply. The  National Labor Relations Act  exempts the
federal government generally, but there are special rules
relating to collective bargaining and unfair labor practices of
federal employees -- rules that don’t, however, apply to
Congress. The Merit System Protection statutes shield personnel
in executive agencies, and even in the Administrative Office of
the United States Courts; not in Congress. And so on.  Even when Congress does decide to apply statutes to itself,
members have trouble resisting the temptation to treat
themselves differently. So, for example, Title III of the Civil
Rights Act of 1991 extended the reach of several (not all)
antidiscrimination statutes to cover congressional employees,
but with provisos stripping the protections of much of their
force. One has to love this sentence, amending  Title VII , the
most prominent federal law against employment discrimination:
“Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, the
provisions of this title shall apply to the Congress of the
 United States , and the means for enforcing this title as such
applies to each House of Congress shall be as determined by such
House of Congress.”  Complex System  In short, the prohibitions apply, but the remedies are up
to each house. Unsurprisingly, each house has created its own
complex system of adjudication that bypasses the procedures
facing mere private employers accused of identical acts of
discrimination.  This wasn’t supposed to happen. James Madison, in
 Federalist No. 57 , scoffed at the idea that members of Congress
would exempt themselves from laws that applied to other people.
They “can make no law,” he wrote, “which will not have its
full operation on themselves and their friends, as well as on
the great mass of the society.”  This principle, Madison declared, creates between the
legislature and the people “that communion of interests and
sympathy of sentiments, of which few governments have furnished
examples; but without which every government degenerates into
tyranny.”  We’re not headed for tyranny, but the problem is serious.
No branch of the federal government is less admired than
Congress. Part of the reason is surely the attitude that Perot
identified two decades ago: the tendency of members to forget
that they work for the public rather than the other way around.  Most members of the House and Senate, on both sides of the
aisle, are decent and well-meaning public servants.
Unfortunately, they have been caught up in a culture so imbued
with privilege that Madison’s principle has been forgotten. In
place of his “communion of interests,” we find countless
exceptions.  No doubt there is sometimes good reason for a congressional
exemption. But there are good reasons to exempt lots of
companies from lots of laws, and, unless those companies are
very powerful, our national legislature is generally less
interested in their uniqueness than its own. And it isn’t likely
that the case for exemption is equally strong with respect to
all the many bills that happen to exclude Congress.  Madison insisted that the American spirit -- “which
nourishes freedom, and in return is nourished by it” -- would
rise up against any effort by members of Congress to make
“legal discriminations in favor of themselves.” He added: “If
this spirit shall ever be so far debased as to tolerate a law
not obligatory on the legislature, as well as on the people, the
people will be prepared to tolerate any thing but liberty.”  Today we tolerate plenty of laws not obligatory on the
legislature. Certainly it’s a lot easier to pursue great goals
when the costs of that pursuit fall on other people. If Congress
truly wants to improve its  public standing , a good place to
start would be by breaking the habit of treating itself as
special. Passage of new stock-trading rules should be treated as
only a tiny first step on a very long road.  (Stephen L. Carter, a novelist, professor of law at  Yale
University  and the author of “The Violence of Peace: America’s
Wars in the Age of Obama,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 