-- 
U.S. Consumer Comfort Holds at Recession Levels

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-12-08T14:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/consumer-sentiment-little-changed-from-recession-levels-in-bloomberg-index.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S. was
little changed for a second week, holding at a level typically
reached during past recessions.  The Bloomberg  Consumer Comfort  Index was at minus 50.3 in
the period ended Dec. 4, after a reading of minus 50.2 the prior
week. The gauge has been at minus 50 or worse for 11 of the past
12 weeks, an unprecedented stretch of pessimism in its 26-year
history.  An unexpected  decline  in unemployment last month coupled
with growing payrolls may be preventing household confidence
from sinking even deeper. The European debt crisis and
squabbling between President  Barack Obama  and Congress over the
budget, will probably keep households discouraged during the
 holiday shopping season  and into 2012.  “Consumer confidence appears to be stabilizing, albeit
near historically low levels,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior
economist at Bloomberg L.P. in New York. “However, that
stabilization is quite tenuous. Like the  U.S. economy , consumer
confidence is at risk due to the events unfolding in  Europe  and
the increasingly divisive rhetoric coming out of Washington.”  Fewer Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, reflecting a pullback following
the Thanksgiving holiday and a decrease in seasonal firings
which may signal the labor market is on the mend. Jobless claims
dropped by 23,000 to 381,000 in the week ended Dec. 3, the
fewest since February, Labor Department figures showed today.  Shares Drop  Stocks dropped after European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  said he didn’t signal plans to purchase more bonds last
week, damping speculation the central bank will act. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.5 percent to 1,254.98 at 9:40
a.m. in  New York .  Treasury securities  also decreased, with the
yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 2.05 percent from 2.03
percent late yesterday.  Two of the three components of the weekly comfort index
slumped further. The measure of Americans’ views of the current
state of the economy slid to minus 89.7 last week from minus
88.5 in the prior period. The  buying climate index  dropped to
minus 52.6 from minus 49.4. The gauge of personal finances
improved to minus 8.5 from minus 12.7.  The Bloomberg comfort index, which began in December 1985,
has averaged minus 46.8 this year compared with minus 45.7 for
all of 2010 and minus 47.9 in 2009, the worst full-year reading
on record, the report showed.  Confidence among consumers with only a high school degree
fell last week to minus 65.1, the lowest in data going back to
1990. Those with incomes exceeding $100,000 were the glummest
since early September, which may be rooted in fears a collapsing
euro zone economy could hurt stock prices, according to
Brusuelas.  ‘In the Muck’  “If the EU does not disintegrate over the next few weeks,
it could portend a real increase in equity prices,” which would
stimulate spending among wealthier households, Brusuelas said.
“On the other hand, if the EU disintegrates, they throw in the
towel, and we are back in the muck.”  Relief may be in sight. An announcement last week that the
 Federal Reserve  would join five central banks in making it
easier for lenders to obtain dollars helped the Dow Jones
Industrial Average  rally (INDU)  7 percent in the five days ended Dec.
2, following the largest drop for a Thanksgiving week since
1932.  Given recession-level confidence, household purchasing has,
at the same time, held up. Spending during Thanksgiving weekend
jumped 9.1 percent from a year earlier to $398.62 per person,
the Washington-based  National Retail Federation  said. U.S. auto
sales rose to a 13.6 million seasonally adjusted annualized rate
in November, the best month since August 2009, according to
Autodata Corp.  Demographic Breakdown  The Bloomberg index of college graduates’ comfort climbed
to the highest level since July. Among those earning from
$75,000 to $99,999, the index rose to the highest level since
February.  Other sentiment indicators have rebounded. The Conference
Board’s index of confidence in November had the biggest monthly
gain since April 2003. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan final index of sentiment rose last month to the highest
level since June.  “If you look with the U.S. consumer, somehow, somewhere,
the confidence has been coming back slowly but steadily, and we
can see that at the level of the street, at the level of the
mall,” Paul Marciano, chief executive officer of Los Angeles-
based clothing retailer  Guess? Inc. (GES) , said during a Nov. 30 call
with analysts.  Unemployment Drops  Better job prospects may have supported some of the
improved views. Employment climbed by 120,000 workers in
November, and the jobless rate dropped to 8.6 percent, the
lowest since March 2009, from 9 percent, Labor Department
figures showed last week.  “Thin gruel for the holidays is better than no gruel at
all,”  Gary Langer , president of Langer Research Associates LLC
in New York, which compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in a
statement. “Unemployment, moreover, cracked 9 percent last week
for the first time since March; should its recovery continue,
consumer sentiment likely would trend up.”  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  