-- 
Corporate Tax Holiday Won’t Find Way Into Year-End Proposal

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-12-08T22:23:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/corporate-tax-holiday-won-t-find-way-into-year-end-proposal-2-.html
A proposal for a temporary tax
holiday on offshore corporate profits won’t be included in year-
end Republican legislation that includes a payroll tax cut
extension, according to House Speaker  John Boehner .  The measure, which had been stalled for months, emerged as
a candidate for inclusion in a payroll tax bill package getting
a strong push from House Republicans, particularly a bloc of
lawmakers elected in November 2010.  The repatriation initiative, backed by multinational
corporations including  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Brown-Forman Corp . and
 Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) , would let U.S. companies bring home offshore
earnings at a 5.25 percent tax rate, an 85 percent discount from
the 35 percent top corporate rate.  Boehner said today that the repatriation initiative
wouldn’t be part of legislation to extend a payroll tax cut in
2012.  Supporters including Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas
Republican who has sponsored tax holiday legislation, say a tax
holiday would encourage companies to invest money in the U.S.
instead of offshore and would stimulate the economy.  Many Democrats oppose a tax holiday, however, and key
Republicans, including Representative  Dave Camp , of  Michigan ,
head of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, are cool to
the idea of a stand-alone repatriation program.  ‘Take Another Look’  Camp has advocated addressing a tax holiday in the context
of broader changes to the tax code.  “We are hopeful that the congressional leadership will
take another look before closing the door on $1 trillion,” Doug
Thornell, spokesman for the  WIN America Campaign , a group of
multinational companies lobbying for a tax holiday, said in an
e-mailed statement this afternoon.  The WIN America group, which includes  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Pfizer Inc., says a tax holiday is needed because
U.S. corporations are taxed at higher rates than their overseas
rivals. Up to $1 trillion would be injected into the  U.S.
economy  if a temporary tax holiday was enacted, the group says
on its website.  Not all multinational companies embraced the tax holiday.  “Repatriation, singularly, is not helpful,” Wayne
Monfries, chief tax officer of Beaverton, Oregon-based  Nike
Inc. (NKE) , said yesterday at a briefing sponsored by the  RATE
Coalition , a group of companies lobbying for lower corporate tax
rates. “I think we have to have corporate  tax reform , and
repatriation should be part of corporate tax reform.”  President  Barack Obama  opposes a stand-alone repatriation
holiday in part because he wants taxation of overseas profits to
be addressed in a broader tax-code overhaul.  2004 Holiday  Congressional Democrats opposed to the proposal, including
Senator Carl Levin of Michigan, have said companies used money
from a 2004 repatriation program for stock buybacks and dividend
payments and in some cases eliminated jobs.  The non-partisan  Congressional Budget Office  ranked
repatriated overseas earnings last among 13 stimulus policy
options it evaluated in a Nov. 15  report .  Hopes for a repatriation holiday rose earlier this week,
after New Hampshire freshman Representative Frank Guinta
released a letter from 52 of 87  House Republicans  elected in
November 2010 urging Boehner and other Republican leaders urging
them “to consider repatriation tax policy, this session, to
stimulate the economy and get Americans back to work.”  U.S. Investment  Brady introduced his bill in May. Similar legislation in
the Senate was unveiled in October by  Kay Hagan , a North
Carolina Democrat, and John McCain, an Arizona Republican.  One reason for resistance among some lawmakers is the
projected cost of a tax holiday. The congressional Joint
Committee on Taxation reported in May that the proposal would
cost the U.S. Treasury an estimated $78.7 billion in forgone
revenue over a decade.  Repatriation supporters dispute the congressional tax
committee’s conclusion and point to another  study  that predicts
economic benefits from a tax holiday.  The congressional panel projected the revenue loss over a
decade because researchers expect companies would keep money
offshore in anticipation of another round of tax breaks.  Payroll Tax Extension  The task of passing a repatriation measure this year is
tough because the only legislative vehicle left for it is the
payroll tax extension, which benefits primarily low- and
moderate-income taxpayers, said  John Buckley , a former House
Democratic tax counsel who now teaches at  Georgetown University 
in  Washington .  “Can you imagine saying that you would hold up the payroll
tax cut extension for that?” Buckley said in a phone interview.
“If I were Barack Obama, I would say, ‘Make my day.’”  Passing a tax holiday as a stand-alone measure also would
complicate efforts toward a comprehensive overhaul of the  tax
code , according to Representative Richard Neal, a Massachusetts
Democrat who sits on the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee.  “If you give up now and accept what might be a short-term
bonanza or holiday, it’s going to be far harder to get tax
reform,” Neal said.  Douglas Holtz-Eakin, an adviser to McCain’s 2008
presidential campaign and former director of the Congressional
Budget Office, said it would be unwise to wait until 2012, an
election year, to try to pass repatriation legislation.  Political Perspective  “From a political perspective, I don’t think it’s
impossible to do next year, but you have to be realistic.
There’s a big agenda next year,” Holtz-Eakin said in a Dec. 1
conference call with reporters. “Putting this into that mix is
simply unwise. We should get it done now.”  Clint Stretch, managing principal of  tax policy  for
Deloitte Tax Partners, said it’s unlikely that Congress would
pass a tax holiday in 2012 if the initiative doesn’t advance
this year. Conventional wisdom is that Congress will avoid
addressing contentious issues in a presidential election year,
Stretch said.  “But if that stops working for them politically, they can
change, so there’s some small chance,” Stretch said.
“Nothing’s ever completely dead in politics.”  The bills are  HB 1834  and  S 1671 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  