-- 
Corzine Says He Doesn’t Know Where Missing Funds Are

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-12-08T22:17:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/corzine-to-tell-panel-he-doesn-t-know-where-missing-mf-global-millions-are.html
Jon S. Corzine told lawmakers he
never intended to break any rules as head of MF Global Holdings
Ltd. and doesn’t know what happened to an estimated $1.2 billion
in missing client funds.  “I’m not in a position, given the number of transactions,
to know anything specifically about the movement of any specific
funds,” Corzine said today at a House Agriculture Committee
hearing in Washington. “I certainly would never intend to
direct or have segregated funds moved.”  Under subpoena and under oath, the former Democratic
senator and New Jersey governor testified on  Capitol Hill  for
two and a half hours, repeatedly apologizing to investors,
customers and employees of the failed New York brokerage.  “I simply do not know where the money is, or why the
accounts have not been reconciled to date,” Corzine said. “I
apologize, both personally and on behalf of the company, to our
customers, our employees and our investors. I truly know that
they are bearing the brunt” of the collapse.  Under repeated questioning, Corzine said that he did not
knowingly authorize any movement of funds out of client
accounts, and that any such transfers could have been a
misunderstanding or misinterpretation of his intent.  ‘Fix This’  Corzine said that on the evening of Oct. 30, the night
before MF Global filed what has become the eighth-largest U.S.
bankruptcy, he was informed of the shortfall in client accounts
and told employees, “We’ve got to fix this,” and “We’ve got
to find the money.” He speculated that someone “could
misinterpret” such remarks.  James W. Giddens, the trustee overseeing the liquidation
of the firm, has estimated that $1.2 billion in client money is
missing. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Securities
and Exchange Commission and  Justice Department  are
investigating.  Corzine, who resigned as chairman and chief executive
officer of MF Global on Nov. 4, said in his opening remarks that
he was “stunned” when he learned that the company couldn’t
account for “many hundreds of millions of dollars.”  Corzine’s appearance before the House Agriculture
Committee, which oversees the CFTC, came after the panel voted
to issue a subpoena to compel his testimony. The Senate
Agriculture Committee and a House Financial Services
subcommittee also voted to subpoena Corzine.  Answering All Questions  Corzine didn’t once decline to answer a question or invoke
his Fifth Amendment right to remain silent.  “As a former United States senator who recognizes the
importance of congressional oversight, and recognizing my
position as former chief executive officer in these terrible
circumstances, I believe it is appropriate that I attempt to
respond to your inquiries,” Corzine said in a written statement
to the committee.  Corzine said he offered to testify to Congress without
subpoena in January, by which time he might have been better
able to prepare. “While I intend to be responsive to the best
of my ability today, without adequate time and materials to
prepare, I may be unable to respond to various questions members
might pose,” he told lawmakers.  CFTC commissioner Jill Sommers, testifying in advance of
Corzine, said regulators are still working to trace all the
transactions and that some client funds may be recovered.  “If there is any customer money that has been transferred
out of the accounts, that is part of what we are working
together to find and that money will be clawed back to be
distributed back to customers,” Sommers, the commissioner
overseeing the agency’s investigation of MF Global, told the
committee.  Penalties Possible  MF Global employees could face civil or criminal penalties
if rules or laws were violated, Sommers said.  “They are subject to civil prosecution under our rules,
and there would also be potential for criminal violations,”
Sommers said.  MF Global filed for  bankruptcy protection  after making
risky bets on some of  Europe ’s most indebted countries. Sommers
said that regulators haven’t found evidence that client funds
were incorporated in the European debt positions.  Under current rules, customer money is supposed to be kept
segregated from the firms’ accounts. “We were receiving daily
segregation reports from MF Global and those did not raise red
flags for us until right before the bankruptcy,” Sommers said.  If funds are missing because of internal errors at MF
Global, Corzine may have breached responsibilities under
Sarbanes-Oxley rules, according to Daniel Collins, a professor
of accounting at the University of  Iowa ’s Tippie College of
Business.  Corzine Vote  Under the 2002 law -- for which Corzine voted as senator --
top executives must certify the accuracy of financial statements
and assess whether they have sufficient safeguards to catch
fraud and bookkeeping errors. Corzine signed off on MF Global’s
quarterly reports prior to the bankruptcy.  “Whether these are operational errors or not is a serious
matter,” Collins said in a phone interview. “If effective
controls for monitoring the flow of the funds from the clients
through the different investments are not in place, then that
would be a breach of the Sarbanes-Oxley responsibilities of top
management.”  Internal Controls  President  George W. Bush  signed Sarbanes-Oxley into law
after accounting scandals at Enron Corp. and WorldCom Inc.
eroded investor confidence. Executives must also have internal
controls certified by an outside auditor under the law.  In his written statement, Corzine for the first time
provided details on so-called repurchase-to-maturity
transactions that have drawn legal and regulatory scrutiny in
the weeks since the bankruptcy. He described himself as a
“strong” advocate of the transactions while saying that
because he isn’t an accountant he can’t vouch for the way the
transactions were handled.  “I accept responsibility for the RTM trades that MF Global
engaged in from the time that I arrived at MF Global until my
departure, on November 3, 2011, and I strongly advocated the
trading strategy that I have described,” he said.  MF Global’s board was told of the European debt trades and
approved limits on the risk in the trades by specific countries,
Corzine told lawmakers. “The directors approved sovereign risk
limits for these RTM trades. At the time of the bankruptcy, MF
Global was within these risk limits,” he said.  None of the foreign debt securities that MF Global used in
the repo transactions has yet defaulted or been restructured,
Corzine said.  Lobbying Efforts  He acknowledged lobbying the CFTC and its Chairman  Gary Gensler , a former colleague at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., on a
rule change relating to how client funds can be invested.
Corzine said he took part in a conference call with Gensler on
the matter, a conversation that involved other officials.  “I did not exert undue or improper influence on
regulators,” Corzine told lawmakers. He said in his written
statement that he and Gensler saw each other at a number of
other personal and business events in 2010 and 2011, but that
the two didn’t discuss regulatory matters.  Gensler has recused himself from involvement in matters
related to the MF Global bankruptcy because of his ties to
Corzine, who was co-chairman of Goldman Sachs before entering
politics. The client funds rule, which was delayed by Gensler to
give commissioners more time to debate the regulation, has since
been completed.  Rating Downgrades  Corzine’s testimony detailed events leading up to the
firm’s bankruptcy, insisting that its losses were related to
ratings downgrades on its European debt portfolio, not to direct
losses on those positions. Following a disappointing earnings
report, clients and counterparties began to withdraw business
and collateral.  “Despite our best efforts to sell assets and generate
liquidity, the marketplace lost confidence in the firm,”
Corzine said.  Corzine reiterated that his knowledge of specific
transactions involving client funds was limited.  “There were an extraordinary number of transactions during
this period, the last few days of MF Global. And I do not know,
for example, whether there were operational errors at MF Global
or elsewhere, or whether banks and counterparties have held onto
funds that should rightfully have been returned to MF Global,”
Corzine said. “I am sure that the trustee in bankruptcy, the
SIPC receiver, and the regulators are working to answer these
questions and to understand precisely what happened during the
firm’s last days and hours.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  