-- 
Corzine, MF Global Executives Sued in Class Action by Commodity Traders

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-12-08T22:21:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/corzine-mf-global-executives-sued-in-class-action-by-commodity-traders.html
Jon Corzine  and other former  MF
Global Holdings Ltd.  executives were sued for damages by a group
of commodity traders.  Henning-Carey Proprietary Trading LLC, a clearing firm and
member of  CME Group Inc. (CME) , joined with eight traders in a suit in
federal court in  Chicago  saying that $1.2 billion in missing
money, or much of it, won’t be returned to brokerage customers.
They seek to recover losses they and other traders had on their
MF Global Inc. brokerage accounts as a result of the parent’s
Oct. 31 bankruptcy.  The suit is one of several filed by brokerage customers and
former employees against Corzine, MF Global executives or the
company itself since the bankruptcy. Corzine told the House
Agriculture Committee at a Washington hearing today that he
“would never have intended” transfers from segregated accounts
and had teams in place at the firm to ensure they didn’t occur.  He wouldn’t say if he and other executives were willing to
share customers’ losses. Corzine and his executives were
responsible for looking after customers’ segregated accounts,
yet the money went missing as the company tried to salvage its
business after “engaging in highly leveraged and speculative
trading in foreign sovereign bonds,” the traders alleged.  Frozen Accounts  The plaintiffs’ accounts were frozen along with about
38,000 others on Oct. 31, after “apparent segregation
violations,” making it impossible for customers to access their
accounts or the assets in them, they said.  MF Global trustee James Giddens, who is liquidating the
brokerage, has transferred about 38,000 commodity accounts to
other firms, and plans to sell 330 securities accounts, he said.
Three transfers of collateral made and pending will give
commodity customers about $4 billion of their assets, according
to court filings.  The parent company’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy filing, the eighth-
largest in U.S. history, listed assets of $41 billion.  Corzine, the former co-chief executive officer of Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., quit as MF Global’s CEO on Nov. 4.  Andrew Levander, a lawyer for Corzine, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The traders also are seeking punitive damages and legal
costs after a  jury trial .  The case is Henning-Carey v. Corzine, 11-cv-08717, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  