-- 
CRH Makes Plans for Potential Euro Breakup as Sales Growth Hurt

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-12-08T11:15:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/crh-makes-plans-for-potential-euro-breakup-as-sales-growth-hurt.html
CRH Plc (CRH) , Ireland’s biggest company,
is making contingency plans for a possible breakup of the euro
as the debt crisis crimps sales growth in the region.  While countries leaving the euro was “hopefully
unthinkable,” the Dublin-based supplier of building materials
is making preparations “as any responsible company should have
in place,” Chief Executive Officer Myles Lee said.  “As the market concerns about the  euro zone  intensified,
we have seen that like-for-like sales growth moderating through
the back end of the year” in the euro region, he said in an
interview with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television.  European leaders begin talks today to frame the fifth
“comprehensive” solution in 19 months to the region’s debt
crisis that led Ireland to seek an international bailout last
year.  Germany  expressed pessimism about the outcome of the
talks, which are scheduled to finish tomorrow.  Last month, Lee said he expected the fourth quarter to be
flat this year rather than showing an improvement as the debt
crisis affects investment.  Europe  accounted for 58 percent of
CRH’s 8.2 billion euros ($11 billion) of first-half sales.  “We are hoping the summit over the next few days will
provide some more concrete solution to the issues,” Lee said.
“We’re concerned that if the European authorities don’t get
ahead of markets on this that it could have a negative effect on
demand in the eurozone in 2012.”  The  European Central Bank  will today announce a decision on
its  interest rate  at 1:45 p.m. in  Frankfurt , with 53 of 58
economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast it will cut the rate
by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 1 percent.  Ireland’s Central Bank today declined to comment on a Wall
Street Journal report that it is considering whether it may need
to acquire further printing capacity in case the euro collapses
or the country exits the currency and reverts to punts.  “We are not printing punts or any other currency,” said
Nicola Faulkner, a spokeswoman for the central bank, without
referring to the article. “We are only printing euros.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  