-- 
Cuba Oil Drilling Tests U.S. on Protecting Florida

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-12-08T05:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/cuba-oil-drilling-tests-u-s-on-protecting-florida-or-embargo.html
Four U.S. inspectors armed with
safety glasses and notebooks will set out on a mission next
month to protect  Florida ’s beaches from a Cuban threat.  They’ll rendezvous in Trinidad and Tobago with the Scarabeo
9, a rig headed to deep waters off Cuba to drill for oil about
70 miles (113 kilometers) south of Florida’s Key West.  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  is making the Scarabeo 9 available to the
U.S. inspectors before the rig starts drilling closer to Florida
than the BP Plc well that failed last year in the Gulf of
Mexico, causing the biggest U.S. offshore oil spill. The
exploration poses an environmental, political and diplomatic
challenge to the U.S. more than 50 years after cutting off
relations with Cuba’s communist regime.  The Obama administration’s dilemma is “what steps to take
for environmental protection and how much to honor current Cuba
policy,” Dan Whittle, Cuba program director at the New York-
based  Environmental Defense Fund , said in an interview.  In the aftermath of the revolution that brought  Fidel Castro  to power, the U.S. banned exports to Cuba in 1960,
withdrew diplomatic recognition, backed the failed Bay of Pigs
invasion in 1961 and imposed a full trade embargo in 1962.  Now generations of animosity between the two nations limit
cooperation on safety standards and cleanup precautions for the
Cuba drilling planned by Madrid-based Repsol, which would be
followed by state-owned companies from  Malaysia  to Venezuela. A
conference on regional oil-spill response being held this week
in Nassau, Bahamas, may provide a forum for discussions by U.S.
and Cuban representatives.  Juan Jacomino, a spokesman for the Cuban Interests Section
at the Swiss embassy in  Washington , declined in an interview to
comment on drilling off of the island nation.  Spare Parts  Repsol can use the Scarabeo 9 without violating the U.S.
trade embargo because it was built at shipyards in China and
 Singapore , and fewer than 10 percent of its components are
American, according to its owner,  Eni SpA. (ENI)   The sanctions would block spare parts from the U.S. for the
rig’s blowout preventer, a safety device that failed in the BP
spill. The restrictions also require  Helix Energy Solutions
Group Inc. (HLX)  of Houston, which provides oil-spill containment
equipment for Repsol in the Gulf of Mexico, to seek a waiver to
do so in Cuban waters in case of an accident.  U.S. companies seeking to do business with Cuba must ask
the Commerce Department, which considers most applications
“subject to a policy of denial,” the agency says on its
website. The Treasury Department weighs requests to travel from
the U.S. to Cuba.  Granting too few permits for spill prevention and response
would keep contractors from offering the technology and services
developed after the BP spill, Lee Hunt, president of the
Houston-based International Association of Drilling Contractors,
said in an interview.  Cuban Exiles  Approving too many licenses would undermine the embargo,
enriching a regime listed by the U.S. State Department as a
nation supporting terrorism along with Iran, Sudan and Syria,
according to anti-Castro lawmakers such as Republican
Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of Florida, who heads the
House Foreign Affairs Committee.  U.S. “assistance, guidance and technical advice” to
Repsol, including the planned visit to Scarabeo 9, may violate
the law by “helping to facilitate” the company’s work and
providing the Cuban government “with a financial windfall,”
Ros-Lehtinen said in a Nov. 1 letter to President  Barack Obama .  Ros-Lehtinen, who immigrated from Cuba with her family at
age 8, is a leader among Cuban exiles in South Florida who have
opposed easing U.S. restrictions. Florida, which has been a
swing state in presidential elections, also has been a bastion
of opposition to oil drilling that opponents say could despoil
the beaches that are a prime draw for tourists.  Florida Drilling Foes  Lawmakers such as Senator  Bill Nelson , a Florida Democrat,
have fought to keep drilling out of U.S. waters in the eastern
 Gulf of Mexico  bordering Florida.  Nelson and Senator Robert Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat,
introduced a bill Nov. 9 that would require foreign companies
drilling in Cuban waters to pay for damage to U.S. territory
without liability limits. Senator  Marco Rubio , a Florida
Republican, joined as a cosponsor.  Oil from BP’s spill tarred beaches 150 miles away in
Florida’s northwestern Panhandle.  Now Floridians are faced with drilling under the
jurisdiction of Cubans, who “don’t have the resources” to
control a blowout, Jorge Pinon, an energy consultant and
visiting research fellow at the Cuban Research Institute at
Florida International University in Miami, said in an interview.  “If the U.S. is not willing to help” in an emergency,
“the resources are going to come from  Canada ,  Norway  and the
U.K., and it will take a very long time,” said Pinon, who led
Amoco Corp. units in Mexico City and retired from BP in 2003,
according to his biography.  Repsol’s Contract  Repsol signed a contract with Cuba in  2000 , according to
the company’s website, and confirmed the presence of oil with a
Norwegian rig in 2004. Repsol will drill in about 5,000 feet
(1.5 kilometers) to 6,000 feet of water, about the depth of BP’s
Macondo well, according to Pinon.  Petroliam Nasional Bhd., or Petronas, based in  Kuala
Lumpur ; New Delhi-based Oil & Natural Gas Corp.; Hanoi-based
Vietnam Oil & Gas Group, known as PetroVietnam; Caracas-based
Petroleos de  Venezuela  SA; and Sonangol SA of Luanda,  Angola ,
also hold Cuban blocks, Pinon said.  U.S. officials say they are doing all they can to ensure
safe drilling off Cuba.  “We are quite focused, and have been for many, many
months” on “doing anything within our power to protect U.S.
shores and U.S. coastline,” Tommy Beaudreau, director of the
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, an industry regulator, said
in a Nov. 29 interview at Bloomberg’s Washington office.  Wild Well Control  The administration has issued some licenses to U.S.
companies to respond to a spill in Cuban waters, Mark Toner, a
spokesman for the State Department, said in an e-mail. He didn’t
say how many have been approved, and the Commerce and Treasury
departments didn’t respond to e-mailed requests for comment.  Wild Well Control Inc. of Houston is one permit recipient,
according to Hunt of the drilling contractors’ trade group. The
company didn’t respond to e-mails and phone calls seeking
comment.  “Helix plans to build a new subsea containment cap to
safeguard drilling operations in Cuba,” Cameron Wallace, a
spokesman for that company said in an e-mail about its request
for U.S. licenses. “The cap and associated equipment will be
staged at a U.S. port near to the drilling site to minimize
response time.”  Walking the Deck  In their visit to the Scarabeo 9, two inspectors from the
U.S. Coast Guard and two from the Interior Department will walk
the deck and check generators, the positioning system and
firefighting equipment, Brian Khey, who will be on the team,
said in an interview.  The Americans will watch a firefighting simulation and
conduct an abandon-ship drill, according to Khey, the supervisor
at the Coast Guard’s Outer Continental Shelf National Center of
Expertise in Morgan City, Louisiana,  While the visitors will discuss with Repsol any
deficiencies they find, they won’t have enforcement powers, Khey
said. Nor will they be able to check the blowout preventer or
the well casing and drilling fluid that will be used on site,
according to the Interior Department.  Scarabeo 9 was built “according to the latest and most
advanced international standards available at the time of her
design and construction,” Rome-based Eni said in an e-mailed
statement. “Health, safety and environmental protection are
always a top priority.”  Eni Subsidiary  The vessel “is one of the very few units in the industry
which is using a technology which is not an American one,”
Pietro Franco Tali, chief executive officer of Eni’s oilfield-
services subsidiary,  Saipem SpA (SPM) , said on an Oct. 27, 2010,
conference call.  One U.S. component is the blowout preventer, made by
Houston-based  National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV)  The company hasn’t
applied for a license to do business with Cuba and doesn’t plan
to, Chief Financial Officer Clay Williams said in a phone
interview.  That means rig operators will have to seek training and
spare parts in Europe or  Asia , according to Hunt, whose group
represents 1,494 companies including Saipem.  “It’s like buying a Mercedes and being told you have to go
to a Ford dealer for parts,” Hunt said in an interview.  The results of Cuba’s drilling may affect U.S. energy
policy. Success would put pressure on the U.S. to open its
waters surrounding Florida for exploration, Pinon said.  A serious accident off of Cuba could throw the industry out
of the Gulf of Mexico, according to Brian Petty, executive vice
president for governmental affairs of the drilling contractors’
group.  “A mess” in Cuban waters would lead critics of drilling
to say, “Stop it, don’t let it go on anywhere,” Petty said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  