-- 
CVC’s Nine Entertainment Said to Drop Plans to Extend A$2.8 Billion Loan

-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-12-08T18:14:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/cvc-asia-pacific-said-to-abandon-nine-entertainment-debt-extension-talks.html
Nine Entertainment Co., the
Australian media company owned by CVC Asia Pacific Ltd., has
dropped a proposal asking senior lenders to extend the maturity
of a A$2.8 billion ($2.9 billion) loan to 2015, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter.  CVC Capital Partners Ltd., a London-based buyout firm, will
continue talks with lenders, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
on a revised proposal to refinance the Australian media company,
said one of the people, who declined to be identified as the
details are private.  Nine was forced to scrap the plan after banks, including
Credit Agricole SA and BNP Paribas SA, sold their portion of the
loans to hedge funds, which are seeking to take control of the
media company, the Australian Financial Review reported. Goldman
Sachs, which owns about 20 percent of the so-called mezzanine
debt and manages the rest on behalf of other investors, has
agreed to swap its debt for equity, the AFR  reported  today,
without saying where it got the information. Mezzanine debt is
the layer of funding between common equity and senior debt.  “CVC has proactively commenced discussions with its
lenders regarding refinancing options,” CVC said in an e-mailed
statement today. Nine’s “senior debt matures in February 2013
and there is no current requirement to refinance this debt in
advance,” it said. The company “is not in breach of any of its
financial covenants or in default under any of its banking
agreements.”  Hayley Morris, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs in  Hong
Kong , declined to comment.  Profit Up  Nine, which owns one of Australia’s three commercial free-
to-air television networks, posted $415 million in earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the
full year as of June 2011, up 16 percent from the previous year,
CVC said in the statement.  The media company was sold by billionaire  James Packer  in
2006 to raise A$4.5 billion to fund his push into gaming.
Typically, private investors restructure acquired companies and
later issue new shares to the public to profit. Share sales by
Australian and New Zealand firms are on course for the slowest
year since 2004, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Senior Debt Split  Nine had been offering senior lenders an increased margin
of 400 basis points more than the bank-bill swap rate on the
debt, plus a 75-basis point fee if they agreed to the extension
by mid-December, people with knowledge of the matter said last
month.  CVC has asked lenders to consider splitting the senior debt
into a higher-ranking A$1.8 billion portion and A$900 million of
high-yield warrants, the AFR reported today.  Nine owes about A$900 million to mezzanine lenders, which
is due in April 2014, data compiled by Bloomberg show. CVC
bought its first stake in Nine, then called PBL Media, in
February 2007, according to information on the private-equity
firm’s website. Nine has revenue of almost A$2 billion and
employs 4,500.  CVC’s buyout of Nine, known as PBL Media until December
2010, was the biggest mezzanine finance transaction completed in
 Australia  at the time, according to information on a Goldman
Sachs  website . The debt was one of 15 investments made by
Goldman Sachs’s mezzanine portfolio, according to the site.  The investment in Nine was made through four CVC funds and
represents less than 5 percent of CVC’s private-equity funds
under management, the buyout firm said today in the statement.
CVC is currently investing a 10.8 billion-euro ($14.4 billion)
European buyout fund and a $4.12 billion Asian pool, both raised
in 2008.  CVC’s overall funds performance “continues to be top
quartile after fully reflecting the latest financial position of
Nine Entertainment,” the firm said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  