-- 
David Ortiz Wins Designated Hitter Award, Accepts Red Sox Arbitration

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-12-08T05:00:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/david-ortiz-wins-designated-hitter-award-accepts-red-sox-arbitration.html
David Ortiz  was honored as baseball’s
best designated hitter on the day he accepted a Red Sox offer of
salary arbitration that will keep him in  Boston  at least for
next season.  Ortiz, 36, who hit .309 with 29 home runs and 96 runs
batted in this past season, was named yesterday as the winner of
the 2011 Edgar Martinez Outstanding Designated Hitter Award.
It’s the sixth time Ortiz has won the accolade, including five
straight from 2003-07.  Ortiz told WEEI.com in a telephone interview that he had
agreed to arbitration, which means he’ll decline free agency and
get a one-year deal. The amount of his contract will be
determined in an arbitration hearing.  “How would I not be excited about having the DH of the
year as DH?” new Red Sox manager  Bobby Valentine  told reporters
yesterday at baseball’s Winter Meetings in Dallas.  Ortiz’s 2011 salary was $12.5 million and he had been
seeking a multiyear contract, which the two sides still could
negotiate instead of going through arbitration.  Ortiz received 73 first-place votes out of 84 ballots cast
to become the player with the most designated hitter awards
since its debut in 1973. He had been tied on five with Martinez,
for whom the award is now named.  Detroit’s  Victor Martinez  finished second in the voting and
Kansas City’s Billy Butler was third. Results were announced
yesterday at the Winter Meetings.  A seven-time All-Star who has finished among the top five
in American League Most Valuable Player voting in five of his
nine seasons with the  Red Sox , Ortiz has 378 home runs in 15
Major League Baseball seasons with Minnesota and Boston.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  