-- 
Demonstrators Stage Joblessness Protest at Boehner Office

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-12-08T22:12:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/demonstrators-protesting-joblessness-gather-at-boehner-s-office.html
About 100 demonstrators protesting
joblessness gathered outside an office of House Speaker  John Boehner  in Washington today, chanting slogans as police looked
on and dispersing peacefully after about an hour.  “One, we’re unemployed, two, we are united. Three, tell
the speaker we’re not leaving,” the protesters said in unison
outside Boehner’s personal office, located across the street
from the U.S. Capitol in the Longworth House Office Building.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, rarely works out of that
office and wasn’t there during the protest. Since becoming
speaker in January 2011, he uses offices in the Capitol.  The protest came as Boehner released legislation that,
while extending  unemployment  benefits set to expire at year’s
end, also would reduce the eligibility period for the aid.  Under Boehner’s proposal, the maximum period for the
jobless benefits would be scaled back in steps to 59 weeks from
the current 99 weeks. The provision is part of a package that
also would extend a  payroll  tax cut for workers scheduled to end
Dec. 31.  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
told reporters that she opposed shrinking the maximum period of
benefits by 40 weeks. She said the plan would be “problematic”
for her fellow Democrats.  President  Barack Obama  has proposed reducing to 79 weeks
the maximum period for unemployment aid.  Before protesters arrived outside the Boehner office, a
dozen Capitol Police officers were sent to the hallway outside
Boehner’s office and a lieutenant was overhead by reporters
instructing them to allow demonstrators to gather and chant as
long as they weren’t too loud or disruptive. Boehner staff
members were keeping the office doors locked to prevent
demonstrators from entering, the officer told her colleagues.  Sergeant Kimberly Schneider, a spokeswoman for the Capitol
Police, said there were no arrests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 