-- 
Detroit on Review by Moody’s Will Pay $211 Million to Cut Swaps

-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 
2011-12-08T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/detroit-under-moody-s-review-will-pay-211-million-to-end-swaps.html
Detroit ’s general-obligation bond
rating may be cut by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited a
potential state takeover, as  Michigan ’s biggest city readies a
bond sale that will include $211.6 million to unwind swap deals.  The city would pay about $294.7 million to undo some of the
interest-rate swap contracts linked to water and sewer debt
while getting almost $83.1 million for unwinding others, a
preliminary offering document shows.  Detroit  also faces payments
of about $400 million tied to swaps on pension-system financing
if Michigan takes over, Moody’s said yesterday in a statement.  “The state appointment of an emergency manager would in
turn trigger a termination event under the city’s swap
agreements,” Moody’s said. The pension swap agreements are with
Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Siebert Brandford Shank & Co. in  New
York , the rating company said.  Michigan Treasurer Andy Dillon said Dec. 2 that a
preliminary examination of the city’s finances would begin this
week, the first step toward a state takeover and the reason
cited by Moody’s for putting the credit under review. At Ba3,
Moody’s already grades Detroit’s general-obligation bonds three
steps below investment level. The New York-based rating company
is also reviewing the city’s water and sewer debt.  Path Toward Court  Putting the city’s finances under an emergency manager “is
a requisite step in the path toward state approval for a
bankruptcy filing,” Moody’s said. While the risk of Detroit
seeking court protection is “rising” it remains “low,” the
company said.  Moody’s also cited a potential for the repeal of Michigan’s
emergency manager law, under a statewide ballot measure next
year. The statute covers financially distressed municipalities
and school districts.  Detroit may sell $493.4 million in water and sewer bonds as
soon as next week to pay for construction, to unwind the swaps
and to refinance part of the system’s $2.18 billion in
securities outstanding, according to the preliminary document.  Dillon and Republican Governor  Rick Snyder  have said they
want to avoid a state takeover of Detroit, Michigan’s biggest
city. Mayor Dave Bing, a Democrat, and the City Council face a
$44 million cash shortfall by June 2012, in addition to an
existing $155 million budget deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  