-- 
Dizzying Array of Non-Market Climate Finance Is Messy, PwC Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-12-08T15:39:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/dizzying-array-of-non-market-climate-finance-is-messy-pwc-says.html
Developed nations are offering
emerging countries a “dizzying” choice of non-carbon-market
climate aid amid accusations they aren’t doing their fair share
to halt global warming, said PricewaterhouseCoopers.  “Donor programs have been springing up left, right and
center,” said Celine Herweijer, a director in PwC’s climate
change team in  London . “For developing nations, it can be quite
dizzying. It’s a messy environment,” she said yesterday after
returning from environment-protection negotiations in Durban,
 South Africa .  This month’s talks, planned to finish tomorrow, have a
chance to improve the flow of direct funding from governments of
developed nations to poorer countries and help increase payments
from private sources, Herweijer said. Some developing nations
are suspicious that leveraging private finance is a way for
countries to reduce their public pledges, she said Dec. 3  in a
website statement .  Climate envoys from almost 200 nations are putting together
a Green Climate Fund that will help harmonize aid to developing
nations, PwC said. Public climate flows reached $37 billion last
year, more than estimates in previous years, the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development said in a  report  on
Dec. 1. Private flows were at least $80 billion.  Climate finance stems from about 40 nations listed as
developed under the UN Framework Convention on  Climate Change ,
as well as from about  25 public funds  and about 15  development
banks . Investment from the main UN carbon-offsetting market, the
Clean Development Mechanism, dropped 80 percent in the past four
years to $1.5 billion in 2010, World Bank data from June shows.  Stimulating Private Money  “Governments are beginning to use public money to
stimulate private money, for example by cutting risk,”
Herweijer said. Richer nations will need to work hard to win the
trust of the poorer nations and make sure as little as possible
taxpayer money is wasted at a time when governments are seeking
overall spending cuts, she said.  U.S. Special Envoy on Climate Change Todd Stern said today
it’s a “misconception” that the nation is seeking to delay the
fight against global warming past 2020 and that he’s pushing for
immediate action.  Speaking at the talks in Durban, Stern said the U.S. is
confident the meeting will finish work on the Green Climate Fund
that would channel as much as $100 billion a year in climate aid
to developing nations.  The U.K. government said Dec. 6 it paid out two-thirds of
its 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4 billion) of “fast-start” finance
for climate protection and adaptation in developing nations
promised for 2010 to 2012. The EU will spend 14 billion euros
($18.7 billion) in the seven years through 2020, it said
yesterday.  U.K. Spend  Britain spent 487 million pounds this year, compared with
569 million pounds last year,  according to a document  on the
website of the Department of Energy and Climate Change. It has
budgeted 2.9 billion pounds through 2015.  One program includes putting together climate-change
adaptation plans, which have been endorsed for  Bangladesh ,
 Bolivia ,  Cambodia ,  Mozambique ,  Nepal , Niger, Tajikistan, Zambia,
Grenada,  Jamaica ,  St. Vincent  and the Grenadines, St. Lucia and
Samoa, according to the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  