-- 
Dodgers TV Rights Worth $100 Million a Year, Fox Expert Testifies

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-12-08T19:58:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/dodgers-tv-rights-worth-100-million-a-year-fox-expert-testifies.html
Television rights for the  Los Angeles
Dodgers  are worth about $100 million a year, an expert for Fox
Sports told a judge presiding over the Major League Baseball
team’s bankruptcy.  Edwin Desser, president of Desser Sports Media Inc., was
testifying on behalf of Fox, which is fighting to prevent the
Dodgers from soliciting bids for future media rights before
Fox’s exclusive negotiating period ends.  Time Warner Cable Inc. is likely to be a bidder for the
rights in part because the company won the right to show future
Los Angeles Lakers’ games on a new regional sports network,
Desser said. Desser helped the Lakers basketball team negotiate
the new television deal with Time Warner, which replaced Fox
Sports.  Competition for sports programming is driving up the price
companies are willing to pay for media rights, Desser said.  “I suspect that Time Warner is going to be very interested
and Fox is going to be very aware of that,” Desser said. “It
has clearly provided some motivation for Fox.”  New Contract  The team and Fox Sports Net West 2 LLC are fighting over a
proposal to solicit bids for future TV rights. Fox Sports, a
unit of New York-based  News Corp. (NWSA) , can broadcast games through
the 2013 season and has an exclusive right to negotiate a new
contract until December 2012, according to court records.  Desser has worked for more than 35 years in the sports
media industry, specializing in negotiating TV contracts and
advising teams on the value of future rights, he said. He
previously was the  National Basketball Association ’s director of
broadcasting and head of broadcasting for the Los Angeles Lakers
basketball team and Los Angeles Kings hockey team.  Fox opposes any early effort to garner competing bids for
TV rights, claiming that  Frank McCourt , the Dodgers’ owner, is
wrongly trying use bankruptcy to break the team’s contract with
Fox’s Prime Ticket unit.  McCourt has agreed to sell the team. As part of that
effort, the Dodgers want court permission to solicit bids on a
new media rights contract. The team may be worth about $1
billion, according to court records filed by the Dodgers.  Bidding Process  The Dodgers are seeking to accelerate the bidding process
and start talking to potential TV-rights buyers now. The team
would begin by giving Fox 45 days to extend its contract. Should
those negotiations fail, the team would seek other offers,
according to court documents.  Desser testified earlier that Fox’s current contract was
designed to increases the company’s chances of retaining the
television rights. He said he decided to represent Fox and
testify on its behalf because he believed the Dodgers were
treating the company unfairly by trying to start soliciting bids
for future rights early.  Under an agreement between the Dodgers and  Major League
Baseball , no sale of the TV rights can go forward without
approval from MLB, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross and
whomever wins the bidding for the team.  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story,
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 