-- 
Dodgers’ Television Contract Designed to Bind Team to Fox, Witness Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-12-08T16:51:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/dodgers-tv-contract-was-designed-to-bind-team-to-fox-sports-witness-says.html
The Los Angeles Dodgers’ contract
with Fox Sports, which the network claims gives it an exclusive
right to negotiate for the baseball team’s television rights,
was “designed to perpetuate a marriage,” a Fox witness said.  Edwin Desser, president of Desser Sports Media Inc., a
company that represents sports teams in media arrangements, said
today that so-called back-end provisions in the Dodgers’ current
TV deal “provide a very high likelihood that the team and the
network continue their relationship.”  “The incumbent nine times out of 10 renews its right,”
Desser testified in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,
Delaware. Fox’s exclusive right to negotiate with the Dodgers
through November 2012 was structured as “an anti-cheating
provision” designed to keep the Major League Baseball team
faithful to the network, Desser said.  Desser has worked more than 35 years in the sports media
industry, specializing in negotiating TV contracts and advising
teams on the value of future rights, he said. He previously was
the  National Basketball Association ’s director of broadcasting
and head of broadcasting for the Los Angeles Lakers basketball
team and Los Angeles Kings hockey team.  The Dodgers and Fox Sports Net West 2 LLC are fighting over
the team’s proposal to solicit bids for future TV rights. Fox
Sports, a unit of New York-based  News Corp. (NWSA) , currently has a
contract to broadcast Dodgers games through the 2013 season.  Prime Ticket  Fox claims that  Frank McCourt , the Dodgers’ owner, is
wrongly trying to use bankruptcy to break the team’s contract
with Fox’s Prime Ticket unit.  The team has said it wants to start talking to potential
TV-rights buyers now. The Dodgers first would give Fox 45 days
to extend its contract. Should those negotiations fail, the team
would seek other offers, according to court documents.  The proposed time frame “essentially truncated” Fox’s
rights and “cuts it down by 10 1/2 months,” Desser said. “One
can see significant decay in Prime Ticket if they cannot retain
these rights.”  The proposed TV rights sale “is not necessary to complete
the sale of the team” and probably isn’t needed to pay off the
team’s debt, Desser said. “The Dodgers are going to be very
handsomely rewarded for their rights in 2014,” he said.  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in New York at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  