-- 
ECB’s Draghi Says Financial-Market Tensions Damping Growth

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-12-08T14:35:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/draghi-says-financial-market-tensions-damping-economic-growth.html
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi comments on monetary policy and the risks facing the
euro-region economy.  He spoke at a press conference in  Frankfurt  today after the
central bank cut the benchmark  interest rate  by 25 basis points
to 1 percent.  On non-standard measures:  “The governing council decided to adopt further non-
standard measures. They should ensure enhanced access of the
banking sector to liquidity and facilitate the functioning of
the euro-area money market. They are expected to support the
provision of credit to households and non-financial
corporations.”  The ECB will “conduct two longer-term refinancing
operations, otherwise called LTROs, with a maturity of 36 months
and the option of early repayment after one year. The operations
will be conducted as fixed rate tender procedures with full
allotment. The rate in these operations will be fixed at the
average rate of the main refinancing operations over the life of
the respective operations. The interest will be paid when the
respective operation matures. The first operation will be
allotted on Dec. 21, 2011 and will replace the 12-month LTRO
announced on Oct. 6, 2011.”  “Second, to increase collateral availability by reducing
the rating threshold for certain asset-backed securities. In
addition to the ABS that are already eligible for Eurosystem
operations, ABS having a second best rating of at least ‘‘single
A’’ in the Eurosystem harmonized credit scale at issuance, and
at all times subsequently, and the underlying assets of which
comprise residential mortgages and loans to small and medium-
sized enterprises, will be eligible for use as collateral in
Eurosystem credit operations.”  “Moreover, national central banks will be allowed, as a
temporary solution, to accept as collateral additional
performing credit claims (namely bank loans) that satisfy
specific eligibility criteria. The responsibility entailed in
the acceptance of such credit claims will be borne by the
national central bank authorizing their use. These measures will
take effect as soon as the relevant legal acts have been
published.”  “Third, to reduce the reserve ratio, which is currently 2
percent, to 1 percent. This will free up collateral and support
money market activity. As a consequence of the full allotment
policy applied in the ECB’s main refinancing operations and the
way banks are using this option, the system of  reserve
requirements  is not needed to the same extent as under normal
circumstances to steer money market conditions. This measure
will take effect as of the maintenance period starting on 18
January 2012.”  “Fourth, to discontinue for the time being, as of the
maintenance period starting on 14 December 2011, the fine-tuning
operations carried out on the last day of each maintenance
period. This is a technical measure to support money market
activity.”  “All non-standard measures are by construction temporary
in nature.”  On whether the ECB discussed putting a limit on bond yields:  “The answer is no. we never discussed that.”  On bond-purchase sterilizations:  “One may have unexpected amounts that are not sterilized
immediately. It happened six times out of 18 operations. The
amount that was unsterilized has been sterilized in the
following days. We ought to be reassured by this. Sterilization
of the SMP is one of the preconditions for having this program.
There may be technical aspects that don’t ensure the immediate
sterilization.”  On bank funding, ECB measures:  “We have a deposit facility which is not distant to what
we had after Lehman. Despite the significant liquidity we’ve
injected so far, it doesn’t circulate.”  “All these developments can be explained, saying there are
funding pressures, there are pressures to raise  capital ratios ;
to some extent the measures we have presented today are meant to
address funding pressures.”  “The lengthening of the term funding should give
confidence and should give certainty to the funding profiles of
the banks.” Next year “will be a year when lots of bonds come
to maturity.”  “The idea of lengthening term funding is also to see
whether we can keep the banking system liquidity in the presence
of serious strains.”  On bank capital:  “It’s important that banks raise their capital, but they
should do it in a way that wouldn’t imply a reduction in
lending. That’s not an easy task at this point of time.”  The ECB measures today “are meant to channel financing to
the real economy, to help the financial services industry” and
to “avoid credit tightening at a time when they’re experiencing
serious funding pressures. The broader use of collateral is
meant to attract banks that presently don’t have access” to
facilities.  On inflation, economy:  “Inflation is likely to stay above 2 percent for several
months to come. The intensified financial market tensions
continue to dampen” economic growth in the euro region, with
“substantial downside risks. At the same time, the underlying
pace of monetary expansion remains moderate. It’s essential for
monetary policy to maintain  price stability  over the medium
term.”  “Evidence from survey data points to weaker economic
activity in the fourth quarter of this year. A number of factors
seem to be dampening the underlying growth momentum -- they
include a moderation of global pace of growth” as well as
“balance sheet adjustments in the financial and non-financial
sectors. We expect euro-area activity to recover, albeit very
gradually, in the course of next year, supported by resilient
global demand.”  “Substantial downside risks to the outlook exist in an
environment of high uncertainty. Downside risks also relate to
the global economy, which may be weaker than expected, as well
as the possibility of a disorderly correction of global
imbalances.”  On inflation, the governing council “continues to view the
risks for the medium term outlook as broadly balanced. The main
risks relate to a further increase in indirect taxes. The main
downside risks relate to the impact of weaker than expected
growth in the euro area and globally.”  “Taking the appropriate medium-term perspective, and
looking through short-term volatility, the underlying monetary
pace remains moderate.”  On inflation outlook:  “What makes us sure that the inflation profile will
gradually decline to below 2 percent by end of next year? At
present inflation is higher because of indirect taxes, because
of energy and commodity prices. Our forecasts tell us that it
should decline.”  “Commodity prices, energy prices, indirect taxes, they’re
all factors we view as either declining later or one-off. That’s
why we have the profile that says inflation should decline by
year-end next year.”  On the ECB rate outlook:  “We never pre-commit.”  On whether there’s a taboo of cutting rates below 1 percent:  “We never pre-commit.”  On whether the ECB discussed cutting by 50 basis points today:  “We didn’t even discuss. We discussed only what you see
and some were in favour and some were not in favour.”  On helping restore confidence in bonds:  “The rate cuts are meant to address where you have weaker
global growth, heightened uncertainty -- overall a domestic
economy which is weakening. I won’t use the word toxic for the
euro-area bonds. The present stressed conditions depend on the
lack of the first two pillars of the concept of this compact.
One of the national policies is gradually falling into place. We
have to see more improvement. The redesign of the compact is
what’s happening now. Let’s see.”  On today’s ECB meeting:  “It was a discussion, it was a lively discussion. One
shouldn’t abuse this word ‘lively’ because we’re central bank
governors. We were divided not because of the substance but
because of the timing.”  Asked if today’s decision was unanimous, he said “no.”  “If you read the statement you’ll see that the measures
are broad and complex. The rate cut is only one. The discussion
has been broad and complex, exactly as the measures that were
approved. It would be unthinkable to have unanimity on all the
measures.”  On fiscal policies:  “All euro-area governments urgently need to do their
utmost” for fiscal sustainability. “Policy makers need to
correct excessive deficits and move to balanced budgets in the
coming years. This will strengthen overall economic sentiment.
To accompany fiscal consolidation, the governing council has
called for bold and ambitious structural reforms.”  “This fiscal consolidation is unavoidable” and “there’s
not much of a choice here. It’s true that fiscal consolidations
are contractions in the short term. We should be aware that the
confidence-enhancing effect depends on two factors -- the first
is that national economic policies are geared to fiscal
stability, but the second is linked to the progress in the
design of the new European fiscal rules, fiscal compact.”  “Second, we’re aware of this. That’s why we say that
structural reforms are essential to job creation and growth.
There’s one reason why it’s so important to do this. Having a
fiscal contraction in the short term has a contractionary effect
on growth. But you can count on external demand. We have
countries undergoing a very significant fiscal contraction that
managed to keep growth rates that” others are not able to
maintain.  On a fiscal compact:  “An ex-ante constraint of an automatic nature would
increase the nature of this redesign of the fiscal compact that
is in these very hours in the course of discussions. My
preference on the stabilization mechanism is that it goes to the
EFSF first and the ESM later” and it should be made operational
“sooner rather than later.”  On  Italy :  “The developments in Italy have been very encouraging.
It’s a budget, it’s an important budget, that will certainly
strengthen confidence. Further measures will have to follow
geared to growth and competitiveness. The essence is in the
delivery. These measures have now been legislated but the
process of legislation and implementation is still in its
course.”  On the EFSF and the ESM:  “I don’t want to enter into this field, which is a
competence of the leaders. I made clear what’s our view about
fiscal rules. What legally is the best way to have them
implemented is a matter for lawyers. I would stress one thing --
it’s very important to have a credible legal process, but it’s
also equally important to have something that is going to be in
place soon.”  On deflation risks:  “At the present time, we don’t see any high probability of
deflation.”  On use of IMF:  “Let’s not forget the ECB is not an IMF member. More
generally, I can repeat what I just said. The mechanism by which
money is being channeled to European countries shouldn’t obscure
the fact that we have a treaty which says no monetary financing
to governments. The issue whether we could use the IMF” is
“very complex.”  “The spirit of the treaty” is one where you “can’t
channel money in a way to circumvent the treaty provisions. If
national central banks want to lend to the IMF and the IMF then
lends to  Indonesia , that’s fine. If it would use the money to”
help euro states it wouldn’t be in line with the treaty.  On the ECB and QE:  “We have a treaty, and the treaty states what our primary
mandate is, which is maintaining price stability. Also it says
no monetary financing, and I’m old enough to remember that when
this treaty was written in the early 90s, some countries were
doing what you’re suggesting now, they were financing the
government expenditures of their governments by money creation.
And the consequences were really in front of all of us. In this
sense, the treaty embodies the best tradition of the
Bundesbank.”  On confidence:  “I think that in the end what matters are facts rather
than negative psychology -- self-fulfilling. If we make
substantial progress in the establishment of this new EU
contract, if the leaders make progress, we’ll see confidence
returning. What looks like a spiral” will stop.  On risk of euro breakup:  “I don’t think its useful to speculate on breakups or
things like that. In spite of everything it seems quite far
fetched at this point of time.”  “It’s absolutely imprudent to create contingency plans
for” events that are not likely to happen.  On the EU summit:  “The ECB has a very important role, it has the role of the
guardian of stability. Here the process is political. What’s
happening in these very hours is a redesign of the fiscal
agreement. We have our own ideas, our own views, we have
collaborated to this process but the ultimate” decisions are
“in the hands of the leaders.”  “I’m very optimistic because I want to see some progress.
We shouldn’t refrain from wishing for great progress toward
common fiscal rules and rules that are controlling ex-ante
secondary legislation, budgetary legislation.”  “I wish our leaders the best and the ECB is here. Which
doesn’t mean that the ECB will respond, by the way.”  On the ECB and EFSF:  “The ECB has decided it would be ready to act as an agent
for the EFSF in its market operations. This follows a request by
the EFSF itself. The ECB will prepare for the technical
capacities to intervene in bond markets for and on behalf of the
EFSF.”  “It doesn’t involve our balance sheet because we act as an
agent.”  On bank stress tests:  “The decisions to undertake this exercise were taken at a
time when overall conditions were very different to what they’re
today. I think the EBA is aware of this. We’ll have to wait on
the EBA announcement first.”  On banks passing on ECB rate cuts to customers:  “For some credit operations, this will happen
automatically. In many countries you have mortgages that are
indexed to the ECB policy rate; for these mortgages the pass-
through is immediate. There are other sides to this problem
obviously.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  