-- 
Draghi Courts Bundesbank in Bid to Avoid Trichet’s Bond Fate

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-12-08T12:57:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/draghi-courts-bundesbank-in-bid-to-avoid-trichet-s-fate-on-bond-purchases.html
Mario Draghi  knows he can’t afford to
repeat Jean-Claude Trichet’s mistake.  A month into his term as European Central Bank president,
Draghi is being careful not to alienate Bundesbank chief Jens Weidmann, a vocal opponent of the ECB’s bond purchases. As
Europe’s sovereign debt turmoil enters what could be its
decisive days, Draghi needs to keep Germany’s central banker
onside for any expansion of the ECB’s crisis-fighting role, say
economists from  Barclays Capital  to Societe Generale SA.  “Draghi is likely to be very conscious and aware of the
Bundesbank’s perspective,” said  Julian Callow , chief European
economist at Barclays in London. “It’s going to be a hard act
for Draghi to balance strong views for dramatic action and calls
from Weidmann for a more cautious approach.”  Draghi, 64, may need all the diplomatic nous he’s accrued
in a career that began under the tutelage of  Stanley Fischer  at
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and has taken him to
 Italy ’s finance ministry, the boardrooms of Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and now the 35th floor of the ECB’s Frankfurt headquarters.
As he pushes governments toward fiscal union to secure a lasting
solution to the debt crisis, Draghi has signaled greater central
bank intervention could be the quid pro quo.  Trichet’s Lesson  “If the ECB sees governments are moving in this direction,
and this is not enough to restore market confidence in the short
term, more ECB action to provide confidence will probably
come,” said  Marco Valli , chief euro-area economist at UniCredit
Group in Milan.  Trichet learned the hard way how important it is to have
the Bundesbank’s support.  As the euro region faced the risk of splintering over the
weekend of May 8-9 last year, Trichet cajoled most of the
Governing Council into entering bond markets for the first time
to put a lid on soaring yields.  Hours later, then Bundesbank President  Axel Weber 
criticized the move, robbing it of the legitimacy only Germany,
 Europe ’s anchor of stability, can bestow.  Ireland was forced to seek a bailout six months later,
Portugal followed in April,  Greece  is negotiating a debt
haircut, and the yields on Italian and Spanish bonds last month
rose to euro-era highs of 7.4 percent and 6.7 percent
respectively, even as the ECB continued to buy them.  Lender of Last Resort  Euro-area governments have to repay more than 1.1 trillion
euros ($1.5 trillion) of long- and short-term debt in 2012, with
about 519 billion euros of Italian, French and German debt
maturing in the first half alone, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Weidmann, 43, has said the ECB can’t become a lender of
last resort for euro-area governments because that would exceed
its mandate and erode its independence. He has backing from
German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who fought off French
entreaties for the ECB to do more.  Draghi has appeared to align himself with  Germany  by
calling for a “fiscal compact” in the euro area to restore
investor confidence. He has also hinted at more ECB involvement
if governments agree to that, saying on Dec. 1 that “other
elements” could follow.  The Italian’s skills as a consensus builder, honed during
his chairmanship of the Financial Stability Board, may stand him
in good stead as the ECB contemplates further measures.  ‘Committee Man’  In his first month at the central bank, Draghi has acted as
more of a moderator during internal discussions, listening to
council members and trying to strike broad agreement rather than
outlining his own opinion and rallying supporters behind it,
according a person familiar with the matter. Where Trichet would
open a policy meeting by starting with his own position, Draghi
sums up the opinions of others first, the person said.  “What was quite evident at the end of Trichet’s term was
that he was capable of very independent action,” said  James Nixon , co-chief European economist at  Societe Generale  and a
former forecaster at the ECB. “As a personal style, Draghi has
been more of a committee man, building consensus for actions.”  Draghi’s performance was endorsed in a Dec. 5-6 Bloomberg
poll, which showed 63 percent of investors rated him favorably,
up from 36 percent in September. A third of those surveyed
backed fiscal union as the most effective remedy for the debt
crisis with only 15 percent seeking quantitative easing. Still,
almost three-quarters said the  Federal Reserve  has done a better
job in handling economic challenges than the ECB, which was
viewed the superior performer by just 13 percent.  Unanimous Support  Chairing his first council meeting on Nov. 3, the same week 
he took office, Draghi won unanimous support for an unexpected 
rate cut, the first in two years. He also played a role in last 
week’s decision by six central banks to make it easier for banks 
to borrow dollars.  Draghi was educated at the Sapienza University of Rome and
became the first Italian to secure an economics Ph.D. from MIT.
Fellow MIT alumni include Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke,  Bank of
England  Governor Mervyn King and Bank of Israel governor
Fischer, who also taught Draghi there in 1974 and 1975.  Bernanke, King and Fisher have all increased monetary
stimulus recently as a global economic slowdown threatens to
become a slump. Draghi may follow suit.  “The worst-case scenario is that Weidmann somehow
undermines him,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING
Group NV in Brussels. “If Draghi wants to go for the maximum
impact, it has to be with Weidmann.”  ECB Rift  While Weber, who began this year as the front-runner to
succeed Trichet, resigned in February, the ECB’s rift with its
German policy makers continues. When the ECB stepped into
Italian and Spanish bond markets in August, Weidmann voted
against the move and  Juergen Stark , a former Bundesbank vice
president, announced he will prematurely step down from his role
as the ECB’s chief economist at the end of the year.  ECB council member Ewald Nowotny said on Dec. 5 he’s
worried that Germany may increasingly have a problem “in
trusting the ECB,” and that “it makes sense to make policy
that doesn’t isolate the biggest economy.”  At the same time, Germany’s resistance to bond purchases
has restricted the ECB’s freedom of movement, said Paul de Grauwe, a professor at  Catholic University  of Leuven in Belgium.  By focusing solely on stabilizing markets with limited
asset buying, the ECB has given investors the impression its
program is half-hearted and not enough of a reason to hold onto
the bonds, he said. “The ECB decided to buy bonds and then did
it in a way that would fail,” said De Grauwe.  Asset Purchases  Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Berenberg Bank in
 London , estimates the ECB has bought assets totaling 3 percent
of the euro area’s gross domestic product, six times less than
the Federal Reserve has bought or pledged to.  With the 17-nation euro area facing recession, ECB policy
makers meeting today in Frankfurt returned the  benchmark
interest rate  to match a record low of 1 percent with the second
quarter-point cut in as many months, reversing the two increases
Trichet oversaw earlier this year. That decision was predicted
by 55 of 58 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Officials are also considering more measures to stimulate
bank lending as the debt crisis tightens access to credit, such
as easing collateral rules and offering longer-term loans, said
three people with knowledge of the deliberations.  Whether they go further in coming days will depend on the
outcome of a leaders’ summit in Brussels that begins today, and
whether Weidmann can be persuaded to sign up, said Schmieding.
The heads of government are gathering to craft the fifth
“comprehensive” solution in 19 months to a debt crisis that’s
left Germany and France facing the threat of losing their AAA
rating from  Standard & Poor’s .  ‘Super Mario’  “The risk for Draghi in moving without Weidmann is very,
very serious,” Schmieding said. “If he were to be portrayed in
the German press as the Italian who is risking hyperinflation to
save Italy, he would have a very serious credibility issue.”  Prior to becoming Italy’s central bank governor in 2005,
Draghi spent three years at Goldman Sachs in London, where he
rose to join the firm’s global management committee, a two-dozen
strong executive including then Chief Executive Officer and
future U.S. Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson .  Draghi joined Goldman Sachs from Italy’s finance ministry,
where he earned the nickname “Super Mario” for overseeing more
than $100 billion in state asset sales.  If anyone can steer the ECB through the debt crisis, it’s
Draghi, former French president Valery Giscard d’Estaing said in
a September interview.  “Draghi belongs to an ancient and solid culture of the
Bank of Italy,” said d’Estaing, one of the founding fathers of
the euro. “Their culture is not Mediterranean, it’s a northern
Italian culture, from Lombardia, serious, methodical, saving, so
Draghi brings the kind of culture that matches the current needs
of the ECB.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 Jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  