-- 
Draghi Acts to Expand Credit to Banks, Doesn’t Signal More ECB Bond Buying

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-12-08T17:36:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/draghi-says-ecb-to-lend-banks-more-to-avert-credit-crunch-as-key-rate-cut.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  cut  interest rates  and offered banks unlimited cash for
three years while damping speculation the ECB will buy more
 government bonds  to stem the region’s debt crisis.  Policy makers meeting in Frankfurt today reduced the
 benchmark rate  by a quarter percentage point to 1 percent,
matching a record low. They also loosened collateral rules so
that banks can borrow more from the ECB and announced two
unlimited three-year loans. The measures “should ensure
enhanced access of the banking sector to liquidity,” Draghi
said at a press conference.  Hours before European leaders meet in Brussels, Draghi kept
the onus on them to solve the two-year debt crisis by repeating
his call for a “fiscal compact” and denying he had hinted the
ECB would automatically support such an initiative with more
bond purchases.  Draghi’s comments roiled markets, with stocks and the euro
rising on the bank-lending measures before falling after he
damped expectations of more ECB bond buying. The euro sank more
than 1 percent and traded at $1.3310 at 6:30 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  “All euro-area governments urgently need to do their
utmost” to deliver fiscal sustainability, Draghi said. He
denied his Dec. 1 remark that “other elements” could follow a
push toward fiscal union was a signal the ECB could step up its
bond-market intervention, saying he was “kind of surprised” it
had been interpreted that way.  ‘Explicitly Clear’  “The headline event today was that Draghi made it
absolutely and explicitly clear that there would be no ECB bond
buying bazooka,” said  James Nixon , chief European economist at
Societe Generale SA in  London . “They’ll stay in the market but
will only buy small amounts. It’s governments who’ll have to do
the heavy lifting.”  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  declined 1.5 percent to 237.71
at the close of trading after earlier rallying as much as 1
percent. Italian and Spanish 10-year bond yields rose more than
20 basis points, climbing to 6.4 percent and 5.8 percent
respectively.  Speaking at the same time in the French port of Marseille,
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  played down investor hopes by
saying there will be no “big-bang” solution for  Europe ’s woes
at the summit, which starts at 7:30 p.m. in Brussels. The
meeting will be “one stop” along the way to ending them, she
said.  Lending Jolt  With the ECB’s focus on jolting banks into lending, Draghi
made it easier for them to borrow cash from the central bank.  Credit claims such as bank loans will become eligible as
collateral and the central bank reduced the rating threshold on
asset-backed securities.  The ECB also cut in half banks’ reserve ratio, which
determines the amount of money they have to deposit with their
national central banks every month, to 1 percent of total
assets.  Reserve requirements currently amount to around 206 billion
euros ($275 billion), so the reduction means “a significant
increase in available collateral to banks,” said  Laurent Fransolet , head of European fixed income strategy at Barclay’s
Capital in London.  Draghi said the new measures should encourage banks to lend
to companies and households.  Bank Capital  Europe’s banks will need to raise 114.7 billion euros in
fresh capital as part of measures introduced in response to the
euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis, according to documents from
the region’s banking regulator obtained by Bloomberg News.  Draghi said that policy makers currently see “substantial
downside risks to the economic outlook for the euro area” in an
“environment of high uncertainty.”  Underscoring the weaker economic outlook, the ECB slashed
its forecast for growth next year to 0.3 percent from 1.3
percent. Inflation will slow to 2 percent in 2012 and 1.5
percent in 2013 from 3 percent today, it predicted.  Draghi spoke as EU leaders meet to devise a fifth
“comprehensive” solution in 19 months to a crisis that has
left Germany and  France , the euro’s linchpins, facing the threat
of losing their AAA credit rating from  Standard & Poor’s .  IMF Plan  Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  are proposing
to amend European treaties to tighten controls on budgets.
Leaders are also mulling a plan that would channel central bank
loans through the  International Monetary Fund  to fight the debt
crisis. Draghi said this would violate the ECB’s founding treaty
if “the IMF were to use this money exclusively to buy bonds in
the euro area.”  The ECB is “saying no to almost everything,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank in London.  While offering maximum support for banks, the ECB “is
refusing to address the root cause of the euro crisis, the
collapse in global confidence in the ability of the euro zone to
save itself,” he said. “That does not bode well for the
further euro-zone decisions coming up in the next few days.”  -- With assistance from  Jeff Black  and Rainer Buergin in
Frankfurt and Kristian Siedenburg in Vienna. Editors: John Fraher, Matthew Brockett  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in Frankfurt at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Frankfurt at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  