-- 
Dubai May ‘Muddle’ Through Debt Financing Strategy Next Year, BofA Says

-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-12-08T13:47:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/dubai-may-muddle-through-debt-financing-strategy-next-year-bofa-says.html
Dubai, which was on the brink of a
default in 2009, may “muddle” through a financing strategy
next year as state-linked companies sell assets and refinance
debt, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said.  “A perilous exercise of identifying fiscal deficit
financing sources may be showing that a mix of domestic banking
sector and Abu Dhabi support helped Dubai muddle through so far,
and this (opaque) strategy could continue into 2012,” London-
based analyst Jean-Michel Saliba wrote in a report today.  Dubai’s government yesterday denied a report that it plans
to restructure debt of state-owned companies next year and said
it was ready to support them through “various options.” State-
owned Dubai Holding Commercial Operations Group LLC, Jebel Ali
Free Zone FZE and DIFC Investments LLC, which have a combined
$3.8 billion of debt maturing next year, are all facing
refinancing risks and may experience “ratings volatility” as
they move closer to the maturity dates, Moody’s Investors
Service said Dec. 6.  The emirate, the  Persian Gulf ’s trade and tourism hub, was
on the brink of a default in 2009 and is recovering after a $20
billion cash injection from the  United Arab Emirates ’ central
bank, the Abu Dhabi government and its banks. Dubai and its
state-owned companies, excluding finance companies, have
outstanding debt of $101.5 billion and may need further
financial support to meet these obligations, Moody’s said.  ‘Serious Repercussions’  “While a restructuring could help some of the weaker
companies obtain more sustainable capital structures, the impact
on the rest of the Dubai Inc. structure will make it difficult
to envisage a default without serious repercussions on the cost
of debt to the various other healthy corporates in need of
 market access ,” Bank of America said.  State-controlled companies including Dubai Holding LLC  and
Drydocks World LLC are still in talks with lenders to
restructure debt, while Dubai World reached an agreement with
creditors on about $25 billion of liabilities in March after
roiling global markets in 2009 by seeking to delay payments.  The yield on Dubai’s 6.7 percent dollar bonds due October
2015 rose six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 6.08
percent, the highest in more than a week, at 5:28 p.m. in Dubai,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Dubai’s five- year
credit default swaps were little changed at 445, according to
CMA, which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  