-- 
Dubai’s Shares Decline Before Europe Crisis Meeting; Dubai Financial Drops

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-12-08T11:53:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/dubai-s-shares-decline-before-europe-crisis-meeting-dubai-financial-drops.html
Dubai’s shares declined for the third
day this week ahead of a meeting of European leaders to discuss
how to contain the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  Dubai Financial Market PJSC (DFM) , the only Persian Gulf bourse
to sell shares to the public, fell to the lowest level since
Nov. 28. Air Arabia PJSC, the Middle East’s biggest discount
airline, lost the most since Nov. 20. The benchmark  DFM General
Index (DFMGI)  retreated 0.1 percent to 1,384.37 at the 2 p.m. close in
the emirate, trimming this week’s gain to 0.4 percent. About 40
million shares traded in Dubai today compared with a 12-month
daily average of 100 million, according to  data compiled by
Bloomberg .  European leaders will meet at a summit in Brussels today
and tomorrow to discuss efforts to halt the credit crisis amid
warnings from Standard & Poor’s that it may lower the credit
ratings of 15 euro-area nations, including Germany,  Europe ’s
largest economy. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  declined 0.5
percent at 3:39 p.m. in Dubai and the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  was
little changed after declining in the previous two days.  “All eyes are on what’s going to happen in the summit,”
said  Haissam Arabi , Dubai-based chief executive officer at
Gulfmena Investments. “We are in a standstill, wait-and-see
mode.”  Dubai Debt  Dubai’s government yesterday denied a report that it plans
to restructure debt of state-owned companies next year and said
it was ready to support them through “various options.”  The government statement was “priced in,” Arabi said,
after the Dubai Holding Commercial Operations Group LLC
annoucement the previous day. The real-estate and hospitality
company owned by Dubai’s ruler said it will repay a $500 million
bond from its  cash flow  when the notes mature in February 2012.
Dubai’s measure gained 0.2 percent yesterday.  Dubai Financial Market slipped 0.5 percent to 94.5 fils.
Air Arabia dropped 1.1 percent to 61.3 fills. There are 100 fils
to the dirham.  Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  declined less than 0.1
percent and Kuwait’s measure gained less than 0.1 percent.
Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  and Oman’s MSM30 Index rose 0.3 percent.
Bahrain’s BB All Share Index and the Bloomberg GCC 200 Index
were little changed. Saudi Arabia’s stock market was closed for
the weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  