-- 
E-Books, Credit Cards, Ahold, Cordray Nomination: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-12-08T12:45:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/e-books-credit-cards-euro-zone-cordray-nomination-compliance.html
The U.S. is probing the possibility
of anticompetitive practices in the e-book industry, Sharis
Pozen, the acting chief of the U.S. Justice Department’s
antitrust division told a House committee in  Washington 
yesterday.  European antitrust regulators are probing whether  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s pricing deals with publishers restrict competition,
according to a statement from the European Union on Dec. 6. They
are investigating arrangements with five e-book publishers and
publishers’ deals with retailers, the commission said.  The publishers are  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Livre,  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s HarperCollins,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s  Simon & Schuster ,  Pearson
Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin and Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH’s
Macmillan division.  Hachette’s e-book pricing method “not only better serves
our authors and customers, it has also helped to increase
competition and consumer choice,” said Sophie Cottrell, a
company spokeswoman, in an e-mail.  Adam Rothberg, a spokesman for Simon & Schuster, and Erin
Crum, a Harper Collins spokeswoman, said their companies are
cooperating with the Justice Department investigation.  Wendy Spiegel, a spokeswoman for Pearson  North America ,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment. Macmillan USA
officials didn’t respond immediately to an e-mail seeking
comment. Apple spokesman Steve Dowling declined to comment on
Pozen’s remarks.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said last month
that he wanted to fight “artificial restrictions imposed by
some companies to cross-border trade” and was examining the way
e-books are distributed.  Compliance Policy  U.S. Consumer Bureau Proposes Simplified Credit-Card Form  The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau announced
plans for a simplified credit-card agreement that spells out the
cost of using credit cards in easy-to-understand English.  The standardized, two-page card agreement outlines prices,
risks and terms that are shorter and more concise than
conventional agreements, augmented by an online glossary to aid
consumers on such items as billing disputes, privacy, rights,
interest-rate calculations and the consequences of late
payments.  “Credit cards can be complicated,” Raj Date, a special
adviser to the Treasury secretary, said in a statement. “With a
short, simple, easy-to-understand credit card agreement,
consumers can clearly see the terms of the deal and make
decisions that are right for them.”  The agency is seeking public comment on the  prototype  at
its website. It is testing the prototype with the Pentagon
Federal Credit Union, which has more than 1 million members and
about 350,000 cardholders.  Use of the documents would be voluntary for credit card
issuers. Major card issuers such as JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
 Discover Financial Services (DFS)  and Bank of America Corp. generally
support improved disclosure, though they have expressed concern
that standardized forms can restrict the range of financial
products, said Kenneth Clayton, chief counsel to the  American
Bankers Association .  Consumers hold about 514 million credit cards and used them
to spend about $1.9 trillion last year, with credit card debt
estimated at $700 billion, the agency said in a statement.  The agency is acting under a credit card law adopted more
than two years ago. The goal of that law was to make credit card
costs more predictable, reducing the risk of surprise on
 interest rates  or other charges.  The proposals, the first on credit cards by the consumer
bureau, follow the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and
Disclosure Act of 2009, which imposed consumer-protection rules
on issuers.  The initiative on credit cards follows similar projects,
dubbed “Know Before You Owe,” that the consumer bureau has
undertaken on mortgages and student loans.  Web-Name Expansion Could Be ‘Disaster,’ FTC Chairman Says  A plan to add hundreds of Internet domain names beyond .com
and .net may be a “disaster,” U.S. Federal Trade Commission
Chairman Jon Leibowitz told a House Judiciary subcommittee.  The program is more costly than necessary for businesses
and could facilitate fraudulent websites, Leibowitz said
yesterday in a hearing of the House Subcommittee on  Intellectual
Property , Competition and the Internet.  The domain-name system expansion, authorized by the
Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, “could be
very harmful,” Leibowitz said. “We see enormous cost to
consumers and businesses and not a lot of benefit.”  Icann, a non-profit that manages the Web’s address system
under a U.S. Commerce Department contract, approved a plan in
June to expand the number of top-level domains beyond the
commonly used .com, .net and .org in a move to spur online
innovation.  The group will start accepting applications for Web
suffixes including company and brand names, cities and words
like .book or .shopping, starting Jan. 12 for a three-month
window. Applications will cost $185,000 for each domain.  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and Coca-Cola Co.
are among more than 40 companies that last month joined with the
Association of National Advertisers to oppose the expansion,
saying it will increase costs for companies, confuse customers
and create new risks of Internet fraud.  “We appreciate the concerns raised by Chairman
Leibowitz,” Brad White, a spokesman in Washington for Marina
del Ray, California-based Icann, said in an e-mail.  “Icann has already committed to vigilantly monitor for
abuses” to the new domain program, White said. “If and when
any program abuses arise, there are mechanisms in place to
address them.”  The Commerce Department is “sensitive to the concerns
being raised by some companies” about the introduction of the
new top-level domains, Assistant Secretary of Commerce Lawrence
Strickling said in an e-mail yesterday.  FDIC Seeks Comment on Alternatives to Ratings for Debt  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. is seeking comment on
proposals for meeting a Dodd-Frank Act requirement that banks
use an alternative to credit ratings for valuing debt in their
trading books.  FDIC board members voted 3-0 at a meeting in Washington
yesterday to propose three methods for replacing ratings in a
proposal devised with the  Federal Reserve  and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency. The proposals, which would affect
how much capital a bank has to reserve against potential losses,
would change valuation methods while maintaining ratios required
under existing international rules, the FDIC said.  “The agencies have developed credit ratings replacement
alternatives that use readily available and objective data,”
acting FDIC chairman  Martin Gruenberg  said in a statement.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted last year,
called for federal agencies to find alternative measures of
creditworthiness after lawmakers faulted ratings firms such as
 Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  and  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) ’  Standard & Poor’s  unit over
grades on securitized debt before the subprime mortgage market
collapsed. The proposal approved yesterday by the FDIC would
affect only assets in bank trading books.  The rule would affect fewer than 20 banks, “a select few
of the largest institutions,” according to Bobby Bean, the
FDIC’s associate director in the division of risk management and
supervision. Those lenders have more than $1 billion in trading
assets and liabilities or more than 10 percent of their total
assets in trading liabilities, Bean said.  Hugh Carney, senior counsel at the American Bankers
Association said the rule may affect smaller banks as well.  Euro Zone Developments  EU Regulators to Release Bank Capital Shortfalls Amid Criticism  The  European Banking Authority  will publish its review of
how much capital lenders should raise to absorb losses from
euro-area bonds amid criticism from German and Italian banks on
the test methods and timing.  The results of the updated stress tests will be released at
6 p.m. central European time today, the regulator said in a
statement on its  website . The publication will coincide with the
start of a European Union summit in Brussels to tackle the
region’s sovereign-debt problems.  “The EBA risks adding more tension in a delicate moment,”
Gregorio De Felice,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ’s chief economist, said
in an interview. “ Europe  is moving in the right direction and
these measures are rowing against that tide.”  The EBA estimated in October that the region’s financial
institutions need 106 billion euros ($142 billion) to reach a
goal of holding 9 percent of so-called core Tier 1 capital by
mid-2012, after marking their sovereign debt to market prices.
European leaders are demanding banks increase capital after
financial firms agreed to accept losses on Greek  government
bonds .  For more, click here.  Merkel, Sarkozy Propose Tighter Budget Rules in EU Overhaul  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  proposed amending European treaties to tighten
rules on deficit spending and water down provisions demanding
investor losses.  In a joint letter to European Union President  Herman Van
Rompuy , the French and German leaders said they want a decision
at the EU summit starting today so that the measures can be
ready by March 2012.  The new treaty should call for “automatic consequences”
for euro-zone members with deficits over 3 percent of their
economic output. The treaty should “make clear that  Greece 
required a unique and exceptional solution” and that other
euro-area members “reaffirm their inflexible determination to
honor fully their own individual sovereign signature.”  ECB Said to Consider More Measures to Stimulate Bank Lending  The  European Central Bank  may announce a range of measures
today to stimulate bank lending, said three euro-area officials
with knowledge of policy makers’ deliberations.  Options on the table include loosening collateral criteria
so that institutions have more access to cheap ECB cash and
offering them longer-term loans to ease the flow of credit to
the economy, said the officials, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the discussions are private. Two said an
 interest rate  cut is likely, with only the size of the reduction
to be determined for the monthly decision today.  The ECB is focusing on getting banks lending again rather
than increasing its government bond purchases to fight Europe’s
debt crisis. The central bank’s insistence that governments take
measures to restore investor confidence appears to have paid
dividends, with Italian and Spanish yields plunging after
Germany and  France  agreed to move the 17-nation euro area toward
a fiscal union, a stance they reiterated yesterday.  Today’s meeting is the ECB’s last scheduled opportunity to
take policy action this year. It will be accompanied by
publication of the central bank’s latest projections, including
a 2013 inflation forecast that may justify further monetary
stimulus.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Merrill Lynch Fined $350,000 Over Cotton Trading Limits  Merrill Lynch Commodities Inc.  agreed to pay a $350,000
fine to settle charges that it exceeded speculative position
limits in cotton futures, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission said.  The violations occurred from Jan. 31 to Feb. 3, the CFTC
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. Merrill’s net short
positions of 5,502 contracts on Jan. 31 and 6,059 on Feb. 1
surpassed the 5,000-contract limit for all months, the CFTC
said. A net short position in March 2011 futures was 227 above
the 3,500-contract maximum for any single month.  Cotton futures on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  rose 4.3
percent during the four-day period.  “We’re pleased to resolve this matter,” said  Bill
Halldin , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , which purchased Merrill Lynch & Co. in 2009.
“This was unintentional, and to prevent a recurrence in the
future we have strengthened our position-limit monitoring
system,” Halldin said in a telephone interview.  Ex-Marvell Accountant Ng Pleads Guilty in Insider Probe  Stanley Ng, a former  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) 
accountant, pleaded guilty to his role in an  insider-trading 
scheme involving so-called expert networking firms.  Ng yesterday admitted passing information about Marvell’s
earnings in 2007 and 2008 to two members of an “investment
club” that prosecutors said was set up to trade illegal stock
tips. The government said Ng was recruited into the group by
Winifred Jiau, a former consultant with expert-networking firm
Primary Global Research LLC who was convicted in June.  “I provided material, nonpublic information to Winifred
Jiau and Sonny Nguyen about Marvell’s quarterly financial
results before those results were made public,” Ng told U.S.
District Judge Jed S. Rakoff in  Manhattan . “In exchange I
received similar stock tips from my co-conspirators.”  Ng pleaded guilty to a single count of conspiracy to commit
 securities fraud  and  wire fraud , punishable by as much as five
years in prison, according to Rakoff. A plea agreement between
Ng and the government states that federal sentencing guidelines
call for him to get six months to one year, Rakoff said.  The case is U.S. v. Ng, 11-02096, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  IBM Said to Settle European Union Antitrust Probe Next Week  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  will reach a
settlement with European Union antitrust regulators next week to
end a probe into mainframe software, according to two people
familiar with the matter.  The European Commission intends to accept an offer made by
IBM in September to resolve a dispute over anti-competitive
behavior that may have blocked rival mainframe software makers,
said the people who couldn’t be identified because the talks are
private.  Regulators have sought comments from rivals and customers
on IBM’s commitments to ensure the availability of certain spare
parts and technical information. The Brussels-based regulator
 closed a separate probe  over IBM’s mainframe computers after
three competitors dropped complaints.  The commission in 2010 opened investigations into Armonk,
New York-based IBM over possible anti-competitive behavior that
may have blocked competitors in mainframe software and
maintenance contracts by “restricting or delaying access to
spare parts.”  Joe Hanley, a spokesman for IBM in  London , declined to
comment. Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the commission, didn’t
immediately respond to a call and e-mail seeking comment.  Reuters first reported the settlement.  Olympus Vows to Probe 70 Executives as Another Director Quits  Olympus Corp . President Shuichi Takayama acknowledged
 Michael Woodford , the chief executive officer he helped fire,
for exposing a cover-up of losses at the camera maker and
announced a probe of about 70 executives that may have been
involved.  Committees set up by the company will report next month on
current and former executives as well as outside auditors,
Takayama said. A separate group will advise on revamping
management, and shareholders will vote on a new board at a
meeting in late February at the earliest, Takayama told
reporters in  Tokyo  yesterday.  Takayama is struggling to regain investor trust in Olympus
after admitting that the company lied to investors and auditors
about $1.5 billion of losses and as a fourth director quit over
the scandal. Shareholders may vote to reinstate Woodford, who
was dismissed Oct. 14 by a unanimous board vote as Olympus’s
first foreign CEO after he challenged the company’s accounting,
Takayama said.  The company may press criminal charges against those
involved in wrongdoing, Takayama said. The company would also
decide on whether to take action against auditors at KPMG LLP
and Ernst & Young LLP’s Japanese affiliates by Jan. 17, Takayama
said.  For more, click here.  P&G, Colgate Fined by France in $484 Million Detergent Cartel  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ,  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  and  Henkel KGaA (HEN3) 
were fined 361.3 million euros ($464 million) by French
antitrust regulators for fixing the price of laundry soap.  P&G was fined 233.6 million euros and Colgate was fined
35.4 million euros for colluding with others to set prices for
detergent from 1997-2004, the French regulator said in a
statement on its website. Henkel, the German maker of Persil,
was fined 92.3 million euros.  Unilever  wasn’t fined because it
was the first company to supply evidence to the French
regulators.  The fine is the largest imposed by the French competition
authority this year in light of “the particular seriousness”
and the “undoubted” harm to the economy,  the regulator said
today . It is the third-biggest fine total in the agency’s
history, behind 534 million euros in fines against mobile-phone
operators in 2005 and last year’s 384.9 million-euro package of
fines for banks over check-processing fees.  The French directors for the manufacturers, known by code
names like Hugues, Pierre, Louis and Christian, met as many as
four times a year at Paris-area hotels and restaurants to agree
on the prices and promotions they would offer retailers, the
regulator said today.  P&G and Colgate weren’t immediately available for comment.
Henkel will appeal the ruling and said it cooperated with the
French investigation and the facts of the case were covered by
the European Union decision in April, according to a statement
today. Henkel said the fine will have no impact on its financial
targets for 2012 or on this year’s guidance.  Antitrust agencies across Europe have been investigating
cosmetics and detergent manufacturers over deals to fix or
increase prices. Unilever and P&G agreed in April to pay 315.2
million euros in fines to settle a European Union probe over an
agreement not to reduce prices when they reduced the size of
packaging for laundry detergent. In that case, Henkel was the
first to come forward and had its fine waived.  Ex-Ahold Official Sentenced to 46 Months in Prison for Fraud  The ex-marketing chief of  Koninklijke Ahold NV (AH) ’s former
U.S. Foodservice unit, Mark Kaiser, was sentenced to three years
and 10 months in prison for securities fraud.  “The details are of serious fraud involving many different
aspects and activities involving hundreds of millions of
dollars,” U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa said in court
yesterday in Manhattan before imposing the sentence. “I really
feel that I must impose a sentence which gives due regard for
the extent of that criminal conduct.”  Kaiser pleaded guilty in August to one count of conspiracy
to commit securities fraud in connection with a scheme to
inflate U.S. Foodservice’s financial results by about $800
million from 2000 to 2003 by booking promotional rebates as
income. The higher profit earned Kaiser and others “substantial
year-end bonuses,” the prosecutors said.  The federal sentencing guidelines in his plea agreement
called for prison time from 46 months to 57 months. Dan Brown,
Kaiser’s lawyer, asked the judge to issue a probationary
sentence.  “I hope you will agree the past bad decisions that bring
me before you today are in my past,” Kaiser told the judge
yesterday.  Kaiser was convicted in 2006. After that trial, Griesa
sentenced him to seven years in prison.  In 2010, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York threw out
his conviction and ordered a new trial because the lower-court
judge had allowed some improper evidence to come into the case.
Kaiser entered his plea on Aug. 15.  The case is U.S. v. Kaiser, 04-cr-00733, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Congress  Cordray Nomination Gets White House Push Before Senate Vote  The Obama administration pressed the Senate for
confirmation of  Richard Cordray  to head the new Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau as Republicans said they had enough
votes to block the nomination.  Republicans had the chance to raise concerns when the law
creating the bureau was being written and “the Senate should
get on” with the task of confirming Cordray, Deputy Treasury
Secretary Neal Wolin said at the White House briefing.  Today’s vote on President Barack Obama’s nomination of
Cordray is a top priority for the administration. The consumer
bureau “without its full authorities is hamstrung in its
ability to help level the playing field between small banks and
nonbank financial service providers,” the White House said in a
statement yesterday.  Obama has touted the standalone bureau, which would oversee
and regulate consumer financial products, as one of the
hallmarks of last year’s Dodd-Frank overhaul of Washington’s
rules for  Wall Street .  House and Senate Republicans say the agency wouldn’t have
enough accountability and have pushed for legislative changes
that would place the bureau under the congressional
appropriations process and replace the director position with a
five-member board. Senate Republicans have vowed to block any
nominee without the structural changes.  Congressional Insider-Trading Ban Gains Bipartisan Support  Bipartisan support is growing in the  U.S. Congress  for new
rules banning insider trading by lawmakers amid concerns about
waning trust among the public.  The number of co-sponsors for a measure explicitly banning
such trading has grown from nine last month to 171 “and
counting,” Representative Louise Slaughter, a New York
Democrat, told the House Financial Services Committee Dec. 6.
She first introduced similar legislation five years ago and
never garnered more than 14 co-sponsors.  The issue took on new urgency after the CBS News program
“60 Minutes” reported last month that members of Congress
bought stock in companies during debates on legislation that
might affect the businesses. None of the questioned investments
was illegal, the report said.  “This is about restoring faith,” said Representative Tim
Walz, a Minnesota Democrat, who is sponsoring the legislation
Slaughter supports. “If you think 9 percent approval rating is
bad, don’t do anything, drag it out and watch what happens,” he
said, referring to polling on Americans’ approval of Congress.  There is a public perception that lawmakers are benefiting
from nonpublic information whether they are or not, he said.  The chairman of the House Financial Services Committee,
Representative  Spencer Bachus , an Alabama Republican, said his
panel would vote on legislation next week. A Senate committee
also aims to vote on a similar bill before the end of the year.  For more, click here.  In the Courts  MF Global Judge Tells Trustee to Disclose More JPMorgan Work  MF Global Inc.  brokerage trustee James Giddens must
disclose more details of his work for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP before a judge determines whether he
can handle the case disinterestedly.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in a court order
yesterday told the trustee to say whether PwC or JPMorgan, agent
for a $300 million loan to MF Global’s parent, or any of the
company’s other lenders are currently clients of Giddens’s law
firm,  Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP , and if so, the fees billed or
collected.  Glenn, in Manhattan, also wants to know whether any of the
law firm’s other current clients are creditors of the brokerage
and how much they have paid in fees. In addition, he asked
whether JPMorgan was a creditor of the brokerage, and whether
Giddens could sue the bank if necessary. The information must be
in the judge’s hands by 5 p.m. on Dec. 12, Glenn said.  “The status of an entity as a current client (as opposed
to a former client) can make an important difference in
evaluating conflicts and disinterestedness,” the judge said in
the order.  Glenn directed Giddens to disclose his business ties to New
York-based JPMorgan after two brokerage customers said the
trustee’s links to the parent company’s lender might influence
his treatment of the brokerage’s customers. Giddens’s initial
disclosure failed to give details of his firm’s current work for
JPMorgan, the judge said.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Raj Rajaratnam Appeals Record $92.8 Million SEC Penalty  Raj Rajaratnam, the former hedge fund manager serving 11
years in prison for insider trading, appealed the record $92.8
million penalty imposed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission in its civil case against him.  Rajaratnam notified a federal court in Manhattan yesterday
that he is asking a federal appeals court to review the decision
imposing the fine, which was entered by U.S. District Judge Jed
Rakoff on Nov. 8.  Rajaratnam, 54, had argued that he shouldn’t have to pay a
civil penalty in the SEC case because the judge in the criminal
case ordered him to pay a $10 million fine and forfeit $53.8
million.  A co-founder of Galleon Group LLC, Rajaratnam reported to
Federal Medical Center Devens in Ayer,  Massachusetts , on Dec. 5
to begin his prison sentence. He was convicted by a federal jury
in May of 14 counts of conspiracy and securities fraud for
trading on inside information.  The SEC penalty is the largest ever assessed against a
person in an insider trading case,  Robert Khuzami , the SEC’s
director of enforcement, has said.  The case is SEC v. Rajaratnam, 09-cv-8811, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interclick Investors File Settlement Plan Over Yahoo Buyout  Investors in  Interclick Inc. (ICLK) , a provider of marketing
advice based on consumers’ online behavior, filed a tentative
settlement of lawsuits over a planned $270 million buyout by
 Yahoo!  Inc.  Yahoo on Nov. 1 agreed to acquire New York-based Interclick
for $9 a share, a 22 percent premium at the time. Some
shareholders sued Interclick directors in Delaware Chancery
Court and state court in New York, saying the price was too low.  “As part of the settlement, all of the defendants deny all
allegations of wrongdoing,” according to a Dec. 5 report to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The parties signed a memorandum of understanding Dec. 4 to
settle the cases in exchange for “certain supplemental
disclosures” about the buyout process, according to court
papers. The accord requires approval from a Delaware judge.  “The settlement will not affect the amount of
consideration to be paid” in the deal, Yahoo told the SEC.  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale,  California , began a cash tender
offer for Interclick’s stock last month. Absent an extension,
the offer will expire Dec. 13, the buyer said in a statement.  The lead Delaware case is Whaley v. Brauser and Interclick
Inc., CA7038-VCG, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 