-- 
EagleView’s Software Measures Rooftops With Photos From the Sky

-- B y   J o h n   T o z z i
-- 
2011-12-08T20:52:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/eagleview-s-software-measures-rooftops-with-photos-from-the-sky.html
Roofers once had to spend hours with
ladders and tape measures to figure out the size of a job. Now
they can get the precise dimensions of roofs -- the area of each
section, the pitch, the length of ridges and eaves -- without
leaving their desks.  In recent years, aerial and satellite photos have become
abundant and detailed enough to show most U.S. buildings from
several angles, and companies have emerged to turn those images
into useful renderings. “It takes a lot of time to go out and
measure a roof, so anything that will help with accuracy is a
great idea,” says James Kirby, an architect with the National
Roofing Contractors Assn.  EagleView Technologies  was just
awarded a U.S. patent on its method to derive roof measurements
from aerial photos, an accomplishment that Chief Executive
Officer Chris Barrow hopes will give the three-year-old Seattle
company an edge over competitors such as RoofWalk, Pictometry,
and Aerialogics.  EagleView patches together detailed roof renderings using aerial
photos from public sources, such as county land records, or
private databases. Its software matches up edges, colors, and
shapes to create a three-dimensional image of the roof.
EagleView’s patent, previously granted abroad, will be issued
Dec. 13, according to a notification from the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office. Barrow, 48, says the method is more precise
and less cumbersome for roofers and insurance claims adjusters
than the old-fashioned way. “It’s very difficult to get an
accurate measurement with a tape measure,” he says. “Five
[insurance] adjusters will give five different measurements.”  Barrow says EagleView, which has 200 employees, counts most of
the 25 largest U.S. insurance carriers as customers, and almost
20,000 contracting businesses have used the service. That’s
about one-fifth of the roofing contractor market, according to
an estimate by market researcher IbisWorld. Barrow says
EagleView is profitable on revenue of about $40 million this
year and expects to double that in 2012, as his sales team
reaches more roofers and insurers.  Creating a Report  When a client puts an address into EagleView’s website, the
company pulls existing aerial photos of that property. The
software uses them to generate a model of the roof surface,
extrapolating measurements and slopes from images taken at
different angles. Then a technician reviews the renderings and
photos and e-mails the customer a report. The reports generally
take one day and cost $45, on average, though simple homes can
be done for $20 and complex roofs or commercial properties can
cost $80 or more.  The idea for EagleView came to software engineer Chris Pershing
when his brother-in-law, roofer Dave Carlson, described how
tricky it is to measure a roof by hand. Pershing, who had worked
at  Microsoft (MSFT)  and other software companies, began trying
to write a program to create 3D models from photographs,
starting with a birdhouse on his kitchen table. They started the
company early in 2008 and brought on Barrow, a veteran tech
executive, a few months later to be CEO. They’ve since raised
nearly $8 million from angel investors.  The technology has helped reduce disputes between roofers, who
have an incentive to high-ball roof dimensions to inflate
estimates, and insurers, who have an interest in doing the
opposite. “The size of the roof and the total number of squares
is always a point of contention,” says Corry Novosel, director
of property claims at Westfield Insurance in Westfield Center,
 Ohio . (A “square” refers to 100 square feet of roof surface.)  Avoiding Ladders  Westfield uses EagleView mainly after big storms, tornadoes, or
other catastrophic events that leave lots of roofs torn up and
many insurance claims to be processed. Novosel says his
adjusters can verify eight claims a day using the automated
measurements, compared with five when they measure by hand. Many
times, they don’t even need to get on a ladder, if damage is
visible from the ground. That reduces the risk that adjusters
will get injured, a constant concern, Novosel notes, for people
who clamber onto rooftops every day.  Joe Graham, a 28-year-old sales rep and estimator at Collis
Roofing in Longwood, Fla., started using EagleView reports
earlier this year for sales calls and estimates for people
getting new roofs. He says he continued to measure by hand for
several weeks, because he didn’t trust the software. Now, Graham
agrees that EagleView reports cut down on arguments with
insurers, because “most insurance carriers at this point treat
it as gospel.” In the past, when he came up with a different
number than an insurance adjuster, “I’d have to spend hours out
there teaching them how to measure a roof,” he says.  While he still has to climb up and inspect a roof to make an
estimate, Graham says the EagleView measurements let him spend
more time talking to customers and less time on top of their
houses. It also makes his job easier. “It’s great in the
summertime in  Florida ,” he says, “if you can save 15 minutes on
a roof.”  To contact the reporter on this story: John Tozzi at
 jtozzi2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  