-- 
Eastern U.S., New York, May Warmer Next Week, Forecasts Say

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-12-08T13:45:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/eastern-u-s-new-york-may-warmer-next-week-forecasts-say.html
The eastern U.S. may be warmer than
normal next week, while the western part of the country gets
cooler, according to three commercial forecasters.  MDA EarthSat Weather predicts temperatures may be 3 to 14
degrees Fahrenheit (1.7 to 7.8 Celsius) above normal in the
East, with the warmest weather in the Northeast, according to
the Gaithersburg,  Maryland  company’s 6- to 10-day outlook.  The areas of the Midwest and East that use the most gas and
heating oil to warm their homes are expected to be above normal
throughout the Dec. 13 to Dec. 17 range of the forecast,
according to MDA.  Traders use long-range temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and market fluctuations. Hot or cold weather can
increase demand for heating and cooling.  Power plants  use about
30 percent of the nation’s natural gas supplies, according to
Energy Department data.  Commodity Weather Group LLC President  Matt Rogers  also
called for the eastern U.S. to be 3 to 5 degrees above normal
through the same time frame. The U.S. Northeast would probably
rise the highest above what is normal for December, said Rogers
in Bethesda, Maryland.  Weather Derivatives’ 6- to 10-day forecast, for Dec. 14 to
Dec. 18, called for the eastern U.S. to be at least 6 degrees
higher than normal.  All three forecasts predicted there would be cooler weather
in the west.  David Salmon , owner of Weather Derivatives, focused
the cold mainly in the Pacific Northwest.  Both MDA and Rogers see it as more of a widespread event,
encompassing most of the western U.S. from the Pacific Ocean to
the  Rocky Mountains .  In the 11- to 15-day outlook, Rogers and MDA split on what
they said may happen. MDA predicts the East Coast will remain
warmer than normal, while Rogers says more seasonal temperatures
may prevail.  Salmon, in Belton, Missouri, didn’t issue an 11- to 15-day
outlook.  The normal average temperature in  New York  on Dec. 17 is 38
degrees, according to MDA in Gaithersburg, Maryland. In Boston
it’s about 35, in Atlanta it’s 45, in Houston it’s 54, in
 Seattle  it’s 40 and in Burbank, California it’s 54.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  