-- 
ECB Cuts Key Rate to 1%, May Dig Into Toolbox

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-12-08T12:46:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/ecb-cuts-key-rate-to-1-may-dig-into-toolbox.html
The  European Central Bank  cut
interest rates for a second straight month and may delve even
deeper into its toolbox today to stimulate bank lending and
fight off a recession.  ECB policy makers meeting in Frankfurt lowered the
 benchmark interest rate  by a quarter percentage point to 1
percent to match a record low, as expected by 55 of 58
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . They may also loosen
collateral criteria to give banks greater access to cheap cash
and offer longer-term loans, said three euro-area officials with
knowledge of the deliberations. ECB President  Mario Draghi  holds
a press conference at 2:30 p.m.  “They will have listened to the banks and will start some
measures to alleviate some of the strains in markets,” said
 Christoph Rieger , head of fixed income strategy at Commerzbank
AG in Frankfurt. “They will also keep open the option to go
below 1 percent on rates, that’s no longer the magic floor.”  The ECB is focusing on getting banks lending again rather
than increasing its government bond purchases to fight the debt
crisis. Later today,  Europe ’s leaders will convene in Brussels
for talks to frame the fifth “comprehensive” solution in 19
months to the turmoil, which has left Germany and France facing
the threat of losing their AAA rating from  Standard & Poor’s .  Bank of England   The ECB’s insistence that governments take measures to
restore investor confidence appears to have paid dividends, with
Italian and Spanish yields plunging after Germany and  France 
agreed to move the 17-nation euro area toward a fiscal union.  The Bank of England kept the size of its asset-purchase
program unchanged at 275 billion pounds ($432 billion) today and
left its key rate at 0.5 percent.  Investors will look for signs from Draghi that the ECB is
willing to step up its bond purchases to cap government
borrowing costs if leaders agree on a concrete plan and timeline
to stamp out the crisis, said Grant Lewis, head of research at
Daiwa Capital Markets in  London .  “Even if it does, and we continue to have our doubts, a
currency that has a central bank persistently providing finance
to governments is not one that is likely to be a success in the
long term,” he said.  Draghi said on Dec. 1 that the ECB’s bond buying “can only
be limited.” If governments move toward a “fiscal compact,”
there may be room for “other elements,” he said, without
elaborating.  Leaders Meet  European Union leaders will meet for dinner at 7.30 p.m. in
Brussels for talks that will continue tomorrow.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  are proposing to amend European treaties to
tighten controls on budgets. Still,  Germany  rejects proposals to
combine the region’s current and permanent rescue funds, a
German government official told reporters in Berlin yesterday on
condition of anonymity.  The ECB must step up its asset purchases, said  Angel Gurria , secretary general of the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  “The ECB is the ultimate weapon” and “has to be part of
the solution,” he said yesterday in an interview in Durban,
 South Africa . “You are using a slingshot, where is the
bazooka?”  Draghi has indicated the ECB will address signs of a credit
squeeze, which falls squarely within its remit.  ‘Credit Tightening’  The central bank has “observed serious credit tightening”
and is “aware of the continuing difficulties for banks, due to
the stress on sovereign bonds, the tightness of funding markets
and scarcity of eligible collateral in some financial
segments,” he said on Dec. 1.  Policy makers may broaden the pool of eligible collateral
for ECB loans by loosening rules governing the use of asset-
backed securities, said officials speaking on condition of
anonymity.  The ECB is already lending banks as much money as they want
against eligible collateral for periods of up to a year. It is
likely to add two-year loans to its arsenal, two officials said.
While a three-year loan has been discussed, it is unlikely at
this stage, they said.  One official said the economic outlook has deteriorated
markedly since Draghi said on Nov. 3 that the ECB expected a
“mild recession.”  The OECD on Nov. 28 predicted euro-area growth will slow to
0.2 percent next year from 1.6 percent this year. The ECB will
today publish its latest projections, including a 2013 inflation
forecast that may justify further monetary stimulus.  Draghi said last week that the ECB’s goal is to maintain
 price stability  “in either direction,” suggesting it would act
as forcefully to prevent a significant undershooting of its 2
percent ceiling as it would to stop an overshooting.  “This applies to both the setting of official interest
rates and the implementation of non-standard measures,” he
said.  -- With assistance from Andres Martinez in Durban and Kristian
Siedenburg in Vienna. Editors: Matthew Brockett, Simone Meier  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  Frankfurt  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  