-- 
ECB May Dig Deeper Into Crisis Toolbox as Leaders Mark ‘Date With Destiny’

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-12-08T09:40:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/ecb-may-dig-deeper-into-crisis-toolbox-as-leaders-mark-date-with-destiny-.html
The  European Central Bank  may delve
deeper into its toolbox today to stimulate bank lending and
fight off a recession as Europe’s leaders gather to lay the
foundations for a fiscal union.  ECB policy makers meeting in  Frankfurt  will cut the
 benchmark interest rate  by a quarter percentage point to 1
percent, according to 54 of 58 economists in a Bloomberg News
 survey . They may also loosen collateral criteria to give banks
greater access to cheap cash and offer longer-term loans, said
three euro-area officials with knowledge of the deliberations.  Hours later, Europe’s leaders will convene in Brussels for
talks to frame the fifth “comprehensive” solution in 19 months
to a debt crisis that’s left  Germany  and France facing the
threat of losing their AAA rating from  Standard & Poor’s . The
ECB says that governments must address the cause of the turmoil
as it focuses on getting banks lending again rather than
increasing purchases of indebted nations’ bonds.  “It’s yet another date with destiny in the euro area,”
said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at  Barclays Capital 
in London. “It’s clear there won’t be the ultimate resolution,
but the proposals are going in the right direction. The markets
seem to have finally understood that in the ECB’s eyes it’s up
to governments to solve it, and it’s worth noting that it’s
doing a lot on the banking side.”  Stocks Advance  European stocks rose for the first time in three days on
speculation policy makers will reduce borrowing costs and
introduce new ways to tackle the debt crisis. The  Stoxx Europe
600 Index  advanced 0.2 percent as of 9:30 a.m. in  London . The
euro was little changed at $1.3400.  The ECB announces its rate decision at 1:45 p.m. in
Frankfurt and President  Mario Draghi  holds a press conference 45
minutes later. European Union leaders will meet for dinner at
7.30 p.m. in Brussels for talks that will continue tomorrow.  Separately, the  Bank of England  will keep the size of its
asset-purchase program unchanged at 275 billion pounds ($432
billion) and leave its key rate at 0.5 percent, according to
another survey of economists. That decision is due at noon in
London.  The ECB’s insistence that governments take measures to
restore investor confidence appears to have paid dividends, with
Italian and Spanish yields plunging after Germany and  France 
agreed to move the 17-nation euro area toward a fiscal union, a
stance they reiterated yesterday.  Joint Letter  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  are proposing to amend European treaties to
tighten controls on budgets. In a joint letter to EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy , the leaders said they want a decision by the
close of their summit tomorrow so that the measures can be ready
by March next year.  Still, Germany rejects proposals to combine the region’s
current and permanent rescue funds, a German government official
told reporters in Berlin yesterday on condition of anonymity.  The ECB must step up its bond purchases to stamp out the
crisis, said  Angel Gurria , secretary general of the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development.  “The ECB is the ultimate weapon” and “has to be part of
the solution,” he said yesterday in an interview in Durban,
 South Africa . “You are using a slingshot, where is the
bazooka?”  ‘Other Elements’  Draghi said on Dec. 1 that the ECB’s bond purchases “can
only be limited.” If governments move toward a “fiscal
compact,” there may be room for “other elements,” he said,
without elaborating.  “Markets are clearly hoping for any signs of future ECB
bond buys,” said Jens Sondergaard, senior economist at Nomura
International Plc in London. “We think they’ll be disappointed.
They won’t endorse or commit to anything before they see what
the outcome of the EU summit is.”  Draghi did indicate a willingness to address signs of a
credit squeeze, which falls squarely within the ECB’s remit.  The central bank has “observed serious credit tightening”
and is “aware of the continuing difficulties for banks, due to
the stress on sovereign bonds, the tightness of funding markets
and scarcity of eligible collateral in some financial
segments,” Draghi said.  Collateral Pool  Policy makers may broaden the pool of eligible collateral
for ECB loans by loosening rules governing the use of asset-
backed securities, said officials speaking on condition of
anonymity. They may also increase the amount of uncovered bank
bonds that can constitute a lender’s collateral portfolio from
the current 10 percent limit, they said.  The ECB is already lending banks as much money as they want
against eligible collateral for periods of up to a year. It is
likely to add two-year loans to its arsenal, two officials said.
While a three-year loan has been discussed, it is unlikely at
this stage, they said.  One official said longer-term loans might encourage banks
to lend to companies and households, and they would also help
financial institutions meet new Basel rules on holding longer-
term liquidity.  Today’s meeting is the ECB’s last scheduled opportunity to
take policy action this year. It will be accompanied by
publication of the central bank’s latest projections, including
a 2013 inflation forecast that may justify further monetary
stimulus.  Economic Outlook  Draghi said last week that the ECB’s goal is to maintain
 price stability  “in either direction,” suggesting it would act
as forcefully to prevent a significant undershooting of its 2
percent ceiling as it would to stop an overshooting.  “This applies to both the setting of official interest
rates and the implementation of non-standard measures,” Draghi
said.  One official said the economic outlook has deteriorated
markedly since Draghi said on Nov. 3 that the ECB expected a
“mild recession.”  The OECD said Nov. 28 that growing doubts about the
survival of  Europe ’s monetary union has caused global growth to
stall and represents the main risk to the world economy.  The euro area itself is already in a “mild” recession,
with the region set to register growth of 1.6 percent this year
and just 0.2 percent in 2012, the OECD said.  -- With assistance from Andres Martinez in Durban and Kristian
Siedenburg in Vienna. Editors: Matthew Brockett, Craig Stirling  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  