-- 
ECB Interest Rate Decision Press Conference (Text)

-- B y   M a r k   E v a n s
-- 
2011-12-08T14:25:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/ecb-interest-rate-decision-press-conference-text-.html
Following is the introductory
statement of  Mario Draghi  following the announcement of
the ECB interest rate decision today.  Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President and I are very pleased
to welcome you to our press conference. We will report on the
outcome of today’s meeting of the Governing Council.
Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided to lower the key ECB interest rates
by 25 basis points, following the 25 basis point decrease on
3 November 2011. Inflation is likely to stay above 2% for
several months to come, before declining to below 2%. The
intensified financial market tensions are continuing to dampen
economic activity in the euro area and the outlook remains
subject to high uncertainty and substantial downside risks.
In such an environment, cost, wage and price pressures in the
euro area should remain modest over the policy-relevant
horizon. At the same time, the underlying pace of monetary
expansion remains moderate. Overall, it is essential for
monetary policy to maintain  price stability  over the medium
term, thereby ensuring a firm anchoring of inflation
expectations in the euro area in line with our aim of
maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the
medium term. Such anchoring is a prerequisite for monetary
policy to make its contribution towards supporting economic
growth and job creation in the euro area.
In its continued efforts to support the liquidity situation
of euro area banks, and following the coordinated central bank
action on 30 November 2011 to provide liquidity to the global
financial system, the Governing Council today also decided to
adopt further non-standard measures. These measures should
ensure enhanced access of the banking sector to liquidity and
facilitate the functioning of the euro area money market. They
are expected to support the provision of credit to households
and non-financial corporations. In this context, the Governing
Council decided:
First, to conduct two longer-term refinancing operations
(LTROs) with a maturity of 36 months and the option of early
repayment after one year. The operations will be conducted as
fixed rate tender procedures with full allotment. The rate in
these operations will be fixed at the average rate of the main
refinancing operations over the life of the respective
operation. Interest will be paid when the respective operation
matures. The first operation will be allotted on 21 December
2011 and will replace the 12-month LTRO announced on 6 October
2011.
Second, to increase collateral availability by reducing the
rating threshold for certain asset-backed securities (ABS).
In addition to the ABS that are already eligible for Eurosystem
operations, ABS having a second best rating of at least “single
A” in the Eurosystem harmonised credit scale at issuance, and
at all times subsequently, and the underlying assets of which
comprise residential mortgages and loans to small and
medium-sized enterprises, will be eligible for use as
collateral in Eurosystem credit operations. Moreover,
national central banks will be allowed, as a temporary solution,
to accept as collateral additional performing credit claims
(namely bank loans) that satisfy specific eligibility criteria.
The responsibility entailed in the acceptance of such credit
claims will be borne by the national central bank authorising
their use. These measures will take effect as soon as the
relevant legal acts have been published.
Third, to reduce the reserve ratio, which is currently 2%, to
1%. This will free up collateral and support money market
activity. As a consequence of the full allotment policy applied
in the ECB’s main refinancing operations and the way banks are
using this option, the system of  reserve requirements  is not
needed to the same extent as under normal circumstances to steer
money market conditions. This measure will take effect as of
the maintenance period starting on 18 January 2012.
Fourth, to discontinue for the time being, as of the maintenance
period starting on 14 December 2011, the fine-tuning
operations carried out on the last day of each maintenance
period. This is a technical measure to support money market
activity.
A detailed press release will be published at 3.30 p.m. today
on the ECB’s website. As stated on previous occasions, all the
non-standard monetary policy measures are, by construction,
temporary in nature.
Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail, starting
with the economic analysis. Real GDP in the euro area grew by
0.2% quarter on quarter in the third quarter of 2011, unchanged
from the previous quarter. Evidence from survey data points
to weaker economic activity in the fourth quarter of this year.
A number of factors seem to be dampening the underlying growth
momentum in the euro area. They include a moderation in the
pace of global demand growth and unfavourable effects on
overall financing conditions and on confidence resulting from
ongoing tensions in euro area sovereign debt markets, as well
as the process of balance sheet adjustment in the financial
and non-financial sectors. At the same time, we expect euro
area economic activity to recover, albeit very gradually, in
the course of next year, supported by resilient global demand,
very low short-term  interest rates  and all the measures taken
to support the functioning of the financial sector.
This assessment is also reflected in the December 2011
Eurosystem staff macroeconomic projections for the euro area,
which foresee annual real GDP growth in a range between 1.5%
and 1.7% in 2011, between -0.4% and 1.0% in 2012 and between
0.3% and 2.3% in 2013. Compared with the September 2011 ECB
staff macroeconomic projections, there is a narrowing of the
range of the real GDP growth projection for 2011 and a
significant downward revision of the range for 2012. These
revisions mainly reflect the impact on domestic demand of
weaker confidence and worsening financing conditions,
stemming from the heightened uncertainty related to the
sovereign debt crisis, as well as downward revisions of foreign
demand.
In the Governing Council’s assessment, substantial downside
risks to the economic outlook for the euro area exist in an
environment of high uncertainty. Downside risks notably relate
to a further intensification of the tensions in euro area
financial markets and their potential spillover to the euro
area real economy. Downside risks also relate to the global
economy, which may be weaker than expected, as well as to
protectionist pressures and the possibility of a disorderly
correction of global imbalances.
With regard to price developments, euro area annual HICP
inflation was 3.0% in November, according to Eurostat’s flash
estimate, unchanged from the two previous months. Inflation
rates have been at elevated levels since the end of last year,
mainly driven by higher energy and other commodity prices.
Looking ahead, they are likely to stay above 2% for several
months to come, before declining to below 2%. This pattern
reflects the expectation that, in an environment of weaker
growth in the euro area and globally, underlying cost, wage
and price pressures in the euro area should also remain modest.
This assessment is also reflected in the December 2011
Eurosystem staff macroeconomic projections for the euro area,
which foresee annual HICP inflation in a range between 2.6%
and 2.8% for 2011, between 1.5% and 2.5% for 2012 and between
0.8% and 2.2% for 2013. Compared with the September 2011 ECB
staff macroeconomic projections, the projection ranges for
2011 and 2012 have been revised slightly upwards. This results
from the upward impact of higher  oil prices  in euro terms, as
well as a higher contribution from indirect taxes. The upward
impact of these factors is expected to more than compensate
the downward adjustments to profit margins and wage growth that
are related to the downward revision of activity.
The Governing Council continues to view the risks to the
medium-term outlook for price developments as broadly balanced.
On the upside, the main risks relate to further increases in
indirect taxes and administered prices, owing to the need for
fiscal consolidation in the coming years. The main downside
risks relate to the impact of weaker than expected growth in
the euro area and globally.
Turning to the monetary analysis, the annual growth rate of
M3 decreased to 2.6% in October 2011, after 3.0% in September.
The annual growth rate of loans to the private sector, adjusted
for loan sales and securitisation, increased to 3.0% in October,
compared with 2.7% in September. As in the previous two months,
the monetary data for October reflect the heightened
uncertainty in financial markets.
On the counterpart side, the annual growth rates of loans to
non-financial corporations and loans to households, adjusted
for loan sales and securitisation, remained broadly unchanged
in October, at 2.3% and 2.5% respectively. The unadjusted
growth rates were lower, owing to substantial securitisation
activities in October. Overall, the figures on lending do not
suggest that the heightened financial market tensions have
significantly affected the supply of credit in the period to
October. However, given that credit supply effects can
manifest themselves with lags, close scrutiny of credit
developments is warranted in the period ahead.
Taking the appropriate medium-term perspective and looking
through short-term volatility, overall, the underlying pace
of monetary expansion remains moderate.
The soundness of bank balance sheets will be a key factor in
reducing potential negative feedback loop effects related to
tensions in financial markets, thereby facilitating an
appropriate provision of credit to the economy over time. The
agreement of the European Council of 26 October to proceed with
the increase in the capital position of banks to 9% of core
Tier 1 by the end of June 2012 should improve the euro area
banking sector’s resilience over the medium term. In this
respect, it is essential that national supervisors ensure that
the implementation of banks’ recapitalisation plans does not
result in developments that are detrimental to the financing
of economic activity in the euro area.
To sum up, inflation is likely to stay above 2% for several
months to come, before declining to below 2%. Intensified
financial market tensions are continuing to dampen economic
activity in the euro area and the outlook remains subject to
high uncertainty and substantial downside risks. In such an
environment, price, cost and wage pressures in the euro area
should remain modest over the policy-relevant horizon. A
cross-check with the signals from the monetary analysis
confirms this picture, with the underlying pace of monetary
expansion remaining moderate.
Turning to fiscal policies, all euro area governments urgently
need to do their utmost to support fiscal sustainability in
the euro area as a whole. A new fiscal compact, comprising a
fundamental restatement of the fiscal rules together with the
fiscal commitments that euro area governments have made, is
the most important precondition for restoring the normal
functioning of financial markets. Policy-makers need to
correct excessive deficits and move to balanced budgets in the
coming years by specifying and implementing the necessary
adjustment measures. This will support public confidence in
the soundness of policy actions and thus strengthen overall
economic sentiment.
To accompany fiscal consolidation, the Governing Council has
repeatedly called for bold and ambitious structural reforms.
Going hand in hand, fiscal consolidation and structural
reforms would strengthen confidence, growth prospects and  job
creation . Key reforms should be immediately carried out to help
the euro area countries to improve competitiveness, increase
the flexibility of their economies and enhance their
longer-term growth potential. Labour market reforms should
focus on removing rigidities and enhancing wage flexibility.
Product market reforms should focus on fully opening up markets
to increased competition.  SOURCE: ECB  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Evans  in London at 
 mevans8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  