-- 
Education Management Should Face Recruitment Aid Lawsuit, U.S. Says

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-12-08T15:33:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/education-management-should-face-recruitment-aid-lawsuit-u-s-says.html
Education Management Corp. (EDMC) , the
second-largest U.S. for-profit college chain, should be forced
to defend a lawsuit alleging its recruiting policies helped the
company wrongfully secure more than $11 billion in student aid,
government lawyers said in a court filing.  U.S. officials have properly outlined claims that
Pittsburgh-based Education Management created an illegal
compensation system for admission recruiters to ensure a steady
flow of students who receive government aid to pay college
expenses, Justice Department attorneys said in the filing made
public today.  “EDMC’s unlawful compensation scheme emanates from the
highest levels of the corporation and represents a conscious
effort to do exactly what” federal regulations prohibit in
terms of providing bonuses to recruiters, the government said in
the filing in federal court in Pittsburgh opposing the firm’s
request to have the case thrown out.  For-profit colleges have been under scrutiny by Congress,
state lawmakers and  attorneys general  who are investigating
sales practices and students’ debt loads. Eleven states and the
 District of Columbia  joined the U.S. as plaintiffs in the case.  Federal Law  The government, which intervened in suits filed by two EDMC
whistleblowers, contends the company systematically violated
federal law by paying recruiters based on their success in
persuading prospective students to enroll in the for-profit
school.  EDMC argued in court filings that prosecutors haven’t
properly stated claims supporting allegations that the
institution launched a company-wide campaign to defraud the
government and violate Department of Education regulations.  “EDMC’s mischaracterization of the importance of this case
and its efforts to trivialize the magnitude of its own
fraudulent conduct are staggering,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Christy Criswell Wiegand said in the filing.  “We are reviewing the governments’ responses to EDMC’s
motion to have the court dismiss this lawsuit, and we will have
an opportunity to file a reply with the court,” Bonnie Campbell, a legal adviser to the company, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Based on what we have seen, we continue to believe
the case should be dismissed.”  The case is U.S. v. Education Management Corp., 07-00461,
U.S. District Court, Western District of  Pennsylvania 
(Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 