-- 
Pimco’s El-Erian Says EU Summit a ‘Big Moment in History’

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 
2011-12-08T17:29:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/el-erian-says-ecb-waiting-for-governments-imf-to-step-up-.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
Mohamed El-Erian said the stakes have been “raised hugely” for
the euro-area summit beginning today as the focus shifts from
stabilizing periphery nations to the core of the region.  “This is big, and we will look back on this as a big
moment in history,” El-Erian, the chief executive officer of
the world’s largest manager of bond funds, said during an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “If you want to change the game tomorrow, you need to come
up with some important and credible decisions.”  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  cut  interest
rates  and offered banks unlimited cash for three years today
while steering clear of any signal the ECB will buy more bonds
to stem the region’s debt crisis. Hours before European leaders
meet in Brussels, Draghi kept the onus on them to solve the two-
year crisis by repeating his call for a “fiscal compact” and
denying he had hinted the ECB would automatically support such
an initiative with more bond purchases.  “The first decision is a vision of what the euro zone is
going to look like in three years time,” El-Erian said from
Pimco’s headquarters in  Newport Beach ,  California . “Is it going
to be the same size, or is it going to be smaller and less
imperfect?”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  presented a plan this week to rewrite the EU’s
governing treaty to allow tighter economic cooperation, raising
speculation that the composition of the monetary union may have
to be alerted.  ‘Downside Risk’  Lawmakers need to provide a “bridge,” such as a signal
that the ECB will go “all in” to support the union, as
governments implement changes, as well as addressing concerns of
slowing economic growth even as they seek to reduce debts and
deficits, El-Erian said.  “If we fall short, the downside risk to the global economy
would increase even more,” El-Erian said. “The fragility of
the banking system in  Europe  will increase, and if we fall
short, the debt cost of the periphery will increase. So there’s
a lot at stake.”  Draghi’s comments roiled markets, with stocks and the euro
rising on the bank-lending measures before falling after he
damped speculation that more bond purchases are imminent. The
euro sank more than 1 percent and traded at $1.3326 at 12:12
p.m. in  New York .  Range of Outcomes  Investors should prepare for a range of outcomes to the
crisis, from governments succeeding in keeping the euro zone in
existing form, to a smaller currency union or a “total
fragmentation of the euro zone with the 17 countries introducing
their own currency,” El-Erian said.  “That discussion about different scenarios is something
everyone should be having because there is a probability for
each of these,” he said.  Pimco’s $241 billion Total Return Fund, the world’s largest
mutual fund, has returned  3.1 percent (PTTRX)  this year, trailing 75
percent of peers. The fund has risen an average of 7.6 percent
over the past five years to beat 97 percent of rivals, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  