-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Decline to Week Low on Europe Jitters

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-12-08T21:57:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/emerging-stocks-drop-for-second-day-in-three-indian-shares-fall.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped to the
lowest level in a week as European Central Bank President Mario Draghi damped speculation that the ECB would step up purchases
of  government bonds  and as machinery orders in  Japan 
unexpectedly fell.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  retreated 1.2 percent to
947.59, the lowest since Nov. 30.  Brazil ’s  Bovespa Index (IBOV) 
retreated 2.1 percent as inflation increased faster than
forecast. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  slipped 0.9
percent in  Hong Kong  and the  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or
Sensex, plummeted 2.3 percent in Mumbai. Russia’s Micex index
climbed for the first time in three days.  ECB policy makers meeting in  Frankfurt  lowered the
 benchmark interest rate  by a quarter percentage point to 1
percent to match a record low. Draghi said he did not
necessarily signal that the ECB would step up government bond
purchases when speaking before lawmakers in Brussels last week.
The European Union is the biggest trading partner of countries
including  India  and South Africa.  “Investors are closely watching the crisis in  Europe 
before deciding whether to pour more money into the equities of
emerging markets,” said Jotika Savanananda, the president of
Bangkok-based SCB Asset Management Co., which manages about $18
billion of assets. “They are ready to move their investments
out of those risky assets if the situation is worsening.”  Brussels Summit  MSCI’s emerging-markets index has slid 18 percent this
year, compared with the 8.2 percent decline in the MSCI World
Index of developed markets, amid concerns of faltering growth in
the U.S., Europe and  China. (MXCN)  The developing-nations gauge trades
for 10.2 times estimated earnings, compared with the four-year
average of 12.2 times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Europe’s leaders are meeting in Brussels for talks to frame
the fifth “comprehensive” solution in 19 months to a debt
crisis that’s left Germany and  France  facing the threat of
losing their AAA rating from  Standard & Poor’s . The Bank of
 Korea  maintained its  benchmark rate  at 3.25 percent for a sixth
month. “Downside risks to growth are high,” the central bank
said in a statement today.  In Brazil, the  Bovespa Index  fell the most since Nov. 17 as
Europe’s debt crisis sent global stocks and commodities lower
while a report showed faster-than-forecast inflation of 0.52
percent last month.  Vale, Petrobras  Miner  Vale SA  and state-controlled oil producer  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA , the index’s heaviest-weighted companies, slumped
as crude and copper prices retreated.  Japan’s machinery orders in October decreased 6.9 percent
from a month earlier, the Cabinet Office said in  Tokyo  today, a
larger decline than predicted by all 27 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  KT Corp. (030200) , South Korea’s largest phone and Internet company,
fell 2.6 percent, the most since Nov. 30. The company will put
fourth-generation services on hold after a South Korean court
ordered the carrier to keep 2G networks, spokeswoman Kim Yoon
Jeong said by phone.  Russian  stocks  rose 0.6 percent, advancing for the first
time in three days, as  VTB Group , the country’s biggest lender,
posted a jump in profit.  South Africa’s  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) , Europe’s
largest cigarette maker, leaped 3.4 percent. The company will be
included in the Johannesburg Stock Exchange’s Top 40 index from
Dec. 19 after a quarterly review of companies’ index weightings.  Emerging Market Outlook  Emerging-market stocks will outperform those of developed
nations next year as monetary policy becomes more
“accommodative,” according to Fidelity Worldwide Investment.
Citigroup Inc. said developing shares may advance about 28
percent by the end of 2012.  “We believe that  emerging markets  will ultimately deliver
better economic and stock-market performance in 2012 than their
overly indebted developed counterparts,” Dominic Rossi,
Fidelity’s global chief investment officer for equities, said in
a report e-mailed today.  Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong dropped as a
Bloomberg poll of global investors showed 61 percent of
respondents predict  China  will face a banking crisis in the next
five years. Only 10 percent were confident China’s banks will
escape trouble, according to the quarterly poll of 1,097
investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers.  Chinese utility companies retreated before a report that’s
expected to show the nation’s industrial output expanded in
November at the weakest pace since August 2009 and inflation
slowed. China Resources Power Holdings Co. slipped 1.7 percent
to HK$13.54.  Datang International Power Generation Co. (991)  lost 2.4
percent to HK$2.44.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 412, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net .
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  