-- 
Emerging Stocks to Beat Developed Market Equities in 2012, Fidelity Says

-- B y   R i c h a r d   F r o s t   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-12-08T09:27:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/emerging-stocks-to-beat-developed-market-equities-in-2012-fidelity-says.html
Emerging-market stocks (MXEF)  will
outperform those of developed nations next year as monetary
policy becomes more “accommodative,” according to Fidelity
Worldwide Investment. Citigroup Inc. said developing shares may
advance about 28 percent by the end of 2012.  “We believe that emerging markets will ultimately deliver
better economic and stock-market performance in 2012 than their
overly indebted developed counterparts,” Dominic Rossi,
Fidelity’s global chief investment officer for equities, said in
a report e-mailed today.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has dropped 17 percent this
year, trailing the 6.3 percent loss in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
developed-country shares, as concerns over the European
sovereign-debt crisis and slowing U.S. economic growth prompted
fund managers to seek less risky investments.  Prospects for  capital appreciation  in most developed equity
markets are expected to be low, while “opportunities exist” in
emerging markets, Rossi wrote. The long-term case for emerging
markets is “intact,” the report said.  Citigroup set a 2012 year-end target of 1,225 for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index, saying developing economies should grow
5.1 percent next year, compared with 2.5 percent for the global
economy. The gauge fell 0.4 percent to 955.85 at 4:50 p.m. in
Singapore.  Policy Easing  Morgan Stanley’s  Jonathan Garner  lifted his recommendation
on emerging markets to “maximum overweight” for the first time
since October 2008, according to a report on Dec. 2. Markus Rosgen, a Citigroup strategist, said this month that Asian
stocks may surge 30 percent, while Credit Suisse Group AG’s
Sakthi Siva predicted a 10 percent gain.  “Policy is being eased in  Brazil  and China and more
countries should follow,” Citigroup analysts led by Geoffrey Dennis wrote in a report dated yesterday. “Emerging-market
equities have performed better in recent years when rates are
falling and Chinese reserve-ratio requirements are declining.”  Indonesia, Turkey and Brazil have lowered  interest rates  to
bolster domestic demand, while China cut reserve requirements
for banks. Current valuations for emerging-market stocks are
pricing in “a lot of bad news” that may not materialize, the
Citigroup analysts wrote.  Not all analysts are as positive. Deutsche Bank AG’s John- Paul Smith said emerging-market stocks will probably trail
advanced countries next year, because companies in developing
nations are producing less cash and investors are too optimistic
about the prospects for government stimulus, according to a
report on Dec. 6.  Fidelity recommended high-dividend stocks with “reliable
earnings,” Rossi said in his report, without naming specific
companies.  Citigroup upgraded  South Africa , Thailand and Peru to
“overweight,” alongside South Korea and  China , and favors
“large markets over small,” according to the report. The
analysts lifted material stocks to “overweight,” alongside
financials and consumer discretionary, while energy stocks were
raised to “neutral.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Frost in  Hong Kong  at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  