-- 
England Rugby Names Lancaster as Interim Manager for 6 Nations Tournament

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-12-08T14:35:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/england-rugby-names-lancaster-as-interim-manager-for-6-nations-tournament.html
England  named Stuart Lancaster as
interim head coach for the 6 Nations tournament, where he’ll be
assisted by Graham Rowntree and Andy Farrell.  Lancaster, head of elite player development for England’s
Rugby Football Union, will replace  Martin Johnson , who quit Nov.
16 after the World Cup in  New Zealand , the RFU said today on its
website. Rowntree is already part of England’s coaching staff,
while Farrell will come over from Premiership team Saracens.  “The World Cup was enormously disappointing but we
shouldn’t forget that England won 10 out of 13 games this year
and a Six Nations title,” Lancaster, 42, said in the statement.
“We have a promising group of players to go forward with and
the challenge for Graham, Andy and myself is to get the best out
of them.”  Lancaster was head coach of Saxons, the country’s
development squad, and oversaw elite player development since
2008. Rowntree, 40, played 54 times for England, and was an
assistant under Johnson. Farrell, 36, took Saracens to the
Premiership title in his first year as coach last season.  England needed a new coach after Johnson’s departure after
a disappointing  World Cup . A permanent replacement will be named
by June, the RFU said last month.  England reached the quarterfinals of the tournament, one
step short of its goal, as it dealt with off-field events
involving players and staff.  Former captain Mike Tindall was dropped from the squad and
fined 25,000 pounds ($39,430) by the RFU after being recorded in
a bar with an ex-girlfriend and misleading team officials. He
was reinstated to the roster this week following an appeal.  Players Chris Ashton and  James Haskell  were also fined for
allegedly harassing a female staff member at their hotel, while
Manu Tuilagi was fined by the RFU and detained by police after
jumping off a ferry. Coaches Dave Alred and Paul Stridgeon were
suspended for one match for illegally switching balls used for
conversions in a win over  Romania .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  