-- 
Eni May Spend $50 Billion on Mozambique Gas to Supply Asia

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-12-08T15:24:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/eni-plans-50-billion-investment-in-offshore-mozambique-gas-1-.html
Eni SpA (ENI) , Italy’s biggest oil company,
plans to invest about $50 billion developing natural gas off the
coast of Mozambique and begin producing fuel there by 2018,
Chief Executive Officer Paolo Scaroni said.  “We have the impression to be in front of one of the most
generous fields we have ever seen in our history in terms of
gas,” Scaroni said today in Doha, Qatar. “With just one well,
we discovered more than 20 TCF,” or trillion cubic feet, of
gas, at the Mambo field, he said. The Rome-based producer aims
to finish exploring the deposit next year, Scaroni said.  Eni,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and  BG Group Plc (BG/)  together
with partners have found enough gas in waters off East Africa to
justify construction of at least eight LNG production trains,
according to estimates by the companies. LNG is gas chilled to a
liquid for easier transportion by ship. The producers may ship
African gas to Asia and compete with fuel from Australia, where
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and other companies plan to
invest about $250 billion in gas projects.  Eni may also transport gas from Mambo through a pipeline or
sell some of the fuel locally in the form of compressed natural
gas, Scaroni said. Eni announced the field’s discovery in
October.  “Our feeling is it would be a super-giant  gas field  and is
well-placed to supply Asia by LNG,” he said at the World
Petroleum Congress in Doha. Europe isn’t a likely destination
for any gas from Mambo, Scaroni said.  Norwegian producer Statoil ASA plans to drill a well
“early next year” at an exploration block in Tanzania where
it’s a partner with Exxon Mobil Corp., Chief Executive Officer
Helge Lund said today in an interview. Statoil also has to drill
at two exploration license areas in Mozambique before 2015.  Lund echoed Scaroni’s comments about marketing fuel
produced in East Africa, saying the “geographic location is
almost perfect for LNG” shipments to Asia.  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , a South African refiner and oil producer, is
also looking for gas in Mozambique, CEO David Constable said at
the conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  