-- 
Tokyo Electric Shares Decline After Mainichi Report on Government Takeover

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-12-08T07:49:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/tepco-shares-fall-after-mainichi-report-on-government-takeover.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  fell more
than 10 percent after the Mainichi newspaper said the company
will be taken over by the government after the Fukushima nuclear
disaster brought it close to collapse.  The government’s Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation Fund
may buy preferred shares worth at least 1 trillion yen ($12.9
billion) from the utility by next summer, the Mainichi said,
without saying where it obtained the information. The Sankei
newspaper reported the government may inject 1.5 trillion of
public funds, while  Kyodo News  reported Tepco may seek 3
trillion yen, including public funds and loans, during the four
years from April.  The company known as Tepco fell 11 percent to 244 yen in
 Tokyo . Tepco is down 88 percent since the March 11 earthquake
and tsunami wrecked its Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic plant, causing
the worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl in 1986.  “The government has only two choices to avert Tepco’s
insolvency: injecting capital or raising electricity rates,”
said Tomohiro Jikihara, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
Tokyo. “A capital injection is only a temporary option. Without
a hike in electricity prices, Tepco will keep posting losses and
eventually use up the injected capital.”  Tepco said in a statement there’s been no decision on a
possible nationalization. It’s “too early” to discuss a
government takeover, Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said
today in Tokyo.  Providing Support  The government, which agreed to provide about 900 billion
yen to support Tepco in November, is leaning toward buying
shares because it’s becoming likely liabilities will exceed its
assets, a situation that may result in the company seeking
 bankruptcy protection , the Mainichi report said. The preferred
stock will be convertible into common shares, the report said.  Officials want to keep the company running to maintain
stable power supplies, the report said. Tepco wants to remain a
private entity and isn’t planning to seek a capital injection,
President Toshio Nishizawa said on Nov. 4.  Yukio Edano, minister for trade and industry, has said a
court-led bankruptcy must be avoided as it would give
preferential claims to bondholders and other creditors, not
those directly affected by the disaster.  Tepco faces claims from as many as 1.5 million people for
damages, a government panel said yesterday. The company has
reported losses of 1.8 trillion yen and may have to pay
compensation of 4.5 trillion yen in the first two years of the
crisis, according to a government estimate.  Tepco is forecasting a loss of 600 billion yen in the year
to March 31, which may push it into negative net worth, the
Mainichi said. Most of Tepco’s management will be replaced as
part of the government’s plan, the report said.  The government has decided to increase the amount of loan
guarantees for its fund to support compensation claims to 5
trillion yen from 2 trillion yen, the Yomiuri newspaper said
today. Another 5 trillion yen has been budgeted for issuing
special bonds to the fund that can be used to raise cash for
damage claims.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  