-- 
Merrill Turns ‘Negative’ on Turkey Real Estate, Stocks Slide

-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y
-- 
2011-12-08T08:57:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/merrill-turns-negative-on-turkey-real-estate-stocks-slide-1-.html
BofA Merrill Lynch turned
“negative” on Turkish real estate, saying economic growth and
a surge in  interest rates  and inflation are not supportive of an
expansion in the industry.  Merrill cut developers  Sinpas Gayrimenkul Yatirim Ortakligi
AS (SNGYO)  and  Emlak Konut Gayrimenkul Yatirim Ortakligi AS (EKGYO)  to
“neutral,” analyst Ecem Nalbantgil said in an e-mailed report
today from London. The price estimate for Sinpas was reduced to
1.44 liras  from 2.6 liras and the estimate for Emlak to 2.7
liras from 3.2  liras.  “We are most negative on residential developers, followed
by retail,” Nalbantgil said. There will be ``downward pressure 
on prices but upward on construction costs as lighter demand 
will limit price increases while higher inflation pulls up 
costs. Watch out for a  cash flow  squeeze.”  Sinpas fell as much as 2.6 percent to 1.12 liras in
Istanbul trading. The share slid 1.7 percent at 10:51 a.m. Emlak
Konut declined 1.8 percent to 2.13 liras.  Zero Growth  Merrill has a zero percent economic growth forecast for
Turkey next year and there’s been a 500 basis points spike in
 mortgage rates , hurting demand for housing, Nalbantgil said.  In the residential market “we expect 2012 unit sales to be
40 percent lower than in 2011 on average,” she said. “Given
the 18 percent rise in mortgage rates we see affordability for
the mass market being pushed out to 2015/16.”  Sinpas and  Torunlar Gayrimenkul Yatirim Ortakligi AS (TRGYO)  are
expected to “become cash flow negative from operations,”
Nalbantgil said. “While Emlak’s business model shields it from
such problems to some extent, it could face pressure on revenue
generation.”  The price estimate for Torunlar, which Merrill rates as
“underperform,” was lowered to 4.84 liras from 7 liras, she
said.  In retail “tenants will gain bargaining power over
landlords due to the risk of vacancies as a result of the
slowdown in the economy but also because of the big increase in
supply that will come through by the end of 2013,” Nalbantgil
said.  Merrill recommended investors buy  Is Gayrimenkul Yatirim
Ortakligi AS (ISGYO) , which is focused on office space. The price
estimate for the company was cut to 1.6 liras from 2.3 liras.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Bentley in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  