-- 
Tesco U.K. Sales Drop More Than Estimated as Consumers Rein In on Economy

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-12-08T08:40:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/tesco-u-k-sales-drop-more-than-estimated-as-consumers-hold-back.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest
supermarket chain, said domestic sales declined for a fourth
straight quarter as increased joblessness and rising fuel and
food bills weighed on  consumer spending .  Revenue at U.K. stores open at least a year fell 0.9
percent, excluding fuel and value-added tax, in the fiscal third
quarter ended Nov. 26, Cheshunt, England-based Tesco said in a
statement today. That was steeper than the median estimate of a
0.7 percent decline compiled by Bloomberg from seven analysts,
and matched the second quarter’s drop.  Tesco said it’s seeing early signs of a stronger sales
performance as a result of its Big Price Drop campaign. The
retailer, which runs more than 2,700 stores in the U.K., cut the
price of 3,000 every-day items in September and widened the
program by 1,000 items on Nov. 23 to lure holiday shoppers. The
campaign added almost a percentage point to food volume in the
quarter, while reducing price inflation by more than 1 percent.  “The U.K. numbers are not yet good enough,” said  Philip Dorgan , an analyst at Panmure Gordon. “Sales cannot even be
said to be moving in the right direction yet. We believe that
Tesco will eventually get it right and there are encouraging
signs overseas.” Dorgan has a “buy” rating on the stock.  Tesco fell 1.6 percent to 390.65 pence at 8:08 a.m. in
London trading. The stock has dropped 8.1 percent this year.  Online Revenue  “The economic headwinds aren’t making things easy for
anyone, and yet the business has performed well,” Chief
Executive Officer  Philip Clarke  said on a call to journalists. 
The U.K. food market is growing “at a slowing rate,” he said.  A decline in non-food sales eased in the quarter, when they
fell 5 percent on a same-store basis, Chief Financial Officer
Laurie McIlwee said. The improvement was helped by the Big Price
Drop campaign. Online revenue now accounts for almost 8 percent
of the retailer’s U.K. sales, excluding fuel, McIlwee said.  Tesco’s home and electronics departments are “doing
well,” buoyed by Apple Inc. iPads and Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle
reader, while sales of CDs and home-entertainment products are
“still pretty difficult,” the executive said.  In  Thailand , where 165 Tesco stores had to close because of
the worst floods in more than 70 years, 100 outlets are still
not operating, Clarke said. Most will reopen by January, he
said, adding that “things are starting to get back to normal.”  Fresh & Easy  Same-store sales growth in  Asia  slowed to 0.8 percent in
the quarter, and eased to 11.9 percent at its U.S. Fresh & Easy
unit on the same basis, from 12.4 percent in the prior quarter.
U.S. same-store revenue rose almost 30 percent in the week
around Thanksgiving “which demonstrates the business is really
gaining traction with customers,” the CEO said.  European same-store sales increased 0.9 percent, Tesco
said, an improvement on the prior quarter’s 0.1 percent gain.
Growth was driven by Poland and Slovakia and its remodeled
large-format Extra supermarkets.  Clarke said the Indian government’s reversal of a decision
to open the nation to multi-brand foreign retailing was a “lost
opportunity” and “bad for customers.” Tesco will continue a
partnership with local company Trent Ltd., he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  