-- 
Tesla Plunges After Morgan Stanley Reduces Automaker’s Price Target by 37%

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-12-08T21:08:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/tesla-plunges-after-morgan-stanley-reduces-price-target-by-37-.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  plunged after a
Morgan Stanley analyst downgraded the stock and cut his price
target by 37 percent, saying electric vehicles are “not ready
for prime time.”  Tesla fell 9.7 percent to $30.89 at the close in  New York .
The  Palo Alto , California-based company’s shares have gained 16
percent this year.  Electric vehicles may make up just 4.5 percent of the
global car market in 2025, Adam Jonas, a New York-based analyst
for Morgan Stanley, wrote today in a research note. His previous
estimate for electric-vehicle share was 8.6 percent. Jonas cut
Tesla’s rating to “underweight” from “overweight” and
reduced his price target for the shares to $44 from $70.  The change in his estimate “is entirely due to lowered
forecasts for long-term global EV penetration for the industry,
while implying Tesla’s EV market share rises slightly versus our
prior forecast,” Jonas wrote.  Elon Musk, Tesla’s chief executive officer, told Bloomberg
Television on Oct. 28 that the company is on target to begin
delivering Model S sedans next year and should earn a profit in
2013. The premium-electric Model S sedan eventually will retail
for as little as $50,000, about half the price of Tesla’s
current Roadster sports car.  “Tesla has orchestrated a near-flawless execution through
the Model S pre-production phase,” Jonas said. “We expect the
Model S to launch on time in July, but to ramp up slower than
consensus expectations as the company prioritizes delivery
quality over quantity.”  Loss Widens  Tesla’s third-quarter net loss widened to $65.1 million
from $34.9 million a year ago, according to a Nov. 2 statement
on its website. The company has lost $172.9 million through
Sept. 30 this year.  Tesla surged 17 percent on March 31, when Jonas assigned
his previous “overweight” rating.  Morgan Stanley’s valuation of Tesla is “highly sensitive”
to changes in global electric-vehicle market share, Jonas wrote.  LMC Automotive forecasts that automakers will sell 96,000
battery- electric vehicles  in 2016, grabbing 0.6 percent share of
the U.S. market, Michael Omotoso, LMC’s forecaster of hybrid and
electric powertrains, wrote in an e-mail last month.  Obama’s Goal  Combined deliveries of plug-in hybrid and battery-electric
vehicles may total 750,000 through 2015 from 2008, short of
President Barack Obama’s goal of putting 1 million electric
vehicles on U.S. roads, said Omotoso, who is based in Troy,
 Michigan .  U.S. deliveries of Nissan Motor Co.’s battery-powered Leaf
have declined three months in a row as the pace of U.S.
industrywide auto sales has accelerated. General Motors Co. said
Dec. 1 that its plug-in hybrid Chevrolet Volt will miss its 2011
target for 10,000 deliveries.  “While we’re still in the very early innings of vehicle
electrification, the commercial progress of EVs in the
marketplace has been mixed at best, and largely been
unimpressive to date,” Jonas wrote.  High  fuel prices  and “unwavering government support” will
be needed for widespread consumer adoption of electric vehicles,
he said.  “The critical nature of the sovereign credit problems
plaguing  Europe  poses a material threat to the necessary
government support for EVs which we had previously taken for
granted,” Jonas wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  