-- 
EU Battles to Save Euro as Merkel Eyes ‘Step by Step’ Solution to Crisis

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-12-08T18:54:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/eu-battles-to-save-euro-as-merkel-eyes-step-by-step-solution-to-crisis.html
European leaders battled over the
fate of the euro in last-ditch efforts to stem two years of
turmoil in financial markets and put the debt-addled continent
on a sounder economic footing.  Plans to funnel central bank loans through the
 International Monetary Fund  started to fall into place as French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  warned “there’ll be no second
chance” in the absence of a credible crisis-containment
strategy from a summit that began today in Brussels.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  of Germany, Europe’s dominant
economy, damped expectations, saying the euro’s credibility has
suffered and calling the 15th summit in 23 months part of a
“step-by-step” solution to the crisis that has cast doubt on
the currency’s survival.  European leaders began open-ended talks over dinner at 7:30
p.m., with no press briefing scheduled. They are navigating a
labyrinth of political, legal and economic constraints amid
unrelenting pressure from financial markets in a bid to craft a
fifth “comprehensive” package to stamp out the crisis that
began with the Greek government discovering an unexpected  budget
hole  in October 2009.  Spanish and Italian bonds tumbled and the Stoxx  Europe  600
Index lost 1.5 percent, reversing a 1 percent advance, as some
investors reined in expectations about the summit’s outcome.  Whether the meeting wraps up on schedule tomorrow or runs
into the weekend, the leaders are likely to leave Brussels with
much business unfinished. Planned amendments to European
treaties won’t be penned until March and may take several more
months to enshrine in law.  ‘Kind of Surprised’  In addition, the independent  European Central Bank  signaled
today that a Brussels deal to tighten budget-deficit rules for
the 17 euro governments wouldn’t prompt it to rush to the rescue
of Spain or  Italy , the two countries now seen as most
vulnerable.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said he was “kind of
surprised” by a view that took hold in markets last week that
the central bank would rapidly supplement its 207 billion-euro
 bond-buying operations  in response to a summit announcement of
steps toward a closer fiscal union. Draghi is taking part in the
summit.  “The ball is still in the politicians’ court, increasing
pressure on EU leaders to come up with longer-term solutions for
the debt crisis,” said Mohit Kumar, head of European interest-
rate strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “This won’t bode
well for periphery bonds.”  ECB War Chest  Italian 10-year bonds  slid the most in almost a month
today, pushing up yields by 44 basis points to 6.43 percent.
Bonds of other high-yielding countries also fell as investors
sought the relative safety of German debt. The yield on 10-year
bunds declined 9 basis points to 2.01 percent. The euro was down
0.7 percent on the day at $1.3318.  Still, Draghi didn’t rule out a proposal up for discussion
tonight that would channel about 150 billion euros ($200
billion) from national central banks into the IMF’s crisis-
fighting war chest. Euro-area governments expect central banks
of non-euro EU countries to chip in 50 billion euros more.  The ECB provided breathing space today, trimming its main
 interest rate  by a quarter-point to 1 percent and pledging to
offer commercial banks unlimited cash for three years to tide
them through the crisis.  Treaty Change  ECB measures sought to alleviate the impact of the debt
crisis on the banking system, now in need of 114.7 billion euros
in fresh capital, according to a European Banking Authority
announcement today. European lenders will have to raise a total
of 8 billion euros more than estimated by the EBA in October.  With  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  drawing on a combined 256
billion euros in European and IMF loans and Greece counting on
130 billion euros more, the government leaders’ focus shifted to
preventing future budgetary crackups by reinforcing a
“stability pact” that  Germany  conceived in the 1990s and
watered down in 2005.  “What’s important for me is that the euro can only win
back its credibility if we change the treaties a way that
develops toward a stability union,” Merkel said before the
summit. “That’s what at the core here for me.”  Marching in lockstep with Merkel, Sarkozy pressed for 
national balanced-budget amendments, ironclad barriers against 
excessive deficits and debt, and new powers for European 
authorities to dictate budgets in countries that overstep the 
limits. The tougher system, to be anchored in European treaties, 
would go beyond crisis-triggered rules that take effect next week.  ‘More Solidarity’  Their task has been complicated by Standard and Poor’s
decision to issue a downgrade warning for 15 euro-area
governments pending the summit outcome.  “We need more solidarity in the  euro zone  and more
discipline,” Sarkozy said at a pre-summit meeting of
conservative leaders in Marseille. Europe is in an
“extraordinarily dangerous situation.”  In a joint letter to European leaders yesterday, Merkel and
Sarkozy set a March 2012 deadline for an agreement on treaty
amendments, calling on euro states to set up their own fiscal-
enforcement system in the absence of an accord among all 27 EU
governments.  That go-it-alone threat plus a call for a financial
transaction tax set up a showdown with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , head of the biggest EU country still using its own
currency. Cameron comes to Brussels vowing to defend  London ’s
status as Europe’s premier financial market.  ‘Britain’s Interests’  “We need obviously to get that stability in the euro zone
that’s good for European countries, good for Britain as well,”
Cameron said on his way into the summit. “But also we need to
protect Britain’s interests.”  A consensus is emerging to speed the setup of a permanent
rescue fund, the 500 billion-euro European Stability Mechanism.
It is likely to go into operation in late 2012, instead of mid-
2013 as originally planned, the EU diplomat said. No decision is
likely tonight on combining it with the current rescue fund, the
440 billion-euro  European Financial Stability Facility , the
diplomat said.  In a concession by Germany, the revamped permanent fund
will follow IMF practices on imposing potential losses on
holders of bonds of debt-ridden states. Merkel agreed in
yesterday’s letter that the two writedowns imposed on Greek
bondholders this year were “unique and exceptional.”  National sensitivities pervade the negotiations, such as
 Finland ’s objection to scrapping the unanimity rule for
decisions by the fund to grant aid packages.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , on the final
leg of a three-day trip to Europe, has urged policy makers to
work with central banks to erect a “stronger firewall.”  “The leaders of Europe are moving this week to strengthen
the foundations of monetary union,” Geithner said after talks
with Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  in Milan. “These are
vital and critical but also very challenging reforms. And they
will take time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  