-- 
EU Banks Must Raise $153B of Extra Capital: EBA

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-12-09T01:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/eu-banks-must-raise-153b-of-extra-capital-eba.html
European Union banks must raise
114.7 billion euros ($152.8 billion) in fresh capital as part of
measures introduced to respond to the euro area’s sovereign-debt
crisis.  German banks need to raise an additional 13.1 billion
euros, Italian banks 15.4 billion euros, and Spanish lenders
26.2 billion euros in core tier 1 capital, the  European Banking
Authority  in London said yesterday. The capital shortfalls
include 15.3 billion euros for  Spain ’s  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and
7.97 billion euros for  Italy ’s  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   European leaders are demanding the region’s banks bolster
capital to withstand writedowns after they agreed to take losses
on Greek bonds. The EBA estimated two months ago that the
region’s financial institutions needed 106 billion euros to
increase their core Tier 1 capital to a target of 9 percent of
risk-weighted assets by mid-2012, after marking their sovereign
bonds to match market prices.  “It looks as if the banks are running just to stand
still,” said Matthew Czepliewicz, a banking analyst at  Collins
Stewart  in London. “The backdrop has worsened, therefore banks
in the interim have decided to lower their sovereign holdings
and some have raised equity, so they’ve reacted and yet the
aggregate number hasn’t changed much.”  The  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index (BEBANKS) 
fell 3.1 percent to 72.45 in London. Banks received financial
support yesterday from the European Central Bank, which coupled
an interest-rate cut with a pledge to offer unlimited cash for
three years in an effort to help banks avoid a liquidity crisis.  ‘Sovereign Risk’  “The objective of the capital exercise is to create an
exceptional and temporary capital buffer to address current
market concerns over sovereign risk and other residual credit
risk,” the EBA said in a report on its website.  European lenders will have to raise a total of 8 billion
euros more than estimated by the EBA in October. The updated
figures take into account bank’s sovereign holdings through the
end of September, rather than estimates which used data from
June.  Eight banks failed the regularly scheduled stress tests in
July with a combined capital shortfall of 2.5 billion. The EBA,
which is required to run the exercises annually, will postpone
next year’s tests until after June to allow banks to complete
this round of capital-raising, an EU official said yesterday.  Deutsche Bank, BNP  Other lenders needing to bolster their reserves include
 Deutsche Bank AG , with a shortfall of 3.2 billion euros,  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , which missed the target by 6.33
billion euros,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, with a shortfall of 1.5 billion
euros, and  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , which needs 2.1 billion euros.
 Commerzbank AG (CBK)  needs 5.3 billion euros to meet the target,
German regulator Bafin said.  France ’s Groupe BPCE, the owner of
Natixis SA, had a 3.7 billion euro shortfall, and Italy’s  Banca
Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS)  needs to raise 3.27 billion euros.  Dexia SA (DEXB) , the French-Belgian lender that’s being broken up,
said it won’t have to comply with capital rules set by the
European Banking Authority because it’s planning to “radically
shrink in size.”  The EBA said Dexia would need to raise 6.31 billion euros
to reach the capital target, a figure the company said shrank to
4.2 billion euros after the Belgian government’s takeover of
Dexia Bank Belgium SA on Oct. 20. In any event, the company’s
break-up plan means it will be exempt.  ‘Stark Reminder’  The EBA figures are a “stark reminder that banks still
have quite a bit of capital to raise in order to satisfy their
regulatory requirements,” said  Richard Reid , research director
for the International Centre for Financial Regulation.  Regulators more than doubled the amount of capital German
lenders need to raise from the original 5.2 billion-euro
estimate for the country’s banks in October.  Germany ’s Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen, known as Helaba,
said it would need 1.5 billion euros more than estimated because
state participation securities didn’t comply with the
regulator’s definition of core capital. Core Tier 1 capital is
considered high-quality, loss-absorbing capital.  Helaba blamed “technical formalities” for needing more
capital than originally estimated.  French banks will have to raise 7.3 billion euros, 1.5
billion euros less than previously estimated.  The regulator gave banks more time to submit their plans
for raising the money to national supervisors, extending the
deadline to Jan. 20, from Dec. 25.  ‘Bit of a Relief’  The EBA figures “must come as a bit of a relief as some
people had been expecting the amount of new capital required to
double,”  Neil Smith , a banking analyst at WestLB AG in
Dusseldorf, Germany, said in a telephone interview.  The EBA rejected calls to extend the June 30 deadline to
raise the final amount of capital. Italian lenders had asked for
more time to raise the money.  Regulators won’t allow banks to cut lending to companies to
meet the 9 percent capital requirement, the EBA said. Lenders
should look to bolster their reserves by cutting bonuses,
retaining earnings or issuing shares, it said.  “It’s important that banks raise their capital, but they
should do it in a way that wouldn’t imply a reduction in
lending,”  European Central Bank  President  Mario Draghi  said.
“That’s not an easy task at this point of time.”  Banks will be allowed to issue so-called contingent capital
instruments to meet the requirement if these securities satisfy
a series of conditions set by the EBA.  “Only the narrowest of actions” to run down loans and
other assets will be allowed, the EBA said.  Capital requirements 
for banks are set as ratios of their reserves compared with
assets weighted according to their riskiness.  Regulators can make an exception if a bank is transferring
part of its loan book to another company, so that overall
lending to the real economy isn’t reduced, the EBA said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net  