-- 
EU Considers Central Bank Loans Through IMF at ‘No Second Chance’ Summit

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-12-08T16:13:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/eu-considers-central-bank-loans-through-imf-at-no-second-chance-summit.html
European central banks may channel
150 billion euros ($200 billion) through the  International
Monetary Fund  to fight the debt crisis in exchange for fresh
pledges of fiscal probity from European governments at a last-
ditch summit, a European Union diplomat said.  Plans to recycle central bank funds through the IMF started
to fall into place as French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  warned
“there’ll be no second chance” for Europe in the absence of a
credible crisis-containment strategy at a summit that starts
this evening in Brussels.  Marching in lockstep with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ,
Sarkozy today pressed for ironclad barriers against excessive
deficits and debt in an overhaul that plugs holes in the
economic-management system that failed to prevent Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal  from skidding toward financial ruin.  “We need more solidarity in the euro zone and more
discipline,” Sarkozy said at a pre-summit meeting of
conservative leaders in Marseille.  Europe  is in an
“extraordinarily dangerous situation.”  European leaders are navigating a labyrinth of political
and economic constraints amid unrelenting pressure from
financial markets in an effort to craft a fifth
“comprehensive” package to stamp out the crisis that began
with the Greek government discovering an unexpected budget hole
in October 2009.  ‘Artillery and  Air Force ’  The  European Central Bank  provided breathing space today,
trimming its main  interest rate  by a quarter-point to 1 percent
and pledging to offer commercial banks unlimited cash for three
years to tide them through the crisis.  Europe’s banks will need to raise 114.7 billion euros in
fresh capital as part of measures introduced in response to the
debt crisis, the European Banking Authority said today. German
banks need 13.1 billion euros and Italian banks 15.4 billion
euros in core tier 1 capital. European lenders will have to
raise a total of 8 billion euros more than previously estimated
by the EBA in October.  “After a series of ‘final’ summits, it would be nice this
time to have a real ‘final’ summit,” Jean-Michel Six, Standard
& Poor’s chief European economist, told reporters in Paris
today. The ECB “is the only one with the firepower” needed.
“It’s the only one with artillery and an air force.”  ECB Bond Purchases  Still, ECB President  Mario Draghi  signaled no intention to
expand the bank’s 207 billion-euro bond-purchasing program and
said it would be “complex” to engineer a way for national
central banks to recycle funds through the IMF.  “One cannot channel money in a way to circumvent the
treaty provisions,” Draghi told a Frankfurt press conference.
“If the IMF were to use this money exclusively to buy bonds in
the euro area, we think it’s not compatible with the treaty.”  The euro fell after Draghi’s comments, trading at $1.3304
at 5:09 p.m. in Brussels, down 0.8 percent on the day.  Germany, Europe’s dominant economy, hasn’t taken a public
stance on the proposal to funnel central bank money through the
IMF, which would include as much as 50 billion euros from non-
euro EU countries. Merkel has insisted that the rest of Europe
first bow to tighter rules on budget deficits in order to
reassure central bankers about the euro region’s longer-term
economic health.  ‘Stronger Firewall’  EU leaders meet for a working dinner at 7:30 p.m. in
Brussels, their mission complicated by Standard and Poor’s
decision to issue a downgrade warning for 15 euro-area
governments pending the summit outcome.  Merkel and Sarkozy are pushing for EU treaty amendments
that would anchor balanced-budget rules in national
constitutions, stiffen penalties on fiscal sinners and enable
unprecedented intervention by European authorities in budget-
setting by countries that fall afoul of the rules.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , on the final
leg of a three-day trip to Europe, has urged policy makers to
work with central banks to erect a “stronger firewall.”  “The leaders of Europe are moving this week to strengthen
the foundations of monetary union,” Geithner said after talks
with Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  in Milan. “These are
vital and critical but also very challenging reforms. And they
will take time.”  In a joint letter to European leaders yesterday, Merkel and
Sarkozy set a March 2012 deadline for an agreement on EU treaty
amendments, calling on euro states to go it alone in the absence
of an accord among all 27 EU governments.  Permanent Rescue Fund  That appeal plus a call for a financial transaction tax set
up a showdown with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , head of
the biggest EU country still using its own currency. Cameron
comes to Brussels vowing to defend  London ’s status as Europe’s
premier financial market.  A consensus is emerging to speed the setup of a permanent
rescue fund, the 500 billion-euro European Stability Mechanism.
It is likely to go into operation in late 2012, instead of mid-
2013 as originally planned, the EU diplomat said.  In a concession by  Germany , the revamped permanent fund
will follow IMF practices on imposing potential losses on
holders of bonds of debt-ridden states. Merkel agreed in
yesterday’s letter that the two writedowns imposed on Greek
bondholders this year were “unique and exceptional.”  National sensitivities pervade the negotiations, such as
Finland’s objection to scrapping the unanimity rule for
decisions by the fund to grant aid  “The world is watching Europe,” European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  said in Marseille. “What I expect from
all heads of state and government is that they don’t come saying
what they cannot do, but what they will do for Europe. What the
world expects from us is not more national problems, but
European solutions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Marseille at  markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  