-- 
EU Climate Road Map Lures Support From 120 Nations at UN Meeting

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-12-08T17:56:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/eu-climate-road-map-lures-support-from-120-nations-at-un-meeting.html
The European Union said it has the
support of at least 120 nations for its “road map” proposal at
United Nations global warming talks, suggesting it may be able
to break a deadlock on how to fight  climate change .  The shift “has the potential to be a game-changer in the
sense that it’s the first time that developed and developing
nations stand together,” said Martin Lidegaard, the Danish
climate and energy minister whose nation takes over the EU’s
rotating presidency in 2012.  Lidegaard said 48 of the world’s least developed nations
along with 42 small island states and the African group of
countries have joined the 27 members of the bloc to support the
proposal.  The comments relate to the most controversial issue at the
United Nations climate talks: how to extend restrictions on
fossil fuel emissions under the Kyoto Protocol after they expire
next year. Developing nations led by China and  India  want
industrial countries make more commitments under the treaty. The
EU says it will sign up to extend Kyoto only if all nations
adopt a “road map” pointing toward the next treaty.  “The vast majority of the countries here want to see a
really credible attack on climate change,” U.K. Energy
Secretary  Chris Huhne  told reporters at the talks in Durban,
South Africa. “We are making progress, but it’s too early to
say that we’re going to be able to achieve a really good deal.”  Road Map Plan  The EU proposal would start a process that would lead to an
internationally binding agreement crafted by 2015 and enacted in
2020 at the latest. China and India have opposed the EU proposal
to date, saying industrial nations must move first on emissions.  Todd Stern, the U.S. envoy on climate, said at a press
conference today that he supported a road map plan. His office
later issued a statement clarifying the remark.  “Todd Stern said in his press conference today that the
 United States  could support a process to negotiate a new climate
accord,” said Emily Cain, a State Department spokeswoman. “He
did not say that the United States supports a legally binding
agreement as the result of that process. The EU has supported
both a process and the result being a legally binding
agreement.”  The alliance with the least developed countries, the group
of small island states and the African group shows that the EU
strategy is gaining majority of more than 120 countries out of
190 nations at the summit, Huhne said.  Legally Binding  “If we get the kind of road map that countries have called
for, the EU has called for, that the U.S. supports, for
preparing for and negotiating a future regime, whether it ends
up being legally binding or not, we don’t know yet, but we are
strongly committed to promptly starting a process to move
forward on that,” Stern told reporters at a briefing today.  The EU plan to sketch out a timeline for a global climate
treaty also gained support from  Brazil , whose Ambassador Luiz
Alberto Figueiredo said, “This is not something that will
divide us in the final hours of this conference.”  Venezuelan chief climate envoy Claudia Salerno said in an
interview today that “forces are converging for a positive
outcome” in Durban.  Today’s pact calls for a package of measures to be agreed
tomorrow that would ensure the increase in temperature does not
exceed 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) above pre-
industrial levels.  Drought and Floods  Exceeding that ceiling will cause more intense heat waves,
floods and storms, a United Nations scientific panel on climate
change has said.  The first step needed to reach that goal is the adoption by
the EU and other developed countries of post-2012 targets under
the  Kyoto Protocol , according to Lidegaard.  “The other is that in the same package we decide that
within a few years we’ll make a new common legally binding
agreement which all countries, all big emitters, will be part of
and will be legally bound by in the same way, but of course with
different levels according to their state of development,” he
said in an interview in Durban. “Thirdly, the Green Climate
Fund should be placed and should start.”  Envoys have made progress in the talks on the fund that
will channel a portion of $100 billion in aid pledged by rich
nations to developing ones by 2020, Lidegaard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Durban,  South Africa  at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net 
Alex Morales in Durban, South Africa at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  