-- 
EU Loans to IMF May Open Door to Funds From Brazil, China

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-12-09T09:03:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/eu-loans-to-imf-may-open-door-to-assistance-from-brazil-china.html
An agreement by European Union
leaders to boost the International Monetary Fund’s resources may
open the door to similar loans by nations from  South Korea  to
Brazil in a global effort to stem the European debt crisis.  European leaders meeting in Brussels agreed to make
bilateral loans to the IMF of as much as 200 billion euros ($267
billion) and bowed to European Central Bank demands for a
tightening of anti-deficit rules. The move raises the odds for
aid from Group of 20 nations, which held back last month because
they said Europe wasn’t doing enough to help itself.  “We can contribute if some conditions are met,” Sohn Byung Doo, director general of the G-20 bureau at South Korea’s
finance ministry, said in a telephone interview today. “We’re
closely watching the final outcome of the European leaders’
meeting” and will be looking for a workable plan that can
restore market confidence, he said.  Using the IMF as a conduit for aid for developed euro-
region nations may help damp any domestic criticism in poorer
emerging markets, in particular if the deal involves a greater
say for poorer countries in international economic dialogue,
analysts said. With  Europe ’s crisis hurting exports from Japan
to  Thailand , outside regions have an incentive to help stem the
damage to global markets.  Scope of Resources  Fresh money from the G-20 would enable the fund to help
euro-region nations such as Italy and  Spain , while also hold
enough in reserve for countries outside the 17-member bloc.  “I appreciate this demonstration of leadership from Europe
and I’m hopeful that others will also do their part,”  Christine Lagarde , the IMF’s managing director, said of the EU pledge
after 12 hours of talks overnight in Brussels. “These resources
will enhance the IMF’s capacity to fulfill its systemic
responsibilities in support of its global membership,” she
said.  China , which holds the world’s largest foreign-exchange
reserves, reiterated its willingness to help, while stopping
short of any indication of when it’s prepared to announce an IMF
contribution.  China has “noted that European countries have put forward
important proposals to deal with the debt crisis,” Foreign
Ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters in Beijing today. The
EU has the “wisdom and capacity to overcome” the debt crisis,
he said. “We are always confident.”  Process for Contribution  The constraint for increased Chinese credit to the IMF
isn’t in Beijing, but in setting a process for countries to make
their contributions, said Zhang Zhiwei, chief economist for
China at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong , who previously
worked at the IMF.  “It’s more about the procedure” at this point, Zhang said
in a telephone interview today. “We need a more visible
solution that can make the IMF and member countries feel
comfortable that problems can be contained if we follow this
path. I’m not quite sure we’re there yet.”  The EU contribution to the fund will be confirmed within 10
days, Lagarde told reporters today. She has indicated that the
$390 billion the IMF currently has available may not suffice to
meet loan demands should the global outlook worsen.  Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega yesterday repeated
his country’s willingness to lend to the IMF, on the condition
that European nations do the same.  Brazil ’s Take  “We will do something that will be arranged together with
China, India and  Russia ,” Mantega told reporters in Brasilia.
Mexican central bank Governor Agustin Carstens last week said
his country was also willing to help.  The aid may come with a catch: Brazil and other fast-
growing developing nations are seeking a greater voice at the
 Washington  based IMF, which was set up at the end of World War
II to help ensure stability of the global monetary system. The
fund has participated in bailouts of Portugal, Ireland and
 Greece  in the past 19 months.  The G-20 comprises the world’s leading industrial and
developing economies accounting for about 85 percent of global
gross domestic product.  Emerging markets , which are growing twice as fast as their
developed counterparts, say that their voting power at the IMF
doesn’t fully reflect their weight in the global economy. They
also want to end the tradition that has always placed a European
at the head of the institution.  Draghi on Board  In an accord hailed by ECB President  Mario Draghi , the EU
Leaders laid out a new “fiscal compact” to prevent future debt
run-ups and accelerated the startup of a planned permanent 500
billion-euro rescue fund.  U.S. stock futures briefly rose after European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi said leaders have laid out a new “fiscal
compact” to fight the debt crisis. Futures on the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent before trading little changed.  Support for increasing IMF resources as a way to aid Europe
gained momentum during the G-20 summit in Cannes last month,
with officials from the U.K.,  Australia  and Russia saying they
were ready to participate while making sure the fresh cash would
be used to help all IMF members.  Leaders failed to agree on a package as they awaited
details on Europe’s plan, saying they would ensure the IMF
“continues to have the resources” to play a role.  Second Round  Such a move would be similar to a G-20 decision in April
2009 to triple the fund’s resources as part of plan to pull the
world out of recession. At the time, the U.S. and  Japan  each
contributed $100 billion, the EU $178 billion and China $50
billion.  Any increase this year would likely occur without the U.S.,
the largest shareholder in the 187-member IMF with about 17
percent of votes, because Congress would not support it, said
 Eswar Prasad , a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in
Washington and a former IMF economist.  U.S. lawmakers including Senator  Jim DeMint , a South
Carolina Republican, and Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers,
a Republican of Washington state, have expressed opposition to
any U.S. participation in European bailouts.  U.S. officials “may not be wildly enthusiastic at this
stage, but I don’t think they would oppose a move if Europe and
a bunch of emerging markets” decide to increase IMF
contributions, Prasad said.  A Treasury Department official, speaking on condition of
anonymity last week, said the U.S. has no plans to make
bilateral loans to the IMF, saying the fund has ample resources.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 