-- 
Stocks in Europe Drop Most in Two Weeks on ECB Outlook, Bank Stress Tests

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-12-08T17:03:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/european-stock-futures-rise-amid-ecb-hope.html
European stocks  dropped the most in
two weeks as the  European Central Bank  damped speculation it
would step up purchases of  government bonds  and regulators said
lenders need to raise more capital than previously forecast.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA retreated more than
8 percent after the European Banking Authority said  Europe ’s
lenders will need to boost capital by 114.7 billion euros ($153
billion). PSA Peugeot Citroen and  Fiat SpA (F)  led a decline in auto
shares.  BioMerieux (BIM)  SA tumbled 11 percent as the maker of medical
tests said it may not meet its sales-growth target.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  slid 1.5 percent to 237.71 at
the close of trading. The gauge earlier climbed as much as 1
percent after the ECB cut its benchmark interest rate by a
quarter percentage point, offered banks as much money as they
need for three years and loosened collateral rules for
refinancing operations to ease strains in credit markets. The
measure has dropped 14 percent this year amid concern the euro-
area debt crisis will derail the region’s economic recovery.  “The market now thinks that there won’t be a solution in
the next three days, and in addition, there won’t be any
concrete action,” said John Plassard, director at Louis Capital
Markets in Geneva. “There was not even the surprise of lowering
the rates by 50 basis points, which would really have meant that
the ECB is doing everything in its power to restart lending.”  Benchmark Gauges  National benchmark indexes dropped in all of the 17 western
European markets that were open today, except Iceland. France’s
CAC 40 retreated 2.5 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100  lost 1.1
percent.  Germany ’s  DAX Index (DAX)  sank 2 percent. Austrian markets
were closed for a holiday.  The ECB cut  interest rates  by 25 basis points, or a quarter
percentage point, to 1 percent today, matching a record low. It
introduced new three-year loans for banks and loosened the
collateral criteria it imposes when lending by making credit
claims such as bank loans eligible and reducing the rating
threshold on asset-backed securities.  Stocks erased their gains as ECB President  Mario Draghi 
said he did not necessarily signal that the central bank would
step up government bond purchases when speaking before lawmakers
in Brussels last week. He said he was “kind of surprised by the
implicit meaning” that was given to his comments when he said
the ECB could follow faster fiscal union with “other
elements.”  ‘Big Bang’ Solution  Separately, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said that
there’s no “big bang” solution to the debt crisis. A European
Union summit starting today will be “one step” toward
resolution, she added.  European leaders meet at 7:30 p.m. in Brussels to hammer
out a solution to the sovereign-debt crisis, which has left
Germany and  France  facing the threat of losing their AAA credit
ratings from  Standard & Poor’s .  The  Stoxx 600  extended its decline in the final hour of
trading as documents from Europe’s banking regulator obtained by
Bloomberg News showed the region’s banks will need to raise
114.7 billion euros in fresh capital as part of measures
introduced in response to the debt crisis.  German banks need 13.1 billion euros and Italian banks 15.4
billion euros in core tier 1 capital, the European Banking
Authority said in the document. European lenders will have to
raise a total of 8 billion euros more than previously estimated
by the EBA in October.  Banks Sink  Banks declined , with Commerzbank and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
Germany’s biggest lenders, losing 9.5 percent to 1.28 euros and
4.3 percent to 28.25 euros, respectively.  Italy ’s Intesa
Sanpaolo plummeted 8.9 percent to 1.18 euros and  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA, France’s second-largest lender, retreated 4.5
percent to 19.10 euros.  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  plunged 10 percent to 4.56 euros, the
largest decline since at least 1988. The bank, one of the
biggest creditors of Italian insurer Fondiaria-Sai SpA, is
urging the company to raise as much as 600 million euros in
capital to improve ratios and strengthen finances, two people
with knowledge of the matter said.  Peugeot slumped 7.3 percent to 12.46 euros as Thierry Huon,
an analyst at Exane  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, cut the French carmaker to
“neutral” from “outperform.”  A gauge of European carmakers was the  worst performer  of
the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600, sliding 3.4 percent.
Fiat dropped 3.3 percent to 3.77 euros while  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles , sank 3.7
percent to 53.61 euros.  BioMerieux, Finmeccanica  BioMerieux tumbled 11 percent to 55.18 euros, the largest
drop since it first sold shares in 2004, after the company late
yesterday said it may miss its sales target.  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , Italy’s biggest arms company, plunged 9.4
percent to 3.02 euros after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reaffirmed
its “sell” recommendation on the shares and cut its price
estimate by 44 percent to 2.50 euros.  Banco Sabadell SA gained 4.3 percent to 2.86 euros after
agreeing to acquire stricken Spanish lender Caja de Ahorros del
Mediterraneo. Sabadell said the purchase will save it more than
300 million euros a year, increase its client base to 5 million
and boost per-share earnings.  Macquarie Group Ltd. raised the stock to “neutral” from
“underperform.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  