-- 
Euro’s Preservation Worth Costs, Nobel Laureate Sims Says

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-12-09T05:59:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/euro-preservation-worth-cost-of-rescue-nobel-laureate-sims-says.html
Nobel Economics Laureate Christopher A. Sims said  Europe  needs to preserve the euro and that the only
obstacle to a functioning currency union is better fiscal
coordination.  “It’s worth paying a price to preserve the euro,” Sims,
who is in Stockholm to attend an award ceremony for the Nobel
economics prize he won in October together with Thomas J. Sargent, said yesterday in an interview. “It needs to be a true
fiscal union. That means there should be some kind of euro-wide
tax instrument. There should be euro bonds.”  European leaders convened in Brussels last night in their
latest attempt to stem the spread of the debt crisis, which now
threatens the AAA credit ratings of the bloc’s biggest
economies. The talks yielded a show of commitment to tighter
anti-deficit rules and the addition of 200 billion euros ($267
billion) to the region’s crisis-fighting funds. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said Europe will create a “new fiscal
union” that includes a “debt brake for all euro countries.”  “Some people talk as if the cultures and the economies are
so different that it was a mistake to think of trying to unify
them,” Sims said. “The mistake was only in thinking that it
was feasible to have a monetary union without any discussion of
preparing institutions for a central fiscal authority. If you
could put those two things together, I think there would be big
advantages to Europe.”  Euro Tax  There are more advantages than disadvantages to keeping the
euro, Sims said. “There should be an active market in euro
bonds backed up by a central euro tax. As soon as you put in a
euro tax, you’ve implicitly put in fiscal transfers.”  Germany  has said that any debate on common euro-area debt
issuance could only come after tighter fiscal union has been
achieved. Focusing on common borrowing before imposing better
budget controls across the 17-member union risks taking focus
away from the bloc’s main goal, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Nov. 28.  Sims said the  European Central Bank ’s decision yesterday to
cut its benchmark  interest rate  a quarter percentage point to 1
percent was needed to support the economy.  “The euro area looks like it could be going into recession
because of all these uncertainties and in that case it makes
sense for the ECB to be trying to offset that,” he said.  ECB Role  The ECB is calling on the politicians to do more to stem
the crisis. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday that “all
euro-area governments urgently need to do their utmost” to
deliver fiscal sustainability. The ECB has resisted calls to act
as a lender of last resort, arguing such a step would compromise
its inflation mandate.  “If there is fiscal backing for it, it would be a good
idea for the ECB to act as a true lender of last resort to
identify those countries that are paying high interest rates,
mainly because of panicky behavior on the part of people who are
afraid of default,” Sims said.  Draghi yesterday offered banks unlimited cash for three
years while damping speculation the ECB will buy more  government
bonds  to stem the region’s debt crisis.  The yield difference between Italian two-year notes and
similar-maturity German bunds grew to 594 basis points, the
widest spread this week. The 10-year spread swelled to 444 basis
points from 389 on Dec. 7.  If the ECB were to “intervene and people have the idea
that this was just going to be used by the southern European
countries as an excuse not to get their public house in order
and that there is no commitment on the part of the northern
European countries to back up the ECB if it needs
recapitalization, the result would be inflation and that in
itself would endanger the euro,” Sims said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Stockholm at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  