-- 
Euro Rebound May Provide a Better Selling Level, Barclays Analyst Says

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-12-08T21:46:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/euro-rebound-may-provide-a-better-selling-level-barclays-analyst-says.html
A near-term euro rebound may provide
a more attractive level to sell the currency as it is poised to
slide in 2012 with the  European Central Bank  forecast to cut
interest rates further to combat the region’s recession,
according to Barclays Plc.  “Our highest-conviction trade is to be short the euro,”
said Jose Wynne, head of North America foreign-exchange research
at  Barclays Capital , during a news briefing in  New York  today. A
short position is a bet an asset will decline in value.  The 17-nation currency will depreciate 10 percent versus
the dollar during the next 12 months to $1.20, after rallying to
$1.35 during the next month, Wynne said. The euro will fall to
96 yen, from the current 104 level during the next year,
Barclays forecast.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  reduced the  benchmark rate  by a
quarter-percentage point to 1 percent, matching a record low and
offered banks unlimited cash for three years while damping
speculation the ECB will buy more  government bonds  to stem the
region’s debt crisis. They also loosened collateral rules so
that banks can borrow more from the ECB and announced two
unlimited three-year loans.  Euro Falls  The euro reached the lowest level this month versus the
greenback, falling 0.5 percent to $1.3345 at 4:20 p.m. New York
time.  With European leaders meeting in Brussels, Draghi repeated
his call for them to make a “fiscal compact” to solve the
regions sovereign-debt crisis. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
and French President Nicolas Sarkozy are proposing to amend
European treaties to tighten controls on budgets. Leaders are
also mulling a plan that would channel central bank loans
through the  International Monetary Fund  to fight the debt
crisis.  “If there is any positive solution this weekend, we expect
the euro to strengthen,” Wynne said. “But that will be a short-
term reaction and we will be looking for an opportunity to sell
it.”  Barclays’ economists said the euro area has already fallen
into a recession, and forecast the ECB will cut its main policy
rate to 0.5 percent and its discount rate to zero during the
first quarter. Meanwhile, U.S. economy growth will be 2.5
percent in the fourth quarter, and 2.5 percent in 2012, they
said.  “The ECB will continue to cut  interest rates  and continue
to provide liquidity,” and that will pressure the euro in 2012,
Wynne said. “We have to see economic activity stabilize before
our clients will feel comfortable with that risk” of owning the
euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  