-- 
Euro Slides After Draghi Says Didn’t Signal More Bond Purchases

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-12-08T22:50:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/euro-declines-most-in-two-weeks-versus-yen-as-ecb-reduces-benchmark-rate.html
The euro fell the most in three weeks
against the yen and slumped versus the dollar after European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said he didn’t signal
stepping up bond purchases to spur growth.  The 17-nation currency reached the lowest level this month
versus the greenback, reversing brief gains, after Draghi’s
comments damped speculation that the ECB would expand its bond-
buying role to stem the region’s debt crisis. The yen rose on
increased demand for safety as European leaders gathered in
Brussels for a two-day meeting to address the debt crisis.
Australia’s dollar fell.  “The pullback in the euro rally was a reaction to
President Draghi downplaying expectations that the ECB will act
more aggressively to support the peripheral bond markets,” said
 Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co .
in  New York . “The euro is still in a challenging position vis-
a-vis the possible policy outcomes, especially from the ECB.”  The euro weakened 0.6 percent to 103.57 yen at 5 p.m. in
New York after falling as much as 1.1 percent, the most since
Nov. 14. The single currency dropped 0.5 percent to $1.3341. The
yen was little changed at 77.64 per dollar.  Draghi said during a press conference in  Frankfurt  that he
was “kind of surprised by the implicit meaning” that was given
to his comments last week when he said the ECB could follow
faster fiscal union with “other elements.”  Draghi’s Surprise  “So the market misinterpreted the fiscal compact argument
that Draghi used at the European Parliament,” said  Jeremy Stretch , executive director of foreign-exchange strategy at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in London. The focus is back
on Europe’s two bailouts funds, the European Financial Stability
Facility and the European Stability Mechanism, “although as we
know they have limited, inadequate firepower.”  Italian and Spanish bonds declined after Draghi’s comments.
The yield on 10-year Italian bonds climbed 47 basis points, or
0.47 percentage point, to 6.46 percent and the yield on similar-
maturity Spanish debt advanced 38 basis points to 5.81 percent.  The cost of insuring against default on sovereign debt rose
the most in five months today. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western
Europe Index of credit-default swaps on 15 governments climbed
31 basis points to 363, the biggest jump since July.  The Australian dollar fell from an almost four-week high
versus the yen after the statistics bureau said the number of
people employed declined by 6,300 last month after rising by a
revised 16,800 the prior month.  Aussie Jobs  “Full-time jobs dropped a lot,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a
strategist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “This will trigger
some concerns over the jobs market in  Australia  and, of course,
the economy. The Aussie dropped.”  Australia’s currency weakened 1.3 percent to 78.93 yen
after rising to 80.52 yen on Dec. 2, the strongest since Nov. 9.
The Aussie slid 1.2 percent to $1.0167.  The yen advanced the most against the South African rand
and Mexican peso as investors sought safer assets.  Standard & Poor’s  yesterday placed the European Union’s AAA
long-term rating on “creditwatch negative” after a similar
action a day earlier on 15 of the 17 euro members. The company
said on Dec. 5 it may lower the ratings of  Germany  and other
members of the euro due to “continuing disagreements” about
how to tackle the sovereign-debt crisis.  “S&P has told  Europe  that they need to do something,
Draghi is saying that the ECB is doing what they can but they’re
not going to be rushing to fix anything, so there’s definitely
more tension being put onto the summit,” said Brian Kim, a
Stamford, Connecticut-based currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc.  Euro Debts  Euro-area governments have to repay more than 1.1 trillion
euros ($1.5 trillion) of long- and short-term debt in 2012, with
about 519 billion euros of Italian, French and German debt
maturing in the first half alone, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The ECB has bought a total of 207 billion euros of
sovereign bonds during the region’s crisis in an effort to stem
surges in bond yields.  The euro gained as much as 0.4 percent versus the dollar
earlier after the ECB offered lenders as much money as they need
for three years and loosened collateral rules at refinancing
operations to ease strains in credit markets.  The ECB cut its benchmark  interest rate  by a quarter-
percentage point to 1 percent, matching a record low, as
expected by 55 of 58 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
central bank also cut banks’ reserve ratios to 1 percent from 2
percent and will stop fine-tuning operations at the end of each
reserve maintenance period, Draghi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  