-- 
Europe’s Climate Action Criticized Over EIB Fossil-Fuel Loans

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-12-08T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/europe-s-climate-action-criticized-over-eib-fossil-fuel-loans.html
The European Union was criticized for
making 5 billion euros ($6.7 billion) of fossil-fuel loans
through its financial arm, while pushing for a carbon-dioxide
emission-cutting policy across the 27-member bloc.  The  European Investment Bank , which loaned a record 19
billion euros to climate-related projects last year, increased
its lending for fossil fuels such as coal to 5 billion euros in
2010 from 2.8 billion euros in 2007, according to a statement
today from  CEE Bankwatch Network , a Prague-based organization
that monitors international finance institutions.  The group called on the bank to halt loans to coal plants
immediately and to phase out lending for other fossil fuels or
risk locking countries, particularly new EU member-states, into
a “fossil-fuel dependent path” for decades. The EU hopes to
reduce  greenhouse gases  20 percent below 1990 levels by 2020,
pushing for the cuts at climate talks this week in  South Africa .  Fossil fuels accounted for most of the EIB’s energy loans,
or 16 billion euros, in the four-year period studied by
Bankwatch while new renewables received 13 billion euros of
lending in that time, according to the statement.  The EIB, which is the largest international, non-sovereign
lender and borrower, is aware of criticisms about fossil-fuel
lending though it hasn’t seen the latest report from Bankwatch,
said Richard Willis, a spokesman at the Luxembourg-based bank.  Production of hydrocarbons represented only 0.3 percent of
the bank’s energy lending since 2005, he said by e-mail. The
bank is the world’s biggest investor in climate action,
renewables and water, according to Willis.  It has increased lending to renewables over the same four-
year period as part of its fight against  climate change , he
said. The bank is part of the South African Renewables
Initiative  signed in Durban , host of the United Nations talks.  ‘Secret Hypocrisy’  “While the EU appears to be the world’s most progressive
actor in the global struggle against climate change, the
financial arm of the union is putting billions of euros of
public money into energy infrastructure,” said Piotr
Trzaskowski, energy coordinator at Bankwatch.  The study highlights “the secret hypocrisy” of the EU’s
climate action policy, the coordinator said.  The bank’s energy lending policy, adopted in 2007 to
prioritize climate action and  energy security , ensures a
“selective approach” to coal and lignite plants, Willis said.  The EIB approved funding for two fossil-fuel plants, the
Sostanj lignite power station in  Slovenia  and the Duisburg-
Walsum coal station in  Germany , under “old guidelines” yet no
funds have been disbursed, Willis said.  Bankwatch said the EIB should revise the  energy policy  to
rule out financing coal power stations and prioritize  energy
efficiency .  The EIB is only reviewing its transport-lending policy
currently and seeks large-scale energy efficiency projects
“continuously,” Willis said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  