-- 
Euro Declines to One-Week Low as EU Leaders Meet on Crisis; Yen Advances

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-12-09T08:35:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/euro-trades-near-one-week-low-versus-yen-as-eu-leaders-meet-on-debt-crisis.html
The euro dropped to a one-week low
against the dollar after a summit of European Union leaders
failed to forge a unanimous accord, damping prospects for a
rapid resolution to the region’s debt crisis.  The euro was poised for weekly losses versus the yen and
the greenback as French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said British
Prime Minister  David Cameron  made “unacceptable” demands
regarding treaty amendments. The yen climbed against the
Australian and New Zealand dollars as a decline in Asian stocks
dented demand for higher-yielding assets. South  Korea ’s won
weakened after the central bank said the nation’s growth is set
to slow and inflation may ease next year.  “I think we are a long way away from a resolution, and I
think the risk of disappointment over the weekend would be
fairly strong,” said  Annette Beacher , head of research at TD
Securities in  Singapore . “It’s all weighing on the currencies.
The euro and the Aussie, they are all way down.”  The euro weakened 0.1 percent to $1.3323 as of 8:29 a.m. in
London from $1.3341 yesterday and has declined 0.5 percent since
Dec. 2. It earlier fell to as low as $1.3288, the least since
Nov. 30. The 17-nation common currency slid 0.1 percent to
103.48 yen and was set for a 0.9 percent drop this week. The yen
was little changed at 77.66 per dollar.  The Australian dollar dropped 0.6 percent to 78.45 yen and
New Zealand ‘s currency slid 0.6 percent to 59.64 yen. The MSCI
Asia Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of stocks fell 2.1 percent, declining for a
second day.  IMF Funds  Sarkozy said EU talks were “extremely difficult” and the
U.K. made a treaty of all 27 nations impossible.  Leaders agreed to channel as much as 200 billion euros
($266 billion) to the  International Monetary Fund  and bowed to
European Central Bank demands for a tightening of anti-deficit
rules. They accelerated the startup of a planned 500 billion-
euro rescue fund and scaled back bondholder loss-sharing
provisions.  The euro pared declines after ECB President  Mario Draghi 
called the decisions “a very good outcome for euro-area
members,” after 12 hours of talks in Brussels.  Germany and  France  risk losing their AAA credit ratings in
a review of 15 euro nations,  Standard & Poor’s  said Dec. 5, as
the region struggles to end its sovereign debt crisis.  “It certainly does look to form the basis of a good fiscal
compact and more discipline in the area,” said  Sue Trinh , a
senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in  Hong Kong .
An affirmation of the sovereign ratings by S&P “would be
positive for the euro and could pave the path for a short
squeeze toward $1.35.”  Weaker Euro Forecast  Analysts have lowered forecasts for the euro since the end
of September as policy makers struggled to resolve the region’s
debt crisis. The median forecast of 50 estimates for the euro-
dollar rate by the end of the first quarter 2012 was $1.38 on
Sept. 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. As of Dec. 8,
the median forecast of 41 analysts showed the euro will weaken
to $1.30 over the same period.  The yen and dollar climbed against a majority of their
most-traded counterparts as Chinese stocks slid after the
nation’s statistics bureau said  industrial output  rose 12.4
percent in November from a year earlier, the slowest pace since
August 2009. Consumer prices climbed 4.2 percent from a year
earlier, lower than all estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of
35 economists that had a median forecast of 4.5 percent.  Korean Economy Slowing  South Korea ’s won dropped after its central bank said the
economy is likely to grow 3.7 percent next year, slowing from a
3.8 percent gain in 2011. Inflation is forecast at 3.3 percent,
compared with 4 percent this year, it said. The  Bank of Korea 
held  borrowing costs  at 3.25 percent for a sixth month
yesterday.  “The weak forecast for the economy is supporting demand
for the dollar,” said Byeon Ji Young, a Seoul-based currency
analyst at Woori Futures Co.  The won slid 1.3 percent to 1,146.83 per dollar, the
biggest decline since Nov. 10.  The dollar tends to strengthen during periods of financial
stress because of its position as the world’s reserve currency.
The yen gains as  Japan ’s export-reliant economy doesn’t need
foreign capital to balance current accounts -- the broadest
measure of trade.  Japan’s economic recovery following two straight quarters
of contraction and a record earthquake in March is threatened by
slowing global growth and a yen rate that is near post-World War
II highs against the dollar.  The nation’s economy grew less than the government’s
initial estimate last quarter as companies reduced investment on
concern overseas demand was stalling. Gross domestic product
increased at an annualized 5.6 percent in the three months ended
Sept. 30, the Cabinet Office said today, compared with a
preliminary figure of 6 percent.  The yen has climbed 1.4 percent in the past month, the best
performer among 10 developed market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The dollar has gained
1.2 percent and the euro has lost 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  