-- 
Euro Region Central Banks May Agree on $201 Billion of Loans Through IMF

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-12-08T12:02:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/euro-region-central-banks-may-agree-on-201-billion-of-loans-through-imf.html
Euro-area leaders may agree to
provide 150 billion euros ($201 billion) in loans through the
 International Monetary Fund , opening a new financial pipeline to
fight the debt crisis, a European Union diplomat said.  Euro governments expect that a summit starting tonight will
yield a pledge by non-euro EU countries to chip in another 50
billion euros, in loans provided by national central banks, the
diplomat told reporters in Brussels today.  Under the proposal, national central banks would recycle
funds through the IMF, potentially to underwrite precautionary
lending programs for  Italy  or Spain, the two countries judged to
be the most vulnerable now, two officials familiar with the
plans said last week.  Germany, Europe’s dominant economy, hasn’t taken a public
stance on the proposal.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has insisted
that the rest of  Europe  first bow to tighter rules on budget
deficits in order to reassure central bankers about the euro
region’s longer-term economic health.  Still, the German government wouldn’t bar the Bundesbank
from channeling loans to the IMF, Michael Meister, the
parliamentary finance spokesman for Merkel’s  Christian
Democratic Union , said in a Dec. 5 interview.  Loans via the IMF would bring central banks onto the
frontlines in fighting the crisis without violating European
rules that outlaw direct lending by monetary authorities to
governments, the EU diplomat told reporters today.  The euro area’s 17 national central banks operate under the
European Central Bank’s umbrella. ECB President  Mario Draghi 
last week hinted at a stepped-up crisis-fighting role as long as
governments move toward a “fiscal compact” that ensures sound
public finances.  Draghi will brief reporters at 2:30 p.m. in  Frankfurt  after
the bank’s monthly interest-rate-setting meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  