-- 
Europe’s Choreographers Must Yield Floor to Voters: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-12-08T00:07:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/europe-s-choreographers-must-yield-the-dance-floor-to-their-voters-view.html
If it seems as though the past week’s
events in  Europe  are unfolding like a well-choreographed dance
ahead of a two-day summit starting today, they are.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  called the
tune by hinting on Dec. 1 that he might do more to fight
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis if the euro area agreed to a new
fiscal compact. Within days,  Italy ’s Cabinet, led by  Mario Monti , the new technocratic prime minister, proposed painful
budget cuts to tame the country’s debt. The next day, the German
and French leaders, in a trademark pas de deux, agreed on strict
procedures to deal with fiscal sinners that all 17 members of
the currency bloc would have to adopt. Yesterday, officials
discussed how to beef up a rescue fund that would spring into
action in 2012, a year earlier than planned. The ECB took action
today by cutting its benchmark  interest rate  by a quarter point
to 1 percent, matching a record low.  By the time the heads of state depart Brussels tomorrow,
they hope to have agreement, at least among the currency bloc’s
leaders, on measures aimed at convincing baying markets that the
debt crisis is finally under control. Their latest plan will
probably include a closer fiscal union overseen by a
supranational body of technocrats and automatic sanctions for
countries that breach the rules -- annual deficits below 3
percent of gross domestic product and total debt below 60
percent of GDP. Draghi, we hope, will cap it all off by making
good on his quid pro quo offer with central bank bond purchases
or guarantees.  There’s one crucial step they mustn’t overlook: Euro-area
countries will need to put treaty changes to parliamentary and
popular votes, and that means they’ll have to convince both the
rescued and the rescuers that the package is a good deal. To
that end, the premiers should go into their meetings with a list
of principles for winning over grass-roots support.  Our list begins with a warning that enforcement can’t be
overly Teutonic. Instead of adhering to the kind of strict,
unbending rules that German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  seeks, the
panel of technocrats should have the discretion to recommend to
a sovereign nation spending cuts and tax increases, but not
impose them. Its remit could include issuing milestones that are
tailored for each country and totally transparent. Italy, for
example, might have to hit the 60 percent debt-to-GDP ratio --
from about 120 percent now -- within a set number of years (it
could take decades) but reform its labor markets, civil service
and public pensions more quickly, say by 2014.  The supranational panel, which would have the right to
inspect Italy’s accounts, could also publicly award quarterly or
semiannual fiscal grades reflecting how closely Italy is hewing
to the budget milestones it negotiated and accepted.  The enforcement rules must also have incentives for fiscal
rectitude and disincentives for recklessness. For instance, once
the immediate crisis is past, a country could be allowed to
issue new debt in the form of euro bonds that are collectively
backed by all euro-area governments -- but only if it has at
least a “B” fiscal grade.  Alternately, a country that repeatedly misses its fiscal
targets could be put in the timeout box by having its  voting
rights  in various European panels suspended temporarily, or its
fiscal aid cut.  The package must contain a countercyclical escape valve so
that temporary deficits are allowed in bad economic times, as
long as they are made up for in good times. Finally, the
summiteers should leave the door open for controlled Greek and
Portuguese defaults. The two countries might not be able to
lower their debt ratios to 60 percent without destroying their
economies and demoralizing their citizens.  Any enforcement mechanism that makes voters feel they’ve
yielded too much sovereignty to a central authority will be
voted down in places like Ireland, Italy and  Spain . And if the
rules are too loose, the  bond market  won’t believe the fiscal
compact is credible. The last thing the euro area needs is a
popular rejection of treaty changes or another debt crisis. It’s
imperative that Europe’s leaders strike the right balance.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 