-- 
Euro-Region Debt Crisis Will Weigh on Franc, Krona, Pound, Barclays Says

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-12-08T17:26:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/euro-region-debt-crisis-will-weigh-on-franc-krona-pound-barclays-says.html
The euro may fall further next year,
dragging down European currencies such as the Swiss franc, the
Swedish krona and the pound, as the region’s debt crisis leads
to slower growth and lower  interest rates , Barclays Plc said.  The  European Central Bank  cut its benchmark interest rate
by 25 basis points today to 1 percent. It also revised down its
growth forecast for next year to a range of minus 0.4 percent to
plus 1.0 percent, from 0.4 percent to 2.2 percent previously.  “We remain bearish on the euro and all European
currencies,” Barclays strategists including Piero Ghezzi and
 Paul Robinson  wrote in their Global Outlook. “Even as euro zone
sovereign risks recede, the outlook of weaker growth, looser
monetary policy and a potential acceleration in ECB sovereign-
bond purchases should continue to weigh on the euro.”  Investors should express their bearish view on European
currencies by buying the dollar and selling the Swiss franc,
Barclays said. The  Swiss National Bank  capped the franc’s rate
at 1.20 per euro on Sept. 6 after the currencies almost reached
parity in August, crimping the nation’s economic growth.  “The franc has been the currency most closely associated
with the European crisis, including the euro itself,” according
to the report. The bank forecasts that the franc will weaken to
1.08 per dollar over the next year, from 92.76 centimes at 5:14
p.m. London time.  Barclays cut its euro forecast this week to $1.20 in 12
months, from $1.35. The bank also predicted the pound will trade
at $1.50 in a year, from the previous forecast of $1.61.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  