-- 
Texas Instruments Falls Most in Four Months After Missing Sales Estimates

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-12-09T14:50:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/texas-instruments-forecasts-sales-that-fall-short-of-analysts-estimates.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  dropped the
most in almost four months in New York trading after the
company’s fourth-quarter sales forecast fell short of analysts’
estimates amid weaker demand for electronics components.  Revenue will be $3.19 billion to $3.33 billion, the Dallas-
based company said in a statement yesterday. On average,
analysts had estimated sales of $3.41 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Texas Instruments, the second-largest U.S. chipmaker, gets
most of its revenue from analog chips, semiconductors that are
key components in everything from missiles to washing machines,
making its earnings a broad indicator of demand across the
economy. Sales are being hurt by slowing purchases of
electronics and falling orders from telecommunications-equipment
makers.  “There’s no confidence out there,” said Tore Svanberg, a
San Francisco-based analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. He
recommends buying Texas Instruments stock, which he owns
himself. “Distributors are still very cautious and are still
drawing down inventory.”  In October, Texas Instruments predicted fourth-quarter
revenue would be $3.26 billion to $3.54 billion. This is the
first quarter that Texas Instruments is including its National
Semiconductor Corp. acquisition in the forecasts. That
transaction closed on Sept. 23.  Inventory Reduction  Texas Instruments fell 3 percent to $29.01 at 9:46 a.m. in
 New York , after earlier posting the biggest intraday percentage
loss since August. The shares were down 7.9 percent this year
before today.  “The weakness is pretty much broad-based, with the
exception of wireless,” Texas Instruments Vice President  Ron Slaymaker  said on a conference call with analysts. “Orders will
likely decline some from the third quarter.”  Texas Instruments is shipping fewer chips than its
customers are using, evidence of a reduction of inventory by its
distributors, Slaymaker said. By region,  Europe  is the weakest,
followed by Asia and then the U.S., he said. Only  Japan  will
grow this quarter as it continues to rebound from the effects of
the March earthquake and tsunami.  The European sovereign debt crisis and budget struggles in
the U.S. are helping suppress  consumer spending . The Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index was at minus 50.3 in the period ended
Dec. 4, after a reading of minus 50.2 the prior week. The gauge
has been at minus 50 or worse for 11 of the past 12 weeks, an
unprecedented stretch of pessimism in its 26-year history.  Applications Chips  Texas Instruments’ OMAP applications processor is the main
chip in Amazon.com Inc.’s new Kindle Fire tablet and smartphones
made by Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and other handset
manufacturers. OMAP, or Open Multimedia Application Platform,
chips are estimated to represent about 7 percent of the
company’s revenue, according to Chris Danely, an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Profit in the fourth quarter, including costs related to
the acquisition of National Semiconductor, will be 21 cents to
25 cents a share, the company said yesterday. In October, Texas
Instruments forecast earnings of 28 cents to 36 cents.  Three of Texas Instruments’ largest customers are  Avnet
Inc. (AVT) ,  Arrow Electronics Inc . and  WPG Holdings Ltd. (3702)  -- all
distributors of electronic components -- which account for a
combined 23 percent of the company’s sales, according to
Bloomberg data.  Texas Instruments ranked second behind  Santa Clara ,
California-based  Intel Corp. (INTC)  among U.S. chipmakers in total
sales last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  