-- 
Texas Teacher Pension-Fund Investments Lost 7% in Third Quarter

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-12-08T21:57:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/texas-teacher-pension-fund-investments-lost-7-in-third-quarter.html
The 1.3 million-member Texas Teacher
Retirement System  lost (SPX)  7 percent on investments in the third
quarter, a consultant to the plan said, citing an underweight
position in U.S. Treasury securities.  Including payouts and contributions, assets fell 8 percent
to about $101.1 billion on Sept. 30 from $109.9 billion on July
1, figures from Hewitt EnnisKnupp, the consultant, show in a
report presented today to the fund’s board members in Austin.  “We had a terrible third quarter, but the trust is up 3.6
percent over the past year,” said Britt Harris, the fund’s
chief investment officer, during a meeting in which the figures
were reviewed. Investments earned 3.6 percent for the 12 months
through September and 4.6 percent for the past three years.  Compared with more than 70 percent of U.S. public pensions,
the Texas plan had better one-year returns, Harris said. “If we
are getting all Ds, everybody else is getting Fs.”  By comparison, the  Standard & Poor’s 500  lost about 14
percent in the third quarter, while Treasuries rose 6.4 percent,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  The fund hasn’t reduced a $700 million investment in gold
because it hasn’t seen a “bubble signal” in bullion prices,
Harris said. The plan’s stake in the precious metal has jumped
more than 40 percent in value in two years, he said.  The retirement system has reorganized its fund during the
past three years to expand holdings in private equity, emerging
markets, commodities and real estate while reducing its fixed-
income assets, Harris said. The strategy is designed to protect
the fund in a more inflationary environment, while most plans
aren’t sufficiently diversified, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 