-- 
Mexico Peso Drops as Europe Concern Overshadows Export Optimism

-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-12-08T17:15:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/mexico-peso-drops-as-europe-concern-overshadows-export-optimism.html
Mexico ’s peso dropped the most in two
weeks as concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis overshadowed a
decline in U.S. jobless claims that fueled optimism for the
Latin American country’s exports.  The peso fell 1.3 percent to 13.6813 per  U.S. dollar  at
10:59 a.m. in Mexico City, from 13.5107 yesterday. It dropped
1.4 percent on Nov. 23. The currency has weakened 9.8 percent
this year.  The peso reversed earlier gains after the European Central
Bank damped speculation that it would increase debt purchases to
fight the region’s crisis. Labor Department figures in
Washington today showed jobless claims in the U.S., the
destination for 80 percent of Mexico’s exports, dropped by
23,000 to 381,000 in the week ended Dec. 3, the fewest since
February.  “At first the day opened optimistically,” Omar Martin del
Campo, head trader at Banco Ve Por Mas SA in Mexico City, said
by phone. “The comments from the  European Central Bank  once
again put pressure on the currency. It looks like the problem
probably will continue.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said today that he did not
necessarily signal last week that the central bank would step up
government bond purchases, adding that the program was not
eternal or infinite.  European Union chiefs are scheduled to meet for dinner
today to discuss how to solve the euro-region’s crisis. Draghi
kept the onus on them to solve the problem by repeating his call
for a “fiscal compact” and denying he had hinted the ECB would
automatically support such an initiative with more bond
purchases.  The peso earlier rose after the U.S. jobless claims data
was released because “anything that helps the  U.S. economy  is
generally good for the  Mexican peso ,”  Benito Berber , a
strategist at Nomura Securities Inc., said by phone from New
York.  Mexico Inflation  Mexican consumer prices climbed 1.08 percent in November,
outpacing expectations for a 1.06 percent increase according to
the median estimate of 19 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. It was
the biggest jump since prices rose 1.09 percent in January 2010.
Prices increased 3.48 percent from a year ago, the national
statistics agency said on its website.  Policy makers led by Governor Agustin Carstens left the
overnight rate at 4.5 percent for a 23rd straight meeting on
Dec. 2, reiterating that the central bank is open to cut rates
if global easing continues.  The central bank said in a statement accompanying the
decision that inflation has not been affected by a recent
depreciation in the  exchange rate , although it shifted the
balance of risk on inflation to neutral from improved in the
previous statement.  The yield on Mexico’s benchmark peso-denominated bond due
in 2024 rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
6.59 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price
of the security fell 0.57 centavo to 129.75 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in  New York  at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  