-- 
Mexico’s Inflation Surges, Above Forecasts

-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 
2011-12-08T14:38:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/mexico-s-inflation-surges-above-forecasts.html
Mexico ’s consumer prices jumped by
the most in almost two years in November, limiting the central
bank’s space to lower borrowing costs as Europe’s debt crisis
deepens.  Consumer prices  rose 1.08 percent in November, outpacing
expectations for a 1.06 percent increase according to the median
estimate of 19 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. It was the
biggest jump since prices rose 1.09 percent in January 2010.
Prices rose 3.48 percent from a year ago, the national
statistics agency said on its website.  Inflation accelerated last month even as a government-
sponsored drive to boost spending led retail chains to offer
discounts on  consumer goods  across the country. The price surge
came as the peso continued to weaken against the  U.S. dollar  and
as the government removed electricity subsidies to reflect lower
energy use during the cooler, end-of-year months.  “It’s a seasonal increase,” said Rafael de la Fuente, an
economist at UBS AG in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “There’s not
enough evidence in these numbers as of yet to suggest you’re
seeing a higher pass through on account of the exchange rate.”  Central Bank Governor Agustin Carstens said Oct. 25 that a
higher-than-expected jump in consumer prices in the first half
of October will probably ease in the coming months. While the
bank says it sees no evidence that a region-beating slump in the
peso is fueling a rise in inflation expectations, policy makers
last month tapped Mexico’s $140 billion currency reserves to
protect the peso from  Europe ’s deepening debt crisis.  Peso Slide  The peso is the second-worst performer this year among 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg after  South Africa ’s rand.
It has rallied 3.6 percent since Mexico’s currency commission
announced Nov. 29 that the central bank will auction $400
million of its reserves daily to stem exchange-rate volatility.  The currency fell 0.2 percent to 13.5379 per dollar at 8:12
a.m. Mexico City time. The yield on Mexico’s benchmark peso-
denominated bond due in 2024 rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 6.56 percent.  Mexicans paid 22 percent more for electricity last month as
government subsidies were withdrawn. Food, beverage and tobacco
prices rose 0.34 percent while fruit and vegetable prices jumped
1.61 percent, the report showed.  Core inflation , excluding items such as energy and food,
rose 0.32 percent, the agency said.  Inflation Expectations  Not all economists see the peso’s 13 percent slide in the
past six months in such a benign light, and inflation
expectations have started to rise in recent analyst surveys.
Mario Correa, chief economist at Grupo Financiero Scotiabank SA
in Mexico City, said that the currency’s depreciation could
begin to cause consumer prices to rise.  “We won’t know if this is happening for another two or
three months,” Correa said in a Nov. 30 phone interview.  The  consumer price index  will end the year at 3.47 percent,
according to a Dec. 5 bi-weekly survey by Citigroup Inc.’s
Banamex unit. That compares with 3.32 percent in the previous
survey. A  Dec. 1  central bank survey showed economists increased
their forecast for 2011 inflation to 3.36 percent after having
reduced their estimates for eight consecutive months.  Finance Minister Jose Antonio Meade said Dec. 6 that the
peso’s slide is less of a concern than it was following the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “There has been less volatility in the  exchange rate  than
in 2008 and it is correcting itself,” Meade told a group of
businessmen in Mexico City. “Inflation should continue to be
well-behaved” in 2012.  Rate Cut?  Policy makers led by Carstens left the overnight rate at
4.50 percent for a 23rd straight meeting Dec. 2, reiterating
that the central bank is open to cutting rates if global
monetary easing continues.  “Risks for a quickening in inflation come from an adverse
dynamic of the exchange rate and the possibility of a rebound in
some farm prices,” the bank said.  Faster inflation last month did not alter JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s call for the central bank to begin cutting its  reference
rate  in the first quarter of 2012, Mexico City-based economist
 Gabriel Casillas  wrote in a report after today’s report.  Growth in  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy will slow
to 3.3 percent next year, according to the 2012 budget, down
from an expected 4 percent this year and 5.4 percent in 2010.  The central bank next meets Jan. 20 to decide on rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  