-- 
MF Global Trustee Defends $2.1 Billion Customer Transfer Amid Objections

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-12-08T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/mf-global-trustee-defends-2-1-billion-customer-transfer-amid-objections.html
James Giddens, the trustee overseeing
the  MF Global Inc.  brokerage liquidation, defended a planned
transfer of $2.1 billion to U.S. commodity customers after
receiving 18 formal objections and 43 letters querying the move.  In the transfer, Giddens would pay out from 80 percent to
85 percent of all assets remaining in his control, keeping $800
million in reserve, according to his court filing yesterday. Two
previous payouts to commodity customers totaled about $2
billion.  To deal with many of the objections, which “raise common
concerns,” Giddens said he “made some language changes” in a
proposed order he will ask the judge to sign approving the
transfer. To satisfy administrators of MF Global’s U.K. and
other foreign affiliates who objected that the transfer might
deplete funds available to pay them, he would make future
transfers based on available assets and not ask the judge to let
him simply use his own discretion, he said in the filing.  “The trustee believes it would be more prudent, relieve
uncertainty, and better inform the expectations of customers to
make further bulk transfers, if any, only upon further motion
and order of the court based on facts and circumstances and
availability of property,” he said.  British Unit  MF Global UK Ltd. said Dec. 6 it has $250 million remaining
in accounts at the MF Global brokerage, of which $230 million is
in segregated commodity accounts for customers. The U.K. company
hasn’t received any money from the trustee of the U.S. brokerage
and isn’t in line to get any in the third planned payout of $2.1
billion, the administrators of the bankrupt company said in a
court filing.  The judge handling the MF Global brokerage liquidation in
 New York  “must adequately protect” all former customers in any
order he signs approving Giddens’s next transfer, they said. The
judge is Martin Glenn.  Some customers faulted the transfer because it covered only
U.S. customers. The brokerage trustee treats foreign futures
customers “differently,” favoring U.S. clients, said RWA
Raiffeisen Ware Austria AG, a cooperative agricultural group.  In the filing, Giddens said he had excluded customers whose
assets are held in foreign accounts “because virtually all of
it is not under the trustee’s control, but rather under the
control of MFGI’s foreign former affiliates,” which also are
being liquidated in their home countries.  What and When  RWA has asked Giddens what he’s doing to recover the funds
from administrators of the U.K. affiliate, and when he might
return assets to these customers.  “We are urgently working on responses to all our
objectors,” said  Kent Jarrell , a Giddens spokesman, in an e-
mail.  Creditors of the MF Global parent said Giddens is planning
the distribution without explaining why he thinks the funds are
customer property or verifying that the customers are entitled
to receive the funds.  Paying the wrong people or paying out too much will hurt
the bankrupt parent company’s estate, which has claims against
the brokerage and owns its equity, MF Global Holdings Ltd.
creditors lawyer  Martin Bienenstock  said in a Dec. 5 court
filing.  The shortfall in the MF Global brokerage’s U.S. segregated
customer accounts may exceed $1.2 billion, more than double what
was previously expected, Giddens has said.  Prudent and Sufficient  “The trustee believes that the amount held back from
transfer is prudent and sufficient to address the known
potential claims while maintaining further amounts to account
for the potential of unknown claims against these same funds,”
Giddens said, referring to the $800 million he plans to hold on
to.  CME Group Inc. (CME) , which runs a futures exchange and has
guaranteed some of the trustee’s transfers, said it supports
more U.S. customer payouts.  “The proposed distribution will leave the trustee with an
ample customer segregated cash reserve,” it said in a court
filing yesterday.  Including funds already distributed, Giddens controlled
$4.9 billion in U.S. segregated commodity customer funds, CME
said. It calculated that an additional $900 million in customer
funds were traded on foreign exchanges, putting the total at
about $5.8 billion. Previous estimates put the segregated
accounts at about $5.4 billion.  Like Giddens, CME said the foreign futures accounts aren’t
in the trustee’s control.  CME said the creditors committee in the holding company’s
bankruptcy doesn’t have the legal right to object to the
trustee’s distributions.  Transfers  Giddens, who is liquidating the brokerage, has transferred
about 38,000 commodity accounts to other firms, and said he
plans to sell 330 securities accounts. Three transfers of
collateral made and pending will give commodity customers about
$4 billion of their assets, according to court filings.  The parent company’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy filing, the eighth-
largest in U.S. history, listed assets of $41 billion.  Jon Corzine , the former co-chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., quit as MF Global’s CEO on Nov. 4.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  