-- 
MF Global Trustee Will Pursue All ‘Legally Available’ Assets

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-12-08T22:23:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/mf-global-commodity-customers-can-t-count-on-100-payment-congress-told.html
The MF Global Inc. brokerage trustee
will pursue all “legally available” assets, including those
from individuals who may have liability for breaking the rules
requiring protection of commodity customers’ accounts, a lawyer
for trustee James Giddens told members of Congress.  James Kobak, the lawyer, said to the House Agriculture
Committee at a hearing in  Washington  today that customers now
have no assurance of a 100 percent return of assets as money is
missing from the segregated accounts. The trustee believes as
much as $1.2 billion is missing, and isn’t ready to make
“definitive conclusions” about what happened to it, Kobak
said.  Jon Corzine , the former chief executive officer of defunct
parent company MF Global Holdings Ltd., said he “would never
have intended” transfers from segregated accounts and had no
knowledge of any such movements of funds before the bankruptcy.  “I was devastated” to learn that money was missing, and
“I truly apologize” to all those who have lost money, Corzine
told the committee.  Jill E. Sommers, of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, said there are civil options for recovering money
from anyone found responsible, aside from criminal lawsuits.  Restitution  “It is my understanding there are a number of different
avenues,” including fines of as much as three times the amount
of the monetary gain, plus additional fines “we could charge
for restitution,” she said. Restitution money would go to
customers and fines would go to the  U.S. Treasury , she said.  The judge handling the MF Global bankruptcies asked Giddens
yesterday if he was “disinterested” enough to sue to recover
money if necessary from parties such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , a
lender to the parent company.  Joseph Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to
comment.  In the end, regulators will find out where the missing
money is, Sommers said. MF Global’s transactions “weren’t too
complex to understand,” although tracing the transactions is
taking time, she said.  Asked whether the CFTC thought other futures merchants like
MF Global could also face bankruptcy, Sommers said there is no
“watch list” for potential failures.  “I’m sure there are firms that may be close to the
margins,” she said.  Kobak and Sommers were witnesses in the  committee’s hearing 
into the causes and effects of MF Global bankruptcy.  Trustee Website  Kobak, asked whether customer funds may have been
systematically dipped into to use as collateral for a  bank loan ,
said he couldn’t explain how that would have happened, and his
research hasn’t shown that occurred.  The trustee’s website had 222,000 hits by 60,000 people
last month, Kobak said in prepared testimony.  Giddens’s third transfer of assets to customers would be
$2.1 billion. In the transfer, Giddens would pay out from 80
percent to 85 percent of all assets remaining in his control,
keeping $800 million in reserve, according to the trustee’s
court filing yesterday. Two previous payouts to commodity
customers totaled about $2 billion.  Must Wait  Discussing claims on the brokerage estate in a court filing
yesterday, Giddens said all creditors who weren’t customers,
including the parent company’s creditors, would have to wait
until customers were paid all their money before they got
anything. The law allows the trustee to use any estate property
to fill “gaps” in customer funds caused by unlawful actions,
he said.  Giddens was defending the $2.1 billion “distribution of
property to farmers and others in danger in many cases of losing
their homes, their businesses, their savings,” after being
challenged by creditors of the parent company.  Giddens, whose law firm has done work for JPMorgan, has
said he doesn’t believe he has conflicts of interest and can
defend customers of the brokerage.  Separately today, a Chapter 11 trustee appointed in the
bankruptcy of parent MF Global Holdings said a proposed transfer
of some securities-customer accounts shouldn’t give those
customers the total net equity in their accounts. Because the
brokerage is 100 percent-owned by the holding company, the
equity in MF Global units is an asset of the bankrupt estate,
wrote lawyers for the trustee, former Federal Bureau of
Investigation director  Louis Freeh .  Freeh also said he has had only nine days to coordinate
administration of the estate and “will not begin to contemplate
any distributions for quite some time” to the parent company’s
creditors.  CME Group  CME Group Inc., which runs a futures exchange and has
guaranteed some of the trustee’s transfers, said it supports
more U.S. customer payouts.  Including funds already distributed, Giddens controlled
$4.9 billion in U.S. segregated commodity customer funds, CME
said. It calculated that an additional $900 million in customer
funds were traded on foreign exchanges, putting the total at
about $5.8 billion. Previous estimates put the segregated
accounts at around $5.4 billion.  Using Giddens’s estimate of $1.2 billion in missing funds,
customers have a shortfall of more than 20 percent in their
segregated accounts. If the trustee makes a proposed third
distribution of $2.1 billion, it will be enough to repay
customers 69 percent to 70 percent of their accounts, Kobak said
in testimony today. There isn’t enough to distribute 75 percent,
as some customers wanted, he said.  Transferred Accounts  Giddens, who is liquidating the brokerage, has transferred
about 38,000 commodity accounts to other firms, and plans to
sell 330 securities accounts, he said. Three transfers of
collateral made and pending will give commodity customers about
$4 billion of their assets, according to court filings.  The parent company’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy filing, the eighth-
largest in U.S. history, listed assets of $41 billion.  Corzine, the former co-chief executive officer of Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., quit as MF Global’s CEO on Nov. 4.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 