-- 
MF Global Parent Creditors Won’t Soon Receive Distributions, Trustee Says

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-12-08T13:56:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/mf-global-parent-creditors-won-t-soon-receive-distributions-trustee-says.html
Trustee  Louis Freeh , appointed to
oversee the  MF Global Holdings Ltd.  bankruptcy, said he has had
only nine days to coordinate administration of the estate and
“will not begin to contemplate any distributions for quite some
time.”  Freeh, a former U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation
director, accepted the job as trustee for the bankrupt parent of
brokerage MF Global Inc. in a Dec. 2 letter to a judge who
approved his appointment last month, posting a $26 million bond
for “the faithful performance” of his official duties. He made
the statement about payouts in a court filing yesterday.  Freeh’s job includes recovering assets for creditors of the
company formerly run by  Jon Corzine  and dealing with requests
for information from investigators seeking as much as $1.2
billion in missing brokerage customer money, according to court
filings. Corzine said in a statement prepared for a House
Agriculture Committee hearing today that he “simply” doesn’t
know where the money is.  Freeh filed papers in court in response to a brokerage
customer who asked the judge handling the separate bankruptcies
of parent and broker-dealer to ensure that brokerage customers
are paid first in any distributions by the parent. The customer,
Sapere Wealth Management LLC, wanted Judge Martin Glenn to set
an emergency hearing to consider the request, before he decides
if the parent should continue to use up its remaining cash.  ‘Pressing Needs’  Freeh told the judge he won’t have enough time to consider
Sapere’s request for special treatment for customers, “along
with more pressing needs of the estate.”  The parent company’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy filing, the eighth-
largest in U.S. history, listed assets of $41 billion. Corzine,
the former co-chief executive officer of  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , quit as MF Global’s CEO on Nov. 4.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  