-- 
U.S. Mortgage Debt Falls to Five-Year Low as Consumer Wealth Effect Fades

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 
2011-12-08T17:22:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/falling-mortgage-debt-erodes-spending-as-wealth-effect-fades.html
U.S. mortgage debt, a driver of
 consumer spending  during the real estate boom, dropped to the
lowest level in almost five years in the third quarter as
foreclosures wipe out home loans and housing purchases fall.  The volume of outstanding home mortgages declined to $9.88
trillion from $9.94 trillion at June 30, according to Federal
Reserve data released today. The reading was the lowest since
the end of 2006. Mortgage volume peaked at $10.6 trillion in
early 2008, the final months of a decade-long borrowing binge.  The mortgage lending that boosted spending and padded bank
profits during the 2001 to 2006 surge in  home prices  is failing
to aid the U.S. economic recovery as the worth of real estate
plunges, Doug Duncan, chief economist of mortgage-financier
 Fannie Mae (FNMA) , said in a telephone interview from  Washington .
Outstanding home-loan volume may drop “for at least another
couple of years,” he said.  “Consumers are still leveraged well above average,”
Duncan said. “That has to be worked off before you’ll see a
return of robust consumption.”  Lending for mortgages to purchase homes probably will fall
to $80 billion in the fourth quarter, the lowest since 1991 and
one-fifth the volume of a record high in mid-2005, according to
the  Mortgage Bankers Association  in Washington. Home prices are
down 31 percent from a July 2006 peak, based on the S&P/Case-
Shiller home price  index  of 20 U.S. cities.  Underwater Loans  Declining property values have wiped out more than $4
trillion in real estate wealth over four years, according to the
 Federal Reserve , and left almost a third of U.S. mortgage payers
owing more than the value of their house, data from Zillow Inc.
show. The 29 percent of mortgaged homeowners who were underwater
on their loans in the third quarter is up from 23 percent a year
earlier, according to the Seattle-based real estate information
and sales service.  Kenna Stormogipson, in Oakland,  California , is one of those
underwater borrowers. She said she’s stuck in a house she bought
for $485,000 in 2005.  “You can’t leave,” said Stormogipson, 31, a high school
science teacher. “You can’t really spend money on anything
else.”  The duplex home, which has first and second mortgages
totaling $462,000, would sell for about $200,000 today, she
said. Loan payments took up more than half of her monthly $5,000
salary, she said.  Stormogipson stopped making full mortgage payments six
months ago because her lender wouldn’t agree to a loan
modification. This Christmas, she’s going to make gifts at home,
such as soap and arts and crafts items.  ‘Big Problem’  “Negative equity is the big problem,”  Stan Humphries ,
chief economist for Zillow, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s hard to come up with a way to erase the negative equity
that’s fair to homeowners who were going to continue to pay and
in a way that doesn’t bankrupt either the banks or the
taxpayer.”  Homeowners who aren’t underwater have been able to put more
money in their pockets by refinancing at historically low
 interest rates . The average U.S. rate for 30-year fixed
mortgages was 3.99 percent this week, just above a record low of
3.94 percent on Oct. 6, according to  Freddie Mac , the McLean,
Virginia-based mortgage-finance company.  The rate likely will be 4.2 percent this quarter and match
that level in the first three months of 2012, according to a
forecast from the Mortgage Bankers Association. That would be
the lowest quarterly number in  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  records dating to
1971.  Refinancing Terms  While 4.5 million homeowners refinanced last year, an
estimated 2.3 million others were ineligible for lowering
monthly payments because of home-value declines, according to a
September Federal Reserve report. President  Barack Obama  in
October directed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which have both
been under U.S. government conservatorship since 2008, to ease
refinancing terms for underwater homeowners.  The volume of outstanding mortgage debt probably will fall
further in 2012, Humphries said, as homeowners continue to pay
down principal and properties are  taken over  by banks. About 4.5
million homes with $800 billion in mortgages are more than 90
days delinquent, and most of those will be repossessed,  Fannie
Mae ’s Duncan said. Currently, about 2.2 million homes are in
foreclosure, according to Lenders Processing Services in
Jacksonville,  Florida .  Cars, Televisions  Plunging home values have counteracted the so-called wealth
effect that spurred people to spend money as real estate values
grew. Consumers spent about $677.3 billion, or about $113
billion a year, from home-equity loans on purchases such as cars
or televisions during the 2000 to 2005 real estate boom,
according to a 2007 paper by former Federal Reserve Chairman
 Alan Greenspan  and Fed economist James Kennedy. Another $376.2
billion, or about $63 billion a year, went toward home
renovations.  During the last five years, households may have cut
spending even more than they expanded it during the real estate
boom, Chad Wilkerson and Megan Williams, economists at the
Federal Reserve Bank of  Kansas City , wrote in a report earlier
this year.  “Consumption can be more sensitive to changes in housing
wealth than other types of wealth,” the economists wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  