-- 
Farmers See Future of Climate Change With Scientists’ Time Trip

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-12-08T17:46:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/farmers-see-future-of-climate-change-with-scientists-time-trip.html
Farmers will be able to gauge the
effects of  climate change  by “virtual time travel” to match
growing conditions on their farm 20 years from now with those
in existing locations, according to a team of scientists.  Making the link between future conditions and places which
have that climate today will help farmers adapt to changes in
temperature and precipitation, Julian Ramirez, a researcher at
the International Center for Tropical Agriculture, or CIAT,
said in an e-mailed  statement  today.  Long-term climate change may have “catastrophic” effects
on  food production , the United Nations Food and Agriculture
Organization said in March. Wheat and corn yields will likely
drop on rising temperatures, research by the International
Maize and Wheat Improvement Center shows.  “Climate change will significantly alter growing
conditions, but in most places the new farming environment will
not be novel in the global context,” Ramirez said. “Rather,
the situation in the future will closely resemble conditions
that already exist in other parts of the world.”  The CGIAR Research Program on Climate Change, Agriculture
and  Food Security   developed software  to find “climate
analogues” that will help farmers maintain future
productivity, the group said in today’s statement.  Argentina , Uruguay  Corn growers around Durban in  South Africa  face a 1 degree
Celsius (1.8 degrees Fahrenheit) temperature increase during
the growing season by 2030, and studies at Stanford University
indicate that may cut yields by about 20 percent, the group
said. At the same time, farmers in Argentina and Uruguay are
growing corn at average temperatures that are 3 degrees higher.  Soybean farmers in Argentina and the central and southern
U.S. already manage conditions similar to those that farmers
around Shanghai will experience within about 20 years,
according to the statement.  “If Chinese farmers want to continue growing soybean,
they need to look at the kinds of farming practices and crop
varieties that farmers in northern Argentina and other analogue
regions are growing,” Andy Jarvis, a researcher at CIAT, said
in the statement.  The “climate analogues tool” compares locations based on
similarities in precipitation and temperature, as well as
factors including soil type, according to the statement.  The software can also be used to select a location and
identify where similar climates may be in 2030, according to
the researchers. The mild winter months in today’s  Los Angeles 
may be found in the southern parts of the U.S.’s eastern
seaboard as well as  France , northern  Germany  and the
Netherlands by 2030, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 