-- 
FCC Nominees Clear Senate Panel, Face Grassley Opposition

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-12-08T18:08:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/fcc-nominees-clear-senate-panel-may-face-grassley-opposition.html
A Senate panel approved two Federal
Communications Commission nominees whose confirmation may be
blocked by a Republican lawmaker challenging the agency’s
handling of  Philip Falcone ’s LightSquared wireless venture.  The Commerce Committee voice vote today moves the
nominations of Jessica Rosenworcel, a Democrat, and Ajit Pai, a
Republican, to the full Senate for consideration.  Senator  Charles Grassley , who is not a committee member,
said he would prevent a vote on the nominees because the agency
hasn’t answered questions about whether it gave favorable
treatment to LightSquared. The Reston, Virginia-based company
needs FCC approval for its planned nationwide wireless network
that critics say may interfere with global-positioning system
devices.  Grassley, of  Iowa , said in an e-mail today that the FCC
hasn’t provided information about what he called an “apparent
rush to approve” LightSquared.  “As a last resort to try to exhort more transparency and
accountability from the FCC, I’ll place a hold on consideration
of the agency nominees on the Senate floor,” Grassley said.  Tammy Sun, an FCC spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return a
telephone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , the West Virginia Democrat who is
chairman of the Commerce Committee, said today he is “confident
we can address any concerns about the nominees quickly so we can
clear the way for full Senate confirmation.”  Full Strength  Pai, a partner at Jenner & Block, joined the  law firm  in
April after leaving the general counsel’s office at the FCC,
where he had worked since 2007, according to a Senate staff
memo. Rosenworcel is senior communications counsel to the
Commerce Committee, where she has worked since 2007, according
to the memo. She worked at the FCC from 1999 to 2007, including
as a legal adviser to Democratic Commissioner Michael Copps,
whom she would replace.  The nominees’ arrival would return the five-member FCC to
full strength for the first time since a commissioner left in
June to join  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  Copps, his term expired, is to resign
by Jan. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  