-- 
Fees Blind Investors to Returns on Bond Changes, Fidelity Says

-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 
2011-12-08T07:35:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/fees-blind-investors-to-returns-on-bond-changes-fidelity-says.html
Bondholders are rushing to accept
one-off fees from Asian companies asking to amend their notes
rather than considering total returns, according to FIL Ltd.  “It’s the medium-term approach to total return when
looking at covenant changes that sometimes gets missed,” said
Bryan Collins, a fixed income portfolio manager, at FIL Ltd.,
known as Fidelity Worldwide Investment. If companies take on
more debt, “that’s going to deteriorate their credit profile
which is going to see their bond price potentially fall,” he
said during a media briefing yesterday at his offices in  Hong
Kong . Fidelity manages $207.9 billion of assets globally.  Asian companies are more likely than European or U.S.
borrowers to alter terms on their debt to increase the amount
they can borrow as these amendments are often cheaper than
buying the bond back and reissuing the bond, Collins said.
Issuers typically offer bondholders a fee to accept changes,
which have to be approved by a specified percentage of
investors, usually a simple majority, he said.  Property developer Shanghai Industrial Urban Development
Group Ltd. won approval last month to loosen checks on its
ability to pay fixed charges under the terms of a $400 million
9.75 percent bond. The company paid investors $7.50 for every
$1,000 of principal, according to a document published by the
Hong Kong stock exchange on Nov. 3.  The bond’s yield rose 49 basis points on Nov. 17, Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show, the day after the
changes were approved. Fidelity held 6.25 percent of Shanghai
Industrial’s outstanding bonds as of April 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dollar bonds typically restrict debt incurrence when sold,
but Hong Kong sales of yuan bonds do not, according to Sabita
Prakash, head of Asian fixed income at Fidelity. “Covenants
need to be strong and need to be made stronger and I would say
that even more emphatically, even more strongly, and even more
assertively for the offshore renminbi or Dim Sum bonds,” she
said at the briefing.  Sixty percent of non-financial corporate securities listed
on HSBC Holding Plc’s Offshore Renminbi Bond Index contain no
leverage limits, according to marketing materials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  