-- 
Drop in Jobless Claims a Sign Market is Mending

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-12-08T16:37:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/first-time-jobless-claims-in-u-s-decrease-to-lowest-level-in-nine-months.html
Fewer Americans than forecast filed
applications for  unemployment benefits  last week, reflecting a
drop in firings that may signal the job market is on the mend.  Jobless  claims  fell by 23,000 to 381,000 in the week ended
Dec. 3, the fewest since February, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington. Other data showed consumer sentiment
has stabilized around levels usually associated with recessions,
and wholesalers boosted inventories heading into the holidays.  A decrease in firings may foreshadow bigger gains in hiring
that will help Americans gain enough confidence in the economic
recovery to sustain the pickup in holiday spending into 2012.
Nonetheless, the specter of a slump in  Europe  brought on by the
debt crisis and government haggling over the U.S. budget loom as
obstacles to bigger increases in employment.  “The U.S. continues to show solid momentum in what has
been the Achilles heel of the recovery, the labor market,” said
 Eric Green , chief market economist at TD Securities Inc. in New
York. “It reinforces what is a big divergence in economic
fortunes between the U.S. and Europe. If the European crisis
takes a turn for the worse, the knock-on effect to the U.S.
means good data today can sour quickly.”  Stocks fell after European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  said he didn’t signal plans to purchase more bonds last
week, damping speculation the central bank will act. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.3 percent to 1,245.22 at
11:35 a.m. in New York.  Treasury securities  rose, sending the
yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to 1.98 percent from
2.03 percent late yesterday.  Cutting Rates  The ECB today reduced its benchmark rate by a quarter
percentage point to 1 percent, matching a record low. It pledged
for the first time to offer banks unlimited cash for three years
and loosened the collateral rules it imposes when lending to
financial institutions.  In  Asia , machinery orders in  Japan  unexpectedly fell in
October for a second straight month, signaling that a slowing
global economy and the strong yen are prompting companies to
postpone investment. Bookings, an indicator of  capital spending ,
decreased 6.9 percent from a month earlier, the Cabinet Office
said in  Tokyo , a larger decline than predicted by all 27
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The  median  jobless claims forecast of 47 economists in a
Bloomberg survey called for a drop to 395,000. Estimates ranged
from 375,000 to 410,000. The Labor Department revised the prior
week’s figure, which included the Thanksgiving Day holiday, up
to 404,000 from a previously reported 402,000.  Consumer Comfort  The Bloomberg  Consumer Comfort  Index was at minus 50.3 in
the period ended Dec. 4, after a reading of minus 50.2 the prior
week, a report showed today. The gauge has been at minus 50 or
worse for 11 of the past 12 weeks, an unprecedented stretch of
pessimism in its 26-year history.  “ Consumer confidence  appears to be stabilizing, albeit
near historically low levels,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior
economist at Bloomberg LP in  New York . “However, that
stabilization is quite tenuous. Like the  U.S. economy , consumer
confidence is at risk due to the events unfolding in Europe and
the increasingly divisive rhetoric coming out of Washington.”  Inventories  at U.S. wholesalers rose in October by the most
in five months as distributors moved to bring stockpiles in line
with demand, a report from the Commerce Department also showed.
The 1.6 percent increase followed no change in September.  Rebuilding Inventories  The gain shows companies are trying to rebuild stockpiles
as sales improve, which will help the world’s largest economy
accelerate this quarter. Economists at Barclays Capital Inc. in
New York raised their tracking estimate for fourth-quarter gross
domestic product to a 3.2 percent annual rate following the
report from 2.8 percent. GDP grew at a 2 percent pace from July
through September.  The improvement in jobless claims may have been exaggerated
by seasonal effects, said  Brian Jones , a senior U.S. economist
at  Societe Generale  in New York.  “The numbers are moving in the right direction,” said Jones,
who forecast a drop to 380,000. “You have to be careful because
we’re around the Thanksgiving holiday and the Department of
Labor has a hard time adjusting around floating holidays.”  A Labor Department spokesman said there was nothing unusual
in the state level data last week.  The seasonal-adjustment factors projected applications
would jump by about 182,000, representing a rebound from the
shortened, Thanksgiving holiday workweek and the biggest upward
adjustment for the year. Instead they climbed by about 151,000,
pushing down the adjusted reading, the spokesman said.  Seasonal Firings  The decrease may also reflect fewer year-end seasonal
dismissals, the spokesman said.  The number of people continuing to receive jobless benefits
dropped by 174,000 in the week ended Nov. 26 to 3.58 million,
the fewest since September 2008. Those who’ve used up their
traditional benefits and are now collecting emergency and
extended payments decreased by about 211,600 to 3.31 million in
the week ended Nov. 19.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly dropped to 8.6 percent
in November and payrolls increased by 120,000 after a 100,000
gain the prior month that was larger than previously estimated,
figures from the Labor Department showed last week.  President  Barack Obama  and congressional leaders are trying
to put together a package of year-end tax and spending
provisions that can be enacted, including an extension of the
 payroll tax  cut and jobless benefits.  Many lawmakers agree that the 2 percentage-point cut in the
payroll tax for employees, which expires Dec. 31, should be
extended through 2012. They also agree that Congress should
continue expanded unemployment benefits and prevent Medicare
reimbursements from being cut in January. They disagree over how
to offset the cost to the  U.S. Treasury  and on what other
provisions should be added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  