-- 
Floods, Tsunami May Dent ‘Black Box’ Supply-Chain Insurance

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-12-09T12:10:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/floods-tsunami-may-dent-black-box-of-supply-chain-insurance.html
Insurers and reinsurers may limit the
coverage they offer for supply-chain disruptions and negotiate
higher prices after record claims from natural disasters in
 Japan  and Thailand.  Most  of its 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) of net claims
related to the earthquake and tsunami that hit Japan in March
stem from commercial covers that include business interruption
insurance, said  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer.
Insured losses from the Thai floods that disrupted factories in
Japan could be as much as $11 billion, rival  Swiss Re Ltd.  said.  Contingent business interruption policies, which protect
automakers and other manufacturers when a catastrophe in one
part of the world halts production in another, rose over the
past 10 years as reinsurers helped insurers shoulder the risks,
said Jochen Koerner, a member of the executive board in Germany
and  Austria  at insurance broker  Marsh & McLennan Co. (MMC)  This year’s
“perfect storm” boosted claims and undermined risk
assumptions, he said.  “Contingent business interruption insurance is not
straightforward and can be seen as a massive black box,” said
Koerner. “If a factory burns down, that’s only one claim in
property insurance, while the same incident could potentially
disrupt the supply chains of hundreds of companies if the
factory supplies essential goods to other companies.”  Swiss Re, the world’s second-largest reinsurer, this week
estimated its own insured claims from the Thai flooding at $600
million, while declining to say what proportion of the losses
came from contingent business interruption coverage.  Munich Re 
estimates its net claims from the flooding at about 500 million
euros before taxes.  Important Link  “The disasters in Japan and  Thailand  this year were the
worst hit that CBI coverage ever took,” said Volker Muench,
head of corporate underwriting property at  Allianz SE ’s
industrial-insurance unit. “Japan is a very important link in
the global supply chain and basically Thailand is its backup for
some industries.”  Japanese companies such as Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda
Motor Co. are the biggest foreign investors in Thailand, which
is also the world’s second-largest producer of hard disk drives
for computers.  “For weeks, factories were under several meters of water
and have been unable to produce and supply key parts to global
carmakers or digital- and electrical-goods manufacturers,” said
Brian Gray, chief underwriting officer at Zurich-based Swiss Re.  ‘Wake-Up Call’  The disaster, after northern and central regions
experienced their highest rainfall in 50 years, flooded about
1,500 industrial facilities in Thailand, which Swiss Re says is
a “significant” link in the global manufacturing supply chain.  Standard & Poor’s  earlier this week lowered the long-term
counterparty credit and financial strength ratings of  Thai
Reinsurance Public Co. (THRE) , the country’s biggest domestic
reinsurer.  “We no longer consider the market to be low catastrophe
prone,” the ratings firm said, adding that international
insurers and reinsurers would likely pick up the largest share
of the flood losses.  “The Thailand floods are another wake-up call, so that the
industry as well as the relevant manufacturers would be well
advised to tackle this issue now,” said  Torsten Jeworrek , who
heads Munich Re’s reinsurance business.  ‘Full Transparency’  To limit future losses from this type of coverage, Munich
Re is requesting more information on its customers’ supply
chains, especially in the semiconductor and automotive
industries, Jeworrek said.  “If after 18 months there is no full transparency, or
plans for replacing key suppliers of the insured to make it
possible for us to budget for these CBI exposures, we will limit
or even exclude the coverage under the reinsurance treaties,”
he said. “The scope of coverage will certainly shrink.”  Some reinsurers may cut their contingent business
interruption risk, said Bryon Ehrhart, chief executive officer
of Aon Benfield’s analytics unit. He estimates the size of the
global market for these policies at $10 billion to $12 billion.  “The experience this year has been fairly exceptional, but
I don’t think it will result in a substantial cutback of the
product,” said Ehrhart. “These losses might actually stimulate
more demand for the product.”  ‘No Models’  HDI-Gerling Industrie Versicherung AG is holding talks with
reinsurers about possible changes to its contingent business
interruption coverage, said Christoph Groffy, a spokesman for
the industrial arm of German insurer Talanx AG.  “The main problem is that there are no models to calculate
the claims potential in this area,” he said, adding that the
firm has increased policy prices this year in some loss-affected
areas.  This year’s disasters revealed the interdependency of global
production, said Muench of Allianz. Measuring potential losses
for insurers is made more complicated as extensions to
contingent business interruption policies also cover the loss a
supplier may face because physical damage has put a customer out
of business, he said.  Over the past 12 months, business was disrupted at 85
percent of 550 companies  surveyed  by the Caversham, U.K.-based
Business Continuity Institute. About 20 percent of firms, based
in 18 different countries, were affected by the earthquakes in
Japan and  New Zealand  this year.  Supporting Prices  “For 17 percent of respondents the financial costs of the
largest single incident totaled a million or more euros,”
according to the survey, which was sponsored by Zurich Financial
Services AG.  Coming after record insured losses of about $70 billion
from natural disasters in the first half, the Thai floods may
push up premiums for business interruption insurance, which is
sold by  Allianz ,  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and other
firms as an add-on to business-property coverage.  “We expect a market and worldwide review of underwriting
routines and pricing levels regarding business interruption
risks both in the industry and reinsurance industry,” said
 Christian Muschick , a Frankfurt-based analyst with Silvia Quandt
Research. “This should support pricing levels going forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  