-- 
Ford Ends 5-Year Dividend Drought by Declaring 5-Cent Payout

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-12-08T21:37:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/ford-ends-five-year-dividend-drought-by-declaring-5-cent-quarterly-payout.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, today declared a 5-cent quarterly dividend, its
first payout to shareholders since September 2006.  The move comes after Ford earned $1.65 billion in the three
months ended in September, its 10th consecutive profitable
quarter, and negotiated a new four-year contract with the  United
Auto Workers  covering its 40,600 U.S. hourly workers. The
dividend will be paid March 1 to shareholders of record on Jan.
31, the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker said in a statement.  “The board believes it is important to share the benefits
of our improved financial performance with our shareholders,”
Executive Chairman Bill Ford said in the statement. “It is an
important sign of our progress in building a profitably growing
company and our confidence in the future.”  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  revived Ford by
focusing on quality and fuel economy in new models such as the
Fiesta subcompact and redesigned Explorer sport-utility vehicle.
Ford earned $9.28 billion in the past two years after losing
$30.1 billion from 2006 through 2008 as a collapse in SUV sales
was followed by the worst recession since the Great Depression.  Ford slipped 3 percent to $10.75 at the close in  New York .
The shares tumbled 36 percent this year after rising 68 percent
in 2010.  Dividend’s Cost  The payout will cost Ford about $200 million a quarter,
Chief Financial Officer  Lewis Booth  said in a conference call
today. The automaker hopes to avoid cutting the dividend if the
economy turns down, as it has in the past, Booth said.  “Compared to the past, we’ve substantially restructured
the company; our break-even is lower than it was,” he said.
“We would expect this to be a sustainable dividend.”  If the automaker’s financial results keep improving,
“we’ll continue to look to see if we can increase the
dividend,” Booth said.  Bloomberg analysts predicted in July 2010 that a 5-cent
quarterly dividend would resume as soon as 2012. The Bloomberg
dividend estimates are based on seven criteria, including a
company’s guidance, dividend history, regression analysis and
put-call parity. The dividend may increase to 10 cents quarterly
in a year, the analysts estimate.  “A dividend is definitely a catalyst,” said  Brian Johnson , a Chicago-based analyst at  Barclays Capital  who rates
Ford “overweight.” “This is putting Ford back on the radar
screen of portfolio managers.”  S&P, Moody’s  Recovering an investment-grade  credit rating  will also
attract investors, Johnson said.  “I think the investment rating agencies are not going to
view this as inconsistent with our track back to investment
grade,” Booth said.  Standard & Poor’s  raised Ford’s credit rating two levels to
BB+, the highest non-investment grade, on Oct. 21, saying the
new contract will not impede profitability or cash generation.  “We don’t see a big chance of an upgrade in the next
year,” Robert Schulz, a New York-based analyst for S&P, said
today in a phone interview. “The prospects for cash-flow
generation outside of  North America  are probably looking
weaker.”  Fitch Ratings  upgraded Ford to BB+ from BB on Oct. 20, and
assigned a positive outlook.  Moody’s Comment  Moody’s Investors Service raised Ford’s corporate rating to
Ba1, one step below investment grade, on Oct. 27 and said the
new UAW contract reinforces the automaker’s “strong position in
North America.” Moody’s said then Ford was likely to restore a
dividend and still assigned the automaker a “positive
outlook.”  “This dividend is consistent with what we expected,”
 Bruce Clark , a New York-based analyst for Moody’s Investors
Service, said today in a phone interview.  “In terms of having any real impact on the likelihood or
time frame of getting to investment grade, it’s really not going
to be a driver,” he said. “The big drivers are executing their
existing operating plan, maintaining strong liquidity and
balance sheet and addressing challenges in  Europe .”  Ford had said it wouldn’t pay a dividend until it returned
to investment-grade ratings. That position changed in October.  “Our shareholders have been very patient,” Booth said
Oct. 20 on a conference call about the labor agreement.  ‘Begs the Question’  That change in strategy and the cost of the dividend may
delay Ford’s return to investment grade, said Jody Lurie, a
credit analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  “The fact that Ford changed its plans last quarter begs
the question as to how quickly it will achieve its investment-
grade rating,” Lurie said today in an e-mail. “The jump from
high yield to investment grade is a big one, and the company
needs to prove to the agencies that it has bondholders’ best
interest in mind.”  S&P and Moody’s assigned Ford a non-investment grade rating
in 2005.  The Ford family, which has 40 percent voting power through
a special class of stock known as Class B, didn’t influence
reinstatement of the dividend, Booth said.  “This was a management decision and recommendation to the
board that the board approved,” Booth said. “It wasn’t linked
to any particular part of our shareholders.”  Ford Family Directors  Executive Chairman  Bill Ford , great-grandson of founder
 Henry Ford , holds 14.7 million Ford common shares and 4.86
million shares of Class B stock, according to the company’s 2011
proxy statement. His cousin, Edsel Ford II, also a director of
the company, holds 3.77 million common shares and 4.84 million
Class B shares, as of Feb. 1.  The 70.9 million Class B shares will receive dividend
payments of about $3.54 million a quarter.  Concerns about Europe’s debt crisis and slow economic
growth have weighed on the automaker’s shares.  Restoring the dividend is “a pleasant surprise in light of
recent macro turmoil in Europe and general global
uncertainties,”  Itay Michaeli , an analyst with Citigroup Inc.,
wrote today in a research note. He forecasts a return to
investment grade credit ratings by the middle of next year.  “I want the stock to double over the next two or three
years,” said  Gary Bradshaw , a  fund manager  at Hodges Capital
Management in  Dallas , which owns about 250,000 Ford shares.
“That’s how we’ll make our money on Ford. The dividend is
secondary.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michgian, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  