-- 
Former Syracuse Coach Fine Sued in Pennsylvania Over Child Sex-Abuse Claim

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-12-08T21:36:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/former-syracuse-coach-fine-sued-in-pennsylvania-over-child-sex-abuse-claim.html
Former Syracuse University assistant
men’s basketball coach Bernie Fine was sued by a man alleging he
was sexually abused as a 13-year-old in a Pittsburgh hotel room.  Zach Tomaselli, who emerged in recent weeks as the third
person to accuse Fine of sexual abuse, filed the civil lawsuit
today in  Pennsylvania  state court in Pittsburgh. Fine is named
in the case as the sole defendant.  Meanwhile, former Pennsylvania State University assistant
football coach Jerry Sandusky, whom police have charged with
child sexual abuse, was released from Centre County jail this
afternoon after posting $250,000 bail. He will be confined to
his home with electronic monitoring, according to his attorney,
Joseph Amendola, and the Pennsylvania attorney general’s office.  Syracuse fired Fine, in his 36th season at the Upstate New
York university, on Nov. 27 after he was accused of sexually
abusing two former ball boys. At a press conference in Syracuse
yesterday, Onondaga County District Attorney  William Fitzpatrick 
said Fine won’t face charges related to those allegations
because the claims are too old to prosecute.  One of the former ball boys, Bobby Davis, now 39, contacted
police in 2002 and said Fine abused him when he was in seventh
grade. The other ex-ball boy, Davis’s stepbrother Mike Lang, now
45, made his allegations this year, saying Fine abused him when
Lang was in fifth or sixth grade, according to ESPN.  Pittsburgh Hotel  Tomaselli said last month that his desire to support Fine’s
other accusers prompted him to come forward with accusations
that Fine molested him in 2002 in the Pittsburgh hotel. Federal
authorities are investigating those allegations, and evidence
related to the case will be turned over to the U.S. attorney and
defense lawyers, Fitzpatrick said yesterday.  Karl Sleight, an attorney for Fine, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment on Tomaselli’s complaint.
Donald Martin, another attorney for Fine, declined to comment
and said he knew nothing about the lawsuit.  In a statement yesterday, the lawyers said they were
looking forward to reviewing “exculpatory materials” in the
case as it appeared that there is proof Tomaselli fabricated the
allegation.  Maine  Case  Tomaselli is facing sexual assault charges in Maine
involving a 14-year-old boy, the  Associated Press  reported. He
told the AP he plans to plead guilty in that case. Justin Leary,
an attorney for Tomaselli in the Maine case, said today in a
phone interview that plea negotiations in the case are
“ongoing.”  Sandusky, 67, posted bail of $200,000 in real estate and
$50,000 in a certified check from his wife, Dorothy, according
to court records. He has been accused of sexually assaulting 10
boys dating back to the 1990s. He denies wrongdoing.  Dorothy Sandusky said today in an e-mailed statement that
the new allegations against her husband were false.  “As the mother of six children, I have been devastated by
these accusations,” Dorothy Sandusky, who is known as Dottie,
said in the statement. “We don’t know why these young men have
made these false accusations, but we want everyone to know they
are untrue.”  She said she continues “to believe in Jerry’s innocence
and all the good things he has done.”  Two Schools  Fitzpatrick addressed the incidents at both Penn State and
Syracuse in his comments yesterday, saying that any comparisons
between the two schools would be inaccurate and unfair as there
was no coverup or institutional failure at Syracuse.  The Sandusky case led to the firings of legendary Penn
State football coach  Joe Paterno  and university president Graham Spanier amid criticism they didn’t do enough to stop Sandusky’s
behavior. Paterno and Spanier haven’t been accused of criminal
wrongdoing.  Two other Penn State officials, athletics director Timothy Curley and former vice president  Gary Schultz , have been charged
with perjury and failure to report allegations of sex assault
against Sandusky. Both men are scheduled to appear in court next
week.  The Fine case is Tomaselli v. Fine, 11-025439, Allegheny
County Court of Common Pleas (Pittsburgh). The Sandusky case is
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Sandusky, MJ-49201-cr-0000636-
2011, Magisterial District Court 49-2-01, Centre County ( State
College ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware  at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 