-- 
Franc Gains Versus Euro as ECB Damps Bond Buying Speculation, Cuts Rates

-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-12-08T16:33:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/franc-gains-versus-euro-as-ecb-damps-bond-buying-speculation-cuts-rates.html
The Swiss  franc  strengthened for a
second day against the euro after the  European Central Bank 
damped speculation it would increase bond purchases to counter
the region’s debt crisis.  The franc rose the most versus higher-yielding currencies
such as the South African rand and Swedish krona as stock
declines increased demand for safer assets. The currency gained
even amid speculation the central bank will take further steps
to counter its strength at its next policy meeting on Dec. 15.  “The market is disappointed that ECB didn’t say that they
will buy more bonds, and that they didn’t discuss a limit in
bond yields,” said You-Na Park, a foreign-exchange strategist
at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “If  risk aversion  rises then
investors prefer the franc over the euro.”  The franc gained 0.3 percent to 1.2351 per euro at 4:31
p.m. London time after gaining 0.2 percent yesterday. The
currency dropped 0.5 percent to 92.82 centimes per dollar, after
climbing as much as 0.7 percent.  ECB president  Mario Draghi , who said on Dec. 1 that “other
elements” could follow a push toward a fiscal union, told
reporters today he was “kind of surprised” the remarks were
viewed as a suggestion the ECB would intensify bond purchases.  Draghi was speaking in Frankfurt after the ECB lowered its
benchmark  interest rate  by a quarter percentage point to 1
percent to match a record low.  Swiss reports in the past two weeks have shown consumer
prices fell, economic growth slowed and unemployment increased,
fueling speculation the central bank will take further measures
to weaken the currency.  The franc has declined 5.2 percent in the past six months,
the worst performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index of shares fell 1.5 percent
today, and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.2 percent.  If the flight to safety “results into a too high upward
pressure for the franc then SNB might see the need for
intervention,” Commerzbank’s Park said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  