-- 
French Banks’ Capital Shortfall Shrinks to 7.3 Billion Euros

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-12-08T18:59:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/french-banks-capital-shortfall-shrinks-to-7-3-billion-euros.html
France’s four largest lenders have a
7.3 billion-euro ($9.7 billion) shortfall in capital needed to
respond to  Europe ’s debt crisis, less than the region’s banking
regulator’s 8.8 billion-euro estimate in October.  The European Banking Authority’s updated estimate reflects
third-quarter profits at BNP Paribas SA, Groupe  Credit Agricole ,
Societe Generale SA and Groupe BPCE and their efforts to cut
sovereign debt holdings and other capital-sapping assets.  “French banks have published positive results, so their
capital situation is bound to have improved,” Alex Koagne, an
analyst at Natixis SA in Paris, said before the results of the
new EBA tests were released. “Their real problem is liquidity
rather than solvency.”  The test results may do little to alleviate concern that
the banks still face funding constraints, which was among the
reasons for a  Standard & Poor’s  warning this week that France’s
AAA credit rating risks being downgraded, along with the debt of
14 other euro nations. S&P late yesterday placed ratings of BNP
Paribas,  Societe Generale (GLE) , Credit Agricole and BPCE on watch for
a possible downgrade.  Europe’s banks will need 114.7 billion euros in new capital
to reach a 9 percent core Tier 1 capital ratio by mid-2012,
after marking their sovereign bonds to market, according to the
EBA’s report today. That’s more than the 106 billion-euro
estimate in October. German banks need 13.1 billion euros and
Italian banks 15.4 billion euros in core tier 1 capital, the EBA
estimated.  ‘Own Means’  BPCE’s capital gap estimate was raised to 3.7 billion euros
from 3.4 billion euros in October. BNP Paribas’s was lowered to
1.5 billion euros from 2.1 billion euros, while Societe
Generale’s was cut to 2.1 billion euros from 3.3 billion euros.
Credit Agricole was judged again to not need more capital.  BPCE, the owner of  Natixis SA (KN) , said in an e-mailed
statement that it will comply with the EBA’s capital
requirements by mid 2012. Societe Generale reiterated that it
can comply with EBA’s capital goals “through its own means,
without tapping private investors or public funds.” BNP Paribas
spokeswoman Carine Lauru said the bank can meet the EBA target
without raising new capital from investors. Stephanie Ozenne, a
spokeswoman at Credit Agricole, couldn’t immediately be reached.  France’s four largest banks had cumulated net income of
2.43 billion euros in the third quarter, with all of them
remaining profitable even after absorbing about 4.3 billion
euros of pretax losses on their Greek sovereign-debt holdings.  “Questions about French banks’ health have become
fashionable in some financial centers,” Bank of France Governor
 Christian Noyer  said Dec. 6. “As their supervisor, I can tell
you that they’re solid.”  Liquidity Concerns  Still, the banks’ external debt amounts to about 104
percent of France’s gross domestic product, with about 60
percent being short-term, “implying sizable external
refinancing needs for the French banking sector in 2012,” S&P
estimated Dec. 5.  “Liquidity concerns and the weakening asset quality of
French banks’ securities and loan portfolios could, in our view,
increase the risk of the need for additional capital injections
by the state or similar interventions,” S&P said.  European lenders got financial support today from the
 European Central Bank , which coupled an  interest rate  cut with a
pledge to offer banks unlimited cash for three years as part of
measures to avoid a liquidity crisis. The ECB, however, damped
speculation that it would buy more sovereign debt in the
secondary market, pulling down bank shares.  Shares Fall  BNP Paribas tumbled 5.7 percent to 31.11 euros in Paris,
Societe Generale slid 4.5 percent to 19.10 euros and Credit
Agricole fell 4.3 percent to 4.61 euros. BNP Paribas has  fallen (BNP) 
35 percent this year, Societe Generale 53 percent and Credit
Agricole 52 percent. That compares with a 33 percent drop in the
46-company  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index. (BEBANKS)   Eight European banks failed the initial European Union
stress tests in July. The exercise was criticized for failing to
include writedowns on sovereign debt held to maturity.  In October, European lenders were asked to raise money on
their own and only seek aid from national and European
authorities if their efforts fail. The updated figures take into
account sovereign holdings through the end of September, rather
than the October estimates, which used June data.  Firms are trying to hit the 9 percent core capital target
by adjusting risk-weightings, limiting dividends, retaining
earnings, reducing loans and selling assets.  No Dividend  BNP Paribas,  France ’s biggest bank, cut 8.3 billion euros
of Italian government debt from its banking-book holdings
between June and October, the bank said Nov. 3. It reduced its
total banking-book sovereign debt portfolio by 23 percent to
81.5 billion euros in the period.  Societe Generale, France’s second-largest bank, cut its
banking-book sovereign holdings on  Greece ,  Italy , Ireland,
 Portugal  and  Spain  to 3.4 billion euros at the end of October
from 5.6 billion euros in June, it said Nov. 8. The 147-year-old
firm also last month scrapped its 2011 dividend, the first time
it has done that since its 1987 privatization.  “The priority in these times of uncertainty is to enter
2012 with the maximum of force and muscles,” Chief Executive
Officer  Frederic Oudea , 48, told reporters on Nov. 8.  BNP Paribas and Societe Generale are racing to shrink their
balance sheets, with the two companies announcing in September
steps to trim a combined 300 billion euros of assets by 2013.  Shrinking Operations  “The deleveraging is a response linked more to their
liquidity stress,” said  Pierre Flabbee , an analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets.  Societe Generale cut the liquidity needs of its corporate-
and investment-banking unit by 40 billion euros at the end of
September, it said last month. Societe Generale plans to raise
as much as 15 billion euros for its long-term funding next year
or about 50 percent less than this year.  BNP Paribas said it trimmed $20 billion of corporate- and
investment-banking U.S. dollar needs in the third quarter,
mostly through cuts in capital-markets businesses. It plans to
reduce an additional $20 billion in the current quarter from
capital-markets and financing operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  