-- 
P&G, Colgate Fined by France in $484 Million Detergent Cartel

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-12-08T10:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/french-competition-authority-issues-484-million-in-cartel-fines.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , Colgate-
Palmolive Co. and  Henkel KGaA (HEN3)  were fined 361.3 million euros
($464 million) by French antitrust regulators for fixing the
price of laundry soap.  P&G, the maker of Ariel washing powder, was fined 233.6
million euros and Colgate must pay 35.4 million euros for
colluding with others to set prices for detergent from 1997-
2004, the French regulator said in a statement on its website.
Henkel, the German maker of Persil, was fined 92.3 million
euros.  Unilever  wasn’t fined because it was the first company to
supply evidence to the French regulators.  The fine is the largest imposed by the French competition
authority this year in light of “the particular seriousness”
and the “undoubted” harm to the economy,  the regulator said
today . It is the third-biggest fine total in the agency’s
history, behind 534 million euros in fines against mobile-phone
operators in 2005 and last year’s 384.9 million-euro package of
fines for banks over check-processing fees.  The French directors for the manufacturers, known by code
names like Hugues, Pierre, Louis and Christian, met as many as
four times a year at Paris-area hotels and restaurants to agree
on the prices and promotions they would offer retailers, the
regulator said today.  Price increases “were the subject of a common negotiation,
in order to preserve the positioning of the different brands,”
the regulator said, according to whether they were high-end or
lower on the scale.  P&G and Colgate weren’t immediately available for comment.  Henkel to Appeal  Henkel will appeal the ruling and said it cooperated with
the French investigation and the facts of the case were covered
by the European Union decision in April, according to a
statement today. Henkel said the fine will have no impact on its
financial targets for 2012 or on this year’s guidance.  Antitrust agencies across  Europe  have been investigating
cosmetics and detergent manufacturers over deals to fix or
increase prices. Unilever and P&G agreed in April to pay 315.2
million euros in fines to settle a European Union probe over an
agreement not to reduce prices when they reduced the size of
packaging for laundry detergent. In that case, Henkel was the
first to come forward and had its fine waived.  Last year,  Italy   fined  Unilever, P&G and 13 other companies
for coordinating price increases for cosmetics. Henkel was the
first to inform regulators of that cartel as well. German units
of Unilever, Henkel and Sara Lee were fined about 37 million
euros by that country’s cartel office in February 2008 for
fixing toothpaste and detergent prices.  Unilever said in a statement it was fully committed to
“respecting all applicable laws.” The company “reinforces and
enhances its internal competition law compliance procedures on
an ongoing basis,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net 
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  