-- 
Futuragene to Test Brazil Energy Tree That Grows 30% Faster

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-12-08T15:28:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/futuragene-to-test-brazil-energy-tree-that-grows-30-faster.html
Futuragene , a biotechnology company
owned by Brazilian pulp and paper maker  Suzano Papel e Celulose
SA (SUZB5) , is seeking regulatory approval for a genetically altered
tree that grows 30 percent faster.  Futuragene’s transgenic eucalyptus tree generates about 104
cubic meters (3,673 cubic feet) of wood a hectare a year
compared with an average 80 cubic meters for trees grown for
energy production in  Brazil , Anthony Andrade, vice president of
strategy and corporate development, said today in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo. Yields may vary by region, he said.  Futuragene uses bacteria to modify the genomes of trees and
energy crops to produce more biomass that may be burnt as fuel.
The new eucalyptus will help Suzano produce more pulp and energy
from the same area of forest, he said.  “This is a game-changer,” he said. “Our trees are
taller, thicker and faster-growing.”  The company, based in  London , will plant five farms each
covering 100 hectares (247 acres) by next quarter to prove to
Brazil’s  National Technical Commission on Biosecurity  they don’t
harm the environment or human health, he said.  The regulator, known as CTNBio, may approve commercial
planting in three years, according to Andrade, who previously
worked for Suzano and recommended  the purchase of Futuragene  in
July 2010.  Eucalyptus ‘Champion’  “Brazil is a champion of eucalyptus productivity,” Cesar
Augusto dos Reis, executive director of  Associacao Brasileira de
Produtores de Florestas Plantadas , Brazil’s forest association
that’s known as Abraflor, said in a telephone interview. “We’ve
reached a ceiling with productivity gains through selective
breeding. The next big step is biotechnology.”  The new eucalyptus will be particularly suited for an $800
million energy project Suzano plans for the northeast because it
grows fastest in the first couple of years, Andrade said.  Trees cultivated for power production are cut after 1 1/2
to 2 1/2 years compared with seven years for those grown to make
pulp and paper, Andrade said.  Futuragene, which is also carrying out field experiments in
the U.S. and  China , is working on a second generation of gene
sequences that would “boost yields further,” he said.  Brazilian eucalyptus grown for pulp produces 41 cubic
meters of wood a hectare a year, compared with about 10 cubic
meters for comparable hardwood species in the U.S., according to
an Abraflor  report .  Pellet Project  Suzano, which owns 310,000 hectares of eucalyptus
plantations, will build five plants that will process wood into
pellets by 2019 and sell it as fuel to European thermoelectric
facilities, Andre Dorf, president of its renewable energy arm
Suzano Energia Renovavel, said by phone on Sept. 30.  Suzano received a $1.2 million grant from Brazil’s Ministry
of Science of Technology to support Futuragene’s genetic
bioenergy program, the company said in a Nov. 21 statement
published on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  