-- 
Gas-Fracking Chemicals Detected in Wyoming Aquifer, EPA Says

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-12-08T20:50:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/gas-fracking-chemicals-detected-in-wyoming-aquifer-epa-says.html
The U.S.  Environmental Protection
Agency  said for the first time it found chemicals used in
extracting natural gas through hydraulic fracturing in a
drinking-water aquifer in west-central  Wyoming .  Samples taken from two deep water-monitoring wells near a
 gas field  in Pavillion, Wyoming, showed synthetic chemicals such
as glycols and alcohols “consistent with gas production and
hydraulic-fracturing fluids,” the agency said today in an e-
mailed statement.  The U.S. gets about one-third of its gas from fracturing,
or fracking, in which millions of gallons of chemically treated
water and sand are forced underground to break rock and let
trapped vapor flow. The findings give ammunition to
environmental groups, such as the  Natural Resources Defense
Council , that have said the drilling risks tainting drinking
water and needs stronger regulation.  “This is just evidence of why we need better rules,” Amy
Mall, senior policy analyst for the group in  Washington , said in
an interview. “It’s a game-changer. EPA experts and scientists
have recognized that there is real contamination, that there is
a real scientific basis for linking it to fracking.”  After complaints from residents of Pavillion, about 230
miles (370 kilometers) northeast of  Salt Lake City , the EPA
began investigating private drinking-water wells about three
years ago. Calgary-based  Encana Corp. (ECA) ,  Canada ’s largest natural-
gas producer, owns about 150 wells in Pavillion, according to
spokesman Doug Hock.  ‘Not Definitive’  “They’ve used terms like ‘likely,’” Hock said today in an
interview. “What they’ve come up with here is a probability.
It’s not a definitive conclusion.”  Synthetic chemicals discovered in the aquifer are just as
likely “the result of contamination from their own sampling,”
he said.  Industry representatives such as Aubrey McClendon, chairman
and chief executive officer of  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the most
active U.S. oil and natural-gas driller among well operators,
have said there haven’t been proven cases of fracking fluids
contaminating drinking water.  “Try not to be the 51st person to write a story about the
alleged contamination of somebody’s water well from fracking,”
McClendon said April 8 at the Society of American Business
Editors and Writers conference at  Southern Methodist University 
in  Dallas . “There have been some issues with drilling wells.
They don’t come from fracking.”  Deep Monitoring  In 2010, the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services
recommended that Pavillion residents use alternate sources of
water for drinking and cooking. While testing detected petroleum
hydrocarbons in wells and in groundwater, the agency at the time
said it couldn’t pinpoint the source of the contamination.  The EPA dug two deep monitoring wells into the aquifer and
found “compounds likely associated with gas-production
practices, including hydraulic fracturing,” according to
today’s statement. Levels of the chemicals in the deep wells are
“well above” acceptable standards under the Safe Drinking
Water Act, the agency said.  Fracking chemicals may have entered the aquifer through
faulty well construction, gaps in impermeable rock or fractures
created during drilling, the EPA said.  “There are various things that can go wrong, but it all
points to the fact that we need stronger rules,” Mall said.  ‘Poor Aquifer’  Encana has been providing drinking water to about 21
families in Pavillion since August, 2010, Hock said. Some
residents were already using outside water sources “because they
realize it’s a very poor aquifer,” he said.  Hock said he wasn’t sure if Encana used the synthetic
chemicals found in the aquifer when fracking wells in Pavillion.  “I don’t believe that we did,” Hock said. “I don’t know
for certain.”  Today’s draft findings are specific to Pavillion, where
fracking is occurring “in and below the drinking-water
aquifer” and close to water wells, the agency said. The
findings will be submitted to an independent scientific review
panel.  “Given the area’s complex geology and the proximity of
drinking water wells to ground water contamination, EPA is
concerned about the movement of contaminants within the aquifer
and the safety of drinking-water wells over time,” the agency
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  