-- 
Gazit Globe’s Gilson Says Israeli Competition Plan Is ‘Unwise’

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-12-08T11:30:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/gazit-globe-s-gilson-says-israeli-competition-plan-is-unwise-.html
Proposals by an Israeli government-
appointed committee on increasing competitiveness in the economy
are “unwise” and “seriously misguided,” Ronald Gilson, a
professor at  Columbia Law School  and  Stanford Law School , said
in an interview in Jerusalem.  Gilson and Yale Law School professor  Alan Schwartz 
represented Tel Aviv-traded  Gazit Globe Ltd. (GLOB)  and  Alony Hetz
Properties & Investments Ltd. (ALHE)  in hearings before the committee.
The companies are among those that will be affected by the
panel’s recommendations and chose to submit their objections to
the proposals.  Gilson’s findings relate to the committee’s recommendations
for the corporate governance of Israeli corporations organized
as pyramids. The panel said its recommendations will help to
strengthen the position of minority shareholders and encourage
activism of institutional investors.  A pyramid was defined by the committee as a chain of
companies or several chains, at the top of which there is a
joint controlling shareholder. Each company in the chain
controls the company directly below it, but doesn’t hold 100
percent of the equity.  On why the proposals are unnecessary:  “The committee’s recommendations are seriously misguided.
The recommendations ignore the ability of courts, especially the
new Israeli corporate court, to police self-interested
transactions.”  On the detrimental effect of the proposals on entrepreneurship:  “These recommendations not only are unwise. They would
materially deter entrepreneurs from creating Israeli
companies.”  On how the proposals may encourage entrepreneurs to locate in
other countries:  “No other advanced country imposes such costly and inapt
restrictions on the governance of public companies. An
entrepreneur with a choice -- most of them -- would locate in
more hospitable jurisdictions.”  On why the proposed rules aren’t needed:  “The usual methods of controlling self-dealing -- approval
by a majority of the minority and judicial review -- can
effectively deter these duty-of-loyalty violations. The ability
of the law to act is particularly strong in  Israel , which
recently created a special corporate court that can police
loyalty violations.”  On the ability of the Israeli legal system to cope with self-
dealing:  “The recommendations aren’t desirable because they operate
to eliminate a way of organizing business that’s commonplace in
the world. The better alternative is focusing on the potential
for these groups doing bad things, and the Israeli legal system
is perfectly capable of doing that.”  On the potential for harm to jobs and investment:  “The first response if the recommendations are adopted is
for companies to change where they incorporate. That constrains
one way in which the Israeli government can regulate companies.
If the government then moves to regulate the actual behavior of
companies, their response may be to move the activity, and that
is harmful, in terms of jobs and investment.”  On the possibility that the proposals may be politically
motivated:  “The puzzle I have with the recommendations is this
disconnect between what they say the problem is -- interested
transactions -- and the solution, which is to discriminate
against the form of organization. That’s a big mistake and it’s
a pretty obvious mistake. It leads me to speculate that this is
really about something else: That it is an effort to
discriminate against a business form, which because of political
or other reasons, the business form is associated with something
political that people don’t like, which would at least explain
what they are doing but wouldn’t justify it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 