-- 
Italy, Spain Lead Euro-Region Debt Slump on Bets ECB Won’t Raise Purchases

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-12-08T17:27:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/german-note-yields-five-basis-points-from-record-low-before-ecb-eu-meet.html
Italian 10-year bonds slid, leading a
slump in higher-yielding sovereign debt, as the  European Central
Bank  signaled it will stimulate bank lending rather than buying
more securities to stem the region’s financial woes.  Spanish 10-year yields climbed by the most since before the
euro was created in 1999 as ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the
central bank wouldn’t necessarily step up debt purchases. German
two-year note yields fell to a record low as the ECB cut its key
rate to an all-time low of 1 percent and Draghi said the central
bank will extend the lifetime and loosen collateral conditions
for its loans to banks.  Europe ’s leaders will convene in
Brussels today seeking agreement on ways to counter the crisis.  “What Draghi said today can be summed up in one sentence:
We do more than necessary for the banks, but not for
governments,” said Mohit Kumar, the head of European interest-
rate strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in  London . “The ball is still
in the politicians’ court, increasing pressure on EU leaders to
come up with longer-term solutions for the debt crisis. This
won’t bode well for periphery bonds.”  Italian 10-year yields rose 47 basis points, or 0.47
percentage point, to 6.46 percent at 5:14 p.m. London time, the
biggest gain since Nov. 9. The 4.75 percent securities maturing
in September 2021 fell 3.075, or 30.75 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,333) face amount, to 88.47. Two-year note yields climbed 58
basis points to 6.23 percent.  Yield Spreads  The additional yield investors receive for holding the 10-
year Italian securities instead of benchmark German bunds
increased 55 basis points to 444 basis points. The French-German
yield spread widened 23 basis points to 134 basis points.  Spanish  10-year yields climbed 38 basis points to 5.82
percent, the biggest one-day gain since at least 1993 when
Bloomberg began collecting the data. Two-year yields jumped 53
basis points, the most since February 2009, to 4.92 percent.  Draghi told reporters in  Frankfurt  today he was “kind of
surprised by the implicit meaning” that was given to his
comments last week when he said the ECB could follow faster
fiscal union with “other elements.” He ruled out lending
central bank resources to the  International Monetary Fund  for
the purpose of buying distressed euro nations’ debt.  “The ECB has a very important role, it has the role of the
guardian of stability,” Draghi said. Referring to the summit of
European leaders, he added that “the process is political” and
decisions are “in the hands of the leaders.”  No ‘Big Bang’  Standard & Poor’s  put the European Union’s AAA rating on
“creditwatch negative” yesterday after similar action on 15 of
the 17 euro nations, pending the outcome of the two-day summit
and action by lawmakers and central bankers to tackle the
“deepening political, financial, and monetary problems within
the euro zone.”  There is no “big-bang” solution to the euro area debt
crisis, and the summit to be held in Brussels later today and
tomorrow will be “one step” to ending the crisis, German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said in Marseille,  France .  Volatility on Italian and Spanish debt was the highest
among 24 developed nations tracked by Bloomberg today, according
to measures of 10-year bonds, two- and 10-year yield spreads and
credit-default swaps. Spanish 10-year yields moved 3.4 times
their 90-day average, the gauge showed.  Draghi “is very much saying that, regarding the bond-
buying program, they are not going to increase it
dramatically,” said Niels From, chief analyst at Nordea Bank AB
in Copenhagen. “The market wants to see more on Italy and
 Spain . The ultra-long liquidity should ease strains in the money
market and support” shorter-dated German securities.  German Yield Record  The German two-year  yield  fell two basis points to 0.29
percent after dropping to an all-time low 0.27 percent. The 10-
year bund yield dropped nine basis points to 2.02 percent.
Euribor futures gained in a sign investors are adding to bets
for lower borrowing costs. The implied yield on the December
2012 contract fell two basis points to 1.005 percent.  German bunds have handed investors a gain of 7.8 percent
this year, while Treasuries have returned 9.2 percent, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  