-- 
German Stocks Retreat After Draghi Damps Bond-Purchase Speculation

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-12-08T17:07:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/german-stocks-advance-before-ecb-meeting-deutsche-bank-gains.html
German stocks (UKX)  retreated for a third
day after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  denied he
had signaled the ECB will step up government-bond purchases in a
speech last week.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  lost more than 4
percent as the European Banking Authority said banks must raise
more capital than previously estimated.  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  led declines in carmakers.  Centrotherm
Photovoltaics AG (CTN)  jumped after Citigroup Inc. recommended buying
the stock.  The benchmark  DAX (DAX)  Index dropped 2 percent to 5,874.44 at
the close in Frankfurt. The gauge has lost 15 percent this year
amid mounting concern that policy makers are struggling to
contain the euro-area debt crisis. The broader HDAX Index also
fell 2 percent today.  “The market is being spooked by Draghi comments as bond
purchases have been instrumental and the only effective tool in
not only keeping periphery yields from rising but also in
bringing them down substantially especially during the past few
days,” said Markus Huber, head of German sales trading at ETX
Capital in  London .  Draghi said he did not necessarily signal that the ECB
would step up government-bond purchases last week when speaking
before lawmakers in Brussels. He told reporters in Frankfurt
today he was “kind of surprised by the implicit meaning” that
was given to his comments that the ECB could follow faster
fiscal union with “other elements.”  ‘Just One Step’  Separately, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said that there
is no “big-bang” solution to the debt crisis. The summit to be
held in Brussels later today and tomorrow will be “one step”
to ending the crisis, she added. Merkel was speaking in
Marseille, France.  Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank, Germany’s biggest banks,
lost 4.3 percent to 28.25 euros and 9.5 percent to 1.28 euros
respectively. Europe’s banks will need to raise 114.7 billion
euros ($152.7 billion) in fresh capital as part of measures
introduced in response to the crisis, the EBA said in a document
obtained by Bloomberg News. German banks need 13.1 billion
euros.  BMW tumbled 3.7 percent to 53.61 euros, while Daimler
slumped 3.5 percent to 32.82 euros. Carmakers posted the worst
performance in the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index today,
falling 3.4 percent.  Centrotherm surged 3.8 percent to 9.65 euros after
Citigroup initiated coverage of the renewable energy company
with a “buy” recommendation.  -- Editors: Srinivasan Sivabalan, Andrew Rummer  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  