-- 
German Banks Must Raise $17 Billion Capital After Bonds Fell, EBA Says

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-12-08T19:14:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/german-banks-must-raise-17-billion-capital-after-bonds-fell-eba-says.html
German banks, including  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , were told by the European Banking
Authority to raise more capital than previously estimated after
some sovereign bonds tumbled.  Germany’s banks must raise 13.1 billion euros ($17.4
billion) to reach a core Tier 1 capital ratio of 9 percent or
more based on data from the end of September, financial market
regulator BaFin and the Bundesbank said today. That’s more than
the 5.2 billion-euro estimate the EBA published in October,
which was based on June 30 data. Six of 13 banks tested must
raise capital.  European leaders are demanding banks increase reserves to
bolster confidence in the industry after financial firms agreed
to accept losses on Greek  government bonds . The total more than
doubled because of the change in the date the information was
collected, a “more precise” examination of trading book risks,
limitations on market value gains and losses for the debt of
euro-area countries, the regulators said.  “These results have to be seen in the context of the
current sovereign-bond market upheaval and the simultaneous
increase in capital demands,” Raimund Roeseler, head of banking
supervision at BaFin, said in the statement.  National regulators debated with the EBA over how much the
value of benchmark debt such as German bunds could be used to
compensate for writedowns on bonds from Southern European
countries such as Greece and  Italy , people with knowledge of the
matter said last month.  Deutsche Bank, Commerzbank  Deutsche Bank , Germany’s largest lender, must raise 3.2
billion euros while  Commerzbank  has to boost capital by 5.3
billion euros, according to the statement. Deutsche Bank was
previously told by the regulator that it needed about 1.2
billion euros, two people briefed on the matter said in October.
Commerzbank had said it needed 2.94 billion euros.  Deutsche Bank Chief Financial Officer  Stefan Krause  said in
a third-quarter earnings presentation on Oct. 25 that the lender
needs to fill an estimated capital gap of 2.8 billion euros with
earnings to reach a 9.1 percent core tier 1 level by mid-2012.
The lender, which did not explicitly disclose an amount for
capital needs in October, has said it doesn’t need to sell
shares or take state aid and can cut risk-weighted assets and
retain earnings.  Deutsche Bank said it can reach the EBA benchmark by the
end of the year and strengthen its capital further in 2012 after
making “significant progress” in the fourth quarter, which
will allow the company to maintain its “core” lending. The
bank’s capital requirement includes a 388 million-euro shortfall
related to sovereign risks in the European economic area, the
lender said in a statement on its website today.  Europe ’s Banks  Commerzbank reiterated that it doesn’t plan to seek state
aid and that measures announced in October to reduce as much as
30 billion euros of risk-weighted assets are “progressing
well.” The bank added that “the issue of equity capital
instruments is also an option.”  Europe’s banks will need to increase capital by 114.7
billion euros as part of measures introduced in response to the
euro area’s debt crisis, the EBA said today. The regulator
estimated in October that the region’s financial institutions
would need 106 billion euros.  Italian sovereign bonds handed investors a loss of 4.2
percent in the three months through September, while Portuguese
notes fell 1.1 percent and German bunds jumped 7.9 percent,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  ‘Chaotic Process’  German lenders have said the EBA’s test methods and timing
risk worsening Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis by sapping
investor confidence.  Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale, which saw its capital
requirement jump to 2.49 billion euros from an estimate of 660
million euros in October, said the EBA’s changes in its
calculations led to “highly contradictory figures” for the
bank.  Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen said yesterday that it had a
gap of 1.5 billion euros because the EBA didn’t recognize a plan
to convert a form of capital by the end of the year.  DZ Bank AG needs to raise 353 million euros,  Germany ’s
largest cooperative lender said in a statement today. WestLB AG,
a state-owned bank, said that while it was deemed to need 224
million euros, no plans are necessary “in consideration of the
ongoing restructuring process” of the company.  “The  stress test  hasn’t contributed to market
stabilization,”  Michael Kemmer , general manager of the BdB
Association of German banks, said today in an e-mailed
statement. “The lengthy and seemingly chaotic process has also
strengthened the impression that every result is possible.”  Banks are trying to hit the 9 percent measure of financial
strength by adjusting risk weightings, limiting dividends,
retaining earnings, reducing loans and selling assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  