-- 
Gilts Rise Amid Concern EU Will Struggle to Resolve Debt Crisis

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-12-08T12:09:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/gilts-rise-amid-concern-eu-will-struggle-to-resolve-debt-crisis.html
U.K. gilts advanced amid concern
euro-region leaders may struggle to quell the turmoil roiling
debt markets at a summit starting today in Brussels.  Two-year gilt yields fell to the lowest on record. The  Bank
of England  left its asset-buying target at 275 billion pounds
($432 billion) and  interest rates  at a record low 0.5 percent at
its meeting today, as expected by all the economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg. The  European Central Bank  will cut borrowing costs
today, a separate survey showed.  Gilts are “trading on the back of  Europe  rather than
independent U.K. action,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , a strategist
at Evolution Securities Ltd. in London. “I expect yields to
stay low and possibly test the lows again if the politicians
come up with less than the market has been hoping for.”  The benchmark 10-year gilt yield fell four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 2.20 percent at 12:01 p.m.  London 
time. The 3.75 percent security due September 2021 rose 0.34, or
3.4 pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 113.545. Two-year
note yields were two basis points lower at 0.36 percent after
reaching 0.345 percent, the lowest since at least 1992, when
Bloomberg began collecting the data.  Ten-year yields climbed five basis points and the pound
weakened 0.4 percent against the euro when the BOE met on Nov.
10 and kept its asset-purchase target unchanged after raising it
a month earlier.  Fine Tuning Policy  The central bank expects the latest round of quantitative
easing to be completed in February. Policy maker  Martin Weale 
said Nov. 25 there’s a “strong case” for more in the future.
Still, officials said in the record of their November meeting
that there is “little merit in attempting to fine-tune” policy
while the current program is underway.  No change “is pretty in line with market expectations,”
 Sam Hill , a fixed income strategist at  RBC Capital Markets  in
London, said before the decision. “The Bank of England’s bond-
purchase program should continue to support gilts. But the near-
term risk that might push gilt yields higher is going to be the
broader sentiment, given we have the ECB’s press conference in
the afternoon and the result of the summit on Friday.”  Gilts have returned 15 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. German debt gained 7.8 percent and
Treasuries made 9.2 percent.  The pound appreciated 0.2 percent today versus the euro to
85.19 pence. It has strengthened 6.1 percent against the 17-
member currency in the second half. Sterling was little changed
at $1.5717 today.  The pound has fallen 0.5 percent in the past month versus a
basket of nine developed-market currencies as measured by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The currency has
declined amid speculation the European woes are weighing on
British growth. The euro has dropped 1.4 percent in the same
period, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  