-- 
Gingrich House Ethics Complaint Echoes in Criticism Lodged Today

-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-12-08T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/gingrich-house-ethics-complaint-echoes-in-criticism-lodged-today.html
Newt Gingrich ’s network of businesses
and policy groups that laid the groundwork for his presidential
bid harken back to those that got him into ethics trouble and
led to the biggest monetary penalty imposed on a U.S. House
speaker.  The charges raised more than a decade ago revolved around
allegations that the former speaker improperly used tax-exempt
charitable and education organizations to advance partisan
political purposes. Today, government ethics advocates say the
former speaker used a tax-exempt public policy group to promote
his candidacy.  “He skates close to the edge,” said Susan Molinari, a
former New York Republican congresswoman and Gingrich ally who
voted for the 1997 House reprimand and now supports Republican
presidential competitor  Mitt Romney . Molinari said the former
speaker’s pre-campaign operations suggest he didn’t change
behavior after the House ethics scandal. If anything, she said,
“it flies in the face of chastened.”  John Feehery , a Republican strategist and former aide to
Republican House Speaker Dennis Hastert, who succeeded Gingrich,
said he doesn’t believe “Republicans are that disturbed by it.
It’s kind of entrepreneurship and ideas.”  R.C. Hammond, a Gingrich spokesman, declined to comment for
this story.  Bipartisan Reprimand  The Gingrich ethics probe came to a head on Jan. 21, 1997,
when the House  voted  395-28 to approve a settlement that
concluded Gingrich twice misled the House Committee on
Standards of Official Conduct’s investigative subcommittee and
required a $300,000 payment to recover some of the probe’s
costs.  In its final report, the bipartisan subcommittee  wrote  that
Gingrich’s use of the tax-exempt groups and communication with
the committee was either “intentional or it was reckless.
Neither choice reflects creditably on the House.”  “The violation does not represent only a single instance
of reckless conduct,” the report continued. “Over a number of
years and in a number of situations, Mr. Gingrich showed a
disregard and lack of respect for the standards of conduct that
applied to his activities.”  Republicans Back Reprimand  In the final tally, 196 Republicans supported the rebuke of
their own speaker, while 198 Democrats backed it. Twenty-six
Republicans and two Democrats opposed it.  Gingrich’s ethics case was revived by House Minority Leader
 Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat and former speaker who
served on the 1997 investigative panel. “I know a lot about
him,” she told the website Talking Points memo  In response, Gingrich said at a Dec. 5 news conference that
the House should retaliate if she violates confidentiality
rules, something Pelosi’s staff said she won’t do. “We turned
over 1 million pages of material,” Gingrich said. “We had a
huge report.”  The ethics investigation focused on a college
course, called “Renewing American Civilization,” that Gingrich 
launched in 1993 to spread his political messages to a wider
audience. He financed it with tax-deductible charitable 
donations, which are supposed to be used for activities that 
broadly benefit the public.  The Case History  In 1990, he’d conducted a similar program, a television
program called the “American Opportunities Workshop” that
espoused Republican ideas in an effort to recruit converts, the
ethics subcommittee report said.  Gingrich financed the television program with charitable
contributions through the Abraham Lincoln Opportunity
Foundation. That organization was founded by Howard “Bo”
Callaway, a Gingrich supporter, to help inner-city children. The
foundation was inactive and Callaway allowed Gingrich to revive
it for the purpose of financing the television program.  For the college course, Gingrich solicited funds from
backers of his political action committee, GOPAC, which was also
a vehicle for organizing the Republican campaign to retake
control of the House in 1994. The idea to teach a course arose
during a January 1993 meeting of GOPAC’s major donors.  According to the  ethics report , the college course’s theme
became the “main message of virtually every political and
campaign speech” Gingrich made.  A draft vision statement dated March 19, 1993 and written
by Gingrich said that renewing American civilization will
require a “new party system so we can defeat the Democratic
machine and transform American society into a more productive,
responsible, safe country.”  ‘The Only Way’  When asked about the course’s role in this movement,
Gingrich said it was “the only way to develop and send” the
message, according to the ethics report.  In another memo, written on March 29, 1993, Gingrich said
he wanted “Republican activists” committed to setting up
workshops built around the course and to open the party up to
“every citizen who wants to renew American civilization.”  The course was made available via television satellite
feeds and Republican groups, known as site hosts, were
responsible for recruiting participants. In May 1993, a letter
was sent with Gingrich’s signature to 1,000 college Republicans
promoting the course.  In September 1994, Ben Jones, a former Democratic
Representative who was challenging Gingrich’s re-election, filed
the House ethics complaint against a man who had once lodged
ethics charges that led Democratic House Speaker Jim Wright to
resign in 1989.  False Statements  The 1997 negotiated settlement consolidated three counts
into one that included two core allegations: that Gingrich
didn’t seek legal advice in advance about his use of non-profit
organizations and two statements he made to the committee that
were inaccurate.  Those statements came in a Dec. 8, 1994 letter, signed by
Gingrich, that said the course had no partisan, political
elements and that GOPAC wasn’t involved in the course and didn’t
receive any benefit from it. A separate letter, dated March 27,
1995, signed by his attorney after Gingrich’s approval, also
stated inaccurately that the course had no political, partisan
aspects to it.  In his settlement with the ethics investigative
subcommittee, Gingrich said the statements in both letters were
incorrect. “The facts in the letters that were inaccurate,
incomplete and unreliable were material to the committee’s
determination on how to proceed with the tax questions contained
in the complaints,” the  report  said.  `Partisan, Political Message’  In its conclusion, the committee said there was an effort
by Gingrich to “have the material appear to be non-partisan on
its face, yet serve as a partisan, political message for the
purpose of building the  Republican Party .”  In exchange for Gingrich’s admissions, the committee
dropped the other counts against him. The  Internal Revenue
Service  later ruled the two nonprofit organizations hadn’t acted
improperly under tax laws, a decision Gingrich today cites as
evidence that he was exonerated.  The ethics committee and IRS investigations were
“completely different things,” said Jeffrey Yablon, an
attorney at Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP in Washington
D.C., who represented one of the parties.  “The IRS investigation was not of Gingrich, it was of the
foundation,” Yablon said. “The Gingrich investigation was
really quite different. It was an investigation of Gingrich
personally and addressed different questions.”  IRS ‘Blinked’  The IRS “just blinked,” said Frances Hill, a  University
of Miami  law school professor.  “It was a signal that the IRS
didn’t intend to enforce, certainly if it involved people with
political power.”  Gingrich’s use of independent groups for political purposes
continued to draw criticism after he left the House.  In 2006, the former speaker founded American Solutions
Winning The Future, a tax-exempt political organization that
advocated offshore drilling and  tax cuts  and helped Gingrich
connect with local activists around the country as he paved the
way for his presidential run.  “This is kind of his M.O., this is the way he has run his
political career, to create a web of organizations through all
different IRS manifestations,” said Meredith McGehee, policy
director for the Campaign Legal Center, a nonpartisan group in
 Washington  that tracks campaign finance.  American Solutions  American Solutions said its mission was to create “the
next generation of solutions that will ensure that the  United
States  remains the safest, freest, and most prosperous country
in the world.”  Through the group, Gingrich was able to raise unlimited
amounts of money from corporations and individuals. Since 2005,
 Sheldon Adelson , chairman and CEO of the Las Vegas Sands Corp.,
contributed $7 million. Peabody Energy Corp. gave $800,000.
Devon Energy gave $500,0000. Adelson also gave $2,500 to
Gingrich’s presidential run.  American Solutions spent $51 million between Jan. 1, 2007
and Dec. 31, 2010. Almost $1 of every $2 spent, $24.5 million,
or 48 percent, went for fundraising. Another $7.8 million was
spent on travel, including $6.6 million to Moby Dick Airways, a
charter service that transported Gingrich to events.  American Solutions sought new supporters, promoted policies
and ideas helpful to Gingrich and kept his face and name before
the public as he was “making noise” about running in 2008,
said  Bill Allison , editorial director of the Sunlight Foundation
in Washington, a nonpartisan group that promotes government
ethics rules.  “He was able to show up in  Iowa , created this organization
as part of that process, and was able to raise an awful lot of
money through it,” Allison said.  Gingrich cut ties with American Solutions in May to run for
president. It went out of business in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net 
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net 
31 