-- 
Gingrich Surge Propels Him Over Romney in Early-Voting Florida

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-12-08T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/gingrich-surge-propels-him-over-romney-in-early-voting-florida.html
Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich ’s rise in the Republican presidential race includes a
13 percentage point lead over former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney in a poll in Florida, site of a crucial early primary
next month.  The  Quinnipiac University  poll also shows Gingrich running
almost as strong as Romney in matchups with President  Barack Obama  in Florida and two other important states in the general
election, Ohio and Pennsylvania.  Obama fared worse against both Republicans in Ohio than he
did in a similar “swing state” Quinnipiac poll a month
earlier, and in all three states more voters say the president
doesn’t deserve a second term than say he does.  Gingrich’s surge “is accompanied by a better showing among
independent voters” in a race against Obama, said  Peter Brown ,
assistant director of the Hamden, Connecticut-based polling
institute. “The media says the White House wants to run against
Gingrich because he will be easier to beat than Romney, but the
data is less clear today than it was last month.”  Boosted by well-received performances in candidate debates,
Gingrich has taken the lead in  national polls  of the Republican
race and  surveys in Iowa , where caucuses on Jan. 3 begin the
nomination process. Primaries in  New Hampshire  and  South
Carolina  then precede the vote in Florida on Jan. 31.  The Quinnipiac poll of registered Republican voters in
Florida shows Gingrich backed by 35 percent, Romney by 22
percent.  In Pennsylvania, Gingrich leads Romney 31 percent to 17
percent, and in  Ohio  the poll shows Gingrich with 36 percent
support to 18 percent for Romney.  Pennsylvania holds its primary on April 24; Ohio’s is on
June 12.  ‘Momentum’  Gingrich “is no longer just the flavor of the month since
his boomlet has now stretched from November into December, and
voting begins in  Iowa  in less than a month,” said Brown.
“Gingrich certainly has the momentum on his side and is peaking
at the right moment, but Romney has the edge in money and
organization.”  None of the other Republican candidates reached 10 percent
in any of the three states, including businessman  Herman Cain ,
who suspended his campaign on Dec. 3 amid allegations of sexual
indiscretions. The previous swing state poll, released Nov. 10,
found Cain ahead in  Florida  and Ohio and tied with Romney in
Pennsylvania.  The three states combine for 67 of the 270 electoral votes
needed to be elected president. Obama carried all of them in
2008.  Matchups With Obama  In its overall sample of registered voters, Quinnipiac’s
poll gives Gingrich and Romney a 1 percentage point lead over
Obama in Ohio, where the president led both a month earlier.  Romney led Obama by 3 points in Florida, the same as a
month ago. Gingrich trailed Obama by 2 points in the state; in
the previous survey he was behind by 3 points.  In Pennsylvania, Obama led Romney by 3 points and Gingrich
by 8 points. A month ago, he was ahead of Romney there by 1
point and Gingrich by 10 points.  In Florida, 51 percent of the entire sample said Obama
didn’t deserve re-election, while 44 percent said yes. In Ohio,
the figures were 53 percent no, 42 percent yes, and in
 Pennsylvania  they were 49 percent no, 47 percent yes.  The poll was taken Nov. 28-Dec. 5. The error margins for
the entire samples are plus-or-minus 2.8 percentage points in
Florida and 2.6 points in Ohio and Pennsylvania. In the
Republican samples, the error margins are 4.3 percentage points
in Florida, 4.4 points in Ohio and 4.1 points in Pennsylvania  The earlier survey was taken Oct. 31-Nov. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 