-- 
Gas, Nuclear Demand to Rise as Coal Is Dethroned, Exxon Says

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-12-08T17:49:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/global-energy-demand-to-rise-32-by-2040-on-population-growth-exxon-says.html
Global natural gas, oil and nuclear
consumption will rise 32 percent during the next three decades
as population growth drives fuel demand and environmental
restrictions reduce coal use for the first time since the 18th
century,  Exxon (XOM)  Mobil Corp. said.  India  will lead the growth as energy use there more than
doubles by 2040, Exxon said today in the  long-term outlook  it
publishes annually.  Africa ,  Latin America  and the  Middle East 
also will see increases in energy demand, while fuel consumption
will decline in the U.S. and  Europe , according to the forecast.  Nuclear power’s contribution to the world’s energy supply
will almost double by 2040, Irving, Texas-based Exxon said.
Natural-gas use will rise 62 percent, displacing coal as the
second-largest fuel supply behind crude oil. Coal consumption
will drop 6 percent, the first decline in demand for the fuel
since the start of the Industrial Revolution in the 1700s, said
William Colton, Exxon’s vice president of strategic planning.  “Coal has been the fastest growing major fuel in the world
over the past decade, and will continue to surprise to the
upside to power the world’s largest and fastest growing
economies,” Vic Svec, senior vice president of investor
relations at St Louis-based  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , the largest
U.S. coal producer said in an e-mail.  The base year for the demand estimates was 2010. Exxon
compiles the outlook annually to guide long-term investment
decisions.  Renewables Quadrupling  Demand for renewable energy will more than quadruple by
2040, the report said. Oil, gas and coal will comprise 78
percent of global fuel supplies in 2040, according to the
report. Biomass, hydroelectric and renewables such as wind and
solar will contribute 15 percent of supplies. Nuclear will meet
about 8 percent of demand.  Crude will continue to be the dominant source of
transportation fuels in 2040, accounting for 89 percent of the
market, according to the report.  “The scale of the challenge is enormous and requires an
integrated set of solutions and the pursuit of all economic
options,”  Rex Tillerson , Exxon’s chairman and chief executive
officer, said in the report.  Exxon employs a team of economists, analysts and engineers
that assemble the long-term world energy outlook every year. The
company has been compiling the forecast for more than 50 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  