-- 
GM Buys Batteries Less Volatile Than Volt’s for Spark Model

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-12-09T02:03:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/gm-seeks-out-batteries-less-volatile-than-volt-s-for-spark-model.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , maker of the
Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid that is the subject of a federal
safety probe, is moving to a less volatile battery chemistry for
its Chevy Spark electric car going on sale in 2013.  GM is using phosphate-based lithium ion batteries from
Waltham, Massachusetts-based  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE)  that are less
likely to burn than other lithium chemistry, including that used
in the Volt model introduced last year, said battery experts and
suppliers.  The move by GM and other carmakers to different battery
chemistry a year after the Volt and Nissan Motor Co.’s Leaf went
on sale highlights how quickly the technology is changing for
electric and gasoline-electric hybrid cars.  GM and other companies are engineering future models with
lithium phosphate technology partly because the batteries can be
safer and last longer, said James Hall, principal of consulting
company 2953 Analytics Inc. in Birmingham,  Michigan . Battery
makers weren’t ready to mass-produce them until recently.  “Lithium phosphate chemistry looks like it could be more
friendly in terms of heat management,” Hall said. “But it
stores less energy. There is a tremendous amount of new
discovery. This is new territory for lithium batteries.”  The Volt, which uses different technology, is being
investigated after three batteries caught fire since May
following government crash tests. The  National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration ’s probe isn’t centered on battery cell
chemistry, said Randy Fox, a spokesman for Detroit-based GM.  The probe is focused on pack design and any fix would
likely involve the pack, he said in a telephone interview.  Proven Production  GM chose A123’s battery for the Spark “based on their
performance to our packaging, performance, quality, cost and
safety specifications,” Fox later said in an e-mail. “We did
not select A123 solely on its battery chemistry.”  The automaker announced the deal with A123 in October,
about four months after the first Volt battery caught fire. A123
had placed a bid to supply batteries for the Volt, losing out to
 South Korea ’s  LG Chem Ltd. (051910) , said Andy Chu, vice president of
marketing for A123.  When GM and  Nissan  were taking bids for batteries for the
Volt and Leaf years ago, suppliers didn’t have proven production
for lithium phosphate technology. GM, Nissan and Palo, Alto,
California-based  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  instead chose batteries with
lithium metal oxide technology.  Flammable Electrolytes  Now suppliers are ready, and carmakers are starting to
choose lithium phosphate, said Jay Whitacre, assistant professor
in materials science at  Carnegie Mellon University  in
Pittsburgh.  All lithium ion batteries can catch fire because they have
flammable electrolytes in the pack, he said. Lithium batteries,
like gasoline, are combustible under certain conditions.
Lithium-ion batteries are safe, while some are less likely to
burn than others, he said.  Lithium batteries can burn if steel pierces the casing and
stays in contact with lithium. If the battery isn’t discharged
and handled properly, the temperature can begin to rise until
there is a fire.  GM developed protocols for handling the Volt battery after
the June fire that started the U.S. probe, the company has said.  Trade-Offs  There are trade-offs between the two technologies. While no
lithium ion batteries are fireproof, lithium metal oxide
batteries can catch fire more easily, Whitacre said. When they
get too hot, the ceramic structure that holds the oxygen
releases it. That oxygen can feed a blaze, Whitacre said.  NHTSA started its investigation after a Volt caught fire
three weeks after a side-impact crash test May 12 while parked
at a testing center in  Wisconsin . Volt battery packs were
damaged in three more tests in November, causing two fires,
NHTSA said Nov. 25. NHTSA isn’t investigating Nissan’s Leaf or
Tesla’s Roadster.  Manufacturing quality, as well as the design of the cells
and the pack that bundles them, play a big role in determining
how safe batteries are, said Menahem Anderman, founder and
president of Total Battery Consulting Inc., in Oregon House,
 California . There is no guarantee that any lithium ion batteries
will be completely safe, Anderman said in a phone interview.  Storing Less Energy  With phosphate, it’s more difficult for a fire to spread
from cell to cell, said Robert Kanode, CEO of  Valence Technology
Inc. (VLNC) , a lithium phosphate battery maker in Austin,  Texas .  The trade-off is that lithium phosphate batteries store
less energy and would have to be bigger, Kanode said. Carmakers
can get more range or better acceleration using batteries like
the Volt’s lithium manganese battery.  That’s one reason why Valance has focused on commercial
applications like  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  delivery trucks and
double-decker buses in  London , Kanode said. It’s easier to
package larger lithium phosphate batteries in those vehicles, he
said. If Valence made a battery for the Volt, it would be as
much as 10 percent larger than LG Chem’s battery pack.  In addition to the Spark, Fisker Automotive Inc. will use
lithium phosphate batteries for its Karma sports car.  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  is buying lithium phosphate batteries from A123
for its ActiveHybrid 5 and ActiveHybrid 3 models, the first of
which goes on sale in March, A123’s Chu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  