-- 
GM Said to Revive Partnership Discussions With Malaysia’s Proton Holdings

-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 
2011-12-08T09:03:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/gm-said-to-revive-partnership-discussions-with-malaysia-s-proton-holdings.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  has begun talks
with  Proton Holdings Bhd. (PROH) , Malaysia’s biggest automaker, to form
a manufacturing venture in the Southeast Asian country,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  The discussions revive negotiations that were scrapped in
2007, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the talks are confidential. The talks are preliminary and may
not lead to an agreement, they said.  An accord would help Detroit-based GM expand manufacturing
of cars for Southeast Asia beyond  Thailand , which is reeling
from its worst floods in almost 70 years. A deal may give Proton,
which has held unsuccessful alliance talks with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
and  Peugeot SA (UG) , access to GM technology that could help it boost
exports.  “What Proton has to offer is immediate availability of
production capacity,” said Alexander Chia, an analyst at RHB
Capital Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “GM has all its  Southeast Asia 
interests in Thailand right now and could be looking to spread
risk and expand into other markets.”  Chia upgraded Proton to “trading buy” and increased its
so-called fair value to 5 ringgit from 2.90 ringgit on Dec. 5.  Klaus-Peter Martin, a GM spokesman in  Detroit , declined to
comment. Izad Raya, head of group communications at Proton,
which owns sports-car maker  Lotus Group International Ltd. , said
the company doesn’t comment on speculation.  No Stake Purchase  GM isn’t interested in buying the controlling 43 percent
stake in Proton held by Malaysian sovereign wealth fund  Khazanah
Nasional Bhd ., the people said.  Proton shares jumped 45 percent over the two days to Dec. 5
after the Edge reported the state-owned asset manager was
preparing to auction its holdings. The stock gained as much as
4.2 percent today and was up 0.3 percent at 4.05 ringgit at
close of trade in Kuala Lumpur, while the benchmark FTSE Bursa
 Malaysia  KLCI Index dropped 0.7 percent.  The Malaysian government, which controls Proton through
Khazanah, has been seeking a partner for the carmaker since it
ended an alliance with Mitsubishi Motors Corp. in 2004.  Protons, driven by taxi drivers across Malaysia, are among
the cheapest cars sold in the country. The carmaker was set up
in 1983 by then-Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad.  DRB’s Interest  Auto and property group  DRB-Hicom Bhd. (DRB) , Naza Group and
Proton chairman Mohd Nadzmi Mohd Salleh have submitted separate
bids to Khazanah for Proton, Malaysia’s New Straits Times
newspaper reported this week, without saying where it obtained
the information.  DRB may make an offer with Volkswagen, the Star newspaper
reported today, citing an unnamed person familiar with the
matter. It already assembles vehicles for companies including
Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz and Honda Motor Co. and signed an
agreement last year to start manufacturing Volkswagen’s Passat
sedans at its Pekan plant.  DRB-Hicom Managing Director Mohd Khamil Jamil was overseas
and not available for comment when contacted by phone at his
office in  Kuala Lumpur  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  