-- 
Gold Lease Rate Slides to Lowest on Record as European Banks Seek Dollars

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-12-08T15:55:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/gold-lease-rate-slides-to-lowest-on-record-as-european-banks-seek-dollars.html
The interest rate for lending gold in
exchange for dollars plunged to the lowest on record this week
as European banks sought ways to secure the U.S. currency amid
the region’s debt crisis.  The  one-month  lease rate on gold fell to minus 0.57 percent
on Dec. 6, the lowest according to Bloomberg data going back to
January 1998. The rate, derived by subtracting the gold forward
offered rate from the London Interbank Offered Rate, was at
minus 0.56 percent today and compares with minus 0.23 percent at
the start of this year. A negative reading means banks have to
pay to have their gold deposits lent.  The rate at which London-based banks say they can borrow
for three months in dollars rose to the highest level in almost
2 1/2 years yesterday, even after the  Federal Reserve  and five
other central banks agreed on Nov. 30 to cut the cost of
providing dollar funding. Gold has climbed 21 percent in  London 
this year and reached a record $1,921.15 an ounce on Sept. 6 as
investors and central banks boosted holdings to protect wealth.  “European banks especially are having liquidity funding
problems, which does see a lot of lending of gold and that’s
putting downward pressure on lease rates,” Walter de Wet, head
of commodities research at Standard Bank Plc in London, said
today by phone. “Funding problems will continue for a while.”  The European Central Bank today cut  interest rates  by a
quarter percentage point to 1 percent, matching a record low, in
a bid to avoid a recession. It pledged for the first time to
offer banks unlimited cash for three years and loosened the
collateral rules it imposes when lending to financial
institutions.  European Leaders Meet  European leaders meet in Brussels today to devise a fifth
“comprehensive” solution in 19 months for a crisis that’s left
Germany and  France  facing the threat of losing their AAA rating
from  Standard & Poor’s .  The Libor for three-month dollar loans climbed to 0.54
percent yesterday, the highest level since July 6, 2009, and was
unchanged today, data from the British Bankers’ Association
show. The dollar Libor-OIS spread, a measure of bank reluctance
to lend to one another, was at 44.8 basis points, unchanged from
yesterday, when it reached the highest level since May 2009.  The one-month lease rate for the metal hasn’t been above
zero since May, and was as high as 2.7 percent in October 2008
and 9.9 percent in September 1999, the data show. It dropped in
the final quarter in seven of the previous eight years.  Gold  Bull Market   “It is quite typical of this time of year that banks look
to offload metal in an effort to reduce their balance sheet,”
 Edel Tully , an analyst at UBS AG in London, said today by phone.
“Clearly, there’s the added ingredient this year that certainly
some of it is related to funding. I wouldn’t expect that it’s
going to blow out considerably more from where we currently
are.”  Bullion is in the 11th year of a bull market as investors
sought to diversify away from equities and some currencies. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities rose 2.2 percent
as the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities fell 9 percent.
Treasuries returned 9.1 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index
shows.  Holdings in  exchange-traded products  backed by gold reached
an all-time high of 2,358.2 metric tons on Dec. 6, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s greater than the reserves of
all but four of the world’s central banks, which are expanding
holdings for the first time in a generation. The World Gold
Council forecast central-bank buying for the year may reach as
much as 450 tons, and UBS AG estimates purchases approaching
that level next year.  “The jewelry sector borrowing practically nothing, ample
physical supply out there at bullion banks, plus the liquidity
crunch in  Europe  are all playing into it for the moment,” Jon Nadler, an analyst at Kitco Inc. in  Montreal , said in an e-mail
yesterday. “Gold should be what is heavily in demand at times
such as these.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  