-- 
Extract Studies Options as $2.2 Billion China Takeover Looms

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-12-09T07:08:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/guangdong-nuclear-power-offers-994-million-for-kalahari-minerals-of-u-k-.html
Extract Resources Ltd. (EXT) , owner of the
world’s fourth-largest uranium deposit, is studying its options
as a A$2.2 billion ($2.2 billion) takeover bid from  China  looms
following a deal to buy its biggest shareholder.  Australian regulators have ruled that state-owned China
Guangdong Nuclear Power Group Co. must offer A$8.65 a share for
Perth-based Extract should the Chinese company’s 632 million-
pound ($988 million) bid for Kalahari Minerals Plc succeed
because of Kalahari’s 43 percent stake in Extract. Extract,
owner of the Husab deposit in  Namibia , rose as much as 5.7
percent to A$8.55 in Sydney trading.  Extract’s independent directors “are working carefully to
assess the details of the proposed offer and will consider all
available alternatives for maximizing  shareholder value ,” Chief
Executive Officer Jonathan Leslie said in an e-mailed statement.
The bid “clearly demonstrates the strategic nature of Husab as
a tier-one asset as well as confidence in the long-term
fundamentals of the uranium industry.”  China is pursuing new sources of the fuel to feed rising
demand for atomic power.  Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s third-
biggest mining company and owner of the Rossing mine adjacent to
Extract’s Husab, is unlikely to make a rival bid, BMO Capital
Markets said.  “It’s difficult to see anyone else coming in to counter
bid for Kalahari given the friendly nature of the offer and the
relatively tightly held shareholder base of Extract and Kalahari
combined,” Edward Sterck, a London-based analyst at BMO who has
a “market perform” rating on Extract, said by phone.  Full Bid  Extract rose 4.7 percent to A$8.47 at the close, compared
with a 1.8 percent drop in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index. A
full takeover bid for the company will be triggered should
Guangdong Nuclear get a 50 percent stake in Kalahari, according
to yesterday’s statement on the bid.  “ Rio (RIO)  Tinto is unlikely to come in with a direct counter
bid to Guangdong Nuclear because they may be expecting to be
part of development plans anyway,” Sterck said. Rio owns 14
percent of Extract and 11.5 percent of Kalahari, according to
data calculated by Bloomberg. “Kalahari shareholders will
probably view the offer favorably given broader market
conditions.”  Kalahari  advanced (KAH)  3.2 percent to 242 pence in London
yesterday. Guangdong Nuclear offered 243.55 pence a share for
London-based Kalahari in a deal recommended by the target’s
directors, according to the statement. APAC Resources Ltd., with
a 14 percent stake, and Itochu Corp., with 13 percent, are
Kalahari’s biggest shareholders.  Kalahari Directors  “If you look at other recent transactions in the market,
it’s not necessarily the greatest price in the world,” APAC
Chief Executive Officer Andrew Ferguson said by phone today in
 Hong Kong . The company will take its time to evaluate the offer,
he said.  The Kalahari offer is conditional on Guangdong Nuclear
getting acceptances of more than 50 percent. The offer is at a
16 percent premium to the average price for six months prior to
March 4, the last day prior to the first announcement by
Guangdong Nuclear of a possible offer for Kalahari, it said.  Kalahari directors, who hold about 2.2 percent of the stock,
are to recommend the deal, and Guangdong Nuclear has secured
non-binding letters of intent for a further 3.9 percent stake.  Rossing Mine  Rio’s Rossing mine is the third-biggest producer of uranium,
accounting for about six percent of global supply, according to
World Nuclear Association figures. Husab is about 7 kilometers
(4.4 miles) from Rossing and 30 kilometers from  Paladin Energy
Ltd. (PDN) ’s Langer Heinrich project.  Extract in February said it was in talks with London-based
Rio about merging the companies’ uranium projects in the African
nation. Extract also said at the time it was talking to Kalahari
“to explore various options that might simplify the Extract
Kalahari shareholding structure.”  Extract shareholders should take no action and await
further guidance from the company’s independent directors, CEO
Leslie said. The company is seeking to develop Husab at a cost
of about $1.7 billion with a mine that may last for more than
two decades.  Extract raised its estimate of reserves at the project in
August by 37 percent to 320 million pounds of uranium oxide.  The offer price for Kalahari compares with an initial March
proposal by Guangdong Nuclear of 290 pence and a reduced May
offer of 270 pence that was barred by the U.K. Takeover Panel.
Kalahari said Nov. 10 that the companies were in talks for an
offer of 243.55 pence.  Chinese Acquisitions  The acquisition would be the second-biggest Chinese
takeover of a foreign mining company, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The nation began its first commercial nuclear
plant in 1994 and now has the highest number of atomic
facilities being built, data from the World Nuclear Association
show.  China, the world’s biggest energy user, has 13 generators
in commercial operation and 28 under construction, according to
the Ministry of Environmental Protection. China may have more
than 100 atomic reactors by 2020, it said in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net . 