-- 
Gun Law-Enforcement Operation Called ‘Reckless’ by Holder

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-12-08T22:00:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/gun-law-enforcement-operation-called-reckless-by-holder-1-.html
A U.S. law enforcement operation to
track guns shipped illegally to  Mexico  was “reckless” and the
tactics used weren’t approved by the Mexican government,
Attorney General Eric Holder told lawmakers.  Holder made the comments today in response to questions at
a House Judiciary Committee hearing about an operation called
Fast and Furious designed to link guns smuggled from the U.S. to
Mexican drug cartels. Holder repeatedly clashed with Republican
lawmakers, who faulted his oversight of the Justice Department.  The operation, which Holder said shouldn’t have gone
forward, was run by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and
Explosives, part of the Justice Department.  Representative Ted Poe, a Texas Republican, asked Holder if
the gun operation was reckless.  “Reckless, yeah, I’d probably agree with that,” Holder
said. “It was done inappropriately and has had tragic
consequences.”  Under questioning from lawmakers, Holder said he has no
plans to resign. Holder said he didn’t know about the tactics
used in the operation until it became public this year.
Representative Joe Walsh, an Illinois Republican, and 39 of his
colleagues last month called for Holder’s resignation.  The  Justice Department ’s inspector general is investigating
the operation at Holder’s request.  Impeachment  Two of about 2,000 guns that ATF allowed to be carried away
were found at the scene of the December 2010 murder of U.S.
Border Patrol agent Brian Terry in  Arizona , according to a
congressional report.  Representative Jim Sensenbrenner, a Wisconsin Republican,
said at the hearing there could be an impeachment if “we don’t
get to the bottom of this.” He didn’t specify who might be
impeached.  Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican,
compared Holder’s responses to those of former Attorney General
 John Mitchell , who served prison time for his role in the
Watergate coverup.  Paraphrasing Army counsel Joseph Welch’s rebuttal of
Senator Joseph McCarthy, Holder said, “Have you no shame?”  Issa, who as chairman of the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee is conducting his own probe of the gun
operation, repeated the words back to Holder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  