-- 
Gynecologists Unfazed as Birth Control Clot Concerns Resurface at FDA

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-12-08T23:33:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/gynecologists-unfazed-as-birth-control-clot-concerns-resurface-at-fda.html
Undeterred by evidence that newer
birth control pills such as  Bayer AG’s  Yasmin may carry more
risk of dangerous blood clots, top doctors say they still plan
to prescribe them.  Yasmin, introduced in 2001, and other contraceptives
containing the hormone drospirenone have been the focus of
lawsuits and studies that differ in conclusions about the risk.
Advisers to the Food and Drug Administration meeting today to
review the science, voted that the drugs’ prescribing label be
changed to better reflect the danger of getting a blood clot.
The panel also said the pills’ benefits outweigh the risks.  Many clinicians aren’t convinced the newer pills pose more
risk. Bloomberg News surveyed nine doctors at prominent medical
centers and clinics and all said the evidence isn’t conclusive
or worrisome enough to stop using the pills.  So far, the clotting danger “is so rare it’s clinically
not that important,” said Robert Barbieri, a professor of
obstetrics, gynecology and reproductive biology at  Harvard
Medical School  in  Boston . Patients worry about the increase in
risk as a result of news reports, he said; when he explains the
numbers, they relax.  “A lot of people come in and say, ‘I love this pill and
would prefer not to come off it,’” Barbieri said by telephone.
“They understand it’s a slight risk but not a huge one.”  Blood clots are a known side effect of all  birth control
pills  since they hit the market 50 years ago. The newest
generation may raise the risk, the  FDA  said in a study released
October 27. That  report  and others, though, may not be
conclusive, the FDA has said.  10 in 10,000  The  agency’s analysis  suggests the real chance of a woman
having a clot remains small, Barbieri said. According to the
report, 10 in 10,000 women on the new drugs experience a clot
compared with about 7 in 10,000 on the older pills. To prevent
just one clot, 2,000 women would have to switch from Yasmin, Yaz
or their generic versions, Barbieri said.  The FDA study didn’t figure in the effects of other risk
factors, including body weight and smoking, several doctors
said.  A  Dutch study  published in 2009 found that birth control
pills containing drospirenone was associated with a 6.3-fold
higher risk of blood clots compared with a 3.6-fold jump linked
to an older contraceptive. Two studies published this year also
found an increased risk.  Those reports, though, contradict research funded by
Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer, which found no added risk from
its products, the company has said.  $1.5 Billion in Sales  Bayer’s Yaz and Yasmin generated $1.5 billion  in sales  for
the drugmaker last year as its second-best selling product, less
than the $1.8 billion it had in 2009.  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  introduced a generic version of Yaz in May 2010.  Yaz, approved for sale in the U.S. in 2006, has a lower
dose of estradiol than Yasmin, cleared in 2001, and the pills
are taken on a different schedule. They are among a group of
pills introduced since 2001 that combine drospirenone, a
synthetic version of the female hormone progesterone, with
estradiol, a form of the hormone estrogen.  As the conflict over the worth of the research data plays
out in the U.S., Bayer faces more than 10,000 lawsuits over
injuries allegedly caused by the pills. Lawyers cite FDA reports
on at least 50 deaths of those on the drugs from 2004 to 2008.  The first trials are scheduled for next month in federal
court in  Illinois  and state court in Philadelphia.  Legal Costs  The financial impact from legal costs outweighs the
potential loss of sales because most revenue from the Bayer
products comes from outside the U.S., where the controversy has
generated the most attention, said Peter Spengler, an analyst
with DZ Bank AG Deutsche Zentral in  Frankfurt .  “The legal costs and potential payments to patients or
family members are much more severe or higher than the potential
loss of sales in the U.S.,” he said in a telephone interview.
Of a projected 1.06 billion euros ($1.42 billion) in 2011
worldwide sales of Yaz and Yasmin, only 160 million euros of it
come from the U.S., Spengler said.  The most widely used pill containing estrogen and a
progestin is Dublin-based  Warner Chilcott (WCRX) ’s Loestrin, according
to data supplied by  IMS Health Inc ., a Norwalk, Connecticut-
based industry research company. Loestrin, had 9.9 percent of
that market share followed by  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) ’s
Trinessa with  6.7 percent and Yaz with 6.5 percent.  Yaz and Yasmin copies from Israel-based Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. make up 6.2 and 3.7 of the market.  FDA advisers will assess risks and benefits of  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ’s birth-control patch Ortho Evra  on Dec. 9 . An FDA staff
report released this week also said that more research is needed
to determine whether the product is linked to an increased risk
of blood clots.  Patient Preferences  Doctors said some women prefer the new drugs over older
pills because they help control acne and reduce  premenstrual
dysphoric disorder , a condition linked with emotional and
physical disturbances. Some patients also find older
contraceptives may cause weight gains and mood swings, said
Sarah Pentlicky, a family planning fellow at the  University of
Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia.  Changing the dose of hormones by switching to new-
generation pills such as Yaz or Yasmin can help, she said.  Mixed results released over the last several years have
made a lot of women confused, said Steven R. Goldstein,
professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the New York
University School of Medicine.  “Because of all the publicity, without reading the fine
print, women who have been on this for two or three years
successfully are now scared to death,” Goldstein said in a
telephone interview.  Discussing Risk  Goldstein now brings up the subject with women on the
pills, explaining that all birth control pills carry some risk,
and if the new ones do have an increased risk, it is a small
increase, he said.  “People who have been on this successfully need not come
off,” he said. “We should not rush to any kind of judgment.”  On the other side of the debate are women’s health
advocates such as Cynthia Pearson, executive director of the
 National Women’s Health Network  in  Washington , who said pills
such as Yasmin should be taken of the market because there are
safer options available.  Birth control pills have generally gotten safer over the
decades -- until now, she said.  “The drospirenone-containing group of pills are a step in
the wrong direction,” Pearson said in a telephone interview.
“It is increasing the risk for no extra benefit.”  Inconclusive Data  Michelle Fox, assistant professor of obstetrics and
gynecology at  Johns Hopkins University  in Baltimore, said the
picture isn’t so clear. She advises women on the possibility of
higher risk, and continues to prescribe the drugs, she said.  “The data’s inconclusive,” Fox said. “It shows a slight
but persistent increase. There are a lot of problems with the
literature.”  Pregnancy  also increases the risk of a blood clot, by about
10 times that of a birth control pill, she said.  The inconclusiveness of the data “is a topic that FDA will
be discussing in detail with epidemiologists and clinical
experts on the advisory committee,” FDA spokeswoman Morgan
Liscinsky said in an e-mailed statement.  Given the public’s confusion, the questions the FDA is
asking are “pretty logical,” said Harvard’s Barbieri.  Vanessa Cullins, vice president for external medical affairs
at Planned Parenthood Federation of America, said that all of
the contraceptives should remain available so women can make
their own choices.  “The important issue is making sure providers and women
are aware of the increase in risk and are able to use this to
make an informed decision,” Cullins said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlanrgeth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 