-- 
IBM Gives Researchers Data on 2.4 Million Chemicals

-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 
2011-12-08T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/ibm-gives-u-s-health-researchers-data-on-2-4-million-chemicals.html
U.S. researchers gained access to a
database of 2.4 million chemical formulas and diagrams that
 International Business Machine Corp. (IBM)  culled from 24 years’ worth
of patent applications and medical journals.  The catalogue of compounds will be housed at the  National
Institutes of Health  in Bethesda,  Maryland . Scientists can use
the data to identify new candidates for drug development or new
uses for existing drugs.  “The applications are very wide reaching, from life
sciences to chemicals, petroleum, to food, to health,” said
Chris Moore, a partner and vice president in Armonk,  New York- 
based IBM’s global life sciences division, in a telephone
interview.  The NIH has made development of drugs for rare diseases
such as sickle cell anemia a priority since  Francis Collins 
became director of the $31 billion research agency in 2009.
Collins has asked Congress to create a new institute for  drug
development  and pressed manufacturers to open catalogs of
abandoned compounds.  IBM, the world’s biggest computer-services provider,
created the database by “Watson-type technology,” Moore said,
referring to the supercomputer that beat human competitors on
the game show ‘Jeopardy.’ The data was extracted from about 4.7
million U.S., European and United Nations patents and 11 million
biomedical journal abstracts from 1976 to 2000.  Researchers can search the database for free. IBM plans to
sell a product that will produce more sophisticated analysis of
the database that can tell customers who is conducting research
on specific therapies, Moore said. He wouldn’t disclose the
price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  