-- 
IBM to Buy DemandTec for $440 Million to Add Consumer Tools

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   C e c i l e   D a u r a t
-- 
2011-12-08T21:22:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/ibm-buys-demandtec-for-440-million-to-add-consumer-buying-trend-tools.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the biggest computer services provider, agreed to buy
 DemandTec Inc. (DMAN)  for $440 million, adding Internet-based tools to
help businesses adjust promotions based on buying patterns.  The all-cash transaction amounts to $13.20 a share, and is
expected to close in the first quarter of 2012, Armonk, New
York-based IBM said today in a statement. That’s 57 percent
higher than DemandTec’s closing price yesterday. IBM said last
year it plans to spend about $20 billion on acquisitions through
2015, as it expands offerings to business customers.  The purchase is IBM’s biggest since the takeover of
analytics-technology provider Netezza Corp. last year for about
$1.7 billion. DemandTec will extend IBM’s Smarter Commerce
initiative, allowing companies to quickly adjust prices,
promotions and other marketing efforts by analyzing online and
in-store buying trends.  “DemandTec assets could be a good fit,”  Mark Moskowitz ,
an analyst at JPMorgan & Chase Co. with an “overweight” rating
on IBM shares, said in a note to clients today. “DemandTec is
another example of IBM finding quality assets.”  IBM fell 1.3 percent to $191.58 at the close in New York.
DemandTec jumped 56 percent to $13.15.  IBM is paying a premium of 72 percent compared with the 20-
day trading average price before the announcement. The average
premium of 52 acquisitions of decision-support software
companies in the U.S. was 45 percent in the past five years.  DemandTec, based in  San Mateo , California, employs more
than 350 people and has about 450 customers worldwide, including
Best Buy Co., ConAgra Foods Inc. and Target Corp.  The overall market for Smarter Commerce software is worth
$20 billion, IBM estimates. The company spent $2.5 billion on
three Internet commerce acquisitions last year, buying Sterling
Commerce, Coremetrics Inc. and Unica Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Daurat in Wilmington at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Miller at   kmiller@bloomberg.net  