-- 
Libya Invites U.K. Police to Probe ’88 Lockerbie Bombing, Fletcher Killing

-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-12-09T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/libya-invites-british-police-to-probe-lockerbie-bombing-fletcher-killing.html
Libya agreed to invite British police
officers to Tripoli to investigate the 1988 Lockerbie bombing
and the killing of  London  police officer Yvonne Fletcher in
1984, said a U.K. Foreign Office minister, Alistair Burt.  Burt, the minister for the  Middle East  and North Africa,
said in an interview yesterday that Interior Minister Fawzy
Abdul Aal told him Libya agreed “to the early return of the
Dumfries and Galloway police in relation to Lockerbie,”
referring to the local force supervising the investigation of
the attack on a Pan Am airliner over the Scottish town.  Officials in the government that replaced the regime of the
late  Muammar Qaddafi  had stalled over U.K. requests to send
officers to continue the Lockerbie inquiry, over which doubts
lingered about the conviction of Libyan Abdel Basset al-Megrahi
for the killing of 270 passengers and townspeople. Abdul Aal
said last month that  Libya ’s new government may conduct its own
investigation into “the truth” about the bombing if any
previously unseen documents on the case are found.  No one has been convicted for the fatal attack on Fletcher,
who was among those fired on from the Libyan Embassy during an
anti-Qaddafi protest. Invitations to travel to Libya and
interview diplomats stationed at the embassy during the shooting
will also be extended to officers from London’s Metropolitan
Police, said Burt. A Libyan who was among three potential
suspects in the case was found dead in August after Qaddafi’s
fall, the U.K.’s Daily Telegraph reported.  Preparing for Elections  Abdul Aal was sworn in as part of the 24-strong Libyan
cabinet, picked by the ruling National Transitional Council, on
Dec. 4. The cabinet is tasked with centralizing political and
military authority in the country as it prepares for elections,
due to be held in June. Clashes in Tripoli this week between
militias highlight the difficulties it is facing.  “This is a new government, I think they have a lot on
their plate,” Burt said. “People are realistic. They know this
will take time. But the omens are good.”  Fletcher’s killing and the failure of Libya to cooperate
in the investigation led to Libyan diplomats being expelled by
the U.K. government.  No date has been given for when the invitations to police
will be issued, though the British government expects this to
happen soon, according to Burt.  “We are very keen that the Metropolitan Police should
return to continue their investigation,” Burt said. “They will
be allowed to return, I have no doubt about this.”  Scottish investigators want to interview al-Megrahi, who
was jailed for life by a Scottish court in 2001. A co-defendant,
Lamin Khalifah Fhimah, was found not guilty.  Al-Megrahi was returned to Libya on compassionate grounds
by the Scottish government in August 2009 after doctors
determined he was dying of prostate cancer. He returned home to
Libya that month to a hero’s welcome from Qaddafi and is living
in Tripoli.  Burt said the invitations to Libya are seen by Libyan
officials as a confidence-building measure to increase trust
with the international community.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Stephen  in Tripoli at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  