-- 
Indian Rupee Weakens on Speculation Importers Buying Dollars

-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-12-08T11:46:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/indian-rupee-weakens-on-speculation-importers-buying-dollars.html
India’s rupee touched a one-week low
on speculation importers are buying dollars before European
leaders gather to work out a plan aimed at preventing their debt
crisis from spreading.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  of shares fell after  Reserve
Bank  of India Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn indicated yesterday
the monetary authority will refrain from cutting the amount
lenders need to set aside as reserves.  Imports  rose 21.7 percent
in October from a year earlier, compared with 17.2 percent the
previous month, official data show.  The rupee declined 0.1 percent to 51.76 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched
51.9100 earlier, the weakest level since Nov. 30.  “If a deal is not reached in Europe this week, there would
be a major sell-off across markets, and so importers are
cautiously buying dollars today,” said Vikas Babu, a Mumbai-
based currency trader at state-owned  Andhra Bank . “There is
also the concern that capital inflows might slow.”  The  European Central Bank  may delve deeper into its toolbox
to stimulate bank lending and fight off a recession at a meeting
in Frankfurt today. Europe’s leaders will convene in Brussels
for talks to frame the fifth “comprehensive” solution in 19
months to a debt crisis that’s left Germany and France facing
the threat of losing their AAA ratings from  Standard & Poor’s .  Three-month offshore rupee forwards traded at 52.83 to the
dollar, compared with 52.57 yesterday. Forwards are agreements
to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable
contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  