-- 
Indonesia Pauses Rate Cuts As Rupiah’s Decline Revives Inflation Pressure

-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 
2011-12-08T09:28:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/indonesia-central-bank-pauses-interest-rate-cuts-to-assess-inflation-risk.html
Indonesia’s central bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged, pausing after cutting
borrowing costs in the previous two meetings to assess the
inflation risk as the rupiah falls.  Governor Darmin Nasution and his board kept the  reference
rate  at 6 percent,  Bank Indonesia  said in a statement in Jakarta
today. The decision was predicted by 17 of 22 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg News, with the rest predicting a quarter-
percentage-point cut.  The nation’s currency has slumped more than 5 percent in
the past three months, the third-worst performer in Asia,
threatening to push up imported inflation even as the protracted
European debt crisis hurts global growth. New Zealand and  South
Korea  also kept rates unchanged today, as the region’s policy
makers juggle the need to guard against price gains with
increasing pressure to protect their economies.  “The currency is still under pressure,” said Eric Alexander Sugandi, a Jakarta-based economist at Standard
Chartered Plc. who accurately predicted today’s decision. “If
BI continues to cut it will increase import costs and impact
investment.”  Still, the central bank may need to lower borrowing costs
further if the global slowdown continues next year and hurts
 Indonesia ’s economy, he said.  Today’s decision was based the central bank’s assessment of
risks the economy faces, it said in a statement today. The two
previous rate reductions are expected to provide stimulus to the
economy and Bank Indonesia will “continue to optimize the rate
cut momentum” to effectively boost growth, it said.  ‘Weak’ Rupiah  The rupiah was little changed at 9,050 a dollar as of 3:05
p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks compiled
by Bloomberg.  Bank Indonesia plans to boost “intervention” in the
market to prevent the rupiah becoming “too weak,” Nasution
said Nov. 30, a day after the currency reached a 17-month low.  Asian nations have either refrained from further rate
increases or reduced borrowing costs to shield their economies
from the threat of another global recession.  New Zealand  and South Korea followed similar decisions by
Malaysia and the  Philippines  to keep rates unchanged in recent
weeks, while  Thailand  on Nov. 30 cut rates for the first time in
more than two years.  Australia  this week made its first back-to-
back rate reductions since 2009, and  China  has reduced lenders’
reserve requirements for the first time since 2008.  Inflation Forecasts  In Indonesia, the central bank predicted earlier this month
inflation may accelerate to as much as 5 percent next year, even
after it said in November gross domestic product will expand 6.3
percent next year, less than its previous forecast of 6.7
percent.  Bank Indonesia expects economic growth this year of 6.5
percent. It said today growth will range from 6.3 percent to 6.7
percent in 2012, and 6.4 percent to 6.8 percent in 2013.  The global slowdown may hurt demand for credit in Indonesia,
said Jahja Setiaatmadja, president director of PT Bank Central
 Asia  in Jakarta. The lender expects lending growth of 22 percent
in 2012, from an estimated increase of as much as 30 percent
this year, Setiaatmadja yesterday.  Consumer prices in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy rose
4.15 percent last month from a year earlier, the least in 19
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  