-- 
Integrated Financial Fined $5.5 Million for Client-Money Breach

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-12-08T11:41:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/integrated-financial-fined-5-5-million-for-client-money-breach.html
Integrated Financial Arrangements Plc
was fined 3.5 million pounds ($5.5 million) for failing to
protect client money and separate it from the firm’s funds for
more than eight years.  The firm, which sells the wrap platform Transact, failed to
properly calculate client-money accounts between December 2001
and June 2010, so that there may have been shortfalls and the
accounts wouldn’t have been adequately protected if London-based
Integrated Financial went bankrupt, the Financial Services
Authority said today in a statement. The firm held 508 million
pounds in client money on average during that period.  The FSA said it would increase oversight of client-money
after the 2008 bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 
Lehman’s former U.K. unit, Lehman Brothers International Europe,
failed to segregate billions of dollars of client funds, leaving
creditors with competing claims that resulted in years of
litigation.  “Integrated Financial has committed a serious breach by
failing to comply with our client money rules for a significant
period of time,” Tracey McDermott, the FSA’s acting head of
enforcement, said. “Firms that hold client assets can expect to
receive more regulatory attention and should ensure they
continued to strengthen their management, oversight and controls
in this area.”  The firm also failed to have adequate systems to manage
client-money risks, the FSA said. None of Integrated Financial’s
clients lost money because of the breaches.  “Nevertheless, we are chastened,” Ian Taylor, Integrated
Financial’s chief executive officer, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We will work tirelessly to reassure our clients,
shareholders, staff and business partners that the problem is in
the past and we are now fully compliant.”  The firm received the regulator’s standard 30 percent
discount for settling early.  The regulator levied its largest fine, 33.3 million pounds,
against JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s London unit last year for client
money breaches. It fined Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. 1.12
million pounds earlier this year for similar offenses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  