-- 
IRS Commissioner Calls for Real-Time U.S. Tax Filing System

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-12-08T19:48:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/irs-commissioner-shulman-calls-for-real-time-tax-filing-system.html
Internal Revenue Service Commissioner
 Douglas Shulman  called today for development of a real-time tax
filing system that would enable the agency to collect 1099s, W-
2s and other documents before taxpayers file their full returns.  The early collection of documents would allow the IRS to
reject returns that didn’t match records before processing,
reducing burdens on the agency and on filers, Shulman said at a
public meeting at  IRS  headquarters in Washington.  Shulman spoke at what the IRS billed as the first of a
series of meetings to discuss long-term changes needed to set up
a real-time system.  In addition to making filing easier, a real-time system
“would significantly improve compliance,” Shulman said.  He said IRS computer operations have improved enough to
allow the agency to make fundamental changes in how taxes are
filed. In the upcoming filing season, Shulman said, the IRS
expects to process all returns on a 24-hour cycle, instead of a
weekly cycle.  Catching Up  Shulman said the IRS needs to catch up with consumers who
have become used to quick transactions with banks and other
financial institutions.  “I think the American people have a different kind of
expectation,” he said.  The changes Shulman mentioned would have implications for
the tax-preparation industry, including software makers such as
 Intuit Inc. (INTU)  of  Mountain View ,  California , and tax preparers
including  Kansas City , Missouri-based  H&R Block Inc. (HRB)  and  Jackson
Hewitt Tax Service Inc. (JTX)  of Parsippany,  New Jersey .  A real-time tax system “would require a significant
investment in infrastructure and the ripple effect of
implementing it would be far-reaching,” Kathy Pickering,
executive director of H&R Block’s Tax Institute, said in remarks
prepared for the meeting.  Pickering spoke on a panel of tax preparer groups that
included the Washington-based  American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants  and  National Association of Enrolled Agents ,
and the  National Association of Tax Preparers  of Appleton,
 Wisconsin .  Other panels represented regulators such as the Government
Accountability Office and consumer advocates.  ‘After the Fact’  The IRS currently operates on what is known as an after-
the-fact model of processing -- evaluating a tax return and
supporting documents only after a return has been filed. If IRS
personnel question a return, a tax filer must retrieve records
two years after the activity occurred that is subject to
possible taxation, Shulman said.  Many problems could be avoided if taxpayers could check
information in returns against data reported to the IRS by
employers and other income sources, he said.  Shulman had earlier spoken about a real-time filing program
in April, during a  speech  at the  National Press Club  in
 Washington .  The IRS is discussing the real-time tax-filing system as it
offers buyouts to 5,400 of its estimated 95,000 workers in
anticipation of a budget cut by Congress.  IRS Buyouts  After the meeting today, Shulman said about 1,000 employees
have accepted the buyout, which is about the level that had been
expected. The Obama administration has said that as many as
4,000 IRS jobs could be cut over the next year including some
that would reduce tax enforcement and collections.  Shulman declined to say if more buyouts are in the offing.  “Congress isn’t done with the budget yet,” Shulman said.
“We’re quite hopeful that we’ll end up with a good budget.”  IRS officials did not offer estimates of cost or length of
time needed to develop a real-time system.  Information about a real-time tax system distributed by the
agency at the meeting highlighted savings for taxpayers and the
government.  One handout said long-term benefits to the government would
include “billions in net revenue and cost savings resulting
from upfront quality checks on tax returns being filed with
IRS.”  Taxpayers would save millions of dollars in penalties and
interest and have millions of fewer contacts with the agency
under a real-time system, according to the IRS handout.  Panelists brought up numerous practical challenges such as
how to handle last-minute changes in law by Congress and how to
deal with mismatches of data and corrections to information
returns.  “This is going to take a while to get there,” Shulman
said.  Shulman said after the meeting that a major challenge for
the IRS with such a system will be to retrain many employees who
are used to the time-consuming process of analyzing returns
after filing. Such employees will need to be able to quickly
provide “world-class  customer service  on the front end,”
Shulman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  