-- 
Japan Machinery Orders Unexpectedly Slide on Strong Yen, Global Slowdown

-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-12-08T06:21:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/japan-machinery-orders-unexpectedly-slide-on-strong-yen-global-slowdown.html
Japan ’s  machinery orders  unexpectedly
fell for a second straight month in October, signaling that a
slowing global economy and the strong yen are prompting
companies to postpone investment.  Bookings, an indicator of  capital spending ,  decreased  6.9
percent from a month earlier, the Cabinet Office said in Tokyo
today, a larger decline than predicted by all 27 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Shares in machinery makers including  Fanuc Corp. (6954)  and  Tokyo
Electron Ltd. (8035)  fell after the report. The government said today
that exports in the first 20 days of November fell at the
fastest pace since May, adding to signs that Europe’s fiscal
crisis and a yen that rose to a postwar record on Oct. 31
against the dollar are weighing on demand.  “Nobody is really forecasting  Europe  will break up, but
corporate managers have to prepare for the worst,” said Takuji Okubo, chief Japan economist in Tokyo at Societe Generale SA.
“It’s understandable that they would like to delay large
capital investment decisions.”  The yen traded at 77.64 per dollar as of 3:15 p.m. in Tokyo
compared with its post World War II record of 75.35 and the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average slid 0.7 percent to 8,664.58.  The Nikkei newspaper reported that Group of 20 economies
were preparing a $600 billion International Monetary Fund
lending program for Europe. A Japanese government official
speaking on the condition of anonymity in accordance with
ministry policy said he hadn’t heard about any specific plans
for more lending.  Two-Month Slide  It was the first time machinery orders fell for two
consecutive months since Feb. 2010, an indication capital
expenditure could slow next year as Japan struggles to recover
from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami. Prime Minister
Yoshihiko Noda ordered a fourth extra budget last week, a step
unseen since postwar reconstruction.  Exports in the first 20 days of November fell 7.2 percent
from the same period a year earlier, the  Finance Ministry  said
in a report today.  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has said that
Europe’s debt crisis is the biggest risk for Japan’s economy.
Standard & Poor’s put 15 euro nations including Germany and
France on review for a possible downgrade this week and
indicated Nov. 24 that it could be preparing to lower Japan’s
sovereign grade.  ‘Challenges’  Moody’s Investors Service said today Japan may face “long-
term key challenges” to its  credit rating , already lowered in
August because of a swelling debt load. It said the outlook for
the nation’s Aa3 rating is stable.  The upper house of parliament ratified a third extra budget
worth 12.1 trillion yen ($156 billion) last month to help
rebuild coastal areas of northeastern Japan devastated by the
disaster. Two earlier packages were worth a total of 6 trillion
yen.  The yen trading close to a postwar high against the dollar
is prompting exporters including  Nissan Motor (7201)  Co. to consider
shifting production overseas. Nissan Chief Executive Officer
 Carlos Ghosn  told reporters last week that Japan’s second-
largest carmaker will gradually shift output abroad, saying,
“It’s difficult to make an investment in a country with no
return.”  Flooding in Thailand has disrupted the supply chains of
Japanese companies with operations in the southeast Asian
country. Honda Motor Co. and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  scrapped profit
forecasts after Thailand’s worst floods in nearly 70 years
halted production at factories.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  