-- 
Las Vegas Sees Japan Casinos as Diet Seeks Quake Relief: Retail

-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 
2011-12-08T09:34:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/japan-may-see-casinos-as-diet-seeks-quake-aid.html
Japan’s record earthquake may achieve
what Las Vegas magnate  Sheldon Adelson  has been trying to do for
years: Persuade the government to allow casinos.  Adelson, chief executive officer of  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) ,
has for at least half a decade sought to reverse a ban on the
gambling houses in the world’s third-biggest economy, only to be
blocked by Japanese legislators arguing casinos would fuel
organized crime and provide little benefit. Now, a group of 150
lawmakers plans to introduce a bill that could allow resorts
that combine slot machines and gambling tables with hotels,
shopping and restaurants.  Japanese casinos could emerge as a 3.4 trillion yen ($44
billion) industry, according to a 2009 study by Ryosaku Sawa, an
economics professor at Osaka University of Commerce. That would
provide an attractive source of  tax revenue  for a government
facing a 19 trillion yen reconstruction bill from the March 11
earthquake, on top of the world’s largest public  debt .  “It would be an engine for fiscal revival and job creation
that wouldn’t require raising taxes,” said Takeshi Iwaya, a
member of the group of legislators from six parties, including
the ruling Democrats and their main opposition Liberal
Democrats.  Issei Koga, who leads the group, said today that he hoped
to introduce the bill during the Diet session that begins next
month, because time had run out on advancing the proposal during
the current session, which ends tomorrow.  The Cards  “The liberalization of potentially Japan and  Taiwan  are on
the cards,” Lawrence Ho, chief executive officer of Macau
casino operator  Melco Crown (MPEL)  Entertainment Ltd. and son of
gambling billionaire  Stanley Ho , said in an interview yesterday.
He will be “open minded” about selling more stock in Melco
Crown, which listed in  Hong Kong  yesterday, to raise funds that
may be used to expand outside the Chinese city, he said.  Other casino operators are also betting that Japan will
overturn the ban.  “It’s a very attractive market,” said Steven Tight,
president for international development for Las Vegas-based
Caesars Entertainment Corp. “There just seems to be a very
strong affinity to that sort of entertainment.”  MGM Resorts International (MGM)  is also closely monitoring
Japan’s moves toward casino legalization, said Ed Bowers, the
Las Vegas-based company’s senior vice president for hospitality.
Nanami Kasasaki,  Genting Singapore Plc (GENS) ’s representative director
for Japan, said her company is paying attention too.  Pole Position  Adelson said he hopes all the talks he’s held with Japanese
government and business leaders will put Las Vegas Sands in pole
position, should the law pass.  “We’ve been lobbying there for years,” he said. “There’s
no doubt that we’re the leading candidate.”  Proponents point to  Singapore  as an example of how casinos
can generate cash without attracting the vice that some Japanese
associate with gambling.  Singapore’s Marina Bay Sands, opened in April 2010, two
months after Genting Singapore’s Resort World Sentosa, and the
city-state is already set to raise an estimated $1 billion in
gambling taxes this year, according to Richard Huang, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets. In Macau, the
government may collect $13 billion in taxes this year from its
34  casinos , he estimated.  Korea,  Philippines   The money generated by gambling in the two cities has
prompted countries across  Asia  to embrace the concept of Las
Vegas-style resorts. The Venetian Macao, operated by Adelson’s
Hong Kong-listed  Sands China Ltd. (1928) , generated more than $2.4
billion in revenue last year. Sands  China  has gained 40 percent
this year in Hong Kong trading while rival  Galaxy Entertainment
Group Ltd. (27)  has jumped 74 percent. Melco Crown is up 53 percent
in Nasdaq trading this year.  “There’s more momentum and greater optimism than there has
ever been in the past,” George Tanasijevich, chief executive
officer of Sands’ Singapore operation and Adelson’s
representative for Japan, said in a phone interview.  South Korea , which has casinos catering mostly for
foreigners, is making its own legislative push to permit the
development of casino resorts.  In the Philippines, Japanese pachinko company  Universal
Entertainment Corp. (6425) , the biggest shareholder in  Wynn Resorts
Ltd. (WYNN) , plans to build a $2.3 billion hotel and casino as part of
 Manila ’s Entertainment City project.  Yakuza Concern  Casinos in Japan would compete with existing forms of legal
gambling, including bicycle, motorboat, motorcycle and horse
races, along with pachinko -- a type of combination slot and
pinball machine -- and some soccer matches. Those pastimes
earned more than 25 trillion yen, or about $322 billion, last
year, according to a 2011 White Paper on Leisure published by
the nonprofit Japan Productivity Center.  Keiko Itokazu, an independent legislator, said she was
concerned that organized crime, known as the yakuza, would
exploit casinos for prostitution and selling drugs. “The yakuza
would certainly get involved.”  Takashi Kiso, head of Tokyo-based consulting firm
International Casino Institute Ltd., told lawmakers in November
that it would be a mistake to assume  Japan  would copy
Singapore’s success in controlling vice. Singapore’s gambling
resorts are isolated from the rest of the city. The city-state’s
small size and strict rule of law also make it easier for
authorities there to clamp down, he said.  Casinos may fail to deliver the expected level of economic
windfall for the country, according to William Thompson, a
professor at the University of Las Vegas, Nevada. The benefits
would depend on Japan’s ability to draw a large number of
gamblers from overseas.  “If they don’t get foreign gamblers, for the economy it’s
at best a zero and at worst a negative,” he said. “If the
gamblers are Japanese, the money is coming out of the Japanese
economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  