-- 
Japan Expands Rice Ban as Contamination Spreads

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-12-08T03:32:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/japan-plans-to-expand-contaminated-rice-ban.html
Japan  will extend a ban on rice
shipments from a third city in Fukushima prefecture after local
authorities found more tainted grain, deepening food-safety
concerns nine months after a nuclear disaster.  The ban will likely cover the Shibukawa area of Nihonmatsu
City, about 55 kilometers (34 miles) from the crippled Fukushima
nuclear plant, as rice samples from the area contained 780
becquerels per kilogram of radioactive cesium, said Shinji
Uchida at the grain division of the Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry and Fisheries. The maximum allowed by the government
for human consumption is 500 becquerels.  The discovery came after authorities increased rice testing
for cesium after tainted supplies were found in Fukushima City
and Date City. Some of the contaminated grain was sold to local
buyers after Fukushima Governor Yuhei Sato said in October that
rice produced in the prefecture was safe to eat.  “We may find more contaminated rice in other areas,”
Uchida said today by phone. “Because of the limited capacity
for testing, local authorities were unable to check every bag of
rice for contamination.”  The government allowed farmers in Fukushima prefecture to
start shipping rice in October as test results had shown no
samples that exceeded the official limit.  Fukushima City  The first case of rice contamination was discovered in
November when a farmer in Fukushima City voluntarily submitted
his rice for testing at a local agricultural organization. The
government conducted official testing on 3,217 rice samples from
growers in 17 prefectures by Nov. 17.  Japan banned rice shipments for the first time last month,
following the discovery of grain containing 630 becquerels per
kilogram of cesium in the Ohnami area of Fukushima City.  The restriction will have little impact on rice supply in
Japan as the ministry expects the grain stockpiled by producers
and distributors will increase 4.4 percent to 1.89 million tons
at the end of June 2012, the highest level in two years.  The harvest of food rice in Japan reached 8.13 million tons
this year, overwhelming Japanese demand of 8.05 million tons
expected for the year to June 30, 2012, the ministry said on Nov.
30. Good weather boosted grain production this year even after a
record earthquake and tsunami in March destroyed some paddy
fields in the nation’s northeast.  Fukushima prefecture was the fourth-largest rice producer
in Japan last year, representing about 5 percent of the harvest.
Japan exported 1,898 tons of rice in 2010, according to the
agriculture ministry.  Products including spinach, mushrooms, milk and beef were
contaminated with radiation as far as 360 kilometers from the
atomic station destroyed by the disaster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  