-- 
Japan May Introduce Carbon Tax to Curb Emissions as Nuclear Reactors Shut

-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 
2011-12-08T08:10:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/japan-may-introduce-carbon-tax-to-curb-greenhouse-gas-emissions.html
Japan  may introduce a carbon tax to
curb greenhouse gas emissions amid the increased use of fossil
fuels to generate power as nuclear reactors remain shut following
the Fukushima disaster, the government said.  Japan wants to start adding taxes on crude oil and
petroleum products as early as April, Environment Minister Goshi Hosono said yesterday at the United Nations-led climate talks in
Durban,  South Africa , according to the text of his speech faxed
by the ministry.  The government is preparing a tax-reform plan for the year
ending March 2013, to be announced tomorrow. Officials are
debating the inclusion of the carbon tax, Yusuke Inoue, a
ministry official in charge of environmental policy, said by
telephone today.  The government proposes to add taxes on coal, gaseous
hydrocarbons, crude oil and petroleum products, Inoue said,
adding that the proceeds will be used for renewable energy and
energy-saving projects. It’s too early to comment on the rate of
taxation, Inoue said.  Japan is the world’s third-biggest oil importer and the
biggest importer of liquefied natural gas. A plan to start a
carbon tax this year was delayed as lawmakers gave priority to
legislation linked to the reconstruction of the areas hit by the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami, Inoue said.  The disaster caused the meltdown of three reactors at  Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s (9501)  Fukushima Dai-Ichi station. As much as 85
percent of the country’s reactors were either damaged or idled
for repairs and safety checks. Nuclear power provided about 30
percent of Japan’s energy before the quake.  “It’s become very tough for Japan to achieve the goal” of
trimming emissions by 6 percent by 2012 under the  Kyoto
Protocol , given the status of the country’s nuclear reactors,
Hosono said. “But we have been making extraordinary efforts and
we believe it is not impossible.”   Negotiators from more than 190 countries have gathered in
Durban to discuss steps to curb emissions after limits outlined
in the Kyoto Protocol expire next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  