-- 
Japan’s Gold Exports Most Since 1985 as Individuals Sell Jewelry, Bars

-- B y   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 
2011-12-08T08:07:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/japan-s-gold-exports-most-since-1985-as-individuals-sell-jewelry-bars.html
Gold shipments from  Japan , the
world’s third-largest economy, are at the highest level since at
least 1985 as individuals who purchased jewelry more than 20
years ago are selling it amid record prices.  Shipments in the 10 months ended October totaled 95.6
metric tons, according to Takahiro Morita, the Japan director of
the  World Gold Council , who cited Ministry of Finance customs
data. The previous high was 95.5 tons in 2008.  Bullion is set for an 11th year of gains as central banks
join investors in purchasing the metal to diversify assets.
Japan’s largest gold retailer,  Tanaka Kikinzoku Kogyo K.K. , said
it bought 40 percent more bars and jewelry from individuals in
the nine-month period ending September. Global gold investment
jumped 33 percent to 468.1 tons in the third quarter from a year
earlier as bar and coin demand in  Europe  more than doubled to
the most since the fourth quarter of 2008, according to the
London-based council, a producer-funded group.  “Japan’s gold exports will reach 100 tons this year,”
Morita said in an interview yesterday.  Bullion exports to  Thailand  tripled and those to  Singapore 
doubled in the 10 months ended October from a year earlier,
according to statistics released by Japan’s finance ministry.  “More and more people who bought gold and jewelry in the
1980’s and 1990’s are selling back what they purchased,” said
Kotaro Horita, who trades precious metals at  Mitsubishi
Materials Corp. (5711)  in Tokyo. Exports have been increasing to
 Southeast Asia  and China in particular, Horita said.  Gold hit a high of $850 an ounce in the 1980’s and averaged
$418.50 during the decade, according to Bloomberg data. Spot
gold declined 0.2 percent to $1,738.75 at 4:35 p.m. in  Tokyo .  Central Banks  Purchases by central banks, which are adding to reserves
for the first time in a generation, may reach 450 tons this year,
Marcus Grubb, managing director of investment research at the
council, said Nov. 25. Central banks and government institutions
bought 142 tons last year, International Monetary Fund data show.  “Japan is the only country that exports gold without being
a major producer,” said Bruce Ikemizu, the manager of Standard
Bank Plc’s Tokyo branch. None of the 7.5 tons that’s extracted
annually from the  Hishikari Mine  in Kagoshima, southern Japan is
exported, according to Sumitomo Metal Mining Co., the country’s
top nickel producer and the operator of the nation’s only
operational gold mine.  ‘Several Billion Yen’  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  spends “several billion yen a day” at peak
times to purchase recyclable gold products for shipment to
foreign smelters, Koichi Iwanaga, general manager of the
commodity business department, said in an interview.  Bullion reached a record $1,921.15 an ounce on Sept. 6 and
has been profitable to export even after shipping fees because
of “the capacities and cost competitiveness of overseas
smelters,” said Iwanaga.  “Countries that are buying up gold are places where real
 interest rates  are negative,” said Itsuo Toshima, an
independent analyst who has researched global markets including
gold for about 30 years and was formerly the Japan director of
the World Gold Council.  In China, the biggest gold-jewelry consumer, inflation is
eroding the value of  bank deposits , prompting investors to seek
returns in bullion. Gold makes up 1.6 percent of  China ’s
foreign-currency reserves, compared with the 11 percent world
average, Nicholas Brooks of ETF Securities said Dec. 2.  ETFs  “Central banks are continuing to buy gold exchange-traded
funds after concerns arose about the creditworthiness of euro-
zone nations,” Koichiro Kamei, managing director at independent
research company Market Strategy Institute, said in an interview.  Holdings in bullion-backed exchange-traded funds dropped to
2,356.716 tons yesterday from the all-time high of 2,358.206
tons on Dec. 6, according to Bloomberg data.  The Bank of  Korea , which controls the world’s eighth-
biggest foreign-exchange reserves, bought gold for the second
time this year last month.  South Korea  purchased 15 tons,
boosting holdings to 54.4 tons, Lee Jung, head of the investment
strategy team at the bank’s Reserve Management Group, said on
Dec. 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the translator on the story:
Taku Kato in Tokyo at 
 tkato6@bloomberg.net  