-- 
Asian Stocks Decline as Europe Crisis Drags Economic Growth Across Region

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-12-09T09:25:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/japanese-stock-futures-drop-as-ecb-president-damps-bond-buying-speculation.html
Asian stocks fell for a second day
amid economic reports indicating  Europe ’s debt crisis is
contributing to slower growth in  Japan , South Korea and  China .  Nippon Sheet Glass Co. , which counts Europe as its biggest
market, fell 4 percent in  Tokyo  as a summit of European Union
leaders in Brussels ended without a “unanimous agreement” to
resolve the two-year-old sovereign debt crisis. Renhe Commercial
Holdings Co., a Chinese developer of underground shopping
centers, sank 9.6 percent in Hong Kong after a customer
reportedly defaulted on 2 billion yuan ($314 million) in debt.
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the largest global mining company, retreated
3.1 percent in Sydney after commodity prices declined.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 2.1 percent to 114.89 as
of 5:49 p.m. in Tokyo, set for its biggest decline in a month.
The gauge is headed for a 2.4 percent drop for the week after an
8 percent gain last week. Shares briefly pared losses after
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said the leaders’
summit in Brussels laid the groundwork for a “good fiscal
compact,” although it failed to win agreement from all 27 EU
members.  “European issues will not be easy,” said Koji Toda, chief
fund manager at Resona Bank Ltd. in Tokyo, which oversees the
equivalent of $68 billion. For China, “curbing inflation is a
good thing, but the reason why inflation is slowing is because
the global economy is slowing. If you see that fact, you can’t
be so optimistic. Companies depending on China business will
likely have an impact from the slowdown.”  All 10 industry groups on the Asia-Pacific measure dropped,
with more than five  stocks (MXAPJ)  falling for each that rose. The
gauge’s advance last week was the largest in four years, after
China reduced curbs on lending and the  Federal Reserve  led
central banks in cutting funding costs for European lenders.  Regional Indexes  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  sank 1.5 percent after a
report showed the nation’s economy grew less last quarter than
the government’s initial estimate. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI) 
declined 2 percent after producer prices rose at the slowest
pace in a year in November.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 index fell 1.8 percent. The
nation’s employers cut 6,300 workers in November from the
previous month, a report showed yesterday, missing a 10,000 job
gain expected by 22 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index fell 2.7 percent, while China’s
Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.6 percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  declined 15 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a drop of 1.9 percent by the
Standard & Poor’s 500 and a 14 percent slump by the Stoxx Europe
600 Index. Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 12.9
times estimated earnings on average, compared with 12.5 times
for the  S&P 500  and 10.4 times for the Stoxx 600.  U.S. Futures  Nippon Sheet Glass fell 4 percent to 146 yen in Tokyo.  HSBC
Holdings Plc (5) , Europe’s biggest lender by market value, retreated
3.7 percent to HK$60.05 in Hong Kong.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  rose 0.4 percent
today. The gauge slid 2.1 percent in  New York  yesterday,
snapping a three-day rally, after the ECB disappointed
expectations it would expand its 207 billion-euro bond-buying
program ($276 billion) to fight the crisis.  ‘Fiscal Compact’  European Central Bank President Draghi said he was
“surprised” markets interpreted earlier comments as hinting at
big bond buys. A euro-zone “fiscal compact” is the “most
important precondition” for normalizing markets and “the
responsibility is with the leaders,” he said.  “The ECB chief saying he didn’t hint at more bond
purchases was a disappointment for the market,” said Takashi Aoki, who helps manage 120 billion yen at Tokyo-based Mizuho
Asset Management Co. “It also gave the market a reason to lock
in profits after markets gained last week.”  Today in Brussels, European leaders failed to garner
unanimous approval for new fiscal plan to prevent future debt
run-ups, to accelerate the startup of a planned 500 billion-euro
rescue fund and to scale back bondholder loss-sharing provisions.  Chinese Inflation  In China, consumer prices rose 4.2 percent in November from
a year earlier, slowing from a 5.5 percent gain in the previous
month, the National Bureau of Statistics said today. The median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 4.5
percent increase.  BHP Billiton fell 3.1 percent to A$35.86 in Sydney.  Cnooc
Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore oil producer, slid 3.5 percent to
HK$14.78 in Hong Kong, while  Jiangxi Copper Co. (358) , the No. 1
Chinese producer of the metal, retreated 5.4 percent to HK$17.94.  Crude oil prices for January delivery sank 2.1 percent to
$98.34 a barrel in New York yesterday, while the London Metal
Exchange Index of prices for six commodities including copper
and aluminum slid 1.1 percent.  Renhe Commercial tumbled 9.6 percent to 94 Hong Kong cents,
the biggest drop in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  C C Land
Holdings Ltd. (1224)  dropped 9.3 percent to HK$1.57 in Hong Kong.  C C Land Chairman Zhang Songqiao bought properties from
Renhe and defaulted on 2 billion yuan of payments, according to
a  Hong Kong  Economic Journal newspaper report that didn’t name
sources. The stocks pared losses after Eva Chan, C C Land’s Hong
Kong-based spokeswoman, denied the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  