-- 
Citi Penalty Sought in Japanese Tibor Probe

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-12-09T00:28:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/japan-seeks-punishment-of-citigroup-unit-on-rate-manipulation-nikkei-says.html
Japanese securities watchdogs are
seeking to punish  Citigroup Inc. (C)  for attempted manipulation of
the Tokyo interbank offered rate, the Nikkei newspaper reported,
citing unidentified sources.  Regulators are examining whether employees at a Japanese
unit of Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. lender by assets,
pushed banks to submit  interest rates  that would ensure that
Tibor moved to the brokerage’s advantage, Nikkei said. The rate
is calculated by compiling quotes submitted by major banks.  The nation’s Securities and Exchange Surveillance
Commission is urging the Financial Services Agency to penalize
the Citigroup Global Markets Japan unit, Nikkei said.  Citigroup is part of a global investigation by regulators
into whether some of the world’s biggest banks manipulated the
interest rates at which they borrowed from each other. The U.S.
 Justice Department  and the Securities and Exchange Commission
may be investigating whether banks colluded to artificially
reduce the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, a person
with knowledge of the inquiry said in March.  Citigroup has already attracted the attention of Japanese
regulators. The Financial Services Agency is preparing to
penalize its Citibank Japan Ltd. unit for failing to fully
explain product risk to retail customers, two people with
knowledge of the situation said this month. Darren Buckley,
chief executive officer of the unit, may step down as soon as
month to take responsibility for the breach, the people said on
condition of anonymity.  Libor Probe  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Citigroup, declined to comment on the Nikkei report when reached
by Bloomberg News. There was no answer to a call to a phone
number listed on the commission’s website outside of normal
business hours.  Citigroup, led by Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit 
since 2007, has been asked to make employees available to
testify as witnesses before the U.K. Financial Services
Authority on the Libor manipulation probe, two other people
briefed on the plans said in March. Deutsche Bank AG,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. were also included in the
request, the people said.  The investigation came to light earlier this year after  UBS
AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, said it received subpoenas from
U.S. and Japanese regulators.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  has also said it’s
cooperating with U.S. and British market watchdogs.  Tibor rates are set daily by the country’s banks through
the Japanese Bankers Association, a trade group. Citigroup
joined the pool of banks used to set the rates in April 2010.  Libor rates, a benchmark for more than $350 trillion of
financial products worldwide, are set by the British Bankers’
Association. The rates are based on data from banks reflecting
how much it would cost them to borrow from each other for
various periods of time.  The SESC was established in  Japan  in 1992 after a series of
financial scandals to ensure fair transactions in securities and
financial  futures markets , according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  