-- 
Japanese Stocks Decline as Nikkei 225 Futures Expire Amid Europe Woes

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-12-08T06:40:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/japan-stocks-fall-before-european-debt-summmit-as-machinery-orders-drop.html
Japanese  stocks  fell, with the  Nikkei
225 (NKY)  Stock Average slipping from a one-month high, as investors
closed out futures on the last day of a contract ahead of
meetings in  Europe  aimed at resolving the debt crisis.  Nikon Corp. (7731) , a camera maker that depends on Europe for
about a quarter of its sales, fell 2.4 percent. Tokyo Electric
Power Co., owner of the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant, sank 11 percent after a report it may be taken over by
the government.  Sumco Corp.  slid 4.5 percent after the maker of
silicon wafers for semiconducters forecast a loss.  Aichi Steel
Corp. (5482)  led declines among large steelmakers after Credit Suisse
Group AG cut its rating.  The Nikkei 225 fell 0.7 percent to 8,664.58 at the 3 p.m.
close in  Tokyo  amid volume that was 12 percent above the 30-day
average. The gauge rose 6.2 percent in the past eight trading
days, yesterday reaching its highest since Nov. 9, amid optimism
Europe’s leaders will act to stem the debt crisis and as central
banks cut the cost of borrowing dollars for banks.  “Investors are looking to close out positions on concern
about funding difficulties for Europe’s banks,” said Yuji Nakagawa, manager of derivatives trading at Toyo Securities Co.
in Tokyo. “People think the settled price will be lower
tomorrow.”  The settlement price for Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average
futures and options contracts for December delivery will be
fixed tomorrow. The settlement price, also known as the
“special quotation,” of Nikkei 225 options is calculated after
all  stocks (TPX)  in the Nikkei 225 begin trading.  Summit Pressure  The Topix lost 0.6 percent to 745.11 today. Futures on the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  slid 0.1 percent after the index
gained 0.2 percent yesterday in  New York .  Pressure on Europe’s leaders to halt the spread of the
region’s debt crisis at a summit this week intensified as the
European Union had its AAA long-term rating put on “creditwatch
negative” by  Standard & Poor’s  following a similar warning on
15 euro-area governments. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President Nicolas Sarkozy are expected to argue for
rewriting European Union treaties to tighten control of national
budgets at the summit tonight and tomorrow.  Nikon sank 2.4 percent to 1,742 yen.  Kyocera Corp. , an
electronics maker that gets almost 20 percent of its sales in
Europe, slipped 1.7 percent to 6,800 yen.  Three euro-area officials with knowledge of deliberations
at the  European Central Bank  said the ECB may announce measures
to fight the crisis at meeting to decide rates today. Options
include loosening collateral criteria so that institutions have
more access to cheap cash and offering longer-term loans, said
the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity.  ‘Turning Cautious’  “As the meetings get closer investors have turned
cautious,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , who helps oversee the
equivalent of $24 billion as chief strategist at Toyota Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo. “There’s been a switch from a feeling
that we were going to get some visibility on the situation to a
cooler stance, where people are in a wait-and-see mood.”  Tokyo Electric declined the most on the Nikkei 225. Shares
plunged 11 percent to 244 yen after the Mainichi newspaper
reported the utility may effectively be nationalized. A state-
run fund may buy at least 1 trillion yen ($13 billion) of
preferred stock in the utility by next summer, the report said.  Sumco  declined 4.5 percent to 641 yen after forecasting a
net loss of 9 billion yen for the year ending January on
slumping demand for personal computers. The company previously
expected profit of 2.5 billion yen. Rival Shin-Etsu Chemical Co.
fell 3 percent to 3,715 yen.  Aichi Steel, which rose 15 percent in the eight trading
days through yesterday, lost 3.8 percent to 402 yen after Credit
Suisse cut its rating on the stock to “neutral” from
“outperform,” saying there’s no reason to buy the shares.
Nippon Steel Corp.,  Japan ’s top steelmaker, slid 1.5 percent to
198 yen.  -- With assistance from Toshiro Hasegawa and Masaaki Iwamoto in
Tokyo. Editor: Jason Clenfield,  Jim McDonald .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  