-- 
Jay-Z Sets $2,500 Ticket to Lure Financial Crowd to Charity Gig

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-12-08T20:12:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/jay-z-sets-2-500-ticket-to-lure-financial-crowd.html
Hip-hop legend Jay-Z said today he
will perform two concerts at  Carnegie Hall  in February to raise
money for his scholarship foundation and  United Way of New York
City .  “I want to do my part to make sure everyone has an
opportunity,” Jay-Z said in an interview today. “It’s really a
shame when someone has drive and really wants to further their
education, and they’re unable to because of their financial
situation.”  The shows will mark the first time a major solo hip-hop act
has been booked for an entire show at the storied Manhattan
venue, according to Clive Gillinson, Carnegie Hall’s executive
and artistic director.  Most of the tickets for the Feb. 6 and 7 shows will go on
sale Monday and will be priced at $500 to $2,500. They’re aimed
at wealthy individuals, such as hedge-fund executives and others
tied to  Wall Street , Jay-Z said.  “This is about connecting people to help other people,”
said the artist, whose real name is Shawn Carter.  A portion of the tickets will be offered to the public at
much lower prices on Jan. 30.  Jay-Z’s  Shawn Carter Scholarship Foundation  and United Way
will split the proceeds from the ticket sales. The United Way
works with families and schools to boost the reading proficiency
of children from low-income neighborhoods.  Raised in the  Brooklyn ’s Bedford-Stuyvesant district, Jay-
Z rose from poverty to become one of hip-hop’s top-selling solo
acts. In 2002, he launched his charity with the help of his
mother, Gloria Carter. His nonprofit has given away more than
$1.3 million to help 750 needy students attend college.  “We know we’re going to raise some money and help some
people,” Jay-Z said. “But we’re also going to raise the profile
of what I’m doing.”  (Feb. 6-7 concerts information:
 http://www.unitedwaynyc.org .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 Mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  