-- 
Alabama County Receiver Gets More Time to Appeal Ruling

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-12-08T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/jefferson-county-alabama-receiver-gets-more-time-to-appeal-judge-s-order.html
The receiver running Jefferson
County,  Alabama ’s insolvent sewer system won more time to appeal
a partial ruling by the county’s bankruptcy judge on whether the
receiver’s powers are limited.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas B. Bennett in Birmingham
hasn’t yet issued a final ruling on the receiver’s powers. Last
month, he rejected two of three main legal challenges to his
authority to limit the receiver.  In a court hearing today, Bennett said he considered that
ruling “a cleanup item,” and gave the receiver John S. Young Jr. and a trustee for bondholders owed about $3.1 billion
permission to wait to file an appeal. The appeal could be filed
after Bennett issues a ruling on the receiver’s powers.  Bennett joked that his final ruling might not satisfy
either side of the issue. “Maybe both plan to appeal, you never
know.” He didn’t say how, or when, he would rule.  Bondholders and the receiver are asking Bennett to verify
the receiver’s control over the sewer system. The county argues
that the bankruptcy filing imposes limits on Young, including
his ability to raise rates and control payments to bondholders.  Jefferson County filed bankruptcy last month after the
county, state officials and bondholders all failed to implement
a tentative agreement that would have cut debt related to the
sewer system by about $1 billion.  Bennett’s partial ruling reiterated comments he made during
a Nov. 17 court hearing related to the so-called Rooker-Feldman
Doctrine and the Johnson Act of 1934. The receiver claimed the
act and the doctrine prevented the judge from limiting the
receiver’s powers. Bennett disagreed.  The judge has said that if he decides that the U.S.
 Bankruptcy Code  gives him the authority to limit the receiver,
he must then decide what limits, if any, to impose.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  