-- 
Jet-Fuel Stockpiles in Europe Advance to Highest Since May

-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 
2011-12-08T17:15:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/jet-fuel-stockpiles-in-europe-advance-to-highest-since-may-1-.html
Jet-fuel stockpiles in independent
storage in  Europe ’s oil-trading hub rose to the most since May
on imports, according to data from PJK International BV, a
researcher in the Netherlands.  Jet-fuel  inventories in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp climbed
43 percent to 630,000 metric tons in the week to today, PJK data
show. That’s the highest since May 5 as cargoes arrived from
Bahrain,  Kuwait ,  Saudi Arabia ,  South Korea  and Qatar.  “There was lots of supply coming in and demand is slack,”
Pieter Kulsen, founder of PJK, said in a telephone interview
from Oosterhout.  Gasoil  stockpiles  fell for a second week to the lowest in a
month following shipments to West Africa, PJK said. Supplies
decreased 5.1 percent to 2.04 million tons even as cargoes of
the fuel, which includes diesel and heating oil, arrived from
 Lithuania  and the U.S.  “The reason why it’s slightly down is because Rhine water
levels have increased and as a result charterers are loading
more,” Kulsen said.  Gasoline  stockpiles rose 1.9 percent to 650,000 tons on
imports from Cuba,  France ,  Russia ,  Sweden  and the U.K., while
consignments were sent to West Africa, PJK data shows.  Naphtha  inventories dropped 28 percent to 88,000 tons even
as cargoes arrived from Russia, PJK said.  Fuel oil  stockpiles increased 6.2 percent to 788,000 tons
on imports from France, Lithuania, Russia and the U.K., PJK
said. A very-large-crude-carrier is being sent to  Singapore .  The following table shows the weekly inventory changes in
thousands of tons for gasoline, naphtha,  fuel oil  and jet fuel
in independent storage in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  