-- 
JPMorgan, Goldman Rank as Best Employers for Gays, Lesbians

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-12-08T21:34:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/jpm-goldman-among-best-workplaces-for-gays.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are among 22 financial firms
that received top marks today as the best workplaces for
lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender employees.  The three banks were among 207 U.S. companies that offer
health insurance covering medical services for transgender
employees seeking sexual reassignment, according to the 10th
annual  Corporate Equality Index  from the Human Rights Campaign
Foundation, a nonprofit that backs civil rights for lesbian,
gay, bisexual and transgender individuals.  Financial firms outperformed most other industries in
adopting and enforcing non-discrimination policies, offering
health insurance for same-sex partners and recruiting and
retaining lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender employees,
according to the report.  “This rating reflects equal health-care coverage for all
LGBT employees and their families, including full parity for
domestic partner benefits not only in basic medical coverage,
but in dependent care, retirement and other benefits that affect
families’ financial and medical well-being,”  Joe Solmonese ,
president of the Human Rights Campaign Foundation, said in the
report.  AmEx, Google  The Human Rights Campaign gave 88 Fortune 500 companies
scores of 100 percent and the designation as the “Best Places
to Work for LGBT Equality.” Among the 190 companies that
received perfect scores are financial firms including  American
Express Co., (AXP)   Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  Google Inc.,
Ford Motor Corp. and  Gap Inc. (GPS)  also received top marks.  JPMorgan is one of nine companies to achieve the highest
rating for 10 straight years, along with  Aetna Inc. (AET) , Alcatel-
Lucent, American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AMR) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Eastman
Kodak Co. (EK) ,  Nike Inc. (NKE) , Replacements Ltd. and  Xerox Corp. (XRX) ,
according to Paul Guequierre, a foundation spokesman.  The 2012 index ranked 850 firms. More than half of
companies in the Fortune 500 submitted surveys voluntarily and
the rest were rated based on publicly available data, according
to the foundation.  NYSE Euronext, owner of the New York Stock Exchange, and
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , which runs the Nasdaq Stock Market, were
among firms with the lowest scores at 15 percent.  “We believe the low score reflects the fact that we were
not aware of the survey” and that NYSE didn’t give data to the
foundation,  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ,
said in an e-mail. “We have a diverse workforce and support
many programs that are oriented to the LGBT community including
domestic partner benefits and LGBT resource group, among
others.”  Wayne Lee, a spokesman for New York-based Nasdaq, didn’t
immediately return phone and e-mail messages seeking comment on
the survey results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  