-- 
Korea’s Won Leads Drop in Asian Currencies on Europe Debt, Growth Concerns

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-12-08T09:08:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/korea-s-won-leads-drop-in-asian-currencies-on-europe-debt-growth-concerns.html
South Korea ’s won led declines among
Asian currencies on concern Europe’s debt crisis and the slowing
global economy will sap export demand.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index  dropped before
European leaders meet today in Brussels in an attempt to
escalate their response to the crisis that has led to bailouts
of  Greece , Ireland and Portugal. Taiwan’s exports rose 1.3
percent in November from a year earlier, official data showed
today. The median estimate of 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for an 8.6 percent gain. A report today
showed Japan’s machinery orders unexpectedly fell 6.9 percent in
October from a month earlier.  “The global economy is not stable,” said  Henry Lin , a
Taipei-based foreign-exchange trader at  Taiwan  Shin Kong
Commercial Bank. “Exports will slow down. Investors want to
hold the  U.S. dollar  which has more liquidity.”  The won weakened 0.5 percent to close at 1,131.43 per
dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Singapore’s dollar dropped 0.4 percent to S$1.2887 and
Malaysia’s ringgit fell 0.1 percent to 3.1315.  The Bank of Korea left borrowing costs unchanged at 3.25
percent for a sixth month today, saying in a statement after the
rate review that “in terms of the upside and downside risks to
the future growth path, the downside dominates.” The decision
was predicted by all 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Investors are aware that it will be difficult for
 Europe ’s leaders to announce policies that will surprise the
market,” said Sam Hong, senior vice-president in charge of
currency strategy at  Shinhan Bank  in Seoul. “The Bank of
Korea’s rate decision didn’t affect the market as investors were
expecting the rate to be held.”  ‘Investors are Cautious’  Indonesia’s central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 6 percent today, after unexpectedly slashing it by
50 basis points last month. Seventeen of 22 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg predicted the decision. The rupiah appreciated 0.9
percent to 8,998 per dollar, according to prices from local
banks compiled by Bloomberg.  “There was somewhat of a consensus that the central bank
would keep the rate unchanged,” said Saktiandi Supaat, head of
foreign-exchange research at Malayan Banking Bhd. in  Singapore .
“One of the reasons for the Bank Indonesia decision could be
that it doesn’t want the rupiah to weaken.”  China ’s yuan gained for the first time in four days as the
central bank raised the currency’s reference rate by the most
this week. The People’s Bank of China set the daily fixing 0.04
percent stronger at 6.3319 per dollar, 0.5 percent higher than
the currency’s close yesterday.  Stronger Yuan Fixing  “The stronger fixing sends signals to the market that yuan
depreciation is not on the agenda,” said Banny Lam, a Hong
Kong-based economist at CCB International Securities Ltd., a
unit of China’s second-largest bank. “Investors are buying the
yuan as they see the rate is now more favorable. Concerns over
economic growth remain so the gain could be limited.”  The yuan rose 0.04 percent to 6.3619 per dollar, according
to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The currency is
allowed to fluctuate as much as 0.5 percent on either side of
the PBOC’s  fixing .  Elsewhere, Thailand’s baht advanced 0.1 percent to 30.78
per dollar. Taiwan’s dollar, India’s rupee and the Philippine
peso were little changed at NT$30.179, 51.7375 and 43.275,
respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net 
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  