-- 
Nestle, Icann, Yahoo!, ‘South Park’: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-12-08T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/nestle-rim-icann-yahoo-south-park-intellectual-property.html
U.S. Supreme Court justices grappled
with the reach of federal patent law, touching on both fire-
building techniques and Albert Einstein’s discoveries during
arguments over diagnostic medical tests.  Yesterday’s one-hour session, which centered on a dispute
between  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s Prometheus unit and the  Mayo Clinic ,
produced few clear answers. The justices sought to draw what
proved to be a fine line between natural phenomena, which can’t
be patented, and applications of those principles, which can be.  The Prometheus case is the second at the Supreme Court
since 2010 concerning what types of inventions are eligible for
legal protection. Companies, trade groups and lawyers have filed
more than two dozen legal  briefs , many warning that the court’s
ruling might have widespread, unintended ramifications,
including stifling innovation.  Prometheus is suing two units of the Mayo Clinic, the not-
for-profit medical practice based in Rochester,  Minnesota .  Mayo says the patents would give Prometheus a monopoly over
all uses of the natural relationship between the metabolites
created by thiopurine and the drug’s impact on the human body.
The patents are so broad they would bar doctors familiar with
the Prometheus method from even thinking about the connection
between metabolite levels and the proper dosage for a patient,
Mayo’s lawyer, Stephen Shapiro, told the justices.  That argument drew skepticism from Justice  Sonia Sotomayor .
“It’s not as broad as you are stating,” she told Shapiro.  Prometheus’s lawyer, Richard Bress, countered that the
patents concern concrete applications of scientific principles,
which the  Supreme Court  has long said fall within the scope of
the U.S. Patent Act.  Justice Elena Kagan questioned whether the Prometheus
patents were specific enough.  “It’s not a treatment regimen,” she said. “All you have
done is pointed out a set of facts that exist in the world.”  The Obama administration is urging the court to take a
middle ground.  Chief Justice John Roberts questioned the government’s
approach, saying it would make instructions for building a fire
eligible for patent protection.  “It is easier to throw something out at the threshold
level, isn’t it, than to move further down the line?” Roberts
asked U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli.  The case may have its greatest impact on the field of
personalized medicine, an emerging practice that involves
determining whether a patient is genetically susceptible to a
particular disease or would be especially responsive to certain
treatments. Two companies focusing on that field,  Myriad
Genetics Inc. (MYGN)  and  Novartis AG (NOVN) , are backing Prometheus.  The case is Mayo Collaborative Services v. Prometheus
Laboratories, 10-1150, U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  EU-Wide Patent ‘Now or Never’ as Nations Clash on Court Process  The European Union’s first regionwide patent system may
“never” happen unless governments bury their differences this
month on a court process to handle disputes, an EU official
said.  While governments from 25 of the 27 EU nations already
agreed on the basic structure of the patent system, discord
remains “on all points” concerning the creation of a court,
said Pierre Delsaux, deputy director general in EU Internal
Markets Commissioner Michel Barnier’s department.  “It’s difficult to get a compromise if EU member states
are fighting for all their concerns,” Delsaux told a conference
in Brussels yesterday. “If we don’t get an agreement by Dec.
22, I don’t believe there’ll be a unitary patent in a very long
time. It’s now or never.”  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, proposed a
compromise deal after governments last year failed to break a
deadlock on which languages should be legally binding. Attempts
to reach an agreement on an EU patent since 2000 have faltered
over language issues. The EU has 23 official languages and
numerous compromise proposals have failed to satisfy political
demands or risked increasing translation costs for companies.  In March, 25 EU nations agreed to move forward with a
common patent system.  Italy  and  Spain  opted out of the plans
because they objected to the language system proposals. Italy,
which now has a new government led by Prime Minister Mario
Monti, is considering joining the system, said Delsaux.  The main sticking points include the seat of the main
patent court, how the court system should be financed and the
language system.  “It would be a pity if after more than 40 years of
negotiations, the new system would not be used,” Juergen Koch,
head of corporate intellectual property at  Robert Bosch GmbH ,
the world’s largest automotive supplier, said at the event. If
EU nations now “lose their energy and speed, which in my view
will be absorbed by the financial crisis, it may take even
longer.”  Companies can end up paying 18,000 euros ($24,100) for a
patent valid in only 13 countries, including 10,000 euros for
translation, according to the commission.  “We’re in the final furlongs” toward a final accord on
the patent, Barnier told journalists in Brussels today.  Europe 
“could compete with the level of protection that industrial
inventions get in the U.S. without it costing 10 times as much
as it does at the moment.”  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  RIM Ordered in Basis Suit Not to Use BBX Mark at Conference  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  was barred by a federal judge from
using Basis International Ltd.’s “BBX” trademark at an
industry conference in  Asia  that began yesterday.  U.S. District Judge William P. Johnson in Albuquerque, New
Mexico, ruled Dec. 6 that Research in Motion can’t use the BBX
trademark at the DevCon conference in  Singapore  being held
yesterday and today.  Basis is likely to win its trademark-infringement claims
against Research In Motion, and consumers are “likely to be
confused by RIM’s use of BBX in connection with RIM’s goods and
services,” Johnson wrote in the ruling.  The conference will be attended by software developers who
may be users of Basis’ BBX software, according to the ruling.  Jamie Ernst, a representative of Waterloo, Ontario-based
Research In Motion, said the company doesn’t typically comment
on pending litigation.  “However RIM has already unveiled a new brand name for its
next generation mobile platform,” Ernst said in an e-mailed
statement. “As announced at DevCon Asia, RIM plans to use the
‘BlackBerry 10’ brand name for its next generation mobile
platform.”  The case is Basis International Ltd. v. Research in Motion,
11-00953, US. District Court, District of New Mexico
(Albuquerque).  Web-Name Expansion Opposed by GE, J&J Faces U.S. Senate Scrutiny  A plan that may add hundreds of top-level Internet domains
beyond .com and .net is drawing scrutiny from U.S. lawmakers and
regulators as large companies intensify their opposition.  The Senate Commerce Committee is to hold a hearing today on
the expansion of so-called generic top-level domains approved by
the  Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers , a
nonprofit that manages the Web’s naming system under a contract
with the U.S. government. The group, known as Icann, will accept
applications for new Web suffixes, such as .apple and .zoo,
starting next month.  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) 
are among more than 40 companies that last month joined with the
Association of National Advertisers to oppose the expansion,
saying it will increase costs for companies, confuse customers
and create risks of Internet fraud.  Icann’s proposal “would unduly burden a diverse range of
public and private brand holders, as they would be forced to
spend ever-greater amounts of time and resources simply to
protect their brands,” the companies wrote in a Nov. 10 letter
to the Commerce Department.  The group asked the department to persuade Icann to
postpone the application period until it demonstrates the
economic and other benefits of the program. Icann deliberated
for six years before it board voted June 20 to allow new
variations to the right of the “dot” in Web addresses to spur
online innovation.  The planned addition of top-level domains may be a
“disaster,” allowing con artists to set up fraudulent
websites, Federal Trade Commission Chairman Jon Leibowitz said
during a House Judiciary subcommittee hearing yesterday on
antitrust enforcement. The FTC, which has no direct authority
over Icann, can act when companies engage in deceptive trade
practices.  Icann welcomes “the opportunity to inform the committee of
the inclusive and transparent process” leading to the expansion
program, Brad White, a spokesman in  Washington  for the Marina
del Ray, California-based organization, said in an e-mail.  Manager of the Internet’s address system for the U.S.
government since 1998,  Icann  now oversees 22 so-called generic
top-level domains, including the commonly used .com, .org and
.net.  The group will accept applications for as many as 1,000 new
Web suffixes, including company and brand names, cities and
words, from Jan. 12 to April 12. Applications will cost $185,000
for each domain.  Yahoo! Picks up $610 Million Award in Internet Spam Dispute  Yahoo! Inc. , an Internet company based in Sunnyvale,
 California , was awarded $610 million in a case it filed against
so-called spammers who set up a fake Yahoo lottery e-mail
scheme.  In March 2009, Yahoo sued a number of unnamed companies and
individuals for trademark infringement. The defendants were
accused of setting up a fake lottery in order to acquire
personal information from Yahoo users, including Social Security
and credit card numbers and access to bank accounts.  In some cases the so-called winners of the lottery were
persuaded to send the defendants money for processing and
mailing charges, according to court papers.  On Dec. 5, U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain ordered
the defendants to pay Yahoo $610 million, comprised of damages
for trademark infringement and for violation of the Can-Spam
Act. That bill, passed in 2003, was aimed at protecting
consumers against unwanted e-mail, including those that are
fraudulent or unwanted sexually explicit messages. The company
was also awarded attorney fees.  Defendants have until Jan. 23 to file opposition to the fee
award, according to court papers.  Yahoo was represented by Robert S. Weisbein and John
Britton Payne of Milwaukee’s Foley & Lardner LLP.  The case is  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  v. XYZ Cos., 1:08-cv-04581-LTS-THK,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Attorney Fee Awarded in ‘What What (In the Butt)’ Case  A company that unsuccessfully sued the producers of the
“South Park” television program for copyright infringement
must pay the defendants’ attorney fees, a federal judge in
Milwaukee ruled.  The makers of the “ What What (In the Butt) ” music video
had claimed that a  “South Park” parody of the song  infringed
the copyright. The court found that the parody fell into
copyright law’s “fair use” provisions, and rejected all of the
claims of Milwaukee’s  Brownmark Films LLC .  In his attorney-fee award order, U.S. District Judge J.P.
Stadmueller said he thought Brownmark’s motivation in filing the
suit was “questionable” and demonstrated an attempt to use the
threat of litigation to force a licensing agreement.  He said that awarding attorney fees to the defendants --
which included  Viacom Inc.  -- “would defer future action that
is similar to Brownmark’s.”  The judge did cut almost $13,000 from the fee award, saying
that some of the billed hours were duplicative of earlier work
by the firm.  The case is Brownmark Films LLC. v. Comedy Partners, 2:10-
cv-01013-JPS, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Wisconsin
(Milwaukee).  Vostu, Zynga Settle Copyright-Infringement Dispute  Vostu USA Inc.  and Zynga Inc. settled their copyright suit,
according to a Dec. 6 case filing.  Zynga sued Vostu in federal court in San Jose, California,
on June 16, accusing the company of infringing its Cafe World,
PetVille, Zynga Poker and FarmVille games. That complaint
contained color images of many elements in Vostu’s games that
Zynga claims infringed its copyrights.  In its July 20 response to the complaint, New York-based
Vostu said Zynga’s allegations were “at their foundation a
vicious effort to malign Vostu for competing.” Vostu’s games
are popular in Latin America, particularly  Brazil , where the
company released a soccer-oriented social game in 2009.  Vostu claims Zynga’s suit was motivated by the San
Francisco company’s entry into Brazil; Vostu’s arrival on
Facebook Inc.’s social media site, “which Zynga claims as its
exclusive turf;” and Zynga’s initial public offering. Zynga
filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission July 1,
seeking to raise as much as $1 billion in its initial public
offering.  Zynga’s infringement claims against Vostu “are not just
deeply cynical. They also mask a fatal flaw in Zynga’s case:
Zynga cannot claim copyright protection over material that Zynga
did not originally create,” Vostu said in its pleadings.  Many of the elements Zynga claimed were infringed by Vostu
were in fact present in other companies’ games, Vostu said in
court papers.  Vostu asked the court to declare it doesn’t infringe
Zynga’s copyrights, and for awards of attorney fees and
litigation costs.  Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed.  The case is Zynga Inc., v. Vostu USA Inc., 5:11-cv-02959-
EJD, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Jose).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 