-- 
New China Life H.K. IPO Said Only 60% Filled

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-12-08T01:55:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/new-china-life-h-k-ipo-said-to-be-60-filled.html
New  China  Life Insurance Co., the
state-backed insurer seeking as much as $2.3 billion in an
initial public offering, received orders for only about 60
percent of the shares it offered to retail investors in Hong
Kong, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  China’s third largest life insurer is selling shares in
Hong Kong and Shanghai, and the IPO is expected to be priced
today, according to a  prospectus  filed to the city’s stock
exchange on Dec. 1. About 17.9 million shares, or 5 percent of
the Hong Kong portion of the IPO, were reserved for individual
investors, according to the prospectus.  Individual investors are cool to New China Life’s offering
after shares of its rivals have plunged this year.  China Life
Insurance Co. (2628)  and Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. are down about
32 percent in 2011, as of yesterday. Chinese insurers face
“solvency pressure” because of losses in their investment
portfolios,  Fitch Ratings  said in a report this week.  “Life insurer stocks have done poorly this year and there
are quite a few of them already in the market to choose from,”
said Nelson Yan, an investment manager who helps oversee about
$90 million at Mayfair Pacific Financial Group in Hong Kong.  Luxury Cars  The remainder of New China Life’s retail offering in Hong
Kong will be reallocated to institutions, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the information is private.
The insurer received enough orders to cover the institutional
books for both the Hong Kong and  Shanghai  listings, people with
knowledge of the transaction said last month.  HKT Trust, the telecom business trust sold by PCCW Ltd.,
recieved orders for less than 12 percent of the units reserved
for retail investors in its $1.2 billion IPO in November,
according to a Nov. 28 filing to Hong Kong’s stock exchange.
That offering priced at the bottom of its marketed range.  Prada SpA, the Italian luxury retailer, received bids for
about half of the stock available to retail investors in its
$2.5 billion IPO in June, people familiar with the matter said
at the time. Its offering priced below the middle of a marketed
range. Both companies originally offered 10 percent of their IPO
shares to individual investors.  New China Life and  Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd.  are
among companies pricing up to $6.6 billion of stock in Hong Kong
in December, making it the city’s biggest month for IPOs since
October 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Also expected to
set the price for its shares today is Baoxin Auto Group Ltd., a
dealer of luxury cars in China that is seeking up to $526
million.  The Beijing-based insurer is offering the Hong Kong shares
at HK$28.20 to HK$34.33 apiece while the Shanghai shares are
being offered at 23 yuan to 28 yuan each, according to the
company. The company plans to start trading in Hong Kong on Dec.
15.  New China Life was the nation’s third-largest life insurer
by premium income last year, after China Life and Ping An
Insurance (Group) Co., according to data from the China
Insurance Regulatory Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mohammed Hadi at 
 mhadi1@bloomberg.net  