-- 
New China Life Raises $1.9 Billion in Initial Sale in Hong Kong, Shanghai

-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-12-08T16:01:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/new-china-life-raises-1-9-billion-in-initial-sale-in-hong-kong-shanghai.html
New  China  Life Insurance Co., the
nation’s third-largest life insurer, raised $1.9 billion from an
initial public offering, after selling shares near the bottom of
a marketed range.  The state-backed company sold 358.4 million shares at
HK$28.50 apiece in Hong Kong, according to a statement to the
Shanghai stock exchange yesterday. It sold another 158.5 million
shares in Shanghai at 23.25 yuan apiece, it said in a separate
filing. The Hong Kong share sale raised HK$10.2 billion ($1.3
billion), and the Shanghai listing raised 3.7 billion yuan ($582
million).  Investors have cooled on new equity offerings even as New
China Life and  Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd.  are among
companies hoping to raise almost $6 billion in  Hong Kong  in
December, more than any month since October 2010, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The listing plans come with the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index  down 17 percent so far this year.  “What we hear in news day in and day out is the European
debt crisis and how the world is going into recession,” said
Pauline Dan Hong Kong-based chief investment officer at Samsung
Asset Management, which oversees about $72 billion. “Under such
circumstances, I don’t think investors will be too keen to take
on risks.”  ‘Solvency Pressure’  Baoxin Auto, a Chinese luxury car dealer, yesterday priced
its $415 million offering at the bottom of the range marketed to
investors. Chow Tai Fook, seeking as much as $2.8 billion in
what may be Hong Kong’s biggest IPO this year, is scheduled to
price its offering today.  “Chow Tai Fook should do okay as people are more familiar
with the name,” said Dan. “People are a little bit more
positive on consumer-related stocks.”  New China Life’s rivals China Life Insurance Co. and  Ping
An Insurance (Group) Co. (2318)  have tumbled more than 30 percent this
year, with  Fitch Ratings  saying that the nations insurers face
“solvency pressure” because of investment losses.  New China Life plans to use the proceeds to bolster its
capital base, according to the offering document. Its solvency
ratio, a measure of an insurer’s ability to settle claims,
declined to about 87 percent at the end of September. That
compares with a median solvency ratio of 212 percent at domestic
rivals China Life, Ping An, and China Pacific Insurance (Group)
Co., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Retail Demand  “Life insurer stocks have done poorly this year and there
are quite a few of them already in the market to choose from,”
said Nelson Yan, an investment manager who helps oversee about
$90 million at Mayfair Pacific Financial Group in Hong Kong.  The price of the Hong Kong offering values New China Life
at 1.05 times so-called embedded value, or net assets plus the
present value of future profits. China Life Insurance Co. trades
at about 1.6 times estimated 2012 embedded value in Hong Kong
while Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. is valued at 1.5 times, said
Olive Xia, an analyst at Core Pacific-Yamaichi International
Ltd. in  Shanghai .  New China Life received orders for only about 60 percent of
the shares it offered to individual investors in Hong Kong,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter. Retail
investors are cautious after recent stock market volatility,
said Terrace Chum, managing director of greater China equities
for Manulife Asset Management, which oversees $199 billion.  “Although the Hong Kong economy still seems to be doing
alright, we’re starting to see some retrenchment in the finance-
related industry,” said Chum, who is based in Hong Kong.
“Probably people want to hold on to more cash.”  Zurich Financial Services  The insurer originally offered the Hong Kong shares at
HK$28.20 to HK$34.33 apiece, according to a prospectus filed to
the city’s stock exchange on Dec. 1. The Shanghai shares were
offered at 23 yuan to 28 yuan each.  Central Huijin Investment Ltd. , a unit of China’s sovereign
wealth fund, will remain New China Life’s biggest  shareholder 
with a 31.3 percent stake following the IPO, according to the
prospectus. Baosteel Group Corp., a steelmaker, has a 15.1
percent holding, while Zurich Financial Services AG is the
third-biggest investor with 12.5 percent after the offering, the
document shows.  New China Life was the nation’s third-largest life insurer
by premium income last year, after China Life and Ping An,
according to data from the China Insurance Regulatory
Commission.  BNP Paribas SA, China International Capital Corp., Deutsche
Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG are among banks
that arranged New China Life’s IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mohammed Hadi at 
 mhadi1@bloomberg.net  