-- 
New York May Be Safely Evacuated Ahead of Nuclear Event, NRC’s Jaczko Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 
2011-12-08T20:23:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/new-york-may-be-safely-evacuated-ahead-of-nuclear-event-nrc-s-jaczko-says.html
The  New York  City area may be safely
evacuated in the event of a Fukushima-like disaster at the
Indian Point nuclear plant because a crisis would unfold slowly,
the top U.S. nuclear regulator said.  “Nuclear accidents do develop slowly, they do develop over
time, and we saw that at Fukushima,” U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission Chairman  Gregory Jaczko , 41, said in an interview
today at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. It’s unlikely a
nuclear accident would require prompt action beyond “more than
a few miles,” where the highest radiation levels would be, he
said.  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  has said  Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s
Indian Point plant, about 24 miles (39 kilometers) north of the
most populated U.S. city, should be closed because it isn’t
feasible to evacuate about 20 million residents of the
metropolitan area in the event of an accident.  Josh Vlasto , a Cuomo spokesman, declined to respond to
Jaczko’s comments. “The governor’s position is clear,” Vlasto
said today in an interview in Albany. “He wants to shut it
down.”  Jaczko’s commission initially recommended that U.S.
citizens living with 50 miles of the Fukushima plant evacuate
following a March earthquake and tsunami that caused meltdowns
and radiation leaks at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear plant. The U.S. agency requires reactor owners to
plan for emergencies involving  radiation exposure  within 10
miles of nuclear plants.  The commission is weighing new requirements for owners of
the 104 U.S. operating reactors following Fukushima. Jaczko
wants all rules developed after an agency task-force review of
the disaster to be implemented within five years.  Evacuation Plans  Indian Point  has two reactors with operating licenses that
expire in 2013 and 2015, and Entergy is seeking 20-year
extensions. Cuomo is opposed to renewing the licenses.  Jaczko said he hasn’t examined evacuation plans for New
York specifically. Evacuation plans aren’t considered during
license renewals and are the responsibility of state and local
authorities, who would work with plant owners in the event of an
emergency, he said.  Jaczko, a former science adviser to Senate Majority Leader
Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, was appointed to the commission
by President George W. Bush in 2005 and elevated to chairman by
President Barack Obama in 2009. His term runs through 2013.  Southern Co. (SO) , Scana  The agency’s review of Fukushima won’t delay decisions on
issuing licenses to build new U.S. reactors, Jaczko said. The
commission may issue “within a month or two” the first
licenses in more than 30 years to build reactors, he said. It
must first give final approval to  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s design for the
AP1000 reactor model.  Southern Co., based in Atlanta, is seeking permission to
add two new AP1000 reactors at its Vogtle plant near Augusta,
Georgia, a project estimated to cost $14 billion.  Scana Corp. (SCG)  plans to build two reactors at its Virgil C.
Summer site about 26 miles northwest of Columbia,  South
Carolina . The new reactors at both plants may begin operating by
2016, the companies have said.  It would be possible to “condition the licenses” so that
new safety features aimed at protecting the plants from
earthquakes could be incorporated as they are built, Jaczko
said.  “That would leave plenty of time during construction to
make the modifications,” Jaczko said. “There’s a way to do it
that wouldn’t necessarily have any impact on delays.”  The agency hasn’t issued a construction license for a new
U.S. nuclear plant since a partial meltdown occurred at the
Three Mile Island reactor near Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , in
1979.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  