-- 
Long Island’s Nassau County Cleared for $450 Million Bond Sale

-- B y   E s m e   E .   D e p r e z
-- 
2011-12-09T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/new-york-s-nassau-county-gets-clearance-to-issue-450-million-in-bonds.html
The New York state oversight board
that took control of Nassau County’s finances last year gave
permission for the Long Island municipality to sell as much as
$450 million in bonds during the next four years.  The  Nassau County Interim Finance Authority  voted 5-2
yesterday to allow the borrowing by the state’s wealthiest
county, said Kevan Abrahams, a Democrat from Freeport who will
become minority leader of the county Legislature next month.  Any bond sale would require a 13-vote majority in the
Legislature, which the Republicans control 11-8. Democrats won’t
approve borrowing until  County  Executive Edward Mangano, a
Republican who took office in 2010, provides more details on how
budget cuts will affect services and safety, Abrahams said.  “This can of fiscal responsibility continues to get kicked
down the road,” Abrahams said by telephone after the meeting in
Uniondale. “We would have liked to have seen a ‘no’ vote.”  The Legislature in October passed Mangano’s $2.64 billion
spending plan for 2012 to plug a $310 million deficit.
Amendments developed with input from NIFA assumed $75 million in
concessions from unions by Dec. 15. Failure to reach a deal will
trigger 400 layoffs and 200 demotions, Mangano has said. The
budget calls for $75 million in additional labor concessions by
Feb. 1.  “The approval of this budget plan, developed by the county
in consultation with NIFA, will put Nassau on the road to
recovery,” Mangano said in a statement yesterday.  ‘No More Shenanigans’  NIFA board member George Marlin voted to approve borrowing
even though he said he had reservations about Nassau’s ability
to rescue itself. A rejection would have prohibited the county
from accessing  capital markets  and might have forced it to cease
operations, he said in a prepared statement.  The state created NIFA in 2000 after years of deficits. The
agency seized control of Nassau’s finances in January after
ruling that its budget had a gap of more than 1 percent of
projected spending.  Nassau’s median property tax of $8,206 is the second-
highest among U.S. counties, according to the  Tax Foundation  in
 Washington . Its median  household income  was $92,450 from
2005-2009, according to U.S. Census Bureau data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  