-- 
NFL’s Green Bay Packers Sell $46.3 Million of Stock in First Two Days

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-12-09T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/nfl-s-green-bay-packers-sell-46-3-million-of-stock-in-first-two-days.html
The  Green Bay Packers , the only
publicly owned franchise in major U.S. sports, have sold more
than $46.3 million in stock in the first two days of their fifth
share offering.  The team sold more than 185,000 shares at $250 each in the
opening 48 hours, club President  Mark Murphy  said yesterday in
an e-mailed release. The National Football League team
originally planned to sell 250,000 shares and will sell
additional stock should demand exceed that number, Murphy said
in a Dec. 6 conference call when the team began the sale.  The stock doesn’t pay dividends or appreciate in value and
cannot be sold. The Packers are raising money for a $143 million
renovation of  Lambeau Field  that will add two new gates, roughly
6,700 seats and a new video board.  “We’re humbled by the response from our fans and their
desire to help the Packers achieve long-term success,” Murphy
said in the release. “The expansion will enhance the stadium
experience for fans, increase our team’s home-field advantage
and ensures that Lambeau Field continues be a source of pride
for fans everywhere.”  Shareholders are given a vote for the team’s board of
directors and can attend stockholders’ meetings every summer in
Green Bay,  Wisconsin , with exclusive access to events such as
rookie practices and stadium tours. They also have a special
store with apparel such as “I Own A Piece of the Pack” T-
shirts.  The team sold 1,600 shares in the first 11 minutes of the
sale, which is scheduled to continue through the mail and at
 PackersOwner.com  until Feb. 29, subject to extension. Residents
in all 50 states and three U.S. territories have purchased stock,
according to the release.  ‘Big Pride Thing’  Matthew Weir, a vice president at  Taconic Investment
Partners LLC  in  New York City , said he bought stock on the
sale’s first day partially because it was a direct way to
support his favorite team.  “It’s also a big pride thing,” Weir, 30, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s the ability to say you’re an owner
of an NFL team and a participant in something that’s only
happened a limited amount of times.”  The Packers’ first three sales, in 1923, 1935 and 1950,
saved the franchise from bankruptcy, according to the team. This
sale and the team’s 1997 offering went towards the redevelopment
of Lambeau Field.  The franchise won its fourth  Super Bowl  in February, a game
that was the most-watched television event in U.S. history. The
Packers are 12-0 this season, the only undefeated team in the
league.  “When you understand the economics of sports today, you
look at the big-market teams and then you look at what  Green
Bay ’s been able to do,” Weir said. “Here is an opportunity to
add to their success, not only today, but for the future to
ensure that they stay competitive and keep those winning
traditions going.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  