-- 
NYC Will Lose $1B If Cuomo Vetoes Taxi Bill, Mayor Says

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-12-08T21:37:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/nyc-will-lose-1b-if-cuomo-vetoes-taxi-bill-mayor-says.html
New York City ’s budget deficit would
increase by a third to $3 billion if Governor Andrew Cuomo
vetoes a bill that would let the city sell 2,000 taxi medallions
and permit radio-call cabs to pick up passengers who hail them
outside Manhattan, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said.  The mayor has said the plan would provide $1 billion in a
$70.3 billion budget for the fiscal year that starts July 1. On
Nov. 18, Bloomberg included medallion sales in a list of agency
cuts and revenue sources he said would reduce a projected $4.6
billion gap to $2 billion. State law requires him to prepare a
preliminary budget by the first week of February.  Last night, Cuomo said he intended to veto  the bill . The
governor cited objections from yellow-cab owners who say their
medallions, which sell for as much as $1 million at auction,
could lose value.  “There’s a myriad of issues and they’re all significant,”
Cuomo said during a news conference in  Albany  after the Senate
approved his tax overhaul. “I said from Day One if we don’t
have a resolution of these issues, I’m going to veto the bill.”  Efforts to resolve the differences would most likely resume
in January and February, the governor said.  The plan, which  passed  the Legislature in June, would allow
so-called livery drivers, now legally bound to answer only radio
calls, to pick up passengers who hail them on streets in
northern  Manhattan  and the other four boroughs -- areas of
“nearly non-existent taxi availability,” according to a state
Assembly memorandum describing the bill.  ‘Very Big Difference’  “It also will generate a billion dollars of revenue for
the city at a time when we have $5 billion deficits we’re trying
to close,” the mayor said during a WCBS radio interview today.
“A billion would make a very big difference.”  Later at a news conference, Bloomberg said Cuomo “has
assured me this bill would be passed with some minor changes.”  In his statement last night, Cuomo said he wouldn’t sign
the bill unless all cabs with newly sold medallions were
accessible to disabled passengers. That provision had already
been agreed to, said Julie Wood, a spokeswoman for Bloomberg.
The deal would have expanded the number of freshly minted
medallions for sale to 2,000 from 1,500, taking into account the
possibility that handicapped-accessible taxi medallions might
not be worth as much as medallions not so encumbered, she said.  Diluting Value  Fernando Mateo, president of the New York Federation of
Taxi Drivers, said the plan’s authorization of new medallion
sales would dilute the value of his members’ investments. The
city has about 13,200 medallions.  Another provision that would allow the city to sell 30,000
“hailing privilege” permits would also hurt yellow-cab drivers
who now have exclusive rights to that business, Mateo said.  As many as 450 “hail privilege” permits would be sold to
garages that operate as for-hire vehicle base stations,
according to the law.  “Once you take away the exclusive right to pick up street
hails, the medallion is no longer going to be worth as much as
it is now, and that will make it more difficult to obtain
financing, as it won’t retain its value,” Mateo said.  The sale of city taxi licenses hit a record $1 million in
October, bolstering shares of  Medallion Financial Corp., (TAXI)  which
owns medallions and lends money to buyers.  Medallion Financial’s shares, which traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market under the ticker symbol TAXI, have increased 42
percent this year through Dec. 7, compared with a 7 percent drop
in the  Russell 2000 Financial Services Index (RGUSFS) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@loomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 