-- 
Obama Says Europe Must Have ‘Political Will’ on Debt Crisis

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-12-08T19:12:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/obama-says-europe-must-have-political-will-on-debt-crisis-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said he
remains “very concerned” about the European sovereign debt
crisis and that the continent’s leaders have to “muster the
political will” to do what’s necessary.  Obama said there’s no reason the European Union can’t
resolve the two-year-old crisis and that he’s “repeatedly”
expressed the U.S. position to German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , leaders of the union’s two
biggest economies, and other key officials.  “I think they now recognize the urgency of doing something
serious and bold,” Obama said at a White House news conference.
“The question is whether they can muster the political will to
get it done.”  His comments echoed those made by Sarkozy, who earlier
today said that EU leaders needed to summon the “courage” to
end crisis and warned that there won’t be a second chance to
save the euro.  Obama has dispatched  Timothy F. Geithner , his treasury
secretary, to Europe on a three day-trip this week, leading up
to two-day EU summit that starts today in Brussels. At stops in
Frankfurt, Berlin and Milan, he has urged policy makers to work
with central banks to erect firewalls to prevent the crisis from
spreading.  Market Reaction  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  lost 1.7 percent to 1,239.6
at 1:32 p.m. in  New York  and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
retreated 1.5 percent as the  European Central Bank  damped
speculation it would boost debt purchases and regulators said
the region’s lenders need to raise more capital than previously
estimated.  The euro slid 0.7 percent to $1.3321. Yields on 10-year
Italian and Spanish bonds jumped at least 47 basis points. Ten-
year U.S. Treasury yields fell five basis points to 1.98 percent
after gaining six points earlier.  Obama repeated his administration’s stance that  Europe  has
the capacity to deal with the debt situation.  “It’s not as if we’re talking about some impoverished
country that doesn’t have any resource,” he said. “This is
Europe, with some of the wealthiest countries on Earth,
collectively one of the largest markets on Earth, if not the
largest.”  Impact on U.S.  He said he was concerned about the impact the crisis could
have on U.S. growth and the economy’s capacity to generate jobs
if Europe starts to “tank.”  “There’s a short-term crisis that has to be resolved,” he
said. “We’re going to do everything we can to push them in a
good direction on this, because it has a huge impact on what
happens here in the  United States .”  He said Merkel “has made some progress” on moving toward
a new fiscal pact to make sure that no one acts
“irresponsibly.”  With the crisis now in its third year, Merkel and Sarkozy
are pushing to discuss a “fiscal union” via EU treaty change
at the Brussels summit later today. That may create the
conditions for European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  to
offer more help to fight the crisis, after he announced an
interest-rate cut and unlimited cash for banks in Frankfurt
today.  “That’s all for the good,” Obama said.  -- With assistance by Kate Andersen Brower in Washington, Mark
Deen and Tony Czuckzka in Marseille and Ian Katz in Milan.
Editors: Joe Sobczyk, Bob Drummond  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in  Washington  at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  