-- 
Obama Focuses on Local Connections to Combat Extremists

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-12-08T21:42:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/obama-strategy-focuses-on-local-connections-to-combat-extremists.html
The Obama administration said that,
while al-Qaeda and its affiliates remain the nation’s biggest
threat, the government must focus on rooting out homegrown
extremists inspired by the terrorist group.  The administration released a report today that outlines
ways federal officials are engaging with groups and communities
that are potential targets for recruitment by terrorists.  The administration’s strategy includes establishing a  task
force  to coordinate government outreach; lending support to
community-led efforts to combat violent extremism; studying and
sharing strategy with local law enforcement officials, and
enhancing training to counter extremism.  The report sets out how the government is implementing a
strategy to prevent violent extremism in the U.S. that was
signed by President  Barack Obama  in August 2011.  “Radicalization to violence depends on a variety of
factors, which in some instances may be most effectively
addressed by departments and agencies that historically have not
been responsible for national security or law enforcement,” the
report says.  The effort parallels programs to combat gangs, sexual
offenses, school shootings and other criminal violence by
raising awareness of the threats and sharing information and
supporting people in the communities most affect, it says.  Identifying Extremists  Among the communities involved are Muslims in the U.S., who
have been valuable in identifying al-Qaeda-inspired extremists
in the country, said an administration official who spoke on
condition of anonymity during a conference call with reporters.  The administration also considers white supremacists and
violent anarchists among the extremist groups that pose a
threat, the official said.  Traditional law enforcement agencies such as the Department
of  Homeland Security  and the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  are
involved in assisting affected communities as well as agencies
such as the Department of Education.  The report says the Internet and social networking can be
used as a tool to help “engage communities, build and mobilize
networks against violent extremists and undercut terrorist
narratives.” It also recognizes that the Internet can be used
by violent extremists for recruitment and radicalization.  Exposing Hypocrisy  “As much as we can get to the point where we can unpack
and expose the hypocrisy of al-Qaeda and the jihadi narrative
and facilitate its fall under its own weight is a good thing,”
said Frank J. Cilluffo, director of the Homeland Security Policy
Institute at the George  Washington  University in Washington.  Cilluffo said he is concerned the administration hasn’t
done enough to “push back” and “clean up” extremist
information available on the Internet and hasn’t done enough to
coordinate efforts to stop al-Qaeda-related terrorists abroad.  According to the report, the Department of Homeland
Security’s Office for  Civil Rights  and Civil Liberties doubled
its outreach to communities this year holding 72 community
engagement events in fiscal year 2011.  “There’s a lot of discussion about engagement with various
communities and constituencies, which is all fine and good but
not at the expense of collection and enforcement,” Cilluffo
said in an interview.  Obama defended his administration’s efforts against
terrorists when asked during a White House news conference today
to respond to allegations by some Republican presidential
candidates, including former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney,
that he has pursued a policy of “appeasement” that has
undermined U.S. security in the  Middle East .  “Ask  Osama bin Laden  and the 22 out of 30 top al-Qaeda
leaders who’ve been taken off the field whether I engage in
appeasement, or whoever’s left out there,” Obama said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  