-- 
Obama Turns Focus to Iraq as Future U.S. Role Still Evolving

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-12-08T18:32:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/obama-turns-focus-to-iraq-as-future-u-s-role-still-evolving.html
President  Barack Obama  is focusing on
the withdrawal of U.S. forces from Iraq by year’s end, even as
his administration continues talks behind the scenes about the
future American role there.  Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki is scheduled to meet
with Obama at the White House on Dec. 12. Two days later, the
president will address troops at Fort Bragg,  North Carolina ,
home of the 82nd Airborne Division and the Army Special
Operations Command.  Obama wanted to speak to troops and their families on Dec.
14 “as we definitively end America’s war in Iraq this month,”
the White House said in a statement today.  The war is ending as U.S. concerns about  Iraq ’s neighbor,
Iran, and its nuclear program are mounting.  Obama, running for re-election next year, promised to end
U.S. military involvement during his 2008 campaign. He’s been
criticized by Republican presidential challengers who say it’s
too soon to end the mission and that doing so could put U.S.
gains at risk.  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  called
Obama’s decision an “astonishing failure to secure an orderly
transition.” Romney questioned whether the decision came from
“naked political calculation or simply sheer ineptitude.”  The agreement that kept troops in the country through the
end of the year was negotiated in 2008 under President  George W. Bush . The Iraqi government declined to provide immunity from
prosecution for U.S. troops to stay into next year.  ‘Partisan Environment’  “You don’t want, as a Democratic president, the charge
that you somehow lost the war,” said  Anthony Cordesman , an
analyst at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a
policy center in Washington. “In this partisan environment,
every charge will be made and has been.”  The U.S. military is working to remove its remaining 8,000
military personnel and 5,000 contractors from Iraq as the year-
end deadline nears. That’s down from a peak of about 300,000
Americans in Iraq in 2007, including almost 170,000 uniformed
personnel as well as civilians and contractors.  The number of American military bases in Iraq has plummeted
to five from 505 at the peak, said Lieutenant General Frank
Helmick, the deputy commander of American Forces in the country.
They have fewer than 1,000 truckloads of equipment left to
remove before the final exit, he said.  Helmick told reporters at the Pentagon yesterday that
violence in Iraq “is at an all-time low” since the invasion to
less than 50 attacks per week compared with a peak of 1,600.  “We enabled and facilitated elections,” he said. “We’ve
built a military.”  U.S. Presence  After the troop exit, the U.S. presence will consist mainly
of the Embassy in  Baghdad  and its affiliated consulates and
other offices. About 16,000 personnel will serve under the
embassy’s umbrella next year, according to State Department
figures. About 1,700 of them will include diplomats and subject-
matter experts in fields such as business and agriculture as
well as law enforcement officers, while 5,000 will be security
contractors to guard staff and facilities.  The U.S. military also will continue coordination with Iraq
such as port visits and joint exercises. Whether and how Iraq
might enlist the U.S. in helping defend its air space will
depend on what Iraqi officials decide, Helmick said. The U.S.
has thousands of forces elsewhere in the region, including in
neighboring  Kuwait , as well as aircraft carriers off the coasts.  Still, Iranian influence has grown and gaps remain in the
strength of the country’s leadership as well as its security
forces.  Fractured Coalition  Maliki still hasn’t reached agreement among his fractured
coalition to name new ministers for defense and the interior,
more than a year since forming a government. Exhortations to
make the appointments from U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
on his first visit in his new post in July went unheeded, as did
the urging of Vice President  Joe Biden , who visited Iraq last
week.  Attacks by Iranian-backed militias, al-Qaeda in Iraq and
weak management and logistics in the police and army continue to
undermine internal security. The country’s air defenses are
mostly nonexistent, and command of intelligence, surveillance
and reconnaissance capabilities remains weak.  “The stability of Iraq after the withdrawal of American
forces has been a major concern of both our nations,” Maliki
wrote in an op-ed in the  Washington  Post. “I believe in the
capabilities of our security forces and in the necessity of U.S.
assistance.”  ‘Question Mark’  “We really don’t know what’s going to happen,” Helmick
said. “There is a question mark right now for external
security. But for the internal security, we’ve done all we can
do.”  The war also has had its impact on the American fighting
men and women, who returned home scarred physically or with
post-traumatic stress. A program called “Operation New Exit”
aims to bring service members back to Iraq who were evacuated
because of injuries, so they can leave formally and with
dignity.  Cordesman said that, while there has been progress, there
is “very little prospect” that tensions between Sunnis and
Shiites, or governance questions will resolve themselves
quickly: “This is a government finding its way.”  Cordesman said Biden made clear the U.S. remains committed
to Iraq’s transition and that that the withdrawal of combat
troops always envisioned a presence for training and
contingencies.  ‘Arab Winter’  “A lot of this is, how willing are the  United States  and
Iraq willing to play around with semantics, diplomatic immunity,
and how important is it for Iraq to be able to assert its
independence?” Cordesman said.  “From the U.S. viewpoint you want to have a presence that
can counter  Iran ’s influence,” Cordesman said. “It isn’t now
simply the future of Iraq, but the future of  Syria . The issue is
regional security. It is the Arab Winter.”  Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff and Obama’s top military adviser, has said while U.S.
commanders favored leaving as many as 16,000 troops in Iraq,
they wouldn’t consider that option without immunity. Panetta has
said the U.S. will still have 40,000 American troops nearby in
the Gulf region after the mission ends.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  