-- 
Obama and Romney Speeches Tell Tale of the Campaign Ahead: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-12-08T01:03:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/obama-and-romney-speeches-tell-a-tale-of-the-crucial-campaign-ahead-view.html
President  Barack Obama  traveled this
week to Osawatomie, Kansas, to sound the trumpet for next year’s
election. Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney responded
the next day with his own clarion call before the Republican
Jewish Coalition in  Washington .  The competing visions the candidates presented were
incomplete; neither man offered a program for economic
resurgence. But each articulated his side of a philosophical
debate that is both grounded in the nation’s past and central to
its future.  Peel back the layers of the Obama  speech , and you’ll see
that the president staked his claim on fairness. “This country
succeeds when everyone gets a fair shot, when everyone does
their fair share and when everyone plays by the same rules,” the
president said. He had chosen the speech’s location --  Kansas  is
no one’s idea of a swing state -- for its historical resonance.
It was the site of  Theodore Roosevelt ’s “New Nationalism” speech
in 1910, in which the then-former Republican president laid out
a progressive vision for the country.  Peel back the layers of the Romney  speech , and you’ll see
that he championed “a merit-based opportunity society” in which
“people achieve success and rewards through hard work,
education, risk-taking and even a little luck.” He contrasted
that with what he called Obama’s “entitlement society,” in which
“everyone receives the same or similar rewards, regardless of
education, effort and willingness to take risk.”  No amount of caricature, by either side, can obscure the
fact that these competing visions of American society are real.
Melding them in greater (the New Deal) or lesser (Reaganomics)
degree has been the central pursuit of U.S. domestic politics
for more than a century. With an evenly divided country -- and a
bitterly divided Congress -- that melding process has recently
run aground, producing gridlock, stasis and frustration.  Neither Obama nor Romney, or any other candidate, has
managed to show the way home -- not just to a fairer  tax system 
and a responsible regulatory regime, on one hand, or to a
private sector unfettered by government burdens, on the other,
but also to the kind of broad prosperity Americans crave, one
based on a strengthened middle class capable of meeting the
global competitive and technological challenges of the 21st
century.  Still, it’s heartening that both the president and a
leading Republican contender recognize the need to go big this
time, and it seems likely that  Newt Gingrich  or another
Republican nominee would be similarly inclined. The Obama-Romney
call-and-response certainly seemed a sign that there will be no
place in the 2012 election for school uniforms or flag
factories. As chief Obama strategist  David Axelrod  said in a
visit yesterday to Bloomberg View, the contest is about “the
great challenges facing this country.”  Candidates for president and their strategists always say
that sort of thing. This election, there is reason to believe
them.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 