-- 
Obama Says Critics Should Ask Bin Laden About ‘Appeasement’

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-12-08T17:51:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/obama-says-critics-should-ask-bin-laden-about-appeasement-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  pushed back
against Republicans’ criticism of his foreign policy, saying
they should ask  Osama bin Laden  “whether I engage in
appeasement.”  At a forum yesterday, former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney  echoed remarks by several Republican candidates running
for their party’s presidential nomination, saying that Obama
adopted “a course of appeasement” that has weakened the U.S.
military and caused the U.S. to shirk commitments to allies.  Obama responded during a question-and-answer session with
reporters in the White House briefing room, citing action by
U.S. forces under his orders to kill bin Laden and other al-
Qaeda leaders.  “Ask Osama bin Laden and the 22 out of 30 top al-Qaeda
leaders who’ve been taken off the field whether I engage in
appeasement, or whoever’s left out there,” Obama said. “Ask
them about that.”  U.S. forces crossed the border from  Afghanistan  into
Pakistan in an early morning raid in May to kill bin Laden.  Republican candidates have attacked Obama’s foreign policy
as being insufficiently muscular and attempted to make Israel an
issue in the 2012 campaign as they seek support of Jewish voters
who historically have backed Democrats.  Republican Critics  Addressing a Republican Jewish group in Washington
yesterday, the candidates said Obama has coddled Iran,
emboldened terrorist groups and bestowed more sympathy on
Palestinians than Israelis.  “This one-sided, continuing pressure that says it’s always
the Israelis’ fault no matter how bad the other side is has got
to stop,” said former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , whose
support in the polls is surging.  Gingrich and Romney also called for the overthrow of
Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad   Obama repeated his position that he is keeping “all
options” are on the table as he moves to prevent Iran from
obtaining a nuclear weapon. He said his administration has
secured the tighter international economic sanctions against
Iran.  Obama won election in 2008 with 78 percent support from
Jewish voters, according to national exit polls. The Republican
goal is to win increased support from Jewish Democrats and
independents to help the party carry swing states, including
 Florida .  According to the National Jewish Democratic Council, a 10
percent decline in Jewish support for the party could shift the
vote by 98,000 in Florida, 35,000 in Pennsylvania, 18,000 in
Ohio and 8,500 in Nevada, states targeted as battlegrounds in
the 2012 presidential election.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  