-- 
Oil Retreats in New York as ECB’s Draghi Damps Bond-Purchase Speculation

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-12-08T20:41:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/oil-retreats-in-new-york-after-ecb-president-draghi-damps-bond-buy-bets.html
Oil declined the most in three weeks
as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  signaled the ECB
won’t increase government bond purchases to end the debt crisis.  Futures fell 2.1 percent after Draghi said the ECB’s bond-
purchase program was “neither eternal nor infinite,” damping
speculation that the bank will buy more debt. Oil rose earlier
as the ECB lowered  interest rates  and the number of Americans
seeking jobless benefits fell.  “The market hit the skids once Draghi spoke,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence Investment
Management in  St. Louis , which oversees $1.3 billion.
“Everything is on a knife’s edge. If we wake up tomorrow to an
agreement at the European summit and calming words from the ECB,
oil could be up a couple of dollars.”  Crude oil for January delivery dropped $2.15 to $98.34 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Nov. 28. It was the biggest decline since Nov.
17. Futures are up 7.6 percent this year after advancing 15
percent in 2010.  Brent oil for January settlement declined $1.42, or 1.3
percent, to end the session at $108.11 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. It was the lowest close since
Nov. 25.  Draghi kept the focus on Europe’s political leaders to
solve the two-year-old debt crisis by repeating his call for a
“fiscal compact” in comments made in  Frankfurt . He denied
hinting that the ECB would automatically support such an
initiative with more bond purchases. European leaders are
gathering in Brussels for a summit.  Market ‘Spooked’  “The ECB president’s comments clearly spooked the market,
because we reversed course as soon as they were made,” said
 Addison Armstrong , director of market research at Tradition
Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We had some great U.S. jobs
numbers this morning, but that didn’t matter after Draghi made
his comments.”  Commodities extended declines as the European Banking
Authority said the region’s banks will need to raise 114.7
billion euros ($153 billion) in fresh capital, up from a
previous estimate of 106 billion euros.  The European Union may announce further efforts to halt the
sovereign-debt crisis at the Brussels summit. German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  played down hopes by saying there will be no
“big-bang” solution for Europe’s woes at the summit. The
meeting will be “one stop” along the way to ending them, she
said today in the French port of Marseille.  “If the ECB were to continue buying bonds, the pressure on
certain members to reform would be reduced,” O’Grady said.
“This may be choreographed because the Germans want to ensure
the pressure stays on.”  Anticipated Slowdown  Concern that the European crisis may trigger a global
economic decline has led to a drawdown of crude inventories,
creating vulnerability to supply shocks,  David Greely , head of
energy research at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  New York .  “The physical markets are telegraphing severe tightness,”
Greely said at the Inside Commodities conference today in New
York. Oil may rise if Europe resolves its financial woes and
demand returns, he said.  U.S.  oil supplies  dropped 6.22 million barrels to 330.8
million in the week ended Nov. 18, the lowest level since
January 2010, according to the Energy Department. Inventories
rose the past two weeks to 336.1 million.  The Frankfurt-based ECB cut its benchmark rate by a quarter
percentage point to 1 percent, matching a record low. It
introduced new three-year loans for banks and loosened the
collateral criteria it imposes when lending.  Jobless Claims  The U.S. Labor Department said jobless claims dropped by
23,000 to 381,000 in the week ended Dec. 3, the fewest since
February. The median forecast of 47 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey called for a drop to 395,000.  Oil in New York has ranged from $94.99 to $103.37 since
Nov. 10. Brent futures have traded in a $10.83 span for two
months.  “We’ve been range-bound for a couple of weeks, and in the
case of Brent for a couple of months,” said  Michael Wittner ,
the head of oil-market research at Societe Generale SA in New
York. “The market has been pushed around wildly within that
wide range by developments in the euro-zone, sentiment and risk
sentiment. The limits of the range are set by fundamentals.”  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest crude exporter, will
produce “whatever the customers want” after pumping 10 million
barrels a day last month, Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said in
Durban,  South Africa , today. He will meet with other
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ministers next
week in Vienna to discuss output targets.  The kingdom seeks to have a spare oil production capacity
of 1.5 million to 2 million barrels a day, al-Naimi said.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 558,749
contracts as of 3:14 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 752,889
contracts yesterday, the highest level since Nov. 17 and 14
percent above the three-month average. Open interest was 1.32
million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  