-- 
Oil at $150 Becomes Biggest Options Bet on Iran

-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 
2011-12-08T20:00:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/oil-at-150-becomes-biggest-options-bet-on-iran.html
The prospect of oil topping $150 a
barrel within a year has become the biggest bet in the options
market as the U.S. and  Europe  work to limit Iran’s crude sales.  The number of outstanding calls to buy oil at $150 next
December has jumped 29 percent since a Nov. 8 United Nations
inspectors’ report on the Persian Gulf country’s nuclear
program, to more than any other option on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The contracts equate to about 38 million
barrels of oil, or 43 percent of daily  global  demand, based on
data from the U.S. Energy Department.  “People are taking a long shot and buying cheap
insurance,” Fred Rigolini, vice president of Paramount Options
Inc. in New York, who has traded crude options for 23 years,
said in a telephone interview on Dec. 5. “They’ll probably play
this through the spring.”  The price of the $150 calls has risen 9.2 percent to $1.30
since the day before the UN report was published, outpacing the
3 percent gain in oil futures. Crude will surpass $250 a barrel
if nations threaten to ban purchases from  Iran , the Tehran-based
Shargh newspaper cited Ramin Mehmanparast, an Iranian foreign
ministry spokesman, as saying Dec. 4. Iran is OPEC’s second-
biggest producer.  Open interest, the number of contracts not closed or
delivered, in options to buy crude at $150 next December
increased 11 percent on Nov. 22 alone as the U.S., U.K. and
 Canada  imposed new sanctions on Iran’s financial system,
including measures that may make it more difficult for buyers to
pay for Iranian crude.  Outstanding Options  Outstanding options numbered 38,023 yesterday, data from
the Nymex show. The second-largest open interest was 35,453
puts, or bets to sell oil, for $80 in December 2012.  “The rise in open interest in deep out-of-the-money calls
reflects investors looking to either profit from an oil price
spike or to protect the rest of their portfolio if things do
take a turn for the worse,” Seth M. Kleinman, European head of
energy research at Citigroup Inc. in London, said in an e-mailed
report on Dec. 6.  A European ban on Iran’s exports still may not boost prices
because the Islamic republic’s remaining trading partners,
including China and  India , would have increased power to
negotiate discounts, depriving the country of cash while leaving
world supplies little changed,  Mark Dubowitz , director of the
Iran Energy Project at the Foundation for Defense of
Democracies, a policy group in  Washington  that supports
sanctions, said in a telephone interview last week.  U.S. Measure  The  U.S. Senate  unanimously approved a measure on Dec. 1
that, if enacted into law, ramps up sanctions against Iran’s
central bank and will increase financial obstacles to buying the
country’s crude. The Obama administration opposed the
legislation because it may drive oil costs higher.  West Texas Intermediate oil, the U.S. benchmark contract
for crude delivered to  Cushing, Oklahoma , advanced to a 31-month
high of $113.93 a barrel in April after uprisings toppled
leaders in Tunisia and Egypt and fighting to oust  Muammar Qaddafi  erupted in  Libya , disrupting exports from a country that
is home to Africa’s largest proved crude-oil reserves. Futures
for January delivery declined $2.15, or 2.1 percent, to $98.34 a
barrel at 10:35 a.m. in  New York  today.  Oil is Iran’s biggest export, earning the country $73
billion in 2010 and accounting for half of government revenue,
according to the  Energy Department  in Washington. The nation
produced about 3.56 million barrels a day in November, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg News. That’s more than the 3.12
million barrels a day of spare capacity available at the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Oil Industry  The U.S. and Europe are targeting Iran’s oil industry in an
effort to deprive President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s government of
cash to sustain its nuclear program. The  International Atomic
Energy Agency  said Nov. 8 that Iran continued working on nuclear
weapons at least until last year, including efforts to shrink a
Pakistani warhead design to fit atop its ballistic missiles.  “There’s a lot going on that has justifiably amped up the
security premium,”  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital
LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy, said in
a telephone interview on Dec. 5. “That’s why you see the
interest in the $150 strikes on these  call options .”  Demand for June $160 call options jumped after protesters
attacked the British embassy in Tehran on Nov. 29. Open interest
increased more than fourfold to 11,833, equivalent to more than
11.8 million barrels of crude, from 2,780 options the day
before.  Embassy Attack  The U.K. ordered Iran to close its  London  embassy and
withdraw its diplomats in response to the attack. Two days
later, the European Union expanded sanctions against Iran and
began considering a ban on imports of the country’s crude.  “The odds that something goes terribly wrong are
increasing,” Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at
Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis , which oversees
$1.3 billion, said in a telephone interview last week. “When
you have that, you get someone taking a flyer on $160 oil.”  The EU imported 450,000 barrels a day of Iranian oil from
January to June, which is about 3 percent of the  region’s needs ,
according to the Energy Department.  Iran supplied half of Turkey’s imports, 11 percent of
 China ’s, 11 percent of India’s and 10 percent of  Japan ’s, the
Energy Department said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  