-- 
Oil Heads for Weekly Decline on Concern Over Economic Growth, Europe Debt

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-12-09T09:57:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/oil-heads-for-biggest-weekly-drop-since-september-on-european-debt-crisis.html
Oil fell, heading for the biggest
weekly decline since September, as investors speculated that
 Europe ’s debt crisis will weaken the global economy and curb
demand for commodities.  Futures dropped as much as 0.8 percent after sliding 2.1
percent yesterday. Chinese industrial production slowed last
month and  Japan  said its economy grew less than initially
estimated last quarter. Oil briefly pared its decline after
euro-area countries agreed on measures to ease the region’s
crisis, while failing to reach an accord with all European Union
members. Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest crude exporter, is in
no rush to agree to new output quotas at an OPEC meeting Dec.
14, Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said.  “Europe is the driving feature of all these risk
markets,” said Ric Spooner, a chief analyst at CMC Markets in
Sydney. “The obvious implications for all commodity markets is
if we’re going to continue to have poor confidence levels, then
that’ll impact negatively on world demand and has the potential
to soften prices.”  Crude for January delivery fell as much as 79 cents to
$97.55 in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $98.01 at 9:50 a.m. London time. Prices are down 2.9
percent this week, poised for the biggest decline since the
period ended Sept. 23. Futures have gained 7.2 percent this year
after climbing 15 percent in 2010.  Brent oil for January settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange slid 37 cents, or 0.3 percent, to
$107.74 a barrel. The European benchmark contract was at a
premium of $9.61 to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate
grade. The spread was a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  China, Japan  Factory output in China, the world’s second-biggest crude
consumer, climbed 12.4 percent in November from a year earlier,
the lowest growth since August 2009, according to the nation’s
statistics bureau. Car sales rose 0.3 percent, the least in six
months, the  China  Association of Automobile Manufacturers said.
Japan’s economy grew at an annualized 5.6 percent pace last
quarter, compared with the government’s initial estimate of 6
percent.  European leaders agreed to add as much as 200 billion euros
($267 billion) to funds to fight the debt crisis and bowed to
demands from the  European Central Bank  to tighten rules to curb
deficits. ECB President  Mario Draghi  hailed the deal. Oil slid
yesterday after he signaled the bank won’t increase government
bond purchases.  Not Unanimous  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said the agreement doesn’t
cover all 27 members of the EU after British Prime Minister
 David Cameron  made “unacceptable” demands. Leaders would have
preferred a unanimous agreement on ways to strengthen the
region, according to European Commission President  Jose Barroso .  Oil also fell before the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries meets next week in Vienna. Group members
will probably fail to agree on new production quotas as  Saudi
Arabia  pumps crude at the fastest rate in more than 30 years and
 Iran  faces losing customers because of European sanctions,
according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Brent crude  is
down 9 percent since the last OPEC meeting on June 8.  European Union governments will consider imposing stiffer
sanctions on Iran amid “serious and deepening concerns” over
the country’s nuclear program, according to a draft EU summit
statement. Foreign ministers will decide on the next set of
sanctions Jan. 30, the statement showed. Japan’s government said
today that it issued new sanctions against Iran.  Iran pumped about 5 percent of the world’s crude last year,
based on BP Plc’s annual Statistical Review of World Energy. The
country is on the  Strait of Hormuz , through which about a fifth
of global oil supply is transported, according to the U.S.
Energy Department.  Technical Support  The EU nations accounted for about 16 percent of global oil
demand last year, China for 11 percent and Japan 5 percent,
according to BP. The U.S., the largest crude consumer, used 21
percent.  Oil in  New York  has technical support along the middle
Bollinger Band on the daily chart, around $97.60 a barrel,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Buy orders tend to be
clustered near chart-support levels.  Crude may fall next week on speculation European leaders
won’t calm market concern over the debt crisis, a Bloomberg News
survey showed. Eleven of 27 analysts and traders, or 41 percent,
forecast oil will decrease through Dec. 16. Nine respondents, or
33 percent, predicted futures will increase and seven estimated
there will be little change. Last week, 46 percent of survey
respondents projected a price drop.  Nymex will cut the margin requirement on crude and heating
oil futures from the close of business Dec. 12, CME Group Inc.,
the exchange’s parent company, said yesterday. The margin for
light sweet crude will be $7,560 per contract, 6.7 percent lower
than the current level. The exchange last reduced the margin to
$8,100 from $8,437.50 in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at   akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  