-- 
Olympus Said to Plan Meeting With Banks After Earnings Report

-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 
2011-12-08T08:44:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/olympus-said-to-plan-meeting-with-banks-after-earnings-report.html
Olympus Corp. (7733) , the Japanese camera
maker that covered up $1.5 billion in losses, will meet with its
lenders in Tokyo next week, two people familiar with knowledge
of the matter said.  The company will gather with banks on Dec. 16 at the Keio
Plaza Hotel in Shinjuku, near Olympus’s headquarters, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the meeting isn’t
public. Yasutoshi Fujiwara, an Olympus spokesman, declined to
comment.  It will be Olympus’s second meeting with its banks since
the company ousted former Chief Executive Officer  Michael Woodford  on Oct. 14, after he challenged its accounting.  Japan ’s
three biggest banks had a combined 235.2 billion yen ($3 billion)
of long-term loans outstanding to Olympus at the end of March,
according to the company’s June 29 financial statement.  Olympus plans to release first-half earnings by the Dec. 14
deadline set by the Tokyo Stock Exchange to avoid automatic
delisting. The company has shed more than half its market value
since Woodford was fired. The TSE said on Dec. 6 that Olympus
remains at risk of being removed from the bourse depending on
the scale of the restatement of results.  The camera maker being probed by Japanese, U.S. and U.K.
regulators for the alleged accounting irregularities, last met
with banks, including  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. and  Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. (8411) , on Nov. 16 to ask for their continued support.  Olympus gained 4.4 percent to 1,178 yen at the close of
Tokyo trading.  Reuters earlier today reported the company’s plan to meet
with lenders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  