-- 
Olympus Plunging Showcases Role for Alternate Venues: Chart of the Day

-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 
2011-12-08T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/olympus-trade-shows-role-for-alternate-venues-chart-of-the-day.html
Olympus Corp. (7733) ’s accounting scandal
has proven a boon for  Japan ’s alternative share markets, who
went on processing transactions in the stock even as the Tokyo
Stock Exchange halted trades to slow the company’s plunge.  The CHART OF THE DAY compares the volume of Olympus Corp.
shares traded on alternative venues with the number transacted
via the TSE over the last month. Off-exchange venues, which
normally process about 7.8 percent of Japanese equity trades,
handled 6.5 million shares of Olympus on Nov. 10, when the
weight of orders to sell forced the Tokyo bourse to cancel its
opening auction. That’s almost four times the number that
changed hands via the TSE that day, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “It was a very good thing for the alternative trading
systems in the Japanese market,” said Simmy Grewal, a London-
based market structure analyst at Aite Group LLC, in an e-mail
Dec. 7. “A lot of firms hadn’t looked at them before,
especially domestic firms. They had no need to look at them as
the majority of liquidity was on the TSE. But a scenario like
this, where people want to get out of the stock and can’t exit
through the main exchange, makes them think about things
differently.”  Olympus admitted to hiding about $1.5 billion in losses and
has been placed on two watchlists for delisting by the TSE. No
trades were executed via the main  Tokyo  bourse until 3 p.m. on
Nov. 10 after a rule was triggered that prevents any
transactions when supply and demand won’t match. The stock is
down 53 percent since the scandal began on Oct. 13.  Alternative venues such as SBI Japannext Co. and Nomura
Holdings Inc.’s Chi X Japan handled about 7.8 percent of total
daily share-trading volume in Japan during the last year, up
from less than 1 percent five years ago, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The Olympus case could change the way domestic investors
see the alternative venues,” said Kenichi Kubo, senior  fund
manager  at Tokio Marine Asset Management Co. who helps oversee
5.4 trillion yen ($69 billion) in Tokyo. “Previously, we saw
those venues as just providing off-regular-hours trading
services, but now we can regard them as something to provide
additional chances for trading.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in  Hong Kong  at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  