-- 
Olympus Investors May Use Proxy Access U.S. Reformers Seek to Pick Board

-- B y   D a v e   M c C o m b s
-- 
2011-12-08T04:48:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/olympus-shareholders-may-wield-proxy-rights.html
Olympus Corp. (7733)  shareholders may get to
exercise rights to nominate directors their U.S. counterparts
lack after ousted Chief Executive Officer  Michael Woodford  said
he would propose a new board without the approval of management.  Japanese rules allow shareholders to place nominees
directly on proxy ballots for a vote by all stock owners. The
right to nominate directors without management approval was
initially included in the Dodd-Frank Act financial reforms in
the U.S., then judged against in court.  Woodford is seeking a slate of new directors, a demand
echoed by an independent panel that called the Japanese camera
maker’s board “yes men” this week for failing to stop a $1.7
billion scheme to hide losses. Proxy access under  Japan ’s
Company Law may be the only tool Woodford, a Briton, has to
trump the power of management in a country where foreign
investors have been frustrated in attempts to pry control from
entrenched executives in takeovers.  “The Company Law has some very superior aspects in
Japan,” said Nicholas Benes, representative director of  The
Board Director Training Institute of Japan , a government-
certified non-profit group. For board nominations, “investors
would like to propose their own alternative. But they can’t do
that in the U.S. without mounting a very costly proxy battle,”
he said.  U.S. Reformers Denied  A federal appeals court in July struck down the Securities
and Exchange Commission’s so-called proxy access rule initially
included in Dodd-Frank.  Woodford, dismissed as Olympus CEO on Oct. 14, has said
company executives should have no say over board nominations
because they were involved in or tolerated malfeasance. The 30-
year Olympus veteran, promoted to CEO this year, was fired after
questioning $1.4 billion in takeover costs now at the center of
criminal investigations.  The shares gained 4.9 percent to 1,183 yen as of 1:39 p.m.
in  Tokyo . The company’s market value has dropped by more than
half since Woodford’s dismissal.  “It’s completely inappropriate for the current management
team, who are tainted by its past mistakes, to make choices
about the identity of new board members,” Woodford said in a
statement last week as he resigned from the board. “I intend to
liaise with all interested stakeholders with a view to
formulating a proposal for the constitution of a new board.”  Woodford has also said he would like his old job back.  Southeastern Asset Management Inc., Olympus’s largest
overseas shareholder, has joined the calls for a new board.  ‘Rotten to the Core’  “A new slate of directors proposed only by the current
board would not be sufficient,” Josh Shores, a London-based
principal at Southeastern, said by e-mail.  Three former Olympus chairmen and three senior aides were
“rotten to the core,” according to the report released Dec. 6
by the independent panel, set up by the company following
Woodford’s dismissal and allegations. Others involved in the
fraudulent accounting “should be fully eliminated,” it said.  “The entire board should be changed as they all share the
blame,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600 million
in Tokyo at  Ichiyoshi Investment Management (8624)  Co. “The managers
may have been foul, but Olympus’s main business is good.”  Olympus President Shuichi Takayama said yesterday
shareholders would get the chance by late February at the
earliest to vote on new directors, and on whether Woodford
should return.  ‘Shedding Light’  “Woodford did have a dogmatic style, but he also shed
light on the issue, and that is something not one of us could
do,” Takayama said. “He deserves recognition for doing that.”  Repeated attempts to reach Olympus executives involved in
the schemes at their homes have failed.  While U.S. shareholders lack the proxy access Japanese
investors have, boards in the U.S. have more independent
directors who wouldn’t hesitate to respond to fraud confessions,
Benes said.  “When there’s the kind of admitted malfeasance that we now
have in the Olympus case, independent directors would move very
quickly,” said Benes. U.S. directors would “act as quickly as
possible to get rid of all managers who had been involved in
malfeasance and replace them and that would frankly, undoubtedly
in this case, include anyone who for whatever reason voted to
terminate Mr. Woodford.”  Olympus has reported that three, or 20 percent, of its 15
directors are independent. The designation doesn’t always
reflect the necessary distance from management, Benes said.  U.S. Reform Advocates  Corporate governance reform advocates in the U.S.,
including former New York City Councilwoman Melinda Katz, have
said proxy access would allow them to select more accountable
directors.  “Many boards remain too unaccountable to shareholders for
the decisions they make,” Katz wrote in comments to the SEC on
a proposal to include proxy access in Dodd-Frank. “The proposed
rule changes would give shareholders a greater say in the
governance of public corporations and a way to nominate as many
as one-fourth of a company’s directors.”  Chief executives including  Robert McDonald  of  Procter &
Gamble (PG)  have said the costs of proxy access for shareholders
outweigh its benefits.  Short-Term Results  “Proxy access will exacerbate the push toward short-term
financial results rather than the creation of long-term
 shareholder value ,” McDonald wrote in a letter to the SEC
available on the regulator’s website.  The scale of the fraud and failure of Olympus’s board to
stem it eroded all Japanese companies’ credibility and
highlighted the need to break from a tradition where deference
to superiors prevents employees from “rocking the boat,” the
Dec. 6 panel report said.  The study found failings at all levels in the corporate
governance structure, including the auditing of accounts by the
local affiliates of KPMG LLP and Ernst & Young LLP.  “There were a lot of yes men among the directors,” it
said. “The board had become a mere formality.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story: Dave McCombs
at   dmccombs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ; 