-- 
Once-Ascendant Corzine Returns to Congress as Suspect in MF Global Failure

-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-12-08T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/once-ascendant-corzine-returns-to-congress-as-suspect-in-mf-global-failure.html
This isn’t the usual way a former
U.S. senator returns to  Capitol Hill  -- on the receiving end of
a subpoena.  Jon S. Corzine, who once straddled the heights of finance
and politics as co-chief executive officer of  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and a Democratic governor and senator from  New
Jersey , is set to appear today before the House Agriculture
Committee. It’s the first of three panels that compelled him to
testify about the collapse of  MF Global Holdings Ltd ., the firm
he was trying to build into a Wall Street powerhouse.  Lawmakers, federal regulators and the  Justice Department 
are all investigating MF Global’s demise and trying to find as
much as $1.2 billion in customer funds that have gone missing.  Corzine, 64, who has been publicly silent since he issued a
Nov. 4 statement resigning from the bankrupt firm, must weigh
his potential legal liability in deciding whether to answer
lawmakers’ questions or invoke his right against self-
incrimination. While he hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing,
analysts said they’d advise Corzine to keep quiet.  “It is much better to suffer some public shame than go to
jail,” said Mark Corallo, a public relations specialist in
 Washington  who as a Republican congressional and Justice
Department staff member worked on numerous high-profile
investigations.  “While it’s a natural tendency of a public figure to worry
about his image, he should be much more concerned about his
legal status,” Corallo said.  Vanished Funds  Lawmakers have pledged to ignore Corzine’s resume and his
Capitol Hill ties when they grill him about his stewardship of
MF Global and the funds that vanished on his watch.  “We need to demonstrate to the American people that nobody
is above the law,” Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas
Republican who is set to question Corzine at today’s hearing,
said in an interview.  Corzine will face the committee as the first ex-senator in
103 years to be subpoenaed by Congress. Adding to the day’s
political tension is his background as a former top fundraiser
for President  Barack Obama . Lawmakers also have been hearing
from some of the 1,000 people who lost their jobs in MF Global’s
failure and from some of the thousands of customers, including
farmers, who used the firm to trade futures.  “It’s not going to be easy for him,” said Mark Oesterle,
a counsel at the Reed Smith law firm in Washington, who was the
Republican chief counsel on the Senate Banking Committee.  ‘Troubling’ Images  Images like Corzine leaning back “talking to counsel or
even pleading the Fifth, would be especially troubling in light
of his background as a former senator and governor,” Oesterle
noted.  With the election just a year away, national politics are
also playing a role in Corzine’s troubles. The National
Republican Congressional Committee yesterday seized on the
issue, demanding that “Democrats return their scandal-tarnished
campaign cash” that Corzine “earned by shortchanging American
farmers and families.” This year, Corzine gave campaign
contributions to Democrats including $15,000 to the Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee and $5,000 to Obama’s
reelection, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  Democrats, meanwhile, have distanced themselves from their
former colleague. Senator  Debbie Stabenow , the Michigan Democrat
who heads the Senate Agriculture Committee and served alongside
Corzine, pushed her panel to subpoena him. And in a House
Financial Services subcommittee meeting yesterday, all seven
Democrats that attended voted with eight Republicans to compel
Corzine to appear.  Loss to Christie  “I don’t know if this subpoena will actually produce much
but we have an obligation to do it, and we will” said Michael Capuano, a Massachusetts Democrat, at yesterday’s vote.  Until his November 2009 loss to Republican  Chris Christie 
in the New Jersey governor’s race, Corzine’s image had been
largely one of success.  Corzine spent 24 years at Goldman Sachs, rising to become
chief executive officer and then co-head of the firm with  Henry Paulson . Paulson, who later became Treasury secretary,
ultimately pushed Corzine out in an internal power struggle.  He left Goldman Sachs in 1999 with an estimated $400
million as the firm went public. He quickly turned to politics,
winning election to the Senate in 2000. After five years in
Washington, Corzine became New Jersey’s governor in 2006.  Appointment Cheered  Corzine was named chairman and CEO of MF Global in March
2010 and he quickly began to remake the staid futures brokerage
firm into a smaller version of an investment bank, much like the
Goldman Sachs he had grown up in.  The financial industry cheered Corzine’s appointment at MF
Global; the firm’s stock rose 15 percent the week he was hired.
The firm had reported a loss in the four quarters prior to
Corzine’s hiring.  Central to his strategy for turning around MF Global,
Corzine promised to bulk up principal trading, or the use of the
firm’s own capital to make deals for itself and clients.  In the latter half of 2010, within months of taking the
helm, he started buying Italian and Spanish bonds, as well as
those of Portugal, Ireland and  Belgium .  By the time of MF Global’s demise, Corzine had bet $11.5
billion on European sovereign debt, almost twice the net amount
disclosed to investors.  Board Resistance  Corzine overcame resistance from directors, senior traders
and risk managers to accumulate the bonds, according to two
people with knowledge of the situation. He used short-term
hedges, or offsetting trades, to cut the net risk reported to
shareholders to $6.4 billion, according to an Aug. 3 regulatory
filing by the company.  Corzine has been out of the public eye since he resigned
from MF Global days after it filed for  bankruptcy protection . He
has hired attorney Andrew Levander, a partner in the law firm
 Dechert LLP . Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for Corzine, declined
to comment yesterday on his appearances before Congress.  Corzine has the constitutional right not to answer
questions where his response could lead to criminal charges
being filed against him. Congress could also offer Corzine
immunity from prosecution for his testimony, though white collar
defense lawyers said that wasn’t likely to happen.  Congressional immunity “normally presents significant
problems” for prosecutors, said  Robert Bennett , a partner at
 Hogan Lovells  in Washington.  ‘Tainted’  If a person has testified with immunity, the government in
bringing its case would have to show that it was “not connected
to” or “tainted” by the congressional testimony, Bennett
said.  Attorneys who specialize in congressional investigations
said they expect Corzine’s silence will continue.  “Given the pending criminal inquiries, I’d advise him to
take the Fifth,” said Mark Paoletta, former chief counsel for
the House Energy and Commerce Committee who is now a partner at
the Dickstein Shapiro law firm in Washington. “There’s too much
potential downside to testifying.”  Lawmakers, in interviews last night, said they hoped that
would not be the case.  “I hope he is coming to answer questions, but he, like
every American, has the Fifth Amendment protections that are
available to him,” Representative K. Michael Conaway, a Texas
Republican, said in an interview yesterday. “We’re trying to
craft questions that we think he can answer without his lawyer
setting his hair on fire.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  