-- 
London & Stamford Falls Most in 4 Years on GE Sale Plan

-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 
2011-12-08T16:49:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/london-stamford-falls-most-in-4-years-on-ge-asset-s-plans-to-slash-stake.html
London & Stamford Property Plc (LSP)  fell
the most in more than four years after the company’s biggest
shareholder, GE Asset Management Inc., said it plans to reduce
its holding by almost 70 percent.  The stock dropped as much as 13.2 percent in London trading
to 100 pence, the most since November 2007. It closed down 7.6
percent at 106.5 pence, the lowest since March 18, 2009.  The unit of Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric
Co. plans to sell a total of 50 million shares, or a 9.2 percent
stake, according to a statement today. Based on London &
Stamford’s closing price yesterday, the holding would be valued
at 57.8 million pounds ($90.8 million). GE Asset Management,
which is acting on behalf of the General Electric Pension Trust,
didn’t say why it planned the sale.  GE Asset Management “may think real estate will
underperform as access to debt finance becomes more
challenging,” said Andrew Saunders, an analyst at Panmure
Gordon.  Guernsey-based London &  Stamford  owns 15.7 percent of
Meadowhall in Sheffield,  England , one of the U.K.’s biggest
shopping malls. The company reported a first-half net loss of
5.3 million pounds for the six months through September,
compared with a year-earlier profit of 16.3 million pounds, on
rising administrative costs and a fall in the value of its
properties. The stock fell more than 12 percent in the 12 months
through yesterday.  Long-Term Bet  “If the placement price provides investors with an
opportunity to acquire the stock close to our target price, then
we would expect the subscription to be attractive for longer-
term holders looking for yield,” Sue Munden, an analyst at
 Seymour Pierce , said in a note this morning.  Munden on Nov. 28 recommended that investors reduce their
stakes in the developer because of falling profits and the
expectations that property values may fall or fail to rise. She
gave a target price of 102 pence.  London & Stamford was downgraded to “hold” from “buy”
today by Miranda Cockburn at Oriel Securities prior to GE Asset
Management’s announcement. The firm revised its forecasts to
reflect “an environment where there is little move in
investment yields,” setting a price target of 115 pence.  GE Asset Management currently holds 13.6 percent of London
& Stamford, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Bookbuilding for the sale will begin immediately, it said.  The company has appointed Credit Suisse Group AG as lead
underwriter, it said in a statement. Peel Hunt and Credit Suisse
with act as joint lead managers, according to the filing. 