-- 
Hong Kong IPOs Prove Less Lucrative as Chinese Banks Take Share

-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-12-09T05:14:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/hong-kong-ipos-proving-less-lucrative.html
Hong Kong ’s market for initial public
offerings is becoming less profitable for investment banks as a
record number of underwriters vie for fees.  IPOs that raised at least $500 million counted an average
of 5.3 advisers this year, compared with 3.1 in the past decade,
and the most since Bloomberg began tracking the data in 1999.
That’s exacerbating a slump in sales that compressed total fees
in the city to $456 million, less than a third of those in China
or New York, according to researcher Freeman & Co.  Competition is increasing as Chinese securities firms, such
as China International Capital Corp., take more business from
Wall Street rivals, with their share of the market surging to a
five-year high as more mainland companies pursue Hong Kong IPOs,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Companies are also enlisting
more underwriters to ensure deals get done as markets fluctuate.  “Hong Kong’s IPO underwriting market is getting very
crowded,” said Arif Khurshed, a senior lecturer at the
Manchester Business School who studies IPOs in  Asia  and  Europe .
“Competition from Chinese securities firms is squeezing fees.”  Underwriters in Hong Kong are getting an average commission
of 2.2 percent of an IPO’s proceeds, compared with 3.5 percent a
decade ago, Bloomberg data show. By comparison, the average fee
for managing a U.S. initial offering is about 5.5 percent.  New China Life  Chinese banks captured a combined 30 percent of the Hong
Kong IPO market this year, the most since 2006, Bloomberg data
show. Beijing-based  CICC , which helped manage New China Life
Insurance Co.’s $1.9 billion IPO in Hong Kong and  Shanghai  this
week, is in third place, while Bank of China Ltd. ranks sixth
and China Construction Bank Corp. is ninth, the data show.  Of the 66 companies that went public in Hong Kong this
year, 36 were based in China, compared with 26 from Hong Kong
and four from other regions, Bloomberg data show. Chinese
companies accounted for six of the top 10 initial sales,
including the $1.2 billion offering of shares in  Sun Art Retail 
Group Ltd., the biggest hypermarket operator in China, and the
IPO of billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s Hui Xian Real Estate Investment
Trust, Hong Kong’s first stock sale denominated in yuan.  Chinese investment banks “saw opportunities as global
banks weakened in the crisis while they did well in China’s
domestic capital market, so they became ambitious about going
beyond the boundary,” said Fang Fang, chief executive officer
in China for New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which ranks
11th so far this year in Hong Kong initial public offerings.  Chinese Ambition  The firms, however, are missing out on some of Hong Kong’s
largest sales, including Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd.’s
IPO, which will raise about  $2 billion  after pricing today,
according to two people with knowledge of the deal. JPMorgan is
among seven underwriters on the sale, which lists no Chinese
banks.  On top of rising competition, volatile stock markets are
contributing to pressure on fees, said Josef Schuster, founder
of Chicago-based IPOX Schuster LLC, which oversees $2.5 billion.
The  Hang Seng Index  fell as much as 33 percent from its 2011
high in January and is down 17 percent so far this year.  “In a challenging market like this, companies are trying
to get as many underwriters as possible to optimize distribution
and reduce risk,” said Schuster, whose firm invests in IPOs
globally, including Hong Kong offerings. “It’s not like two
years ago when IPOs were just flying off the shelf.”  Fewer Deals  PCCW Ltd. (8) , Hong Kong’s largest phone carrier, hired eight
banks to manage the $1.2 billion IPO of some of its telecom
assets in November, while Sun Art used seven underwriters,
including Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and  UBS AG (UBSN) , for its
July stock sale. New China Life has enlisted eight banks for the
Hong Kong portion of its debut.  By comparison, Chinese retailer Belle International
Holdings Ltd. completed a $1.3 billion IPO four years ago with
just two underwriters.  Initial stock sales in Hong Kong have raised $17.7 billion
this year, the lowest amount since 2008, Bloomberg data show.
IPOs in the city raised $52 billion last year. At $456 million,
fees in the year through Dec. 5 are half the annual average for
the past five years, when Hong Kong generated $4.5 billion in
total IPO fees, behind  New York  and China, Freeman data show.  ‘Massive Opportunities’  While Hong Kong offerings are likely to rebound, increased
competition will remain as more Chinese banks seek to make
inroads in Hong Kong. Guosen Securities Co. and Haitong
International Securities Group Ltd., two of the 10 biggest IPO
underwriters in China, are expanding investment-banking
divisions in Hong Kong.  Guosen, based in Shenzhen, doubled headcount at its Hong
Kong operations to about 200 this year and is eying “massive
opportunities” outside China, CEO Lu Xiao Ning said in July.
Haitong Securities CEO Lin Yong said in April his firm would
“pay what’s needed” to lure talent as part of a plan to
increase its investment-banking team by 50 percent this year.  CICC led the $1.3 billion Hong Kong part of New  China 
Life’s IPO. The Chinese bank is acting as joint global
coordinator with UBS and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. China
Merchants Securities (HK) Co. is also on the deal. China’s CMB
International Ltd. is a joint bookrunner on the IPO of  Baoxin
Auto  Group Ltd. Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan led the deal.  “It is no longer as profitable as several years ago, when
Goldman Sachs et al were able to corner the big IPOs,” said
Francis Lun, managing director at Lyncean Holdings Ltd., a Hong
Kong-based brokerage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  