-- 
Obama Says He Backs Decision to Curb Teens Access to Morning-After Pill

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-12-08T19:25:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/morning-after-pill-curb-is-first-time-ever-fda-overruled-by-u-s-chief.html
President Barack Obama today backed
his health secretary’s decision to overrule U.S. drug regulators
and deny  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s request to sell
its emergency contraceptive pill Plan B over the counter.  Secretary of Health and Human Services  Kathleen Sebelius 
ordered  Margaret Hamburg , the Food and Drug Administration
chief, to reject the application by Petach Tikva, Israel-based
Teva, citing potential sales to girls younger than age 17.
Hamburg said she was ready yesterday to approve sales of Plan B
One-Step without a prescription to women of all ages based on
“science-based evidence.” The FDA said it was the first time
HHS has overruled an agency approval.  “When it comes to 12-year-olds or 13-year-olds, the
question is: Can we have confidence that they would potentially
use Plan B properly?” Obama said at a press conference, adding
that he wasn’t involved in the process.  Obama said that, as the father of two young daughters, he
supports Sebelius’s decision.  “It is commonly understood that there are significant
cognitive and behavioral differences between older adolescent
girls and the youngest girls of reproductive age, which I
believe are relevant to making this determination as to non-
prescription availability of this product for all ages,”
Sebelius  wrote  Hamburg in a memo yesterday.  Teva’s product reduces pregnancy risk if taken within three
days of sex. As a result of Sebelius’s order, the pill will
continue to be kept behind pharmacy counters and sold without
prescription only to women 17 and older. Younger girls may
obtain the drug with a doctor’s order.  Sales Estimate  Teva doesn’t specify sales from the contraceptive, instead
reporting 2010 revenue of $374 million for all its women’s
health products. Aaron Gal, a Sanford Bernstein analyst in New
York, estimated Plan B generates $60 million a year. Sales more
than doubled when it became available without prescription for
women 18 and older in 2006, the company has said.  Teva said in a  statement  it will determine its next steps
when it receives official notification of the decision. The
stock fell less than 1 percent to 150.20 shekels in  Tel Aviv .  Nancy Northup, president of the Center for Reproductive
Rights, compared the Obama administration to that of former
President  George W. Bush , saying both are guilty of “playing
politics with women’s health.”  “It is unacceptable that the approval for drugs supporting
women’s reproductive health is held to a completely different
standard,” she said in a statement.  Similar Feeling  Susan Wood, who resigned as the FDA’s women’s health
director in 2005 because of the delay in approving over-the-
counter emergency contraception, said she was shocked and
disturbed by the administration’s move.  “This question of blocking the whole thing, blocking even
this one product from going over the counter, is just too
reminiscent of what happened before,” she said in a telephone
interview. Wood called on Obama to order Sebelius to let the FDA
do its job.  “I was there when he signed a  memo  on scientific
integrity,” she said. “The people who have adequate expertise
as to whether there is sufficient data about this are the
scientists at the FDA.”  Wood was referring to a memo Obama wrote in March 2009, two
months after taking office. “Political officials should not
suppress or alter scientific or technological findings and
conclusions,” he wrote. “The public must be able to trust the
science and scientific process informing public policy
decisions.”  White House Role  “This is a very highly effective commissioner,” David Kessler, head of the FDA from 1990 to 1997, said in a telephone
interview. “We’ll all be served by her staying. But these
moments are no fun.”  Scott Gottlieb, former deputy commissioner for medical and
scientific affairs at FDA from 2005-2007, said he’d be surprised
if Hamburg stepped down over the difference with Sebelius.  “This is the secretary’s prerogative and, while
unprecedented in many respects, it’s well within the boundaries
of her authority,” Gottlieb, now a fellow with the Washington-
based  American Enterprise Institute , said in an e-mail. Erica
Jefferson, a spokeswoman for the FDA, said it’s the first time
the HHS has reversed an approval.  ‘Election-Year’ Decision  Representative Michael Burgess, a Texas Republican who
opposed approval of Plan B for over-the-counter use in teenagers
younger than 17, said he was pleased by the decision, though he
called it a political one by Democrats.  “It’s a presidential election year,” Burgess said in a
telephone interview. “This is a striking departure from where
congressional Democrats and the administration has been in the
past. I think it’s the correct answer; it just wasn’t what I
expected.”  Hamburg, in a  statement , said she was told of the decision
by Sebelius in the memo yesterday and was directed to reject
Teva’s request to expand Plan B’s over-the-counter availability
to females of all ages.  The decision follows by two years a federal court ruling
that age restrictions on the pill were arbitrary, based more on
political pressure than safety. On Dec. 13, the FDA is scheduled
to discuss its rulings involving emergency contraceptive
products in the Eastern District of  New York  federal court. The
civil case started with a 2001 petition by the New York-based
Center for Reproductive Rights.  Teenage Pregnancy Costs  U.S. girls ages 15 to 19  gave birth  to 39.1 babies per
1,000 females in 2009, an 8 percent decline from the previous
year and the lowest rate ever, according to the Atlanta-based
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  Teenage pregnancy and childbearing cost U.S. taxpayers an
estimated $10.9 billion in 2008, according to  report  released in
June by the National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned
Pregnancy, a nonprofit advocacy group based in Washington and
chaired by former New Jersey Republican Governor Thomas Kean.
The report’s estimate includes the cost of health and welfare
programs, incarceration and lost  tax revenue  from decreased
spending and earnings, the group said in a  statement .  Plan B is made with levongestrel, an ingredient found in
birth control pills, and is linked with side effects that can
include nausea, dizziness, changes in menstrual periods and
fatigue. Teva’s product competes with generic brands and  Watson
Pharmaceutical (WPI)  Inc.’s Ella.  Nancy Stanwood, a gynecologist at the Yale School of
Medicine in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , said the ruling was “really
unfortunate.”  “Younger women need emergency access because younger women
aren’t as effective at Plan A,” Stanwood said in a telephone
interview. “They might have a condom accident or forget to use
one.”  The case is Tummino v. Torti, 05-CV-366, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  