-- 
Los Angeles Dodgers Win Court’s Approval to Try to Sell TV Rights Early

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-12-09T16:08:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/los-angeles-dodgers-win-court-s-approval-to-try-to-sell-tv-rights-early.html
The  Los Angeles Dodgers  can try to
sell future television rights to the team’s baseball games
months earlier than their current contract with Fox Sports
allows, a judge ruled.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
yesterday overruled Fox’s objection to letting the team
negotiate with Fox’s competitors early. The TV rights could be
worth about $100 million a year, a consultant for Fox said in
court.  Competition for sports programming is driving up the price
companies are willing to pay for media rights, the consultant,
Edwin Desser, president of Desser Sports Media Inc., said in
court.  “Everyone agrees that times are pretty damn good right now
and we think it is time to capture it,” said  Bruce Bennett , an
attorney for the Dodgers. He said the goal of accelerating
negotiations for the TV rights is to increase the value of the
team.  The team filed for bankruptcy in June with plans to sell
the media rights to pay creditors and allow  Frank McCourt  to
retain his ownership. McCourt later agreed to sell the team
under a deal that ended a fight between Major League Baseball
and the Dodgers.  New TV Contract  Gregory W. Werkheiser, an attorney for Fox, a unit of New
York-based  News Corp. (NWSA) , said the company will appeal Gross’s
ruling. In the next few days, Fox and the Dodgers will try to
agree on whether negotiations for a new TV contract can begin
immediately or must wait for an appeal.  “While we are disappointed in the judge’s decision, we
understand the court process and will appeal this decision to
protect our contractual rights,” Chris Bellitti, a Fox
spokesman, said in an in e-mailed statement. “Those rights are
material and valuable, and the current owner accepted them as
binding when he purchased the team in 2004.”  Gross said he would take “a day or two” to write an
opinion justifying his ruling.  “The telecast rights are one of the Dodgers’ primary
assets and have enormous long-term value,” the team said in a
statement after the ruling.  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  is likely to bid for the rights,
partly because the company won the right to show future Los
Angeles Lakers’ basketball games on a new regional sports
network, Desser said. Desser helped the Lakers negotiate the new
TV deal with Time Warner, which replaced Fox Sports.  Exclusive Right  In a bankruptcy court hearing, the team and Fox Sports Net
West 2 LLC fought over the proposal to solicit bids for future
TV rights. Fox Sports can broadcast games through the 2013
season and had an exclusive right to negotiate a new contract
until Nov. 30, 2012, according to court records.  McCourt agreed to sell after the team ended its bankruptcy
court fight with  Major League Baseball . As part of that effort,
the Dodgers needed court permission to solicit bids on a new
media rights contract. The team may be worth about $1 billion,
according to court records filed by the Dodgers.  The approval to open negotiations early doesn’t guarantee a
sale of the rights.  Under the settlement between the Dodgers and MLB, no sale
of the TV rights can go forward without approval from MLB, Gross
and whoever wins the bidding for the team.  Fox Advantage  The former president of Fox Sports, Robert Thompson, said
in court that removing the exclusive negotiating right, and
other related terms, reduces the value of Fox’s current contract
by $75 million. Those negotiating rights gave Fox an advantage
over competitors, Thompson and Desser testified.  Fox argued in court papers that early negotiating would
give it the right to file a damages claim against the Dodgers
that would be so big the team’s other creditors wouldn’t be
repaid in full.  “There isn’t going to be a material damages claim,”
Bennett, the Dodgers’ attorney, said in court. “We are not
taking on cataclysmic risk.”  Under the Dodgers’ TV rights proposal, Gross would decide
how much, if any, money Fox is owed for early negotiations.  The early negotiating period would start with Fox getting
45 days to extend its current contract. That period began on
Nov. 30, Bennett said. Should those negotiations fail, the team
would seek other offers, according to court documents.  Meeting Sought  Werkheiser asked Gross to suspend the 45-day period until
the issues related to the appeal could be worked out. Gross
asked Fox and the Dodgers to meet.  “A pending appeal should have no impact on the marketing
procedures the judge said he would approve,” Bennett said.  Selling the rights early would be good for McCourt and not
necessarily good for a new buyer or Dodgers fans, said Marc Ganis, president of Chicago-based industry consultant Sportscorp
Ltd. Money from the sale would go to McCourt, preventing a new
owner from using it to upgrade the team’s roster or its stadium,
Ganis said.  “There will be less money available for players, stadium
renovation and security, and every other aspect of team
operations,” Ganis said.  Fox made similar arguments in court, while a Dodgers
attorney, Sidney Levinson, disputed the claim.  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  