-- 
Moscow Mayor Sobyanin Seeks Foreign Expertise for City Overhaul

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-12-08T11:10:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/moscow-mayor-sobyanin-seeks-foreign-expertise-for-city-overhaul.html
  Moscow  city hall will seek the
expertise of international architects and developers to help
draw up a plan for the capital’s biggest expansion in a half
century, Mayor  Sergei Sobyanin  said.  “This year we will announce a tender to create a
development concept for Moscow and the region as an
agglomeration,” Sobyanin said in an interview late yesterday in
his office in central Moscow. “Leading architectural companies
that deal with city development will take part.”  Moscow,  Europe ’s biggest city with a population of 11.5
million people, will more than double its territory by expanding
to the southeast, shifting federal ministries outside the city
center under a plan unveiled by President  Dmitry Medvedev  last
June. Relocating the government would ease congestion in Moscow
and spur infrastructure upgrades in the surrounding areas.  The municipal government will spend more than 1.5 trillion
rubles ($48 billion) on transportation development over the next
five years, Sobyanin said, giving priority to public transport.
The city will reconstruct all of its 19 motorways and the outer
ring road.  Within Next Year  “We should not regard Moscow in isolation from other
regions of the country, especially from the Moscow region,”
Sobyanin said. “Within the next year we need to decide how to
realize this project.”  Sobyanin has vowed to focus on easing transportation and
uprooting corruption after Medvedev last year ousted Yury Luzhkov, who had governed the city for 18 years. The local
government is hosting a two-day urban forum starting today where
Sobyanin will address planners, businessmen, architects and
experts from  Russia ,  Spain ,  France , the U.K. and  China .  By adding 1,600 square kilometers to its territory, Moscow
will try to break up its historical concentric layout, creating
governmental, business, educational and cultural clusters and
dispersing about 4 million people who commute to downtown Moscow
every day.  The city’s expansion effort won’t require an
“extraordinary” amount of financing, Sobyanin said, with
infrastructure investment covered via the federal budget and
contributions from the country’s monopolies and energy
companies. The Transportation Ministry and OAO Russian Railways,
the country’s rail operator, have agreed on financing roads and
railways, he said.  New Territories  The city’s new territories will accommodate 30 million
square meters of new housing and double the size of park zones,
Sobyanin said. Enlarging the city also dovetails with government
efforts to turn Moscow into a global financial hub.  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  said
earlier this year that traffic jams are the biggest obstacle to
bolstering Moscow’s role in international finance.  The average Muscovite motorist spent a “whopping” 2 1/2
hours stuck in traffic at least once in the last three years,
International Business Machines Corp. said in its first global
study on the “emotional and economic toll of commuting” last
year.  More than 40 percent of drivers in the Russian capital
reported jams exceeding 3 hours, or three times the average for
the 20 cities in the Commuter Pain report.  The city’s subway system will be extended by more than 30
stations with 500 billion rubles in planned investment over the
next five years, according to Sobyanin. Russian metro builders
may team up with international companies, Sobyanin said.  The city has no immediate borrowing plans but doesn’t rule
out attracting loans in the future, the mayor said.  “So far we are managing with our own resources,” Sobyanin
said, adding that Moscow’s current debt stands at 240 billion
rubles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  