-- 
Total, Suncor Win Approval for Joslyn Oil-Sands Project

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-12-08T21:25:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/total-suncor-win-approval-for-joslyn-oil-sands-project-3-.html
Canada’s Natural Resources Minister
Joe Oliver said  Total SA (FP)  and  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  can build the
C$9 billion ($8.8 billion) Joslyn oil-sands project after it
passed an environmental review.  Total last year bought stakes in Alberta oil-sands
developments from Suncor, forming a “strategic alliance” for
the Fort Hills, Joslyn and Voyageur projects. Oliver announced
the approval in Ottawa today.  “The environmental assessment has been completed,” Oliver
said. “Construction can proceed.”  Total, which is based in Paris, said last year it would pay
C$1.75 billion for 19.2 percent of Calgary-based Suncor’s stake
in the Fort Hills project. It has a 38.3 percent interest in
Joslyn as well as 49 percent in Suncor’s Voyageur upgrader
development near Fort McMurray. The plant will be able to
process 200,000 barrels a day of products including bitumen from
Total’s Fort Hills and Joslyn output.  “I’m very happy to get the necessary approvals to move
forward,” Jean-Michel Gires, chief executive officer of Total’s
Canadian operations, said in a conference call today. Production
should start in 2018, he said.  Oliver said he wants faster approvals of major projects,
saying the process should take about two years instead of the
six years needed for the Joslyn development.  ‘Unreasonable Delays’  “We need to put an end to unreasonable delays,” Oliver
told reporters. “Definitive timelines from beginning to end of
the regulatory process are needed to improve the timeliness and
predictability of the regulatory environment and to support
investment and planning decisions.”  The approval comes in the same week  Canada  said it won’t
enter into new commitments under the Kyoto climate-change treaty.
Canada may save as much as $6.7 billion by exiting the global
agreement and not paying for offset credits.  “Before boasting about the capital investments of oil-
sands expansion, Canada should be fulfilling its duties to
ensure a new monitoring system is implemented, greenhouse gas
emissions are regulated and species at risk, such as the
woodland caribou, are protected,” said Jennifer Grant, oil-
sands program director at the Pembina Institute in Calgary, a
research group focused on environmental and energy issues.  Alberta’s oil sands contain the biggest crude reserves
outside of  Saudi Arabia , according to government estimates.  Suncor fell 3.2 percent to C$29.54 at the close in Toronto.
Total declined 2.3 percent to 37.91 euros at the close in Paris.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  