-- 
Household Wealth Falls for Second Straight Quarter

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-12-08T17:12:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/household-wealth-in-u-s-falls-a-second-quarter-on-home-price-drop-europe.html
Household wealth in the U.S. fell
from July through September for a second straight quarter as the
European debt crisis depressed stocks and home values decreased.  Net worth  for households and non-profit groups decreased by
$2.45 trillion to $57.4 trillion, the  Federal Reserve  said today
in its flow of funds report from Washington. Americans reduced
debt in the third quarter, extending a string of declines dating
back three years.  A 14 percent slump in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the
worst quarter since 2008, combined with another decrease in
households’ real estate values in the third quarter. A rebound
in stocks at the end of this year and slower home-price declines
may help stabilize Americans’ balance sheets at the same time
employment growth picks up.  “We’re kind of in the third inning of the consumer
deleveraging at this point,” Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said
before the report. “Job growth suggests that we’ll see some
pace of increases in consumer income.”  The value of household real estate decreased by $98.3
billion in the third quarter after dropping by $37 billion in
the previous three months.  Owners’ equity as a share of total household real-estate
holdings was little changed at 38.7 percent last quarter,
today’s report showed.  Mortgages Outstanding  The volume of outstanding home mortgages was $9.93 trillion
at the end of the second quarter, the lowest since the end of
2006, according to separate Federal Reserve data. That means
U.S. mortgage debt, a driver of  consumer spending  during the
real estate boom, may be about to enter its fourth year of
decline as foreclosures wipe out home loans and housing
purchases fall.  The value of financial assets, including stocks and pension
fund holdings, held by American households decreased by $2.78
trillion in the third quarter, according to the flow of funds
data.  Household debt dropped at a 1.2 percent annual rate last
quarter. Mortgage borrowing decreased at a 1.8 percent pace.
Other forms of  consumer credit , including auto and student
loans, increased at a 1.2 percent pace.  Labor Market  Americans are reducing debt and rebuilding savings to
weather an  unemployment rate  that has averaged 9 percent this
year. Payrolls climbed by 120,000 in November and the jobless
rate fell to 8.6 percent, the lowest level since March 2009, the
Labor Department said on Dec. 2.  Ahead of the  holiday shopping season , consumers were
limiting their expenditures. Household spending slowed to a 0.1
percent gain in October, the smallest since a 0.2 percent drop
in June, according to Commerce Department data.  Today’s report also showed the balance sheets of businesses
are faring better relative to households. Companies had $2.11
trillion in cash and other liquid assets at the end of the third
quarter, up from $2.07 trillion in the prior three months.  Total non-financial debt last quarter rose at a 4.3 percent
annual pace, led by a 14.1 percent increase by the federal
government and a 3.5 percent gain among businesses. State and
local government borrowing was little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  