-- 
Houston Texans Sign Quarterback Jeff Garcia After Losing Schaub, Leinart

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-12-08T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/houston-texans-sign-quarterback-jeff-garcia-after-losing-schaub-leinart.html
The Houston Texans signed Jeff Garcia
as insurance after losing their first-string quarterback and his
backup to season-ending injuries.  T.J. Yates started Houston’s 17-10 win against the Atlanta
Falcons on Dec. 4 after backup  Matt Leinart  fractured his
collarbone -- two weeks after starter Matt Schaub broke a bone
in his right foot. Jake Delhomme, the other quarterback on the
roster, and Garcia tried out at the same time for the Texans’
backup job.  “I almost signed them both a week ago,” coach  Gary Kubiak 
said on the team’s website. “It’s just nice to be able to work
with both of them so we know we’ve got a little bit of a comfort
zone there.”  The Texans (9-3) have won six straight games to hold first
place in the four-team American Football Conference South
division. They’re chasing their first playoff spot since joining
the  National Football League  in 2002.  The 41-year-old Garcia, a four-time Pro Bowl selection,
played for Texans quarterbacks coach Greg Knapp when he was with
the San Francisco 49ers from 1999-03. He hasn’t been in the NFL
since he played with the  Philadelphia Eagles  for two weeks in
2009.  Garcia is the oldest player in the NFL after 43-year-old
punter Matt Turk, now his teammate, and 42-year-old New Orleans
Saints kicker John Kasay.  The Texans signed Turk, who was released by the
 Jacksonville Jaguars  after five games this season, after rookie
Brett Hartmann was placed on injured reserve on Dec. 6.  Turk played for the Texans from 2007-2010, averaging 42.2
yards per punt. Last season, he was the holder for kicker Neil Rackers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  