-- 
Panetta Supports F-35 After Report Urges Slowing Jet Purchases

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-12-08T21:51:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/panetta-supports-f-35-after-report-urges-slowing-jet-purchases.html
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
remains committed to the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35 jet, the
Pentagon’s largest weapons program, even as a new internal
report outlines technical problems, his spokesman said today.  “The secretary is aware of the report,” Panetta spokesman
 George Little  told reporters today. “He believes the F-35
program is important to pursue, that it will give us
capabilities we need to maintain our edge.”  The $382 billion program will produce as many as 420 of the
planned 2,443 aircraft for the Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps
while the program is still in development in the next several
years.  A team of Pentagon test, systems engineering and structural
experts concluded in the Nov. 29 report that “no fundamental
design risks” would prevent production of the jet for the  Air
Force , Navy and Marine Corps.  Still, the team urged the Pentagon to possibly slow down
the acquisition plan because the aircraft’s design has proven
more unstable during testing than anticipated.  The report identified 13 current or likely test issues of
varying severity, the combined impact of which “results in a
lack of confidence” in the aircraft’s design stability. They
included the Navy version’s tailhook for aircraft carrier
landings, the system for dumping extra fuel before landing,
excessive aircraft shaking during flight and deficiencies with
the pilot’s helmet-mounted display of flight information.  “Any large program generally has issues from time to
time,” Little said. “We are aware of certain issues with the
F-35, but we believe it’s important to continue to investment in
the program.”  Production Funding  The F-35 has had more retrofits and changes than planned
with “the most challenging portions of flight tests ahead,”
according to the 20-page report prepared for acting Pentagon
weapons buyer Frank Kendall. A stable aircraft design is less
likely to require numerous, potentially costly changes as test
issues emerge.  The assessment, obtained by Bloomberg News, concluded that
the combination of the required fixes and the lack of design
confidence “supports serious reconsideration of procurement and
production planning.”  The  Pentagon  estimates production funding will increase
from the requested $6.9 billion this fiscal year to $14.2
billion in fiscal 2016. The annual aircraft buy is planned to
increase to 108 aircraft in 2016 from 32 the current fiscal
year, which began Oct. 1.  Asked if the report it being factored into budget
deliberations, Little said “we obviously have to look at large
programs like the F-35” yet “we believe it is important to
retain the F-35 capability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  