-- 
Peru Keeps 4.25% Rate for Seventh Month on Inflation Concern

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-12-08T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/peru-keeps-4-25-rate-for-seventh-month-on-inflation-concern.html
Peru’s central bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a seventh month as the
need to bring inflation back to target outweighs concern about
slowing economic growth.  The seven-member board, led by central bank President Julio Velarde, yesterday left the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent,
matching the expectations of all 19 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg.  “This decision takes into account the slower growth being
observed in some spending components, the international
financial risks and that the increase in inflation primarily has
been the result of temporary supply factors,” the bank said in
a  statement  on its website announcing the decision.  Consumer prices climbed faster than economists expected
last month on rising food and fuel costs, indicating that the
central bank has little room to cut rate to arrest a slowdown in
investment that may worsen next year as social unrest thwarts
mining investment, said Alejandro Arreaza, an analyst at
Barclays Capital Inc.  The annual inflation rate rose to 4.64 percent, the highest
since April 2009 and up from 4.2 percent in October. The central
bank targets inflation of 1 percent to 3 percent.  Nader Nazmi, a senior  Latin America  economist at BNP,
detected a “subtle shift of attention from the external
conditions to inflation” in his reading of the bank’s
statement.  Risks, Investment Outlook  “It appears that the board is assessing risks to growth
and inflation as balanced and is signaling that it has entered a
new phase: future policy decisions will be based on incoming
data and the continuous evaluation of the balance of risk to
inflation and growth,” Nazmi wrote in a research note.  Peru’s outlook for growth, already weak since President
Ollanta Humala took office June 5, deteriorated further after
protesters caused  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  to halt a $4.8 billion
expansion last month, said Ruben Loaiza, chief executive officer
of AFP Prima,  Peru ’s biggest private pension fund.  “We saw 2012 as a year when investment could recover, but
these recent events makes one wonder if that will be the case,”
Loaiza said in a Dec. 3 interview.  The government declared a state of emergency Dec. 4 to end
local protests against the copper and gold mine that would be
Peru’s largest-ever investment project.  Though Humala has tried to allay concern he would reverse
economic policies that have fueled the fastest growth in Latin
America over the past decade, business confidence remains below
pre-election levels, said Arreaza.  Regional Contrast  Peru’s decision to leave rates unchanged contrasts with
 Brazil , which has cut borrowing costs three times since August.
Policy makers in Mexico and  Chile  have signaled they may do the
same as Europe’s debt crisis threatens to damp Latin America’s
commodity-dependent growth.  The sol rose to 2.6950 per  U.S. dollar  yesterday, its
strongest level since April 2008, as investors bet the economy
will withstand the global slowdown and the central bank will
take measures to prevent swings in the currency.  Peru’s economy has already showed signs of slowing in
recent months.  Annual private investment growth eased to 8.5 percent in
the third quarter, down from 16 percent in the previous three
months, the central bank said Nov. 25. Import and export growth
eased in October while expansion in credit was the slowest in a
year on weaker demand for business loans.  Gross domestic product will rise almost 7 percent this
year, before growth slows to 5 percent to 6 percent in 2012,
according to Finance Minister Miguel Castilla.  Bank’s ‘Options’  The government may expand a $3 billion spending program to
offset a “prolonged” global slowdown, he said in a Dec. 3
interview. GDP climbed 8.8 percent last year, the second-fastest
pace in 16 years.  The central bank increased its benchmark rate five times
between January and May, pushing it to a two-year high, to
contain inflation expectations. The bank has kept rates on hold
since June.  “The pause was initially due to concern that the political
context affecting demand and also because of the international
situation,” Velarde said in a Dec. 2 interview.  “Looking ahead, we don’t see any demand-related pressures
nor any of these pressures from food” that would cause
inflation to accelerate, he said. Inflation expectations are
“well anchored” in the target range, he added.  Interest rates may remain on hold until inflation slows or
 Europe ’s debt crisis has a clearer impact on the domestic
economy, Arreaza said.  Nazmi wrote that “the Banco Central de Reserva del Perú
wants to have all options on the table as we enter 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 