-- 
Petrobras Oil Seen Abundant From Brazil With Gigantic Helicopters: Freight

-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 
2011-12-08T02:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/petrobras-s-oil-seen-abundant-with-gigantic-helicopters-freight.html
Petroleo Brasilero SA (PETR4) , Latin
America’s largest company by market value, plans to boost oil
production by more than 50 percent over the next four years. To
do so, it needs helicopters bigger than houses and floating
platforms longer than two football fields.  The state-controlled  oil company ’s demand for heavy
helicopters, used to move equipment and workers to platforms
as far as 300 kilometers (186 miles) from the coast, will 
double in 2012 from 2011 and rise 350 percent over the next 
nine years, according to Barclay’s Capital. U.S. helicopter 
lessors  Bristow Group Inc. (BRS)  and  Seacor Holdings (CKH)  Inc. may 
benefit the most.  Petrobras, which produces 90 percent of Brazil’s crude, is
spending more than any other oil company as it seeks to develop
offshore fields located in the pre-salt area, so called because
the deposits lie below a layer of salt two kilometers thick. The
company has a $224.7 billion, five-year investment plan through
2015 to do so.  Repsol YPF SA (REP) ,  BG Group Plc  and  OGX Petroleo e
Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  also are seeking to develop the fields.  “Nowhere in the world looks like Brazil” for helicopter
and vessel companies offering support to off-shore drillers,
said James C. West, an analyst with Barclay’s Capital. “Winning
lease contracts from tenders announced recently by Petrobras,
and others expected early next year, would be a positive” for
Bristow and Seacor shares, he said in a Nov. 28 phone interview
from  New York .  Ocean Depths  Petrobras’s demand for rigs capable of drilling in ocean
depths of more than 2,000 meters is expected to grow by 147
percent between 2010 and 2015, to 37, according to a Sept. 25
presentation by Mauro Yuji Hayashi, the company’s exploration
and production pre-salt planning manager. The company’s heavy
helicopter needs will climb to more than 40 in 2012 from the
current 20, according to Barclay’s West.  A Sikorsky S-92 heavy helicopter costs $17.7 million,
according to the website Aircraftcompare.com.  Bristow’s global helicopter fleet numbers more than 550
worldwide, according to Senior Vice-President Mark Duncan, who
oversees new business. The Houston-based company has six leased
helicopters in  Brazil , all operated by Belo Horizonte-based
Lider Aviacao Holding SA, 42.5 percent owned by Bristow and the
country’s largest provider of helicopter services, Duncan said.  “We entered into Lider in 2009 when we saw the increased
demand in Brazil,” Duncan said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “We saw it as having growth potential similar to the
 North Sea  in the mid-1970s. The pre-salt will be a new
dimension.”  Recent Contract  Five more Bristow medium-size helicopters will start
operating in Brazil next year under a recent contract, Duncan
said. Petrobras has a bid in progress for six to eight heavy
helicopters. Such choppers generate average revenue of $1.5
million to $2 million per month, while prices in local markets
may vary widely, he said.  The total global fleet of helicopters servicing offshore
oil and gas companies is about 1600, Duncan said, estimating
annual revenue at about $4 billion.  Medium-size helicopters are used to fly 10 to 12 passengers
as far as 120 miles. To reach the pre-salt fields requires heavy
choppers than can handle 19 passengers. The Sikorsky S-92, which
Lider leases out, is about 18 meters (60 feet) long and 5.5
meters high.  Rio de Janeiro-based Petrobras declined to confirm how many
helicopters it will need in 2012 to “avoid influencing prices
offered in tenders,” the company’s press office said in an e-
mailed response to questions. The company currently has 91
choppers for off-shore activities, the statement said. It did
not address a question about the contract mentioned by Duncan.  Deepwater Support  Fort Lauderdale , Florida-based Seacor, which Barclay’s West
flagged as another company likely to benefit from the Brazil oil
boom, declined to comment in an e-mail message.  Seacor has a fleet of 177 helicopters, according to a Sept.
30, 2011,  presentation  for investors on the company’s website.
Heavy helicopters account for four percent of the fleet. Among
choppers used for deepwater support services, the company has
seven heavy and 34 medium-size, according to the presentation.
Seacor’s aviation unit had $235.4 million in revenue in 2010.  West has a positive rating on both Bristow and Seacor
stocks, which are down 1.7 percent and 13.7 percent this year,
respectively. The  Standard & Poor’s 600 Smallcap Index (SML)  has
fallen 0.3 percent.  David Wilson , an analyst with energy
investment firm Howard Weil Inc. in Houston, rates Bristow
“market perform.”  Floating Platform  At least one company is concerned about a possible shortage
of heavy helicopters in Brazil.  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , the shipyard
controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , is building two large
platforms for offshore drilling and plans to lease and operate
them.  The first platform, known as a floating, production,
storage and offloading unit, or FPSO, arrived in Rio de Janeiro
last month and is 271.5 meters long. Crews of 45 will have to be
shuttled on and off the platform every 15 days, said CEO Roberto Monteiro.  “Right now we don’t see a bottleneck for platforms
operating near the coast, but for the pre-salt there’s huge
bottlenecks because the helicopters must be able to come and go
300 kilometers each way, and there’s very few heavy helicopters
with that kind of range,” Monteiro said in a Dec. 1 phone
interview.  Madrid-based Repsol and Berkshire, U.K.-based BG are among
the foreign oil producers holding concessions for some of the
largest pre-salt reserves. OGX is the biggest Brazilian oil
company by  market value (IBOV)  after Petrobras, though it still has to
start producing oil.  Vessel Demand  Petrobras also projects a 67 percent increase in vessel
demand between 2010 and 2015 and the company is receiving
tenders for ships to renew its fleet, according to Barclay’s
West. Vessel support companies, including  Hornbeck Offshore
Services Inc. (HOS) ,  Gulfmark Offshore Inc. (GLF)  and  Tidewater Inc. (TDW) , may
benefit from the higher rig count in the next five years,
according to West.  The ships the company needs are so-called supply and
special vessels, used to support offshore oil platforms.  Wilson Sons Ltd. (WSON11) , South America’s biggest tugboat operator,
plans to increase its number of oil service vessels almost three
times to 30 by 2017, the company’s press office said in a
response to questions Nov. 30. Rio de Janeiro-based Wilson is
targeting orders from Petrobras, Chief Financial Officer Felipe Gutterres has said.  Prospects for Brazil’s offshore support industry make it
“one of the best in the world because of its sheer size, and
the willingness to get out there, put capital to work, and
drill,” said Howard Weil’s Wilson in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  