-- 
Pfizer Wins Review of Punitive-Damages Award in Prempro Case

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-12-08T19:57:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/pfizer-wins-review-of-punitive-damages-award-in-prempro-case.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, persuaded a Pennsylvania appeals court to review an
$8.6 million punitive-damages award to a woman who blamed her
cancer on the company’s menopause drugs.  The Pennsylvania Supreme Court  agreed to hear arguments by
Pfizer’s Wyeth unit that a judge erred in allowing a
Philadelphia jury to award punishment damages to Mary Daniel, a
former bank manager from  Arkansas  who sued the drugmaker
alleging its Prempro pills caused her breast cancer. Jurors also
awarded Daniel more than $1.6 million in compensatory damages on
her claim.  More than 6 million women took Prempro and related
menopause drugs to treat symptoms such as hot flashes and mood
swings before a 2002 study highlighted their links to cancer.
Wyeth’s sales of the medicines, which are still on the market,
topped $2 billion before the release of the  Women’s Health
Initiative , a National Institutes of Health-sponsored study.  “The company is pleased the Pennsylvania Supreme Court
will hear the company’s appeal regarding whether punitive
damages are warranted,” Chris Loder, a Pfizer spokesman, said
in an e-mailed statement today. “The company has said all along
that Wyeth acted responsibly” in its handling of the drug, he
added.  Until 1995, many menopausal women combined  Premarin ,
Wyeth’s estrogen-based drug, with progestin-laden  Provera , made
by Pfizer’s Upjohn unit, to relieve their symptoms. Wyeth
combined the two hormones in its  Prempro  pill.  Prempro Scorecard  Pfizer’s Wyeth and Pharmacia & Upjohn units have lost 10
out of the 18 Prempro cases that juries have considered since
trials began in 2006. The most recent verdict came earlier this
week when a Philadelphia jury awarded three women more than
$72 million in damages on their claims over the drugmaker’s
hormone-replacement medications.  The drugmaker has gotten some of those verdicts thrown out
after trial or had the awards reduced. It resolved some of the
verdicts through settlements, while other decisions are on
appeal. It also has persuaded some judges to throw cases out
before trial.  In Daniel’s case, jurors found Wyeth’s Prempro and Premarin
drugs were a cause of the woman’s cancer and awarded her a total
of $10.2 million in damages. A judge in the case later threw out
of the award.  Award Reinstated  Earlier this year, a lower Pennsylvania appeals court
reinstated Daniel’s jury award after finding the judge in the
case didn’t err in refusing to give a drugmaker a new trial.  The state’s highest appellate court agreed Dec. 5 to review
whether Daniel was entitled to receive punitive damages for a
product that had been approved by federal regulators.  “We are pleased the court declined to consider any issue
relating to Wyeth’s negligence in causing her  breast cancer  or
Mrs. Daniel’s compensatory award,”  Zoe Littlepage , one of the
woman’s lawyers, said in an e-mailed statement today.  The case is Daniel v. Wyeth, 040602368, Court of Common
Pleas (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  