-- 
Pfizer Settles Prempro Case After Losing $72.6 Million Verdict

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-12-09T05:19:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/pfizer-settles-prempro-case-that-produced-72-6-million-award.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, agreed to settle claims that its menopause drugs
caused cancer in three women who won a $72.6 million jury award
earlier this week, a lawyer said.  The New York-based company agreed to resolve claims by
Susan Elfont, Bernadette Kalenkoski and Judy Mulderig that
hormone-replacement drugs made by two Pfizer units caused their
breast cancer, Ted Meadows, a lawyer for the women, said in an
interview yesterday. A Philadelphia jury awarded the three women
$72.6 million in compensatory damages on Dec. 6.  “They’re just glad to be able to go on with their lives,”
said Meadows, who declined to disclose the amounts of the
settlements because they are confidential.  The accord comes a day before jurors were to begin hearing
testimony in a second phase of the case. The panel would have
been asked to decide whether Pfizer should face punitive damages
over its handling of the menopause drugs.  “The parties have entered into a mutual agreement to
resolve this case under confidential terms,” Chris Loder, a
Pfizer spokesman, said in a telephone interview. The earlier
verdict will be set aside as part of the settlement, he said.  More than 6 million women took Prempro and related
menopause drugs to treat symptoms such as hot flashes and mood
swings before a 2002 study highlighted their links to cancer.
Wyeth’s sales of the medicines, which are still on the market,
topped $2 billion before the release of the  Women’s Health
Initiative , a National Institutes of Health-sponsored study.  Menopause Drugs  Until 1995, many menopausal women combined  Premarin ,
Wyeth’s estrogen-based drug, with progestin-laden  Provera , made
by Pfizer’s Upjohn unit, to relieve their symptoms. Wyeth
combined the two hormones in its  Prempro  pill.  Pfizer’s Wyeth and Upjohn units have now lost 10 of the 18
Prempro cases decided by juries since trials began in 2006. The
drugmaker got some of those verdicts thrown out after trial or
had the awards reduced. It resolved some of the verdicts through
settlements, while other decisions are on appeal. Pfizer also
has had cases thrown out before trial.  Pfizer announced in May that it had settled a third of the
pending Prempro cases and had set aside $772 million to help
resolve the claims.  Elfont, 66, is a former teacher who once lived in Northeast
Philadelphia, Tobi Millrood, a lawyer for the three women, said
during the trial. She took Premarin and Provera for more than
two years before being diagnosed with breast cancer in 1997,
Millrood said. She now lives in  California .  Four Years  Kalenkoski, 68, is a former nursing home aide who took
Prempro for more than four years and was diagnosed with cancer
in 2002, Millrood said. Mulderig, 68, a retired teacher from
Carlisle,  Pennsylvania , took Premarin and Provera for 11 years
starting in 1988, the lawyer said.  The last Prempro verdict against the Pfizer units came a
year ago in  Puerto Rico , where a jury awarded $1.5 million in
damages to a pharmacist who took the menopause drug. The company
won the next two cases before yesterday’s verdict.  In another case, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court decided
Dec. 5 that it would hear Pfizer’s appeal of an $8.6 million
punitive damage award to another woman who sued over Prempro-
linked  breast cancer .  The  Philadelphia case  that settled is Elfont v. Wyeth
Pharmaceuticals Inc., 00924, Jury Term 2004, Philadelphia Court
of Common Pleas (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  