-- 
TPK Declines to Record Amid Concern Apple May Switch IPhone Technology

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-12-08T06:01:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/tpk-declines-to-record-amid-concern-apple-may-switch-technology.html
TPK Holding Co. (3673)  fell to a record low
in Taipei amid speculation  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , its largest client, may
switch to a new display technology in its next iPhone model.  TPK lost 6.7 percent to NT$359.50 at the close of trading
in Taipei, its lowest since listing in October last year, and
taking declines to 17 percent this week. The benchmark  Taiex (TWSE) 
dropped 0.7 percent today.  “There’s some concern in the market that Apple will switch
to a new technology called in-cell, which TPK doesn’t supply,
with a worst-case scenario resulting in as much as a 35 percent
revenue loss,” said Jamie Yeh, an analyst at Barclays Capital
in Taipei, who rates the stock “overweight.” “I don’t think
this switch is likely as the in-cell technology is not yet ready
for mass production.”  LG Display Co. (034220) , based in Seoul, is the major supplier of
in-cell technology which incorporates the touch-sensor built
directly into the display, compared with current methods which
add a touch-sensor on top of the screen.  “We acknowledge that it could be a potential new
technology in the future, yet we have solutions in place that
would limit any impact,” TPK’s Chief Financial Officer Freddie Liu said by phone today. Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-based spokeswoman
for Apple, didn’t answer calls to her mobile phone today.  “Investors worry that a shift to the new technology could
cut TPK out of Apple’s supply chain, yet there’s not been any
major breakthrough recently so I think it’s unlikely Apple will
use it in the immediate future,” said Lu Chialin, an analyst at
Samsung Securities Co. in  Hong Kong , who rates TPK “buy.”  Barclay’s Yeh estimates LG produces usable products on only
20 percent of its output of in-cell displays, compared with an
industry standard of more than 80 percent for current
technologies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 