-- 
Bernanke Favored by 71% in Investor Poll Preferring Fed Over ECB

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-12-08T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/poll-global-investors-prefer-fed-over-ecb.html
Federal Reserve Board Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s standing is soaring among global investors, who say
the U.S. central bank is outperforming its European counterpart
in economic crisis management, a Bloomberg poll shows.  Seventy-one percent now view Bernanke favorably, up from 60
percent three months ago, according to the quarterly poll of
1,097 Bloomberg customers who are investors, traders or analysts
conducted Dec. 5-6. That demonstrates broad support for a
central banker whose purchases of trillions of dollars in
housing and government debt have drawn attacks from Republicans.  “Bernanke’s leadership and sensible optimism are essential
during the recovery of the U.S. economy,” says Jennifer Howarth Lima, a respondent to the Bloomberg Global Poll and a fixed-
income trader for Banif Investment Bank in  Sao Paulo . “His
actions reflect that he is encouraged by signs of economic
growth, but wary of continued weakness in the labor market.”  President  Barack Obama  and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  also are gaining popularity among investors. Obama is
viewed favorably by 48 percent of poll respondents, up from 39
percent in September; Geithner is rated favorably by 53 percent,
up from 47 percent in September.  Geithner, who with Obama has pressed European leaders for
months to take more decisive action on sovereign debt, flew to
Germany, France and  Italy  this week to make the case to national
leaders for a stronger response to the debt crisis.  Fed Over ECB  The divergence of investor opinion on the U.S. and European
central banks is stark: Almost three-quarters say the  Federal
Reserve  has done a better job than the  European Central Bank  in
handling economic challenges. Only 13 percent rated the ECB the
superior performer. Still,  Mario Draghi , who took over as ECB
president last month, saw his favorability jump to 63 percent
from 36 percent in September.  The rising confidence in U.S. economic leaders mirrors a
shift in investor assessments of the country’s prospects. Fewer
than a quarter of poll respondents now say the U.S. will slip
back into recession within a year; less than three months ago,
half saw a double-dip on the horizon.  Since the last global poll on Sept. 26, the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 8.43 percent as of yesterday’s close in
 New York . The economy grew at an accelerated 2 percent rate in
the third quarter and the  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.6
percent in November from from 9.1 percent in September.  Operation Twist  During the period, the Fed has mounted its so-called
Operation Twist program to buy longer-term securities and sell
short-term instruments in a bid to lower borrowing costs and
propel economic growth. Bernanke said Nov. 2 that additional
monetary stimulus “remains on the table” as an option.  He hasn’t tipped his hand on whether he will press for a
third round of bond purchases in a tactic that has been dubbed
quantitative easing. The Fed bought a total of $2.3 trillion in
bonds in two rounds of quantitative easing from December 2008
until June 2011.  The Fed’s second round of asset purchases drew criticism
from Republicans in Congress, including House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  and Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of
Kentucky. Texas Governor Rick Perry, who is seeking the
Republican presidential nomination, said in August that it would
be “treasonous” for Bernanke to pursue further stimulus before
the 2012 elections.  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , another contender for
the Republican nomination, said in a Nov. 9 debate that Bernanke
“ought to be fired as rapidly as possible.”  Opposing Bond Purchases  Poll respondents are rooting against another round of
quantitative easing, with only 28 percent saying they support
more bond purchases next year to stimulate the economy.  A 51 percent majority also says the U.S. could better
promote economic growth with austerity measures, which would cut
the federal  budget deficit , rather than with more fiscal
stimulus such as tax cuts or additional  spending .  “Government spending is creating far too many distortions
in economic asset allocation,” says Josh Kalish, 39, a poll
respondent and vice president at Credit Suisse in New York. “By
reducing government expenditures we open the door to more
efficient and appropriate transactions that will generate
growth.”  Six of 10 global poll respondents say the U.S. should raise
taxes on the wealthy to close the deficit, an idea backed by
Obama. U.S. respondents diverged from their overseas
counterparts: 51 percent of U.S investors oppose higher taxes on
the rich, while 46 percent are in favor of that; 69 percent of
investors in other countries support the idea.  Hurdles Ahead  Obama’s popularity is rising in tandem among U.S. and
overseas respondents, though he’s still more popular among
investors in Europe and  Asia . Twenty-nine percent of U.S.
investors have a favorable view of the president, up from 17
percent in the last poll, while 59 percent of those overseas
have a positive view, up from 52 percent.  Poll respondents see plenty of obstacles confronting the
 U.S. economy . Chief among them is persistently high
 unemployment , cited as a “substantial barrier” to U.S. growth
by 7 of 10 investors.  Tight bank credit was cited by 59 percent, followed by
political gridlock between Democrats and Republicans, cited by
56 percent; the federal  budget deficit , 53 percent; and turmoil
in the eurozone, 52 percent.  New Banking Rules  Stricter regulation of the financial industry as the Obama-
backed overhaul of banking law takes effect was cited by 41
percent; consumers’ efforts to reduce debt loads, 34 percent;
lenders’ unwillingness to write-down mortgages to recognize the
drop in home values, 29 percent; the Obama administration’s
overall regulatory approach, 28 percent; and widening income
inequality, 25 percent.  The impact of the Obama administration’s health overhaul
law, often cited by Republican presidential candidates as a drag
on the economy, didn’t make the top 10 on a list of 13 potential
growth obstacles. Twenty-three percent of investors say it is a
“substantial barrier.”  Eighteen percent cited  China ’s manipulation of its currency
as a major barrier to U.S. growth. Nine percent picked
uncertainty over the outcome of the  U.S. presidential election .  While the threat of a financial crisis still weighs on
investors, it has receded over the past three months. Thirty-
nine percent of poll respondents expect another financial
meltdown in the U.S. within five years, down from 45 percent who
said so in September. Nine percent anticipate a crisis in the
U.S. within the next year, down from 19 percent in September.  ‘Prevent Market Shocks’  Though most poll respondents are in the financial-services
industry, they expressed support for restrictions to contain a
future crisis. Fifty-seven percent back capping the size of U.S.
banks to prevent institutions that are “too big to fail.”  “Management of such institutions will have incentives to
take big risks, knowing that there always will be a safety net
in case their bets would not pay off,” poll respondent
Alexander Fingerman, 39, a vice president of BNP Paribas in New
York, says in an e-mail. A cap on bank size “allows not only to
avoid the guaranteed bailout but also to prevent market shocks
when a bank failure (inevitably) occurs.”  Investors are unenthusiastic about prospects for the U.S.
 housing market . A 45 percent plurality expects housing prices to
be little changed in 2012, with 28 percent expecting a recovery
and 24 percent a drop.  The Bloomberg Global Poll was conducted by Selzer & Co., a
Des Moines, Iowa-based firm. It has a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.0 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 