-- 
Potash, Mosaic End Their Dispute Over Saskatchewan Potash Mine

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-12-08T14:14:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/potash-mosaic-end-dispute-over-esterhazy-potash-mine-in-saskatchewan.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. (POT)  and
 Mosaic Co. (MOS)  settled a legal dispute over a so-called tolling
agreement at Esterhazy, the world’s largest potash mine.  Under the settlement, Mosaic will continue to supply some
of the crop nutrient mined at Esterhazy to Potash Corp. until
the end of next year, the companies said today. A trial
scheduled to start at the Queen’s Bench Judicial Centre of
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, in January will be canceled and a
counterclaim by Mosaic will be dismissed, Plymouth, Minnesota-
based Mosaic said in a statement.  “This settlement provides Potash Corp. and its
stakeholders with certainty through 2012,” Bill Doyle, chief
executive officer of Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Potash Corp.,
said in a separate statement.  The dispute stemmed from a 33-year-old tolling arrangement
under which Mosaic mined Potash Corp.’s potash reserves that
overlap Mosaic’s mine at Esterhazy, Saskatchewan. Mosaic, which
supplies its competitor with about 1.1 million metric tons of
potash a year from Esterhazy at cost, had argued that its
tolling obligation had been fulfilled.  As part of the companies’ settlement, Mosaic will also get
a credit for 1.3 million tons of capacity at Esterhazy to be
used to calculate Mosaic’s share of sales made by Canpotex Ltd.
to international customers. Canpotex is the  marketing company 
jointly owned by Potash Corp., Mosaic and Agrium Inc.,  North
America ’s largest potash producers.  The 1.3 million tons of capacity is currently allocated to
Potash Corp., Mosaic said in its statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  