-- 
Pujols’s Exit May Leave St. Louis Restaurant Goers With Bad Taste in Mouth

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-12-08T19:20:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/pujols-s-exit-may-leave-st-louis-restaurant-goers-with-bad-taste-in-mouth.html
The news that  Albert Pujols  was
joining the Los Angeles Angels as a free agent was felt today
throughout  Major League Baseball  -- and at the three-time Most
Valuable Player’s  St. Louis  restaurant.  Workers at  Pujols 5 , partly owned by the nine-time All-Star
first baseman with the  St. Louis Cardinals , said they were
thinking about how customers will react to his departure.  “Will it affect our business here?” Pat Hanon, the
restaurant’s manager, said in a telephone interview. “I’d be
kidding you if I didn’t think so.”  The restaurant’s name includes the player’s uniform number.
The menu lists several items labeled “Albert’s Favorite,” such
as shrimp tacos and Tahitian vanilla creme brulee.  Pujols is the most popular athlete in St. Louis, home for
his entire 11-year Major League Baseball career. The 31-year-old
agreed this morning to a 10-year contract with the Angels that
will pay him between $250 million and $260 million, Yahoo Sports
reported, citing a person it didn’t identify. It would be the
third largest contract in baseball history, trailing Alex Rodriguez’s agreements in 2007 with the  New York Yankees  and
2000 with the Texas Rangers.  “We’re talking about an iconic offensive player,” Angels
General Manager Jerry Dipoto said during a news conference in
Dallas announcing the deal, declining to disclose financial
terms. “It’s a very exciting day for the Angels community,
Southern California as a whole,”  The Cardinals offered Pujols $220 million over 10 years,
according to the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. The team hasn’t
commented on his departure.  ‘National Figure’  “Albert was a national figure,” said Hanon, 65. “He’s
iconic. Once St. Louis gets through their knee-jerk situation,
things will settle back and they’ll understand there was a big
difference, an iconic difference, between what the Cardinals
offered and what the Angels offered.”  Few players have become as closely identified with their
franchise as Pujols was with the Cardinals, who won the  World
Series  this past season, when he hit .299 with 37 home runs and
99 runs batted in. Pujols was paid about $14.5 million last
season.  Pujols has finished in the top 10 of MVP voting in each of
his 11 seasons. He has hit at least 32 home runs each season in
the major leagues, and 2011 was the first time that he failed to
drive in 100 runs.  Five-Year Partner  Hanon said the restaurant has been in business for more
than 29 years, the past five with Pujols as a partner. The
player would eat a pre-game lunch at the restaurant twice a
month, Hanon said.  “We’re going to miss it -- miss him,” Hanon said.  The manager said the restaurant is on a thoroughfare
frequented by out-of-town visitors, including folks who might
fancy the Angels.  “There’s a very good market of travelers that come in and
out from  Los Angeles ,  New York ,  China  and  Brazil ,” Hanon said.
“We’ve built a real solid business with good food and service.
Let’s hope that’s enough for people.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  