-- 
Quadra Up for Grabs With Escalating Price Driving Deal: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 
2011-12-08T15:02:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/quadra-up-for-grabs-with-escalating-price-driving-deal-real-m-a.html
Quadra FNX Mining Ltd. is poised to
secure the largest takeover price increase in  North America  as
the cheapest copper bid on record leaves room for  Vale SA (VALE3)  or
 Antofagasta (ANTO)  Plc to make a competing offer.  Poland ’s KGHM Polska Miedz SA agreed this week to buy
Quadra for C$2.28 billion ($2.26 billion) including net cash,
valuing the Canadian miner at 5.2 times net income, the lowest
for a copper takeover of similar size, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The price is also a 36 percent discount
to net asset value, based on analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. After closing 5.4 percent above the bid yesterday,
Quadra is more likely to draw a higher offer than any other deal
greater than $500 million in North America, the data show.  While the Vancouver-based company agreed not to solicit
rival proposals to KGHM’s C$15 a share in cash, Quadra may still
lure offers from  Vale (VALE5)  or Antofagasta with its copper deposit in
Chile and mines in the U.S. and  Canada , according to Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. With analysts expecting Quadra to reach C$18.28
in the next 12 months as an independent company, a bidding war
may push the price tag to as much as C$28.25, 88 percent higher
than the current agreement, said Salman Partners Inc.  “The stock is trading at a premium to the C$15 bid not
only because the offer seems to be at a deep discount to
fundamental value and what the consensus target prices were, but
also because it was pretty clear that there had not been an
auction process,” Catharine Sterritt, a Toronto-based risk
arbitrage strategist at Scotia Capital Inc., said in a telephone
interview. “There are other people who will be interested.”  ‘Not Emotions’  Kristina Howe, a spokeswoman for Quadra, didn’t respond to
a phone call or e-mail requesting comment.  “The price we offered for Quadra is a result of
fundamental analysis and not emotions,” said Dariusz Wyborski,
a spokesman for Lubin, Poland-based  KGHM. (KGH)  “It’s a fair price
and we don’t see ourselves getting into a bidding war.”  A representative for Rio de Janeiro-based Vale said the
company doesn’t comment on rumors or speculation.
Representatives for London-based Antofagasta didn’t respond to
e-mails.  KGHM, the copper miner with the largest European output,
announced on Dec. 6 its agreement to purchase Quadra at a 43
percent premium to the stock’s 20-day trading average. The
company, which is 32 percent owned by the Treasury Ministry in
Poland, said the deal will boost annual production by 100,000
tons from 570,000 tons planned this year. The transaction,
expected to close in the first quarter, will be the largest
overseas acquisition by a Polish company, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Cheapest Copper Takeover  At 5.2 times net income, Quadra would be the cheapest
copper takeover greater than $500 million on record, the data
show. Excluding Quadra, deals in the industry have cost a median
of 12.5 times profit.  After declining 32 percent this year, Quadra shares were up
39 percent in the last two days. The stock closed yesterday at
C$15.81, indicating that traders who profit from mergers and
acquisitions expect a richer bid. Quadra is trading the most
above its bid of any pending North American takeover valued at
more than $500 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The trading is telling us, at the very least, KGHM is
going to have to up their offer,”  George Topping , a Toronto-
based analyst at Stifel Nicolaus, said in a phone interview.
“Who would tender at a C$15 bid when you can just sell it in
the marketplace for where it’s trading now?”  Quadra fell 1 cent to C$15.80 at 9:55 a.m. in Toronto.  ‘Too Low’  The deal is “too low” relative to the value of Quadra’s
underlying assets, he said. KGHM’s bid is about 36 percent less
than Quadra’s net asset value of C$23.60 a share, based on the
average of four analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg,
including Topping, who pegs the value at C$20 a share.  “The pricing looks low compared with the net asset value
of the company,”  Raymond Goldie , a Toronto-based analyst at
Salman Partners, said in a phone interview. “The market is
thinking there will be another bid.”  Quadra, which was created last year when Quadra Mining Ltd.
acquired FNX Mining Co. for about C$1 billion, produced 224
million pounds of copper and 7 million pounds of nickel in 2010.  The company, with  operations  including the Morrison mine in
Canada’s Sudbury basin and the Robinson mine in  Nevada , plans to
start production in 2014 at the $3 billion Sierra Gorda copper
and molybdenum mine in  Chile .  ‘Sweet Spot’  “The sweet spot of the Quadra asset base is the
development projects,” Alec Kodatsky, an analyst at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce, said in a phone interview from
Toronto. “There is not an infinite number of copper deposits
that are available out there, and certainly Quadra has some of
the better ones.”  Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, may enter the
bidding because it already has nickel and copper operations in
Sudbury and would gain control of Quadra’s “most attractive”
asset, the Sierra Gorda project, Stifel’s Topping said.  “Sierra Gorda is a low-cost, undeveloped copper asset,”
Scotia Capital’s Sterritt said. “For someone like Vale that has
been actively looking at copper acquisitions and has the Sudbury
connection, it would particularly make sense.”  Vale, with a market value of $120 billion as of yesterday,
said Nov. 28 that it plans to invest $21.4 billion in mining
projects in 2012 to boost the output of commodities including
copper. In July Vale abandoned a bid for Metorex Ltd., the owner
of copper and cobalt mines in  Zambia , after  China ’s Jinchuan
Group offered a higher price.  No Auction  Antofagasta, a $19 billion producer of copper in Chile,
also has a project in  Sierra Gorda  and may be interested in
acquiring Quadra, according to Stifel’s Topping.  Paul Blythe, chief executive officer of Quadra, said on a
conference call Dec. 6 that the board had to choose between “a
substantial premium on the table that may go away” and
proceeding with an auction process. Quadra has agreed not to
solicit rival offers and has given KGHM a five-day right to
match superior bids.  “We’ve got the deal that we’ve got,” Blythe said in a
phone interview this week. “It is a significant premium. We’re
comfortable as a board recommending the deal. If anybody sees it
differently then they are going to step up and say so.”  John Tumazos, founder of Very Independent Research LLC in
Holmdel,  New Jersey , said he doesn’t expect any other proposals.  Xstrata, Minmetals  “What I read into the agreed-upon price was that the
Quadra management didn’t have 100 percent confidence in the
copper price or the moly price, and they didn’t have 100 percent
confidence in their operations,” he said in a phone interview.
“If someone wants to bid higher, they have to think they can
run the mines better.”  Still, other potential bidders for Quadra include  Xstrata
Plc (XTA)  of Zug,  Switzerland , and China’s  Minmetals Resources Ltd. (1208) ,
 Greg Barnes , a Toronto-based analyst at TD Securities Inc.,
wrote in a Dec. 7 note to clients.  Xstrata has neighboring operations in Sudbury and may also
be interested in the Sierra Gorda project, Barnes said. Emily Russell, a spokeswoman for Xstrata, said the company doesn’t
comment on market speculation.  Minmetals, a unit of state-owned China Minmetals Corp.,
“has been actively bidding for intermediate copper producers”,
Barnes said. The company’s attempt to acquire Equinox Minerals
Ltd. earlier this year was trumped by Barrick Gold Corp.
Kathleen Kawecki, a spokeswoman for Minmetals, said the company
doesn’t comment on market speculation.  ‘Opportunistic Bid’  Quadra should command C$28.25 a share in a takeover,
comparable to its net asset value, estimates Salman Partners’
Goldie. That would be 7.4 percent higher than Quadra’s record
high of C$26.31 in 2008, the data show. TD Securities’ Barnes
said a buyer needs to offer at least C$17 a share to get support
from investors.  Even before the KGHM acquisition was announced, analysts on
average were projecting that Quadra’s stock would climb to
 C$18.28 (QUX)  on its own within a year, according to estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s an opportunistic bid,” said Stifel’s Topping. “As
long as the world doesn’t fall apart, then there ought to be a
higher offer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 