-- 
Garrett Bauer Pleads Guilty to Trading on Stolen Merger Tips

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-12-08T23:03:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/trader-bauer-pleads-guilty-in-insider-case-that-u-s-says-made-37-million.html
Garrett Bauer, a  New York  stock
trader, pleaded guilty to his role in an  insider-trading  scheme
that the U.S. says generated $37 million in illegal profits by
relying on corporate merger tips stolen from four law firms.  Bauer, 44, joined middleman Kenneth T. Robinson and
attorney Matthew H. Kluger in using nonpublic data to trade
ahead of more than 30 corporate transactions over 17 years, he
admitted in federal court in  Newark , New Jersey. Robinson, who
cooperated with prosecutors, pleaded guilty in April.  In charging the men in April, prosecutors said the scheme
involved companies such as Sun Microsystems Inc., 3Com Corp. and
Acxiom Corp. They said Bauer made more than $30 million on the
scheme, while Robinson earned more than $875,000 and Kluger more
than $500,000.  “After taking the lion’s share of the $37 million in
profits, Bauer now faces punishment for conduct that undermines
the fairness of our financial markets and the public’s trust in
the safety of its investments,” U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said
in a statement.  Bauer admitted  securities fraud , conspiracy to commit
securities fraud, conspiracy to commit  money laundering , and
obstruction of justice. He faces as many as 20 years in prison
on the fraud and obstruction counts when he is sentenced March
13. He forfeited cash and property worth more than $23 million.  ‘Can’t Be Tolerated’  Bauer, who is free on $4 million bail, regrets his actions
and has been giving lectures to students and traders about
insider trading, said his attorney  Michael Bachner . He has
spoken at business schools, law schools, churches and synagogues
to audiences ranging from 20 to 200 people, Bachner said.  “What he has conveyed in the lectures is that the conduct
can’t be tolerated and isn’t tolerated,” Bachner said in an
interview after the hearing. “The consequences of this type of
behavior can be enormous, both emotionally and in the criminal
justice system.”  Bachner said that while prosecutors put the illicit profits
at $37 million, he estimates the gains at $23 million. U.S.
District Judge Katharine Hayden will ultimately make a judgment
on the amount of gain before sentencing Bauer.  Like Robinson before him, Bauer admitted the scheme started
in 1994, when Kluger first worked as an associate for  New York- 
based firm  Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP . Kluger began passing
tips about anticipated corporate mergers and acquisitions to
Robinson, who funneled them to Bauer to buy shares for the three
men.  Sold Shares  Bauer then sold shares after the corporate announcement and
passed cash to Robinson to share with Kluger, he said. Kluger at
first passed tips only on those deals on which he worked. As the
scheme developed, Kluger stole information about deals on which
he didn’t work, which he gleaned from the firm’s computers.  The scheme continued when Kluger worked from 1998 to 2001
at  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP , another New York-
based firm, and when he worked from 2001 to 2002 at  Fried Frank
Harris Shriver & Jacobson LLP , Bauer admitted. The scheme
resumed in December 2005 and ran until March 2011, when Kluger
worked in the Washington office of  Wilson, Sonsini, Goodrich &
Rosati PC .  In the later years, the men used pay phones and prepaid
cellular phones to discuss their illicit scheme, Bauer said.
After learning in March 2011 of the criminal investigation,
Bauer admitted, he destroyed a cellular phone he used to talk to
Robinson, and he told Robinson to burn $175,000 in illicit cash.  Secret Recordings  Robinson, 45, of  Long Beach , New York, a mortgage broker
who secretly recorded Bauer and Kluger for the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation , is cooperating with federal investigators,
Fishman said after his plea hearing.  Bauer forfeited about $20 million in bank accounts and
trading accounts, as well as a $6.65 million condominium on the
Upper East Side of Manhattan and an $875,000 home in  Boca Raton ,
 Florida . Assistant U.S. Attorney Matthew Beck said that the
properties had liens on them.  Kluger, 50, of Oakton,  Virginia , is in plea negotiations
with the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Newark, according to a Sept.
30 court filing. His attorney, Alan Zegas, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment today.  Kluger and Bauer also were sued by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Kluger, who is representing himself, filed
a response Sept. 19 to the SEC complaint in which he repeatedly
invoked his constitutional right against self-incrimination.  The cases are U.S. v. Bauer, 11-mj-03536, and U.S. v.
Robinson, 11-cr-00223, U.S. District Court, District of  New
Jersey  (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  