-- 
Rail Freight Gains as Record Retail Sales Buoy December Rush

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-12-08T19:04:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/rail-freight-gains-as-record-retail-sales-buoy-december-rush.html
North American railroads’ seasonal
peak in shipments may be extending into December as an increase
in online Christmas shopping boosts demand for moving packages.  Christmas shipping is shifting closer to the holiday after
retailers delayed building inventory because of concern the
economy would enter a recession, said Tony Hatch, an independent
rail analyst in New York. Late restocking and railroads’ gains
in reliability mean shippers may send more cargo by train this
month, when volumes typically slow, he said.  “The general economic uncertainty has created a new kind
of Christmas rush,” Hatch said. The delayed peak for carriers
has “also been helped by the fact that the railroads are
themselves getting better.”  Railroad intermodal units, the containers and trailers
often used for retail goods that can move by rail, road and sea,
rose 4.7 percent in the week ended Dec. 3, the  Association of
American Railroads  said today. That growth rate may increase in
coming weeks as shippers such as  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS)  use railroads for delivery of online purchases.  FedEx, the operator of the world’s biggest cargo airline,
announced this year that it would move some intermodal goods by
rail for the first time. While the Memphis, Tennessee-based
company moves less by railroad than UPS, the added business
indicates that railroads are more capable of handling consumer
deliveries.  FedEx, UPS  Carriers including  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  and  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. ’s Burlington Northern Santa Fe LLC are benefiting
as delivery companies such as FedEx and Atlanta-based UPS use
railroads for long-distance transportation before putting their
packages on trucks for final delivery directly to customers.  “The railroads move a lot of the deferred parcel
business,” said  Jason Seidl , a New York-based analyst with
Dahlman Rose & Co. “With online sales up nearly 30 percent on
the Black Friday weekend, you could see some additional rail
traffic.” Seidl has “buy” ratings on Omaha, Nebraska-based
Union Pacific,  CSX Corp. (CSX)  and  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC) , the biggest
publicly traded U.S. railroads.  Thanksgiving weekend retail sales climbed 16 percent to a
record $52.4 billion as U.S. consumers poured into the malls and
took to the Web. Online sales on Black Friday surged 26 percent
to $816 million and 18 percent to $479 million on Thanksgiving
Day, according to ComScore, a Reston, Virginia-based research
firm.  December Peak  Since reaching a 2011 high in the week ended Oct. 1,
intermodal carloads continued year-over-year gains. Those gains
may increase in the first few weeks of December as peak’s end
for the railroads extends for part of UPS’s and FedEx’s busiest
seasons.  Delivery companies like UPS use railroads in part because
“it’s just cheaper,” said Lee Klaskow, a Bloomberg Industries
analyst in Skillman,  New Jersey . “That being said, they’re not
like a typical shipper looking at intermodal just because it’s
cheap. If the service levels aren’t there, they’re not going to
use it.”  A jump in carloads this December may not indicate increased
business from holiday shoppers since the railroads don’t break
out volumes by shipper, according to Paul Bingham, economics
practice leader at consultant Wilbur Smith Associates in
Arlington, Virginia.  Air, Road  “I wouldn’t be 100 percent confident that if I saw, let’s
say the volume declines being less than you would expect
seasonally typically, that was coming solely from UPS and
FedEx,” he said in a telephone interview.  Though railroads could see some additional December volume,
airfreight and truckers are likely to be the biggest
beneficiaries of a delayed peak season, according to Justin Yagerman, a New York-based analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities
Inc. He expects intermodal shipments to moderate through the end
of the year and has a “buy” rating on FedEx, UPS, Union
Pacific and Jacksonville, Florida-based CSX, and a “hold” on
Norfolk Southern.  Railroad shares are outperforming the broader market as
investors see a benefit from an increase in intermodal
shipments. Before today, the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  was
little changed since the beginning of the year, while the S&P
500  gauge (S5RAIL)  consisting of Union Pacific, CSX and Norfolk Southern
rose about 10 percent.  Carriers in recent years have become more closely tied to
cyclical consumer demand, according to Hatch. While that will
benefit them if buying power is strong this holiday season, the
extended shipping peak may not extend longer than usual if it
fades.  “They’re much better companies but as they’re getting
better they’re getting a lot more cyclical,” Hatch said. Rather
than just moving grain and coal, for which demand is typically
stable, “now they are going to move Christmas goods, or not,
depending on the consumer.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Natalie Doss in  New York 
at   ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  