-- 
South African Rand Declines as Third-Quarter Current Account Gap Widens

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-12-08T14:12:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/rand-declines-as-european-leaders-struggle-to-avert-recession.html
The rand fell against the dollar and
euro after manufacturing growth in  South Africa  slumped and the
current account gap widened, reducing the appeal of assets in
Africa’s biggest  economy .  The currency retreated as much as 1.1 percent to 8.1105 per
dollar. The rand pared its decline after jobless claims in the
U.S. fell to the lowest level in nine months, trading 0.2
percent weaker at 8.0412 as of 3:40 p.m. in Johannesburg.
Against the euro, it declined 0.3 percent to 10.8031.  Factory output growth in October eased to 1 percent from
8.1 percent in September, Pretoria-based Statistics South Africa
said, missing the 5.7 percent  median estimate  in a Bloomberg
survey of 12 economists. The current account shortfall swelled
to 3.8 percent of gross domestic product in the third quarter,
the most in 18 months, the central bank reported earlier.
Economists had estimated a deficit of 3.7 percent.  “It’s all rather dismal,” said Ian Cruickshanks, head of
treasury strategic research at Johannesburg-based Nedbank
Capital, in a phone interview. “The outlook for our trade
account is not very bright. Be prepared for tough times.”  The worsening debt crisis in  Europe , which buys about a
third of South Africa’s manufactured goods, has sapped demand
for exports. That may persuade the  Reserve Bank , led by Governor
 Gill Marcus , to keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at a
30-year low of 5.5 percent even as price pressures increase.  The current account gap, which the government has referred
to as the economy’s “Achilles’ heel,” has narrowed from 8.5
percent in 2008 as growth in Africa’s biggest economy stalled.
The deficit widened this year as a recovery in  consumer spending 
added to imports and manufacturing and mining exports slumped.  ‘Rand’s Weakness’  “The slump in manufacturing production growth is negative
for the growth outlook and, hence, the rand’s fundamentals,”
Nomvuyo Guma, a Johannesburg-based currency strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd., wrote in e-mailed comments. “With the
rand already weakening on the back of earlier data showing a
wider-than-expected current account, this data could aggravate
the rand’s weakness.”  The  European Central Bank  cut its benchmark interest rate
by 25 basis points to 1 percent today before Europe’s leaders
convene in Brussels for talks to frame the fifth
“comprehensive” solution in 19 months to a debt crisis that’s
left Germany and  France  facing the threat of losing their AAA
rating from  Standard & Poor’s .  “Bitter experience suggests we shouldn’t hope for too much
from Europe,” John Cairns, a currency strategist at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. The
rand “could easily end the day at 7.90 or 8.20” per dollar as
volatility rises, he said.  The rand pared its decline after fewer Americans than
forecast filed applications for unemployment benefits last week,
a signal the U.S. labor market may be on the mend.  “There are still some growth prospects in the U.S., but
they are very limited,” Cruickshanks said. “The markets are
very tentative.”  South  Africa ’s 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 gained for the
first day in three, driving the yield down one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 6.69 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  