-- 
Treasuries Rise as Draghi Saps Demand for Risk, European Leaders Convene

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-12-08T22:13:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/treasuries-snap-gain-before-auction-announcement-european-debt-summit.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year note
yields to the lowest level this month, after European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  damped speculation more bond
purchases are imminent as leaders gathered for a summit.  Thirty-year bond yields dropped for a second day after a
report that  Europe ’s banks will need to raise $153 billion in
fresh capital. U.S. debt  yields  increased earlier today on
reduced demand for a refuge as the ECB announced steps to make
it easier for financial institutions to borrow and cut its
target lending rate by a quarter-percentage point.  “Yields are lower because people don’t believe there’s a
magic pill for Europe and there are doubts as to whether we’re
closer to having this problem solved,” said Dan Mulholland, a
trader in New York at RBC Capital Markets LLC. The Royal Bank of
Canada unit is one of the 21 primary dealers that trade directly
with the  Federal Reserve .  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note fell six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 1.97 percent at 4:59 p.m.
New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2
percent security due in November 2021 rose 17/32, or $5.31 per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 8/32. The yield touched 1.96 percent,
the lowest level since Nov. 28.  A one-point gain in 30-year bonds pushed yields down six
basis points to 3 percent. Two-year note yields fell two basis
point to 0.22 percent.  Roiling Markets  Draghi roiled the markets, with Treasuries falling on bank-
lending measures he described at a press conference after a
policy meeting.  The central bank pledged for the first time to offer banks
unlimited cash for three years and loosened the collateral rules
it imposes when lending to financial institutions. The  benchmark
rate  was lowered by a quarter-percentage point to 1 percent,
matching a record low.  U.S. debt  securities then rallied as Draghi, who said Dec.
1 that “other elements” may follow a push toward a fiscal
union, said he was “kind of surprised” that the remark was
viewed as a suggestion that bond purchases would intensify.  “The markets got really disappointed when Draghi, the
president of the ECB, said, ‘Hey, wait a minute, I was
misinterpreted,’” said Mohamed A. El-Erian, chief executive
officer at Pacific Investment Management Co., in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “In The Loop” with Betty Liu. Pimco,
based in  Newport Beach ,  California , operates the world’s biggest
bond fund.  Europe’s Banks  Treasuries extended their increase after the European
Banking Authority said Europe’s banks will need to raise fresh
capital as part of measures introduced in response to the euro
area’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The European Union’s AAA long-term rating and the rankings
of some of the region’s largest banks including BNP Paribas SA,
Commerzbank AG and Deutsche Bank AG may be cut by  Standard &
Poor’s , the company said yesterday, following a similar
statement this week regarding 15 of the 17 euro members
including  Germany .  “There’s a chorus of negative headlines coming out about
European financials and sovereigns,” said  Scott Sherman , an
interest-rate strategist in New York at Credit Suisse Group AG,
a primary dealer.  Demand for U.S. debt as a result of Europe’s crisis pushed
Treasuries due in 10 years or longer up 21 percent in the past
six months, the best performance among 144 bond indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies, after accounting for currency changes.  Brussels Summit  European leaders began a two-day summit in Brussels today
after the region’s debt crisis spread to  Italy  last month,
pushing yields on the nation’s debt to a euro-era record.  In the U.S., the Fed is replacing $400 billion of shorter
maturities in its holdings with longer-term debt to keep rates
down and foster growth, in a plan announced in September.  The central bank bought $4.617 billion in Treasuries
maturing from February 2020 to November 2021 under the program
and sold $8.630 billion of notes maturing in 2012.  The U.S. will auction $32 billion in three-year notes on
Dec. 12, $21 billion in 10-year debt the next day and $13
billion in 30-year bonds on Dec. 14, the same as in the previous
auctions of similar securities in October, the Treasury said
today. The government will also sell $12 billion in five-year
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities on Dec. 15, the same
amount sold in August.  About $238 billion of Treasuries changed hands yesterday
through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest interdealer broker. The
amount is below the average of $294 billion for 2011.  “The reality is people don’t want to put on any big
bets,” said  David Ader , head of government bond strategy at CRT
Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “There’s too much
uncertainty.”  The 10-year yield will rise to 2.73 percent by the end of
2012, according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of banks and securities companies, with the most recent
forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  