-- 
Refiners Say EU Sugar Tender Plan Threatens Their Future

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-12-08T17:44:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/refiners-say-eu-sugar-tender-plan-threatens-their-future-1-.html
European Union plans to import sugar
at a reduced duty still forces refiners to pay almost three
times as much as the rest of the bloc’s sweetener industry,
threatening their viability, according to a refiners’ group.  The EU awarded licenses today to import 100,000 metric tons
of raw sugar for refining at a duty of 252.50 euros ($336.36) to
255 euros a ton, the European Commission, the bloc’s regulatory
arm, said in a statement. That compares to the usual duty of 339
euros a ton, it said. The levy paid on an additional 400,000
tons of sugar that the EU allowed local producers to sell within
the bloc this season is 85 euros a ton, the commission has said.  “It is difficult to understand the logic behind forcing
the refiners into a desperate auction against each other,
particularly when their plants are operating at around 60
percent of capacity,” Joao Pereira, president of the European
Sugar Refiners’ Association, said in an e-mailed statement.  Today’s tender to import sugar was part of a series of
measures approved on Nov. 24 to boost supplies in the EU. The
bloc is facing a second year of shortages after imports from a
group of least-developed nations that have preferential access
to the market fell short of the commission’s expectations.  “The duty free imports forecast by the European Commission
have not materialized,” Pereira said. “The consequence of the
commission tender is to force refiners’ costs up even further.”  The additional costs paid by the region’s refiners will be
added to the final price of white sugar paid by consumers in
supermarkets, the refiners association said.  “The cane refining industry simply cannot continue to bear
these costs without an impact on our viability and jobs in the
long term,” Pereira said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  