-- 
Rupiah Advances as Central Bank Leaves Benchmark Rate Unchanged

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-12-08T08:40:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/rupiah-advances-as-central-bank-leaves-benchmark-rate-unchanged.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah advanced after the
central bank refrained from its cutting benchmark interest rate
in a meeting today. Bonds declined for a second day.  Bank Indonesia  left its reference rate unchanged at 6
percent, according to the central bank in Jakarta. The decision
was predicted by 17 of 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Five
had forecast a quarter-percentage-point cut. The central bank
unexpectedly slashed the reference rate by 50 basis points last
month. Overseas investors bought $239 million more Indonesian
shares than they sold in the first three days of this week,
according to exchange data.  “There was somewhat consensus that the central bank will
keep the rate unchanged,” said Saktiandi Supaat, head of
foreign-exchange research at Malayan Banking Bhd. in  Singapore .
“One of the reasons for Bank Indonesia decision could be that
it doesn’t want the rupiah to weaken.”  The rupiah appreciated 0.2 percent to 9,060 per dollar as
of 3:20 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg.  The currency has reduced or erased losses in the last three
trading days on speculation the central bank intervened. Bank
Indonesia plans to boost “intervention” in the market to
support the rupiah, Governor Darmin Nasution said Nov. 30, a day
after it reached a 17-month low of 9,240 per dollar.  “With higher inflation expectations next year and to guard
the rupiah, I think it’s fair to hold the  interest rate ,”
Juniman, chief economist at PT Bank Internasional Indonesia in
Jakarta, said before the decision. “It’s not easy for BI to
save the rupiah after they cut rates in the past two months amid
turmoil in  Europe .”  The government’s bonds fell for a second day. The yield on
the 8.25 percent notes due July 2021 rose four basis points to
6.14 percent, according to the midday prices from Inter-Dealer
Market Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  