-- 
South Korea Holds Key Rate as EU Leaders Gather

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-12-08T07:54:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/s-korea-holds-key-rate-as-eu-leaders-gather.html
South Korea  and  New Zealand  left
 interest rates  unchanged to shield growth as Japanese machinery
orders and Australian employment unexpectedly fell, underscoring
the threat to global expansion from Europe’s fiscal crisis.  The Bank of  Korea  kept its  benchmark rate  at 3.25 percent
for a sixth month, it said in Seoul today, while New Zealand’s
central bank held the official  cash rate  at a record-low 2.5
percent. Bank Indonesia maintained borrowing costs at 6 percent.
In Australia, the number of people employed fell by 6,300 in
November.  Japan ’s machinery orders slid 6.9 percent in October
from the previous month.  Today’s decisions contrast with rate cuts in nations from
Australia to  Thailand , underlining divergence in responses to
 Europe ’s deterioration as elevated inflation and the risk of
capital flight in some Asia-Pacific countries argue for
restraint on stimulus. Australia reported a jump in unemployment
to 5.3 percent, validating its decision to lower borrowing costs
this week, while the Japanese data added to the case for the
 Bank of Japan  to boost asset purchases.  “The overarching theme is for the region’s central banks
to consider easing domestic policies,” said Radhika Rao, an
economist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “South Korea could wait
it out before inflation comes down decisively. Countries where
growth has deteriorated faster, such as Thailand, are being
forced to bring out the easing cycle ahead of others.”  Asia’s stocks slid and many of its currencies weakened
against the dollar, as investors await a European leaders’
summit that aims to curb the region’s debt turmoil. The meeting
follows the  European Central Bank ’s rate decision today, with 53
of 58 economists in a Bloomberg News survey expecting a cut to 1
percent from 1.25 percent.  ‘Downside Risks’  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 0.6 percent as of 4:49
p.m. in  Tokyo . The South Korean won fell 0.5 percent, leading
declines in a basket of 10 Asian currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  “Downside risks to growth are high” because of Europe’s
woes, the possibility of slumps in major economies and swings in
international financial markets, the Bank of Korea said in a
statement today. At the same time, the nation’s jobless rate is
at a three-year low of 3.1 percent, and inflation of 4.2 percent
in November exceeded the central bank’s 4 percent ceiling.  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand cited “an unusual degree
of uncertainty” in global conditions and the moderate pace of
domestic demand.  Bank Indonesia  said its decision reflected
risks to growth.  Fewer Jobs  In Australia, the  drop  in full-time jobs was the biggest
since April as heightened risks to the global economy and a
strong currency prompted employers to shed workers. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 22 economists was for a
10,000 advance in payrolls. The jobless rate rose from 5.2
percent.  The  tumble  in Japanese machinery orders exceeded the
prediction of all 27 economists in another Bloomberg survey. The
nation’s government also said today that exports in the first 20
days of November fell at the fastest pace since May, adding to
signs Europe’s fiscal crisis and a yen that rose to a postwar
record on Oct. 31 are weighing on demand.  Taiwan will report 8.6 percent export growth in November
from a year earlier, according to the median estimate in another
Bloomberg survey. Malaysia said its  industrial production  growth
slowed in October, gaining 2.8 percent from a year earlier
compared with a revised 3 percent in September.  In the U.S., the Labor Department is scheduled to release
initial jobless claims, which declined to 395,000 in the week
ended Dec. 3 from 402,000, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg  survey .  Europe Bank Lending  In Europe, the euro-area’s central bank may delve deeper
into its toolbox today to stimulate bank lending and fight off a
recession as the region’s leaders gather to lay the foundations
for a fiscal union.  ECB policy makers may also loosen collateral criteria to
give banks greater access to cheap cash and offer longer-term
loans, said three euro-area officials with knowledge of the
deliberations.  Europe’s leaders will later convene in Brussels for talks
to frame the fifth “comprehensive” solution in 19 months to a
debt turmoil that’s left Germany and  France  facing the threat of
losing their AAA rating from  Standard & Poor’s .  Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty said there hasn’t
been discussion among Group of 20 nations on a specific plan to
boost International Monetary Fund lending and ease Europe’s debt
crisis. IMF spokesman William Murray denied a Nikkei report that
the G-20 is considering a $600 billion lending program by the
Washington-based fund.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said last week the global economy has stalled because of
mounting concern about the survival of Europe’s monetary union.  The 34 OECD economies will expand 1.9 percent this year and
1.6 percent in 2012, down from 2.3 percent and 2.8 percent
predicted in May, the Paris-based organization said in its
twice-annual global outlook released Nov. 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap  in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  