-- 
S&P’s Adelson Steps Down as Jacob Leaves Amid Government Ratings Scrutiny

-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-12-09T01:20:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/s-p-s-jacob-to-leave-as-adelson-steps-down-as-chief-of-credit.html
Standard & Poor’s  is replacing its
chief credit officer, Mark Adelson, as the world’s largest
ratings company winds down a year in which its grades of
governments have faced growing scrutiny.  Adelson, 51, who oversaw an overhaul of S&P’s methodologies
that was designed to address their failures during the collapse
of the mortgage-bond market, will become a “senior research
fellow,” the New York-based unit of McGraw-Hill Cos. said
yesterday in a statement. Also, David Jacob, global head of
structured finance, will depart at the end of the month.  The changes come three months after Douglas Peterson left
Citigroup Inc. to become S&P’s president, following its decision
to strip the U.S. of its top AAA ranking. This week, the firm
warned it may downgrade  Germany ,  France  and 13 other European
countries. Even as S&P’s moves roil credit markets, McGraw-Hill
is planning to separate its financial businesses from its
textbook publishing unit under pressure from hedge fund Jana
Partners LLC.  “There are a lot of changes going on at McGraw-Hill
broadly,”  Peter Appert , an analyst who follows the company at
Piper Jaffray & Co. in  San Francisco , said in a telephone
interview. Peterson has been discussing removing layers of
management, he said.  Ian Thompson, who was previously responsible for the Asia-
Pacific region, will replace Adelson, S&P said in the statement.
Peterson, the former chief operating officer of  Citibank NA ,
replaced Deven Sharma, who had led the unit since 2007.  Worked Together  Jacob and Adelson joined S&P in 2008 from Adelson & Jacob
Consulting, where they worked together. Jacob took over a
structured-finance business that was blamed by congressional
investigators for contributing to the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression by assigning top grades to risky
real-estate bonds.  Under Adelson, S&P revised the way it graded governments,
banks and bonds backed by assets such as mortgages. The new
criteria for structured finance were designed to be “tougher,”
Adelson said in an undated video on S&P’s  website . Any bonds
carrying AAA ratings should be able to withstand stress similar
to the Great Depression, Adelson wrote in a paper in 2009.  S&P downgraded the U.S. one step to AA+ on Aug. 5, saying
that gridlock in  Washington  and the rising national debt were
making it riskier to invest in  government bonds . The cut was
questioned by President  Barack Obama , who said in a  speech  on
Aug. 8 that the ratings company was basing its judgment on
politics, not on the government’s ability to pay its debts.  Europe Warning  On Dec. 5, S&P warned that it may cut 15 euro nations as
policy makers prepared to meet in Brussels to end a crisis that
led to bailouts of  Greece , Ireland and Portugal, and now
threatens to engulf  Italy .  European Central Bank  governing council member  Christian Noyer  lambasted S&P.  “They changed their methodology and it’s now more linked
to political factors and less to fundamentals,” Noyer said on
Dec. 5 at a conference in Paris. “The rating agencies fueled
the crisis in 2008 and we can question whether they’re not doing
the same thing in the current crisis.”  Moritz Kraemer, S&P’s head of European sovereign ratings,
denied that the company was trying to influence politics.  Deal Scuttled  In July, S&P withdrew grades it had assigned to a $1.5
billion offering of bonds backed by commercial mortgages from
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc., forcing the banks
to scuttle the deal after it was placed with investors.  “The manner in which S&P took its action has severely
eroded investor and issuer confidence in its ratings,” Morgan
Stanley analysts led by Richard Parkus in  New York  wrote in a
note on July 28.  Last month, after revising its bank criteria, S&P lowered
its ratings of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Bank of America Corp.
and UBS AG.  Prior to consulting, Adelson was head of structured finance
research at Nomura Securities International, according to a
statement announcing his hiring.  S&P also said that it was looking to hire a new chief
economist and chief risk officer. McGraw-Hill said on Dec. 7 it
would eliminate 550 jobs at its education unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  