-- 
Same-Sex Marriage Foes Seek Reversal of Ruling by Gay Judge

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-12-09T02:27:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/same-sex-marriage-foes-in-california-argue-gay-judge-had-conflict-in-case.html
Same-sex marriage foes in  California 
asked a federal appeals court today to throw out a judge’s
ruling that struck down the state’s gay marriage ban because he
didn’t disclose that he was gay and in a long-term relationship.  Former U.S. District Judge Vaughn Walker, now retired from
the bench, should have disqualified himself from a San Francisco
trial over whether the voter-approved measure outlawing same-sex
weddings is discriminatory because he had an interest in its
outcome, lawyers for the measure’s supporters said in court
filings. A different federal judge in June refused to toss
Walker’s ruling. Today, a three-judge panel heard an appeal in
San Francisco.  The attempt to set aside Walker’s ruling is the latest
twist in a seven-year battle between advocates and opponents of
gay marriage over legalizing same-sex weddings in the U.S. state
with the largest number of gay couples.  San Francisco  allowed
gay weddings in 2004; the practice was halted by the California
Supreme Court, which later legalized the nuptials. Opponents put
Proposition 8 on the 2008 ballot to enact a ban; the measure was
passed by 52 percent of voters, and was struck down last year by
Walker.  A ruling for Proposition 8 proponents could lead to a new
trial over whether it discriminates against gays and lesbians. A
ruling in favor of gay couples and the city of San Francisco,
who are defending Walker’s participation in the case, could
trigger another appeal.  ‘Not Free’  “The judge is not free to both sit on the case and keep
silent,” said  Charles Cooper , an attorney for Proposition 8
proponents, in a court filing. “Judge Walker, we respectfully
submit, was not faithful to his obligation” to disclose any
fact that could raise questions about his impartiality.|  “There is no case that says a judge who is a minority,
because he is in a minority, can sit on his own case,” Cooper
told the three-judge panel today. Were the appeals court to
agree with the lower court, “this will be a singular and dark
day in American jurisprudence,” Cooper said.  Walker presided over the nation’s first federal trial over
whether it is legal to ban marriage by people of the same sex.
In August 2010, the judge ruled without a jury that gay couples
demonstrated by “overwhelming evidence” that Proposition 8
violates constitutional equal protection rights.  Walker’s ruling has been on hold pending the outcome of a
separate appeal by Proposition 8 supporters challenging his
findings on constitutional issues.  Walker wasn’t obligated to disqualify himself from the case
because he didn’t have a personal connection to the plaintiffs
or a financial interest in the lawsuit’s outcome, said  Theodore Olson , an attorney for gay couples suing to overturn Proposition
8.  Gay Couples  David Boies , another attorney for gay couples, told the
appeals panel today Proposition 8 proponents claim that non-gay
judges wouldn’t be required to disclose whether they have an
interest in maintaining marriage as an institution for
heterosexuals. Yet gay or lesbian judges would have to disclose
whether they might have a future interest in taking advantage of
the legalization of same-sex nuptials, a right that would be
available to all members of the gay community, he said.  “Consider what the implications of that rule are,” Boies
said. “Consider how disruptive it might be and how corrosive it
might be.”  The lawyer said this is why courts have determined that
judges who have the same potential interest in the outcome of a
trial that many other people do aren’t obligated to to disclose
their intentions or face disqualification.  Former Chief Judge  Walker, the former chief judge of the district court in San
Francisco, retired in February and disclosed in April to
reporters that he had been in a 10-year relationship with a man.
He said he never considered removing himself from the case.  “I didn’t think it was relevant and no party asked me
to,” Walker told reporters. “It would not be a positive
development if a judge’s sexuality, national origin or gender
was pertinent to handling a case. That would be a slippery
slope.”  In June, U.S. District Judge James Ware in San Francisco
refused to throw out Walker’s ruling, saying that presuming
Walker couldn’t make an impartial decision “is as warrantless
as the presumption that a female judge is incapable of being
impartial in a case in which women seek legal relief.”  Videotape of Trial  Proposition 8 proponents will also ask the appeals court to
overturn Ware’s ruling that a videotape of the trial can be made
public, saying it violates local court rules prohibiting
broadcasts of public trials, disobeys a  U.S. Supreme Court 
decision that public broadcasting of the trial was inappropriate
and puts witnesses at risk of being harassed.  Ware ruled after Walker used parts of the trial recording
in connection with his teaching and public speaking.  Circuit Judge Michael Hawkins said during today’s hearing
that just two witnesses testified for Proposition 8 proponents,
one of whom went on TV to express his views and the other of
whom testified only about the political power of gays.  “It’s not like he is going to be harassed or strung up,”
Hawkins said.  Hawkins said Walker told the parties that the taping of the
trial was to help him decide the case. Walker said the recording
would be placed in the court record under seal and never said
that after the trial ended it could be made public, according to
Hawkins.  “Can promises of the court just be disregarded?” Hawkins
said. “The word of the court is supposed to mean something.”  The appeals court is expected to rule on both matters at a
later date.  As of 2006, there were an estimated 109,000 gay couples in
California, more than any other state, according to U.S. Census
data compiled by the  University of California ,  Los Angeles .  The cases are Perry v. Brown, 11-17255 and 11-16577,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit, San Francisco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  