-- 
Samsung Loses Bid to Block Apple IPhone 4S Sales in France

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-12-08T14:45:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/samsung-loses-bid-to-block-apple-iphone-4s-sales-in-france.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  failed to win
a court order blocking  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  from selling its newest
smartphone, the iPhone 4S, in France.  The Paris court rejected Samsung’s request for an emergency
order against Apple while it considers the South Korean
company’s patent-infringement claims.  Samsung, the biggest maker of smartphones, sought to block
sales of the new handset in France,  Italy  and the U.K. days
after it was unveiled in October, arguing Apple violated its
wireless-communications patents. Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung sued in Paris in July over earlier versions of the
iPhone and Apple’s iPad tablet.  “The disproportionate character of the ban sought by
Samsung against Apple is clear,” Judge Marie-Christine
Courboulay said in the decision today.  The Paris court ruled Samsung must pay Apple 100,000 euros
($134,100) for legal fees while denying Apple’s request for
damages. Samsung’s claim wasn’t “abusive” and the company’s
infringement claims can move forward as a regular lawsuit,
Courboulay said.  Florence Catel, a Samsung spokeswoman in Paris, declined to
comment on the decision. Calls to Apple’s office in  London  for
comment weren’t immediately returned.  Samsung has been locked in a global legal battle with Apple
since the Cupertino, California-based company claimed in an
April suit that  Samsung’s Galaxy devices  copied the iPad and
iPhone. Samsung was the world’s biggest maker of smartphones in
the last quarter, while Apple dominates the tablet market.  30 Lawsuits  The companies have filed at least 30 lawsuits in 10
countries and European Union regulators have started an
antitrust probe of the companies’ use of smartphone patents.  A Milan court will hold a hearing Dec. 16 concerning
Samsung’s Italian suit. Samsung won a Dec. 3 decision in
 California , when the U.S. District Court in  San Jose  rejected
Apple’s request to block Samsung’s 4G smartphone and its Galaxy
10.1 tablet computer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 