-- 
San Francisco Gasoline Strengthens on Bay Area Refinery Upsets

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-12-08T21:10:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/san-francisco-gasoline-strengthens-on-bay-area-refinery-upsets.html
San Francisco  gasoline strengthened
against futures after  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
reported unit upsets and starts at their refineries in Northern
California.  California-blend gasoline in  San Francisco  rose 3.5 cents
to a premium of 1.5 cents a gallon versus gasoline futures on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 2:10 p.m. New York time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fuel fell to the
lowest level since Aug. 16 yesterday after Chevron said units at
the  El Segundo  refinery had recovered from a  power failure .  ConocoPhillips was starting a hydrocracker yesterday at the
 Rodeo  refinery after a hydrogen plant shutdown Dec. 5, and Shell
was starting a Dimersol unit at the  Martinez  refinery, according
to filings with county regulators.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  was also buying
gasoline off the  spot market , according to Bob van der Valk, an
independent fuel pricing analyst.  “The LA gasoline price reversed this morning after Chevron
came out and bought heavily in the spot market this morning,”
van der Valk, in Terry,  Montana , said in an e-mail.  All units at Chevron’s El Segundo refinery were operating
normally after a wind storm Nov. 30 knocked out power to the
region, Rod Spackman, a company spokesman at the refinery, said
in an e-mail yesterday.  Carbob in  Los Angeles  rose for the first time in four days,
by 4.5 cents to a premium of 4.5 cents against futures.  California-blend diesel, known as CARB diesel, in  Los
Angeles  slipped 0.62 cent to a discount of 3.5 cents to heating
oil futures traded on the Nymex. The same fuel in  San Francisco 
strengthened 2.25 cents to a discount of 2.25 cents to futures.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon , was
unchanged at a discount of 7 cents to futures, the lowest level
since August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  