-- 
Scene Last Night: Jessica Biel, Zac Efron, Seth Meyers, De Niro

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-12-08T15:55:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/scene-last-night-jessica-biel-zac-efron-seth-meyers-de-niro-bon-jovi.html
The 10th annual Tribeca Film
Institute Inc. benefit last night began with a screening of
“New Year’s Eve” at the Ziegfeld Theatre and ended in the
ballroom of the Hilton New York, where guests mingled with stars
around replicas of the Times Square New Year’s Eve ball.  Robert De Niro , a co-founder of the institute, chatted with
board member Todd Wagner, who is chief executive officer of 2929
Entertainment.  Institute co-founder Jane Rosenthal spent time with cast
members of “The 2-2,” a new CBS show about rookies at a police
precinct in Harlem for which she is a producer. Novelist Richard
Price is the writer, and it will air sometime in the spring of
2012.  One of producers for “New Year’s Eve,” Wayne Rice, said he
chatted on the red carpet with Jon Bon Jovi about Soul Kitchen,
the musician’s restaurant in  New Jersey  where diners pay what
they can.  “He said the middle class is the new face of the
homeless,” Rice reported.  One guest asked  Zac Efron  to dance. “Twist my arm,” Efron
said. “I will if you can find Michelle Pfeiffer,” he added,
referring to his on-screen dance partner.  Seth Meyers  hung out with his on-screen wife, Jessica Biel,
on the edge of the dance floor.  Meyers is spending New Year’s Eve performing at the Borgata
in  Atlantic City . He expects to be able to kiss his girlfriend,
Alexi Ashe, at midnight.  “The second show starts at 10:30,” Meyers said, “so
worst-case scenario, she comes on stage for the kiss. She’s
allowed to do that. It’s in the contract.”  Biel’s Boy  In the film, Meyers spends New Year’s Eve in the hospital
as Biel gives birth to a boy. Did the part get him and Ashe
thinking about parenthood?  “We try not to let cinema influence our major life
decisions,” Meyers said.  Over by the dessert buffet,  David Solomon ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  co-head of  investment banking , shared his New Year’s
Eve destination: Cabo.  “We travel with 10 families,” Solomon said. “It started
with one man who invited a bunch of people he knew from all
walks of life. Our kids have all grown up together.”  As for beach time, “I don’t tan very well,” he said.  “I tan great,” added his wife, Mary Solomon, who had a
quibble with the film: There was no scene at the  American Museum
of Natural History , where she is a trustee. (The film’s
locations include the Queens Museum of Art, the Brooklyn Museum
and Lincoln Center.)  Her husband’s resolution for 2012: “You have to be
optimistic, try to have fun and do some good.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 