-- 
Scotiabank, CIBC Top Bonus Increases After Record Bank Profits

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-12-08T14:20:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/scotiabank-cibc-boost-bonuses-most-among-canadian-banks-on-record-profits.html
Bank of  Nova Scotia  and  Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce  had the highest jump in incentive pay
this year among  Canada ’s six-biggest banks as record profits for
the group led to a 6.9 percent increase in bonuses.  Scotiabank, Canada’s third-biggest lender, boosted
performance-based compensation by 24 percent, while CIBC set
aside 11 percent more for bonuses, according to earnings reports
this month.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the country’s largest lender,
was the only firm to cut pay.  Canada’s six-biggest banks collectively set aside C$9.47
billion ($9.39 billion) in incentive compensation for the year
ended Oct. 31, compared with $8.86 billion in 2010, according to
company reports. Bonus pools rose after the lenders posted
combined record profits of C$23.6 billion, up 15 percent from a
year ago.  “A lot of people have done a pretty good job of building
businesses and creating profits in a pretty bad environment,”
said Jim Beqaj, founder of Toronto-based consulting and
recruitment firm Beqaj International Inc. “Bonuses are,
depending on who you are, probably anywhere from flat to up a
little bit. And flat is a big win, especially coming up into
difficult times.”  Bonus pools at Canadian banks rose as year-end payouts at
their U.S. and European counterparts are poised to plunge. Wall
Street financial-services professionals can expect to receive
“sharply lower” year-end bonuses in 2011 compared with the
previous year, according to a Nov. 8  report  by New York-based
compensation consultants Johnson Associates Inc. Global firms
have cut more than 200,000 jobs this year, eclipsing the 174,000
in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Job Cuts  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said this week it will cut about 4,500 jobs
to reduce costs amid slumping revenue and “unprecedented”
market conditions, joining firms including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
and  UBS AG (UBSN)  in slashing positions. European banks may be forced
to cut more jobs as the sovereign-debt crisis erodes earnings
and higher  capital requirements  force lenders to sell assets and
shrink balance sheets.  Canadian lenders, ranked the world’s soundest for four
straight years by the Geneva-based  World Economic Forum , haven’t
announced any major job reductions this year.  Canadian banks bolstered profits from  consumer lending  and
asset management, helping counter declines in trading revenue
and a slowdown in investment banking at some firms.  The pools reflect the amount reserved, not paid out, and
don’t include base salaries and other compensation. Bonuses are
typically awarded this month.  Scotiabank  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s performance-based compensation rose
to C$1.35 billion as the lender added 4,590 employees through
acquisitions. Scotiabank bought an investment-banking unit of
Commerzbank AG in  Brazil , Uruguay’s Nuevo Banco Comercial and
took over DundeeWealth Corp. in Canada. The bank said 14 percent
of the increase was related to acquisitions and 4 percent was
tied to commissions linked to revenue growth in  wealth
management .  CIBC, the No. 5 bank, increased performance-based
compensation to C$1.23 billion after the Toronto-based lender
posted a 65 percent jump in annual profit at its CIBC World
Markets unit.  Royal Bank, also based in Toronto, set aside C$3.3 billion
for variable compensation this year, the highest among Canada’s
lenders. That’s 1 percent less than in 2010. The amount includes
commissions paid to investment advisers, according to Janice Fukakusa, the lender’s chief financial officer.  Royal Bank will be paying “moderate bonuses that reflect
performance” for Canadian consumer banking employees. Bonuses
at  RBC Capital Markets  may be “still on the low side” compared
with other investment banks, Fukakusa said in a Dec. 2 interview.  TD Securities  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  increased
incentive compensation by 7.2 percent. Toronto-Dominion, the
second-largest lender, reserved C$1.43 billion for bonuses,
while Bank of Montreal, the fourth-largest, set aside C$1.56
billion.  “Not only did we have a good year in terms of earnings,
but we repositioned the company,” Chief Executive Officer
William Downe said in a Dec. 6 interview. “What that implies is
that if you work here we’re going to do well this year and we’re
going to do well in the long-term.”  National Bank of Canada (NA) ’s variable compensation rose 13
percent to C$602 million, as asset management and consumer
lending led the annual profit rise at the Montreal-based bank.  Happy Bankers  “Employees at the investment banks seem happy,” Bill Vlaad, president of Toronto-based recruitment firm Vlaad & Co.
said. “Bonus increases are back to 2009 levels, and in many
cases are up 15 to 25 percent.”  Newer investments such as agricultural business and
alternative energy are starting to pay off, while mining and
energy continue to do well, Vlaad said. Sales and trading are
unchanged or slightly down on a tough last six months, and there
were reductions in proprietary trading, liability and structured
products that ate into bonus pools, he said.  Research departments face pressure on expenses, and credit
groups are trimming jobs to keep costs in control, Vlaad said.  “The  investment banking  business looks good for next year,
with M&A looking strong, which will translate to better bonuses,”
Vlaad said. “It all depends, however, on whether sales and
trading can make money as to how good it will be.”  Fixed-Income Traders  In the U.S., fixed-income traders will be hardest hit, with
payouts expected to fall by as much as 45 percent, according to
Johnson Associates. Equities traders and senior managers will
see bonuses cut by up to 30 percent, while payouts for
investment bankers may drop by 20 percent.  London bankers may see bonuses shrink by about a fifth from
last year as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis crimps revenue. The
average worker in the U.K. capital’s Square Mile and Canary
Wharf financial districts expects to get a bonus valued at about
19,920 pounds ($31,080), or 24 percent of their base pay,
according to a survey by recruitment firm Astbury Marsden.
That’s down from about 35 percent of base pay, or 25,570 pounds
last year. The estimate is based on an average salary of 83,000
pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  