-- 
Senate Republicans Block Cordray for CFPB

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-12-08T18:09:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/senate-republicans-block-obama-nominee-cordray-as-head-of-consumer-bureau.html
Republicans in the U.S. Senate today
blocked the nomination of  Richard Cordray  as the first director
of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The vote, on a
motion to end debate, was 53-45, with 60 votes required to move
the nomination ahead.  In a televised statement after the vote, President  Barack Obama  insisted his administration would continue its efforts to
get Cordray, a former Ohio attorney general, into the job.  “We are not giving up on this,” Obama told reporters.
“We are going to keep going at it.”  Asked whether he was contemplating a recess appointment,
Obama told reporters he “won’t take any options off the
table.”  So far, Republicans have prevented Obama from making recess
appointments by holding short sessions, just a few minutes each,
during vacation periods. A recess appointment allows a president
to put people temporarily in posts that normally would require
Senate confirmation by naming them when Congress has formally
adjourned.  After the vote, the Senate’s third-ranking Democrat  called
on Obama to use “all possible means” to get Cordray, now the
bureau’s top enforcement official, into the director post.  “He should do everything within his power to get Cordray
on board,” Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York  told reporters.  Senate Democrats and the White House had pressed for the
vote, even though it was clear that Republicans had enough votes
to block the motion to end debate.  Republican Letter  In May, 44 Senate Republicans pledged to oppose any nominee
for the position of director until changes are made in the
structure and funding of the agency. Senator Dean Heller of
 Nevada  subsequently made for a bloc of 45 who said they would
oppose confirmation of any appointee. Republicans hold 47 Senate
seats.  “The president has made his decision and we’ve made
ours,” Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  said on
the Senate floor before the vote.  McConnell has repeatedly complained that Democrats never
responded to their letter. Schumer said no answer or offer to
compromise would be forthcoming.  “We will never engage in any attempt to permanently gut
this agency,” Schumer said. “We will not negotiate with them
on any plan.”  Limited Powers  Without a confirmed director, the consumer bureau cannot
use key powers accorded it under the Dodd-Frank law, notably the
ability to regulate non-bank financial institutions such as
mortgage originators and payday lenders.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said in a statement
that “Americans deserve the full protections signed into law
under Wall Street reform. The longer the Senate fails to confirm
Richard Cordray to lead the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, the longer they will be denied that protection.”  Noting that Republicans had not challenged Cordray’s
qualifications for the job, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
accused opponents, most of whom voted against Dodd-Frank, of
straightforward opposition to federal consumer protection.  “This is the first time in Senate history a party has
blocked a qualified candidate solely because they disagree with
the existence of the agency that’s being created by law,” Reid,
a Nevada Democrat, said on the Senate floor.  In today’s vote, all Republicans opposed the motion to end
debate except for Senator Olympia Snowe of Maine, who had signed
the letter in May and voted “present,” and Senator  Scott Brown 
of  Massachusetts , who voted “yea.”  Senator  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat, did not vote.  Elizabeth Warren   Obama nominated Cordray to be the bureau’s director in
July, about a year after signing the Dodd-Frank financial
regulatory overhaul into law. The president had considered
naming Harvard Law School professor Elizabeth Warren, a longtime 
consumer advocate who set up the bureau, but backed down after
then-Senator  Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut Democrat, said that
she could not win confirmation.  Warren is now seeking the Democratic nomination to run
against Brown in Massachusetts for his Senate seat next year.  “I have a word for some of my Republican friends,”
Schumer told reporters. “If they think they can keep silencing
these strong consumer advocates, they just mind find one joining
us on the Senate floor a year from now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  