-- 
Serb Dinar Gains on Investment Outlook Trumping EU Delay Concern

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-12-08T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/serb-dinar-gains-on-investment-outlook-trumping-eu-delay-concern.html
Serbia ’s dinar is the second-best
performing currency in  Europe  this year as investors bet the
Balkan nation’s ability to attract foreign capital will outweigh
the prospect of a delay in European Union entry.  The dinar gained 0.8 percent against the euro in a single
day on Dec. 2 after Societe Generale SA said it will increase
lending in the former Yugoslav republic. It has advanced 2.7
percent this year, more than any European currency except the
Moldovan leu as the 27-nation EU’s markets have been wracked by
the sovereign-debt crisis.  Optimism over investment and economic prospects are rising,
outweighing concern the EU will reject Serbia’s candidacy status
today because the Belgrade government hasn’t contained violence
in the breakaway republic of Kosovo.  Germany ’s deputy foreign
minister last week said Serbia faces “serious stumbling
blocks” after Nov. 30 attacks by Kosovar Serbs wounded Austrian
and German peacekeepers.  “I don’t think anyone these days buys Serbia on the back
of the EU accession story,” Timothy Ash, the head of emerging
markets at the Royal Bank of  Scotland  in  London , said in a Dec.
6 e-mail . “I don’t tend to think investors will be
particularly concerned by the latest development” as they
“don’t see EU accession in quite the same light anymore after
Euro periphery problems.”  Serbia, shunned by western investors under former President
 Slobodan Milosevic , has made progress in overhauling its economy
and stabilizing the political system, the European Commission
said on Oct. 12, when it recommended candidate status.  ‘Poor’ Timing  EU ministers on Dec. 5 declined to give firm support for
the country’s candidacy, leaving it to a summit of the trading
bloc today to make the final decision. At the same meeting, EU
leaders will be grappling with the sovereign-debt crisis and
downgrade warnings, making Serbia less of a focus.  “The timing is very poor for Serbia” and “reform and
expansion fatigue has become entrenched,” Richard Segal, a
London-based  emerging markets  strategist at Jefferies & Co, said
in a Dec. 6 e-mail.  Serbia has been counting on closer ties with the EU and
working to tear down political, economic and legal obstacles to
entry as it seeks investment to keep the economy from falling
back into recession.  Authorities turned over Radovan Karadzic, Ratko Mladic and
 Goran Hadzic , all suspects of war atrocities during the conflict
that led to  Yugoslavia ’s collapse, completing cooperation with
The Hague-based United Nations war crimes tribunal.  Strained Relations  The government in Belgrade refuses to recognize the
independence of Kosovo, the center of a 1999 attack against
Serbia by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.  Relations between Belgrade and the Kosovar capital Pristina
soured further after the former province declared a trade ban on
Serbian goods and sought to gain control of cross-border trade
in the province’s Serb-populated north.  Local Serbs have maintained roadblocks since and
occasionally clashed with NATO troops, who try to ensure free
access at checkpoints.  Lutz Roehmeyer, a  fund manager  at Landesbank Berlin Invest
in Berlin who oversees 11.5 billion euros ($15.3 billion), said
a political setback would “not be a big drama.”  “With so little foreign investors involved, there is no
big disappointment, as the ones who are invested, like us, did
not expect a smooth ride in EU talks,” Roehmeyer said in a Dec.
6 e-mail.  The currency and bonds will be more affected, Roehmeyer
said, by elections next year.  Falling Support  Support for the policies of President  Boris Tadic  and Prime
Minister Mirko Cvetkovic has eroded since July among the 60,000
Serbs who live in  Kosovo ’s north. A third of them, unhappy with
the government’s efforts to make peace with the Pristina
government, applied for Russian citizenship last month, saying
they feared violence may escalate.  Overall public support in Serbia for EU entry sank to a
record-low 53 percent in a June 16-17 poll from 57 percent in
December, according to a poll conducted by the country’s EU
Integration Office.  Candidacy benefits for Serbia would include help with
structural reforms and infrastructural projects and the gradual
lowering of trade barriers, said Eldar Vakhitov, an economist at
London-based  Barclays Capital .  Societe Generale, in a note yesterday, was more positive
about today’s decision.  Confidence Booster  “While, there is still a great deal of uncertainty about
the outcome, we ultimately believe that Serbia stands a good
chance to gain membership candidate status, which would
represent a significant boost to investor confidence,” Benoit
Anne, London-based head of emerging-market strategy at  Societe
Generale , wrote in the research note..  Even so, Serbian leaders are seeking to prepare the
electorate for a potential disappointment.  “In spite of everything that has been achieved, it is
still uncertain whether Serbia will get the candidate status or
if it will be conditioned in a way unacceptable for Serbia,”
said Tadic in a statement posted on his website on Dec. 6.
“Therefore, let’s wait for Dec. 9 when the EU will make the
final decision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  