-- 
Shane Battier Says He’s Joining LeBron James on Miami Heat in Twitter Post

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-12-08T15:58:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/shane-battier-says-he-s-joining-lebron-james-on-miami-heat-in-twitter-post.html
Shane Battier said he will sign with
the  Miami Heat , joining All-Stars  LeBron James  and Dwyane Wade
on a team that reached the National Basketball Association
Finals last season.  Battier is the first prominent free agent to disclose his
plans following a work stoppage that shortened the NBA’s season
-- scheduled to begin Dec. 25 -- to 66 games from 82.  “This was a exciting process and after much deliberation,
I would like to quote the great poet Jimmy Buffett and take my
chances ‘Trying to Reason with Hurricane Season,’” Battier said
in a post on Twitter.  The 33-year-old forward followed that with another post on
the social networking website: “Let’s Go #Heat!!!!!”  Battier, a 10-year NBA veteran, finished last season with
the  Memphis  Grizzlies after beginning the campaign with the
Houston Rockets. He played his first five years in Memphis
before joining the Rockets for the 2006-07 season.  “The lockout gave me lots of time to consider what was
important to me at this stage of my life and career,” Battier
said in another Twitter post. “Over the last week, I’ve played
out every scenario in my head over and over. It always came back
to one thing for me: a winning role.”  The Heat, led by James, Wade and All-Star Chris Bosh, were
beaten in six games by the Dallas Mavericks in the NBA Finals in
June.  Tim Donovan, a spokesman for the Heat, declined to comment
on Battier’s posts in an e-mail. Jim Tanner, Battier’s agent,
didn’t immediately respond to a telephone message left at his
office.  Career Statistics  Battier has averaged 9.6 points, 4.7 rebounds and two
assists per game in his career and is known as a strong
defender.  After completing terms of a 10-year collective bargaining
agreement yesterday, the players and owners are expected to
ratify the deal today in time for training camps to open
tomorrow.  Other unrestricted free agents on the market include Tyson Chandler,  David West , Caron Butler, Kris Humphries, Nene, Jason Richardson and  Glen Davis .  All-Stars Chris Paul of the  New Orleans Hornets  and  Dwight Howard  of the Orlando Magic both will be free agents after the
2011-12 season, meaning their teams may look to work trades
before then if re-signing isn’t possible.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 