-- 
Shanghai Will Add Dry-Bulk, Tanker Indexes Next Year in Baltic Challenge

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-08T03:06:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/shanghai-will-add-dry-bulk-tanker-indexes-next-year-in-baltic-challenge.html
Shanghai Shipping Exchange , based in
 China ’s busiest port, will introduce indexes tracking
international dry-bulk and oil-tanker rates next year as it
challenges  London ’s 267-year-old Baltic Exchange.  The Chinese bourse plans to begin trading of derivatives
tied to those indexes in May or June, Yu Jun, president of
Shanghai Shipping Freight Exchange Co., said in an interview
yesterday. The products will track shipments to China from
Brazil,  Australia  and the  Middle East , he said in Shanghai.  The instruments are “urgently needed,” Yu said, to help
importers of raw materials cut the risk from fluctuations in
freight rates.  Trading of  derivatives  linked to Shanghai’s first dry-bulk
index, following domestic coal-shipping fees, started yesterday
as the bourse begins to compete against  Baltic Exchange  indexes
that were used to settle about $24 billion of forward freight
agreements last year. The London-based exchange runs the Baltic
Dry Index, the global benchmark for commodity-shipping rates.  Shanghai Shipping Exchange’s derivatives won’t be linked to
Baltic indexes, according to a text message from the Chinese
bourse.  The Baltic Exchange, which traces its  roots  back to 1744,
has about 600 corporate members, according to its  website .  “We are very comfortable with what the Baltic provides to
the forward freight agreement market,” Baltic Exchange Chief
Executive Officer Jeremy Penn said by telephone yesterday. The
shipping industry is best served by a single liquid market, he
said.  Speculation tied to indexes has exacerbated fluctuations in
shipping rates caused by vessel supply and demand. The  Baltic
Dry Index  doubled in 2007, slumped 92 percent in 2008, almost
tripled in 2009 and fell 41 percent last year.  Shanghai, home to the world’s busiest cargo-box port, in
June  introduced  derivatives tied to container-shipping indexes,
tracking spot rates on 15 routes including to  Europe , the
Mediterranean and the U.S. Yu declined to comment on liquidity
or trading frequencies for these products. The Baltic Exchange
doesn’t run indexes linked to cargo boxes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  