-- 
Silverstein Partners With Poland’s Richest Man in Warsaw Real Estate Deal

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-12-09T17:23:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/silverstein-links-with-poland-s-richest-man-for-first-property-deal-abroad.html
Larry Silverstein , after more than
five decades of investing almost entirely in  New York City real
estate , is making his first foray abroad in  Poland , one of
Europe’s most in-demand property markets.  The developer of office towers at Manhattan’s World Trade
Center site has teamed with  Jan Kulczyk , Poland’s richest man,
on a 500 million-euro ($666 million) venture to buy and develop
properties, beginning in Kulczyk’s home country. They made their
first purchase, an eight-story Warsaw office building, in
August, and are working on plans to add towers to the Polish
capital’s skyline.  Kulczyk has “done everything, but one thing he hasn’t done
much of is real estate development,” Silverstein, 80, said in
an interview. “It took a little while to understand his goals,
and to make sure his goals coincided with ours. And, at the end
of the day, they do.”  The partnership is an element of Silverstein Properties
Inc.’s strategy to expand beyond its New York base, which also
includes building a Four Seasons hotel at Walt Disney World
Resort in  Orlando ,  Florida , and preliminary contacts in  China .
Poland has displaced  Russia  as the “strongest magnet” for
foreign real estate investment in Europe, the  Middle East  and
Africa, according to a report by Real Capital Analytics Inc.  In the 12 months ended Oct. 31, foreign investors poured
$3.4 billion into Polish commercial properties, compared with
$1.6 into Russia’s, New York-based Real Capital said in a report
last month. Most of the demand is for retail and office
buildings, according to  Dan Fasulo , managing director at the
research firm, which tracks commercial real estate sales.  ‘Financial Capital’  Poland is appealing because of its “very stable economy,”
said Mickey Kupperman, Silverstein Properties’ chief operating
officer. Warsaw “is perhaps on its way to being the financial
capital of eastern Europe, so we see great opportunity there,”
he said in an e-mail.  For Silverstein, it’s a good time to start investing abroad
because his company has “an increasing comfort about where we
are in terms of the other projects,” he said. One of his lower
 Manhattan  towers, 4 World Trade Center, is up to the 56th of 72
planned stories, according to the developer. Bases are under
construction for two other buildings at the site, where the twin
towers stood before the 2001 terrorist attacks. Last year, he
completed the second of two apartment towers at the western end
of 42nd Street.  Warsaw Skyscraper  Kulczyk Silverstein Properties, as the venture is known,
plans to build a 426-foot (130-meter) skyscraper in central
Warsaw to be called the Chmielna Tower. The company is awaiting
final approval from the city, Piotr Krawczynski, managing
director of Kulczyk Silverstein, said in a telephone interview
from the capital. From there, the partnership is focused on
central and eastern Europe, he said.  Kulczyk, 61, is chairman of  Kulczyk Oil Ventures Inc. (KOV) ,
which explores and develops oil deposits in Southeast Asia, the
Middle East and Europe. With a net worth of $2.6 billion, he’s
Poland’s wealthiest man, according to Forbes magazine, and No.
440 on its list of the world’s richest people. He’s among the
largest shareholders in  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s No. 2 brewer,
whose brands include Miller, Coors Light, Grolsch and Peroni
beers.  Silverstein “is able to execute things others may call
dreams,” Kulczyk said in an e-mail. “On top of that, we like
each other as individuals and we share views and tastes in
relation to different things, not only business.”  Focus on Offices  The partners plan to spend about 500 million euros of their
own money over the next five to seven years to invest mainly in
office properties, according to Krawczynski. They’re aiming to
invest about 1 billion euros, or $1.33 billion, including debt,
he said.  Kulczyk said he envisions a portfolio of about 13 to 17
properties, primarily focused on office towers.  “The region still lacks world-class buildings and
architecture” that would meet the expectations of “more and
more demanding customers,” he said.  Warsaw is an undersupplied office market, said Richard
Petersen, managing partner of Cushman & Wakefield Poland, an arm
of New York-based commercial-property brokerage Cushman &
Wakefield Inc. The third-quarter vacancy rate in the city’s
central business district was 7.2 percent, lower than almost any
U.S. market and the third-lowest in  Europe  after  London ’s West
End and  Madrid , according to the firm.  Top-Tier Space  The city has about 3.6 million square meters (38.3 million
square feet) of top-tier  office space , almost all of it built
since 1994, he said.  “It’s about half the size it could be,” Petersen said.
“We think it could go to about 7 or 8 million square meters
over the next 10 to 12 years.”  Demand comes from corporations seeking regional offices in
eastern Europe, banks, insurance and accounting companies, and
“quite a big pharmaceutical sector,” he said.  Kulczyk and Silverstein teamed up in late 2009 or early
2010, Kupperman said. After a year of organizing and forming an
investment strategy, the partnership made its  first deal  in
August, buying the 10,678-square-meter Stratos Office Center in
central Warsaw. The price was $50.3 million, according to  Real
Capital . Tenants include the Belgian Embassy and BRE Leasing, a
unit of Commerzbank AG.  Europe’s ‘Green Light’  Poland’s economy is among the strongest in Europe and has
benefited from its use of the zloty rather than the euro,
according to Patrick O’Gorman, director of central and eastern
European capital markets for  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG) , the world’s
biggest commercial property brokerage.  “It was the only country not to have a recession in
Europe,” O’Gorman said in a telephone interview from Warsaw.
“It was a green light in a sea of red, and that attracted a lot
of positive attention to Poland.”  Poland is the European Union’s largest eastern economy,
with gross domestic product of $469 billion last year, and the
largest of the former Soviet satellites to join the European
Union between 2004 and 2007.  The economy expanded 4.2 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier, above economist expectations. That’s triple the
rate of the 17-nation  euro zone , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Euro Crisis  Poland may not keep up that pace as the sovereign-debt
crisis roils the euro area, which buys more than half of Polish
exports. The  International Monetary Fund  said today it expected
Poland’s economy to grow 2.5 percent next year, matching the
government’s forecast.  The country faces potential fallout from the turmoil, with
banks likely to limit lending as they deal with unpaid debt in
such nations as  Greece , said Petersen of Cushman.  While credit for property deals may “tighten up a bit,”
Petersen said he expects Poland to ride out the debt crisis
better than other European nations. “You can still get
financing, albeit on worse terms,” he said.  An “increasing supply pipeline” in Warsaw’s office market
suggests that rents in the city “could come under pressure next
year,” James Purvis, a real estate economist at London-based
Capital Economics Ltd., wrote in a note Dec. 6.  About 550,000 square meters of offices are under
construction in the capital, which will add about 15.5 percent
to current stock, according to Purvis.  Yields ‘Fairly Low’  Poland’s success has made it harder for foreign investors
to profit there, said Lars Ohnemus, chief executive officer of
Copenhagen-based BPT Asset Management A/S, which hasn’t bought
property in the country since 2008. He said last year that
Warsaw real estate “is over,” and affirmed that view in an
interview last week.  “You’ve had a lot of U.S. and German investors in the
market, so yields at this point in time are fairly low,”
Ohnemus said. “If you’re a short- to medium-term investor, I
don’t think there’s a lot to gain right now.”  The “overwhelming majority” of interest in Polish real
estate is coming from cross-border investors, according Real
Capital’s Fasulo. Domestic pension funds are prohibited by law
from directly owning property and lack sufficient equity to
compete with established money managers from outside the
country, Lukasz Lorencki, a Cushman & Wakefield analyst based in
Poland, said in an e-mail.  “If there’s a euro zone collapse, everything’s going to
slow down,” Fasulo said. “If there isn’t, I expect more of the
same. I expect Poland to outperform not only just other emerging
economies but even some of the other established economies in
Europe because of the strength of the underlying fundamentals.”  Kulczyk said the partnership doesn’t intend to pull back if
the Polish economy slows down.  “In the real estate business, you need to take a much
longer view and invest in properties that will preserve value,
not only over time, but also over crisis,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  