-- 
Growth More Than Debt Key to Understanding Euromess: Ezra Klein

-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 
2011-12-08T00:37:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/slow-growth-more-than-debt-is-key-to-euro-mess-commentary-by-ezra-klein.html
On my  blog , I tried for a while to
get the term “Euromess” to catch on. Fail. The world seems to
have settled on “the European debt crisis” as the accepted term
for the run on sovereign bonds that’s bedeviling the euro area.
So I gave in and started calling it “the European debt crisis,”
too. Now I’m regretting it.  I’ve spent the last week in  Germany  talking to policy
makers, business leaders and bankers. One thing has become
clear: This isn’t a debt crisis. This is a crisis first of
growth, then of institutions, and only then of debt.  It’s easy enough to prove that this is about more than
debt. Let’s start with a puzzle.  Q: What do these  six numbers  stand for -- 81, 100, 67, 121,
81, 84 -- and what don’t they have in common?  A: According to the  International Monetary Fund , those are
the respective percentages of gross-debt-to-gross domestic
product of the U.K., the U.S., Spain,  Italy ,  France  and  Canada .
But the U.K., the U.S. and Canada can each borrow for 10 years
at a rate slightly above 2 percent.  Spain , which has the lowest
debt-to-GDP ratio of the bunch, is paying more than double that.
And note that the U.S. and the U.K., in addition to having
larger debt-to-GDP ratios than Spain, also have the largest
total debts of any nation on the list.  This is about much more than debt, and the Germans and the
European Central Bank know it. They could stop the run on the
European periphery. But they don’t want to. They see it as an
opportunity. The run is exposing underlying deficiencies in the
euro area and putting the periphery economies under enormous
pressure, and that’s giving Germany and the European Central
Bank the leverage they need to make changes to the currency
union itself.  The institutional concerns were put quite starkly in a
recent report from UBS: “The euro should not exist,” the report
stated. “More specifically, the euro as it is currently
constituted -- with its current structure and current membership
-- should not exist.”  The German Take  That’s basically the German take, too. You hear it
everywhere you go. “You can’t have a currency union without a
fiscal union.” Some say they need a political union, too.  But the truth is,  Europe  can have all that and still fail
because the crisis has another powerful driver: slow growth. The
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development projects
that, continentwide, Europe will grow 0.6 percent in 2012 and
1.7 percent in 2013. Remove the strong performers like Germany
and the Netherlands and it’s quickly apparent that the growth
prospects for the others are grim.  From about 1997 to 2005, Italy and Spain were actually
cutting their debt-to-GDP levels. But then the housing bubble
popped, and so too did their growth. The result was a drop in
public revenue, a rise in spending and ballooning deficits. The
austerity packages both countries are now implementing will cut
growth prospects further.  And that’s where things really get tricky. Europe’s
institutional crisis is tough, but ultimately solvable. It’s not
clear the same can be said for the European growth crisis.  The Germans have a prescription: Be more German! After all,
Germany was “the sick man of Europe” as recently as a decade
ago. But tough reforms and a laser focus on exports brought the
economy back. But one of the reasons it’s hard for the European
periphery to be more German is, well, Germany.  Germans admit this. They’ve been the big winner in the
euro. Their exports are cheaper than they have any right to be
because their currency is cheaper than it is has any right to
be. And that’s because weak economies like  Greece , Italy,
 Portugal  and Spain are using it.  Big Losers  The big losers of the euro are, at this point, those same
weak economies. Normally, countries in their situation would
devalue their currency and try to grow through exports. But they
can’t. And to make matters worse, they share a currency with
Germany. Just as they drag the euro down, Germany pulls it up.
So while Germany’s exports are cheaper than they should be,
those of southern Europe are more expensive. The euro is making
those countries less competitive, and less able to grow.  But they can’t just leave the union. If a weak economy
tried to exit the euro area, the run on its financial
institutions would be instant and unstoppable. The economic
chaos would make the current tribulations look like a walk in
the park. So to their dismay, now that those nations are in,
they can’t get out.  A deal is on the table: If the weak nations join the fiscal
union, Germany and the  European Central Bank  will mount a rescue
and the debilitating run on  government bonds  will be over. But
the weak nations worry that without better growth prospects,
joining the fiscal union means giving up sovereignty over their
budgets and accepting economy-crushing austerity.  In other words, if the prospects for growth were good, the
institutional changes would be an easy sell, and the debt
problems would mostly take care of themselves. However, if the
growth isn’t there, then ultimately, the institutional reforms
won’t be sustainable, because the nations on the periphery won’t
be able to reduce debt burdens without destroying their
economies.  That’s why the situation is rightly understood as the
European growth, institutions and debt crisis -- in that order.
Somehow, I doubt that name will catch on, either.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net  