-- 
South Korean Won Falls as Euro Crisis Deters Rate Increase; Bonds Decline

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 
2011-12-08T06:51:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/south-korean-won-falls-bonds-rise-as-euro-crisis-to-keep-bok-rate-on-hold.html
South  Korea ’s won fell the most in
two weeks as the central bank left  interest rates  unchanged for
a sixth month, refraining from boosting borrowing costs at a
time when  Europe ’s debt crisis is hurting exports. Bonds
declined.  The Bank of Korea kept its benchmark seven-day repurchase
rate at 3.25 percent, a decision predicted by all 16 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. European Union leaders meet today in
Brussels to escalate their response to a crisis that led to
bailouts of  Greece , Ireland and Portugal.  “Investors are aware that it will difficult for Europe’s
leaders to announce policies that will surprise the market,”
said Sam Hong, a senior vice-president in charge of currency
strategy at  Shinhan Bank  in Seoul. “The Bank of Korea’s rate
decision didn’t affect the market as investors were expecting
the rate to be held.”  The won dropped 0.5 percent to 1,131.43 per dollar in
Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
biggest drop since Nov. 24. The Kospi Index of shares retreated
0.4 percent.  A German official said yesterday the government will
prevent the temporary European Financial Stability Facility from
continuing to operate when the euro area sets up its permanent
European Stability Mechanism next year. The statement followed a
report in the Financial Times that said officials are
negotiating a plan to run the EFSF even after the permanent ESM
starts operations. The  European Central Bank  will probably lower
its benchmark  rate  to 1 percent from 1.25 percent today, a
separate Bloomberg News survey showed.  Bank of Korea’s Governor Kim Choong Soo said after the rate
review meeting that there was no change in the bank’s rate
normalization stance and that today’s decision was unanimous.  The yield on South Korea’s 3.5 percent bonds due September
2016 climbed two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.52
percent, according to Korea Exchange Inc. prices. Three-year
bond futures fell 0.10 to 104.46, exchange prices show.  The central bank governor’s comments signaled that a rate
cut isn’t likely in the short term, according to Peter Park, a
Seoul-based fixed-income analyst at Woori Investment &
Securities Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  