-- 
South African Manufacturing Slows to 1%, Undermining Recovery in Economy

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-12-08T12:02:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/south-african-manufacturing-slows-to-1-undermining-recovery-in-economy.html
South African  manufacturing  growth
slumped more than economists expected in October to 1 percent,
undermining the recovery in  Africa ’s biggest  economy .  Factory output eased from a revised 8.1 percent in
September, Pretoria-based Statistics  South Africa  said on its
website today. The  median estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of 12
economists was for a gain of 5.7 percent. Output fell a
seasonally adjusted 3.6 percent in the month.  The worsening debt crisis in  Europe , which buys about a
third of South Africa’s manufactured goods, has sapped demand
for exports. That may persuade the Reserve Bank, led by Governor
 Gill Marcus , to keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at a
30-year low of 5.5 percent even as price pressures increase.  “The manufacturing sector is clearly under pressure, and
the unfavorable external environment means it will likely stay
that way for some time,” Nomvuyo Guma, an economist at Standard
Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments.
“The slump in manufacturing production growth is negative for
the gross domestic product growth outlook.”  The rand weakened to 8.1093 per dollar at 1:49 p.m. in
Johannesburg, down from 8.0768 before the release of the
manufacturing data and 8.0237 late yesterday. The yield on the
R157 government bond, due 2015, rose 1 basis point to 6.7
percent today.  Consumer Spending  Manufacturing, which accounts for about 15 percent of
economic output, contracted for a second consecutive quarter in
the three months through September, restricting the economy’s
expansion to an annualized 1.4 percent.  Consumers are leading the recovery in the economy,
benefiting from low interest rates, while production lags. Data
published by the central bank today showed rising consumer
spending helped to spur imports, while exports lagged, widening
the  current account deficit  to an 18-month high of 3.8 percent
of gross domestic product in the third quarter.  “In our view, the  Reserve Bank  has room to cut rates given
the compelling evidence of a struggling economy and an inflation
trajectory that, while rising, is expected to return to within
target range on a sustained basis in 12 months,” Guma said.  Inflation  accelerated to 6 percent in October, the top of
teh central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target band.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  