-- 
South African Current Account Widens to 3.8% as Consumer Spending Rebounds

-- B y   G o r d o n   B e l l   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-12-08T11:11:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/south-african-current-account-widens-to-3-8-as-consumer-spending-rebounds.html
South Africa ’s current account
 deficit  widened to an 18-month high in the third quarter as
export demand weakened, undermining the currency of  Africa ’s
biggest economy.  The shortfall, the broadest measure of trade in goods and
services, swelled to 3.8 percent of gross domestic product from
a revised 2.9 percent in the second quarter as increased
consumer spending boosted imports and dividends paid to
foreigners climbed, the  Reserve Bank  said in its Quarterly
Bulletin released in  Pretoria  today.  South Africa relies on foreign investment in stocks and
bonds to fund the current account gap, flows that reversed in
the third quarter as investors reduced appetite for riskier
assets. Export demand may weaken because of a worsening debt
crisis in  Europe , which buys a third of South Africa’s
manufactured goods, threatening the rand, the worst performer
against the dollar this year.  “What we are really worried about is the export side,”
Isaac Matshego, an economist with  Nedbank Ltd. (NED) , said in an
interview from Johannesburg. “With that sentiment the rand
could come under further pressure. It’s likely to continue in
the current climate.”  The median estimate of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
was for a shortfall of 3.7 percent.  Rand Losses  The rand extended losses, falling 0.7 percent to 8.0704
versus the dollar at 12:39 p.m. in Johannesburg, taking its
decline this year to 18 percent. The yield on the R157
government bond, due 2015, was unchanged at 6.69 percent.  The current account gap, which the government has referred
to as the economy’s “Achilles’ heel,” has narrowed from 8.5
percent in 2008 as growth in Africa’s biggest  economy  stalled.
The deficit widened this year as a recovery in  consumer spending 
added to imports and manufacturing and mining exports slumped.  “The relatively strong growth in domestic expenditure in
the third quarter was accompanied by briskly rising imports and
a narrowing of the  trade surplus  as export proceeds failed to
keep up with rising outlays on imports,” the central bank said.  Import volumes increased 4.6 percent in the third quarter
while exports rose 1 percent, according to the report.  South Africa’s  economy  expanded an annualized 1.4 percent
in the third quarter, little changed from the slowest pace in
almost two years reached in the previous three months, as mining
and manufacturing contracted.  Foreigners withdrew 21.4 billion rand ($2.7 billion) worth
of investments in stocks and bonds in the third quarter, the
first outflow since the final quarter of 2010, and compared with
35.1 billion rand of inflows in the previous three months, the
central bank said.  Direct investment by foreigners, including takeovers and
building of plants, dropped to 2.8 billion rand in the third
quarter, the bank said. Dividend payments to foreigners
increased by about a third in the first three quarters of 2011
compared with a year earlier, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gordon Bell  in Johannesburg at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  