-- 
South Sudan Clashes Leave 40 People Dead, UN Says

-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 
2011-12-09T09:34:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/south-sudan-clashes-leave-at-least-40-people-dead-un-says.html
(Corrects sourcing in second paragraph for story published
on Dec. 8.)  At least 40 people were killed in
ethnic clashes in  South Sudan ’s Jonglei state, where more than
1,000 people have died this year in disputes over cattle, the
 United Nations  said.  The UN Mission in South  Sudan  dispatched an assessment team
to the region after reports that the town of Jalle was attacked
on Dec. 5, Kouider Zerrouk, deputy spokesman for the mission,
said in a phone interview from Juba, South Sudan’s capital. The
attackers, reportedly members of the Murle ethnic group, burned
more than 100 homes, killed children and stole cattle, the UN
News Center reported.  “The clashes are extremely severe,” Zerrouk said.
“According to reports, more than 40 people were killed and
others injured.” Some victims were evacuated by air to the
hospital in Juba, he said.  Jonglei, a western state that borders  Ethiopia , has been a
flashpoint for clashes between rival ethnic groups as well as
between rebel militia and government forces. While the state has
been plagued by cattle rustling in the past, the Murle and Lou
Nuer ethnic groups carried out two separate raids in August that
killed about 600 people, wounded 850 and displaced 26,000,
according to the UN.  Most of Jonglei is covered by Block B, an unexploited oil
concession in which Paris-based  Total SA (FP)  holds a 32.5 percent
stake. Total signed and exploration and production-sharing
agreement in 1980 with the government in Khartoum, capital of
what was then a united Sudan. South Sudan, which declared
independence July 9, has said it plans to begin renegotiating
contracts early next year with non-producing  oil companies .  Peace Talks  After the August attacks, the Sudan Council of Churches
initiated a series of meetings that brought people together in
Murle and Lou Nuer towns to air their grievances. The peace
process was meant to culminate in a Dec. 12-14 meeting of
leaders from both ethnic groups who would sign a peace
agreement.  James Ninrew, a Presbyterian minister and member of the
Nuer Peace Council who has been involved in the  peace process ,
said the meeting is unlikely to take place as scheduled in the
wake of this week’s violence.  “It’s actually a very great setback,” he said by phone
from Juba. The conflict may be exploited by George Athor, a
former army commander who rebelled after losing the election for
state governor and who now heads an anti-government militia,
Ninrew said.  “Unfortunately, this will be an opportunity for Athor to
gain ground,” said Ninrew. “It will be a chance for him to
attract those who want arms and those who want to fight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 