-- 
Spain to Decide in Early 2012 on Bad Bank, PP Official Says

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-12-08T17:09:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/spain-to-decide-in-early-2012-on-bad-bank-pp-official-says-1-.html
Spain ’s new People’s Party-led
government will decide early next year whether to create a so-
called bad bank to remove toxic assets from lenders’ balance
sheets, a party official said.  The PP, which is due to take power later this month after
winning the Nov. 20 general election, hasn’t yet decided whether
it should create the vehicle to buy real-estate assets from
lenders, said the official, who declined to be named because the
deliberations aren’t public. Real-estate assets need to be
valued at their true price, and the process will affect some
banks and not others, he told reporters today.  The PP, which won the election by a landslide, has pledged
a “cleanup and restructuring” of the country’s banking system
to help restore the supply of credit in an economy where lending
is  shrinking  at its fastest pace on record. Spanish banks,
burdened with 176 billion euros ($234 billion) of what the Bank
of Spain terms “troubled” assets linked to real estate, are
fighting to preserve profits as lending slumps and their cost of
financing surges.  Prime Minister-elect  Mariano Rajoy  has asked for at least
two papers from academics on how to create a bad bank, two
people with knowledge of the matter said on Nov. 25. Both
proposals outlined mechanisms for a state-backed agency to buy
soured assets such as real estate from banks at a discount, said
the people.  According to one of the proposals, Spain needs external
financing of about 100 billion euros to absorb the cost of
transferring assets to the bad bank and should seek it from the
European Financial Stability Facility or the  International
Monetary Fund , one of the people said. Both options call for
valuations of real estate to be made by independent appraisers,
the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net 
Emma Ross-Thomas at   erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  