-- 
Spain’s Rajoy Says All Resources Must Be Used to Stop Crisis

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-12-08T16:11:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/spain-s-rajoy-says-all-resources-must-be-used-to-stop-crisis.html
Spanish Prime Minister-elect  Mariano Rajoy  said European leaders must use “all available means and
resources” to fight the sovereign debt crisis ahead of a summit
starting later today in Brussels.  “It is necessary, and without any further delay, to use
all the available means and resources to contain the sovereign
debt hemorrhage,” Rajoy told European People’s Party leaders
gathered today in Marseille, France, as he pledged to cut
Spain’s deficit and change its labor rules.  Europe ’s leaders will convene in Brussels to frame the
fifth “comprehensive” solution in 19 months to a debt crisis
that’s left Germany and France facing the threat of losing their
AAA rating from  Standard & Poor’s . French President Nicolas Sarkozy has joined with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in
pushing “fiscal union” via EU treaty change onto the agenda of
the two-day summit.  Spain will support “more discipline to avoid fiscal
irresponsibility” and provide “a secure environment” for
action against the debt crisis, said Rajoy, the leader of
Spain’s People’s Party. He is due to take office on Dec. 21,
after beating the ruling Socialists in a national election on
Nov. 20. Spain is in favor of “more fiscal rigor and additional
controls” to prevent the debt crisis from repeating itself,
including a change to treaties if necessary, Rajoy said.  Rajoy, who will not be attending the summit, said he had
agreed on a common position with Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero . Rajoy earlier today met with European
Commission President Jose Barroso, Merkel and Sarkozy, after
talks with U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  