-- 
Standard Bank to Fund $1 Billion of Wind, Solar Plants in Renewable Plan

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-12-08T14:06:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/standard-bank-to-fund-1-billion-of-wind-solar-plants-in-renewable-plan.html
Standard Bank Group Ltd. ,  Africa ’s
largest lender, underwrote more than 8.2 billion rand ($1
billion) of wind and solar projects in the first round of South
Africa’s $12 billion renewable energy program.  The government yesterday approved 28 projects to add 1,416
megawatts as the power-short country expands generation capacity
while reducing its reliance on coal-fired power.  Standard Bank  underwrote 605 megawatts, or about 43 percent
of the total, in the 26 billion-rand first round,  Alastair
Campbell , head of power finance at Johannesburg-based Standard,
said by phone today. It’s one of the largest, if not the largest
lender in the first round, Campbell said.  Nedbank said yesterday it underwrote about 6 billion rand.  “All the indications are that we are going to be twice as
busy on bid day two,” he said. The deadline for bids to be
submitted in the second round is in March. Standard underwrote
3.7 billion rand of wind projects and 4.6 billion rand of
photovoltaic solar plants in the first round.  South Africa  invited bids on Aug. 3 to add 3,725 megawatts
by the end of 2016 and at an estimated cost of $10 billion to
$12 billion, Department of Energy Director General Nelisiwe Magubane said Aug. 31. State-owned Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd. has a
virtual monopoly on electricity supplies, accounting for about
95 percent.  The first project approvals mean that “private sector
coming into the market is happening,” Campbell said. “It’s
been talked about for a long time. It’s the first large-scale
step that hopefully signifies that there will be more.”  Standard Bank is providing funding for the 75 megawatt
Solar Capital De Aar (Pty) Ltd. project and 135 megawatts ACED
Cookhouse wind project among others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  