-- 
Standard Chartered Trims Forecast, to Hire 2,000 People

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-12-08T16:39:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/standard-chartered-trims-full-year-forecast.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , which earns
most of its profit in  emerging markets , trimmed its full-year
revenue growth forecast because of Asian currencies’
depreciation against the dollar while unveiling plans to hire
2,000 people.  Income will grow at a “high single-digit rate,” Finance
Director Richard Meddings told journalists on a conference call
today. The London-based bank cited a 1 percent to 5 percent
depreciation in Asian currencies since early November as the
reason for downgrading its earlier forecast of “double digit”
revenue growth for 2011.  Standard Chartered increased its hiring plans this year
from the 1,000 it announced last month and pledged to take on
more people in 2012 even as its four largest U.K. competitors
announce job cuts. HSBC Holdings Plc, which also earns the
majority of its profit from  Asia , said its cutting 30,000 roles
by the end of 2013 while Barclays Plc has cut 3,500 employees
this year.  “Despite the slower income growth, Standard Chartered’s
performance is better than its European peers,” said Lewis Wan,
the Hong Kong-based chief investment officer of Pride
Investments Group Ltd., which manages $200 million of  China 
assets. Revenue growth may slow next year “as Asian companies
have scaled back investment plans, curbing credit demand.”  ‘Benign’ Credit Environment  The net interest margin, or the difference between what a
bank earns on loans and its cost of funding, will climb
“slightly” from the 2010 level, the bank said. Impaired loans
for the year may be lower than the 2010 level, and pretax profit
is likely to grow at a double-digit rate, it forecast.  Full-year income in  Korea  is expected to be “slightly
ahead” of 2010 levels even after a labor strike over a new pay
system, while revenue in  India  may fall, the company said in the
statement.  Singapore , Hong Kong and China helped to mitigate
weaker results in India and South Korea.  Standard Chartered will add more than 1,600 people this
year in its consumer banking business, with almost half in
China, it said today.  “The credit environment remains relatively benign,” Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Sands , 49, said in the statement. “The
growth prospects of our markets in Asia, Africa and the Middle
East remain intact despite the increasing uncertainty in the
West.”  Record Profit  Shares of Standard Chartered have declined 17 percent in
 London  this year, compared with a 33 percent decline in the 46-
stock  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services (BEBANKS)  index. The
shares fell 1.4 percent to 1,434.5 pence in London, valuing the
bank at 34.1 billion pounds ($53 billion).  Standard Chartered in August forecast an eighth successive
year of record profit. The bank’s first-half net income climbed
19 percent to $2.57 billion from a year earlier, according to a
statement on Aug. 3.  The lender, whose origins date to 19th century British
colonial rule in Africa and India, earns more than three-
quarters of its profit from corporate banking, led by Michael Rees. Less than a quarter comes from its consumer unit run by
Steve Bertamini.  Client income from wholesale banking may grow at “around a
double-digit rate,” while revenue from consumer banking is
expected to climb at a double-digit rate, the bank said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  