-- 
Stevens Says Emerging Nations ‘Uncomfortable’ With Western Debts

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-12-08T07:19:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/stevens-says-emerging-nations-uncomfortable-with-western-debts.html
Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor
 Glenn Stevens  said foreign-reserve-rich emerging nations are
concerned about their U.S. and European debt and probably want
to aid indebted developed countries through the  International
Monetary Fund .  “Large reserve holding countries are already getting
uncomfortable with their degree of exposures to major Western
governments,” Stevens said in the text of a speech today in
Sydney. “Hence, any offers of assistance are likely to be made
with a careful eye to risk minimization. This is likely to mean
they will prefer to operate through international institutions,
such as the IMF.”  Stevens spoke a day after Canada said there hasn’t been
discussion among the Group of 20 economies on a specific plan to
boost IMF lending and ease  Europe ’s debt crisis. IMF spokesman
 William Murray  also denied a Nikkei report that the G-20 is
considering a $600 billion lending program.  Stevens didn’t comment on Australian monetary policy and
the outlook for the local economy in his prepared remarks for
the inaugural Warren Hogan Memorial Lecture at the  University of
Sydney  today.  The governor noted that reserves in the world amount to
about 15 percent of global gross domestic product, up from 10
percent five years ago.  China ’s reserves are near 50 percent of
its GDP and many other Asian countries have equivalent ratios
around 30 percent or more, he said.  ‘A Problem’  Stevens said that “large centers of high saving with
portfolios that are overweight in foreign assets whose return is
low and whose value is highly likely to go down, measured in the
currencies of the holders, amounts to something of a problem.”  “To paraphrase the old line, if I owe you a few billion, I
may have a problem,” he said. “If I owe you a trillion or two,
you may have a problem every bit as big as mine.”  The RBA governor also said global regulators need to
understand how and where investors are pursuing “easy money”
to spot excesses and prevent the next financial crisis.  “The key thing in avoiding disastrous crises in the future
is less the specifics of regulation or resolution -- as
important as these are -- than having a clear understanding of
the nature and extent of risk-taking behavior,” he said. “In
what area of risk-taking are the profits large or expected to be
large?”  Stevens said that, should policy makers be able to avoid a
major crisis over the next year and implement planned
regulations -- both of which he called “big ifs” -- the next
financial crisis may not occur in the same financial
institutions as last time.  “It is conceivable that the current trend towards more
assertive and intrusive financial regulation -- which is
occurring for very understandable reasons -- will end up going
much further than contemplated at present,” Stevens said. “The
potential for an outcome that eventually involves significant
inflation is also obvious.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  