-- 
Stocks in India Fall Most in Asia; Reliance Industries, State Bank Drop

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-12-08T12:49:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/stocks-in-india-fall-most-in-asia-reliance-industries-state-bank-drop.html
Indian stocks fell the most in Asia
after the central bank signaled it may not take steps to ease
a cash deficit in the banking system and on concern earnings
will slow amid a freeze in decision-making.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , India’s biggest company by value,
slid the most in three weeks.  Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) , the
biggest power-equipment maker, declined for the first time in
four days.  State Bank of India (SBIN) , the largest lender, dropped the
most in a month.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, sank 2.3 percent
to 16,488.24 at the 3:30 p.m. close, its steepest decline since
Nov. 21. The measure last week advanced the most in 2 1/2 years
amid speculation the  Reserve Bank  of India may boost cash after
 China  cut the reserve ratio for banks for the first time since
2008. CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets today pared its 12-month Sensex
target to 17,000 from 18,200, citing lower earnings and a
“political logjam” that may undermine efforts to revive  Asia ’s
third-biggest economy.  “There was some speculation about CRR cut, but we don’t
see it happening before next year,” K.K. Mital, a  fund manager 
at Globe Capital Markets Ltd., said from  New Delhi . “Concern
about slowing growth, company earnings and policy paralysis has
hurt investor sentiment.”  Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has raised
borrowing costs 13 times since March 2010 to tackle inflation
that has stayed above 9 percent all year. The Sensex has sunk 20
percent this year on concern the record monetary tightening will
compound the effects of the European crisis on earnings.  ‘Compromise Stance’  “The cash reserve ratio is not just a liquidity tool but
also a monetary policy signal and we are still in a situation
where inflationary pressures are high,”  Subir Gokarn , deputy
governor of the RBI, told bankers yesterday. “While we want to
address the liquidity situation we don’t want to do it in a way
that compromises our monetary stance.”  The nation’s $1.7 trillion  economy  grew last quarter at the
slowest pace in almost two years. Prime Minister Manmohan
Singh’s decision yesterday to retreat on plans to let overseas
retailers expand in the country may undermine efforts to revive
growth and curb inflation. Singh bowed to opposition protests
that had forced repeated adjournments of parliament since the
Nov. 24 move to allow foreign investment in multibrand retail.  The Congress-led administration is under pressure to jump
start a legislative agenda hampered by corruption allegations
and street protests. Unfinished economic initiatives include a
proposed tax overhaul and changes to how land is bought for
infrastructure projects.  ‘Significant Risk’  “What’s going to happen in parliament in the remaining few
sessions is going to be a fairly significant event risk as far
as  India  is concerned,” Sanjay Sinha, founder of Citrus
Advisors, told Bloomberg UTV today. “The economy as an engine
is not something that gets into high gear very quickly. If it
gets worse from here, the time it will take for the economy to
get back into a vibrant mode will be elongated.”  Indian stocks also dropped ahead of a European summit on
the region’s sovereign debt crisis. German Chancellor Angela
Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy are expected to
argue for rewriting European Union treaties to tighten control
of national budgets at the meeting of euro zone leaders tonight
and tomorrow.  “It’s going to be one very significant event as far as the
psychology towards the market is concerned,” Sinha said.
“We’re influenced by foreign portfolio flows and that event can
have a bearing on what flows could be going forward.”  Foreign  funds  have reduced holdings of domestic shares by
$2.4 billion from a record $104.4 billion in July, contributing
to the slide in stocks and the rupee, which slid to a record
52.73 on Nov. 22.  ‘Biggest Fear’  CLSA cut its earnings estimate for Sensex companies by 3
percent to 1,269 rupees per share, joining Credit Suisse Group
AG which yesterday pared its earnings forecast by 7 percent to
1,300 rupees for the year ending March 2013.  The Sensex trades at 14.2 times future earnings, near the
lowest level since May 2009. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  is
valued at 10.3 times.  “Stocks will no longer look cheap if earnings are cut,”
said Sadanand Shetty, a Mumbai-based senior fund manager at
Taurus Asset Management Co., which has $1 billion in assets.
“Damage to fiscal 2013 earnings is the biggest fear now.”  Reliance lost 3.8 percent to 778.85 rupees, its steepest
decline since Nov. 17. Bharat Heavy tumbled 5.7 percent to 272.6
rupees, extending this year’s loss to 41 percent.  Larsen &
Toubro Ltd. (LT) , the largest engineering company, shed 5.4 percent
to 1,260.3 rupees.  State Bank  retreated 4 percent to 1,867.9 rupees, ending a
five-day 10.5 percent rally. Nearest rival  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  fell
3.1 percent to 744.3 rupees. As many as 13 stocks in the Sensex
dropped more than 3 percent.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the biggest carmaker, dropped 2.3
percent to 975.9 rupees, extending this year’s decline to 31
percent, the most among automakers on the Sensex.  Mahindra &
Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , the largest maker of sport-utility vehicles and
tractors, slid 3.7 percent to 729.9 rupees.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ,
the biggest truckmaker and owner of Jaguar Land Rover, shed 1.5
percent to 188.55 rupees.  The  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers  may cut its
annual domestic passenger-car sales target as higher borrowing
costs and fuel prices sap demand for vehicles. Car sales rose 7
percent from a year ago to 171,131 vehicles in November after
falling for four straight months, according to data released by
the New Delhi-based group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  