-- 
Student With 0.0 Grade Average Has EU Insight: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-12-08T00:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/student-with-0-0-grade-average-has-eu-insight-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
The never-ending comedy that is
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis has reached its Otter moment.
That’s when the world realizes the fundamental principle guiding
every important government decision is this: “I think that this
situation absolutely requires a really futile and stupid gesture
be done on somebody’s part!”  The quote comes from the 1978 movie “Animal House.” After
the dean of the fictitious college tells the Delta House boys
that he’s expelling them all, the fraternity’s smooth-talking
rush chairman,  Eric “Otter” Stratton , delivers those famed
words of inspiration to his downtrodden brethren.  Bluto , the
drunk with a 0.0 grade-point average played by John Belushi,
says: “We’re just the guys to do it.” Mayhem ensues.  Europe is imitating art. We keep getting futile gestures
from its political leaders in response to the euro area’s debt
troubles. It matters little what form these take, as long as
they placate the markets until the next ad-hoc plan can be
floated. One day it’s “firewalls,” whatever those are. The
next it’s “bazookas.” Now it’s German  domination  of European
political and economic life. There are too many proposals flying
around to keep track.  Here’s the amazing part. The gestures often work. Just like
that, the debt crisis seems to be in remission, if only for a
few days. Last month the annual yield on  Italy ’s 10-year bonds
soared past 7 percent, the same tripwire that spelled doom for
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal . This week it fell below 6 percent.
 Spain ’s 10-year bonds now yield less than 5.4 percent, down from
6.6 percent last week.  Something Awful  The roller-coaster pattern is familiar to anyone who has
watched Europe’s leaders try to keep the global  capital markets 
at bay the past two years. First, something awful happens that
shatters the public’s trust, say Greece going broke, or a big
European bank needing a bailout right after getting a clean bill
of health from regulators. The bond markets panic.  Eventually the credit raters get around to taking notice,
and maybe even downgrading a country here or there. Standard &
Poor’s this week placed the European Union and 15 euro-area
nations on review for possible downgrades. ( France  still has a
AAA rating from S&P somehow, even though the U.S. doesn’t. Go
figure.) Europe’s leaders blame the raters -- anyone but
themselves.  All the while the same leaders, or at least the ones who
have managed to avoid getting thrown out of office, promise
changes to make things better, regardless of their ability to
follow through. The empty words, coupled with the possible
threat someday of large sovereign-debt purchases by the  European
Central Bank , prove enough to frighten the markets’ skeptics and
buy the politicians some time. A total financial collapse is
averted. Then the cycle starts anew.  There’s always another grand meeting or summit just around
the bend that euro-area leaders can point to. This week’s
happens to be in Brussels. They assure us: Just wait till the
leaders (make that technocrats, now) meet there, and you will
see -- problems will be solved, panaceas found. And they never
are.  One difference lately is that the elites are getting more
ambitious about the sheer amount of time they’re seeking to buy
themselves per gesture. It used to be they would delay carrying
out short-term fixes for a week, or maybe a month. Now they want
several months.  This week German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  called for rewriting treaties so that
European countries’ national budgets would be subject to greater
centralized control, as well as automatic penalties in case of
violations. There’s a catch, naturally.  Just Wait  Sarkozy said the changes wouldn’t be drafted until March,
and the amendments wouldn’t be ratified by his country for at
least six months. (How convenient!) There are French elections
that must be held first, you see, including for Sarkozy’s own
office. So whatever the French decide, under this latest plan,
investors will just have to wait patiently until next summer
before deciding which European countries and financial
institutions they will push to the brink of disaster next.  The markets won’t wait, of course. Plus, other countries
might want a say before handing over their sovereignty. Not that
such details matter for these purposes. The objective here is to
come up with something -- anything -- that might have even the
slightest chance of looking plausible to an untrained eye. If
and when the plan falls apart, as these things tend to do, the
next step is simply to dream up another one that’s a bit
snappier, more persuasive.  Make no mistake, though, one day the futile and stupid
gestures will end. Either Europe’s governments will find a way
to continue paying their debt holders on time, or they won’t.
And the longer the charades go on, the more painful the
reckoning will be for everyone. Nobody in this game is fooling
anyone.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 