-- 
Sumitomo Seeks to Build Wind Power Plant Project in South Africa

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 
2011-12-08T09:10:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/sumitomo-seeks-to-build-wind-power-plant-project-in-south-africa.html
Sumitomo Corp. , Japan’s third-largest
trading house, said it’s seeking to build a wind power project
in South Africa with capacity of as much as 600 megawatts as the
nation looks to utilize more of its renewable energy potential.  The Japanese trader has been selected by the South African
government as the “preferred bidder” for a project to set up
and operate 40 turbines with capacity of 2.5 megawatts each,
Keiichi Mihara, Sumitomo’s head of wind power, told reporters in
 Tokyo  today. The project can be later expanded by as much as 500
megawatts, he said.  “We’ve started with wind power, but our interest isn’t
limited to that or renewable energy as a whole,” Mihara said.
“The country has a power shortage, and we’re interested in gas
and coal-fired projects in the region also.”  South Africa  plans to add as much as 41,000 megawatts
before 2030 to mitigate blackouts and support growth in the
economy. Of that, 9,000 megawatts, or 22 percent, will be
through wind power, with Sumitomo being the first Japanese
company to enter the business in the African nation, according
to the trader.  The 20 billion-yen ($257 million) wind farm is one of 3,725
megawatts of renewable projects that South Africa wants to be
completed by 2014. Sumitomo will own 60 percent of the wind farm,
with Dorper Wind Development Ltd. taking 15 percent and Black
Economic Empowerment holding the rest.  Project financing will account for 70 percent of the funds
needed for the wind farm, which will use German turbines, Mihara
said, without identifying the manufacturer. South Africa’s
state-run utility Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd. will buy the farm’s
electricity for 20 years, he said, without elaborating.  Caithness Shepherds Plant  Sumitomo owns two wind power plants in  Japan , totaling 36
megawatts in capacity, and has a 50-megawatt wind project in
 China ’s Inner Mongolia. The trading house this year took a stake
in the 845-megawatt Caithness Shepherds Flat farm in the U.S.
due to start next year, according to Sumitomo.  Separately, Sumitomo said today it will continue to pursue
acquisitions and expand domestic market share in the  information
technology , media and fashion retail businesses, while trying to
find opportunities to grow this division in other Asian
countries, Yoshio Ohsawa, head of the trading house’s lifestyle
and media division, said at a separate briefing in Tokyo today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 