-- 
Sun Hung Kai Raises Home Sales Target for This Year 14% to HK$32 Billion

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-12-08T08:37:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/sun-hung-kai-raises-2012-home-sales-target-14-as-asia-seen-outperforming.html
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , Hong
Kong’s largest developer, raised its 2012 fiscal year home sales
target 14 percent as the city’s property market will withstand a
global economic slowdown.  The company aims to sell HK$32 billion ($4.1 billion) worth
of homes through the sale of 3,700 properties, revising an
earlier target of HK$28 billion from 3,000 units, Eric Chow, an
executive director at the developer’s agency arm, told reporters
at a briefing today. The company has sold HK$23 billion of homes
since July 1, he said.  Hong Kong’s government will ease some of its property-
cooling measures if home prices extend their decline amid
 Europe ’s worsening credit crisis and a global economic slowdown,
the city’s financial secretary  John Tsang  said this week.
Property prices in the city dropped to a six-month-low in
November as used-home transactions slumped as the threat of a
recession dents buyer confidence.  “The impact of global economic uncertainties on Hong Kong
and Asia is much milder” than on the rest of the world,  Thomas Kwok , who takes over as Sun Hung Kai’s co-chairman today, said
at the briefing. Sun Hung Kai still sees “support in the
property market,” he said.  About HK$5.2 billion of the sales for the year will come
from projects in  China , with HK$26.8 billion in Hong Kong, Chow
said. Sun Hung Kai sold HK$37 billion of homes in the previous
fiscal year ended June 30, the company said in September.  Shares Advance  Sun Hung Kai’s shares rose 0.7 percent to HK$99.70 at the
close in Hong Kong, reversing a 1 percent loss. The stock has
declined 23 percent this year, matching the drop in the  Hang
Seng Property Index (HSP) , of which it’s a member. Hong Kong’s
benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  has declined 17 percent this year.  Hong Kong’s government imposed additional taxes last year
and tightened access to mortgages four times since 2009 after
prices jumped 70 percent, underpinned by record-low  interest
rates  and an influx of wealthy Chinese buyers.  Tsang said this week the timing of any loosening of the
property measures was uncertain. “Timing is a judgment call
that I will have to make nearer the time,” he said.  No Price Cut  Sun Hung Kai has sold 90 percent of the 1,028 units at The
Wings project in the Tseung Kwan O area since sales began in
late October, Victor Lui, an  executive director  at its agency
arm, said today. The company hasn’t cut prices at the
development to boost sales, Lui said today.  Sun Hung Kai and its rivals are accelerating home sales to
raise cash and may issue new shares to help finance projects as
credit costs rise amid tightening liquidity at the city’s
lenders, according to Barclays Capital Research.  Hong Kong developers may need to refinance as much as $6.1
billion of syndicated loans in 2012 and a further $4.9 billion
in 2013, Barclays said. Average pricing of syndicated loans to
the city’s biggest companies has risen to about 150 basis points
in October from below 50 basis points in 2007, it said.  Sun Hung Kai has “ample”  cash flow  and doesn’t have a
need to raise funds, Chief Financial Officer Patrick Chan said.  The  Hong Kong  Monetary Authority, the city’s de-facto
central bank, has asked lenders to keep more reserves as part of
their counter-cyclical measures, Chief Executive  Norman Chan 
told reporters in Beijing last month, adding that loan growth
may slow next year on lower mortgage lending.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  