-- 
Millionaires Elbow Insurers Out of Alpine Property Market

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-12-09T09:15:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/swiss-millionaires-elbow-insurers-out-of-geneva-zurich-property-market.html
Swiss insurers are finding property
investments less profitable as millionaires push up apartment
prices in Geneva, Zurich and Basel.  Baloise Holding AG (BALN)  was outbid this summer on an apartment
block in Basel, the country’s third-biggest city, when a wealthy
individual offered 20 million Swiss francs ($21.7 million). At
that price,  Switzerland ’s third-largest insurer would expect
annual net income of 900,000 francs in rent, said Martin Wenk,
Baloise’s head of asset management. That building would have
generated a lower return, he said.  Baloise,  Helvetia Holding AG (HELN)  and  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN) , the
Alpine nation’s biggest private real-estate investor, are being
outmuscled as record-low  interest rates  spur the country’s
352,000 millionaire households to buy property. Private
individuals, seeking to preserve their wealth amid  Europe ’s debt
crisis and declining stock markets, are also being drawn by
eight consecutive years of gains in Swiss apartment prices.  “They accept lower returns, which institutional investors
would not accept,” said Fredy Hasenmaile, head of real-estate
analysis at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in Zurich. “This buyer
behavior could add to the beginning of a property bubble.”  The average price of apartment blocks, which house two or
more families, rose 6 percent in the first nine months of this
year, bringing gains over the past 10 years to about 40 percent,
according to Zurich-based property consultants  IAZI . Insurers
own about 7 percent of the 710 billion francs of Swiss multi-
family properties, Wuest & Partner estimates.  ‘New Phenomenon’  “It’s a new phenomenon,” said Patrick Frost, Swiss Life’s
chief investment officer, who oversees the firm’s 15 billion-
franc real-estate portfolio. “We still have a lot of high-net-
worth individuals in this country and they keep their money
closer to home these days.”  Insurers and pension funds typically invest about 10
million francs, while private individuals usually spend 3
million to 5 million francs, according to IAZI, which surveyed
about 100 billion francs of real-estate assets.  Millionaire households are 9.9 percent of the total in
Switzerland, the second-highest proportion after  Singapore ,
according to  Boston Consulting Group . Their appetite for
property investments was boosted after the Swiss central bank
cut its benchmark rate to zero in August.  Rising real-estate prices are among the greatest threats to
the economy, Swiss National Bank Chairman Philipp Hildebrand
said in June. He warned more than a year ago about the
possibility of a bubble.  ‘Different Objectives’  “Private investors often have different objectives such as
capital protection and they can therefore accept much lower
returns than institutional investors,” said Daniel Haecki, an
associate at  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  in Zurich.  While Swiss insurers, which have invested about 13 percent
of their assets in property, target real-estate returns of about
5.7 percent, they are struggling to find affordable projects,
Jones Lang LaSalle, the world’s second-largest publicly traded
real-estate broker, said in a September survey.  “The competition is clearly increasing, resulting in more
pressure on the returns,” said Ralph-Thomas Honegger, chief
investment officer of Helvetia, the country’s fourth-biggest
insurer. About 13 percent of Helvetia’s 34.4 billion francs of
assets was invested in property at the end of June, almost all
of it in Swiss real estate.  Direct Investing  Wealthy investors have lost their trust in financial
products and are looking for alternative solutions, including
real estate, said Peter Damisch, a partner at Boston Consulting
in Zurich.  Real-estate investments provide a buffer against inflation,
said Frederick Shepperd, managing director of Shepperd Investors
AG, a Kuesnacht, Switzerland-based family office. Investing
directly is the “way to go” because higher costs and fees are
making real-estate funds less attractive, he said.  Baloise , which prefers city apartment blocks of 20 million
to 50 million francs, has about 5.1 billion francs, or 9.4
percent of the Basel-based firm’s total investments, in real
estate. Competition from wealthy private investors and family
offices has increased over the past two years, making it more
difficult for the insurer to meet its target annual return of
4.5 percent, according to Wenk.  “The consequence is that residential real estate has
become more expensive,” he said. “Private investors are now
eating into the bottom end of our ticket sizes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  