-- 
Swiss Stocks Slide as Draghi Says He Didn’t Signal Increased Bond Buying

-- B y   W i l l   H a d f i e l d   a n d   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-12-08T16:56:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/swiss-stocks-climb-amid-speculation-ecb-will-stimulate-lending.html
Swiss stocks dropped the most in two
weeks after the  European Central Bank ’s President  Mario Draghi 
said he didn’t commit to increasing bond purchases of debt-
stricken countries in comments he made last week.  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN)  lost 2.8 percent. Petroplus Holdings
AG,  Europe ’s largest independent refiner, slipped 5 percent as
it lowered its guidance for one of its production sites.  Roche
Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs, added 1.7
percent.  The Swiss Market Index, a measure of the country’s largest
and most actively traded companies, fell 0.5 percent to 5,737.58
at the close in Zurich for the gauge’s biggest drop since Nov.
24. The benchmark measure has still rallied 20 percent since
this year’s low on Aug. 10. The broader Swiss Performance Index
declined 0.7 percent today.  “Most of the ECB response addresses liquidity issues and
aims at easing credit,” said  Manish Singh , the London-based
head of investment at Crossbridge Capital, which has more than
$2 billion under management. “For investors concerned about
sovereign debt, this is not enough. However, it’s positive as
it’s a step in the right direction.”  Draghi said he had not signaled that the ECB would increase
government bond purchases when he spoke in Brussels on Dec. 1.
He told reporters in  Frankfurt  today he was “kind of surprised
by the implicit meaning” that was given to his comments last
week when he said the ECB could follow fiscal union with “other
elements.”  ECB Rate Cut  Swiss stocks (SMI)  briefly advanced as Draghi said that the
central bank will use non-standard measures to help the euro
area’s lenders. Policy makers meeting in Frankfurt lowered the
ECB’s  benchmark interest rate  to 1 percent, matching a record
low, as predicted by 55 of 58 economists in a  Bloomberg News
survey .  Separately, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said that there
is no “big-bang” solution to the debt crisis. Merkel spoke at
the same time as Draghi in Marseille,  France .  The leaders of the 27 European Union countries meet at 7:30
p.m. in Brussels to negotiate the fifth solution to the euro
area’s sovereign-debt crisis in the last 19 months.  Swiss Life lost 2.8 percent to 89.60 Swiss francs after the
company said Carsten Maschmeyer will step down from its board of
directors with immediate effect. He will also cut his equity
stake in the company to less than 3 percent from 5.05 percent
now.  Insurers dropped, with  Baloise Holding AG (BALN)  declining 3.4
percent to 61.90 francs. Zurich Financial Services AG,
Switzerland’s biggest insurer, fell 1.7 percent to 205 francs.  Petroplus Slides  Petroplus Holdings slumped 5 percent to 3.80 francs as the
company reduced its guidance for production at its Coryton oil
refinery in the U.K.  Swatch Group AG, the  world’s largest watchmaker (UHR) , lost 3.1
percent to 345.70 francs and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the
owner of the Cartier brand, fell 2.3 percent to 48.55 francs.  ABB Ltd., the world’s biggest maker of power-transmission
gear, retreated 1.8 percent to 17.10 francs. The company will
invest more than $400 million to double the capacity of its
high-voltage cable factory in Karlskrona,  Sweden .  Health-care companies paced gains, with Roche adding 1.7
percent to 151.30 francs as Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst
Jack Scannell wrote in a note that the efficacy of the company’s
pertuzumab drug was impressive.  Sonova Holding AG (SOON) , the hearing-aid maker, climbed 2.1
percent to 98 francs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Hadfield in London at 
 whadfield@bloomberg.net ;
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  