-- 
Syria Oil Pipeline Attacked, State Blames ‘Terrorist’ Group

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-12-08T13:39:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/syria-oil-pipeline-attacked-state-blames-terrorist-group-1-.html
A pipeline transporting  crude  to a
refinery in  Syria ’s central Homs region was attacked, state-run
Syrian Arab News Agency reported.  “A destructive terrorist group targeted a crude oil
pipeline in Tal Al-Shur, northwest of Homs refinery,” the
agency reported today, without citing anyone. Three officials at
the Syrian Oil Ministry did not wish to comment when contacted
by Bloomberg News.  Al Jazeera television showed footage of a large cloud of
black smoke emanating from a built-up area of the Baba Amr
neighborhood in Homs where it said the pipeline was targeted. It
also showed crowds chanting anti-government slogans at a nearby
funeral of five people killed in the crackdown against
protesters.  Syria has been engulfed in a wave of protests calling for
regime change since the beginning of the year. The government’s
violent response to demonstrations by pro-reform revolts
elsewhere in the  Middle East  has led the U.S. and European Union
to impose additional sanctions against President Bashar al- Assad’s administration. Some sanctions target the Arab country’s
energy industry.’  Energy installations have previously been targeted during
the unrest, mostly in Homs. A pipeline near Homs was targeted on
July 29, interrupting the flow of crude for two days, according
to SANA, which blamed “terrorist” groups.  Syria, which is trying to halt a decline in its crude
production, pumped 2.4 percent less oil in the first nine months
of this year compared with the same period in 2010. The nation
produced 103 million barrels until the end of September,
averaging 378,091 barrels a day, the Oil Ministry said Nov. 22.  The  United Nations  estimated on Dec. 1 that more than 4,000
people have been killed since March when protesters began taking
to the streets inspired by movements that toppled leaders in
Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  