-- 
Syrian Opposition Council Says Assad Can’t Shirk Responsibility for Deaths

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-12-08T13:44:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/syrian-opposition-council-says-assad-can-t-shirk-responsibility-for-deaths.html
Syria ’s opposition said Bashar al- Assad can’t escape responsibility for the killing of protesters
and should quit to spare the country further bloodshed.  The president, who denied in an ABC News interview that he
gave orders for a violent crackdown, “has forgotten that he’s
the commander-in-chief of the armed forces,” said Samir Nashar,
a member of the executive bureau of the Syrian National Council.
“It’s strange that a leader of a nation says he doesn’t know
what’s taking place. If that is the case, then let him step down
and relieve the country and the people.”  Assad told ABC that he doesn’t “own” the country’s
security forces, dismissed  United Nations  estimates that at
least 4,000 people have died since unrest began in March, and
attributed violence against protesters to “mistakes committed
by some officials” rather than a policy of violent repression.  The U.S., European Union and Arab League are applying
increasing economic and political pressure on Assad to end the
crackdown, which risks tipping Syria into a civil war as
soldiers defect and take up arms against the government. There
are increasing reports of attacks against military and
infrastructure targets.  A pipeline carrying crude to a refinery in the central Homs
region, where some of the biggest clashes of recent weeks have
occurred, was attacked today, the state-run Syrian Arab News
Agency reported, saying a terrorist group was responsible.  Al Jazeera television showed footage of a massive cloud of
black smoke in the area. It also showed crowds chanting anti-
government slogans at a nearby funeral of five people killed
during the crackdown.  ‘Not My Forces’  “They are not my forces,” Assad told ABC. “They are
military forces that belong to the government. I don’t own
them.”  The comment suggests Assad is either a “tool” of others
in the regime or he is “completely disconnected” from reality,
said U.S. State Department spokesman Mark Toner. Jihad Makdissi,
a Syrian Foreign Ministry spokesman, said Assad was making no
attempt to absolve himself of any responsibility, and that Toner
had “used the president’s comments out of context.”  There may be truth in Assad’s remarks as he probably has
little sway over elements of the security forces, including
“members of the family who are not necessarily going to listen
to him, and also the old guard left from his father’s day,”
said  Mustafa Alani , director of national security at the Geneva-
based Gulf Research Center.  ‘Dual Military Structure’  “Syria has a dual military structure, those that protect
the regime and those that protect the state, and this is not
under his control,” Alani said in a phone interview. “You
can’t rule out the possibility of civil war” with the two
branches of the security forces on opposing sides, he said.  Assad’s family and many top military officials are members
of the Alawite sect, affiliated with Shia Islam, which is a
minority in Syria and whose privileged status may be at risk
should a change of government create a state dominated by the
Sunni majority.  Nashar accused the government of seeking to enflame
sectarian feelings through violence. In Homs, “there are signs
of a civil war which the regime is encouraging,” he said. “You
have government thugs who are kidnapping and arresting people
from Homs randomly and their corpses appear the next day in
Alawite neighborhoods.”  The UN estimates that tens of thousands have been arrested
since the start of the protests, inspired by movements that
toppled leaders in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya , while more than
14,000 are reported to remain in detention.  International Sanctions  The  Arab League  said this week that it will maintain
economic sanctions on Syria, rebuffing a demand by Assad’s
government to remove the measures as one of several conditions
for admitting Arab monitors. The U.S. and European Union have
also imposed sanctions. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  met
with the Syrian National Council in Geneva on Dec. 6.  Assad told ABC that he’s not concerned by sanctions, which
he said haven’t isolated Syria. He asked for the UN to send
“concrete evidence” to support allegations that Syria has
committed  war crimes , which he called a “distortion of
reality.”  The question of Assad’s personal role in the Syrian
decision-making system is less important than that system’s use
of “a level of brutality that is unacceptable for the whole
world,” said Rami Khouri, director of the Issam Fares Institute
for Public Policy and International Affairs at the American
University of  Beirut .  “The government in Syria has not really come to grips with
this rebellion in a very effective way,” he said. “That’s why
they’re in such a corner now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  