-- 
U.K. Banks Cut $15.2 Billion in Southern European Sovereign Debt

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-12-08T19:58:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/u-k-banks-cut-15-2-billion-in-southern-european-sovereign-debt.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  cut $15.2 billion of
investments in Greek, Italian, Irish, Portuguese and Spanish
sovereign debt as investors punished companies with large
holdings.  RBS reduced 1.22 billion euros ($1.63 billion) of the debt
during the nine months through Sept. 30, while HSBC cut 3.06
billion euros, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and based
upon statements the lenders released today. Barclays sold down
6.06 billion pounds ($9.47 billion) of debt.  The three lenders and Lloyds Banking Group Plc don’t need
to raise capital to absorb losses from euro-area bonds,
according to the European Banking Authority. The EBA estimated
banks in the region would need 114.7 billion euros to meet
 capital requirements , following the updated stress tests, the
financial regulator said today in a document obtained by
Bloomberg News.  The EBA estimated two months ago that the region’s
financial institutions needed 106 billion euros to reach the 9
percent core Tier 1 capital goal by mid-2012 after marking their
sovereign bonds to match market prices. European leaders are
demanding the region’s banks bolster capital to withstand
writedowns after they agreed to take losses on Greek bonds.  “The backdrop has worsened, therefore, banks in the
interim have decided to lower their sovereign holdings and some
have raised equity, so they’ve reacted,” said Matthew Czepliewicz, a banking analyst at Collins Stewart Hawkpoint Plc
in  London . Yet the amount of fresh capital required by European
banks hasn’t changed much, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  