-- 
U.K. Antitrust Regulator Seeks Wider Private Health-Care Probe

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 
2011-12-08T14:44:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/u-k-antitrust-regulator-seeks-wider-private-health-care-probe.html
The U.K.’s initial regulator of
antitrust issues plans to refer the private health-care market
to the  Competition Commission  for further investigation of
potential restrictions of the industry by dominant players.  Patients, general practitioners and health insurance
providers lack access to information on quality and costs of
private health-care services, the  Office of Fair Trading  said in
a statement today. The limited number of private providers and
insurers in the industry hold market power that hampers
competitors from entering, it said.  “These significant concerns merit a more in-depth
investigation by the Competition Commission,” OFT Chief
Executive Officer  John Fingleton  said in the statement. “It is
important that patient demand and choice are able to drive
competition and innovation in this market.”  The U.K.’s state-owned  National Health Service  dominates
the country’s medical market.  Circle Holdings Ltd. , a London-
based private-hospital operating partnership, said today that it
filed an antitrust complaint in September 2010 regarding ties
between private providers and insurers that prompted the OFT’s
study.  “Today’s decision will have a profound effect on U.K.
health care, unleashing entrepreneurialism and unlocking
innovation,” Circle CEO Ali Parsa said in the statement.  The OFT performs initial studies of antitrust questions in
proposed takeovers as well as market-dominance issues. The
 Competition Commission  has the power to block transactions or
order a halt to anti-competitive practices. The U.K. plans to
merge the two regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in london at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  