-- 
U.S. Citizen Jailed for 2 1/2 Years for Insulting Thailand’s King Bhumibol

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-12-08T03:43:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/u-s-citizen-jailed-for-2-1-2-years-for-insulting-thailand-s-king-bhumibol.html
A U.S. citizen will serve two and a
half years in a Thai prison for translating an unauthorized
biography of  King Bhumibol Adulyadej  and posting it on a
website, according to a court ruling.  Joe Wichai Commart Gordon, who was born in  Thailand ,
pleaded guilty on Oct. 10 to using a pen name to translate The
King Never Smiles, a biography written by Paul M. Handley in
2006 and published by  Yale University Press . Gordon has been
detained since his arrest in May. The Criminal Court sentenced
Gordon to five years in prison, and cut the penalty two and a
half years because of his guilty plea, according to the ruling.  The conviction comes amid a surge in the number of cases
alleging insults against the Thai royal family in recent years,
sparking a debate over the law’s usefulness.  King Bhumibol , who
took the throne in 1946 and has his picture hung in the majority
of Thai homes out of reverence, turned 84 on Dec. 5.  “Many Thais try to protect him, try to defend him, but in
actual fact, the consequence is we ourselves are doing a lot of
damage to the monarchy, or even the king himself,” former Prime
Minister Anand Panyarachun told reporters on Nov. 29 during the
launch of a different book about the king’s life. “The
harshness of penalties should be reviewed.”  Thailand’s  constitution  says the king “shall be enthroned
in a position of revered worship and shall not be violated.”
The lese-majeste law makes it a criminal offense to defame,
insult or threaten the king, queen, heir apparent or regent.
Offenders face as many as 15 years in prison per charge.  Text Messages   Two weeks ago, a retired truck driver was sentenced to 20
years in prison for sending four text messages that defamed
Queen Sirikit, one of the longest jail terms given under laws
protecting the royal family. The European Union delegation in
Thailand said it was “deeply concerned” about the sentence and
urged Thai authorities to uphold freedom of expression.  Since 2005, a year before former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra  was ousted in a coup, the number of lese-majeste
cases before the lower courts has increased 15 times to 478 last
year, according to statistics compiled by David Streckfuss, an
academic based in northeast Thailand.  The military cited Thaksin’s disrespect of King Bhumibol as
one of the reasons it overthrew him. Prime Minister Yingluck
Shinawatra, Thaksin’s sister, took power on Aug. 9 after her
Pheu Thai party won a majority in July elections.  ‘Disappointed’  Gordon, 54 years old at the time of his arrest, lived for
more than 30 years in  Colorado , according to  Prachatai , a
Thailand-based news website. He was arrested on May 24 at his
house in northeastern Thailand, where he was born, it said.  The U.S. said it was “disappointed” when prosecutors
filed lese-majeste charges against Gordon, who is also charged
under Thailand’s Computer Crimes Act.  “We have discussed Mr. Gordon’s case extensively with Thai
authorities, stressing at every possible opportunity his rights
as an American citizen,” the U.S. Embassy in Bangkok said in an
Aug. 19  statement . “We urge the Thai authorities to ensure
freedom of expression is respected and that Mr. Gordon, a U.S.
citizen, receives fair treatment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  