-- 
U.S. Wholesale Inventories Rose More Than Forecast in October

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-12-08T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/u-s-wholesale-inventories-climbed-1-6-in-october-ahead-of-holiday-season.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers rose
in October by the most in five months as distributors moved to
bring stockpiles in line with demand.  The 1.6 percent increase in  inventories  followed no change
in September, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . Economists projected a 0.3 percent gain in
stockpiles, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. Sales climbed 0.9 percent in October.  As demand outpaced stockpiling last quarter, business
inventories were drawn down, reducing the pace of economic
expansion that period. The October increase shows retailers may
have imported more merchandise ahead of the  holiday shopping
season .  “Inventories took off quite a lot from third quarter
growth, because businesses were actually surprised by the
strength of demand,”  Paul Dales , senior U.S. economist at
 Capital Economics  in  London , said before the report. “If demand
stays the same, then they will probably rebuild inventories in
the fourth quarter, which is pretty much what we expect is
happening at the moment.”  The median projection for wholesale inventories was based on
a survey of 30 economists whose estimates ranged from no change
to an increase 0.9 percent. The September reading was revised
from a previously reported 0.1 percent decrease.  Wholesalers’ stockpiles of durable goods, or those meant to
last several years, increased 0.8 percent in October, led by
automobiles, electrical equipment and metals, today’s report
showed.  Non-Durables  The value of unsold non-durable goods inventories increased
2.8 percent, the most since October 2010, as purchases climbed
1.7 percent. Stockpiles of farm products and petroleum rebounded
from declines a month earlier.  At the current sales pace, wholesalers had  enough goods  on
hand to last 1.16 months in October from 1.15 months in
September.  Gross domestic product climbed at a 2 percent annual rate
from July through September, Commerce Department figures showed
last month. Inventories were cut at an $8.5 billion annual rate,
subtracting 1.6 percentage points from growth. It was the first
time stockpiles were trimmed since the last three months of 2009.  Fewer inventories put producers on track to boost output
heading into the final three months of 2011.  “Destocking has been occurring ever since about the middle
of 2011,”  William H. Weideman, chief financial officer at  Dow
Chemical Co. (DOW) , said during a Dec. 6 investor conference. “We
actually feel inventories are quite low.”  Wholesalers make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles.  Factory inventories , which comprise about 38 percent
of the total, grew 0.9 percent in October, the Commerce
Department said Dec. 5. Retail stockpiles, which make up the
rest, will be included in the Dec. 13  business inventories 
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  