-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Dec. 6 (Text)

-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 
2011-12-08T13:31:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-dec-6-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  Weekly Weather Summary: As the week commenced, a strong storm
system in the Northeast quickly departed, bringing tranquil
weather to the East and Southeast for the remainder of the week.
In the Southwest, however, an upper-air low developed and
intensified, generating strong winds in the Southwest,
especially southern California, and gradually spreading
precipitation and colder air into the Four Corner States. Parts
of Arizona,  New Mexico , and southern  Colorado  received between 1
and 2.5 inches of precipitation. As this system tracked eastward
into the Nation’s midsection over the weekend, moderate to heavy
precipitation (more than 2 inches) fell from central Texas
northeastward into the eastern Great Lakes by Tuesday morning.
Heavy rains (more than 4 inches) were reported in parts of
northeastern Texas, northwestern  Louisiana , southern and eastern
Arkansas, western sections of  Tennessee  and Kentucky, and
southeastern  Missouri . A second band of light to moderate
precipitation (1 to 2 inches) occurred from central Kansas
northeastward into southern  Wisconsin . In contrast, little or no
precipitation fell on the West, northern Plains and upper
Midwest, and Southeast (from southeastern Louisiana eastward to
the Carolinas). Temperatures averaged below normal in the
western half of the Nation and in the Southeast, while milder
weather was limited to the Northeast,  Great Lakes  region, and
northern Plains.  Southeast:  After last week’s beneficial (and torrential in some
areas) precipitation in most of the Southeast, much drier
weather returned to southern and eastern sections. Heavy rains,
however, were not absent from the South as western and northern
Louisiana, Arkansas, northwestern Mississippi, and western
Tennessee received 2 to 4 inches of rain, with local totals to 6
inches. Short-term deficits (30- and 60-days) were effectively
eased or erased in western Louisiana and southern Arkansas, but
medium (6 to 12 months) to long-term (more than a year)
departures still remained (20 to 30 inches). As a result, a 1-
category improvement was made to the D4 area on the Louisiana
and  Texas  border where 6-month and year-to-date deficits were
noticeably less than surrounding areas. In contrast, the SPI
blend indicated that D4 still remained in this region.
Elsewhere, D0 to D3 1-category improvements were made further
north were recent conditions have been wetter, this week’s
precipitation totals were greater (3 to 5.5 inches), and long-
term deficits were smaller. In northwestern Alabama, another
week with light to moderate precipitation (0.7 to 1.5 inches)
effectively alleviated the D0(S). At 12-months, a large
precipitation anomaly gradient existed between northern Arkansas
(20 inch surplus) and northwestern Louisiana (20 inch deficit).  In contrast, much different weather prevailed to the east as
locations from southeastern Louisiana to  Florida  and northward
into the Carolinas saw little or no rain. In southeastern
Louisiana, southern Mississippi and Alabama, and parts of
southern Georgia and the Florida Panhandle, 60 and 90-day
precipitation has been less than half of normal, with
accumulated shortages of 5 to 10 inches. Many USGS averaged
stream flows at 7-, 14-, and 28-days were below the tenth
percentile as of Dec. 6. With this information, D0 and D1 was
expanded slightly northward, and D2 spread into southeastern
Louisiana. Some slight expansion of dryness and drought was made
in counties (Wakulla, Jefferson, Taylor) near Tallahassee, FL,
which is flirting with its driest year on record (since 1893),
and in northeastern Florida (Alachua County) where short-term
(and long-term) deficits are accumulating and affect prairie
wildlife. Farther north, growing short-term (out to 90-days)
precipitation deficiencies called for expansion of D0(SL) into
the central and southern Coastal Plains of  North Carolina .  Southern and Central Plains:  Widespread welcome precipitation
fell across much of Texas,  Oklahoma , and Kansas as the recent
bouts of precipitation (since mid-September) have greatly eased
or eliminated short-term deficiencies. Unfortunately, long-term
deficits remained, especially after the driest 12 months on
record (Oct 2010-Sep 2011) in Texas and near-record 12-month
dryness in surrounding states (OK, LA, NM) that was exacerbated
by the record summer heat, which will take time and continued
surplus precipitation for major improvement. Nevertheless, 2 to
4 inches of rain from central Texas northeastward into
southeastern Oklahoma, plus 1 to 2 inches in parts of northern
Texas, southern Oklahoma, and central and northern Kansas, were
enough to make a dent in some of the severe, extreme, and
exception drought areas. In addition, 0.5 to 1 inches in the
Texas Panhandle and the remainder of Oklahoma and Kansas also
brought some modest improvements. But not all areas of Texas saw
relief from the rains. For example, although parts of central
and eastern Texas received between 1.5 and 3 inches of rain, SPI
blends, long-term deficits (at 18-months, 25 to 35 inches), and
soil moisture values still at D4 levels, and conditions were
kept status-quo there. Farther north, where recent conditions
have been better and long-term shortages were not as great as
further south, the light to moderate precipitation (1 to 2
inches) provided a general 1-category improvement in most of
Kansas. In western, southwestern, and southern Texas, the
precipitation was light enough (less than 0.5 inches) to prevent
deterioration, but not large enough for improvement.  Midwest and Northern Plains: For the second week in a row, light
to moderate precipitation (1 to 2 inches) fell on southern and
eastern sections of the Midwest, except this week’s 1 to 2 inch
amounts were shifted a bit farther to the north and west. This
allowed for improvement of short-term D0 and D1 areas in
northern Missouri, southwestern, southeastern, and extreme
northeastern  Iowa , and southeastern  Nebraska . The recent wet
spell has eliminated precipitation shortages out to 90-days
(where D0 was erased), and greatly diminished short-term
deficits where the remaining D0 and D1 were.  In contrast, weekly totals sharply dropped off to the north and
west, and little or no precipitation was observed in the
Dakotas, most of  Minnesota , northeastern Nebraska, and extreme
northwestern Iowa. Although fall and winter normal are generally
low in the northern Plains and upper Midwest, an extremely dry
autumn and early December called for an expansion of D1 into
areas with 25 to 50 percent of normal precipitation during the
past 90 days (e.g. east-central and northwestern Minnesota).
Elsewhere, no changes were made.  The Southwest: Early in the period, a strong upper-air low
developed and intensified across the region. The low initially
brought strong winds to parts of the region, including  Santa Ana 
winds gusting to near 100 mph in southern  California . Later, the
storm generated widespread light to moderate precipitation (0.3
to 1.5 inches), enough to prevent deterioration but not enough
to improve conditions (e.g. status quo). Some exceptions to this
were in central Arizona (up to 2.6 inches) where 90- and 180-day
deficits were close to zero (D1 to D0), in southwestern New
Mexico (two straight weeks of 0.5 to 1.5 inches of
precipitation) where small surpluses existed out to 180-days (D3
to D2), and in northwestern New Mexico (0.5 to 1 inches this
week, 0.2 to 0.5 inches last week) where the Water Year SNOTEL
Snow Water Content (SWC) stood at 124 percent of normal in the
Rio Chama Basin. So far this water year, the mountain basins in
central  Arizona  and northern New Mexico have observed above
normal basin average precipitation and SWC. Accordingly, a
general one-category improvement was made on the D0 to D2 areas.  The Northwest:  In stark contrast to last week’s moderate to
heavy precipitation from the Cascades westward, much quieter and
cooler weather prevailed across the Northwest this week.
Although it is still early in the water year (since October 1),
precipitation has averaged about half to two-thirds of normal in
the SNOTEL mountain basins of Oregon, California, and Nevada,
according to the USDA/NRCS. And in the Intermountain West,
precipitation has been even more spotty and minimal. During the
past 90- and 180-days, 25 to 50 percent of normal precipitation,
and in some locations 10 to 25 percent, have fallen, and these
D0 “watch” areas were expanded to include northeastern
California, northwestern Nevada, and south-central  Washington .
Fortunately, normal are generally low in this region thus
generating relatively small deficits. Precipitation, however,
will be needed soon during the normally wet winter months to
prevent degradation of conditions.  Hawaii: Early in the period (Tuesday through Friday), scattered
light showers (daily totals between 0.25 to an inch, locally 1
to 3 inches) occurred mainly on the windward side of the islands
while little or no rain fell on the leeward locations. By the
weekend, shower activity greatly diminished across all of
Hawaii, with most stations reporting no rain the rest of the
week. On Oahu, subnormal November rainfall over the Koolau Range
resulted in the spreading of D0 there. On the Big Island, spotty
leeward November rainfall in the upper elevations of South
Kohala and in the Pohakuloa region of the Hamakua District led
to USDA/FSA reports of conditions similar to 2010 (bad).
Ranchers have been destocking pastures and selling replacement
heifers which will have long-term effects. Accordingly, D3(S)
was extended southwestward from the northwestern portion into
the central part of the island.  In contrast, some pasture regrowth occurred from Kepuni to Kaupo
on southeast Maui from early November rains, but missed the
southwestern section. As a result, D3(S) became D2(S) in
southeastern Maui. On the Big Island, over 20 inches of rain in
November on the east-facing slopes alleviated D0 there. There
were no changes made for Kauai, Molokai, and Lanai.  Looking Ahead:   For the ensuing 5 days (December 8-12), a storm
system will track off the East Coast by late Thursday, bringing
moderate to heavy precipitation to the mid-Atlantic and  New
England , with snow possible in parts of the central and northern
Appalachians. Once this system departs, much quieter and colder
weather will envelop the lower 48 States. The exceptions to this
include light to moderate rain in southern Texas and most of
Florida, especially the Atlantic side. A weak clipper system may
bring light precipitation from the northern Rockies to the lower
Great Lakes region, and a cold front will approach the West
Coast late in the period.  The CPC 6-10 day outlook (December 13-17) indicates enhanced
odds for above-normal precipitation in the lower and middle
Mississippi, Tennessee, and Ohio Valleys, Great Lakes region,
and  Alaska . Subnormal precipitation is favored from the central
Pacific Coast and Great Basin eastward into the northern and
central Plains, and in Florida. Temperatures are expected to
average below normal in the western third of the U.S. and above-
normal in Alaska and the eastern third of the Nation.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  