-- 
Fed Agrees With Citi on $3.7 Trillion Estimate

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-12-08T20:44:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/u-s-municipal-bond-market-28-larger-than-estimated-federal-reserve-says.html
The U.S. municipal-bond market is 28
percent larger than reported in June, according to a quarterly
Federal Reserve release, which used new data showing individuals
own more state and local-government debt.  The face value of outstanding municipal bonds was $3.7
trillion at the end of September, based on figures from Mergent
Inc., a private data vendor, compared with the previous figure
of $2.9 trillion at the end of June, the Fed said.  “The estimate of household holdings of municipal
securities and loans is revised up by about $840 billion, on
average, from 2004 forward,” according to the Fed’s Flow of
Funds Accounts report for the third quarter.  Citigroup Inc., using analysis of bond data, said in June
that the central bank was underestimating the size of the local-
government market, largely by failing to capture the amount of
debt bought by individuals.  The bank estimated that the market was about $3.7 trillion.
A Citigroup analyst, Vikram Rai, said the larger ownership by
individuals may help explain volatility in tax-free securities
amid concern about defaults by state and local governments, a
risk that professional investors saw as more limited.  Fund Withdrawals  Investors pulled more than $30 billion from municipal-bond
mutual funds from November 2010 to June, according to data from
Lipper US Fund Flows. Lingering strains from the recession
fueled speculation that defaults would jump, while banking
analyst  Meredith Whitney  last year predicted “hundreds of
billions of dollars” of municipal defaults.  Rai, a bond analyst in New York, said individual buyers
were spooked by Whitney’s forecast. In most cases, they help
insulate the municipal segment from volatility seen in other
markets where short-term investors operate, he said.  “They’re more prone to negative headlines,” he said in an
interview today. “In most circumstances, it will be a big plus
that households have a large role to play.”  The tally of municipal debt held directly by households is
now $1.9 trillion, up from $1.07 trillion in the prior report,
Fed data show. That doesn’t count bonds owned indirectly, such
as through mutual funds, which hold about $528 billion.  Analysts track the Fed figures to monitor changes in
holdings by institutions such as insurance companies or mutual
funds.  The amount of public U.S. Treasury debt is  $9.87 trillion 
as of Nov. 30, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net  