-- 
U.S. Virtual Tehran Embassy Won’t Overcome Hostility, Iran Says

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-12-08T09:33:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/u-s-virtual-tehran-embassy-won-t-overcome-hostility-iran-says.html
A new U.S. State Department website
for Iranians, which Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has
described as a “virtual Tehran embassy,” won’t make up for
decades of hostility toward Iran, the Foreign Ministry said.  “This initiative by the American government is in fact an
admission of its mistake in cutting relations between the two
nations and turning its back on Iranians,” ministry spokesman
 Ramin Mehmanparast  said, according to the state-run  Mehr  news
agency. “This action will not make up for the mistake and won’t
convey the message of the U.S. to Iranians.”  The Iranian government blocked the site, which is designed
to give Iranians basic information on visiting the U.S., within
hours of its debut, State Department spokesman Mark Toner said
yesterday.  Iran’s decades-old suspicion of the U.S. has been
intensified by the growing pressure over its nuclear program,
which the U.S. and its main allies accuse of being a cover for
the development of nuclear weapons.  Iran  rejects the claim and
says the program is purely civilian. The U.S. has spearheaded
efforts to impose stricter punitive measures against Iran,
adding to four rounds of United Nations sanctions.  The U.S. and Iran haven’t had diplomatic relations for more
than three decades. After the 1979 revolution that ousted the
pro-western Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi and brought Shiite Muslim
clerics to power, students seized the U.S. Embassy in Tehran and
held 52 diplomats hostage for 444 days, leading the U.S. to
sever ties.  Iranian officials say the move was the result of American
interventions in its domestic affairs, including the overthrow
of Prime Minister Mohammed Mossadegh in 1953.  Hamas Support  Iran also condemns the U.S. for supporting  Israel , a state
it doesn’t recognize and portrays as the source of tensions in
the  Middle East . The Persian Gulf country backs the Palestinian
Hamas and Lebanese Hezbollah, militant groups deemed terrorist
organizations by the U.S. and Israel.  The U.S. launched the website on Dec. 6 “to support a more
direct and robust engagement between us and the people of
Iran,” said Wendy Sherman, undersecretary of state for
political affairs, at a briefing on that day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  