-- 
U.S. Undersecretary Says Troop Deployment to Australia Not Aimed at China

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-08T04:57:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/u-s-says-australia-troop-plan-not-aimed-at-china-correct-.html
The U.S. decision to deploy Marines
to  Australia  was not aimed at China and was meant to strengthen
a longstanding alliance, U.S. Undersecretary of Defense Michele
Flournoy told reporters in Beijing after meeting with Chinese
army Deputy Chief of Staff Ma Xiaotian yesterday.  “We assured General Ma and his delegation that the U.S.
does not seek to contain China, we do not view China as an
adversary,” Flournoy said today. “These posture changes were
first and foremost about strengthening our alliance with
Australia.”  The Marine deployment, announced by President  Barack Obama 
during a trip to Australia last month, will anchor an American
presence in the western Pacific to safeguard shipping lanes. The
move is part of Obama’s effort to refocus  U.S. foreign policy  on
an area that accounts for half of the global economy.  The talks between the two militaries were the first since
the U.S. announced a $5.3 billion weapons sale to  Taiwan  in
September. A $6.4 billion U.S. arms sale to Taiwan in early 2010
prompted China to say it would suspend military-to-military
talks.  The U.S. government is obligated by a 1979 law to provide
weapons to Taiwan for its defense. The island has been ruled
separately from the mainland since 1949.  Exercises Postponed  Following the September sale, China postponed planned joint
anti-piracy exercises with the U.S. and a visit to China by
Admiral Robert Willard, the head of the U.S. Pacific Command,
Flournoy said. The U.S. and China were now making plans to hold
joint anti-piracy and humanitarian assistance exercises next
year, Flournoy said.  According to the U.S.-Australia defense accord, Marines
will be stationed in northern Australia beginning next year. The
troops will be deployed on a six-month rotation, starting with
250 personnel and eventually expanding to as many as 2,500.  The talks with Ma and his delegation were “very candid,”
Flournoy said, declining to characterize the Chinese reaction to
issues such as the Australian troop deployment, Taiwan arms
sales and territorial disputes in the  South China Sea  where she
said there was “no new ground broken.” Other topics discussed
included the North Korean nuclear program and pro-democracy
movements in Arab nations, she said.  Ma was reported by the official Xinhua News Agency as
saying that “the fact that the consultations took place as
scheduled shows that both countries are sincere about
maintaining military exchanges.”  Carrier Program  On China’s aircraft carrier program, Flournoy said that
“in many ways it is a logical outgrowth of China’s overall
military development.”  China’s first aircraft carrier, built from an unfinished
Soviet-era ship acquired from the Ukraine, set sail for a second
set of sea trials last month, China’s defense ministry said in a
statement on Nov. 29.  China ’s defense spending has quadrupled in the past decade
and it announced in March that it plans to spend $91.5 billion
on defense this year. For fiscal year 2012, the Pentagon
requested $553 billion for yearly operations and $118 billion
for war operations. The U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee cut
a total of $27 billion from that request.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  