-- 
U.S. Seeks WTO Panel Over China’s Duties on Broiler Chickens

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-12-08T18:30:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/u-s-seeks-wto-panel-over-china-s-duties-on-broiler-chickens.html
The U.S. Trade Representative asked
the  World Trade Organization  to establish a panel that will seek
a settlement in a conflict with China over duties on American
poultry.  China failed to follow proper WTO procedures before
imposing the duties, the trade office said today in an e-mailed
statement. Consultations, the first step in the case, ended in
October without resolving the dispute.  “The  United States  will not stand idly by while China
appears to have misused its trade remedy laws and put American
jobs at risk,” Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said today in the
 statement . “We are serious about holding China accountable to
its WTO commitments and ensuring that there is a level playing
field for American businesses -- including our farmers.”  China  set a duty of as much as 105.4 percent last year on
U.S. broiler-chicken products. About 300,000 workers and farmers
have been hurt by China’s actions, Kirk said in a Sept. 21 news
conference.  China said in September its duties on U.S. poultry are “in
line” with WTO rules after the U.S. filed a complaint with the
trade arbiter about the Chinese taxes, according to a  statement 
from the Ministry of Commerce. China imposed the duties in
August and September 2010, claiming U.S. products were being
sold in China at less than market value.  The chicken-import dispute may add to tensions between the
world’s two largest economies, which have clashed over access to
each others’ markets for products including steel pipes, tires,
movies and music. The WTO rejected in September China’s appeal
of a ruling that backed U.S. duties on Chinese tire imports, a
move Chinese officials said would distort bilateral trade and
won’t benefit American industries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  