-- 
U.S. Highway Deaths Decline for a Fifth Year, Longest Streak Since 1899

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-12-08T19:22:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/u-s-highway-deaths-decline-2-9-falling-for-fifth-year-1-.html
The number of people killed on U.S.
highways fell for the fifth consecutive year in 2010, marking
the longest streak of declines since records began in 1899.  Fatalities dropped 2.9 percent to 32,885, the lowest since
1949, the Washington-based  National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration  said today in an e-mailed statement. Deaths of
motorcyclists, pedestrians and large-truck occupants increased.  “While we should be encouraged by our successes, we are
not going to rest on our laurels, and we are not going to be
lulled into complacency,” U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood told reporters today in  Washington .  LaHood, who has made distracted driving his signature
cause, said safer cars and roadways, along with drivers who are
more likely to buckle in and less likely to drink and drive,
contributed to the decrease.  The U.S. government has kept data on motor-vehicle deaths
since 1899, the year  Henry Ford  helped found  Detroit Automobile
Co.  Twenty-six people are recorded as having died in crashes
that year, according to the Transportation Department. The U.S.
has tracked vehicle registrations since 1900, when there were
8,000. In 2009, the most recent year available, there were about
252 million motor vehicles registered, according to the  Federal
Highway Administration .  Better awareness of driving while intoxicated, increased
use of designated drivers and better  law enforcement  contributed
to the 4.9 percent decline in alcohol-related driving deaths,
LaHood said.  Federal Aviation Administrator  Randy Babbitt  resigned Dec.
6 after being arrested for drunk driving. The FAA is part of the
Transportation Department.  Texting While Driving  The agency changed the way U.S. regulators tally
distracted-driving crashes. Previously, just having a phone in
the car could result in an accident being categorized as
affected by distracted driving. With the new method, the
accident is so categorized after behavior such as talking on a
mobile phone or sending  text messages  is cited as having
contributed to a crash.  Using the new measure, 3,092 deaths, or 9.4 percent, of
2010 road fatalities were related to driver distraction.  The number of people injured in traffic crashes rose 0.9
percent to 2.24 million.  The fatality rate, or the number of people killed per 100
million vehicle miles traveled, fell to 1.1 last year from 1.15
in 2009.  Truck Deaths Rise  In contrast to the overall decline in traffic deaths,
commercial truck-related fatalities, including people in cars
struck by big rigs, rose 8.7 percent to 3,675, the agency said.
That’s the first increase since 2004. The number of trucker
deaths rose 6 percent to 529.  The increase may be related to more truck traffic as the
 U.S. economy  improved, National Highway Traffic Safety
Administrator  David Strickland  told reporters.  The report was released as the White House conducts a final
review on a $1 billion proposed regulation to decrease the
number of permissible daily truck-driving hours to 10 from 11.
Trucking-industry groups have argued that the change is
unnecessary as fatalities have been declining.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  