-- 
Blagojevich, UBS, Goldman, HSBC, BP, Aetna in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-12-08T12:28:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/ubs-goldman-hsbc-aetna-citic-pacific-f-1-in-court-news.html
Former  Illinois  Governor Rod
Blagojevich’s 14-year prison sentence should send the message
that the public and judges are fed up with the state’s history
of corruption, said the U.S. Attorney who prosecuted the case.  Prosecutors had asked James B. Zagel in  Chicago  to lock up
Blagojevich for 15 to 20 years, arguing it would deter future
wrongdoing in a state where four of the nine most recent
governors have been convicted for crimes committed before,
during or after they held office. The twice-elected Democrat’s
predecessor, Republican George Ryan, is serving a 6 1/2 year
federal prison sentence after being convicted by a jury in the
same courthouse in 2006.  “It is profoundly sad that we are here for the second time
in five years to discuss the conviction and sentencing of a
governor of Illinois,” U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald said at
a press conference yesterday after Zagel sentenced Blagojevich.
“This has to stop. To put it very, very simply: we don’t want
to be back here again.”  Blagojevich’s case began three years ago and featured two
separate trials over allegations that he sought to trade
official acts for campaign cash and other favors, including his
attempted sale of the U.S. Senate seat Barack Obama gave up when
he was elected president.  Blagojevich led the fifth-most populous American state from
January 2003 until his impeachment and removal from office in
January 2009. He was arrested a month earlier for what Chicago
Fitzgerald then called “a political corruption crime spree.”  The ex-governor, 54, was found guilty on 17 counts in a
trial that ended in June. A previous jury had deadlocked on 23
of the 24 counts it considered, finding the ex-governor guilty
of lying to federal agents. Prosecutors dropped three counts
before the retrial.  “I accept the people’s verdict,” Blagojevich told the
judge before he was sentenced. “They’ve found me guilty. All I
can say is I’ve never wanted to hurt anyone.”  Attorneys for Blagojevich argued for leniency and mercy,
telling the judge it would be unfair to make their client pay
for the acts of those who came before him.  In court yesterday, Blagojevich choked with emotion as he
made a 20-minute statement and apologized to “the people of
Illinois,” and to his family.  The case is U.S. v. Blagojevich, 08-cr-888, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  For more, click here.  New Suits  Ex-UBS Client Zavieh Indicted for Hiding Accounts From IRS  A former  UBS AG (UBSN)  client, Amir Zavieh, was indicted by a
federal grand jury on a charge that he defrauded the U.S. by
hiding assets from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.  Zavieh, a San Francisco resident, conspired with five
others, according to an indictment in Fort Lauderdale,  Florida .
They included former UBS bankers Renzo Gadola, who was sentenced
last month to five years probation, and Martin Lack, who was
indicted Aug. 2 and is considered a fugitive.  Zavieh opened an undeclared account with UBS in 1989 and
transferred it in 2008 to a smaller Swiss cantonal bank after
Gadola said his records could be given to the IRS, according to
an indictment returned Dec. 6 and filed with the court
yesterday. UBS, the largest Swiss bank, handed over more than
4,700 secret accounts in 2009 to resolve U.S. criminal and civil
cases.  “At some point IF they come after me, I will fight it
tooth and nail,” Zavieh said in a June 2010 e-mail to Gadola
quoted in the indictment. “What is also interesting or perhaps
appalling is that the laws of a country and perhaps its
tradition is being broken to save a bank’s ass for selling out
its own clients who have been trusting and feeding them for
years!”  Zavieh’s attorney, Robert Bockelman, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the indictment.  The case is USA v. Zavieh, 11-cr-60287, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  For more, click here.  Rajat Gupta Lawsuit Dismissal Opposed by Goldman Investor  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  investor James Mercer, in a
lawsuit against former board member Rajat Gupta in which the
bank is a “nominal plaintiff,” filed court papers opposing a
motion by the defendant to dismiss the case.  In the lawsuit, Mercer alleged Gupta disclosed confidential
bank information to Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam,
the hedge-fund manager who was later convicted of insider
trading. Gupta has been charged by federal prosecutors in
connection with the Rajaratnam probe.  “Gupta did not provide confidential information about the
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to Raj Rajaratnam without purpose,”
Mercer said in the filing yesterday in Manhattan federal court.
“He did it for pecuniary gain.”  Gary Naftalis , Gupta’s lawyer, declined to comment on the
filing.  In March, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
started administrative proceedings against Gupta over claims of
securities fraud. Mercer sued in June, seeking to recover short-
swing profits generated by Galleon trades in Goldman Sachs
stock. Short-swing profits are profits made by an insider on the
purchase and sale, within six months, of company stock.  Mercer claimed that Gupta, who as a Goldman Sachs director
is considered a company insider, should be deemed the legal
beneficiary of the Galleon trades. Gupta was alleged by the SEC
to have given Rajaratnam tips about Goldman Sachs’s quarterly
financial results before they were made public.  In seeking to dismiss Mercer’s suit in November, Gupta
said, “the complaint’s allegations are all about tipping and
not about trading by Mr. Gupta. The complaint fails to allege a
purchase or sale by Mr. Gupta of even a single share of Goldman
Sachs stock.”  Mercer countered yesterday that Gupta, by owning Goldman
Sachs shares, benefited from Rajaratnam’s trades.  Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, didn’t return a call seeking comment on the filing.  Rajaratnam was convicted on insider-trading charges and is
serving an 11-year prison sentence in Ayer,  Massachusetts .  The case is Mercer v. Gupta, 11-3828, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  HSBC Sued Over Alleged False Submissions to Court in  Hong Kong   HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  was sued by a Hong Kong businessman who
alleged the bank made false representations to the city’s Court
of Appeal to win a decision over the sale of a commercial
property in 1987.  HSBC made false submissions to the court to wrongfully
procure a judgment, Gurdas Choithramani said in a writ filed
yesterday. Gurdas said at a press conference that he is seeking
damages for losses in the “hundreds of millions of dollars.”  Esquire Electronics Ltd., the now defunct company owned by
Gurdas and his brother, lost an attempt in 2007 to appeal a
 ruling  that HSBC didn’t breach its duty or employ economic
duress and undue influence in requiring Esquire to sell a
commercial building in Hong Kong’s Kowloon district.  Gareth Hewett, a spokesman for HSBC in Hong Kong, said the
bank will vigorously defend the case and declined to comment
further.  Gurdas didn’t take any questions at the press conference.  The case is Gurdas S Choithramani and The Hongkong and
Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd., HCA2073/2011, Hong Kong Court
of First Instance.  Michigan  Blue Cross Accused by Aetna of Hospital Rate Scheme  Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan, the state’s biggest
health insurer, was sued by  Aetna Inc. (AET)  over an alleged
anticompetitive scheme that forces rivals to pay more for
hospital services.  “Stated simply, Blue Cross has entered into exclusionary
contracts with hospitals under which it agreed to pay hospitals
more money if the hospitals increased the rates they demanded to
treat patients covered by its competitors’ health plans,” Aetna
said in a complaint filed Dec. 6 in federal court in Detroit.  Aetna said that, starting in 2005, it made an “enormous”
investment to expand its business in Michigan, including
acquiring HMS Healthcare for about $390 million. Hartford,
Connecticut-based Aetna accuses Blue Cross Blue Shield of
Michigan of violating U.S. antitrust law and it seeks three
times the amount of damages it sustained.  Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan in August lost a bid to
dismiss a joint U.S.-state lawsuit accusing it of driving up
competitors’ costs through preferential pricing contracts with
hospitals. In some cases, hospitals charged rivals 30 percent to
40 percent more than Blue Cross, the U.S. Justice Department has
said.  The case is Aetna v. Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan,
11-15346, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Michigan
(Detroit.)  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  BP Asks Judge to Reject U.S. Bid to Revoke Alaska Probation  BP Plc  asked a federal judge to reject a U.S. request that
the U.K.-based energy company have its probation revoked for a
spill in Alaska’s Prudhoe Bay, as closing arguments concluded.  BP pleaded guilty in 2007 to violating the  Clean Water Act 
by spilling 200,000 gallons of oil from its Prudhoe Bay field
into water on Alaska’s North Slope in 2006. It paid a $12
million fine and $8 million for restitution and community
service, and was put on three years’ probation.  The government asked U.S. District Judge Ralph Beistline in
Anchorage to revoke the probation, contending BP violated the
agreement when it spilled about 13,500 gallons of oil near
Prudhoe Bay in November 2009. The company didn’t do anything to
warrant such action, BP lawyer Jeff Feldman said in closing
arguments at the hearing yesterday.  The government has been attacking BP “with the perfect
wisdom of 20-20 hindsight,” Feldman said. “BP conformed to
industry standards.”  The U.S. sought to revoke probation just before it ended in
2010. Prosecutors may seek more money from the company if the
judge agrees the terms of the probation were violated. BP has
asked that the court reject the U.S. request and end probation
completely.  Beistline didn’t indicate yesterday when he would decide.  The case is U.S. v. BP Exploration (Alaska) Inc., 3:07-
cr-00125, U.S. District Court, District of Alaska (Anchorage).  For more, click here.  Citic Pacific Says It Didn’t Know Currency Exposure Impact  Citic Pacific Ltd. (267) ’s officers didn’t know the implications
of the company’s currency exposure when they failed to disclose
potential losses, a lawyer for the steelmaker and property
developer told a Hong Kong court.  “In contracts of this complexity, how can you decide
within two days that you’re going to sustain huge losses that
would require a report to the stock exchange,” said Collingwood
Thompson at a hearing Dec. 6 where Citic Pacific is fighting a
ruling that police should have access to some of its documents.  Hong Kong’s Department of Justice said in March it suspects
Citic Pacific defrauded four banks before Oct. 20, 2008, when it
sought financing without disclosing losses on currency bets. The
company had said in a stock exchange filing on Sept. 12 that
year that its directors weren’t aware of any material adverse
change in the group’s financial position.  Court of Appeal judges Michael Hartmann, Susan Kwan and
Jonathan Harris yesterday denied a Department of Justice request
to provide evidence from the banks that they were misled about
Citic Pacific’s finances.  In an Oct. 20 filing in 2008, the company said its bet the
Australian dollar would fall against its U.S. counterpart could
result in losses of as much as HK$15.5 billion ($2 billion). The
company learned of the exposure on Sept. 7, it said. The Sept.
12 filing cited information current until Sept. 9.  Justice Department lawyer Charlotte Draycott said yesterday
that any responsible director would have been monitoring the
relevant exchange rates on a daily basis.  “It’s completely unrealistic to say the people in charge
of this company, the board of directors, were not fully aware of
what was happening,” she told the court.  The case is Citic Pacific Ltd. and Secretary of Justice,
Commissioner of Police, CACV60/2011 in Hong Kong’s Court of
Appeal.  For more, click here.  Andy Coulson  Asks Court to Make News Corp. Pay Legal Bills  Andy Coulson, the ex-tabloid editor who resigned in January
as U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron’s press chief, told a judge
that News Corp. must pay his legal bills in a case over phone
hacking.  Coulson, who edited News Corp.’s News of the World before
going into government, was arrested in July as police
investigated the extent of hacking into celebrities’ voice mails
by reporters at the tabloid under his watch. He sued the company
on Sept. 22 over claims it breached his severance agreement by
refusing to pay his legal costs.  Coulson, who resigned as editor in 2007, has a “binding
contract” requiring the company’s News International unit to
“pay reasonable legal costs and expenses after termination” in
any proceedings related to his time as editor, his lawyer James
Laddie said yesterday at a  London  trial. News International
argued the deal doesn’t cover criminal cases and that, even if
it did, it wouldn’t cover costs related to an investigation.  London’s Metropolitan Police arrested Coulson on suspicion
of conspiring to hack into mobile-phone messages and in
conjunction with a probe of police bribery. He is free on bail
until March 2012, as is former News International Chief
Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks, who had also edited the paper
and was arrested the same month. Neither have been charged with
a crime.  Christopher Jeans, a lawyer for News International, said
the agreement only covered legal costs for the occupational
hazards of being an editor, such as libel lawsuits.  “What is not envisioned is criminal conduct by him
personally,” Jeans said. “It cannot be the case that anything
in the contract anticipates unlawful payments to the police or
unlawful interception of phone messages.”  The case is: A Coulson v. News Group Newspapers Ltd., case
no. 11-3525, High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division
(London).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials  Raj Rajaratnam Appeals Record $92.8 Million SEC Penalty  Raj Rajaratnam, the former hedge fund manager serving 11
years in prison for insider trading, appealed the record $92.8
million penalty imposed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission in its civil case against him.  Rajaratnam notified a federal court in Manhattan yesterday
that he’s asking a federal appeals court to review the decision
imposing the fine, which was entered by U.S. District Judge Jed
Rakoff on Nov. 8.  Rajaratnam, 54, had argued that he shouldn’t have to pay a
civil penalty in the SEC case because the judge in the criminal
case ordered him to pay a $10 million fine and forfeit $53.8
million.  A co-founder of Galleon Group LLC, Rajaratnam reported to
Federal Medical Center Devens in Ayer, Massachusetts, on Dec. 5
to begin his prison sentence. He was convicted by a federal jury
in May of 14 counts of conspiracy and securities fraud for
trading on inside information.  The SEC penalty is the largest ever assessed against a
person in an insider trading case,  Robert Khuzami , the SEC’s
director of enforcement, has said.  The case is SEC v. Rajaratnam, 09-cv-8811, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Gribkowsky Made Surprise Request for F-1 Fees, Witness Says  Gerhard Gribkowsky, a former  Bayerische Landesbank ’s
management board member, made a last minute request for extra
fees in the 2005 sale of the lender’s stake in the Formula One
racing series, a witness said at Gribkowsky’s fraud trial.  Gribkowsky, who was responsible for the lender’s investment
in the series, sought two extra payments as a “surprise and at
the last minute” during the 840 million-euro ($1.1 billion)
sale of BayernLB’s 47 percent Formula One stake to CVC Capital
Partners Ltd., Alexandra Irrgang, who worked on BayernLB’s team
overseeing the stake, told a court in Munich yesterday.  Gribkowsky is being tried on charges he received $44
million in bribes to facilitate the sale. Formula One Chief
Executive Officer Bernie Ecclestone, who is also being
investigated, had wanted Munich-based BayernLB to sell the stake
to private equity firm CVC, prosecutors said in the indictment.  Gribkowsky, the lender’s former chief risk officer, told
BayernLB’s management board that a failure to agree to the
payments might be a deal breaker.  The bank thought “the CVC offer was too good to be true
and we expected problems to surface at some point,” she said.  BayernLB’s management board didn’t inform the lender’s
supervisory board about the “high fees included in the sales
agreement,” Kurt Faltlhauser, the former supervisory board
head, told the court last month.  While BayernLB held the Formula One stake, “Ecclestone
wore us down in an extreme manner,” Irrgang said.  Ecclestone testified last month that he believed he had no
“alternative” to making payments to Gribkowsky as he feared
that the banker might disclose information to U.K. tax
authorities about the Bambino trust controlled by his then wife
that might be “very expensive” for him as he would have to
provide evidence that he wasn’t in control of the trust.  The Bambino trust has told the court the $25 million
transactions -- payments to four racing teams -- went to
compensate valid claims and were legitimate, Gribkowsky’s lawyer
Rainer Bruessow has said, adding that the allegations will
collapse.  CVC had no knowledge of any payment to Gribkowsky, the
company has said.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Ex-Ahold Official Gets 46 Months in Prison for Securities Fraud  Mark Kaiser, the ex-marketing chief of  Koninklijke Ahold
NV (AH) ’s former U.S. Foodservice unit, was sentenced to three years
and 10 months in prison for securities fraud.  “The details are of serious fraud involving many different
aspects and activities involving hundreds of millions of
dollars,” U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa said in court
yesterday in Manhattan before imposing the sentence. “I really
feel that I must impose a sentence which gives due regard for
the extent of that criminal conduct.”  Kaiser pleaded guilty in August to one count of conspiracy
to commit securities fraud in connection with a scheme to
inflate U.S. Foodservice’s financial results by about $800
million from 2000 to 2003 by booking promotional rebates as
income. The higher profit earned Kaiser and others “substantial
year-end bonuses,” the prosecutors said.  The federal sentencing guidelines in his plea agreement
called for prison time from 46 months to 57 months. Dan Brown,
Kaiser’s lawyer, asked the judge to issue a probationary
sentence.  “I hope you will agree the past bad decisions that bring
me before you today are in my past,” Kaiser told the judge
yesterday.  Kaiser was convicted in 2006. After that trial, Griesa
sentenced him to seven years in prison.  In 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York threw out
his conviction and ordered a new trial because the lower-court
judge had allowed some improper evidence to come into the case.
Kaiser entered his plea on Aug. 15.  The case is U.S. v. Kaiser, 04-cr-00733, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-Marvell Accountant Ng Pleads Guilty in Insider Probe  Stanley Ng, a former  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) 
accountant, pleaded guilty to his role in an insider-trading
scheme involving so-called expert networking firms.  Ng admitted yesterday passing information about Marvell’s
earnings in 2007 and 2008 to two members of an “investment
club” that prosecutors said was set up to trade illegal stock
tips. The government said Ng was recruited into the group by
Winifred Jiau, a former consultant with expert-networking firm
Primary Global Research LLC who was convicted in June.  “I provided material, nonpublic information to Winifred
Jiau and Sonny Nguyen about Marvell’s quarterly financial
results before those results were made public,” Ng told U.S.
District Judge Jed S. Rakoff in Manhattan. “In exchange I
received similar stock tips from my co-conspirators.”  Ng was hired by Marvell in 2002 to be the company’s
Securities and Exchange Commission reporting manager, the
government said. He had access to company financial records and
regulatory filings before they became public, according to
prosecutors.  Ng remains free on a $50,000 bond secured by his home in
Cupertino,  California . He’s scheduled to be sentenced April 9.  The case is U.S. v. Ng, 11-02096, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interclick Investors File Settlement Plan Over Yahoo Buyout  Investors in  Interclick Inc. (ICLK) , a provider of marketing
advice based on consumers’ online behavior, filed a tentative
settlement of lawsuits over a planned $270 million buyout by
 Yahoo!  Inc.  Yahoo on Nov. 1 agreed to acquire New York-based Interclick
for $9 a share, a 22 percent premium at the time. Some
shareholders sued Interclick directors in Delaware Chancery
Court and state court in New York, saying the price was too low.  “As part of the settlement, all of the defendants deny all
allegations of wrongdoing,” according to a Dec. 5 report to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The parties signed a memorandum of understanding Dec. 4 to
settle the cases in exchange for “certain supplemental
disclosures” about the buyout process, according to court
papers. The accord requires approval from a Delaware judge.  “The settlement will not affect the amount of
consideration to be paid” in the deal, Yahoo told the SEC.  The lead Delaware case is Whaley v. Brauser and Interclick
Inc., CA7038-VCG, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 