-- 
Hungary May ‘Squander’ $450 Million on Mobile Deal, KBC Says

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-12-08T12:23:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/hungary-may-squander-400-million-on-mobile-provider-kbc-says.html
Hungary may spend as much as 100
billion forint ($446 million) on setting up a state-backed
mobile network operator, which is an “unnecessary” expense
given the pressures on the budget, according to KBC Securities.  Hungary’s state-owned electricity wholesaler MVM Zrt. is
bidding for a mobile-telephone license together with the
country’s postal service and state-owned Magyar Fejlesztesi Bank
Zrt., Napi Gazdasag reported yesterday.  Magyar Telekom Nyrt. (MTEL) ,
the country’s former phone monopoly, now competes with units of
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Telenor ASA (TEL)  on the mobile market.  Hungary bought OAO Surgutneftegas’s 21.2 percent stake in
refiner  Mol Nyrt. (MOL)  in May for 1.88 billion euros ($2.5 billion),
which helped push the  budget deficit  to 181.5 percent of the
full-year target by the end of November, according to data
published by the  Economy Ministry  yesterday. Entering the mobile
market would be a similar strain on the budget as the funds
‘squandered” on the MOL stake this year, Gergely Palffy, a
Budapest-based analyt at KBC, wrote in a research report.  “We wouldn’t be surprised to see similar unnecessary
moves, even if the development costs for a fourth player amounts
to roughly 100 billion forints,” Palffy wrote.  Hungary, the European Union’s most indebted eastern member,
last month lost its investment-grade credit-ranking at Moody’s
Investors Service, which said the government may not be able to
meet its fiscal consolidation and public debt reduction targets.  State-owned companies have a “right” to engage in
ventures if they expect them to be profitable for the
government, Development Minister Tamas Fellegi told reporters
today. “The budget and the Hungarian state don’t stand behind
the fourth mobile provider, state-owned companies may do so,”
Fellegi said.  The entrance of a fourth mobile operator would also be
“potentially destructive” for the existing three players’
operating results and may hinder their efforts to develop 4G
networks, KBC’s Palffy wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  