-- 
Hungary Bank Talks on Foreign Loans ’Promising,’ Simor Says

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-12-08T12:22:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/hungary-bank-talks-on-foreign-loans-promising-simor-says-1-.html
Talks between the Hungarian
government and banks on helping foreign-currency borrowers are
“very promising,” central bank Governor Andras Simor said.  “Any solution to this problem should aim to help the most
needy, should share the burden among banks, borrowers and the
state and should be gradual,” Simor said at a conference in
Budapest today.  Hungarian banks presented a set of proposals to the
government last month to help foreign-currency borrowers whose
repayments jumped after the forint weakened. The solution to the
existing foreign-currency loan stocks should focus on
“decreasing systemic vulnerabilities,” Simor said.  A law passed by  Hungary  in September allowing the early
repayment of foreign-currency mortgages at about 25 percent
below market rates has been “extremely detrimental,” Simor
said.  Hungarian banks expect total losses from the repayment plan
to reach 200 billion forint ($889 million), Levente Kovacs,
secretary general of the Bank Association said this week.  Hungary needs “predictable” economic policy to boost
corporate lending, which is still declining, Simor said. “The
banking system simply can’t increase its lending when there’s an
erratic and zig-zagging economic policy.”  A successful restoration of confidence in Hungary may help
stem the outflow of banks’ capital, according to Simor. The
country needs a liquid-asset requirement for banks and should
work to expand mortgage-based financing to extend the maturity
of banks’ funding, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  