-- 
Munich Re’s Ergo to Rename HMI Sales Force Following Scandals

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-12-08T10:37:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/munich-re-s-ergo-to-rename-hmi-sales-force-following-scandals.html
Ergo Versicherungsgruppe , the primary
insurer of  Munich Re (RUKN) , said it plans to retire the  HMI  sales
brand following scandals that included a broker party with
prostitutes.  “As a visible sign that for HMI the same high quality
standards apply as to the other sales organizations, HMI will be
renamed using the Ergo brand in January 2012,” the Dusseldorf-
based insurer said in an e-mailed  statement  today.  Ergo approved a code of conduct for independent sales
agents on Aug. 3 after a 2007 Budapest party featuring
prostitutes for HMI brokers was revealed this year. Closing HMI
entirely was also considered, Ergo management board member Rolf Wiswesser said on a conference call with reporters today.  “We didn’t want to make thousands of employees at HMI pay
for the misconduct of a few,” Wiswesser said.  Ergo, led by Chief Executive Officer Torsten Oletzky, is
 Germany ’s second-biggest primary insurer after  Allianz SE  and
fully owned by  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer.  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Munich Re staff have also
been examining sales practices in Ergo’s occupational pensions
business that have been criticized in the press.  That audit didn’t reveal “systemic wrongdoing” by the
company, Ergo said today, adding that certain cases will be
further investigated and clarified with customers.  Handelsblatt , the German newspaper that first reported the
Budapest party, followed with a series of other stories about
practices at Ergo units, including the sale of state-subsidized
retirement products using outdated cost data and switching
insurance coverage in pensions to the disadvantage of customers.
Ergo was in the middle of an  advertising campaign  focusing on
transparency and fairness at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  