-- 
Huntsman Says GOP Rivals ‘No Better’ Than Obama

-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 
2011-12-08T19:00:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/huntsman-says-republican-campaign-rivals-no-better-than-obama.html
Presidential candidate  Jon Huntsman 
said President Barack Obama is failing as a leader and that his
rivals for the Republican nomination are “no better.”  Huntsman, who served as Obama’s ambassador to  China , is
trying to gain traction in the primary race now dominated by
front-runners  Newt Gingrich  and  Mitt Romney . He spoke today at
the  National Press Club  in Washington and is holding a town hall
in the New Hampshire town of Milford tonight.  Obama’s “inexperience and failure to lead have left us
worse off,” the former governor of Utah told reporters at the
press club. “My opponents offer no better.”  Romney, a former governor of  Massachusetts , will “say
anything” to win voters and Gingrich, a former U.S. House
speaker, “is a product” of a broken system in  Washington ,
having worked as a consultant to companies and interest groups,
Huntsman said. He said he offers voters a different option.  “We have a choice between a panderer-in-chief, a lobbyist-
in-chief or a commander-in-chief,” Huntsman said. “I want to
be the commander-in-chief.”  Obama campaign spokesman Ben LaBolt and Romney spokeswoman
Andrea Saul declined to comment. Gingrich spokesman R.C. Hammond
didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Seven-Point Plan  Huntsman laid out a seven-point plan for fixing what he
called the “trust deficit” that Americans have with the
government. He said people have a right to be angry because
“they’re getting screwed.”  Huntsman’s plan calls for eliminating loopholes in the  tax
code  and reducing the overall rate. He would also overhaul
 entitlements  and cut spending throughout government to reduce
the  deficit , cap the size of banks and impose fees on the
biggest institutions, work to make the U.S. energy independent,
and streamline regulations.  Troops would come home from  Afghanistan  with an
“appropriately sized” counterterrorism force left in place,
Huntsman said. And he would seek a constitutional amendment to
limit congressional terms while putting in place more
restrictions on government officials who later lobby. He said he
would require lawmakers and Cabinet officials to disclose their
finances for four years after leaving their posts.  “We must save capitalism from crony capitalists,”
Huntsman said.  During a question-and-answer period, Huntsman said he
believed the Defense of Marriage Act, which defines marriage as
being between a man and a woman, “serves a useful purpose.” He
also said he wasn’t considering running as an independent
because he believed he would win the Republican nomination.  Asked whether it was legitimate for Gingrich’s prior
marriages to become an issue, Huntsman said it didn’t matter
whether he thought such topics were appropriate or not.
“They’re going to be talked about,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  