-- 
Turkey Seeks U.S. Drones for Terrorism Fight, Ambassador Says

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-12-08T18:02:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/turkey-seeks-u-s-drones-for-terrorism-fight-ambassador-says.html
Turkey  expects the U.S. will approve
its request for drones it can use on its own in the fight
against the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, known as the PKK,
according to Turkish Ambassador Namik Tan.  Drones are among the requests Turkey has made of the U.S.
to help thwart the PKK, which both countries list as a terrorist
group, Nam said. The PKK operates largely in southeastern
Turkey, near the borders with Syria and Iraq, where Turkish
forces fight the group.  The U.S. has increased its own use of unmanned aerial
vehicles over northern Iraq in recent years to aid in the fight.
Pentagon spokesman John Kirby told reporters Nov. 14 that four
U.S.-operated Predator drones, which are made by  General
Atomics Aeronautical Systems Inc., moved from  Iraq  are operating
from the Incirlik airbase in Turkey.  U.S. officials including President  Barack Obama  and Vice
President  Joe Biden , who visited the Turkish capital over the
weekend, have “expressed a willingness to help us” fulfill the
list of requests, Tan said. He declined to specify what Turkey
has requested beyond unmanned aerial vehicles that it can use
itself.  “They know what we want and we expect them to deliver,”
Tan told reporters in Washington today at a breakfast organized
by the Christian Science Monitor. “It includes, of course, the
drones,” he said.  Turkey is interested in buying Predators or the General
Atomics Reaper UAV, which can carry Hellfire missiles, the
Washington Post reported Nov. 1. Alexander Vershbow, U.S.
assistant secretary of defense for international security
affairs, told the American-Turkish Council in  Washington  that
the drone sale was being held up by concerns in Congress about
Turkey’s deteriorating relations with  Israel , the Post reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  