-- 
Turkey 2-Year Swaps Rise to Highest Since 2009 Over 10-Year

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-12-08T17:41:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/turkey-swap-curve-gap-rises-to-2-year-high-on-tight-policy-bets.html
The cost of two-year interest-rate
swaps in  Turkey  rose to the highest level above 10-year
contracts since 2009 after stronger industrial production and
steeper inflation forecasts spurred bets of tighter monetary
policy.  The two-year swap rates, which overtook 10-year
counterparts for the first time on Oct. 27, are 66 basis points
higher today, the biggest spread since March 2009. The central
bank said yesterday it expects inflation to rise within 12
months to 7.15 percent from its estimate of 6.99 percent two
weeks ago.  “Two-year swaps are rising more than the 10-year because
the market is betting on tightening. Our expectation is for 50
basis points over the next three months,” Guillaume Tresca, a
strategist at Credit Agricole SA in Paris, said in e-mailed
comments.  Turkey’s Gross Domestic Product rose 7.3 percent from
October 2010, the government statistics agency said on its
website today. The median forecast was 5 percent in a Bloomberg
survey of seven economists.  “Today’s industrial production data possibly caused the
rise in two-year swaps and widening spreads,”  Inan Demir , chief
economist at Finansbank AS, said in e-mailed comments.  Short-Term Rates  The central bank cut interest rates in August as part of a
plan to narrow Turkey’s record  current-account deficit  and deter
short-term capital inflows. The lira has fallen 16 percent
against the dollar this year, the second worst-performer among
major emerging-market currencies. The drop forced the bank to
double borrowing costs on Oct. 26, in an effort to slow loan
growth under a dual interest rate policy.  The policy of lending at overnight rates as high as 12.5
percent rather than the 5.75 percent one-week repo rate “pushes
short-term rates up very high, but no one expects these high
rates to remain in place forever, which is why long-term
 interest rates  are below short-term,”  James Lord , London-based
emerging-market strategist at Morgan Stanley, said in e-mailed
comments. “Morgan Stanley expects the tight policy stance to
remain in place for the near future.”  The central bank is likely to hold its benchmark one-week
interest rates at 5.75 percent in 2012, the median estimate of
five economists surveyed by Bloomberg showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  