-- 
Water Projects to Grow Faster Than Oil Business, Amec CEO Says

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-12-08T09:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/water-projects-to-grow-faster-than-oil-business-amec-ceo-says.html
Amec Plc (AMEC) , the U.K.-based oil and gas
engineer, expects water projects to become its fastest-growing
business as pressure on existing supplies forces investment in
desalination and waste treatment.  “We anticipate that the water sector is going to grow much
beyond the average rate of growth of any of the businesses,”
Chief Executive Officer Samir Brikho said, estimating the water
will expand as fast as 25 percent a year. “There are about 1.4
billion people without fresh water. Amec has been investing a
lot of money.”  Amec’s mainstay oil and gas business will benefit from
crude  oil prices  above $100 a barrel and growing commodity
demand in  emerging markets , Brikho said in an interview at the
World Petroleum Congress in Doha, Qatar. The London-based
company expects earnings per share to reach more than 100 pence by
2015 from an estimated 71.2 pence this year as margins on profits 
hold at about 9 percent.  “Demand today is driven by Asia,” Brikho said. “We are
now looking at how we are able to grow our business in Asia,”
 Latin America  and the  Middle East .  Amec is considering acquisitions, Brikho said. The company
had about 430 million pounds ($675 million) in cash at the end
of October, according to its  presentation  from Nov. 24. Amec
will keep returning some cash to shareholders. The directors
“don’t see why we should hold back on dividends as long as
we are making money,” he said, declining to comment on the size
of future payments.  “We have a pipeline of acquisitions” and are examining
plans to add “skills and talents in sub-sea engineering in the
oil and gas business, underground mining,” water and nuclear
support businesses, he said. “The primary use of our cash is
going to be to do acquisitions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ; 