-- 
Web-Name Expansion Should Proceed Slowly, Rockefeller Says

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-12-08T20:35:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/web-name-expansion-plan-should-proceed-slowly-rockefeller-says.html
The nonprofit organization that
manages the Internet’s address system should proceed slowly with
a plan to add new top-level domains beyond .com and .org, the
chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee said.  The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers
should consider scaling back the initial round of new domains to
be introduced in 2013, Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia
Democrat who leads the Commerce Committee, said today at a
hearing on the program.  “If Icann is determined to move forward, it should do so
slowly and cautiously,” Rockefeller said in prepared remarks.
“The potential for fraud, consumer confusion and cybersquatting
is massive and argues for a phased-in implementation.”  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and Coca-Cola Co.
are among more than 40 companies that last month joined with the
Association of National Advertisers to oppose the domain
expansion, saying it will increase costs for companies, confuse
customers and create new risks of Internet fraud.  Federal Trade Commission Chairman Jon Leibowitz said
yesterday the planned addition of top-level domains may be a
“disaster,” allowing con artists to set up fraudulent
websites. The FTC, which has no direct authority over Icann, can
act when companies engage in deceptive trade practices.  Icann, which manages the Web’s address system under a
contract with the U.S. Commerce Department, will start taking
applications Jan. 12 for potentially hundreds of new top-level
domains such as .apple and .book. The Marina del Ray,
California-based group will consider company and brand names,
cities and words as potential Web suffixes. Applications will
cost $185,000 for each domain.  Trademark Protections  The top-level domain program includes protections for
trademark holders and background reviews of applicants, Kurt Pritz, Icann senior vice president of stakeholder relations,
said in testimony to the committee. Limiting the number of new
domains by some “artificial means” may put Icann in the
“awkward position of choosing winners or losers,” Pritz said
after the hearing.  Icann, manager of the Internet’s address system since 1998
for the U.S. government, now oversees 22 so-called generic top-
level domains, including the commonly used .com, .org and .net.  Dan Jaffe, executive vice president of government relations
at the Association of National Advertisers, said there is
“nothing sacred” about the January date for beginning the
program and told lawmakers the effort should be stopped or
delayed.  Given the serious concerns raised by the business community
and the potential dangers to consumers, “it would be
irresponsible for Icann to proceed full speed ahead with the
roll-out next month,” Jaffe said in testimony to the committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  