-- 
Weir Says China to Get Locally Made Shale Gas Equipment in 2012

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-08T10:58:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/weir-says-china-to-get-locally-made-shale-gas-equipment-in-2012.html
Weir Group Plc (WEIR) , the world’s biggest
maker of pumps for the  mining industry , said China’s state-owned
oil explorers are expected to be among the first users of
locally made shale-gas equipment starting next year.  Weir, which formed a venture with local partner Shengli
Oilfield Highland Petroleum Equipment Co., will start testing
manufacturing facilities at their plant in Dongying in Shandong
province in the first quarter of next year, Chris Poole,
divisional vice president of engineering at Weir Oil & Gas, said
today in an interview in Beijing. Production will start after
the tests are completed, he said.  “Initially, it will be mostly assembly facilities,” said
Poole, declining to reveal the plant’s capacity. “For assembly
facilities, there will be just floor and people.”  Most of the equipment to be manufactured in the Dongying
factory will go to Shengli Oilfield Highland’s clients,
including  China  National Petroleum Corp., China Petrochemical
Corp. and China National Offshore Oilfield Corp. Weir, based in
Glasgow,  Scotland , owns 60 percent in the venture that was
formed in November 2010, while Shengli Oilfield Highland holds
40 percent.  Shale gas is extracted using hydraulic fracturing, a
process in which millions of gallons of chemically treated water
and sand is forced underground, breaking up the rock to free
trapped gas.  China currently doesn’t produce shale gas commercially. The
U.S. Energy Information Administration said in April that
Chinese shale may hold 1,275 trillion cubic feet of gas, 12
times the country’s conventional natural gas resource.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Guo Aibing in Beijing at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 