-- 
Wells Fargo Pays $148 Million to Settle Wachovia Muni Bid-Rigging Charges

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-12-08T22:24:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/wells-fargo-pays-148-million-to-settle-wachovia-muni-bid-rigging-charges.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  agreed to pay $148
million to settle criminal charges and civil claims for
conspiring to overcharge state and local governments on
investments, becoming the fourth bank to enter a settlement in
the case.  The deal will resolve investigations into Wachovia Bank,
which Wells Fargo acquired in 2008, by federal agencies,
including the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Justice
Department, as well as attorneys general in 26 states, the
Justice Department said in a statement.  The case is the latest in a more than five-year
investigation into how Wall Street banks conspired with local-
government advisers to reap excessive fees on investments sold
to public agencies by rigging competitive auctions and carving
up the market among themselves.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., (JPM)   UBS AG (UBSN)  and
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  previously settled similar cases.  “Wachovia won bids by playing an elaborate game of ‘you
scratch my back and I’ll scratch yours,’ rather than engaging in
legitimate competition to win municipalities’ business,”  Robert Khuzami , the SEC’s Division of Enforcement director, said in a
statement.  The settlement by Wells Fargo will bring to $673 million
the amount that banks have paid to settle the case, some of
which is being returned to localities that were overcharged in
the scheme.  Former Employees  Wells Fargo, based in  San Francisco , said the conduct was
by former employees of Wachovia before its acquisition. About
$59 million from the settlement will go to state  attorneys
general , the bank said. Another $34.5 million will go to the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, including $14.5
million that will be distributed to municipalities that were
victims of the scheme.  Jefferson County,  Alabama , which filed the biggest-ever
U.S. municipal bankruptcy last month after years of financial
distress caused by a botched $3 billion refinancing of sewer
renovations, will get $678,593 in restitution,  according  to the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  “Wells Fargo is pleased to have fully resolved this
investigation of Wachovia Bank,” the bank said in a statement.  Collusion Exposed  The federal investigation has exposed collusion among
banks, insurance companies and advisers involved in municipal
finance. The behavior illuminated by the conduct helped inspire
new regulations being imposed on the previously unregulated
advisory firms who help arrange financial transactions for
public officials.  The charges are connected to investment contracts that
states and cities bought with proceeds raised in the $3.7
trillion municipal-bond market, allowing them to earn a return
until the cash is needed for public-works projects.  Such contracts, a type of derivative, were supposed to be
awarded to banks that offered the highest return at competitive
auctions arranged by financial advisers.  U.S. investigators say advisers fixed the auctions to steer
business to a favored bidder in return for kickbacks, with rival
bankers sometimes submitting intentionally losing bids to help
cover it up. That cost both the local governments and the  U.S.
Treasury , which is sometimes entitled to interest payments that
governments make by investing municipal bond proceeds.  Criminal Charges  So far, the  Justice Department  said it has brought criminal
charges against 18 former executives of financial-services
firms, nine of whom have pleaded guilty. The department said it
is continuing to investigate.  The SEC said Wachovia was involved in rigging at least 58
transactions over an eight-year span involving the proceeds of
more than $9 billion of municipal bonds. Wachovia steered new
business to brokers who participated in the conspiracy, the SEC
said. Wells Fargo neither admitted nor denied the SEC
allegations.  The agency said it made “millions of dollars in ill-gotten
gains” by acting on tips about rival bids, working with rivals
to fix auctions in its favor and submitting sham bids for those
deals arranged to benefit its competitors.  “The illegal conduct at Wachovia Bank corrupted the
bidding practices for investment contracts and deprived
municipalities of the competitive process to which they were
entitled,” Sharis Pozen, acting assistant attorney general in
charge of the Justice Department’s Antitrust Division, said in a
statement. “We are committed to ensuring competition in the
financial markets, and our investigation into anticompetitive
conduct in the municipal bond derivatives industry continues.”  The Justice Department said it agreed not to prosecute
Wachovia because the bank admitted its illegal conduct,
cooperated with the bid-rigging investigation and took steps to
address anticompetitive conduct. The department also cited
Wachovia’s commitment to make restitution.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  