-- 
White House Seeks to Spur Cloud-Computing Use by Agencies

-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 
2011-12-08T21:46:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/white-house-seeks-to-spur-cloud-computing-use-by-u-s-agencies.html
U.S. government agencies would use
standard security requirements and contracting language in
purchasing cloud-computing services under a program unveiled by
the Obama administration.  The Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program also
would include a pre-screened list of cloud-computing service
providers, Steven VanRoekel, the U.S. government’s chief
information officer, said during a conference call today.  The program is aimed at spurring wider agency adoption of
cloud-computing, which the Obama administration has said would
help reduce the $80 billion in federal information-technology
spending. The cloud is a Web-based pool of shared computing
resources such as software and data storage.  “Not only are we saving money by moving to the cloud and
getting more operational efficiency, we’re also eliminating
legacy systems,” VanRoekel said.  Agencies have eliminated 50 legacy systems and shifted 40
services to the cloud to date, while OMB has identified 79
services that will make the transition by June, VanRoekel said.  VanRoekel said the program announced today is intended in
part to ease concerns among technology officials at U.S.
agencies that the cloud is less secure. The program announced
today will be rolled out in phases and become operational in six
months, according to the Office of Management and Budget.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  are among technology
companies competing for federal cloud-computing contracts.  ‘Appropriately Funded’  The program may be a “game-changer” that helps agencies
transition to cloud services with the necessary security,
Jennifer Kerber, vice president of federal homeland security
policy for TechAmerica, a Washington-based technology industry
trade association, said in an e-mailed statement. Kerber said
the program should be “appropriately funded.”  The success of the effort “will be determined by how well
these new standards are applied, which will require continued
collaboration and evolution,” Andras Szakal, vice president and
chief technology officer for IBM U.S. Federal, said in an e-
mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  