-- 
Why We All Should Welcome Bernanke’s Complaints: Matthew Winkler

-- B y   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r
-- 
2011-12-08T00:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/why-we-should-welcome-bernanke-s-complaints-commentary-by-matthew-winkler.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s response to Bloomberg News reporting regarding the
Fed’s emergency lending to banks and other companies, although
hardly complimentary, sounded a welcome note of engagement by
the U.S. central bank in issues that frame one of the most
important financial stories of our time.  While Bernanke’s  letter , posted Dec. 6 on the U.S. central
bank’s website, didn’t name Bloomberg, it said recent news
articles about the Fed’s lending contained “egregious errors.”
It cited complaints related to facts unearthed and presented by
Bloomberg reporters, as well as how others have mischaracterized
those findings.  Bloomberg stands by its reporting. For more on the
company’s response to the Fed,  click here . My purpose, in this
essay, isn’t to debate the Fed chairman, but to praise him.  Under Bernanke, who noted that transparency “increases
democratic accountability” during his November 2005 nomination
hearing, the central bank has taken several steps toward
openness.  The  minutes  of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s November
meeting, released last month, included more information than
that panel has ever made public before. Specifically, the Fed
released data to help quantify the committee’s sense of
uncertainty. The release came after Bloomberg News reported some
traders’ views that the Fed’s September policy statement citing
“significant downside risks” -- with no supporting data -- had
served only to confuse markets.  Primary Dealers  This month, the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York   published 
the contents of a survey it sent to primary dealers, a
questionnaire that addressed the probability that central bank
policy makers next year will provide more information on their
objectives and their assessments of “appropriate monetary
policy.”  Such surveys of the 21 firms that trade  government
securities  with the Fed haven’t been made public before, and
Bloomberg News in November filed a request for them under the
Freedom of Information Act. Instead, information about their
contents sometimes leaked; they are considered potentially
valuable glimpses into the central bank’s thinking. Making the
actual questions public eases the concern that only certain
insiders will get that view.  Beyond these measures, and the promise of still more next
year, Bernanke in April began holding quarterly news
conferences, a first for a Fed chairman. He also has established
a subcommittee of the Fed board to examine additional
transparency steps.  Rejected Request  These moves contrast with the Fed’s decision-making
beginning in May 2008, when the central bank first rejected a
Freedom of Information Act request from a Bloomberg News
reporter named Mark Pittman. Pittman sought details of the Fed’s
emergency lending during the largest financial bailout in U.S.
history. The central bank argued that releasing specifics about
the borrowers might prompt depositor runs or investor sell-offs,
hurting the financial system even further. Bloomberg LP, the
parent company of Bloomberg News, sued for the information; News
Corp.’s Fox News Network LLC later filed a similar suit.  The Fed’s argument against transparency became harder to
sustain by the summer of 2010, as the  U.S. Congress  was
considering an overhaul of financial regulation. Still, senators
and representatives from both sides of the aisle have made clear
that they weren’t apprised of the lending details even as they
voted on the Dodd-Frank law.  Because of the new law, the first specifics of the Fed’s
loans finally came to light in December 2010. Pittman, who died
in November 2009, never got the chance to see them, or other
releases that followed after Bloomberg won its lawsuit.  Two Truths  Those disclosures, the first of their kind by the Fed,
formed the basis for more than a score of news stories over the
past year, including those Bernanke complained about this week.
Those reports, full of information that had not been made
public, revealed two fundamental truths:  First, the Fed deserves ample credit for acting in bold,
unprecedented ways to save the financial system and the world
from a disaster of mind-boggling magnitude. Second, aspects of
that rescue make clear that the Fed also merits ample scrutiny
about how it operated. Nothing less is acceptable in a world
that values transparent markets and governments -- and strives
toward both.  The extent to which Bernanke’s Fed is willing to engage
with such matters -- and the chairman’s letter this week shows
evidence of real engagement -- will only give investors, policy
makers and the public more faith in this powerful institution.  We don’t expect to agree always. Regardless, we welcome the
frank sharing of views that Bernanke initiated this week.  ( Matthew Winkler  is the editor-in-chief of Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Matthew Winkler at   mwinkler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 