-- 
Twitter Redesigns Microblogging Service as Company Chases More Advertising

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-12-08T19:09:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/twitter-redesigns-for-personalization-speed.html
Twitter Inc. , the microblogging
service that lets people send 140-character messages, redesigned
the site to make it faster and simpler to navigate.  The service  will feature tabs  at the top of the screen that
let users more easily access their home pages, connect with
others and discover new content, Twitter said today at an event
in San Francisco. The updated site will be available to all
users in the next few weeks.  “As other services tack feature after feature after
feature on top of each other, we’re going to go in an entirely
different direction and offer simplicity in a world of
complexity,” Chief Executive Officer  Dick Costolo  said. “This
new Twitter is really a foundation for us.”  Twitter is enhancing the service to win over more users
and make the site more attractive to advertisers. The company
has been coping with executive turnover and a slow rollout of
its ad program, which promises to be its main source of revenue.
Co-founders Evan Williams and Biz Stone have lessened their
involvement under Costolo, who took the reins in October 2010.
Mike Abbott, a vice president in charge of engineering, also has
stepped down.  Founders Disperse  Stone and Williams are concentrating on a startup incubator
called Obvious Corp., leaving Twitter without the full attention
of any of its creators. Co-founder Jack Dorsey divides his time
between Twitter and mobile-payment company Square Inc.  As part of the upgrades, Twitter’s Timeline feature will be
500 percent faster than three or four months ago. The Timeline
provides a scrolling list of messages, putting the most recent
posts at the top. Users’ profile sections also will redesigned.  Twitter will generate $139.5 million this year from ads,
according to EMarketer Inc. The research firm pared its estimate
from $150 million in September because Twitter has been slow to
roll out some services.  Twitter, based in  San Francisco , will see ads surge in
coming years, especially as it attracts more international
advertisers, EMarketer said. Twitter may bring in $259.9 million
in ad revenue in 2012, up 86 percent from 2011, the firm
estimates. International ad sales will make up 10 percent of the
total in 2012, up from 4 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  