-- 
World Food Prices Fall for a Fifth Month, May Be ‘Bottoming Out,’ UN Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-12-08T09:13:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/world-food-prices-fall-for-a-fifth-month-may-be-bottoming-out-un-says.html
World food prices declined for a
fifth month in November, the longest slide in more than a year,
amid signs commodity prices may be “bottoming out,” the
 United Nations ’  Food and Agriculture Organization  said.  An  index  of 55 food items fell 0.5 percent to 215 points
from 216 in October, the Rome-based FAO said on its website
today. The gauge dropped 4 percent in October, the biggest slide
since March 2010, after rising to a record 237.7 in February.  Food prices remain elevated after falling from February’s
level, with the index at the highest value compared with year-
earlier periods for each of the past eight months, raising the
cost of living across the world. Chinese consumer prices
probably increased 4.5 percent in November from a year earlier,
according to 35 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg, and
compared with a government target of 4 percent.  “Generally speaking, we are in many aspects bottoming
out,”  Abdolreza Abbassian , a senior economist at the FAO, said
by phone yesterday. “Prices are bottoming out for many
commodities in spite of high supplies.”  Drought in Ukraine may be supporting grains,
according to Abbassian. The country’s winter grains sprouted on
71 percent of seeded areas as dry weather damaged crops, the
 Agriculture Ministry  reported yesterday.  “We have had these huge production numbers coming in and
the decline in prices has been relatively modest,” Abbassian
said from Moscow. “People are talking about the drought
problem in Ukraine.”  Previous Peak  The FAO price index’s four-month drop through October was
the longest since July 2008 to February 2009, when
the gauge fell 37 percent from its previous peak of 224 points
in June 2008. The gauge is still above the year-earlier level of
212.7 points.  The FAO, set up in 1945 as a specialized UN agency, says
it leads international efforts to defeat hunger and helps
developing countries improve farming. Its mandate includes
lifting nutrition levels and agricultural productivity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  