-- 
Yield Curve Signals Slowing Economy May Tame Price Growth: India Credit

-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-12-09T05:10:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/yield-curve-signals-slowing-economy-may-tame-price-growth-india-credit.html
Investors in India’s bond market are
betting that the central bank will succeed in taming  inflation 
as  Asia ’s third-biggest economy slows.  Yields on the nation’s 10-year notes traded five basis
points below one-year securities today after the yield curve
inverted for the first time since September last week, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. In  China , 2021 bonds yielded 106
basis points more than shorter-dated debt, while in Russia bonds
due in a decade were 208 basis points higher.  The drop in longer-term yields shows that the slowing
 economy , which grew the least for eight quarters in the three
months to Sept. 30, will help weaken inflation, according to
Credit Suisse Group AG and Nomura Holdings Inc. Annual price
increases slowed to 9 percent in November from 9.7 percent a
month earlier, according to the median forecast of 20 economists
in a Bloomberg survey before data due on Dec. 14.  “The inverted yield curve indicates an economic
slowdown,” Navneet Munot, who oversees $9.2 billion as chief
investment officer at SBI Funds Management Pvt. in Mumbai, said
in an interview on Dec. 7. “Inflation will soften into the new
year, and we expect the central bank to cut rates by the middle
of next year.”  The inflation rate will drop to at least 7.5 percent by
March, Munot said.  India ’s yield curve was inverted in the five months through
October 2008 before consumer-price increases and economic growth
slowed. The  wholesale-price index , which the central bank uses
to guide monetary policy, rose 1.7 percent from a year earlier
in March 2009, compared with 7.7 percent in March 2008. The
economy grew 5.8 percent from a year earlier in the quarter
ended March 2009, the least in four years.  Slowing Growth  The nation’s bonds have rallied this month after government
data showed on Nov. 30 that the $1.7 trillion economy  expanded 
6.9 percent in the three months through September, the slowest
pace since the second quarter of 2009.  Exports rose 10.8 percent in October from a year earlier,
the least in two years, Commerce Ministry data showed on Dec. 1.
Factory output shrank 0.6 percent in October from a year earlier
after increasing 1.9 percent in September, according to the
median forecast of 20 economists in a Bloomberg survey before
data due on Dec. 12. It will be the first contraction in more
than two years.  Yields on the nation’s generic one-year  notes  rose two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.57 percent today,
while those on 8.79 percent notes due in November 2021 were
little changed at 8.52 percent ahead of an auction of government
debt today.  The  Finance Ministry  will sell a combined 130 billion
rupees ($2.5 billion) of six-, 11-, 13- and 30-year securities.
The central bank purchased 91 billion rupees of bonds at an
open-market auction yesterday, the  Reserve Bank  said in an e-
mailed statement. I The 10-year  rate  has dropped 22 basis points
this month.  ‘Betting on Rate Cuts’  India’s interest-rate swaps are declining ahead of a policy
review by the central bank on Dec. 16. The cost to lock in
 interest rates  for 12 months fell five basis points to 7.77
percent today, taking the drop for the month to 29 basis points.  The  Reserve Bank of India , which has boosted benchmark
rates seven times this year, is the only central bank of the
four biggest  emerging markets  to raise borrowing costs this
quarter. The repurchase rate is 8.5 percent, compared with the
U.S. rate of zero to 0.25 percent and the euro zone’s 1 percent
target, cut by 25 basis points yesterday.  “The yield-curve inversion would signal the market is
betting on rate cuts,”  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , the Singapore-
based head of India and Southeast Asia economics at Credit
Suisse Group, said yesterday. “There is better news on
inflation ahead as growth is slowing sharply.”  Weakening Rupee  Inflation will slow to less than 6 percent by June, he
predicts, as global commodity prices cool. The UBS Bloomberg
Constant Maturity Commodity  Index  has lost 18 percent from a
record high in April, while crude oil in  New York  has dropped 16
percent from this year’s high to $98.16 a barrel. India imports
about 80 percent of its fuel requirements.  The rupee’s 14 percent slide this year against the dollar
will counter cooling commodity prices outside India, according
to Stockholm, Sweden-based Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB.  India’s currency declined 0.8 percent today to 52.1850 per
dollar, weakening every trading day this week.  “I continue to be hawkish on inflation,” Sailesh K. Jha,
the Singapore-based head of Asia markets strategy at  Sweden ’s
third-biggest lender by assets, said in an interview yesterday.
“The decline in 10-year bond yields isn’t sustainable given
that inflation is still fairly high and the rupee continues to
depreciate.”  He predicts the yield on notes due in a decade will climb
to 9 percent “in the next couple of months.”  Betting Foreigners  Global investors are betting that India’s bond yields will
decline.  International funds raised their holdings of rupee-
denominated  notes  to a record $23.5 billion as of Dec. 7,
according to exchange data. Ownership has increased $1.8 billion
this quarter. Indian debt returned 5.8 percent in the past year,
the fifth-best performance among 10 Asian local-currency debt
markets monitored by HSBC Holdings Plc.  The cost of  protecting  the debt of  State Bank  of India
against non-payment using credit-default swaps rose five basis
points this month. Five-year contracts on the lender, viewed as
a proxy for the nation, cost 356 basis points today, compared
with 351 basis points at the end of November. The swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  India’s 10-year yields will slide to 8.35 percent by March,
according to Nomura Holdings,  Japan ’s biggest brokerage.  “The markets are adjusting ahead of an expected fall in
the inflation trajectory,” Vivek Rajpal, a Mumbai-based fixed-
income strategist at Nomura, said in an interview yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
V Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  