-- 
Zynga Is Said to Get Enough Orders to Cover All Shares in Planned IPO

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-12-08T17:48:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-08/zynga-said-to-receive-enough-orders-to-cover-all-100-million-shares-in-ipo.html
Zynga Inc., the biggest maker of
games on Facebook, received enough orders to cover all the
shares being sold in its initial public offering, said two
people with knowledge of the situation.  The people declined to be identified as the process is
private. Zynga plans to sell 100 million shares for $8.50 to $10
apiece, according to regulatory filings. The high end of that
price range would value San Francisco-based Zynga at $7 billion.  The IPO would be the largest by a U.S. Internet company
since that of Google Inc. in 2004. Filling the orders for
Zynga’s shares a few days into the roadshow is a good sign, said
 Lise Buyer , principal of the Class V Group, an IPO advisory firm
in  Palo Alto ,  California .  “They’re off to a promising start,” Buyer said. “But
it’s way too early to draw any conclusions because an indication
in the book is not a commitment. If the euro zone falls apart on
the 9th, all bets are off.”  Zynga is offering about 14 percent of its common stock, a
larger portion than companies including  Groupon Inc .,  LinkedIn
Corp ., and  Pandora Media Inc . have sold this year in their
public debuts. Morgan Stanley and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are
managing the offering, according to the filing.  Dani Dudeck, a spokeswoman for the company, declined to
comment, as did Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for New York-based
Morgan Stanley, and  Andrea Rachman , a spokeswoman for New York-
based Goldman Sachs.  Rival’s Valuation  Zynga plans to list under the symbol ZNGA on the Nasdaq
Stock Market. The IPO values Zynga at as much as 6.8 times
revenue in the year through Sept. 30, or more than three times
rival  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) ’s price relative to sales over the
same period.  The company, founded by Mark Pincus in 2007, makes games
such as FarmVille, CityVille and Mafia Wars, which are available
via  Facebook Inc . More than 90 percent of Zynga’s revenue comes
from the social-networking site, the most popular in the world.  Facebook itself is considering raising about $10 billion in
an IPO that would value the company at more than $100 billion, a
person with knowledge of the matter said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  