-- 
MTA Chief Walder Plans to Resign in October to Lead Hong Kong’s MTR Rail

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-07-21T22:11:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/mta-chief-jay-walder-resigns-to-lead-hong-kong-transity-operator-mtr-corp-.html
Jay Walder resigned today as
chairman and chief executive officer of  New York ’s  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority , the largest U.S. transit agency, to
head  MTR Corp. (66) , which runs the  Hong Kong  subway and other rail
lines.  Since becoming MTA CEO in October 2009, Walder, 52,
installed electronic signs in subway stations to notify riders
of approaching trains and replaced some outdated signal systems.  He also slashed 3,500 jobs and curbed overtime pay over 18
months to cut costs by $525 million. More funding pressure came
in March, when the state lowered its contribution to the MTA to
help balance its budget.  “In challenging times, we brought stability and
credibility to the MTA by making every dollar count, by
delivering long-overdue improvements and by refusing to settle
for business as usual,” Walder said in an MTA news release.  The MTA said Walder’s efficiency measures will yield $3.8
billion in cumulative savings by 2014, partly from renegotiating
contracts with suppliers and health-care providers, and by
consolidating functions of the MTA’s rail, bus and subway lines,
and several bridges and tunnels. The MTA, which had a $12.1
billion budget in the last fiscal year, will release its
preliminary budget next week.  Walder’s challenges included a $9 billion capital-budget
deficit that threatens to stall construction of the Second
Avenue subway on  Manhattan ’s Upper East Side and a rail link
from  Long Island  to Grand Central Terminal.  More Cuts  In a report July 20 on the five-year capital program,
Walder announced more cuts, including slashing administrative
payroll expenses by 15 percent and changes to how the agency
conducts track repairs. The moves will generate $4 billion in
savings, reducing the cost of the capital program to $24.2
billion, he said.  “He set a new course for the MTA during an extremely
difficult period when the agency was not given the resources
required to meet the city’s needs,” Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
said in a statement. “He is the type of person we can’t afford
to lose.”  Walder, who grew up in the Rockaways section of Queens,
worked for the MTA for 12 years starting in 1983. He was
executive director and chief financial officer from 1993 to 1995
before leaving to head  London ’s transit system, where he was
credited with spearheading its largest investment since World
War II. He returned to the MTA in 2009.  Public Company  Walder’s resignation will be effective Oct. 21, and he will
assume his position as MTR’s CEO Jan. 1. The publicly traded
company 76 percent-owned by the Hong Kong government operates
commuter and rail systems linking Hong Kong with Shanghai and
Beijing and provides train service in London, Stockholm and
 Melbourne .  It began a worldwide search for a new leader after CEO Chow
Chung Kong, 60, said in December he would retire at the end of
this year, when his contract expires.  “Jay Walder has shown true leadership at the helm of the
MTA and been a fiscally responsible manager during these
difficult financial times,” New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said
in a statement.”  In a July 19 interview at a conference sponsored by Crain’s
New York Business magazine on  New York City ’s future, Walder
dismissed reports he might quit. He told reporters he had “no
intention of leaving” and would remain in 2012.  Walder’s spokesman, Jeremy Soffin, said today the MTA
chairman didn’t want to answer the question honestly out of
concern his departure would be revealed prematurely.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent, Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story: Henry Goldman at 
   hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 