-- 
ABB Says Outlook Favorable as Atomic Exit Helps Grid Demand

-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-07-21T11:11:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/abb-second-quarter-profit-rises-43-on-robots-motors-demand.html
ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s largest maker
of power-transmission gear, predicted “favorable” demand as a
shift away from nuclear power boosts the need for transmission
equipment that integrates renewable energy into grids.  New orders in the second quarter jumped 29 percent to $9.87
billion, Zurich-based ABB said today. That beat the $9.59
billion median estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
ABB fell as much as 2.8 percent in Zurich as a higher proportion
of lower-margin automation orders and rising silver prices hurt
profitability.  ABB’s outlook contrasts with that of German rival Siemens
AG, which said last month growth will be tougher to achieve in
the second half as the stimulus from an economic rebound peters
out. ABB Chief Executive Officer  Joe Hogan  plans to accelerate
growth with additional acquisitions after spending more than
$5.2 billion on purchases in the last 12 months.  “We continue to expect strong demand for productivity and
energy efficiency solutions in industry and a recovery in power
transmission demand in the second half of the year,” Hogan said
in today’s statement. Acquisitions made a “solid contribution”
to earnings, the company said.  Shares Decline  ABB shares declined as much as 64 centimes to 20.11 Swiss
francs and traded at 20.3 Swiss francs as of 12:56 p.m. The
stock has lost 3.1 percent this year for a market value of 46.6
billion francs ($56.7 billion).  “There was disappointment around margins in the automation
business,” said Michael Hagmann, an analyst at Nomura, who has
a “neutral” rating on the stock. “Some of these issues will
wash out in the next couple of quarters. They worked through a
lot of lower-margin orders.”  Hogan plans a series of price increases to counter pressure
from rising raw-material costs, he said on a conference call
today. The company has already announced two price increases and
a surcharge related to silver, he said.  “Those will go through and we are confident we can get a
significant portion of the costs back,” Hogan said on the call.
“There is commodity pressure and silver just skyrocketed on us.
We’re working on that.”  Germany ’s government has decided to retreat from atomic
power production by 2022 after an accident in March at  Japan ’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in March. The decision will require
additional investments in the  power grid  as the country relies
more on renewable energy sources such as wind and solar power
that are more spread out across the country.  Robot Demand  Quarterly net income at ABB increased 43 percent to $893
million, beating a $866 million estimate. Sales rose 17 percent
to $9.68 billion, also beating the average estimate of $9.18
billion. Operational earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization gained 22 percent to $1.55 billion.  In the three months ending June, the company won a $165
million contract to supply transformers in  China  and a $151
million order to build a natural gas compression station and
treatment plant in the Republic of Congo. So-called base orders,
which form the bulk of new business at ABB, rose 18 percent in
the quarter and rose at all units, ABB said.  “Customer investments aimed at increasing operational
efficiency translated into strong demand for robots, energy-
efficient motors and low-voltage systems in the second
quarter,” the company said.  ABB agreed earlier this month to buy Lorentzen & Wettre, a
maker of equipment for the pulp and paper industry, as well as
specialty transformer maker Trasfor Group.  Siemens predicted sales from the quarter that ended June 30
won’t increase from the preceding three months, while adjusted
net income will advance “slightly.” The renewable-energy unit
is missing company targets, Chief Financial Officer Joe Kaeser
said on June 28. The Munich-based company reports quarterly
earnings next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  