-- 
Actelion Expects Tracleer Competition, Has Quarterly Loss

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-07-21T11:09:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/actelion-reports-second-quarter-loss-exceeding-analyst-estimates.html
Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest
biotechnology company, reported a wider loss than analysts
expected and said a rival treatment is increasing competition
for its top-selling drug Tracleer.  The second-quarter loss was 408.6 million Swiss francs
($497 million), the Allschwil-based company said in a  statement 
today. The average of seven analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg was 340.9 million francs. The loss is a result of
damages from a lawsuit and as the strong franc reduced the value
of sales from outside Switzerland, Actelion said.  Sales of the lung medicine Tracleer are starting to lose
ground to  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s rival treatment Letairis,
Actelion said. U.S. regulators in March allowed the  Foster City ,
California-based company to remove a warning that required
patients taking Letairis to get monthly liver tests.  “It will certainly affect growth rates going forward,”
Chief Financial Officer Andrew Oakley said in a phone interview.  Actelion, whose shareholders approved a 800 million-franc
stock repurchase program in May, rose 2 percent to 41.05 Swiss
francs in Zurich trading as of 12:19 p.m. local time, the most
in two weeks. The stock had dropped 21 percent this year before
today.  Tracleer Sales  Some analysts may have used outdated foreign exchange
levels in their forecasts, producing a misleading consensus
estimate, Peter Welford, an analyst with Jefferies International
Ltd. in  London , said by phone today.  “Results were very much as expected,” Welford said. That,
combined with the share buyback starting again, "warrants a bit
of a rally.’’  Sales of Tracleer were 789.2 million francs in the first
half, a decrease of 5.5 percent from a year earlier. Measured in
local currencies, revenue from the treatment rose 8 percent.  Actelion booked a one-time charge of $577 million last
month after a California jury awarded Tokyo-based Asahi Kasei
Pharma Corp. the same amount in damages. The Swiss company said
it will likely record a full-year loss because of the charge.  Asahi Kasei had claimed Actelion acquired CoTherix Inc. in
2007 to halt work on its fasudil lung drug and eliminate a
potential competitor for Tracleer. Before the acquisition,
CoTherix was developing fasudil with Asahi Kasei. Actelion said
it plans to appeal the ruling.  Sales Slowdown  Second-quarter sales fell 16 percent to 441.7 million
francs. The company said it gets 99 percent of product sales in
foreign currencies and has half its operating costs in francs.
Switzerland’s currency rose 9.4 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
in the period.  Product sales rose 8 percent in the second quarter on a
constant-currency basis, slowing from 11 percent in the first
quarter.  The slowdown “could change the perception of the stock as
a growth stock,” Sebastien Malafosse, a health-care analyst at
Bryan Garnier & Co. wrote in a note to investors today. He
maintained his “sell” recommendation on the shares.  Actelion is “confident” it will meet its forecast for
2010 product sales growth in the “mid-single digits” based on
local currencies, it said in today’s statement.  The company is betting on an experimental successor to
Tracleer, called macitentan, to bolster earnings when its main
product begins to lose patent protection starting in 2015.
Results from a late-stage trial of macitentan are due to be
released in early 2012, the drugmaker said today.  Clinical Trial Setbacks  Tracleer has dominated the market for  pulmonary arterial
hypertension  since it was approved in 2001. The condition causes
high  blood pressure  in the artery that moves blood from the
heart to the lungs and can be fatal.  Actelion’s efforts to reduce its reliance on Tracleer have
faltered after several clinical trial setbacks. The drug failed
a test to widen its use last year, while another treatment,
clazosentan, didn’t help patients who had suffered from bleeding
in the brain, according to a study. Actelion and GlaxoSmithKline
Plc stopped late-stage development in January of almorexant, an
experimental insomnia pill, because of concerns patients
wouldn’t be able to tolerate the medicine.  Always Pursuing Acquisitions  The company is “always pursuing” opportunities to acquire
other companies or license products, though “nothing is
imminent,” Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Clozel said in a
telephone interview.  Elliott Advisors (UK) Ltd., which owns a stake in Actelion,
failed in May to oust Clozel from the company’s board and
replace other directors. The hedge fund said Clozel had too many
executives reporting to him, was spending too much on research
and development, and failed to consider strategic options,
including a sale of the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  