-- 
Most German Stocks Gain; Benchmark DAX Index On Course for Weekly Advance

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-07-22T15:56:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/adidas-roth-rau-solarhybrid-may-move-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks advanced for a fourth
day, with the benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  posting a weekly gain, after
euro-area leaders announced a new aid package for Greece and
measures to protect Spain and  Italy  from higher bond yields.  Adidas AG (ADS)  surged 3.5 percent after Chief Executive Officer
Herbert Hainer said the company will have “high single-digit”
revenue growth in 2011. Volkswagen AG and Porsche SE led
European carmakers higher.  The DAX rose 0.5 percent to 7,326.39 at the 5:30 p.m. close
in Frankfurt. The gauge climbed 1.5 percent this week amid
optimism that European officials will contain the region’s debt
crisis. The measure has still slipped 2.7 percent since its high
this year on May 2. The broader HDAX Index also increased 0.5
percent today.  “Markets have welcomed the long-expected new aid package
for  Greece ,” said Anita Paluch, a sales trader at ETX Capital
in  London . “This latest decision to contain the 21-month long
debt crisis that threatened to spread to Italy and Spain is
however just one of many steps on the path of stability and
further efforts are needed to improve the situation in the  euro
zone .”  After eight hours of talks in Brussels, the euro area’s
leaders announced 159 billion euros ($228 billion) of new aid
for Greece late yesterday. They also cajoled bondholders into
footing part of the bill and empowered the European Union’s 440-
billion euro rescue fund to buy the debt of stressed euro
nations after a market rout last week sparked concern the crisis
was spreading to  Spain  and Italy. The fund can also aid troubled
banks and offer credit-lines to repel speculators.  Bond Guarantees  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
the ECB may accept Greek collateral if the country defaults
because euro-area states have agreed to provide guarantees.
Trichet said heads of government had agreed to back as much as
35 billion euros of Greek bonds in refinancing operations.   Adidas, the world’s second-largest sporting-goods maker,
jumped 3.5 percent to 54.96 euros as the company’s CEO rejected
“rumors” of a slowdown in second-quarter sales.  “I heard this rumor and honestly don’t know where it’s
coming from,” Hainer said in an interview in  Buenos Aires . “We
definitely confirm fully our guidance. We have said high single-
digit revenue growth, net income growth of 10 to 15 percent and
you have seen that our first-quarter confirms this already.”  Deutsche Bank raised its recommendation on the stock to
“buy” from “hold.”  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s largest carmaker, soared 2.6
percent to 148.80 euros, while Porsche SE advanced 2 percent to
57.30 euros. Carmakers were among the best performers in Europe
today.  Lufthansa Rises  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s second-largest airline,
advanced 1.2 percent to 14.63 euros, its highest price in two
weeks. EasyJet Plc said annual profit will beat analysts’
estimates after the discount carrier boosted fares by luring 20
percent more business flyers in the third quarter.  A report today showed that German business confidence
declined to the lowest level in nine months in July as the
European debt crisis and weakening global demand damped the
economic outlook.  The Ifo institute’s business climate index, based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to 112.9 from 114.5 in June.
That compared with the median forecast of 42 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey for a reading of 113.7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  