-- 
Madoff Trustee Faces Mass Bids to Dismiss Suits, Lawyer Says

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-07-21T19:29:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/madoff-trustee-faces-mass-bids-to-dismiss-suits-lawyer-says.html
The liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s
firm, who has filed “hundreds” of lawsuits demanding return of
so-called fictitious profits made in the  Ponzi scheme , faces
mass bids by investors to dismiss the cases, a lawyer said.  Trustee Irving Picard has been conferring with lawyers
since January on so-called omnibus procedures for handling the
motions to dismiss, lawyer Jonathan Landers, who represents a
Madoff investor, said.  “Lawyers for customers want to be heard at the same
time,” Landers said in a phone interview today. “A group will
formulate common issues, and there will be common deadlines for
filing papers in bankruptcy court.”  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The large-scale moves to dismiss “clawback” suits will be
another test for Picard, whose right to sue is separately being
challenged in district court by banks such as  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and by investors including the owners of the New York Mets
baseball team.  Landers’s client, Gerald Blumenthal, in June asked U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff to decide whether the trustee had a
right to sue innocent investors. Other Madoff customers have
joined his request.  Picard sued Blumenthal in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
 Manhattan  to recover $1.6 million in withdrawals made over six
years from a retirement account he had with Madoff, plus $1.7
million used to open the account in 1997, according to the June
filing.  A higher court should decide if the trustee should be
trying to take money from brokerage customers who didn’t know
about the fraud, using laws written to protect those customers,
Blumenthal said in the filing.  The case is Picard v. Blumenthal, 11-cv-04293, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  