-- 
Ailing U.S. Economy Seeks Jobs Doc With Magic Rx: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-07-21T23:00:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/ailing-u-s-economy-seeks-jobs-doc-with-magic-rx-caroline-baum.html
Looking beyond the debt-limit
shenanigans preoccupying  Washington , the big issue for the  U.S.
economy  is long-term unemployment and what to do about it.  President  Barack Obama  is always hawking some kind of jobs
plan, whether it’s training more engineers, enticing businesses
with short-term hiring incentives or creating yet another
commission to study the issue.  On the Republican side, House Speaker  John Boehner  is fond
of beginning his press statements with the question, “Where are
the jobs?” The implication is that the GOP has a better jobs
plan than the president’s $830 billion fiscal stimulus. (There
are 1.3 million fewer private-sector workers today than when the
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act was passed in February
2009.)  It’s not just politicians who are touting plans to create
jobs. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has a clean-energy  jobs plan .
Time Magazine’s Fareed Zakaria has the key to  job creation.  And
every left-leaning think tank has a multiple-point jobs plan at
the ready, just in case anyone asks.  No wonder McKinsey & Co. is getting into the act. The
premiere management consultant asked researchers, policy makers,
executives and journalists to identify the single most important
step the U.S. should take to create more jobs, and published the
responses as a series of  short essays .  Every time I hear that question, or listen to a politician
talk about a jobs plan, or read an accusation by one party that
the other party has none, I wince. Since when is it government’s
job to create jobs?  Outplacement Service  No one looks to the government to generate more workers
when the unemployment rate is low and job openings are hard to
fill. Yet when unemployment rises, the government is supposed to
act as an outplacement service.  Simply put, the government’s role is to create an
environment for  job creation . The private sector does the rest.  The very act of asking what government can do creates the
illusion that there is some secret formula for putting the 14
million unemployed Americans back to work. We know the
diagnosis; all we need is the right jobs doctor to prescribe the
appropriate cure.  McKinsey’s respondents offered solutions that were
conventional (reduce the corporate  tax rate , eliminate
burdensome regulations on business); unconventional (paint black
roofs white so that they absorb less heat, thereby reducing
energy consumption and utility bills); ill-advised (pay
employers to hire, create more inflation); and bordering on the
touchy-feely (show more empathy for the unemployed).  I was relieved to see one respondent suggest that the
single  most important step  the government should take to create
jobs was “lose the illusion of government job creation.”  Schizophrenic Relationship  There. He said it. Get out of the way, which is what  Ayn Rand ’s hero, John Galt, tells the desperate bureaucrats in
“ Atlas Shrugged ” as they struggle to find someone with a plan to
avert a national economic collapse.  This medicine is very hard for Americans to swallow, but
the truth is, we can’t have it both ways. We want an arms-length
relationship with the government in good times. In bad times,
the cries go out to “do something,” even if it’s pay us to do
nothing. We want a free-market economy during expansions, a
nanny state in periods of recession. Privatized profits during
the boom, socialized losses during the bust.  The idea of some kind of New Deal II to put people back to
work is both impractical and implausible. Impractical, because
the U.S. government is broke. Even Democrats now seem more
interested in  deficit reduction  than additional stimulus.
Implausible, because the president himself was forced to own up
to the failures of Stimulus I.  Misplaced Expectations  Following a staged tour of a North Carolina manufacturer of
energy-efficient lighting and an on-site meeting with his
council on jobs and competitiveness last month, Obama was asked
whether he was aware of the red tape that delayed road and
bridge projects financed by the recovery act.  “Shovel-ready was not as shovel-ready as we expected,”
Obama joked.  But it was no joke. If central planning were the solution,
the  Soviet Union  would still be in business.  Even the idea of looking to government -- to the same folks
who can’t put partisan bickering aside to do what’s right for
the country -- to solve our unemployment problem is downright
laughable. The last place you would go for a timely, efficient
solution is the halls of Congress, where lawmakers are still
dithering even as the government’s borrowing authority is set to
expire on Aug. 2.  Plouffe’s Prism  It’s understandable that the president and Congress want to
put people back to work, even if it entails digging holes and
filling them in again. Voters tend to hold the party in power
accountable for a lousy economy and high unemployment,  David Plouffe ’s assertions to the contrary notwithstanding.  Plouffe, the president’s top political adviser, said
earlier this month that the average American “does not view the
economy through the prism of GDP or unemployment rates or even
monthly jobs numbers.”  Right. Tell that to  Jimmy Carter  and  George H.W. Bush .  More important to voters, Plouffe said, is how they feel
about their own situation now and in the future.  Has he looked recently at consumer confidence indexes,
which are at recession-like levels? If that’s the prism through
which voters will view the economy in November 2012, Plouffe had
better hope for a few jobs to complement all the jobs plans.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more Bloomberg View columns.  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 