-- 
Takeda’s Actos Drug Needs New Cancer-Risk Warning, EMA Says

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 
2011-07-21T15:47:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/takeda-s-actos-drug-needs-new-cancer-risk-warning-ema-says-1-.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.’s Actos
diabetes drug may be kept on the market with new warnings, the
European Medicines Agency said after reviewing research showing
the drug carried a slightly increased risk of bladder cancer.  The benefits of pioglitazone, the active ingredient in
Actos and other diabetes treatments, outweigh its risks “in a
limited population of Type 2 diabetics,” the London-based
agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use said
today in a statement on its  website .  “These medicines remain a valid treatment option for
certain patients with type 2 diabetes,” though there is a small
increased risk of bladder cancer, the EMA said. The risk could
be reduced by “appropriate patient selection and exclusion,”
including regular reviews of how well the drug is working for
individual patients, the agency said.  The EMA’s backing supports the decision made by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration that Actos wasn’t linked to an
overall increased cancer risk in all patients who took it. Actos
had sales of 387.9 billion yen ($5 billion) in the last fiscal
year, accounting for 27 percent of revenue. That makes it the
best-selling product for  Osaka , Japan-based Takeda,  Asia ’s
largest drugmaker.  EMA Review  The EMA has been reviewing the possible cancer risk of
Actos and other medicines containing pioglitazone since March.
 France ’s drug regulator in June said it would pull Actos from
the market, and its counterpart in  Germany  recommended that the
EMA suspend marketing approval for the diabetes medicine
throughout the 27-nation European Union.  Takeda shares rose 0.1 percent to 3,715 yen in Tokyo
trading today before the announcement, while the benchmark Topix
Index was little changed.  Actos became the world’s biggest-selling diabetes drug
after a 2007 study linked rival pill Avandia, sold by London-
based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , to a higher chance of heart attacks.
The EMA in September suspended sales of Avandia, while the U.S.
regulator decided the medicine could continue to be sold with
new warnings.  The results of a French study showed the diabetes medicine
carried a slightly increased risk of bladder cancer, prompting
the regulator to order its withdrawal on June 9. The
epidemiological study, conducted by the French health insurer,
followed patients taking the medicine between 2006 and 2009.  A five-year analysis from a decade-long company-sponsored
study of Takeda’s Actos showed an increased risk of bladder
cancer in patients who took the drug for the longest periods of
time, and at the highest cumulative doses, the FDA said on June
15. The medicine wasn’t linked to an overall increased cancer
risk in all patients who took it, the agency said. The FDA had
required the study under new guidelines for diabetes drug
approvals.  Takeda has said it is working with the FDA to update the
drug’s prescribing information.  Actos had shown a potential risk of bladder cancer in
earlier studies on rats and humans. Takeda won FDA approval of
the treatment in 1999 and agreed to conduct the 10-year study to
assess that risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  