-- 
Alabama County Commissioners Said to Discuss Bankruptcy Filing

-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-07-21T19:27:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/alabama-county-commissioners-said-to-discuss-bankruptcy-filing.html
Jefferson County commissioners are
meeting today with lawyers to discuss bankruptcy, according to a
county staff member with direct knowledge of the talks.  Officials of the Alabama county are considering hiring
Kenneth Klee, according to the person, who asked for anonymity
because the discussions are private. Klee represented Orange
County,  California , in its 1994 bankruptcy, which was the
largest municipal filing. Commissioners are also meeting with
Jeffrey Cohen, a Denver-based lawyer with Patton Boggs LLP, the
person said.  A bankruptcy filing isn’t imminent, Klee said in an
interview after the meeting in Birmingham. The county should
continue to pursue a negotiated settlement until its reserve is
spent, he said.  “A good settlement bargained in the shadow of Chapter 9 is
best for the county,” said Klee, referring to the section of
the U.S. bankruptcy code that governs municipal bankruptcy.  A filing by Jefferson County, whose creditors hold more
than $4 billion in bonds, would break Orange County’s record.  The county, home to Birmingham, the state’s largest city,
has spent more than three years in fiscal distress after a $3
billion sewer-bond refinancing collapsed during the credit
crisis. Its woes were compounded when the Legislature refused to
act after a court struck down an occupational tax in March.  Heading to Court  Before today’s meeting, Commissioner Sandra Little Brown
put the odds of bankruptcy as 80 percent.  “We’re at the end of our rope and have exhausted all our
options,” she said. She didn’t comment after the meeting.  Cohen declined to comment when reached by telephone.  Last month, the county, creditors led by  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , and a court-appointed receiver agreed to a 30-day respite
to pursue a settlement to the debt crisis. Governor Robert Bentley said he would help broker a deal.  The county has proposed cutting the amount of debt it must
repay to about $2 billion and agreeing to sewer-rate revenue
increases of 8 percent for the next three years. The state would
create a public utility to issue new bonds backed by sewer
revenue and enhance the creditworthiness of the debt.  Previously, holders of the sewer debt and companies that
insure the bonds proposed the county issue as much as $2.4
billion in refinancing bonds and raise sewer revenue more than
25 percent for at least three years.  JPMorgan had no comment,  Justin Perras , a spokesman, said
in an e-mail.  Debt Lives On  The county’s debt might be reduced in a Chapter 9
bankruptcy, not wiped away, said Matt Fabian, a managing
director of Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market
Advisors.  “Hopefully, the bankruptcy attorneys will help the council
understand that Chapter 9 doesn’t provide the kind of debt
relief that they may think it provides; education is a good
thing,” Fabian said in an e-mail.  A Jefferson County bankruptcy probably wouldn’t cause a
systemic disruption of the $2.9 trillion municipal market,
Fabian said.  “Probably half the muni market thinks Jeffco is already in
bankruptcy,” Fabian said.  Even if the debt is restructured, the county still must
balance its budget without the occupational tax, which generated
about $75 million annually, Fabian said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  