-- 
Malawi President Mutharika Moves to Calm Protesters After Deaths in Riots

-- B y   F r a n k   J o m o
-- 
2011-07-21T17:44:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/malawi-s-president-mutharika-says-prepared-to-hold-talks-with-protesters.html
Malawi’s President Bingu wa Mutharika said he is prepared to hold talks with civil-society
groups and opposition parties that led anti-government protests
in which at least 10 people died.  “It is wrong to go in the streets and demonstrate, instead
let us dialog and work out a solution for these problems,”
Mutharika said in a speech broadcast on the state-owned Malawi
Broadcasting Corp.  Mutharika didn’t respond to a list of demands from the
protesters and warned the government will act against the
leaders of the demonstrations if there is looting.  Police fired tear gas to disperse tens of thousands of
demonstrators in the southern African nation’s commercial
capital, Blantyre, yesterday. Ten people died in clashes with
police in Mzuzu, the third biggest city, located in the northern
region of the country, Henry Chimbali, the spokesman for the
health ministry, said by phone. People burned tires and looted
shops in the capital, Lilongwe, today, the independent MIJ FM
reported. The death toll has risen to 18, Reuters reported that
the death toll has risen to 18, citing a later interview with
Chimbali.  Groups, including the Institute of Policy Interaction, the
Malawi Law Society and the Council of Churches, and opposition
parties organized protests against state policies and a
continuing shortage of fuel and foreign currency.  Go Home  The U.K. cut aid to Malawi, the world’s biggest producer of
the burley variety of tobacco, and is reviewing relations with
the country after Mutharika deported its envoy for criticizing
him in a leaked cable. A shortage of foreign exchange, partly
due to lower exports of tobacco has led to recurrent fuel
shortages for the last year.  The protest was meant to be for one day, Undule
Mwakasungula, an official from the Centre for Human Rights and
Rehabilitation said in a statement read on Zodiak Broadcasting
Station today.  “Let us go home and wait for the president to respond to
our demands,” he said.  The government plans to take over the importation of motor
fuel to help ease shortages, Mutharika said in a speech on
national television yesterday.  “The ongoing violence and reprisals by elements connected
to President Mutharika’s  Democratic Progressive Party  underline
the concern the U.K. has expressed about the state of democratic
governance and human rights in Malawi,” Henry Bellingham, the
U.K.’s Minister for  Africa , said in an e-mailed statement.
“This situation is extremely worrying.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Jomo in Blantyre at 
 fjomo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  