-- 
Halfords Falls as Customers Cut Spending on Car Maintenance

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-07-21T15:57:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/halfords-declines-as-customers-cut-spending-on-car-maintenance.html
Halfords Group Plc (HFD) , a U.K. seller of
car parts and bicycles, declined to the lowest in almost two
years in London trading after saying motorists were spending
less on doing up their cars.  Halfords fell 15.7 pence, or 4.4 percent, to 341.5 pence,
the lowest since September 2009 and the biggest fall in six
weeks, giving the Redditch, England-based company a market value
of 695 million pounds ($1.13 billion).  Car enhancement revenue for the 13 weeks ended July 1
dropped 10 percent, with auto maintenance sales down 2.2
percent, Halfords said in a statement today. Rising fuel costs
and declining consumer confidence are leading to motorists
deferring servicing their vehicles and cutting expenditure on
items such as satellite-navigation devices.  “We are positioned to cope with the new reality,” Chief
Executive Officer David Wild said on a conference call. “It is
inevitable customers will look for ways to save money.” Tire
sales are down 11 percent in the U.K. this year, Wild said.  Gross margins will fall at least 100 basis points this year
as it focuses more on sales, Halfords said. That compared with
previous guidance of a drop of at least 30 basis points, Wild
said. Gross margins would fall to about 53 percent, he said.  “We have to be more agile than we have been in the past,”
Wild said. “We have to drive the business harder to grow
profit.”  Sales at stores open at least a year rose 12 percent in the
period. Same-store sales at its rebranded car-servicing centers
rose 2.1 percent as the company said it increased market share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 