-- 
Mallesons Said to Be in Talks to Tie Up With Chinese Law Firm King & Wood

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-07-21T09:21:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/mallesons-said-to-be-in-talks-to-tie-up-with-chinese-law-firm-king-wood.html
Mallesons Stephen Jaques, the
Australian  law firm  with the highest profit per partner, is in
talks to form an alliance with Beijing-based King & Wood, two
people familiar with the discussions said.  The two firms may combine some operations under a so-called
verein structure, which allows for central management of
functions such as technology and marketing, while maintaining
separate finances, according to the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks aren’t public.  Mallesons, with about 1,000 legal staff, is seeking an
international partner after U.K. firms like  Allen & Overy  LLP
entered the Australian market.  King & Wood , founded in 1993, has
hired partners from U.K. firms like Clifford Chance LLP to
challenge them for business in  Hong Kong , where companies have
raised $15.3 billion in initial share offerings this year.  “We’ve been looking for a suitable link or alliance for a
number of years,” Sue Ashe, a spokeswoman for Sydney-based
Mallesons, said in a phone interview. “We’re exploring a number
of different options including” talking with firms in the U.S.,
the U.K. and  Asia , she said.  Ashe declined to identify the firms.  Mallesons considered a tie-up with Clifford Chance before
the 2008 global recession scuttled those plans, Robert Milliner,
chief executive partner, said in an interview last year. The
 London  firm entered Australia this year by merging with firms in
Sydney and Perth.  Collaboration, Independence  King & Wood Managing Partner Wang Ling said in an e-mail
that the Chinese firm is always in discussion with international
firms for various types of collaboration.  “At the same time, the firm’s intention is to keep its
independence,” she said.  Washington-based Hogan & Hartson LLP used a verein for its
merger last year with Lovells LLP and London-based Norton Rose
LLP also used a verein for its combination with Deacons
 Australia , which assumed its British partner’s name.  “Mergers between major firms across the Asia-Pacific
region make perfect sense,” said Richard Tromans of London-
based  Jomati Consultants . “While U.K. and U.S. firms have been
debating mergers for many years, this is not the only important
axis of global business today,” he said.  King & Wood, with about 880 legal professionals, including
lawyers and patent attorneys, has advised on initial public
offerings in Hong Kong including  Shanghai  Pharmaceuticals
Holding’s HK$15.3 billion ($2 billion) sale in May.  Light Years Behind?  The firm is ‘light years behind’ the international rivals
it aspires to resemble, according to Rupert Li, its
international managing partner. Li, who joined King & Wood from
 Clifford Chance , made the comments in an interview last year.  China restricts foreign lawyers from practicing domestic
law and bars international law firms from hiring Chinese lawyers
to practice local law.  King & Wood has offices in 16 cities including  New York  and
 Tokyo . In 2007, it entered into an alliance with Australia’s
Gilbert & Tobin, the first of its kind between King & Wood and a
western law firm, according to the Australian  firm’s website .  Gilbert & Tobin Managing Partner Danny Gilbert didn’t
respond to a request for comment left with his office.  Mallesons’ offices outside Australia are in London, Hong
Kong, Beijing and Shanghai. Profit per equity partner at
Mallesons rose by 7 percent to $1.72 million, according to a
2010/11 ranking by  Legal Business , a U.K trade publication.  ‘Generational Opportunity’  Stuart Fuller, Mallesons managing partner, has been
advocating closer ties between Australia and  China , most
recently speaking on the issue at the Boao Forum on Energy,
Resources and  Sustainable Development  in Perth last week.  “We need a deeper, more long-term relationship with
Chinese investors,” he told the conference. “We have a once-
in-a-generation opportunity to recast our trading relationship
with China. Let’s not be timid,” he said.  Australia produces a fifth of the world’s iron ore and 6
percent of the world’s supply of gold, and the state of
Queensland produces half of the global seaborne supply of coking
coal used in steelmaking.  A stronger Australian dollar and rising mergers-and-
acquisitions activity have attracted top-grossing U.K. law firms,
Clifford Chance and Allen & Overy, to open Australia practices
since 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  