-- 
Tallest U.S. Tower Proposed as Part of Chicago Development

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-07-21T22:36:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/tallest-u-s-tower-proposed-as-part-of-3-5-billion-development-in-chicago.html
International Property Developers 
announced plans to build a $3.5 billion office, residential,
hotel and retail project in downtown Chicago, including a 120-
story tower that would be the tallest in the U.S.  The closely held company, led by Monaco-based investor Bill
Davies, filed a proposal for the development with city planners
today. The tower, at about 2,000 feet (610 meters), would be
taller than both the 1,729-foot Willis Tower, formerly known as
 Sears Tower , near the site of the planned development, and the
1,776-foot 1 World Trade Center being built in  New York .  “It’s an incredible site,” said Martin Mulryan, the
project manager on the development for International Property.
“There’s no other opportunity like this in the U.S.”  Commercial real estate construction declined in  Chicago 
during the U.S. recession. International Property’s proposed
project would be the biggest in a part of downtown with little
new development.  The project, planned for 20 acres (8 hectares) on the banks
of the Chicago River in the southwest area of downtown, would be
built in phases over 10 years. The first phase would include
transforming the former Chicago  Main Post Office  Building into a
retail and entertainment center. International Property bought
the postal facility, once the biggest of its kind in the world,
for about $25 million in 2009.  The first phase also includes a 40-story hotel. A second
phase would include the 120-story tower, which would have
offices, a hotel and residential units, Mulryan said. A third
phase would include two 60-story residential buildings.  ‘Hard to Understand’  The plan for the tallest building would make more sense in
cities where land is more expensive such as New York, said
Richard Green, director of the Lusk Center for Real Estate at
the University of  Southern California . Making such skyscrapers
work financially is difficult, he said.  “It just doesn’t make a lot of sense,” Green said. “It’s
hard to understand why anyone would want to build the tallest
building.”  Mulryan said the first phase of the project may cost up to
$450 million. Davies has options on adjacent properties for the
development, Mulryan said. Financing for the total project will
be from investors, and International Property isn’t planning to
take on “major debt” for the project, he said.  Five years ago, Dublin-based Shelbourne Development Ltd.
planned to build a 2,000-foot residential tower in Chicago. The
project stalled amid the recession and housing slump. Late last
year, a lender on the project received approval from a Cook
County judge to appoint a receiver for the property, according
to the  Chicago Tribune . The parcel is at the mouth of the
Chicago River on the shore of  Lake Michigan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 