-- 
AMD Gains After Sales Forecast Beats Estimates on New Chips

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-07-22T20:18:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/amd-reports-second-quarter-profit-that-tops-analyst-estimates-on-new-chips.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , the
second-largest maker of processors for personal computers, rose
the most in more than 20 months after forecasting third-quarter
sales that exceeded analysts’ estimates, citing new chip orders.  Revenue in the current period will increase 10 percent,
plus or minus 2 percentage points, from the second quarter,
Sunnyvale, California-based AMD said yesterday. That indicates
sales of as much as $1.76 billion. Analysts were estimating $1.7
billion, the average forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Since Chief Executive Officer Dirk Meyer resigned in
January, the company has been searching for a replacement to
lead an effort against rival  Intel Corp. (INTC)  AMD’s new products,
called Fusion, combine the functions of processors and graphics
chips, aiming to win laptop market share. Analysts had been
predicting a smaller sales gain amid evidence of lower consumer
PC demand in developed markets.  “It’s a pretty good guide in a weak consumer PC market,”
said Sujeeva De Silva, a San Francisco-based analyst at
ThinkEquity LLC. “Fusion has done pretty well out of the gate.
The success is showing.”  The shares rose $1.25, or 19 percent, to $7.75 at 4 p.m. on
the New York Stock Exchange, for the biggest gain since November
2009. The stock had declined 21 percent this year before today.  Revenue Forecasts  AMD’s third-quarter forecast for as much as 12 percent
sequential sales growth compares with an average analyst
prediction of 8 percent, and is larger than the percentage
growth at the midpoint of Intel’s revenue forecast for the
period, said De Silva, who recommends buying AMD shares.  Second-quarter net income was $61 million, or 8 cents a
share, compared with a loss of $43 million, or 6 cents, a year
earlier, AMD said yesterday in a statement. Analysts had
predicted profit of 7 cents, the average estimate in a Bloomberg
survey. Sales fell 4.8 percent to $1.57 billion.  Revenue dropped because of slower demand for server chips,
Chief Financial Officer Thomas Seifert said on a conference call
yesterday. Gross margin, or the percentage of revenue remaining
after deducting the costs of production, was 46 percent.  ‘Top Priority’  Seifert is running AMD while the company looks for a
successor to Meyer, who left after a dispute with the board over
how quickly the company will be able to get into the market for
mobile-phone and tablet-computer chips. AMD said yesterday it
plans to have a processor for tablets in 2013.  “The search for a new CEO remains a top priority,” said
Harry Wolin, AMD senior vice president and general counsel, on
the conference call. “Meeting a timeline is not the driving
force for the search. Finding the right candidate is.”  Wolin declined to say whether the company will be able to
name a new leader this quarter.  Seifert has said he doesn’t want the top position
permanently. The company was conducting a second round of
interviews with a number of candidates, two people with
knowledge of the hiring process said earlier this week.  People familiar with the search said last month that AMD
had approached and been rebuffed by at least four candidates.
Apple Inc. Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook , Oracle Corp. Co-
President  Mark Hurd , EMC Corp. Chief Operating Officer Pat Gelsinger and Carlyle Group Managing Director Greg Summe spurned
the chipmaker’s overtures, the people said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 