-- 
Ampere Equity Fund Buys Two Aldesa Wind Farms in Southern Spain

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-07-21T11:40:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/ampere-equity-fund-buys-two-aldesa-wind-farms-in-southern-spain.html
Ampere Equity Fund, the Dutch
renewable energy investor managed by a Triodos Bank NV unit,
bought two early stage wind parks in  Spain  developed by a unit
of Aldesa Construcciones SA, a Spanish construction company.  “We have bought 100 percent of the ownership but at the
same time Aldesa Construcciones remains responsible for their
construction and management,” Joris van der Geest, chief
investment officer of Ampere Equity Fund, said today by
telephone. He declined to disclose the purchase price.  The approved sites in Murcia and Andalucia will have a
total capacity of 80 megawatts when built. Prices for permitted
wind farms yet to be constructed rose 25 percent to 172,000
euros ($244,000) a megawatt last year because of competition to
secure good wind sites, particularly in  Europe , according to the
London-based analyst Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Ampere Equity Fund and Aldesa negotiated and closed senior
debt financing for the projects with a syndicate of banks
comprising  Banco Espanol de Credito SA (BTO) , Bankia SAU, Caixabank,
 Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and WestLB AG at the same time it completed
the acquisition, van der Geest said. He declined to disclose
loan terms except to say they were “in line with the current
market standards.”  The parks were developed to date by Aldesa Energias
Renovables and will use windmills made by Gamesa Corporacion
Tecnologica SA, Spain’s largest turbine maker. They will be
connected to the grid in the middle of next year, according to a
statement today from Ampere.  Ampere Equity Fund, which is managed by Triodos Investment
Management, a Triodos Bank unit, has capital of 320 million
euros including commitments from  PGGM NV  and Rabobank Group,
according to the statement and company website.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  