-- 
Hamptons Home Prices Climb as Luxury Properties Lure Buyers

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   A s h w i n   S e s h a g i r i
-- 
2011-07-21T17:11:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/hamptons-home-prices-climb-as-luxury-properties-attract-buyers.html
Home prices  in New York’s Hamptons,
the  Long Island  resort towns favored by summering Manhattanites,
increased 4.2 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier
as buyers opted for more expensive beach properties.  The median price of homes that sold in the quarter rose to
$937,500 from $900,000 a year earlier, according to a report
today by New York appraiser  Miller Samuel Inc.  and broker
 Prudential Douglas Elliman  Real Estate. Thirty-nine percent of
all sales completed in the Hamptons and Long Island’s North Fork
were for houses priced at $1 million or more, the second-highest
market share for such properties in three years.  “I’d look at the market as stabilized but punctuated with
very visible trophy property sales,”  Jonathan Miller , president
of Miller Samuel, said in a telephone interview. “This is a
phenomenon we saw in Long Island,  Brooklyn , Queens,  Manhattan 
and Westchester. Across the region, the top end of the market
outperformed the overall market.”  Luxury homes are attracting buyers as Wall Street
executives spend bonuses and employment improves, said Judi Desiderio, president of  Town & Country Real Estate  in the
Hamptons.  New York City ’s financial industry showed a net gain
of 10,400 jobs in the 12 months through May. The city’s overall
jobless rate was 8.6 percent that month, unchanged from a 25-
month low in April and down 1 percentage point from a year
earlier, the state Department of Labor said on June 16.  Above $5 Million  Twenty-four homes in the Hamptons and North Fork, which
constitute Long Island’s East End, sold for $5 million or more
in the second quarter, compared with 22 a year ago, according to
Miller. The median price for luxury properties, defined as the
top 10 percent by price, climbed 7.9 percent to $4.4 million.  “They get their bonus and they think, ‘hard asset -- let’s
go buy some East End dirt,’” said Desiderio, referring to the
Wall Street payouts that drive the Hamptons real estate market.
“They’re finally spending the money.”  The most expensive home that sold in the quarter was a 10-
bedroom, 12-bathroom house at  1710 Meadow Lane  along the
Atlantic beachfront in Southampton, which went for $32.5
million, according to Miller and broker listings.  Losing Bids  The demand for high-end homes thwarted Karen and Bruce
Kopelman from buying after they were outbid on two houses in the
$3 million to $5 million range. The couple, who rent a home in
the Hamptons full time after selling their house a year ago for
$3.75 million, have been searching for proprieties in Sagaponack
or Bridgehampton, south of the primary highway of Route 27.  They most recently lost out on a Bridgehampton home after
thinking they were close to a deal, Karen Kopelman said.  “Somebody just outbid us,” she said. “I bid less, and
they came in right about at asking.”  Kopelman, 52, said she has seen a rebound in the market
from last year, when her property ended up selling for less than
its asking price of $4.45 million.  “There are a lot of homebuyers, because we’ve had a
recession and the market is better now,” Kopelman said. “It’s
definitely better now than it was a year ago.”  For Richard Ekstract, it’s the best it’s been since 2007,
when he first tried selling his eight-bedroom Bridgehampton
home, before sales and prices began a two-year decline.
Ekstract, 80, the former publisher of Cottages & Gardens
magazines, priced his Lockwood Avenue house at $15 million,
subsequently reducing it to $9 million before pulling it from
the market a year ago.  Surge in ‘Action’  Now Ekstract, seeking a smaller place for him and his wife,
has relisted the house at $8.5 million after noticing a
resurgence of luxury-property sales.  “We’re beginning to see action like we haven’t seen in the
last three or four years,” Ekstract said. “This year, for the
first time, we’re seeing action in the high end.”  Two other reports this month also show increases in
Hamptons prices in the second quarter. Town & Country said in a
July 15 report that prices climbed 14 percent across the 12
towns and villages that comprise the Hamptons.  Brown Harris
Stevens , a  New York  brokerage, said in a report today that the
median price of sold homes jumped 18 percent to $1.1 million.  Fifty-one percent of the properties that changed hands were
priced at $1 million or more, the first time since the third
quarter of 2007 that a majority of Hamptons transactions were
above that threshold, said Gregory Heym, chief economist at
Terra Holdings LLC, which owns Brown Harris.  Slow Recovery  The  Corcoran Group , which also released a report today,
said median prices fell 3 percent to $900,000. Prices for vacant
land slid 34 percent to a median of 578,000, as “investors
hesitated to speculate,” according to the brokerage’s report.  “I don’t think its booming, I think it’s healthy,” Dottie Herman, president of Prudential Douglas Elliman, said in an
interview. “It’s a slow recovery.”  In the overall Hamptons market, homes took 44 percent more
time to sell in the quarter than they did a year earlier,
averaging 188 days on the market, according to  Miller Samuel  and
Prudential. Luxury homes, defined this quarter as properties
priced $3.3 million or higher, spent an average of 98 days on
the market, 32 percent less time than they did a year ago.  The town with the biggest gain in prices was Southampton
Village, where the median price of sold homes jumped 41 percent
from a year earlier to $2.99 million, according to Town &
Country. The median sales price in the Sag Harbor area climbed
27 percent to $886,250, while fewer properties changed hands.  Sales in the East Hampton area fell 28 percent to 68 deals,
while the median price for those transactions increased 18
percent to $955,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Ashwin Seshagiri in New York at 
 aseshagiri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  