-- 
AMR Declines to 23-Month Low as Record Jet Order Can’t Dispel Loss Concern

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-07-21T20:22:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/amr-falls-to-23-month-low-as-jet-order-can-t-dispel-loss-concern.html
American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AMR) 
fell to its lowest level in 23 months in  New York  trading after
the money-losing carrier’s record jet order failed to calm
investor concerns about its future.  “We have to admit a bit of disappointment that a more
comprehensive plan to restore profitability in the near-term
didn’t accompany” the order, Gary Chase, a Barclays Plc analyst
in New York, said in a report today. “We unfortunately don’t
think this changes much in the near-term for AMR, which
continues to languish versus peers.”  AMR has posted three straight annual losses and is the only
major U.S. carrier forecast by analysts to record deficits again
this year and next. Management at the  Fort Worth , Texas-based
company has been pressed by analysts since last year to take
steps to restore profits.  AMR dropped 37 cents, or 7.5 percent, to $4.55 at 4:03 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, its lowest closing
price since July 23, 2009.  The stock has tumbled 42 percent this year, leading
declines among the 11-member Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index.
AMR’s market cap has shrunk to $1.53 billion, compared with
$8.29 billion at Southwest Airlines Co., the biggest discount
carrier.  ‘Cloudy’ Outlook  “In an uncertain environment, where the economic outlook
is cloudy yet fuel prices remain stubbornly high, there is
simply too much downside leverage in AMR shares for our
comfort,” James M. Higgins, a Ticonderoga Securities LLC
analyst in New York, said in a note to investors.  Higgins cut his rating on AMR to “sell” from “neutral,”
reduced his price target to $3 and widened loss estimates for
this year and next.  AMR announced the order for 460 Boeing Co. and Airbus SAS
jets yesterday, the same day it unveiled a planned spinoff of
its American Eagle regional unit after more than a year of
review. The aircraft order includes $13 billion in financing
from the planemakers.  AMR’s second-quarter loss widened to $286 million, while
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and
 Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK)  today reported quarterly profits that
exceeded analysts’ estimates.  ‘Burning Cash’  “AMR is burning cash in a recovery,” Kevin Crissey, a UBS
Securities LLC analyst in New York, said in a report. “This is
troubling. We believe the company is underperforming the
industry in far too many ways.”  While the Eagle divestiture and replacing more fuel-
guzzling aircraft will help, neither will solve the company’s
problems in the short term, said Crissey, who widened his loss
estimate this year to $4 from $3.58 a share and has a
“neutral” rating on the stock.  The new planes will come with higher ownership costs and
more fixed versus variable expense, Chase said, and will dilute
revenue from each seat flown a mile because they are larger.  American is “urgently evaluating” additional cost-
reduction steps beyond $100 million in savings it already
identified for this year, Chief Financial Officer Bella Goren
said on a conference call yesterday. The airline also is
dropping some unprofitable routes, closing a reservations office
in Dublin and planning to further trim capacity early next year.  The carrier, which has the industry’s highest labor costs,
is trying to secure productivity gains amid contract
negotiations with major unions that began as far back as 2006.  “This is going to make them or break them,”  Ray Neidl , a
Maxim Group LLC analyst, said in an interview. “Usually when an
airline is losing a lot of money, they do get some cooperation
from employees. Right now employees feel they’ve made enough of
a sacrifice, so it’s a question of being stuck between a rock
and a hard place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  