-- 
Apple Is Said to Consider Bidding for Hulu Online TV Service

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-07-22T20:12:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/apple-said-to-consider-making-an-offer-for-hulu-online-television-service.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , with $76.2 billion in
cash and securities on its books, is considering making a bid
for the Hulu online video service, two people with knowledge of
the auction said.  Apple, the world’s second-most-valuable company, is in
early talks that may lead to an offer for Hulu, said the people,
who weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Hulu would give Apple a new subscription service and
represent a possible challenge to  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  Hulu’s media-
company owners,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  News Corp. (NWSA)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
NBC Universal, are offering suitors a five-year extension of
program rights, including two years of exclusive access, people
familiar with the matter said earlier this week.  “Part of the ecosystem of Apple’s future is to include
more video,” said  Scott Sutherland , Wedbush Securities Inc.
analyst in San Francisco who recommends buying the stock. “It’s
something they are focused on.”  Meredith Kendall, a spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based Hulu,
declined to comment, as did Tom Neumayr, a spokesman for
Cupertino, California-based Apple.  Hulu’s price tag could exceed $2 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and SNL Kagan.  Apple typically doesn’t make large acquisitions, Sutherland
said in an interview. Its biggest purchase of a company was the
$400 million spent for NeXT Software Inc., the 1996 deal that
returned Steve Jobs to the company, according to Bloomberg data.  Recent Acquisition  Apple agreed on June 30 to pay $2.6 billion as part of a
group buying patents belonging to Nortel Networks Corp. Apple is
also considering a bid for InterDigital Inc., a company valued
at $3.37 billion, for its patents, a person with knowledge of
the situation said.  Instead of a subscription, Apple’s iTunes media store
offers TV shows and movies for rental or purchase. Current-
season shows can be rented for 99 cents and high-definition
films rent for $4.99. Hulu, which inserts ads into programs,
offers limited free episodes and more expansive access with Hulu
Plus for $7.99 a month.  “Hulu would add a new element to their arsenal from a
streaming and subscription standpoint,” said  Brian Marshall , an
analyst at Gleacher & Co. in San Francisco who also recommends
investors buy Apple shares.  Apple rose $6.01, or 1.6 percent, to $393.30 at 4 p.m. New
York time Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have climbed
22 percent this year.  Hulu Plus is available on Apple’s iPhone, iPad and iPod
Touch. It’s also accessible through  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s XBox
video-game console, Sony Corp.’s PlayStation 3 and on phones
using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system, including the HTC
Thunderbolt.  Committed to Sale  Disney Chief Executive Officer Robert Iger told reporters
July 6 at the Allen & Co. conference in Sun Valley, Idaho, that
Hulu’s owners are committed to selling the company. Jobs is
Burbank, California-based Disney’s biggest shareholder and a
member of its board of directors.  Morgan Stanley and Guggenheim Partners, bankers for Hulu,
have elicited interest from Google, Yahoo Inc.,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
other companies, people said earlier. Microsoft dropped out of
the bidding, a person with knowledge of the matter said this
week.  Yahoo would pay up to $2 billion for Hulu with four or five
years of exclusive access to current TV shows and older movies,
the Business Insider website reported this week, citing a person
it didn’t identify.  Extended Rights  The extended program rights, similar to terms Hulu’s owners
considered as part of an earlier share sale, and other financial
data are included in materials provided to suitors who sign a
non-disclosure agreement, two people said.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,
based in Seattle, is unlikely to bid without guarantees of
access to shows, one person said.  Hulu was put up for sale last month by its owners, which
also include Providence Equity Partners, after receiving
interest from a potential suitor, people with knowledge of the
situation said at the time.  The website, which didn’t go forward with an initial public
offering that may have given it $2 billion in market value, said
it will exceed 1 million subscribers by the end of August. Hulu
may approach $500 million in revenue in 2011, CEO  Jason Kilar 
said April 4 on Hulu’s website, citing trends at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles in San Francisco at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  