-- 
Apple Surpasses Lenovo Revenue in China on Strength of IPhone, IPad Sales

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-07-22T04:01:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/apple-surpasses-lenovo-revenue-in-china-on-strength-of-iphones.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  may have surpassed  Lenovo
Group Ltd. (992) ’s revenue in China and surrounding region for the
first time in at least a decade as the iPhone-maker’s surge in
sales hurt growth at the biggest Chinese computer maker.  Lenovo’s combined revenue in China, Hong Kong and  Taiwan 
last quarter lagged behind the $3.8 billion for Apple, according
to four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Lenovo, which
acquired  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s personal
computer business in 2005, this week added two new tablets in
the U.S. featuring Google Inc.’s Android software to take on
Apple in its home turf.  Overtaking Lenovo within two years of introducing the
iPhone in China shows the progress Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  is making in luring buyers in the world’s fastest-growing
major economy. Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook  told analysts
this week the Cupertino, California-based maker of Macintosh
computers is only “scratching the surface” in the country.  “Apple is doing very well in China,” said Jean-Louis Lafayeedney, who rates Lenovo shares “buy” at JI  Asia  in Hong
Kong. Apple’s growth may become a concern for Lenovo unless the
Chinese company increases sales of its new smartphones and
tablet computers soon, he said.  Lenovo generated $3 billion in sales from mainland China in
the quarter ended June 30, according to Jenny Lai, head of
Taiwan research at  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  She had the highest of the
analysts’ estimates in the Bloomberg survey.  Greater China  All four analysts polled said Lenovo’s revenue from Hong
Kong and Taiwan weren’t enough to take the company’s total for
the greater China region past that of Apple’s. That would make
it the first time Apple posted higher sales than Lenovo in the
region since at least 1998, when the Chinese company acquired
parent Legend Group’s PC business.  Lenovo, due to report earnings next month, rose 1.6 percent
to HK$5.14 as of 11:33 a.m. in Hong Kong trading today. The
stock has gained 3.2 percent this year, underperforming shares
of Apple, which have advanced 20 percent in the U.S.  Expansion into China and other emerging markets helped make
up for  slower growth  in the U.S. Sales in China, Taiwan and  Hong
Kong  have totaled $8.8 billion in the first three quarters of
the fiscal year, Apple said.  “China was very key to our results,” Chief Operating
Officer Tim Cook, who is handling day-to-day leadership during
Jobs’s medical leave, said July 19. “This has been a
substantial opportunity for Apple, and I firmly believe that
we’re just scratching the surface right now.”  Tablet Computers  For Beijing and North Carolina-based Lenovo, Apple’s
gaining popularity means increasing competition in China, where
its brand adorns every personal computer out of three.  The introduction of tablet computers by competitors
weakened growth in China’s PC market, Lenovo Chief Executive
Officer  Yang Yuanqing  said in February. Apple started selling
its iPad tablet in  China  in September 2010.  Lenovo, formerly known as Legend Holdings Ltd., in 1998
acquired the PC manufacturing business of its parent, which
became the biggest computer vendor in China in 1996, according
to the company’s website.  “We do not comment on the business results of other
companies,” Lenovo said in an e-mail. “Our results in China
have been strong. Lenovo is the number one PC company in China
with more than 30 percent market share -- more than 3 times our
nearest competitor.”  LePad Tablet  Carolyn Wu, a spokeswoman at Apple in Beijing, declined to
comment on the sales comparison between the companies.  “The iPad has eroded sales at not only Lenovo, but all
local computer makers,” said HSBC’s Lai.  Lenovo’s better knowledge of the Chinese market gives the
company an advantage over Apple, Chairman Liu Chuanzhi said in
January. The Chinese computer vendor will rely on new products
such as smartphones and tablets to counter Apple, he said.  Lenovo, which bought the PC unit of IBM in 2005 to expand
outside China, said this week it will start selling two tablet
computers based on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android technology in the U.S.
in the coming month, and add another device powered by  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows 7 in the fourth quarter. The Chinese company
started selling its LePad tablet in its home market in March.  Apple Store  “Our products will be competitive,” Yang said today in
Hong Kong, where Lenovo held a shareholders meeting, noting the
new tablet devices were priced lower than similar Apple
products. He reiterated Lenovo’s target to increase its share of
the tablet market in China to 20 percent this year.  Apple didn’t open its first store in China until 2008.
Apple’s stores in Beijing and  Shanghai  generate, on average, the
company’s highest traffic and highest revenue, Chief Financial
Officer  Peter Oppenheimer  said in January.  In 2009, Apple began sales of its best-selling iPhone in
China through a partnership with China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd.,
the country’s second-biggest mobile carrier.  China Mobile Ltd. (941) ,
the world’s largest mobile-phone company by users, said last
month it held talks with Apple regarding offering of iPhones.  “Lenovo is playing catch up in the tablet and smartphone
market, and it’s going to be difficult for them,” said Vincent Chen, who rates the stock “hold” at Yuanta Securities in
Taipei. “Apple is such a strong brand that it’s hard to see any
one single company that could compete against them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  