-- 
Apple’s Lion Heralds Mouse-Free Era for Macs: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-07-21T04:57:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/apple-s-lion-heralds-mouse-free-touchpad-mac-era-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Lion, the new version of the software
that runs  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s Macs, is the first personal-computer
operating system for the post-PC era.  The rise of smartphones and tablets, led by Apple’s own
iPhones and iPads, has done more than just eat into sales of
desktops and laptops. It’s made the mouse seem obsolete by
allowing us to interact with our devices and data through a
touch interface rather than a pointing device. Apple introduced
the mouse with the original Mac. Lion largely lays the rodent to
rest.  I’ve been running the new operating system on two Macs: one
of Apple’s newly revamped MacBook Air ultra-portables, on which
it was pre-installed, loaned to me by the company; and as an
upgrade on a recent-model iMac desktop. I’m finding it beautiful,
stable and chock full of new features -- but with a significant
learning curve attached.  Lion went on sale yesterday at Apple’s online store for $30,
and the upgrade process is remarkably smooth. Downloading it
over a cable-modem connection and installing it took me about 45
minutes. There were no product keys or serial numbers to enter
and the whole thing ran pretty much on auto-pilot. One purchase
entitles you to install Lion on every Mac you own.  In addition to the online version, Apple next month will
start selling Lion on a USB drive for $69.  Taps and Swipes  Getting the most out of Lion requires learning a bunch of
unfamiliar gestures, taps and swipes. Take for example the
simple act of scrolling down a Web page. The first thing you’ll
notice about the scroll bar is, there isn’t one. It only appears
when you put two fingers on the touch pad (if you’re using a
laptop) or the touch-sensitive  Magic Mouse  that comes with the
iMac. Then, instead of pulling the slider to move down the page,
you move your fingers up, much as you’d do on an iPad.  While there’s a certain logic to the new interface, old
habits are hard to break, and I frequently found myself needing
time to figure out how to accomplish what I wanted.  Adding to the difficulty was that some of the gestures were
different depending on whether I was using the touchpad or the
mouse. It isn’t a problem if you only work on one or the other,
but it’ll be a long time before I automatically know when to use
a “three-finger upward swipe” rather than a “two-finger
double-tap.”  New Icons  If the new user interface is the most obvious change in
Lion, it’s only one of what Apple says are 250 new features.
You’ll notice a couple of the most important in the form of new
icons that appear in the dock at the bottom of your screen.  One is called Launchpad. It serves as a home base for the
applications you’ve installed on your Mac. Your programs appear
as icons, much as they do on an iPad, and you can add, delete
and rearrange them at will. I found it especially useful because
I tend to junk up my desktop with random files, folders and
icons. Launchpad helped me cut through the clutter.  The other new icon launches Mission Control, Apple’s latest
effort to provide you with a bird’s-eye view of everything
active on your computer: open windows, dashboard widgets,
multiple desktops. In earlier versions of its operating system,
Apple tried something like this with a feature called Expose
that I never much cared for. Mission Control is a considerable
improvement.  Full-Screen Apps  The need for a better tool to keep track of everything is
even more important with Lion’s emphasis on running apps that
take up the entire screen. In full-screen mode, the dock and
menu bar disappear, though you can summon the latter by moving
your cursor to the top of the screen. With Lion, you can have
several full-screen apps running at once, swiping your fingers
to navigate between them.  For all the big changes in Lion, I actually found some of
the smaller ones to be among the most enjoyable. For instance, a
new feature called AirDrop makes it absurdly easy for nearby
Macs to wirelessly exchange files, no Wi-Fi network required.
That one alone could put a dent in thumb-drive sales.  Other nice touches: When you open a program or restart your
system, Lion automatically takes you right back to where you
left off. Programs written for the new OS will be able to
automatically save your work, and let you retrieve earlier
versions. The Mail program has been intelligently redesigned,
with a new conversation view that threads lengthy chains of
correspondence for easier reading. All in all, it’s a lot for
$30.  Ultimately, how readily you embrace Lion will depend on
your tolerance for change. Me, I’ve reached my conclusion:
Change is good.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 