-- 
Arcelik Agrees to Acquire Appliance Maker Defy For $327 Million, CEO Says

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-07-21T10:19:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/arcelik-agrees-to-acquire-appliance-maker-defy-for-327-million-ceo-says.html
Arcelik AS (ARCLK) ,  Europe ’s third-largest
home appliances maker, agreed to buy South African appliance
maker  Defy Appliances (Pty) Ltd.  for $327 million.  The price includes $229 million of equity value and about
$98 million of a shareholder loan provided by Franke Holding AG,
a Swiss home appliance maker that owns Defy, Arcelik said in a
filing with the Istanbul Stock Exchange today. Defy Appliances
has an enterprise value of 2.24 billion South African rand ($324
million), it said. The agreement for the purchase was signed
yesterday, Arcelik said.  “The proposed acquisition will crystallize the opportunity
for Arcelik to expand in  South Africa  and sub-Saharan Africa
using Defy as a platform,” Levent Cakiroglu, chief executive
officer of the Istanbul-based company, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The final transaction price will be determined at the date
of closing, expected at the end of September after approvals
from South African and Namibian antitrust authorities, Arcelik
said.  “Within its growth strategy in emerging markets, the
acquisition of the market leader in the appliance market of the
South African region is positive,” Tunc Yildirim, an analyst at
Istanbul-based Standard Unlu, said in an e-mailed note. Standard
Unlu has an “outperform” rating on Arcelik stock.  Arcelik fell 24 kurus, or 3 percent, to 7.7 liras at 12:29
p.m. on the  Istanbul Stock Exchange . The 100-stock ISE National
100 Index, which includes Arcelik, was 3.2 percent lower at
59,657.96 in Istanbul after  Fitch Ratings  said Turkey’s current-
account deficit and the pace of bank lending growth are causing
“uncertainty” on its outlook for an upgrade.  ‘Growth Potential’  “Considering the growth potential in the South African
region and the acquired company’s strong margins, we believe
that this acquisition price is fair or even might be a
bargain,” Yildirim said. The price meant a valuation of 7.6
times Defy’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, he said.  Defy, which makes refrigerators, freezers, dryers, ovens
and cooking appliances in three plants in South  Africa , had
Ebitda of $43 million in 2010, on sales of $345 million,
according to Arcelik.  Arcelik, which had 6.9 billion liras ($4.2 billion) of
sales in 2010, aims to grow its lira-based sales between 12 and
16 percent, the company said April 26. Arcelik, whose brands
include Beko, Grundig and Blomberg, has 11 production plants in
Turkey, Romania,  China  and  Russia , according to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 