-- 
Army Spent Over $32 Billion on Canceled Programs Since 1995

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-07-21T20:32:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/army-spent-over-32-billion-on-canceled-programs-since-1995.html
The U.S. Army since 1995 has spent
at least $32 billion on development, testing and evaluation of
22 weapons programs that were later canceled -- almost a third
of its budget for creating new weapons, according to an internal
 evaluation released  today.  The Army every year since 1995 spent more than $1 billion
on doomed programs. Those “lost investments” by 2004 increased
to as much as $3.8 billion annually, or up to 42 percent of the
Army’s total research, development and test dollars those years,
said the report requested by Army Secretary John McHugh.  “Army acquisition has proved ineffective and inefficient
as demonstrated by the 22 major programs terminated since the
end of the  Cold War ,” said the study. “This track record is
unacceptable” and the Army “cannot afford to continue
acquiring materiel the way it has in the last two decades.”  Most of the $32.2 billion, out of a total of $98 billion
spent on creating new weapons since 1995, was spent since 2001.
Among 15 major Army programs contributing to that total was the
manned vehicle portion of  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s Future Combat Systems, on
which $19 billion was spent before it was canceled in April 2009
by Defense Secretary  Robert Gates . The system didn’t incorporate
combat survival lessons from  Iraq , he said.  More than 100 officials and experts interviewed for the
study concluded the Army’s normal weapons buying process --
outside combat-related rapid acquisition channels -- “needs
major surgery to improve its effectiveness,” said the report by
seven retired service acquisition officials, including former
Assistant Secretary of the Army Gilbert Decker.  ‘Lost Trust’  “As a result of these problems, Army leadership, the
Office of Secretary of Defense,  Capitol Hill  and industry have
lost trust in the Army’s acquisition processes and capability to
effectively provide equipment and services in a timely manner,”
it said.  The Army’s termination numbers were “roughly twice as bad
as the other two services,” Frank Kendall, principal deputy
undersecretary of defense for acquisition,  told reporters  April
20.  “There’s been a tendency” on the Army leadership’s part
“to not let things go,” said Kendall, who was aware of the
Decker report’s conclusions. “The uniformed leadership in
particular is often reluctant to let go of a program that’s been
in development for a long time,” he said, and too often has
chosen “to stretch programs out with insufficient resources and
just keep them going.”  ‘Looking Ahead’  Army officials until today had declined to release the
report. It was made public after a media roundtable where
officials spoke about steps the service is taking to implement
the study’s recommendations.  “No one wants to waste any money,” said Deputy Under
Secretary Thomas Hawley. ‘I’m not prepared to account for how
much we wasted or not but we certainly did get value out of
these programs,” he said.  Acting Assistant Secretary for Acquisition Heidi Shyu said
“what we are doing is looking ahead -- what are the things we
need to do, what are the processes we need to do, understanding
the problems we had.”  With over 30 recommendations now being followed, “to us,
it’s a positive story,” Shyu said, not focusing on “spilled
milk.”  ‘Vexing Reality’  The Army study underscores a point Gates made in a May
speech in  Washington  when he outlined a “vexing and disturbing
reality” -- weapons spending of over $700 billion since Sept.
11, 2001 that “resulted in relatively modest gains in actual
military capability.”  Todd Harrison , defense budget analyst for the Center for
Strategic and Budget Assessments, a private Washington study
group, this week likened the situation to “Hollow Growth”
where “acquisition costs increased while the inventory of
equipment grew smaller and older.”  Harrison calculated that since 2001 the Pentagon and
military services canceled 12 programs on which $46 billion was
spent. His list included seven of the biggest Army terminations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  