-- 
Arsenal Board Wants Wenger to Spend, Sun Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-07-21T11:34:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/arsenal-board-wants-wenger-to-spend-sun-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Arsenal Spending  Arsenal’s board is asking  Arsene Wenger  to spend more money
before the season starts next month,  the Sun said.   Some executives are upset that the manager’s only major
signings are Ivory Coast striker Gervinho, for 11 million pounds
($18 million) and Charlton defender Carl Jenkinson, for 1
million pounds.  Wenger has concentrated on trying to keep captain Cesc
Fabregas and midfielder Samir Nasri as well as sign striker
Robin van Persie to a long-term contract, the newspaper said.  N’Zogbia Strike  Wigan striker  Charles N’Zogbia  may refuse to play to try
and force coach Roberto Martinez to sell him to Aston Villa for
9 million pounds,  the Daily Telegraph said.   The French player wanted to leave last year, but remained
with Wigan and helped the team stay in the Premier League, the
newspaper said. He will refuse to practice, the newspaper said.  De Rossi Move  Chelsea and  Manchester City  may be ready to bid for Roma
midfielder  Daniele De Rossi  after the Italian player refused to
extend his contract, which is in its final year,  the Daily
Mirror said.   De Rossi may be made available for less than 15 million
pounds, although new coach Luis Enrique wants to keep the player,
the newspaper said.  West Ham Signing  Bolton midfielder Matt Taylor returned from the team’s U.S.
tour to negotiate signing with West Ham,  the Guardian said.   The 29-year-old has one year left on his contract and may
join West Ham for 2.2 million pounds, the newspaper said. Taylor
may lose his role at Bolton to  Martin Petrov , the Guardian said.  Southampton Ready  Southampton is ready to sell midfielder Alex Oxlade-
Chamberlain for offers of 12 million pounds after dismissing an
Arsenal bid for the 17-year-old, the Daily Mirror said.  The Gunners offered 6 million pounds plus other add-ons in
January, but Southampton chairman Nicola Cortese wants cash
offers of as much as 15 million pounds,  the newspaper said .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in  London  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 