-- 
Las Vegas Woos Wedding-Vow Renewals as Quickie Marriages Decline

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 
2011-07-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/las-vegas-woos-wedding-vow-renewals.html
The quickie wedding, long a  Las
Vegas  tradition for love-happy Nevada tourists, may be the
latest casualty of the worst recession in decades.  Fewer couples flock to the Southwest’s Sin City to pledge
their fidelity to an Elvis serenade these days as tough economic
times lead some to postpone marriage or shun the rite entirely.  “If you don’t have a stable job, it’s hard to say, ‘Let’s
get married and start a family,’” Diana Alba, clerk of Nevada’s
Clark County, said in a telephone interview. Her office issues
marriage licenses for couples who wed in Las Vegas.  The slump is prompting some of the city’s more than 60
wedding chapels to focus on husbands and wives seeking to renew
their vows and to commitment ceremonies for same-sex couples who
can’t legally wed in  Nevada , Alba said. It also means lost
revenue for the county, which charges $60 for a license, with
$25 steered toward domestic-violence programs, Alba said.  Clark County marriage licenses have dropped from a 2004
peak of 128,250, according to the county’s  website . In 2010,
91,890 were handed out, down 28 percent in six years.  “Just because there is a decline in marriage certificates,
there isn’t a decline in love,” Charolette Richards, owner of
the  Little White Wedding Chapel  in Las Vegas, said in a
telephone interview. “There are people today that are renewing
their vows more than ever.”  Keepsake for Couples  So much so that the county is considering producing
keepsake certificates for couples reaffirming their matrimonial
commitments -- for a fee, Alba said. Including Las Vegas, the
county hosts more than 90 wedding chapels.  “If we did 1,000 annually, and we charge say, $45, that
would still be some revenue that we didn’t have before,” Alba
said. Her office gets a handful of calls each week from people
asking about the procedure.  Richards, who in 1987 married movie stars  Bruce Willis  and
Demi Moore, said she’s noticed an increase in vow renewals in
the last few years. The recommitment ceremonies now make up
about a third of her clientele.  Her business, which opened in 1946, offers drive-through
service in its “Tunnel of Love.” Britney Spears and Joan Collins also have had weddings at her chapel.  Marriage in general has been on the decline as more people
postpone weddings to put educational and career advancement
first, or opt to live together without the formalities. U.S.
Census Bureau data show 54.1 percent of adults were married in
2010, a decline from 57.3 percent in 2000. The median age of
first marriages has risen to 28 for men and 26 for women in 2009
from 23 and 20, respectively, in 1950, according to the bureau.  Economics Role  “Economics have always played a role in people marrying,”
said Sharon Sassler, a demographer at  Cornell University  in
Ithaca, New York.  “Because it is harder to attain a stable middle-class
status, people are deferring marriage or deciding to live
together without marrying,” Sassler, who studies families, said
in a telephone interview.  Cliff Evarts, founder and chief executive officer of chapel
operator  Vegas Weddings , said the economy has had a significant
effect on the city’s matrimonial business in the past few years.  “ Gas prices , airplane ticket prices, all those things
impact people’s ability or desire to come to Vegas,” Evarts
said. The desert city sits about 270 miles (430 kilometers)
northeast of  Los Angeles  and about 2,500 miles west of New York.  Gasoline futures have climbed as much as 83 percent since
the end of June 2009, the last month of the longest recession
since the Great Depression. Contracts for August delivery rose
3.21 cents yesterday to settle at almost $3.15 a gallon on the
 New York  Mercantile Exchange.  Tourism Peak  About 37.3 million people visited Las Vegas last year,
compared with a peak of 39.2 million in 2007, according to the
city’s Convention and Visitors Authority. The recession  began  in
December of that year.  The drop in visits is “tied to the broader recession,”
Kevin Bagger, the authority’s senior director of marketing, said
in a telephone interview.  The national jobless rate reached a 26-year high of 10.1
percent in October 2009. After sliding to 8.8 percent in March
it rose to 9.2 percent last month. From the end of 2004 to the
end of 2007, the rate averaged 4.8 percent.  Evarts said he has urged county officials to begin offering
vow-renewal licenses, since 78 percent of the city’s annual
visitors are married.  Change Focus  “We really need to change our focus from weddings to vow
renewals,” he said. “We then are marketing to over 30 million
customers a year as opposed to marketing to only 200,000
visitors a year.”  Evarts said he is meeting with Alba, the county clerk, and
matrimonial-industry representatives on July 28 to discuss
issuing such licenses. Alba said the certificates under
consideration would be optional, not mandatory, and would
display the couple’s original wedding date.  “We want it to be something fun, another fun reason to
come to Las Vegas,” Alba said.  “There is a market among tourists, particularly those from
foreign countries, who want to come to a government agency and
get a certificate that contains an official seal and that says
Las Vegas,  Clark County , Nevada,” she said. Making it official
policy may take months, including two county board meetings.  Chapel operators may benefit, Evarts said.  Reinventing Las Vegas  “There’s a real opportunity for Vegas to reinvent itself
as the vow-renewal capital of the world,” Evarts said. Already-
married couples recommitting themselves represent 5 percent to
10 percent of his business, he said.  Dianne Schiller, owner of Las Vegas-based  Renta-Dress & Tux
Shop , which provides wedding and formal wear, said her business
has dropped by 15 percent from two years ago, prompting her to
stock more gowns in the lower $150 range.  “People are spending way less,” Schiller said. “If it’s
volume over quality, I don’t care as long as my doors are open
and I’m in business still.”  Schiller said she caters to people who are getting married
for the first time and “a lot of vow renewals.”  The state’s history as a nexus for matrimonial rites of
passage dates back almost a century.  In the 1920s, Reno, in northern Nevada about 220 miles
northeast of  San Francisco , became a destination for wealthy
women seeking a quick divorce, particularly after the state
changed its law to reduce its residency requirement to three
months. By 1931, the mandated in-state time fell to six weeks,
said Eugene Moehring, who teaches history at the  University of
Nevada  in Las Vegas. The women would live on dude ranches or in
Reno apartment houses, he said.  Revenue Generator  “It was a way to draw more revenue and visitors,”
Moehring said by telephone. “Once they went to Reno, clubs
opened catering to them, very posh places, because they had a
lot of money. That’s when Reno really got on the map.”  During World War II, the state began attracting couples
seeking a quick marriage, traveling to Reno from Northern
California and to  Las Vegas  from  Southern California  to wed.  “No one knew whether they were going to live or die,”
Moehring said.  The ease of getting a marriage license built the popularity
of Las Vegas for quick weddings. No blood test or waiting period
is required, according to the Clark County website.  “Applicants must be a biological male and a biological
female, at least 18 years of age, and no nearer of kin than
second cousins or cousins of half-blood, and not having a
husband or wife living,” according to the county’s  website .  Drawing Celebrities  Over the years, celebrity marriages in Las Vegas have
fueled the city’s popularity as a launch pad for matrimonial
bliss.  Paul Newman  and Joanne Woodward,  Frank Sinatra  and Mia Farrow, Cindy Crawford and Richard Gere, and  Angelina Jolie  and
Billy Bob Thornton all married in Vegas chapels.  “It’s part of the entertainment of the city that people
can come here for a quick marriage,”  Stephen Brown , an
economics professor at the University of Nevada in Las Vegas,
said in a telephone interview.  Vow renewals are a new phenomenon, Moehring said. “Nobody
was doing that 15 years ago.”  Richards, who has owned the Little White Wedding Chapel for
53 years, said the economy has brought couples together.  “Let’s face it: They’ve lost their homes, they’ve lost
their jobs, but they haven’t lost each other,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 