-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Wheat Falls After U.S. Exports Decline

-- B y   M i l l i e   M u n s h i
-- 
2011-07-21T21:36:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/asia-commodity-day-ahead-wheat-falls-after-u-s-exports-decline.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Wheat Futures Fall Most This Month After U.S. Exports Decline  Wheat futures fell the most this month on signs that demand
is easing for supplies from the U.S., the world’s largest
exporter, as competing producers boost output and offer lower
prices.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Mineral-Rich, People-Poor Mongolia Prepares for Flood of Money  Hurrying into her cramped office deep within Mongolia’s
huge Soviet-era Government House, Parliament member Sanjaasuren
Oyun, 46, is flushed with excitement, a smile creasing her
usually serious face.  Argentine Grain Export Ports Blockade Ends as Workers Settle  Argentine state workers ended a strike blocking cereal
ports in its fourth day after accepting a government offer to
increase salaries, union official Laura Schweid said today in a
telephone interview from  Buenos Aires .  Mechel Said to Pick JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley, UBS for Unit IPO  OAO Mechel,  Russia ’s largest miner of steelmaking coal,
picked JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley and UBS AG to manage
the initial public offering of its mining unit, said two people
familiar with the process.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Falls Most in Four Week on Signs China Demand May Ease  Copper futures fell the most in four weeks on signs that
demand is dwindling in China, the world’s largest metal user.  MINING:  Kumba  Iron Ore  Seeks West Africa Expansion; May Work With Anglo  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd., the world’s fourth-largest supplier of
seaborne iron ore, said it will seek expansion in West Africa,
“in all likelihood” working with majority shareholder Anglo
American Plc.  Freeport Net Beats Estimates as Copper Rises, Costs Decline (1)  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc., the world’s largest
publicly traded copper producer, reported second-quarter profit
that topped analysts’ estimates as metal prices rose and
production costs declined.  Anglo, Xstrata Coal Miners in S.Africa Plan Strike Over Pay (2)  Anglo American Plc, Xstrata Plc and Exxaro Resources Ltd.
expect workers at their coal mines in  South Africa  to start
striking over pay on the night of July 24, the Chamber of Mines
said.  Walter Energy CEO Resigning Signals 60% Takeover Gain: Real M&A  Walter Energy Inc.’s shareholders, who lost almost $2
billion in three months on management turmoil and disappointing
earnings, may still be rewarded with a $4 billion windfall if
the coal producer is acquired.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Falls in New York as Euro Rallies on European Debt Deal  Gold fell for the third straight day as the euro advanced
on a plan to contain the region’s debt woes, cutting demand for
the precious metal as a haven.  Swiss Monthly Imports, Exports of Platinum-Group Metals (Table)  The following is a table of monthly Swiss imports and
exports of platinum, palladium and rhodium. The figures include
raw form or powder and half-processed material, and were sent in
an e-mail by the Swiss Federal Customs Administration. Amounts
are in kilograms. One kilogram equals 2.2 pounds.  AGRICULTURE:  Soybean Futures Rise as Dollar Declines, U.S. Exports Increase  Soybean futures advanced for the second day on speculation
that the dollar’s decline will boost the appeal of supplies from
the U.S., the world’s leading exporter.  Corn Declines as Rain, Cooler Weather May Ease U.S. Crop Stress  Corn fell for the third time this week as rain and cooler
weather eased crop concerns in the U.S., the world’s biggest
producer.  Cotton Falls as  China ’s Imports Slump;  Orange Juice  Declines  Cotton futures declined for the second straight day as
imports dropped in China, the world’s biggest consumer. Orange
juice fell.  Cattle Prices Rise as U.S. Beef-Export Demand Climbs; Hogs Gain  Cattle futures rose on signs of increasing export demand
for U.S. beef. Hog prices also climbed.  Sugar Rises on Mounting Brazil-Crop Concern; Coffee, Cocoa Fall  Sugar futures jumped the most in a week on signs that
production will trail estimates in  Brazil , the world’s biggest
exporter. Coffee and cocoa declined.  SHIPPING:  Commodity Shipping Costs Fall as Chinese Iron-Ore Demand Slows  Commodity-shipping costs extended their longest slide in
almost three months as slowing Chinese demand for iron ore cut
freight costs for vessels that transport the ingredient used to
make steel.  ECONOMIES:  U.S. Economy: Leading Index Signals Continued Expansion (1)  The index of U.S. leading indicators rose in June,
confirming the  Federal Reserve ’s forecast that the economy will
pick up in the second half of the year.  Jobless Claims in U.S. Rose by 10,000 Last Week to 418,000 (2)  More Americans than forecast filed claims for  unemployment
benefits  last week, reflecting the volatility of applications
during the annual auto-plant retooling period.  OTHER MARKETS:  Euro, Stocks Gain as Europe Outlines Plan to Contain Debt Crisis  The euro surged, extending its best three-day gain in six
weeks, and stocks rallied as European officials detailed a plan
to halt the debt crisis. Treasuries fell and the Dollar Index
slid the most in six months.  Oil Climbs to 1-Month High on Manufacturing, Europe Debt Plan  Crude oil  rose to a one-month high in  New York  after
manufacturing in the Philadelphia area rebounded and on reports
European Union officials have come up with a plan for the
region’s debt crisis, bolstering the euro.  SPORTS:  Tiger Woods  Caddie Pick Favors Fanny Sunesson, Paddy Power Says  Tiger Woods needs a new caddie and Irish bookmaker Paddy
Power Plc. says the favorite is Fanny Sunesson, who helped  Nick
Faldo  win four major golf championships.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 