-- 
Asian Stocks Decline on Concern Over China Manufacturing

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-07-21T09:15:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/asia-bank-stocks-rise-as-france-germany-agree-technology-shares-decline.html
Asian stocks dropped, with the
regional benchmark index falling for the first time in three
days, on concern factory output in  China  may have contracted
this month, and as companies from  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  to
Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. posted lower earnings.  BYD Co., which gets 85 percent of its revenue from China,
dropped 3.1 percent in  Hong Kong  after a report showed the
country’s output may have contracted for the first time in a
year.  Soho China Ltd. (410) , the biggest developer of land in
Beijing’s central business district, slipped 2.6 percent as the
country’s banking regulator said it would step up supervision of
local-government lending. Hyundai Heavy, the world’s largest
shipbuilder, slumped 5.1 percent in Seoul as second-quarter net
income declined 17 percent.  “While tightening measures remain in place in China it’s
going to keep pressure on the economy, and that will weigh down
on stocks that are growth-related,” said Matt Riordan, who
helps manage almost $7 billion in Sydney at Paradice Investment
Management Pty. “Macro concerns are still dominating markets,
but if a resolution of those issues occurs, the focus will move
back to fundamentals and earnings.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.1 percent 136.67 as of
6:14 p.m. in  Tokyo . About five stocks dropped for every four
that rose on the gauge, with consumer and energy stocks leading
declines on concern the pace of a global economic recovery will
slow.  U.S., European Debt  The measure dropped last week for the first time in four
weeks after European finance ministers declined to rule out a
temporary default for  Greece  and as Moody’s Investors Service
put the U.S. under review for a possible credit-rating downgrade.  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average erased losses of as much
as 0.3 percent, and closed little changed.  South Korea ’s Kospi
Index dropped 0.5 percent.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index added
0.1 percent, while Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index retreated 0.1
percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.1
percent today. In New York, the index slipped 0.1 percent
yesterday as concern the government will fail to increase the
debt limit overshadowed higher-than-estimated earnings at Apple
Inc.  A proposal for a $3.7 trillion debt-cutting plan is facing
resistance from House Republicans as lawmakers intensify efforts
for a compromise less than two weeks before a threatened default.
President Barack Obama plans to renew talks at the White House
this week with congressional leaders as the Democratic-led
Senate and Republican House pursue divergent paths toward ending
the stalemate.  ‘Short-term Pain’  China’s  Shanghai  Composite Index slid 1 percent after a
report from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed the
country’s output may have contracted for the first time in a
year this month. Preliminary data showed the nation’s purchasing
managers’ index fell to 48.9 in July from 50.1 in June. A
reading below 50 indicates a contraction. A final report is due
on Aug. 1.  BYD, a maker of batteries and cars part-owned by  Warren
Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., dropped 3.1 percent to
HK$23.35 in Hong Kong.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288) , the
nation’s third-biggest lender by market value, fell 2 percent to
HK$4.03.  “Slower manufacturing in China should be expected as the
export sector is slowing down,” said Hong Kong-based Pauline Dan, chief investment officer at Samsung Asset Management, which
oversees about $72 billion. “In the short-term, this is going
to cause some pain.”  Chinese Developers  Chinese developers declined after the nation’s banking
regulator said it will look closely at risks involving loans to
the real-estate industry and Shanghai Securities News reported
that as many as 20 more cities may limit home purchases.  Soho China fell 2.6 percent to HK$7.07 in Hong Kong.
Guangzhou R&F Properties Co., the No. 1 homebuilder in the
southern Chinese city, lost 1.2 percent to HK$10.08. Poly Real
Estate Group Co., the nation’s second-largest developer,
declined 2.3 percent to 10.84 yuan in Shanghai.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index lost 0.6 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 5.4 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 2.9 percent by the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark were valued at 13.6 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.3 times for the
S&P 500 and 10.8 times for the Stoxx 600.  Cnooc Ltd., China’s biggest offshore oil producer by market
value, slumped 3.6 percent to HK$16.86, extending yesterday’s
decline, after agreeing to acquire Opti Canada Inc., a bankrupt
Canadian oil-sands producer.  Hyundai Heavy, Hynix  Lower earnings sent some shares lower today. Hyundai Heavy
slumped 5.1 percent to 410,000 won in  Seoul . Hynix sank 2.3
percent to 23,650 won after quarterly profit slumped because
slowing personal-computer demand dragged on chip prices.  Most stocks fell even as German Chancellor Angela Merkel
and French President Nicolas Sarkozy agreed on a joint position
to solve Greece’s debt crisis ahead of a summit today in
Brussels to stamp out contagion in European bond markets. Greek
Prime Minister George Papandreou said Europe’s leaders need to
show they can resolve the debt crisis to avoid contagion
enveloping Italy and  Spain  in a “make-or-break moment.”  “The problems in Europe are big and it will take a few
more steps to have a clear solution,” said Hong Kong-based Yoji Takeda, who manages $1.1 billion at RBC Investment Management
(Asia) Ltd. “The U.S. is also making some progress on a debt
deal and I expect them to come up with a solution eventually.”  -- Editors: Nick Gentle, Jason Clenfield.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 