-- 
Asia to Buy 49 Cargoes of West African Crude for August Loading

-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-07-21T23:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/asia-to-buy-49-cargoes-of-west-african-crude-for-august-loading.html
Asian refiners plan to buy 49
cargoes of crude from West Africa for loading next month, a
survey of five traders involved in the transactions showed.  Shipments totaling 46.7 million barrels, or 1.51 million
barrels a day, will be exported from  Angola ,  Nigeria , Republic
of Congo and  Equatorial Guinea , according to the poll and an
analysis of monthly loading programs obtained by Bloomberg News.
Chinese refiners will import 24 cargoes accounting for 49
percent of total purchases from Asia, while 32 percent of
shipments are destined for  India , the survey showed.  More West African crude is likely to be shipped to Asia and
 Europe  as refiners in  North America  cut their purchases to use
the emergency stockpile released from the  International Energy
Agency , according to JBC Energy GmbH. About 4.5 million barrels
a week will be pumped out of the U.S. Strategic Petroleum
Reserve over six weeks starting in July, the IEA said yesterday.
The agency announced the release of 60 million barrels after
exports from  Libya  were choked by an armed rebellion.  “The imminent release of 30 million barrels of light-sweet
crude in the U.S. Gulf Coast has led to a lack of U.S. buying
interest, significantly boosting availability of West African
crude for other regions,” analysts at the Vienna-based
consultants led by Johannes Benigni said in a July 20 note.  Brent-Dubai Spread  The difference between Brent futures and Dubai swaps, which
measures the European benchmark against the Persian Gulf grade,
for next month delivery reached a five-month low of $3.60 on
June 24, according to data from PVM Oil Associates.  The spread averaged $5.60 a barrel from June 16 to July 14
when August was the front-month contract. Traders make more
profit from shipping West African crude to  Asia  when the spread
between the two contracts shrinks.  Most Nigerian and many Angolan grades are trading at lower
premiums to Dated Brent, used to price more than half of global
oil, than in the weeks before the Libyan civil war as extra oil
from the IEA release works its way into the market, JBC said.  Nigeria plans to export 2.26 million barrels a day of crude
next month and Angola will ship 1.61 million barrels, according
to Bloomberg calculation based on loading programs.  The following table shows details of planned Asian imports
of West African crude in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in  London  at   lsu23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net . 