-- 
Asian Currencies Strengthen, led by Philippine Peso, on Greek Optimism

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-07-21T08:51:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/asian-currencies-strengthen-led-by-philippine-peso-on-greek-optimism.html
Asian currencies gained, led by the
Philippine peso, as optimism European leaders will break a
deadlock over a new Greek bailout bolstered demand for emerging-
market assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index hit a 14-year high
after  Germany  said  Chancellor Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy agreed on a joint position on Greece’s debt
situation, boosting the chances of agreement at a summit today
to stamp out contagion in European bond markets. Data today
showed Thailand’s exports increased more than economists
expected in June.  Indonesia  is likely to achieve an investment-
grade credit rating before the end of next year, Fitch Ratings
said this week.  The peso strengthened 0.2 percent to 42.618 per dollar as
of 4:48 p.m. in Manila, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Malaysia’s ringgit rose 0.1 percent to 2.9955 and  China ’s yuan
gained 0.1 percent to 6.4516, earlier touching a 17-year high of
6.4505.  “There’s a brief relief from the European debt situation
now, improving sentiment for riskier assets,” said Shigehisa Shiroki, chief trader on the Asian and emerging-markets team at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo . “Funds have been flowing
into the region, especially to Southeast  Asia . We’ve seen some
positive news for this part of the region, including a possible
credit-rating upgrade.”  Favorable Outlook  Global funds bought $2.7 billion more Indonesian, South
Korean and Thai equities than they sold this month through
yesterday, exchange data show. Developing economies in Asia will
expand 8.4 percent in 2011, outpacing growth of 2.5 percent in
the U.S. and 2 percent in countries using the euro, according to
 International Monetary Fund  estimates released last month.  The peso reached the strongest level since November after
the International Monetary Fund said the near-term outlook for
the economy is favorable. The government’s budget deficit in the
first half was below its ceiling, the Philippine Daily Inquirer
reported today, citing Budget Secretary Florencio Abad. IMF
mission chief Vivek Arora said yesterday the  Philippines  will
likely continue to attract capital inflows given its strong
growth outlook.  “The markets are bullish because of the positive news
flow,” said Dave Estacio, a senior fixed-income trader at First
Metro Investment Corp. in  Manila .  The ringgit strengthened for a third day after a government
report showed inflation quickened, boosting speculation the
central bank will raise  interest rates . Consumer prices
increased 3.5 percent from a year earlier in June, the most in
more than two years, according to data released yesterday after
the markets closed. Economists expected a 3.6 percent gain, a
Bloomberg poll showed.  More Rate Increases  “The so-called agreement between Germany and France on the
Greek debt crisis is driving interest in emerging-market
assets,” said Yeo Chin Tiong, head of financial markets at
Alliance Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “Though Malaysia’s consumer
prices came in slower-than-expected, there is still a case for
the central bank to hike rates if prices continue to rise.”  Central banks in  Malaysia , China, India, South Korea,
Indonesia, Taiwan, Thailand and the Philippines have all boosted
borrowing costs this year, while their counterparts in the U.S.
and  Japan  kept benchmark rates at a maximum 0.25 percent. Bank
Negara Malaysia Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said this week that
containing inflation is a priority as the benchmark policy rate
of 3 percent is “quite low.”  The baht touched an 11-week high as a report showed Thai
exports rose 16.8 percent in June from a year earlier, more than
the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 10 percent gain.
Overseas sales account for about two-thirds of Southeast Asia’s
second-largest economy. The currency was little changed at 29.92.  Elsewhere,  South Korea ’s won added 0.1 percent to 1,054.70
per dollar and the Singapore dollar advanced 0.1 percent to
S$1.2129, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. India’s rupee
was little changed at 44.4675 and Taiwan’s dollar slid 0.1
percent to NT$28.89.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  