-- 
AstraZeneca Rises After FDA Approval of Brilinta Heart Drug

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-07-21T16:25:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/astrazeneca-rises-after-fda-approval-of-brilinta-blood-thinner.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , the U.K.’s second-
biggest drugmaker, rose the most more than two months in  London 
trading after winning U.S. approval to sell the blood-thinner
Brilinta, a rival to the world’s second-best selling drug.  AstraZeneca advanced 59.5 pence, or 2 percent, to 3,092
pence at the close of trading, where the company is based. The
gain was the biggest since May 3.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared Brilinta, which
will compete with top-selling blood thinner Plavix, for use by
patients with severe chest pain or heart attack history to cut
the risk of heart attacks, strokes and death, the agency said
yesterday in a statement. Brilinta’s label must include a boxed
warning, the agency’s strictest caution, about a risk of
bleeding and a reduction in the drug’s effectiveness if taken
with more than 100 milligrams of aspirin a day.  “It will be very difficult for U.S. insurance companies to
deny coverage of Brilinta” because Brilinta was shown to be
more effective than Plavix in the company’s Plato study,  Justin Smith , an analyst with MF Global UK Ltd. in London, said in a
note to investors today.  The FDA delayed a decision in December, asking for more
analysis of the Plato study comparing Brilinta, also known as
ticagrelor, with Plavix, made by New York-based  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY)  and Paris-based Sanofi.  AstraZeneca needs new products as patents expire in the
next four years on the heartburn drug Nexium and the
antipsychotic Seroquel, which generated a combined $10.3 billion
in revenue last year. Brilinta sales may reach $1.14 billion by
2014, according to the average estimate of seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg  European Approval  Brilinta won approval from the European Union in December
under the name Brilique.  Jeffrey Holford, an analyst with Jefferies International
Ltd., wrote in a note today that he has reduced his peak sales
estimate for the drug to $1 billion from $2 billion, citing the
warning on the label and the introduction of generic Plavix in
the U.S. during the second quarter of next year.  Tim Anderson , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in
 New York , said he has a “more modest” sales estimate of $750
million in 2015 due to the introduction of generic Plavix.  “We think the biggest impediment to Brilinta’s uptake will
be the availability of generic Plavix, which will be available
at a fraction of the price of Brilinta,” Anderson wrote in a
note to investors last night.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  