-- 
AT&T Readies New Data on T-Mobile Bid, Prompting FCC to Add Time

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-07-21T19:13:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/at-t-readies-new-data-on-t-mobile-bid-prompting-fcc-to-add-time.html
Regulators gave themselves more time
to review  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed $39 billion purchase of T-Mobile
USA Inc., citing new economic assessments from AT&T about the
deal’s public benefits.  The Federal Communications Commission stopped the clock
yesterday on its 180-day informal timeline to complete the
review of the acquisition, according to a letter posted on its
website. The FCC expects to receive AT&T’s new assessments on
July 25 and will restart the clock once the information has been
received and third parties “have a meaningful opportunity to
comment on the submission,” the letter said.  If completed, the merger, which was proposed March 20,
would combine the second- and fourth-largest carriers to create
a new market leader, ahead of current No. 1 Verizon Wireless.
The FCC and the  Justice Department  are vetting the deal.  “AT&T has developed additional economic evidence that
further confirms the tremendous efficiencies and consumer
benefits resulting from this transaction,” AT&T spokesman
Michael Balmoris said in an e-mail.  Because the information is detailed, “we are not surprised
that the FCC will take the time it needs to thoroughly
understand our submission,” Balmoris said, adding that the
company does not expect it will “adversely impact the timeframe
for approval of our transaction.”  Concerns are building among some U.S. lawmakers that the
deal may harm wireless competition. Senator Herb Kohl, a
Wisconsin Democrat who chairs the Senate Judiciary subcommittee
on antitrust matters, said the transaction would further
consolidate an “already highly concentrated market” in a
letter yesterday to Attorney General Eric Holder and Federal
Communications Chairman  Julius Genachowski .  In a separate letter yesterday to Holder and Genachowski,
Democratic Representatives  Edward Markey  of  Massachusetts , John Conyers of  Michigan  and Anna Eshoo of California said the deal
“raises serious questions regarding the future competitiveness
of the wireless industry.”  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  