-- 
Atlantis Lands in Florida to End 30-Year Shuttle Program After 135 Flights

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u   a n d   J e r r y   H a r t
-- 
2011-07-21T13:39:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/atlantis-lands-in-florida-to-end-30-year-shuttle-program-after-135-flights.html
The space shuttle  Atlantis  landed in
 Florida  today, completing the last of 135 missions over 30 years
that delivered the Hubble telescope into orbit and helped build
the International Space Station.  The four American astronauts, led by Commander Chris Ferguson, touched down at the  Kennedy Space Center  in  Cape
Canaveral , Florida, at 5:56 a.m. after a 13-day mission.  The trip brought “to a close 30 years of space shuttle
history,”  Ferguson said  after disembarking following the pre-
dawn landing. If “we continue with the next generation of space
explorers, I consider our job here complete.”  With the shuttle’s return, the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration leaves the business of low-Earth orbital
flight and will use U.S. companies to develop spacecraft for
taking people and cargo on short trips. It has partnerships with
 Boeing Co. (BA) ,  Space Exploration Technologies Corp.  and others to
build such vehicles as it focuses on missions beyond the moon.  Charles Bolden, NASA’s administrator, vowed in May to take
on the “more risky challenges of deep-space exploration.”  “The things that we’ve done have set us up for exploration
in the future,” he said today after the Atlantis mission.  The shuttle’s demise will eliminate about 9,000 jobs in the
region around the space center, according to  Brevard Workforce ,
a county agency helping workers find new positions. That will
deal a blow to the economy, said Debbie Russell, a clerk at
Integrated Health Applications, a NASA contractor.  ‘It’s Jobs’  “It’s the industry here -- it’s jobs,” Russell, who lives
in Titusville, the closest town to the launch site, said in an
interview yesterday. She didn’t know if she’d keep her post
after September. “It’s kind of like when an automobile plant
shuts down -- it affects the whole town.”  Gerald Griffin, 61, traveled from Meath, outside of Dublin,
Ireland, to see the landing.  “It’s sad there hasn’t been more money put into
research,” he said outside his hotel yesterday. “A lot of
people fail to appreciate the significance of what has been
achieved.”  The shuttle program began with the launch of Columbia in
April 1981. Two orbiters were lost: Challenger exploded after
liftoff in January 1986 and Columbia disintegrated on re-
entering Earth’s atmosphere in February 2003.  The first flight of Atlantis, in October 1985, was a
classified mission for the Defense Department. The spacecraft
pioneered flights to the Russian  space station  Mir. In 1989,
Atlantis was the first shuttle to launch a planetary probe,
sending the Magellan spacecraft to Venus.  Supply Delivery  In its final mission, Atlantis carried supplies and spare
parts to the  space station  in its 12th visit to the orbiting
outpost, which currently houses six crew members. U.S. shuttles
made 46 trips to the station, built by the space agencies of the
U.S.,  Russia ,  Europe ,  Japan  and  Canada .  Atlantis will remain at the  Kennedy Space Center  on display
at the visitors’ center. Discovery will go to a Smithsonian
Institution facility in Virginia and Endeavour heads for the
California Science Center in  Los Angeles . The shuttle prototype
Enterprise will be housed at the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space
Museum in  New York City .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jerry Hart in Miami at   jhart@bloomberg.net 
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  