-- 
Australia Dollar Extends Weekly Gain Versus Yen on Signs of Rising Prices

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-07-22T15:23:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/australian-dollar-advances-toward-week-high-versus-yen-on-european-summit.html
Australia’s dollar climbed for a
second day against the yen as signs of rising prices in the
economy added to prospects that the  Reserve Bank  will raise
 interest rates  rather than considering cuts this year.  The Aussie advanced this week versus the U.S. and Japanese
currencies after data showed import prices increased by more
than economists forecast, preceding a report next week that may
show inflation accelerated to a more than two-year high. New
Zealand’s dollar climbed for a second day against the yen as
gains in stocks and optimism that European leaders will contain
the region’s debt crisis boosted demand for higher-yielding
assets.  “I’m very bullish on the Aussie,” said  Richard Grace ,
chief currency strategist and head of international economics in
Sydney at Commonwealth Bank of Australia. The inflation report
is “going to remove some of these mispricings, in my view, on
interest-rate cuts in  Australia .”  Australia’s dollar rose 0.3 percent to 85.12 yen at 11:18
a.m. in  New York  from 84.89 yen yesterday in New York, extending
gains this week to 1 percent. New Zealand’s currency climbed 0.2
percent to 67.74 yen and was up 1.2 percent since July 15.  The Aussie rose 0.2 percent to $1.0859 and was up 1.9
percent this week. The kiwi dollar gained 0.1 percent to 86.38
U.S. cents, and is set for a five-day gain of 2.2 percent.  Australia’s import prices increased 0.8 percent in the
second quarter from the previous three months, the Bureau of
Statistics said. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast
a 1.1 percent drop. Export prices rose 6 percent. Consumer
prices increased 3.4 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier, the most since December 2008, according to economist
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The report is due July 27.  The market is “too far in terms of the expectations for
RBA cuts,” said  Todd Elmer , head of Group-of-10 currency
strategy for Asia ex-Japan at Citigroup Inc. in  Singapore . “We
think that the next move is actually going to be a hike, not a
cut.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  