-- 
Australia May Toughen Privacy Laws

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-07-21T03:32:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/australia-may-toughen-privacy-laws.html
Australia  may toughen privacy laws
following allegations of phone hacking at the now-closed News of
the World newspaper in the U.K., said Home Affairs and Justice
Minister Brendan O’Connor.  The government will release a paper shortly on whether
Australians should be given the statutory right to sue for
invasion of privacy, O’Connor said in an e-mailed statement
today from Canberra. Melbourne-born  Rupert Murdoch , who is now a
U.S. citizen, shut down News of the World after allegations
reporters from the 168-year-old London tabloid hacked into the
mobile phone of a 13-year-old murder victim.  “Right now there is no general right to privacy in
Australia and that means there’s no certainty for anyone wanting
to sue for an invasion of their privacy,’ O’Connor said. ‘‘The
News of the World scandal and other recent mass breaches of
privacy, both at home and abroad, have put the spotlight on
whether there should be such a right.”  The government will seek a public discussion on the
regulatory change, O’Connor said, arguing any change would need
to strike a balance between freedom of expression and a right to
privacy.  “It would certainly push up the compliance costs for any
media organization,” Mark McDonnell, an analyst at BBY Ltd. in
Sydney, said by phone today. “While a lot of this has been
directed at  News Corp. (NWSA) , any regulation would be across the
sector.”  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ)  fell 1 percent to 92.5 Australian
cents at 12:58 p.m. in Sydney trading.  Australian Division  News Ltd., the Sydney-based Australian division of News
Corp., owns 120 metropolitan, regional and rural newspapers,
including The Australian and the Daily and Sunday Telegraph.
Murdoch, 80, got his start in 1953, when he inherited a daily
newspaper with a circulation of 75,000 in Adelaide, after which
he built a media empire with newspapers, satellite television
and movie studios spanning the globe.  Foxtel, Australia’s largest pay-TV operator which is 25
percent owned by News Corp., reached a final agreement to buy
billionaire  John Malone ’s Austar United Communications Ltd. for
A$1.9 billion ($2 billion) after meeting the conditions of the
offer, the company said in a July 11 statement. Australia’s
competition regulator is due to announce its decision today.  Political Bias  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  and Communications Minister Stephen
Conroy in the past week have accused News Ltd.’s  Daily Telegraph 
of political bias. News Ltd. Chairman John Hartigan on July 14
told Australian Broadcasting Corp. television he was “hugely
confident” there was no unethical behavior in its newsrooms.  “Having seen the kind of reports we’ve seen from the
 United Kingdom , people would be asking themselves: could that
happen here, what does this mean for us in Australia?” Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  said at a media conference broadcast on
Sky News. “The CEO of News Ltd. in this country, John Hartigan,
has been asking some of those questions himself.”  News Corp. last week said it will review all editorial
expenses at its Australian operations over the past three years
to check whether payments to contributors and other third
parties were for legitimate services. Hartigan said there will
be a “thorough review of all editorial expenditure.”  Australian Press Council Chairman Julian Disney said today
he nominated Frank Vincent and Bernard Teague to act as
independent assessors of News Ltd.’s internal review. The
appointments were announced in an e-mailed statement.  The Australian  Greens  have called for an inquiry to set up
a domestic media watchdog. The nation should have an “arms-
length” body to assess acts of media intrusion, Greens party
leader  Bob Brown  said in Canberra on July 14. Brown said he has
no evidence of complaints against Australian media, yet he has
been warned that someone may be listening to his phone calls.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
 News Corp. (NWS)  units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  