-- 
Avocet Among ‘Top Picks’ as Ambrian Says Buy Gold Stocks

-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 
2011-07-21T16:00:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/avocet-adamus-among-top-picks-as-ambrian-says-buy-gold-stocks.html
Avocet Mining Plc (AVM)  and  Adamus
Resources Ltd. (ADU)  are among the “top picks” from junior gold
miners as shares of producers lag behind gains in bullion
prices, Ambrian Capital Plc said.  “Now is the time to buy gold equities,” Ambrian said in
its Gold Sector Review released in London today. “We see a
short-term arbitrage opportunity between undervalued equities
and the current spot price. A sensible investment in quality
gold equities will offer investors greater returns than an
investment in gold alone.”  The benchmark Philadelphia Gold & Silver Index of companies
including  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , Newmont Mining Corp. and AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. has slipped 2.1 percent this year compared with a
13 percent gain in the gold spot price. Gold reached a record
$1,610.10 an ounce on July 19.  Avocet “has demonstrated its exceptional potential for
organic growth,” Ambrian said. “We firmly believe management
can make this a 500,000 ounce-per-annum gold company within five
years.”  Avocet, which operates the Inata mine in  Burkina Faso ,
targets output of 165,000 ounces of gold this year. Ambrian set
a 277 pence target price for Avocet. The company closed 0.9
percent lower at 218 pence in London.  Adamus, which produced its first gold from the Nzema mine
in Ghana this year, may be involved in consolidation in the West
African gold industry, Ambrian said.  “Adamus will play a pivotal role as it is now a producer
with a substantial and prospective gold package,” analysts
Duncan Hughes, Adam Kiley and Nick Mellor wrote in the report.  Ambrian also recommended buying  Ampella Mining Ltd. (AMX)  Ampella
is one of the “most exciting” West African exploration
companies and expects that it will increase the resource of its
Konkera project by the end of the year, Ambrian said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in  London  at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  