-- 
Back-to-School Sales May Be Little Changed as Economy Slows

-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 
2011-07-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/back-to-school-sales-may-be-little-changed-as-economy-slows.html
Back-to-school spending in the U.S.
may be little changed from a year earlier as customers reject
higher clothing prices and the slowing economy restrains
electronics purchases.  Families with students in kindergarten through 12th grade
plan to spend an average of about $603.63 on apparel and
supplies, down less than 1 percent from $606.40 a year earlier,
the  National Retail Federation  said, citing a survey of 8,684
consumers conducted by BIGresearch from July 1 to July 6.  Slowing U.S. economic growth and the 9.2 percent
unemployment rate may weigh on shopping in the season, which
trails only the holidays as retailers’ second-largest sales
period of the year. About 44 percent of shoppers said the
economy was forcing them to spend less, the group said.  “Families aren’t opposed to spending on what they need,
but parents want their children to take a good look around at
what they already have before deciding what to buy for back to
school this year,” said Matthew Shay, president of the
Washington-based NRF, said in a statement.  Total spending for all students, including those in
college, will rise to $68.8 billion from an estimated $55.1
billion a year earlier as the number of students increases, the
report said. College spending will likely fall 3.2 percent to
$808.71 per student from $835.73 a year earlier.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index fell 3.55 points,
or 0.7 percent, to 545.61 yesterday. The 31-company index rose
7.3 percent this year before today after surging 24 percent in
2010.  Sales at U.S. retailers, led by  Target Corp. (TGT)  and Limited
Brands Inc., surpassed analysts’ estimates in June as discounted
merchandise lured shoppers. Stores will charge more for back-to-
school items, especially apparel, because of rising fuel and
commodity prices, said Michael Niemira, chief economist for the
 International Council of Shopping Centers  in  New York .  Retailers are trying to be the first to get shoppers’
attention.  Staples Inc. (SPLS) , the largest U.S. office-supply
retailer, on July 3 began promoting a “Back-to-School-Savings
Pass” that offers 15 percent off of items such as calculators,
backpacks and colored pencils.  In early July, Target posted a college checklist on its
website, recommending items such as dormitory bedding, futons
and desk lamps.  Macy’s Inc. (M)  said in a statement July 18 it will promote
flared denim jeans, plaid polo tops and vintage t-shirts. The
chain also has begun promoting an upcoming Web series called
“Wendy,” a drama that will feature “Camp Rock” actress Meaghan
Martin as a Macy’s-attire-clad teen choosing between romantic
partners.  “More promotion is necessary because consumers are going
to reject higher prices on the apparel side of things,” Niemira
said in a telephone interview.  Soaring Prices  Crude  oil prices  in the U.S. have soared 27 percent in the
past year, making production and delivery more expensive for
retailers. The price of cotton has gained 38 percent, reaching a
record high in March and raising the cost of apparel.  Because of increases in apparel spending, parents will cut
back on buying electronics such as tablets, music players and
laptops for their children, Niemira said. Only half of families
surveyed by the NRF said they would be buying electronics this
year, a 17 percent decline from a year earlier.  Consumer spending  in recent months has been strong and
isn’t likely to drop off, even with the current economic
challenges, Dan Popowics, a  fund manager  at Fifth Third Asset
Management in Cincinnati, said in a telephone interview.  “There is a lot of poor economic news with unemployment,
but back-to-school is a season where people shop for needs,”
said Popowics, whose firm has $18 billion in assets under
management, including Target shares. “So I expect we will have
a modestly positive season.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 