-- 
Banks Offer $1 Billion CMBS Tied to Blackstone’s Centro LBO

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 
2011-07-21T16:47:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/banks-offer-1-billion-cmbs-tied-to-blackstone-s-centro-leveraged-buyout.html
Banks are offering $1 billion in
bonds tied to  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s acquisition of 107 U.S.
shopping centers from  Centro Properties Group (CNP)  as a surge in debt
sales tied to commercial property loans drives up yields.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Barclays Capital 
are selling commercial-mortgage backed securities tied to the
$9.4 billion takeover, according to people with knowledge of the
deal who declined to be identified because terms aren’t public.
The acquisition is the private equity firm’s biggest purchase
since it paid $26 billion for Hilton Worldwide Inc. in October
2007.  Blackstone’s acquisition of the Melbourne-based mall
owner’s U.S. shopping centers is the largest cash purchase of
real estate since the financial crisis that caused the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, Blackstone founder
 Stephen Schwarzman  told investors in a conference call today.
The deal may spur similar deals that use securitization to fund
buyouts, said CRT Capital Group LLC’s  Michael Kim .  “This deal is in the market just a few weeks after
Blackstone purchased most of Centro’s U.S. assets,” said Kim,
an analyst at CRT in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “If the market is
receptive to the offering more private-equity firms may look to
do similar deals.”  Christine Anderson , a spokeswoman for New York-based
Blackstone, declined to comment.  Banks are seeking to unload as much as $10 billion in
commercial-mortgage backed securities through September, with $3
billion set to be sold this week, according to people familiar
with the transactions.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to hold the debt has
increased amid the European debt crisis and signs the U.S.
economic recovery is slowing. Spreads on the safest portion of
commercial mortgage bonds has risen to 222 basis points, or 2.22
percentage points, from 2.09 percentage points at the end of
June, according to a Barclays Plc index.  “There still remains significant distress in the system,”
Schwarzman said today on a conference call discussing the firm’s
second-quarter results. The firm’s “primary focus” in real
estate remains on bankruptcies, recapitalizations and debt
acquisitions, he said.  The Centro deal is tied to properties encompassing more
than 16 million square feet, with no single entity accounting
for more than 3.3 percent of annual rents, according to  Fitch
Ratings . The diversity of the portfolio and Blackstone’s
sponsorship bolster the creditworthiness, according to Fitch.  Blackstone’s $34.1 billion acquisition of Equity Office
Properties Trust, the second largest private-equity deal
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, was financed in part
with $4.9 billion in commercial-mortgage bonds sold in June
2007.  CMBS Sales  Sales of CMBS peaked at $234 billion in 2007, Bloomberg
data show. The CMBS market slammed shut in 2008 amid the seizure
in credit markets, and banks were left holding buyout debt on
their books.  Bank of America Corp. sold $1.56 billion of bonds tied to
the 2007 Hilton buyout in November, Bloomberg data show. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. had planned to sell an additional $1.1 billion
of bonds alongside Bank of America, but pulled out when
investors demanded higher yields, according to people familiar
with the transaction.  Hilton completed a deal in April to reduce debt by almost $4
billion and extend the maturity to November 2015. The 2007 deal
was financed with $20.6 billion of mortgage and mezzanine debt
and about $5.7 billion of equity from Blackstone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  