-- 
Goldman ‘Timberwolf’ Suit Can’t Proceed, U.S. Judge Says

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-07-22T00:21:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/basis-swap-deal-is-australian-can-t-sue-in-u-s-judge-rules.html
A judge dismissed a suit by Basis
Capital, an Australian hedge fund suing  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
for losses related to credit default swaps, ruling that the
complaint failed to show any purchase of securities in the U.S.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones said in a decision made
public today that Basis can’t use U.S. securities laws to pursue
its claims against Goldman Sachs. She gave the hedge fund 30
days to file a new complaint, alleging the sale of securities
occurred in the U.S.  The lawsuit by Basis Capital’s Basis Yield Alpha Fund
focuses on Goldman Sachs’s sale of the “Timberwolf”
collateralized debt obligation. The complaint, filed in June
2010, says the fund was forced into insolvency after buying
mortgage-linked securities created by Goldman Sachs, in what one
Goldman Sachs executive described internally as a “shi--y
deal.”  “We are confident the sale of Timberwolf took place in  New
York ,”  Eric Lewis , Basis’s lawyer, said in an e-mailed
statement. Making that claim in a new complaint is one step for
Basis to “being able to bring Goldman to account for its
fraudulent sale,” he said.  Jones’s ruling follows a decision by the U.S.  Supreme Court 
last year in the Morrison v. National Australia Bank case. In
that decision the Supreme Court said that U.S. securities laws
don’t apply to the claims of foreign buyers of non-U.S.
securities on foreign exchanges.  “Plaintiff fails to provide sufficient facts that allow
the court to draw the reasonable inference that the purchase or
sale was made in the  United States ,” Jones said in the ruling.
“As a result, plaintiff fails to state a claim” that Goldman
Sachs violated the antifraud provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934.  False Claims  In its complaint, Basis alleges that Goldman Sachs falsely
claimed in June 2007 that the market for investments such as
Timberwolf had stabilized. Basis said it closed the Timberwolf
transaction with Goldman Sachs at the same time as  Thomas
Montag , Goldman Sachs’s former head of sales and trading for the
Americas, sent the e-mail calling the Timberwolf CDO “one
shi--y deal.”  The case is Basis Yield v. Goldman Sachs, 1:10-cv-04537,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 