-- 
BC Partners Agrees to Acquire Cable Company Com Hem From U.S. Buyout Firms

-- B y   E d w a r d   E v a n s   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-07-21T17:46:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/bc-partners-said-to-be-nearing-2-6-billion-com-hem-purchase-1-.html
BC Partners  Ltd., a London-based
private equity fund manager, agreed to acquire Swedish cable
company Com Hem AB, gaining a provider of television, phone
services and broadband  Internet access .  BC Partners is purchasing Stockholm-based Com Hem from U.S.
buyout firms Carlyle Group and  Providence Equity Partners ,
according to a statement today. The deal was valued at about
$2.6 billion, a person familiar with the process said before the
transaction was announced.  The price compares with a valuation of 1.9 billion euros
($2.7 billion) cited last month by a person familiar with the
plans who declined to be identified. Carlyle and Providence paid
about 1 billion euros for Com Hem when they acquired it in 2006.  Private equity firms are seeking to buy cable operators as
the shift to digital television and expansion of high-definition
video content increases demand for so-called triple-play
offerings, which combine television, Internet and phone
services. Com Hem, which had 840,600 subscribers across its
services at the end of 2010, competes with  Telenor ASA (TEL)  and
 TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) , the Nordic region’s two largest phone companies.  Buyers in three Western Europe satellite or cable takeovers
paid a median multiple of 12 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization in the past five years,
according to Bloomberg data. The largest deal over that period
was  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) ’s purchase of Unitymedia GmbH, Germany’s
second-largest cable operator, valued at about $5.22 billion
including debt.  Com Hem’s Ebitda was 1.85 billion kronor ($291 million) on
sales of 4.3 billion kronor in 2010, for a profit margin of 43
percent,  according to  the company’s website. The company, which
bills itself as Sweden’s fastest-growing TV operator, said
digital TV subscribers grew 8 percent in the year, while
broadband customers increased 3 percent and telephone customers
7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Evans in London at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net  