-- 
Beach Has Held Talks to Develop Australian Shale Gas Project

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-07-21T03:27:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/beach-has-held-talks-to-develop-australian-shale-gas-project.html
Beach Energy Ltd. (BPT)  has held talks
with “quite a few people” to help develop its shale gas fields
in  Australia , where prospects have already lured  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,
the third-largest U.S. oil company, and  Hess Corp. (HES)   Beach, which is studying a proposed A$1 billion ($1.1
billion) liquefied natural gas plant with Itochu Corp., has had
“numerous inquiries,” Reginald Nelson, managing director of
the Adelaide-based company, said in an interview, declining to
identify any companies or give a timeline for signing an accord.  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company, has
joined a global drive into shale, having chalked up about $20
billion of acquisitions this year. Australia “appears poised to
commercialize its shale gas resources on a large scale,” the
 U.S. Energy Information Administration  said in April.  Major global companies have “missed out in the U.S. and
have now, as you saw with BHP, had to pay full valuations,”
said  Adrian Wood , a Sydney-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.
“If people like Beach get more encouraging results, I suspect
Australia will be more on the radar of the majors.”  Beach, developing shale gas resources in the country’s
Cooper Basin in Central Australia, was unchanged at A$1.05 at
1:20 p.m. in Sydney. The shares have climbed 21 percent in
2011, while the S&P/ASX 200 Index has dropped 3.9 percent.  ConocoPhillips reached an initial agreement with  New
Standard Energy Ltd. (NSE)  to fund $109.5 million of shale exploration
in the Canning Basin of  Western Australia , the Perth-based
company said July 13. New York-based Hess completed an agreement
to join in a shale project in the  Northern Territory , Denver-
based partner Falcon Oil & Gas Ltd. said July 13.  ‘More Activity’  “It’s inevitable we’ll see more activity in Australia,”
Nelson said in a July 20 phone interview.  GAIL India Ltd., the nation’s biggest natural gas
distributor, said last month it may spend as much as $2 billion
on acquisitions, including shale gas assets in the U.S. and
Australia, while Oil India Ltd., the nation’s second-biggest
state-run oil producer, also wants assets in Australia,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Beach reported a flow rate of as much as 2 million cubic
feet a day at the Holdfast-1 shale gas well, the company said
July 12. The explorer expects its first shale gas “resource
booking in the next couple of weeks” and the drilling of pilot
production wells in the first half of 2012, according to Nelson.  Drilling and fracturing expenses in Australia are higher
than those in the U.S. and “longer-term, costs are unlikely to
reach parity with U.S. shale,” Citigroup Inc. analysts, led by
 Mark Greenwood  in Sydney, wrote in a July 13 report. “Marginal
economics may make development challenging.”  Louisiana  Fields  The Cooper Basin in central Australia may rival the
successful Haynesville formation in Louisiana, which BHP has
bought into, Beach said in a presentation last month.  Shale gas prospects previously were considered too costly
and difficult to exploit. Shale-rock formations require
injection of water, sand and chemicals to release gas.
Environmental groups have opposed using the process called
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking.  “The scale of any development is going to be quite huge,”
Nelson said. “Our preference would be to find a partner with
the expertise and the understanding of how to move to full-scale
delivery, and we’d be looking for someone with the financial
substance to move everything forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 