-- 
Belarus Protests Continue as Moody’s Cuts Debt

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   A n d r e w   L a n g l e y
-- 
2011-07-21T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/belarus-street-protests-continue-as-moody-s-cuts-debt-rating.html
Political protests continued in
Belarus yesterday as Moody’s Investors Service warned of
political fallout and downgraded the former Soviet republic’s
debt rating for the second time this year.  Belarus’s foreign- and local-currency government bond
ratings were cut to B3 from B2, the lowest in eastern  Europe ,
Moody’s said in a statement from  New York . Moody’s assigned a
negative outlook to the rating, meaning it’s more likely to
lower it than increase it or leave it unchanged.  The ratings company said it was concerned about “the
likely political and economic fallout” stemming from a shortage
of foreign currency. Reduced support from Russia may also
jeopardize the country’s external accounts, Moody’s said.  Belarus is seeking loans from Russia and the  International
Monetary Fund  to help bridge a current-account gap equal to 16
percent of gross domestic product in 2010. The central bank
devalued the ruble in May and President Aleksandr Lukashenko has
restricted price increases amid protests at the government’s
handling of the economy, including yesterday.  Police closed downtown Minsk to traffic after calls on
social-networking websites encouraged drivers to voice their
disapproval of a 3 percent increase in gas prices. Cars gathered
at a major intersection near Independence Avenue, honking horns
and flying white ribbons from their radio antennas.  Protesters Arrested  Belarusians staged a car blockade in central Minsk last
month after the authorities increased fuel prices by an average
of 31 percent, resulting in fines for some. Almost 400 people
were arrested at anti-government protests during Belarus’s
Independence Day celebrations July 3.  Yesterday’s price increase followed similar moves in  Russia 
and  Kazakhstan , Belarus’s partners in a customs union, state-
owned oil company  Belneftekhim  said in a statement.  Belarus was granted a $3 billion loan from the Russian-led
Eurasian Economic Community’s anti-crisis fund in June on
condition it sell $7.5 billion of state assets. Russia refused
to lower natural-gas prices for Belarus in order to participate
in the sale of Beltransgaz, the gas-pipeline operator.  “Disagreements over energy prices and privatization in
Belarus have led to a fraying of relations between the countries
and lowered the dependability of Russia as a source of external
financial assistance,” Moody’s said.  Supporting the Ruble  Selling state assets will help replenish foreign-currency
reserves, Finance Minister  Andrei Kharkovets  said June 4.  Reserves fell to a 20-month low of $3.59 billion in May as
the central bank sought to support the Belarusian ruble, which
lost more than a third of its value against the dollar that
month. They jumped to $4.15 billion in June as Belarus received
the first tranche of its loan from the Eurasian Economic
Community.  Liquidity and solvency risks in the banking system from
foreign-exchange shortages, the “significant” devaluation of
the local currency and a possible slowdown in economic growth
also influenced yesterday’s downgrade, it added.  Belarus has asked the IMF for loans to prop up its economy.
Lukashenko, labeled Europe’s “last dictator” by former U.S.
President  George W. Bush ’s administration, on June 17 said that
the European Union and the U.S. may try to block IMF aid for
political reasons.  The yield on the country’s 8.75 percent dollar bond
maturing in 2015 fell to 12.602 percent at 20:51 p.m. in Minsk
from 12.714 percent yesterday as asset prices across the region
rallied on optimism the European Union would find a solution to
the Greek debt crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in London at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Langley in London at 
 alangley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  