-- 
Benefit-Cut Talks Put Miami Seniors on Edge, Congress on Notice

-- B y   R o b e n   F a r z a d   a n d   P e t e r   C o y
-- 
2011-07-21T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/benefit-cut-talks-put-miami-seniors-on-edge-congress-on-notice.html
When President  Barack Obama  says
he’s willing to take “significant heat” from Democrats who don’t
want Social Security and Medicare cuts to be part of a debt
deal, he doesn’t mean  Harry Reid  or  Nancy Pelosi . He’s talking
about guys like Mel Safra, 70, owner of Bagel Time in Miami
Beach.  “It’s very sad,” says Safra, who wanted to retire by now
but puts in 12-hour days at his kosher bakery, “this idea that
you can take away money from the elderly who’ve worked for 40 or
50 years.” Safra thinks Obama has mismanaged the budget in a way
that has jeopardized retirement benefits -- so much so that he’s
thinking of voting Republican in 2012, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its July 25 issue.  Everything is up for grabs in traditionally Democratic
Miami Beach these days, as well as in other Sun Belt precincts
where retirees and would-be retirees are nervously watching the
debt-ceiling negotiations in  Washington . Party lines and
entrenched positions are being crossed and dug up left and
right.  While Democrats such as Safra are considering pulling the
other lever, some older Americans are asking whether it’s time
to rethink Social Security and Medicare. Joan Schlossberg, a new
retiree who lives just north of  Boca Raton , isn’t happy about
proposed reductions to the programs, but she says her bigger
worry is what will be left of the entitlements for her progeny.  “This affects our children and their children. Older
parents --- how can they plan on retiring?” she asks. The former
public university staffer, a staunch Democrat, says she is
willing to sacrifice to ensure future generations don’t lose
out.  Echoing the Debate  The chatter in South  Florida  echoes the debate over the
past week in Washington, where many lawmakers are exploring
compromise to make sure they aren’t left on the outside when a
deal is eventually reached. Even Republican House Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia , who has led the opposition to
tax increases, arguing that they are “the wrong policy to pursue
with so many Americans out of work,” said the bipartisan
deficit-cutting plan of the Senate’s Gang of Six includes “some
constructive ideas to deal with our debt.”  There’s a creeping realization that everything is suddenly
in play, both out of political necessity and intergenerational
fairness. Budget negotiations between Congress and the White
House include wrangling over $350 billion in potential Medicare
and Medicaid savings over 10 years.  New Reality  South Florida is emblematic of the new political realities.
Experiencing the worst of the real estate bust, high
unemployment -- Miami-Dade County’s jobless rate now stands at a
record 13.4 percent --- and packed with seniors, the area is a
political testing ground for hard questions that increasingly
will confront the rest of the nation.  Representative  Debbie Wasserman Schultz , the powerful
Democratic National Committee chair who represents much of South
Florida north of Miami, isn’t yet keen to break with the old
talking points on Medicare and Social Security spending.  “We should start by getting rid of tax breaks for
millionaires and billionaires and for  oil companies  making
record profits,” she said in an e-mail to Bloomberg
Businessweek. “What we cannot do is attempt to balance the
budget solely on the backs of seniors, children, and the middle
class.”  The System Works  The congresswoman’s tough line reflects the long-held views
of retirees such as Jerome Radtke. The scooter-bound 72-year-
old, a recent transplant to Miami, simply refuses to believe
that anything will happen to the social programs he relies on.  “Social Security,” he says, “will always be around. They
won’t do away with it, because it’s one of the few government
programs that actually works.”  Other elderly Miamians are more worried than Radtke -- and
more confrontational. David Lifschultz, a  Miami Beach  resident,
takes a break from a tennis game in the 97-degree heat to warn
of a political backlash against any meddling with entitlements.  “It could be that 50 million seniors rise up, stronger than
the Tea Party,” he says. “Call it the Gray Party!”  These are the people Democratic members of Congress fear
when they hear Obama talking about laying social programs on the
negotiating table.  Paranoia Strikes Deep  “It’s impossible to exaggerate the paranoia among Democrats
that Obama will throw them under a bus in an effort to get a
deal that boosts his re-election prospects,” says Gregory R. Valliere, chief political strategist with the Potomac Research
Group. Capitalizing on those fears, the Democratic Senatorial
Campaign Committee, which raises funds for candidates, has vowed
in a mailing to make Republican plans to cut benefits “THE issue
in the next election.”  It’s true that budget cutters may have a tough time
convincing voters they know what they’re doing. National polls
show most Americans still favor leaving Social Security and
Medicare untouched. In June the Pew Research Center found that
only 32 percent of respondents thought cutting the federal
 budget deficit  was more important than keeping Social Security
and Medicare benefits as they are.  Yet in 1995, only 24 percent of respondents thought so.
Quoting the conservative  Heritage Foundation , even the  AARP 
concedes on its website, “Every course of action is going to
include significant changes for someone 50 and older in their
relationship with the federal government.”  “Used to be that nothing would send your congressman into
fight mode like the thought that constituents wouldn’t be
getting their promised benefits,” says Patricia E. Dilley, a
professor at the University of Florida School of Law and former
staffer on the House Ways & Means Committee subcommittee on
Social Security. “That calculus is changing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roben Farzad in New York at 
 rfarzad@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Coy  in New York at 
 pcoy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net ; 