-- 
Blackstone Profit Triples on Gains in Value of Buyout, Property Holdings

-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-07-21T17:50:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/blackstone-profit-triples-on-gains-in-buyout-property-holdings.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
largest private-equity company, said second-quarter profit more
than tripled on gains in the value of its buyout and real estate
investments.  Profit, excluding some costs tied to the firm’s initial
public offering, increased to $703 million, or 63 cents a share,
from $205 million, or 18 cents, a year earlier, New York-based
Blackstone said today. That beat the 33-cent average estimate of
10 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Earnings were helped by an
accounting measure requiring Blackstone to recognize a larger
share of profit in its real estate business.  Rising global markets have helped Blackstone, led by
Chairman  Stephen Schwarzman , distribute profits to investors by
selling some of the companies it owns and taking others public.
The firm has raised about $16.1 billion for a new leveraged-
buyout fund and is seeking about $10 billion to make real estate
deals.  “The real estate segment continues to benefit from
improving fundamentals,” Daniel Fannon, an analyst at Jefferies
& Co. in  San Francisco , said in a note to clients.  Blackstone gained 80 cents, or 4.9 percent to $17.06 at
1:20 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
stock has gained 20 percent this year. Blackstone still trades
at just above half its 2007 IPO price of $31 a share.  Performance fees in real estate increased to $450.3 million
from $37.4 million a year earlier, helped by the accounting
provision. That drove profit in real estate to $453.5 million
from $121.4 million during the period, Blackstone said.  ‘Catch-Up’ Provisions  “A material portion of the increase in revenues was due to
the impact of the ‘catch-up’ provisions of the real estate
funds’ profit allocations,” Blackstone said in the statement.
The provisions “specify that once a fund’s preferred return
hurdle has been reached, Blackstone is entitled to a
disproportionately greater share of the profits until it
effectively reaches its full share of performance fees.”  The value of Blackstone’s real estate holdings gained 6.7
percent in the quarter. Private-equity investments on the whole
increased by 9 percent.  During the second quarter, Blackstone-backed companies
including Kosmos Energy Ltd. went public and the firm announced
that it would sell its stake in Universal  Orlando  for about $1
billion.  Schwarzman told investors today on a conference call that
most of Blackstone’s efforts in real estate are aimed at
bankruptcies, recapitalizations and debt purchases.  Advising Dodgers  Schwarzman, who founded Blackstone in 1985 with  Peter G.
Peterson , has expanded the firm’s non-LBO businesses such as
fund-of-hedge funds and publicly traded debt vehicles. The
firm’s restructuring unit, part of the advisory business, was
hired this month to advise the Los Angeles Dodgers baseball team
during its bankruptcy.  Fee-earning assets under management rose 27 percent to $129
billion. Blackstone’s hedge-fund business accounted for the
largest portion of investments on that basis, with $37.2
billion, 29 percent more than a year earlier.  Private-equity fee-earning assets rose 42 percent to $35.8
billion as Blackstone invested its latest buyout fund. Real
estate assets increased by 17 percent to $27.9 billion.  Blackstone President  Tony James  told reporters on a
conference call that it’s “difficult to find value” in many
private-equity deals as prices remain high and credit is cheap.
He said the firm is focusing in the U.S. on energy deals and is
raising a fund for investments in that industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  