-- 
Blackstone to Sell 29 Canadian Buildings for $881 Million

-- B y   A s h w i n   S e s h a g i r i
-- 
2011-07-21T22:24:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/blackstone-to-sell-29-canadian-office-buildings-to-dundee-for-881-million.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and Slate
Properties Inc. agreed to sell 29 office buildings in  Canada  to
 Dundee Real Estate Investment Trust (D-U)  for C$831.8 million ($881
million).  As part of the agreement, Dundee will sell five of the
properties to third parties for total proceeds of C$142 million,
the Toronto-based REIT said in a statement today. The remaining
24 buildings are in Toronto, Ottawa,  Edmonton  and Calgary and
total 2.7 million square feet (250,000 square meters).  Blackstone and Slate hired CIBC World Markets Inc. earlier
this year to sell the portfolio as demand climbs for well-leased
buildings. The office vacancy rate in downtown Toronto, where 13
of the 24 properties are located, has fallen for four straight
quarters to reach 5.9 percent at the end of June, Dundee said,
citing data from CB Richard Ellis Group Inc.  The portfolio is being acquired at a capitalization rate of
7 percent, Dundee Chief Executive Officer Michael Cooper said in
the statement. The cap rate, a measure of a property’s
investment yield, is calculated by dividing net operating income
by purchase price.  TD Securities Inc. will finance the entire acquisition, and
the properties are being acquired free of mortgage debt, Dundee
said. The transaction is expected to be completed on Aug. 15.  Dundee REIT has acquired about C$826 million of properties
so far this year, according the statement. Those deals were
mostly for office buildings located in primary downtown markets.  Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm, today
reported that its second-quarter profit tripled, helped by gains
from the New York based-company’s real estate investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashwin Seshagiri in New York at 
 aseshagiri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  