-- 
BNP, JPMorgan Ride French Corporate Appetite for Dollar Debt

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-07-22T11:39:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/bnp-jpmorgan-ride-french-companies-appetite-for-dollar-debt.html
The European sovereign debt crisis
is driving French companies to raise funds in the dollar market
at the fastest rate in four years.  Companies sold $37.9 billion of bonds during the first half
in the dollar market, the second-largest amount after 2007 since
Bloomberg began tracking the data in 1999. Paris-based  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in  New York  were the top
arrangers of the offerings as Sanofi-Aventis SA, France’s
biggest drug company, and Pernod-Ricard SA, the maker of Absolut
vodka, tapped the U.S. market for the first time.  “If you had told me five years ago that such French
companies would go to the dollar market, I wouldn’t have
believed it,” said Marc Baigneres, the London-based head of
corporate debt capital markets for France, Belgium and
 Switzerland  at JPMorgan. “But after the crisis, they are much
more attuned to investor-base diversification to manage their
funding program.”  The market slump led by  Greece , Ireland and Portugal,
French acquisitions in the U.S. and a favorable interest-rate
differential are driving companies to borrow in the U.S.
currency. The  European Central Bank  raised  interest rates  by 25
basis points this month to 1.5 percent, while the  Federal
Reserve  has kept its target rate in a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  “While the European market tends to be more susceptible to
volatility and shut down, the dollar market tends to remain open
and be more resilient to shocks,” Baigneres said.  BNP Leads  BNP Paribas, France’s biggest bank, advised on 19 French
dollar-debt issues valued at $9.3 billion in the first half,
giving it a 25 percent market share, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. JPMorgan managed 23 issues worth $4.3 billion for
an 11 percent market share. Excluding self-led issues, JPMorgan
topped the list with a 15 percent market share, while BNP was
ranked eighth.  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, France’s second-largest bank, managed
14 dollar-debt issues worth $3 billion for French companies,
ranking fifth among underwriters after BNP Paribas, JPMorgan,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , according to
Bloomberg data.  Societe Generale developed a markets unit in the  U.S.
dollar  last year “as a testimony to the importance of our
commitment,” said Felix Orsini, the bank’s co-global head of
debt capital markets corporates origination. The Paris-based
bank was granted primary dealer status in February by the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  Sanofi to Pernod  French drugmaker Sanofi sold $7 billion of debt in March,
the largest sale since  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
issued $8 billion of bonds in February 2010, Bloomberg data
show. BNP Paribas, JPMorgan, Societe Generale and  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)  were among arrangers of the debt sale to fund Paris-
based Sanofi’s $20 billion takeover of Genzyme Corp.  In April, Pernod-Ricard sold $1 billion of 5.75 percent
bonds due in 2021. The Paris-based company said it would use
proceeds to repay a portion of its dollar-denominated loans.  French companies are going to the dollar market for
“better pricing” and to get “U.S. dollar funding directly to
avoid cross currency swaps,” JPMorgan’s Baigneres said.  Banque PSA Finance and RCI Banque SA, the financing arms of
French carmakers PSA Peugeot Citroen and  Renault SA (RNO) , also sold
debt in the dollar market in the first half.  “The dollar market is an interesting alternative for
financing when the euro market is closed,” said Francois Abad,
corporate finance relationship manager at RCI Banque, based in a
suburb of Paris. “We wanted to diversify our investor base.”  Vying Markets  Societe Generale’s Orsini said companies seeking longer-
dated bonds might prefer going to the U.S. market at the moment.  “We’re not as long as we used to be in the European
market,” he said. “I think that’s why some have gone to the
dollar or sterling markets.” He said seven-year bonds are the
most common for established companies and five-year bonds for
newcomers.  The dollar market isn’t for all issuers, said Philippe Rakotovao, the London-based global head of debt and credit
markets trading, sales and syndication at Credit Agricole CIB.
It isn’t “an alternative source of liquidity that can replace
the European market” as “French corporates don’t do funding
arbitrage,” to swap the proceeds back to euros, he said.  First-half French corporate borrowings in the euro market
totaled 103 billion euros, including bank and financial issues,
the highest since at least 1999, according to Bloomberg data.
Excluding them, corporate issues declined to 14 billion euros
from 18 billion euros in the same period last year.  Ratings Cuts  Since  Portugal ’s credit rating was cut by Moody’s Investors
Service on July 5, “there hasn’t been an operation in the euro
market,” said Alain Gallois, the Paris-based global head of
Natixis SA’s debt platform. “With the crisis intensifying, we
can expect repercussions on issuers’ spreads.”  Portugal was lowered to Ba2 by Moody’s as the nation joined
Greece as the second euro-region country with a non-investment
grade rating. On July 12, Moody’s cut Ireland’s debt to junk.  “As long as there’s no viable solution to the sovereign
crisis, it can trigger a slowdown in corporate issuances if
spreads widen violently, leading investors to become
defensive,” said Paul Santucci, head of corporate origination
at HSBC  France .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  