-- 
Borders to Seek Approval of Deal With Books-A-Million

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-07-22T02:32:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/borders-to-seek-approval-of-deal-to-sell-30-stores-to-books-a-million.html
Borders Group Inc. won court
approval to liquidate its remaining 399 stores starting
tomorrow, even as the book retailer negotiates with creditors on
a last-minute bid for some sites from  Books-A-Million Inc. (BAMM)   U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in  Manhattan  today
approved Borders’ request to wind down the 40-year-old bookstore
chain, once the second-largest in the U.S. Borders, with about
10,700 employees, said this week that it planned to close all of
its stores in phases by September.  The deal with liquidators was approved over the objections
of 99 landlords and creditors, following an offer this morning
from Books-A-Million for as many as 35 stores that has yet to be
documented or approved by a committee of creditors.  “Hopefully, the Books-A-Million transaction will at least
help some employees with jobs,” Glenn said. He said he couldn’t
approve that deal until he sees a final agreement.  Going-out-of-business sales will begin tomorrow, under the
agreement with liquidators led by Hilco Merchant Resources and
Gordon Brothers Retail Partners LLC. They made the best and
highest offer, according to Borders, after it failed to reach an
agreement with the one bidder that offered to keep the company
running, Phoenix-based private-equity firm Najafi Cos.  Judge Glenn wrote in a court order today that the sale to
Books-A-Million can take place “only with the express written
consent of the debtors, the committee and the agent,” and that
consent “may be withheld for any reason.”  Today’s proposal from Books-A-Million may save 1,000 to
1,500 jobs and boost returns to creditors, said Borders lawyer
Andrew Glenn, no relation to the judge.  ‘Bittersweet Day’  “This is a bittersweet day,” Andrew Glenn told a packed
courtroom. “There are a lot of sad people around the country, a
lot of sad people in the corporate headquarters. But there has
been a late-breaking development.”  Books-A-Million offered to buy about 21 super-stores and
nine smaller stores. Seven of the 30 stores are in  Pennsylvania .
The company also has an option on five more stores, bringing the
potential total to 35, lawyers said. The super-stores include
sites in  Atlantic City ,  New Jersey , and Waterford,  Connecticut .  “We still have to get a firm handle on what the details of
the Books-A-Million deal are and what, if any, incremental value
the five additional stores bring,” said Bruce Buechler, a
lawyer for creditors.  Borders rose 12 percent to 2.8 cents at 3:36 p.m. New York
time in over-the-counter trading, after almost doubling to 4.9
cents. Books-A-Million climbed 6 cents, or 2 percent, to $3.02
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares earlier gained as
much as 9.8 percent.  Inventory Purchase  Books-A-Million would likely buy Borders’s inventory from
the liquidators and use a similar cost structure. The
liquidators agreed to pay about 72 percent of the inventory’s
cost value, which was estimated at $350 million to $395 million.  Landlords would get information about what leases Books-A-
Million would assume on an “informal basis,” Andrew Glenn
said.  The company would prefer to avoid litigation with
landlords, he said.  Books-A-Million, which also runs stores under the names
Books & Co., Bookland and Joe Muggs Newsstands, is based in
Birmingham, Alabama, and operates in the southeastern U.S.  Borders is based in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan , where Tom and
Louis Borders founded the company with one location in 1971. At
its height in 2005, Borders had more than 1,200 bookstores as
far away as  Singapore , 15,000 employees and annual sales of $4
billion.  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , the largest U.S. book chain, has 1,341
stores, including 636 college bookstores, according to its
website.  Borders lost business as customers switched to e-readers
such as Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle, introduced in 2007. Barnes &
Noble invested in its own Nook device to attract customers.  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in  New York 
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 