-- 
Borders Closures Hurt Retail Real Estate Market as Vacancies Near Record

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-07-21T20:13:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/borders-closures-hurt-retail-real-estate-market-as-vacancies-near-record.html
Borders Group Inc.’s liquidation
will increase available U.S. retail space by as much as 6.3
million square feet (585,000 square meters), according to DJM
Realty LLC., as the industry struggles with near-record vacancy
rates and stagnant rents.  DJM Realty plans to auction 259 Borders leases in two
separate sales, probably in August and September, said Andy Graiser, co-president of the Melville, New York-based property-
consulting firm. That’s on top of about 225 stores the book
retailer began closing after its February bankruptcy.  About 859 million square feet of U.S. store space is empty,
according to CoStar Group Inc. Retailers have cut back amid
online competition and a national unemployment rate of more than
9 percent. Borders’ liquidation, approved today by the judge
overseeing its bankruptcy case, is the latest to add vacancies
after more than a dozen national retailers went bust since the
recession in 2008 and 2009.  “It’s another negative factor when we have an abundance of
negative factors in the market,” Ryan Severino, a senior
economist at real estate research firm  Reis Inc. (REIS) , said in a
telephone interview. “It’s adding to the headwinds that
retail’s facing right now.”  Borders, which has 399 stores, hasn’t hired a firm to
handle the disposition of the rest of its locations, which are
smaller outlets averaging 1,300 square feet, said  Mary Davis , a
spokeswoman for the  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based chain.  Increasing Vacancies  The bookseller’s stores are in shopping centers, malls and
stand-alone locations. The vacancy rate at U.S. neighborhood and
community shopping centers rose to 11 percent in the three
months ended June 30, near the record of 11.1 percent set in
1990 and up from 10.9 percent, where it had stood since the
second quarter of last year, New York-based Reis said July 8.  Shopping center owners’ asking rents in the second quarter
fell to $19.03 a square foot from $19.07 a year earlier, the
firm said. Effective rents dropped to an average $16.54 from
$16.58. Regional mall vacancies rose to 9.3 percent, the highest
since Reis began collecting that data in 2000.  Borders, which once had more than 1,000 locations, lost
business as customers switched to e-readers such as  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle, introduced in 2007. It failed to reach agreement
with a bidder, Najafi Cos., on a plan to keep the chain running,
and will start winding down its stores on July 22.  Liquidators Gordon Brothers Retail Partners LLC and Hilco
Merchant Resources LLC bid for and won the right to sell the
bookseller’s assets. DJM, a unit of Gordon Brothers Retail
parent Gordon Brothers Group LLC, was hired to dispose of 259
Borders leases, the company said in a July 18 statement.  Will Lease ‘Well’  “Even though it’s a huge number of spaces being dumped on
the market in bulk, given the quality of the locations I think
they’ll lease up quite well,” John Bemis, director of leasing
at Chicago-based commercial real estate brokerage Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc., said in a telephone interview.  Dick’s Sporting Goods Inc. (DKS) , Best Buy Co. and Books-A-
Million Inc. may be among the retailers interested in Borders
sites, Bemis said.  Paula Baldwin, a spokeswoman for Richfield, Minnesota-based
Best Buy, said the company doesn’t comment on its real estate
plans. Anne-Marie Megela, director of  investor relations  for
Dick’s in Coraopolis,  Pennsylvania , and Terrance Finley,
executive vice president at Birmingham, Alabama-based Books-A-
Million, didn’t return telephone calls seeking comment.  Borders may sell up to 35 stores to Books-A-Million in a
deal involving liquidators, Andrew Glenn, an attorney for
Borders, said today. Books-A-Million has made an offer for about
21 super-stores and nine smaller stores and has an option on
five more. The bankruptcy-court judge told Borders to get the
offer from Books-A-Million in writing.  Centers With Borders  The Borders stores whose leases will be auctioned range in
size from 10,000 square feet to 40,218 square feet, DJM said.
The average size is about 25,000 square feet, according to
Christopher Macke, senior real estate strategist for CoStar, a
Washington-based property data company.  Macke estimates that vacancies at retail centers with a
Borders location may rise to 18.8 percent should all the stores
be shuttered. Before closures, the rate was about 4.2 percent.  Retailers that are growing may find the Borders locations
attractive because they will be able to open new stores in four
months to a year, said Graiser of DJM. The closures also will
allow some landlords to redevelop their properties, he said.  Simon, General Growth  Shopping-center landlords may lose desirable customers
because Borders shoppers tend to be affluent, Macke said.
Property owners also may have difficulty filling some stores if
they plan to subdivide them because the spaces are “fairly
narrow and deep,” Macke said in a telephone interview.  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , the largest U.S. mall owner, and
General Growth Properties Inc., the second biggest, each have 23
Borders stores, according to data from Green Street Advisors
Inc. of  Newport Beach ,  California . Simon, based in Indianapolis,
owns or has stakes in 263 million square feet in  North America ,
 Europe  and  Asia . Chicago-based General Growth’s portfolio totals
almost 170 million square feet.  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  