-- 
Bumi Armada Rises After Malaysia’s Biggest IPO in 2011 on Shipping Outlook

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 
2011-07-21T03:15:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/bumi-armada-rises-after-malaysia-s-biggest-ipo-in-2011-on-shipping-outlook.html
Bumi Armada Bhd., controlled by
Malaysian billionaire T. Ananda Krishnan, surged on its  Kuala
Lumpur  debut after raising 2.66 billion ringgit ($889 million)
in the nation’s biggest initial public offering this year.  The Kuala Lumpur-based company, which provides vessels for
the oil and gas industry, jumped 30 percent to 3.94 ringgit at
11:10 a.m. local time, while Malaysia’s benchmark stock index
fell. It was the most active on the Malaysian bourse with 193
million shares traded. It sold shares at 3.03 ringgit each in
its IPO.  “Oil and gas stocks are good to own,” Lye Thim Loong, who
helps manage about $770 million at Avenue Invest Bhd. in Kuala
Lumpur, said in an interview. It is “trying to be among the top
five in the world,” said Lye, who bought stock in the IPO.  Bumi Armada’s IPO was  Malaysia ’s largest since  Petronas
Chemicals Group Bhd. (PCHEM)  raised a record 12.8 billion ringgit in
November. Demand from institutions exceeded supply by almost 50
times, the company said on July 11. Thirteen of the 21 stocks
debuting in Malaysia this year have risen from their offer price,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The interest has been high all over the world
particularly in  Europe ,” Chief Executive Officer Hassan Assad Basma told reporters in Kuala Lumpur today. “We are very
pleased as you can see from the initial opening.”  Order Book  Bumi Armada has more than 40 vessels and has operated in
over 10 countries such as Brunei, Vietnam, Brazil, Venezuela and
 Mexico , according to the company’s share-sale document. The
company’s net income in 2010 rose 26 percent from a year earlier
to 350.8 million ringgit, or 16.02 sen a share, data from the
document showed. Revenue climbed to 1.24 billion ringgit from
732.1 million ringgit, it said.  It has an order book of contracts totaling 5.8 billion
ringgit, with extension options worth 2.5 billion ringgit,
according to a corporate fact sheet given to reporters in Kuala
Lumpur today.  The stock is rated “buy” at ECM Libra Capital Sdn. with a
share price estimate of 3.91 ringgit, according to a report
today. “Major contracts are all for the long term, hence
providing the group with good earnings visibility,” analyst
Bernard Ching said in the report.  Ananda Krishnan, Malaysia’s second-richest person after
 Robert Kuok , jointly bought control of Bumi Armada in 2002,
before taking it private a year later. He has a history of
delisting and relisting companies, having privatized cell-phone
carrier Maxis Communications Bhd. 2007 before taking it public
again as  Maxis Bhd. (MAXIS)  in 2009 without its international operations.  He has since delisted pay-TV broadcaster Astro All Asia
Networks Plc, satellite operator Measat Global Bhd., and power
and gaming group Tanjong Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  