-- 
Cablevision Infringed Verizon Patent, Trade Agency Says

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-07-21T23:09:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/cablevision-infringed-verizon-patent-trade-agency-says-1-.html
A U.S. trade agency said it will let
stand a judge’s finding that  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  infringed
a patent owned by Verizon Communications Inc. and will consider
banning imports of set-top boxes used by Cablevision.  Verizon filed the patent-infringement complaint last year
at the U.S. International Trade Commission in  Washington ,
seeking an order that would block imports of set-top boxes by
Cablevision. The Bethpage, New York-based company was  cleared  by
the judge of violating four other Verizon patents, and those
findings also were upheld today.  The infringed Verizon patent relates to a method for
accessing the Internet through a television set-top box. New
York-based Verizon’s FiOS fiber-optic Internet and TV service
competes with Cablevision and online video companies for
customers in the New York market.  The claim asserted against Cablevision also is part of an
unrelated civil dispute between Verizon and ActiveVideo Networks
Inc. A trial judge in that case ruled in May that the claim was
invalid. The ActiveVideo case is being tried in federal court in
Norfolk, Virginia.  “This ruling is a significant win for Cablevision,” Jim Maiella, a spokesman for the company, said in an e-mail. “The
ITC rejected four of Verizon’s five claims in the case, and the
underlying patent in the fifth claim had already been
invalidated by a Virginia court, which late last month rejected
a motion by Verizon to reconsider that decision.”  Robert Varettoni, a spokesman for Verizon, said the company
had no immediate comment.  Promoting FiOS  The commission said it is seeking input on whether to order
a ban on imports of the set-top boxes for the violation of
Verizon’s patent. The commission “must consider the effects of
that remedy upon the public interest,” it said in a notice
posted on its website today. It is scheduled to make a final
decision on Sept. 20.  Verizon, the second-largest U.S. phone company, is adding
new programming to promote FiOS. Sales from Verizon’s wireline
business, which includes FiOS and the declining home-phone line
business, fell 2.2 percent to $10.1 billion in the first
quarter, the company said in April. Verizon is scheduled to
report second-quarter earnings tomorrow.  Cablevision is seeking to cut spending on set-top boxes by
incorporating video-recording technology in its network. The
company’s first-quarter sales increased 9.7 percent to $1.92
billion, Cablevision said in May. It’s expected to report
second-quarter earnings on Aug. 5.  Verizon also filed a civil suit against Cablevision,
seeking cash compensation for the use of its inventions. That
case, filed in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware , has been
put on hold until the ITC completes its investigation.  The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain Digital Set-Top
Boxes, 337-712, U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington). The related civil case is  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ)  v. Cablevision Systems Corp., 10cv216, U.S. District Court
for the District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  