-- 
California to Seek Bids for $5 Billion Bridge Loan Amid U.S. Deficit Talks

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-07-21T20:08:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/california-to-seek-bids-for-5-billion-bridge-loan-amid-u-s-deficit-talks.html
California will seek bids for a $5
billion bridge loan next week to have cash available ahead of
any disruption to the credit markets if U.S. lawmakers fail to
raise the federal debt ceiling, Treasurer Bill Lockyer said.  Proceeds would be used to help pay bills until the state
can sell an estimated $5 billion of so-called revenue-
anticipation notes, or RANs, which had been scheduled for late
August, according to a statement issued by Lockyer’s office
today. Without the short-term securities, the state may run out
of cash as it did in 2009, when it issued $2.6 billion of IOUs.  President  Barack Obama  and Congress are negotiating to
raise the U.S. debt ceiling and avert a default before an Aug. 2
deadline.  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service have
said they may lower the U.S. government’s AAA credit rating if
the talks falter.  “The notes will be privately placed, rather than sold in
the market,” Lockyer spokesman  Tom Dresslar  said in the
statement. “If the president and Congress reach an agreement to
raise the debt ceiling before we award the bids, we could pull
the plug on the sale.”  The state has invited investment banks, commercial banks,
 credit unions  and investment funds to bid for the loan, Dresslar
said in an interview. Bids will be accepted and the deal will be
awarded on July 26, according to Lockyer’s statement.  California used a $6.7 billion bridge loan from  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and five other banks in October, when a record 100-
day budget impasse prevented Lockyer from issuing RANs. The
notes are commonly used for  cash flow  before the bulk of taxes
is collected later in the year.  Paying Off Loan  “The state still will go to the market at some point to
sell about $5 billion of regular RANs,” Dresslar said. “The
proceeds of that sale would be used to pay off the bridge loan,
if that transaction is completed.”  California paid 1.4 percent on the October loan, which was
repaid when Lockyer sold $10 billion of RANs at the end of
November. The sale included $2.25 billion of notes that came due
in May with a yield of 1.5 percent and $7.75 billion that
matured in June at 1.75 percent.  The May notes yielded 98 basis points, or 0.98 percentage
point, more than top-rated one-year debt at the time and the
June notes yielded 123 basis points more, Municipal Market
Advisors data show. California sold $8.8 billion of such notes
in September 2009 and $5 billion the year before.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  