-- 
Canada Dollar Reaches Three-Year High on Rate-Rise Speculation, Bonds Fall

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-07-21T21:05:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/canada-s-currency-fluctuates-as-european-leaders-hold-debt-crisis-summit.html
Canada ’s dollar appreciated to the
strongest in more than three years versus the greenback after
 statements  this week from the Bank of Canada led investors to
raise bets  interest rates  will increase this year.  The loonie, as the currency is commonly called, weakened
against the euro for a second day after European leaders enabled
their 440-billion euro ($633 million) rescue fund to buy debt
across stressed eurozone nations. Crude oil, Canada’s largest
source of export revenue, rose for a third day.  “It’s getting harder and harder for the Bank of Canada to
justify the low interest rates as inflation starts to creep up
higher,” said Aaron Fennell, a futures specialist at Bank of
Nova Scotia’s ScotiaMcLeod unit, by phone from Toronto. “At
some point, they’re going to have to start raising rates and
they may have to raise rates quite a bit before we’re said and
done to get to a more normal interest rate. Long-term, you have
to be bullish the Canadian dollar.”  The currency rose as much as 0.5 percent to 94.23 cents per
 U.S. dollar , the strongest level since Nov. 9 2007, and traded
at 94.28 cents at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It ended yesterday at 94.74
cents. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0602.  The seven-day relative strength index of the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart rose to 71. Readings above 70
indicate a currency’s advance may be difficult to sustain.  Crude oil futures gained 1.2 percent to $99.31 a barrel in
 New York .  European Discussions  European leaders met in Brussels seeking solutions for
their 21-month sovereign debt crisis.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  reiterated support for the
euro after the summit closed, saying it’s an “irreplaceable”
achievement of  Europe . He said a bailout fund will operate in
secondary markets.  Greece  will receive additional aid of 109
billion euros ($157 billion), according to the European Union.  Spooked by a bond market selloff last week, leaders
empowered their 440-billion euro rescue fund to buy debt across
stressed euro nations after eight hours of talks in Brussels.
The fund can also aid troubled banks and offer credit-lines to
repel speculators. Leaders pledged a 160 billion euro aid
package for Greece, eased the terms of its existing loans and
cajoled bondholders into footing part of the bill.  The fund can also aid troubled banks and offer credit-lines
to repel speculators. Leaders pledged a 160 billion euro aid
package for Greece, eased the terms of its existing loans and
cajoled bondholders into footing part of the bill.  “All eyes are on euro and what’s going on over there and
their discussions,” C.J. Gavsie, managing director for foreign
exchange trading at Bank of Montreal, said by phone from
Toronto.  Bonds Fall  Canadian  government bonds  fell, pushing the yield on
benchmark 10-year bonds six basis points higher to 3 percent.
The price of the 3.25 percent security due in June 2021 fell 51
cents to C$102.14.  Consumer prices advanced 3.6 percent in June from a year
earlier, after a 3.7 percent gain in May,  Statistics Canada  may
report tomorrow in Ottawa, according to the median forecast of
24 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Bank of Canada on July 19 kept its benchmark policy
rate at 1 percent and said borrowing costs will rise, omitting
the word “eventually,” which had appeared in previous
statements. The bank also raised its forecast for inflation.  “To the extent that the expansion continues and the
current material excess supply in the economy is gradually
absorbed, some of the considerable monetary policy stimulus
currently in place will be withdrawn,”  Bank of Canada  Governor
 Mark Carney  said in remarks at a press conference yesterday.  The loonie has weakened 1.2 percent this year versus the
currencies of nine other developed nations, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  