-- 
Carbon Capture Hopes Dim as AEP Says It Got Burned at Coal Plant

-- B y   K e n   W e l l s   a n d   B e n j a m i n   E l g i n
-- 
2011-07-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/carbon-capture-hopes-dim-as-aep-says-it-got-burned-at-coal-plant.html
On a brittle, blustery afternoon on
the outskirts of New Haven,  West Virginia , the faint odor of
ammonia isn’t the only sour note in the air. New Haven, an Ohio
River coal mining town of 1,550, is home to American Electric
Power Co. Inc.’s 1,300-megawatt Mountaineer Plant. The plant has
a 1,103-foot-tall chimney and burns 12,000 tons of coal a day to
generate electricity for AEP’s 11-state grid, which supplies
power to 5.3 million customers.  In the process, it annually belches out 8.5 million metric
tons of greenhouse gas carbon dioxide. Abutting the plant is an
ambitious $100 million experiment: a seven-story, steel-and-
fiberglass rectangle, corralled by dull metal catwalks and
rattled by motors and pumps. The apparatus traps a portion of
the plant’s carbon-dioxide-rich exhaust using an ammonia-based
catalyst. (Hence the acrid smell.) The reclaimed CO2 is pumped
8,000 feet underground, where, in theory, it will remain
harmlessly out of the atmosphere. The goal of the experiment is
to prove that carbon capture and storage technology, or CCS,
works, and in so doing, provide one possible solution to global
warming, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its July 25 issue.  This year catastrophic storms, drought, and relentless heat
have underscored how welcome such a solution would be. According
to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration , 2011
continues the trend of rising temperatures that has seen nearly
every year of the 2000s hotter, on average, than the 1990s, and
the 1990s hotter than the ’80s.  Coal’s Share  Coal generates 40 percent of the world’s electricity -- a
number that could grow to 60 percent by 2030, according to a
2009 report by the Coal Industry Advisory Board of the
 International Energy Agency . (Developing countries are expected
to account for 97 percent of that growth because they have
almost no alternatives.)  Coal is also “the world’s most CO2-intensive fossil fuel,”
accounting for more than 40 percent of all energy-related CO2
emissions, the report says. CCS, say climate scientists, has
emerged as the lead technology in the race to reduce global
 greenhouse gases  50 percent by 2050. And when the  New Haven 
project -- hitching one of America’s largest power companies to
the U.S. Energy Department’s carbon capture bandwagon -- was
launched in 2009, there was a sense of determination and common
cause. “It’s time to advance this technology for commercial
use,” declared AEP Chief Executive Officer Michael G. Morris.
The company planned to replace its pilot with a larger $668
million CCS facility, which would bury more than 1 million
metric tons of CO2 a year, splitting construction costs evenly
with the Energy Department. Environmentalists heralded the
project.  Serve as Bridge  Timothy O’Connor, a  climate-change  policy analyst for the
Environmental Defense Fund, a New York-based advocacy group,
says “carbon storage can help serve as a bridge until we get to
those zero and ultralow carbon energy sources that wean us from
fossil fuels.”  Yet only two years in, the future of CCS is in jeopardy. On
July 14, AEP pulled the plug on its CCS efforts, citing a weak
economy and the “uncertain status of U.S. climate policy.” CEO
Morris said AEP and its partners “have advanced CCS technology
more than any other power generator with our successful two-year
project to validate the technology. But at this time it doesn’t
make economic sense to continue.”  The dimming of CCS’s promise reflects a broader national
retreat from the goal of reversing climate change. In private
and, to some degree, in public, the company and its executives
express frustration that they tried to do the right thing --
only to end up burned.  Prospects Dimmed  With the Obama Administration’s political capital spent on
a bruising fight to overhaul health care in 2010, the prospects
for meaningful climate legislation dimmed. The Republican
takeover of the House last November made climate policy even
more remote. Outside  Washington , interest in funding  carbon
capture  technology has also withered. AEP sought to recover a
portion of its CCS pilot costs by asking for a $74 million rate
increase from Virginia utility regulators. The reply was no.  “There are currently no laws mandating carbon capture,”
stated a brief from the Virginia Attorney General’s office,
which advocates on behalf of consumers. “Any potential benefit
is speculative and outweighed by the enormous cost of the pilot
project.” The rebuffs more than stung, says AEP President Nick Akins.  “This stuff is very expensive to do,” says Gary O.
Spitznogle, AEP’s director of new technology development.
“Without a regulatory mandate, you won’t see utilities deploy
this.”  ‘Height of Optimism’  “Two years ago was the height of optimism,” says Howard J.
Herzog, senior research engineer for the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology Energy Initiative who has tracked CCS technologies
and research from the outset. Now, without a price on carbon,
“the finances are tough. Every other week you hear of a project
being canceled. It’s not a pretty picture.”  It’s easy to see why carbon capture once seemed so
appealing. It could significantly reduce carbon emissions while
keeping coal, still the nation’s chief source of electric power,
central to the energy mix. In 2010, President Barack Obama
unveiled a goal to bring five to 10 commercial-size CCS
demonstration plants on line in the U.S. by 2016. Leaders of the
Group of Eight, which includes the U.S.,  Russia , and  Japan ,
embraced in 2008 a goal to launch 20 large-scale CCS
demonstration projects by 2010 with “broad deployment” of the
technology by 2020. All told, governments worldwide committed
$22.5 billion to support CCS since the start of 2008, according
to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. An MIT website that tracks
worldwide CCS projects lists 68 scattered across 15 countries,
45 of them associated with coal-fired  power plants .  Projects Canceled  Yet since the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2010, at
least five large-scale CCS projects have been canceled or
postponed, while the fate of several others remains doubtful,
according to interviews with a dozen project developers by
Bloomberg Businessweek and research by Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. The government in Queensland,  Australia , pulled the
plug last December on its long-promised ZeroGen project, which
would have created a 530 megawatt coal plant that captured and
buried its CO2 emissions underground. Australian taxpayers had
spent $150 million funding the project.  In the U.S., Bismarck, North Dakota-based Basin Electric
Power Cooperative’s plans to retrofit a coal plant in Beulah to
capture some of its CO2 were shelved in December amid the
project’s rising costs, despite a $100 million federal grant.
One month later, Omaha-based Tenaska Inc.’s plans to build a
power plant in Taylorville, Ill., that would capture 50 percent
of its CO2 emissions were thrown into limbo when the state
senate voted down a proposal that would have required electric
utilities to buy more costly power from the proposed $3.5
billion facility.  Duke’s Ready Plant  Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ,
meanwhile, is embroiled in a long-running controversy with
consumer advocates over its planned $2.9 billion Edwardsport,
Ind., coal gasification plant, which is designed to be “carbon-
capture ready.” James E. Rogers, Duke’s CEO, has defended the
plant -- already $900 million over
Budget -- as a forward-looking investment in so-called clean
coal technology that will produce “about 10 times the
electricity of an existing conventional coal-fired plant yet
with significantly less environmental impact than the plant it
is replacing.” Critics say the plant won’t capture any carbon to
start with, and rates will be four to five times more expensive
than even wind energy.  For all its hype and promise, the challenges of extracting
carbon dioxide from smokestacks, compressing it, transporting
it, and pumping it underground, where it is supposed to stay for
eons, remain daunting.  Parasitic Load  Costs are a core obstacle, notably those related to what’s
called the parasitic load, defined as the amount of energy
consumed in the process of removing CO2 from power plant
exhaust. Estimated to be $60 to $95 per metric ton of CO2
captured, these costs could add 81 percent or more to consumer
power bills, according to a November 2010  Energy Department 
report. The DOE says its goal is to get those costs down to no
more than 30 percent of the price of electricity generated by
conventional coal plants and 10 percent more than the price of
coal-gasification plants.  Why is CCS so expensive? Based on results so far, storage
capacity isn’t the driving cost factor. A 2010 DOE report
estimated that between underground saline formations, oil and
gas fields, and unmineable coal areas, the U.S. and  Canada  alone
have up to 5,700 years of carbon sequestration capacity.  Small Refinery  But capturing carbon is another matter. The clattering,
odiferous Mountaineer pilot required the company to add the
equivalent of a small, energy-intensive refinery on to the side
of the power plant. As AEP’s Spitznogle explains, power plant
exhaust is sucked into the capture unit, cooled, and mixed with
a chilled ammonia-based solvent, causing the CO2 to precipitate
out as a slurry that gets reconverted to a gas. It is compressed
into a liquid state, and then pumped into deep, porous
underground formations by a series of injection wells. All of
which increases the parasitic load.  When the AEP project went on line in 2009, the goal was
modest: to capture and bury up to 1.5 percent of Mountaineer’s
carbon dioxide. When the project shut down, the New Haven plant
had captured about 37,000 metric tons of CO2, a fraction of its
target. Spitznogle says that separating out the carbon using
“complex chemistry” proved challenging.  “We were pretty sure there would be fits and starts. This
is an R&D system, with zero redundancies built in. If one piece
of equipment fails, the whole system comes down until that piece
gets fixed. … This caused us to be up and down a lot.” He adds:
“I don’t know anyone who was disappointed with the amount of CO2
we put in the ground in that first year.”  ‘Everything in Limbo’  If CCS is to work out in the end, he and others agree, the
number of pilot projects must increase. “The only way to bring
down the cost is to start building a lot of these projects,”
says David G. Victor, director of the Laboratory on
International Law and Regulation at the University of
 California , San Diego. Again, “the absence of a price on carbon
puts everything in limbo.”  The fate of CCS technology is inextricably tied to the
controversy over clean coal, a debate which has helped drive a
wedge in the green community since many environmentalists --
citing the ecological harm in coal’s extraction, including the
process of mountaintop removal -- simply don’t believe coal can
ever be made “clean.” But perhaps the biggest blow to CCS’s
reputation as a clean technology originated at a farm in
southeastern Saskatchewan, about 40 miles above the North Dakota
border.  Foaming and Bubbling  Starting in 2004, landowners Cameron and Jane Kerr of
Weyburn complained of strange foaming and bubbling, as well as
poisoned animals and explosions “like cannons going off” on
their property, which adjoins the Weyburn oil field. With crude
reserves estimated at 1.4 billion barrels, Weyburn doubles as
the oldest and largest carbon capture and storage site in  North
America . Frustrated by what the Kerrs call a lack of response
from Canadian regulators and Calgary-based  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE) ,
which operates the field, the Kerrs had an independent petroleum
engineer assess their property.  They went public with the findings in January 2011 only,
they say, after sending the report to Cenovus and regional
regulators and getting no response. Elevated levels of CO2 were
present, the report concluded, and the carbon dioxide is
“clearly the anthropogenic CO2 injected into the Weyburn
reservoir.” Serious leaks from huge carbon storage sites can be
fatal to humans and livestock if not addressed.  Cenovus Plans Study  Denying that they have been slow to respond, Cenovus --
along with the  Petroleum Technology Research Center , a nonprofit
research group -- have since challenged the Kerrs’ report and
plan their own study; the Kerrs have since moved 70 miles away.
But the damage had been done. The Kerrs fielded calls from media
outlets across  Europe , the U.S., even  South Korea , fanning
alarmist concern when “public confidence in this technology is
not well-established,” says George Peridas of the Natural
Resources Defense Council’s Climate Center in  San Francisco .  Despite the halting progress made toward developing CCS,
the coal industry continues to extol its promise. A video clip
on the  website  of the American Coalition for Clean Coal
Electricity (ACCCE), a coal industry group that includes AEP,
Basin Electric, and Tenaska as members, shows a coal company
engineer with short cropped brown hair, an earnest smile, and a
blue dress shirt unbuttoned at the collar. He moves about a lab,
looking through a microscope and examining a computer screen, as
he talks confidently about the future of achieving “clean coal”
through the capture and storage of CO2.  ‘Make a Difference’  “There absolutely is such a thing as clean coal
technology,” he says, as the video pans across an illuminated
city skyline at dusk. “I am quite confident that we will capture
carbon dioxide at the kind of levels that we’re going to need to
make a difference.”  The industry group, with this and other messages, nurtures
the impression that CCS is around the corner, yet this can-do
attitude has begun to fuel the suspicion of environmentalists,
such as Bruce Nilles, deputy conservation director at the Sierra
Club. He points out that the ACCCE, according to lobbyist
filings, has spent tens of millions of dollars opposing climate-
change legislation, including the 2009 American Clean Energy and
Security Act, known as Waxman-Markey.  ‘No Closer Now’  “CCS is being used as an excuse to delay action on
regulating our existing fleet of coal-fired power plants,” says
Nilles. “They’ve been talking about it for eight to 10 years,
and we’re no closer now than we were then to breaking ground on
these demonstration projects.”  At present, no other technology comes close to matching the
potential of CCS in the fight against global warming. The
International Energy Agency projects that CCS will have to
account for 20 percent of all CO2 reductions if the 2050 goal to
cut worldwide greenhouse gases by half of current levels is to
be met. Without a successful CCS program, the costs will be 70
percent greater, the agency says. “If we don’t implement carbon
capture and storage,” says John Thompson of the Clean Air Task
Force, an environmental advocacy group, “it’s probably game over
on climate change.”  To contact the reporters for this story:
Ken Wells in New York at 
 kwells8@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Elgin in San Francisco at 
 belgin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bradford Wieners at   bwieners@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  