-- 
Carney’s Message in a Box Cools Talk of Rapid Canada Interest Rate Rises

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-07-21T04:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/carney-s-message-in-a-box-cools-talk-of-rapid-canada-rate-rises.html
The  Bank of Canada  sent a message in
a box to economists such as Bill Robson, CEO of the C.D. Howe
Institute, who say interest rates must rise quickly to levels
that don’t stimulate growth because the country’s economy will
soon complete its rebound from recession.  The central bank used a special “technical box” near the
end of yesterday’s 31-page quarterly  forecast  to say it could
keep its policy rate at a stimulative setting even after a full
recovery with inflation on target, should the economy face
“headwinds” that hamper growth.  The bank said in its box its “key message” is that its
policy interest rate “can return to its long-run level after
inflation is projected to reach the 2 percent target and output
is projected to reach its potential. This contrasts with the
assumption that the policy rate should always be at its long-run
level when inflation is at target and the output gap is
closed.”  Governor  Mark Carney  amplified that message yesterday,
telling reporters, “You cannot mechanically assume that because
the output gap on our projection is closed in the middle of
2012, that the bank’s target interest rate will be back at
neutral,” referring to an interest rate that neither stimulates
or restricts economic growth.  The message comes after seven of 22 economists in a June
Bloomberg survey forecast the bank would lift its key rate to
2.5 percent from 1 percent by the middle of next year -- when
Carney says the economy will be at full capacity.  Clear Message  Carney’s message was clear, some economists said. “That
box really caught my eye,” said  Rudy Narvas , a senior economist
with Societe Generale SA in  New York . “It suggests that there
will be pauses” in rate increases, he said by e-mail.  The technical box “is a defense against those who assert
the Bank of Canada is behind the curve, which I don’t buy,”
said  Scotia Capital ’s vice-president of economics  Derek Holt  by
telephone from Toronto. Holt predicts a 2.25 percent rate at the
end of 2012.  The bank’s argument doesn’t apply to the current situation
because inflation already rose above 2 percent before the
economy reached full output, Robson said. “We aren’t in the
world described by the box,” he said by telephone. “This is an
argument for spiking the punch bowl.”  “The bank is anxious to justify sticking with the 1
percent rate even though a lot of pretty intelligent critics
have argued it’s past time” to raise it, Robson said.  Main Goal  The bank’s main goal is to keep inflation at 2 percent.
Policy makers have said if the economy is operating above its
potential, it can spark inflation.  A majority of nine economists on the C.D. Howe’s monetary
policy council  called on  the bank last week to raise interest
rates at its July 19 meeting, because the economy could soon be
operating beyond its full potential. Some on the panel, which
includes academic and financial-market economists, said “the
overnight rate needs to move some distance toward a more neutral
level, and should start moving soon,” the institute said.  Carney, 46, said yesterday that the box was intended to
show that the bank’s policy-making isn’t automatic.  “If anyone is of the view that this is that simple, then
the box serves a purpose,” Carney told reporters. The bank
“doesn’t function according to some mechanical rule that
dictates where monetary policy should be.”  “If we were on auto-pilot right now according to some
mechanical rule, we would be ignoring the very real headwinds to
this economy, from the dollar, from the U.S., from  Europe ,”
Carney said.  While the message may damp expectations about how far and
how fast the bank might move, Carney reiterated that his target
interest rate for overnight loans between commercial banks,
which has been unchanged since September, won’t stay at 1
percent forever.  “As the recovery continues to progress, as some of the
considerable, material excess supply in the economy is used up,
monetary policy can be expected to move away from exceptionally
stimulative levels,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 