-- 
McDonald’s Frozen Lemonade Boosts Profit as Food Costs Increase

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-07-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/mcdonald-s-frozen-lemonade-boosts-profit.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  may report its
eighth straight quarter of profit growth, the longest streak in
13 years, as beverages such as frozen strawberry lemonade combat
rising costs that are making hamburgers less profitable.  The world’s largest restaurant chain is expected to say
tomorrow that profit rose to $1.28 a share and revenue climbed
to $6.65 billion, the average of analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  McDonald’s is the most successful of fast-food restaurants
trying to replicate the high-margin beverage sales of  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX) , said Steve West, a Stifel Nicolaus & Co. analyst. As meat
costs rise, McDonald’s has advertised its McCafe drinks, which
contribute as much as 80 percent of their price to profit,
compared with about 60 percent from hamburgers, he said.  “No one has been able to do it until McDonald’s,” said
West, who’s based in  St. Louis  and recommends buying the shares.
“They promote the frozen beverages for warmer months and
they’ll go back to the McCafe during the winter months.”  The Big Mac seller, which introduced McCafe specialty
drinks in the U.S. in May 2009, has added mango-pineapple
smoothies and ads urging customers to “Drinkcessorize.”
Beverages make up about 20 percent of sales at McDonald’s
stores. The company has boosted earnings-per-share excluding
items in every quarter starting with the third quarter of 2009.  McDonald’s, based in  Oak Brook ,  Illinois , rose 6 cents to
$86.27 yesterday in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.
The shares gained 12 percent this year before today.  Arby’s, Popeyes  Other fast-food chains have tried to match McDonald’s
success. The Arby’s roast-beef chain, acquired by Roark Capital
Group from Wendy’s Co. this month, has been advertising a
limited-time jamocha Oreo milkshake as a part of its “Good Mood
Food” campaign. Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen, owned by  AFC
Enterprises Inc. (AFCE) , is hyping a beverage made with lemonade and
Fanta strawberry soda.  The more profitable beverages are taking the sting out of
commodities costs that are rising faster than McDonald’s can
boost prices. The company said in April that commodity prices
may rise as much as 4.5 percent in the U.S. and  Europe  in 2011.  “We’ll have to take some price increases along the way,
but it won’t equal the total inflationary increase of the
commodity cost,” Chief Executive Officer James Skinner said
during a conference in June. The fast-food chain raised food
prices 1 percent in March because of ingredient costs.  McDonald’s may raise its estimate for commodity costs again
tomorrow, said Mark Kalinowski, a New York-based analyst at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC. He advises buying the stock.  Commodity Costs  Yum! Brands Inc., operator of the Taco Bell and KFC chains,
said last week that U.S. commodity costs may gain as much as 7
percent this year. The Department of Agriculture last month
 forecast  U.S. food costs may rise as much as 4 percent in 2011.  The profit margin at McDonald’s company-operated stores
narrowed to 17.7 percent in the first quarter from 18.2 percent
a year earlier. The decline was primarily due to higher
commodity and labor costs, the company said in a  filing  with the
U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission.  In the second quarter, the margin at company stores may
contract 0.8 percent from last year, according to Matthew DiFrisco, an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets in New York, who
has a “buy” rating on the shares. Margin expectations for
McDonald’s have “cooled a little bit” because of mounting
meat, dairy and wheat prices, he said.  Biggest Beef User  McDonald’s is the biggest beef user of all U.S.
restaurants, according to Kevin Good, a senior analyst at
CattleFax in Centennial,  Colorado . U.S. ground beef prices
jumped to $2.77 a pound in June, a 16 percent increase from a
year earlier, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  First-quarter net income advanced 11 percent from a year
earlier to $1.21 billion, or $1.15 a share. The average estimate
of 11 analysts is for second-quarter net income to rise to $1.34
billion.  The eight quarters of profit growth would be the longest
since a streak of at least 29 quarters that ended in 1998.  McDonald’s has almost 33,000 stores worldwide, 80 percent
of which are franchised.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   Rajello@bloomberg.net  