-- 
Celanese to Make Low-Cost Ethanol From Gas if U.S. Policy Changes

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-07-21T21:26:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/celanese-to-make-low-cost-ethanol-from-gas-if-u-s-policy-changes.html
Celanese Corp. (CE)  would make low-cost
ethanol for U.S. motorists using natural gas if policy makers
end subsidies for corn-based production and amend the law that
allows only renewable sources of the fuel additive.  Celanese can make ethanol from natural gas for about $60 a
barrel, one-third less than the corn-based process encouraged by
a 45-cent-a-gallon federal subsidy, Chief Executive Officer
David Weidman said today in a telephone interview. Celanese has
begun building a demonstration plant and research center in
Clear Lake,  Texas , where it plans to begin production in mid-
2012.  The tax credit and a 54-cent-a-gallon tariff on ethanol
imports from  Brazil  would end this month under a compromise
reached in the Senate, Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California
Democrat, said July 7. Feinstein said at the time she hopes the
deal is included in a deficit-reduction package that President
 Barack Obama  is negotiating with Congress.  Celanese also is seeking legislation amending the Energy
Independence and Security Act to permit gas-derived ethanol,
Weidman said.  “We are working on and are very optimistic about progress
being made to find legislation that achieves those twin
objectives,” Weidman said from  Dallas , where the company is
based. “We need to be on a level playing field with other raw-
material bio-feedstocks.”  New Ethanol Plants  Celanese may someday enter fuel markets around the world
with ethanol plants built near gasoline producers under long-
term agreements to provide guaranteed quantities of ethanol at a
fixed price plus costs, Mark Oberle, a Celanese spokesman, said
in a separate interview. That would eliminate the risk of fuel-
market volatility for Celanese, he said.  Celanese currently plans to make hydrocarbon-based ethanol
for industrial customers that use the material as a chemical
ingredient. The company plans to use its  TCX technology  at its
acetyls plant in Nanjing,  China , to make 200,000 tons of ethanol
a year derived from coal in mid-2013.  Celanese also plans to build a coal-to-ethanol plant near
its Nanjing site that would open in mid-2014 and produce 400,000
tons a year, expandable to 1.1 million tons, Oberle said. A
similar plant may be built soon after in Zhuhai near  Hong Kong ,
he said.  Celanese today reported second-quarter net income rose 27
percent to $203 million, or $1.28 a share, from $160 million, or
$1.01, a year earlier. Excluding costs to fire employees,
relocate a German factory and other one-time items, profit was
$1.66 a share, topping the $1.43 average estimate of nine
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Celanese rose $3.04, or 5.6 percent, to $57.66 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest gain
in 12 months. The shares have increased 40 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 