-- 
Celesc May Sell Part of Generation Arm in 2012 to Fund Expansion

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-07-21T14:38:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/celesc-may-sell-part-of-generation-arm-in-2012-to-fund-expansion.html
Centrais Eletricas de Santa Catarina
SA (CLSC6) , the electric utility controlled by the southern Brazilian
state of Santa Catarina, may sell off part of its generation arm
by mid-2012 to fund new renewable projects.  The company is in the process of selecting a bank that will
procure a “strategic partner,” to help double its installed
capacity by 2014, Michel Becker, technical director at Celesc
Geracao, the company’s power unit, said yesterday in a phone
interview.  Celesc Geracao has 12 small hydroelectric plants online
with total capacity of 82.6 megawatts, which generate a fraction
of its revenue. The new small hydroelectric or wind farms may
cost as much as 500 million reais ($321 million) to build,
Becker said.  “Our idea, which is still in the design phase, is to open
up control of Celesc Geracao,” he said. “We’re not just
looking for an investor but a company with know-how that’s
active in energy.”  The new partner may have expertise in technologies other
than small hydroelectricity, like wind farms, which could play a
larger role in Celesc’s future energy mix, he said.  As  wind energy  becomes cheaper with falling equipment
costs, hydroelectric plants are getting more expensive since
“all the best sites are occupied,” he said.  “Maybe next year we could invest in wind,” he said.  Generation comprised 1 percent of Florianopolis, Santa
Catarina-based Celesc’s gross revenue for the first quarter,
with 97.3 percent derived from its electricity distribution
networks, according to the company’s  results .  The state government of Santa Catarina owned 50 percent of
Celesc’s voting shares and 20 percent of its ordinary shares as
of March 31, according to the results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net  