-- 
Centrica Needs Government Backing for Nuclear, Evolution Says

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-07-21T15:05:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/centrica-needs-government-backing-for-nuclear-evolution-says.html
Centrica Plc (CNA) , the U.K.’s biggest
energy supplier, shouldn’t build nuclear power plants with
Electricite de France SA unless the British government accepts
some construction risk, according to Evolution Securities.  “In new nuclear, Centrica is a minority holder, in a
technology in which it has no institutional understanding, and
where as emphasised by Flamanville, construction risk is
notorious,”  Lakis Athanasiou , an analyst at Evolution, said in
a note to investors today.  EDF, Europe’s biggest generator, said yesterday that stress
tests following the Fukushima atomic disaster and fatal
accidents have raised the cost and delayed the start of its new
reactor at Flamanville in Normandy. The Flamanville plant is a
showcase for the ‘third-generation’ nuclear technology the
utility wants to export globally.  EDF acquired all of the U.K.’s atomic plants in 2008 before
selling a 20 percent stake to Centrica.  The French utility said yesterday that it is in the final
stages of licensing the EPR design for use in the U.K. The
company plans to announce an adjusted timetable for building the
plants after the release of a report by Chief Nuclear Inspector
Mike Weightman later this summer. EDF wanted to complete the
first of four new reactors at Hinkley Point in southwest  England 
by 2018.  Estimated Cost  The EPR at Flamanville will cost around 6 billion euros
($8.5 billion) and start selling power commercially in 2016,
compared with a previous estimate of around 5 billion euros and
2014, the Paris-based company said. Before the disaster at
Fukushima, U.K. Energy Minister  Charles Hendry  said new nuclear
plants may cost as much as 6 billion pounds ($9.7 billion) a
reactor.  The U.K. is in the process of modernizing its energy
market. Changes include long-term contracts that give power
producers guarantees designed to help them attract finance for
offshore  wind turbines , nuclear reactors and  carbon capture  and
storage projects.  British utilities need to spend as much as 200 billion
pounds to replace aging  power plants  and upgrade transmission
networks by 2020, according to energy regulator Ofgem.  EDF is developing EPRs in China and has plans for more in
the U.K. and the U.S.  EDF operates 58 nuclear reactors in France and 16 in the
U.K. Fifteen of Britain’s 19 operating reactors, which account
for 18 percent of generation, are operated by EDF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 