-- 
Chavez Slams Referee for ‘Robbed’ Goal in Venezuela Semifinal Soccer Loss

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-07-21T13:54:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/chavez-slams-referee-for-robbed-goal-in-venezuela-semifinal-soccer-loss.html
Venezuela ’s President Hugo Chavez,
who is being treated for cancer in Cuba, said he would complain
to soccer’s governing body in  South America  after a referee
“robbed” a goal in his country’s semifinal loss to  Paraguay  in
a regional tournament last night.  Paraguay beat Venezuela 5-3 in a penalty shootout after a
goalless draw in a game that stretched past midnight in Mendoza,
 Argentina . Venezuelan defender Oswaldo Vizcarrondo had a 35th
minute header goal waved off by Mexican referee Francisco Chacon
for being offside.  Chavez, a baseball fan who once aspired to be a
professional pitcher, said in messages posted on his  Twitter
account  that he watched the game with former Cuban President
 Fidel Castro . Venezuela, which had reached its first semifinal
in the 95-year-old Copa America tournament, was “robbed of a
victory goal,” he wrote.  “I think we should raise our voices because we have the
authority to do so before CONMEBOL,” Chavez said in a Twitter
message, referring to South America’s soccer federation. “Why
the devil did that referee disallow such a spectacular goal? Was
one of our glorious artillerymen offside? None of them! Fidel
and I both saw clearly the goal they took away from us.”  Chavez flew to Cuba July 16 to receive chemotherapy, saying
he would be back “in a few days.” The socialist leader was
operated on June 20 in the communist island to remove a
baseball-sized tumor in the pelvic area after doctors discovered
an undisclosed form of cancer during an operation to remove an
abscess June 11.  Soccer Surprise  Before departing Chavez delegated some powers to his
ministers while rejecting demands from his opponents he cede
power during his absence. Chavez, who has used Twitter to
announce policy initiatives in the past, said technology will
allow him to communicate with his cabinet and electronically
sign laws from Cuba.  Venezuela, which has never qualified for a  World Cup  and is
better-known as a supplier of talent to  Major League Baseball ,
surprised its South American rivals by advancing deep into the
elimination round of the 12-nation tournament. After drawing
even against five-time World Cup champion  Brazil  in the group
stage, Venezuela defeated Chile 2-1 in the quarterfinals.  Paraguay will face Uruguay in the Copa America finals July
24, while Venezuela will face off against Peru for third-place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  