-- 
China’s Sportswear Industry May Expand 18% This Year, Xtep Says

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 
2011-07-21T00:59:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/china-s-sportswear-industry-may-expand-18-this-year-xtep-says.html
     July 21 (Bloomberg)-- China ’s sportswear industry will grow
between 15 to 18 percent this year and next as the country’s
wealth continues to spur demand for shoes and clothing,
according to  Xtep International Holdings (1368)  Ltd.  Xtep, part-owned by the  Carlyle Group , will continue to
open stores in smaller Chinese cities where there’s room for
expansion, Chief Financial Officer Terry Ho said in a July 19
interview in Hong Kong. “China is still a very good market”
and sales grew at least 20 percent in the past four quarters, he
said.  The clothing maker has lost 19 percent since July 7, when
bigger rival  Li Ning  Co. forecast a decline in first-half sales.
Li Ning has plunged 33 percent in the same period, while another
sportswear maker,  China Dongxiang Group Co. (3818) , owner of the Kappa
brand in China, has slumped 28 percent. Dongxiang said on July 8
that first-half sales probably shrank by 45 percent from a year
earlier.  “We have the room and space to increase roughly a few
hundred stores per year,” Ho said. “ The store expansion is
natural following the market expansion.”  Xtep has 7,300 stores and may add about 500 by the end of
2011, Ho said. The Fujian-province based company targets mass-
market customers in second-tier cities, selling sports shoes and
apparel at lower prices than Li Ning or China Dongxiang.  The company has focused expansion outside Beijing,
 Shanghai , Guangzhou, and Shenzhen. Eighty percent of its stores
are in smaller cities, Ho said.  Li Ning dropped to its lowest close in more than two years
on July 7 after saying sales are expected to fall 5 percent in
the six months ended June 30 because of higher costs and
strengthening competition. Its profit margin may narrow to as
low as 6 percent from 13 percent a year earlier, it said.  Editors: Frank Longid,  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  