-- 
China Connects First Fast Nuclear Reactor to Electricity Grid

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-21T10:29:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/china-connects-fast-nuclear-reactor-to-grid.html
China  connected to the electricity
grid an experimental nuclear reactor that produces less
radioactive waste than current designs, in a move that may help
the nation build safer atomic plants after the Fukushima crisis.  The 65-megawatt  fast-neutron reactor  near Beijing connected
to the grid at 40 percent capacity today, Xu Mi, chief engineer
at the experimental fast reactor program of the China Institute
of Atomic Energy, said by telephone. The reactor was built by
the institute with help from the Russian government.  China continues to promote the development of nuclear power
even after it stopped approving new plants pending safety
reviews following the March 11 accident at  Japan ’s Fukushima
Dai-Ichi plant, the worst atomic disaster since Chernobyl 25
years ago. France, the U.S. and U.K. are among countries
developing the next generation of reactors based on fast-neutron
technology that uses uranium fuel more efficiently.  “This is a pretty big breakthrough, as in the reactor is
actually producing electricity,” Dave Dai, regional head of
utilities research at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets, said by
telephone from  Hong Kong . “This basically means they can go
ahead in terms of schedule for the real commercial ones.”  The experimental fast reactor took a decade to build and
achieved criticality, or started controlled and sustainable
generation, exactly a year ago, according to a  report  by the
China Institute of Atomic Energy published on the website of
China National Nuclear Corp., the nation’s biggest operator of
atomic plants. China started fast-reactor research in the mid-
1960s, it said.  Fast Reactors  Fast reactors reduce radioactive waste compared with
existing operational designs by using most of the fuel during
the nuclear reaction,  according  to the World Nuclear Association.  The reactors utilize up to 70 percent of uranium feedstock
compared with 1 percent for existing pressurized water reactors,
such as the AP1000 design by Westinghouse Electric Co.,
according to the report published by China National Nuclear.  About  20 fast reactors  have been operating around the world,
some since the 1950s, the nuclear association said on its
website. France and  Russia  run commercial plants based on the
technology, it said.  “The next step for us is to increase the generating
capacity of the reactor to 100 percent while connected to
grid,” China Institute’ Xu said. “After that, we can use the
technology to build our own commercial fast reactors.”  Fourth Generation  China plans to start construction of a 1-gigawatt fast
reactor at Sanming city in 2018 using home-grown technology, Xu
said. State-owned China National Nuclear will start building two
800-megawatt fourth-generation reactors using Russian designs in
2013 or 2014, he said. The reactors will also be at Sanming.  The nuclear industry has developed several generations of
reactors starting with the first in 1950-1960s, according to the
website of the World Nuclear Association. There are no such
reactors outside the U.K. today. The second generation units are
used in the U.S. and  France , while early third-generation
reactors have been operating in Japan since 1996, according to
the nuclear association.  “Generation IV designs are still on the drawing board and
will not be operational before 2020 at the earliest,” the group
said.  China will build more fast reactors of greater than 600
megawatts in capacity starting 2015 and start commissioning them
from 2030, Xu said on May 13.  Safety Review  China plans to conclude safety checks on all its nuclear
plants by October, completing one stage of a nationwide review
of its atomic power industry following the Fukushima crisis.  The country, planning to build more nuclear reactors than
any other nation, said on March 16 it suspended approval of all
new atomic projects until a safety review is carried out.
China’s existing reactors use second-generation technology, the
official Xinhua News Agency said on July 22.  China started its first commercial nuclear plant in 1994
and currently has the highest number of atomic facilities under
construction, according to data from the  World Nuclear
Association .  The nation has 13 generators in commercial operation while
28 are being built, the Ministry of Environmental Protection
said in June. China may have more than 100 atomic reactors by
2020, it said.  Japan’s 40-year-old Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant was crippled
by an earthquake and tsunami on March 11, causing radiation
leaks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 