-- 
China Swaps Surge to Record High on Reserve-Ratio Hike Concerns

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-21T02:58:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/china-swaps-surge-to-record-high-on-reserve-ratio-hike-concerns.html
China ’s interest-rate swaps surged
to a record high on speculation the central bank will boost
lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios to help contain inflation.  The seven-day repurchase rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, rose for a fourth day even as the central
bank injected 19 billion yuan ($2.9 billion) into the financial
system this week. The People’s Bank of China issued 6 billion
yuan of three-month bills today, the least this month, and
didn’t offer any 91-day  repurchase agreements , according to
traders at primary dealers required to bid at the auctions.  “Banks expect more reserve-requirement-ratio hikes,” said
 Frances Cheung , senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong
Kong . “I would think now 4 percent is a more realistic floor
for the seven-day repo, and of course near-term there could be
spikes above it.”  China’s central bank has ordered banks to set aside more
cash as reserves in each of the last eight months and lifted
 interest rates  three times this year. Inflation accelerated to a
three-year high of 6.4 percent in June.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, climbed 11 basis
points to 4.19 percent as of 10:22 a.m. in Shanghai, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest level in
Bloomberg data going back to 2006.  The seven-day repurchase rate advanced 26 basis points to
5.75 percent in Shanghai, according to a weighted average rate
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  --Judy Chen. Editors: James Regan, Andrew Janes  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 