-- 
China Banking Regulator Steps Up Risk Controls on Local Government Loans

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-21T08:05:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/china-will-increase-oversight-of-property-loans-to-curb-risks-cbrc-says.html
China’s banking regulator  said it
will step up oversight of local government financing vehicle
loans and property-related credit in the nation’s smaller cities
in the second half of this year.  Banks should control the risks of new loans tied to the
financing vehicles through “strategic cooperation” with local
governments, stronger management of land-backed lending and
accurately assigning risk-weightings based on actual cash
coverage of projects, the regulator said. The  statement  posted
on the China Banking Regulatory Commission’s website yesterday
cited a speech by Chairman  Liu Mingkang .  China’s first audit of local government debt found
liabilities of 10.7 trillion yuan ($1.7 trillion) at the end of
last year, 79 percent of which were bank loans, the  National
Audit Office  said last month. As much as 30 percent of the local
government financing vehicles’ loans may fail and become the
biggest contributor to banks’ bad debts, ratings agency  Standard
& Poor’s  has said.  “A clean-up of the local government debt is likely to
require some combination of a bailout by the central government
and bank write-offs over the next several years,” economists
led by Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA’s Alicia Garcia Herrero said in a note to clients today.  Lack of Information  China  can avoid and eliminate an “outburst” of risks tied
to local debt, Jia Kang, head of the finance ministry’s research
institute,  wrote  in a commentary published in the overseas
edition of the People’s Daily today.  It was difficult to regulate local government debt in the
past due to lack of transparency, Jia said. The findings by the
country’s auditor provided a complete picture, enabling
different government departments to liaise in controlling risks
of such debt, he wrote.  A measure tracking property stocks on the Shanghai
Composite Index lost 1.7 percent to close at a one-month low.  The banking regulator said it will also strengthen its
oversight on property lending, particularly risks in real estate
in so-called second and third-tier cities, without elaborating
which areas are covered by those categories.  The Chinese government is increasing efforts to curb the
growth in residential prices in smaller cities after limiting
home purchases in Beijing and  Shanghai . The State Council said
last week that second and third-tier cities that have seen
excessive price gains should restrict the number of homes each
family is allowed to buy.  Still, the CBRC asked banks to “actively support” the
construction of public housing and boost lending to small-sized
enterprises, according to the statement.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  