-- 
Cisco’s 6,500 Job Cuts Could Hurt Push for Offshore Tax Holiday

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-07-21T16:24:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/cisco-s-6-500-job-cuts-could-hurt-push-for-offshore-tax-holiday.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ’s plan to
eliminate about 6,500 jobs worldwide is complicating the
corporate lobbying campaign for a tax holiday that would allow
multinational companies to return $1 trillion in offshore
profits to the U.S. at a low tax rate.  The  San Jose , California-based company, the world’s largest
networking-equipment maker, has been among the most vocal
supporters of a repatriation holiday being considered in the
 U.S. Congress . Cisco chief executive  John Chambers  has said he
wants to return as much as $30 billion in overseas profits to
the U.S. The company could increase its headcount by 10 percent,
depending on details of a repatriation bill, he said before the
job-elimination announcement.  The cuts at Cisco, which include 2,100 employees who took a
voluntary early-retirement program, were announced July 18 as
the push for a repatriation holiday gained support on  Capitol
Hill . Democrats including Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York 
signaled their backing in recent weeks for repatriation measures
that would include  job-creation  requirements.  Other Democrats said Cisco’s job-cut announcement confirms
their concerns about a repatriation holiday’s potential effect
on U.S. corporate employment levels.  “As a leading proponent of this corporate tax giveaway,
Cisco is announcing massive layoffs instead of investing in
American job creation with the billions it already has
available,” Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Once again, it is clear that
large multinational corporations have no intention of using any
repatriation tax windfall to create jobs.”  ‘Restructuring’ Move  Jennifer Dunn, a Cisco spokeswoman, said yesterday the job
cuts are part of a “restructuring to simplify our organization
and refine operations.”  “Repatriation is not about Cisco or an individual
company,” she said. “Repatriation will provide a near-term
boost to the entire  U.S. economy , level the playing field for
American businesses and make us more competitive as a nation.”  Cisco rose 48 cents to $16.30 at 12:19 p.m. today in New
York trading.  Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican who sits on
the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee, introduced
legislation in May that would allow companies to repatriate
funds at a 5.25 percent  tax rate  compared with the top 35
percent corporate rate. His bill includes a provision that would
require companies to add $25,000 to their taxable income each
time they reduce their total workforce below the firm’s average.  Tax Overhaul  The Obama administration has said repatriation should be
considered only as part of an overhaul of the U.S. tax code.  Representative Sander Levin of Michigan, the top Democrat
on the Ways and Means Committee, said yesterday he wasn’t sure
Cisco’s job cuts had anything to do with its support for a
repatriation holiday. It does raise questions, he said.  “We need to find out whether they’re outsourcing any of
their functions, what the cause of the layoffs might be,” he
said. “I’d like to know what their employment plans are.”  Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat who chairs the
Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, sent Cisco a
letter June 29 asking how the company would use repatriated
funds. Levin, who sent a similar letter to DuPont Co., has said
the inquiries are part of an investigation, and a report will be
issued soon.  Job Creation Issue  One of the biggest questions in the repatriation debate is
whether companies will use the money they return to the U.S. to
create jobs.  Jim Rogers , president and chief executive of  Duke
Energy Corp. (DUK) , said in June that the $1.3 billion he wants to
repatriate to the U.S. would create 15,000 to 20,000 jobs at his
company and across the broader economy.  Democrats said a tax holiday in 2004 didn’t create jobs as
advertised.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , for instance, returned $14.5
billion to the U.S. and reduced its workforce by 14,500
employees in a year.  “The model that was constructed a few years ago said that
money was being returned at 5.25 percent for job creation and
instead layoffs at many big employers were announced almost
simultaneously,” said Representative Richard Neal, a
Massachusetts Democrat and a member of the Ways and Means panel.  Dunn, the Cisco spokeswoman, said the company hired about
1,200 engineers after the 2004 holiday.  Along with Cisco, 43 companies and trade groups, including
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and Duke Energy, have joined a coalition
lobbying for a repatriation holiday.  Doug Thornell, a spokesman
for the WIN America coalition, said the effort “isn’t about
just one company.”  “It’s about the benefit to the broader economy,” he said.
“It’s whether we continue a failed policy that lets a trillion
dollars languish overseas when our economy desperately needs the
help.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Steven Sloan in
Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  