-- 
Consumers in U.S. Relying on Credit as Inflation Erodes Incomes

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-07-21T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/consumers-in-u-s-relying-on-credit-as-inflation-erodes-incomes.html
Consumers in the U.S. are
increasingly using credit cards to pay for basic necessities as
income gains fail to keep pace with rising food and fuel prices.  The dollar volume of purchases charged grew 10.7 percent in
June from a year ago, while the number of transactions rose 6.8
percent, according to  First Data  Corp.’s SpendTrend report
issued this month. The difference probably represents the
increasing cost of gasoline, said Silvio Tavares, senior vice
president at First Data, the largest credit card processor.  “Consumers, particularly in the lower-income end, are
being forced to use their credit cards for everyday spending
like gas and food,” said Tavares, who’s based in Atlanta.
“That’s because there’s been no other positive catalyst, like
an increase in wages, to offset higher prices. It’s a  cash-flow 
problem.”  Rising costs of food and gasoline are leaving Americans
less money to spend discretionary items, slowing the pace of the
recovery, Tavares said. Household spending accounts for about 70
percent of the world’s largest economy.  After-tax income adjusted for inflation fell 0.1 percent
from January through May, according to figures from the Commerce
Department. The drop came as Labor Department data showed energy
prices rose 8.2 percent and food climbed 2 percent during the
same period.  ‘Dramatic’ Swings  The swings in purchases of fuel and food have been
“dramatic,” Tavares said. The volume of gasoline purchases
placed on credit cards jumped 39 percent last month from a year
earlier, compared with a 21 percent increase in June 2010, he
said. Food shopping increased 5 percent after falling 7 percent
last year.  The value of an average transaction on credit cards
outpaced the gain for  debit cards , showing consumers are
increasingly relying on borrowing to pay for gasoline and other
necessities, Tavares said.  The figures are in synch with data from the  Federal
Reserve . Revolving credit, primarily credit card balances,
increased by $3.37 billion to $793.1 billion in May from an
almost seven-year low of $789.8 billion in April, figures from
the central bank showed. The gain was equivalent to a 5.1
percent increase at an annual rate.  The use of credit cards is a “smoking gun” that indicates
some consumers, including the long-term unemployed who have lost
jobless benefits, are resorting to other sources of cash flow
just to “get by,” said  David Rosenberg , chief economist at
Gluskin Sheff & Associates Inc. in Toronto.  “People on the margin are putting necessities on their
credit cards and this is a trend that’s very consistent with
what lower-end retailers have been saying about their paycheck
cycles,” Rosenberg said.  ‘Cash-Strapped’  Core customers of Bentonville, Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  are “cash strapped,” William Simon, U.S. stores
chief, said at a June 15 conference hosted by William Blair &
Co. “The paycheck cycle is severe.”  Similarly, customers of Matthews, North Carolina-based
 Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO)  are living “paycheck-to-paycheck,”
so when gas or food prices go up, “they don’t have the cushion
that many others might have,” Chairman and Chief Executive
Howard Levine said on a June 29 conference call.  Changes within the industry may account for some of the
recent stabilization in outstanding revolving credit as several
banks have ended incentive programs for debit cards, while
increasing credit-card solicitations this year, Tavares said.  A possible bright spot is that inflation may moderate as
prices of commodities stabilize, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said July 13 in his semi-annual testimony to Congress. As of
July 19, the average price of a gallon of unleaded gas had
dropped 7.6 percent from May 4, when it reached an almost three-
year high.  Bernanke’s View  “The anticipated pickups in economic activity and  job
creation , together with the expected easing of price pressures,
should bolster real  household income , confidence, and
spending,” Bernanke said.  Confidence has a long way to climb for those in the lower-
income brackets. The sentiment gauge for those making less than
$15,000 a year was minus 66 in the week ended July 10 and was
minus 69.6 for those earning $15,000 to $24,999, according to
the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index. The comparable reading for
households making more than $100,000 was minus 1.4.  “For people to think that this rebound in credit-card
usage is actually a sign of resurging  consumer confidence , I
think they’re looking at the situation backwards,” Rosenberg
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  