-- 
Copper Futures Fall Most in Four Weeks as Manufacturing Declines in China

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-07-21T18:10:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/copper-falls-for-second-day-as-manufacturing-may-shrink-in-top-user-china.html
Copper futures fell the most in four
weeks on signs that demand is dwindling in  China , the world’s
largest metal user.  Preliminary data showed a gauge of Chinese manufacturing
slid to a 28-month low this month. The final report is due Aug.
1. Copper prices have dropped 5.9 percent from a record $4.6575
a pound in February as China raised borrowing costs to cool
inflation, and debt woes in  Europe  and the U.S. threatened the
global economy.  “China has been struggling with tight credit for some
time,” Julien Garran, an analyst at UBS AG in London, said in a
telephone interview. “We’ve also got Europe deteriorating and
slowing demand in the West, as well as in other emerging
markets. For us, that means the fundamentals are turning down.”  Copper futures for September delivery fell 5.25 cents, or
1.2 percent, to close at $4.3835 at 1:09 p.m. on the Comex in
 New York , the biggest drop for a most-active contract since June
23.  The metal will face “a setback in the summer” before
rebounding in the fourth quarter, Mike Frawley, the global head
of metals at Newedge USA LLC in New York, said yesterday in an
interview. The outlook is “positive” in the long term as
demand rises in emerging markets, he said.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months declined $75, or 0.8 percent, to $9,680 a metric ton
($4.39 a pound).  Zinc and nickel also fell in London. Lead and aluminum
rose, while tin was unchanged.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in  London  at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  