-- 
Credit Suisse' Walder Charged by U.S. in Tax Case

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-07-22T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/credit-suisse-banker-indicted-by-u-s-in-tax-conspiracy-case.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s former head
of North America offshore banking, Markus Walder, was among
seven bankers charged with conspiring to help clients in the
U.S. evade taxes through secret bank accounts.  The seven bankers and an eighth executive were charged
yesterday in an amended indictment in federal court in
Alexandria,  Virginia . Four of the Credit Suisse bankers were
previously charged. The new defendants include Walder, Susanne D. Ruegg Meier, a former Credit Suisse manager, and Andreas
Bachmann, another former banker at the Zurich-based lender,
Switzerland’s second largest.  The indictment increases pressure on Credit Suisse, which
said July 15 that the Justice Department notified it that was a
target of a criminal probe over former cross-border private
banking services to U.S. customers. The U.S. is pursuing banks,
bankers and advisers that encouraged American taxpayers to hide
accounts from the Internal Revenue Services.  “Managers and bankers working in the cross-border business
knew and should have known that they were aiding and abetting
U.S. customers in evading their U.S. income taxes,” according
to the indictment.  Walder, a Swiss resident, supervised teams of private
bankers in Geneva and Zurich who worked in an unregistered
private banking business in the U.S., and was a senior manager
in a business registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, according to the indictment.  $3 Billion in Assets  Walder and others helped U.S. customers evade income tax
through accounts not declared to the IRS, according to the
indictment. In the fall of 2008, the bank maintained thousands
of secret accounts for U.S. customers with as much as $3 billion
in assets, according to a  Justice Department  statement.  The indictment traces how the bankers helped 35 American
customers hide their funds in undeclared bank accounts. One of
the accounts was opened in 1953 by a resident of Elizabeth, New
Jersey, by an individual identified only as “customer 26.”
That person died in 1998 and the account was taken over by
another Credit Suisse customer, the indictment said.  “Credit Suisse is committed to a fully compliant cross-
border business,” the bank said in a statement yesterday.
“Subject to our Swiss legal obligations and throughout this
process we will continue to cooperate with the U.S. authorities
in an effort to resolve these matters.”  Already Charged  Those bankers already charged on Feb. 24 were Marco Parenti Adami, Emanuel Agustoni, Michele Bergantino and Roger Schaerer.
They live in  Europe  and have not appeared yet in U.S. court.  The indictment yesterday also named Josef Dorig, the chief
executive officer of a trust and asset management company owned
by the bank.  Separately yesterday, federal prosecutors in  New York 
accused Beda Singenberger, 57, a Swiss financial adviser, of
conspiring with more than 60 U.S. taxpayers to hide more than
$184 million in offshore accounts.  According to the indictment against the Credit Suisse
bankers, while operating an illegal U.S. cross-border business,
the bank made false filings to the  Federal Reserve  in 2005 and
2007 that sought to conceal its participation in the  tax-evasion 
scheme.  The bankers also used three Swiss private banks, a Swiss
cantonal bank and two asset management firms to help U.S.
taxpayers hide accounts from the IRS, according to the
indictment.  In 2008, U.S. prosecutors conducted a probe into whether
UBS AG,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, helped Americans evade
taxes. In February 2009, the U.S. criminally charged UBS with
aiding tax evasion by U.S. clients.  Data to IRS  UBS avoided prosecution by paying $780 million, admitting
it fostered tax evasion, and giving the IRS data on more than
250 accounts to avoid criminal prosecution. It later turned over
data on another 4,450 accounts. In October, the U.S. dropped its
criminal case against UBS.  The U.S. filed a civil action in April against London-based
HSBC Holdings Plc, the largest European bank by assets, seeking
information about U.S. citizens who may have banked in  India  to
hide accounts from the IRS.  In the past two years, prosecutors have filed criminal tax
charges against more than two dozen UBS clients, four UBS
bankers, four other alleged offshore enablers and several other
clients of Credit Suisse and HSBC.  The case is U.S. v. Adami, 1:11-cr-00095, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 