-- 
Oil Rises to One-Month High on Manufacturing Index, Europe Debt Optimism

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-07-21T19:49:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/crude-oil-advances-after-iea-says-it-won-t-release-additional-inventories.html
Crude oil rose to a one-month high
in New York after manufacturing in the Philadelphia area
rebounded and on reports European Union officials have come up
with a plan for the region’s debt crisis, bolstering the euro.  Futures advanced 0.7 percent as the Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia’s general economic index rose to 3.2 from minus
7.7. Euro-area leaders may accept a temporary Greek default and
ease the terms on bailouts to cash-strapped nations. Prices also
rose after the  International Energy Agency  said it won’t extend
a release of oil supplies.  “The Philly Fed numbers fed into underlying hopefulness
about the economy,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again
Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy.
“It looks like  Europe  has come to an agreement about  Greece ,
and with that prospects for the region’s economy and fuel demand
will improve.”  Crude for September delivery rose 73 cents to $99.13 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since June 14. Futures have increased 29 percent in
the past year.  Brent crude oil for September settlement declined 64 cents,
or 0.5 percent, to end the session at $117.51 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The index of manufacturing in the area covering eastern
Pennsylvania, southern  New Jersey  and Delaware was expected to
climb to 2, according to the median of 57 economist forecasts in
a Bloomberg News survey. Positive readings in the index signal
growth.  Leading Economic Indicators  The Conference Board’s index of U.S. leading economic
indicators climbed 0.3 percent in June after a 0.8 percent gain
in May, the New York-based research group said today. Economists
projected a 0.2 percent rise in June, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 1.5 percent to
1,345.74, and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  increased 1.3
percent to 12,731.68.  The euro strengthened as European leaders arrived in
Brussels seeking solutions for the sovereign debt crisis. Heads
of government may cut the  interest rates  on loans to Greece,
Portugal and Ireland to 3.5 percent and double the repayment
period to at least 15 years. Europe’s main rescue fund may get
the power to buy bonds from investors, help countries
recapitalize banks and offer precautionary lines of credit.  The euro increased 1.3 percent to $1.4396, and touched
$1.4417, the highest level since July 6.  “The weak dollar is giving oil the push to run back above
$100,” said Stephen Schork, president of the Villanova,
Pennsylvania-based Schork Group Inc.  Washington Discussions  Discussions about a broad U.S. budget agreement intensified
after a bipartisan group of senators proposed a $3.7 trillion
deficit-reduction plan and President Barack Obama embraced it.
The Senate’s third-ranking Republican leader,  Lamar Alexander  of
 Tennessee , endorsed the approach. House Republican leaders, who
have denounced proposals for tax increases, didn’t rule out the
framework from the so-called Gang of Six senators.  “There’s increasing optimism that there will be agreement
to a debt deal, which is good for the economic outlook,” said
 Peter Beutel , president of Cameron Hanover Inc., a trading
advisory company in New Canaan,  Connecticut .  The IEA said on June 23 it would offer 60 million barrels
of oil to make up for exports choked off by armed conflict in
Libya. The action was the third time the agency has coordinated
the use of emergency stockpiles since it was founded in 1974.
The first was during the 1991 Persian Gulf War and the second in
2005 when Hurricane Katrina struck the  Gulf of Mexico .  “There’s growing tightness in the market and no resolution
to the conflict in  Libya  is in sight,” Kilduff said.  Libyan Output  The Libyan revolt, which began in February, has reduced the
availability of light, sweet crude, or oil with low density and
sulfur content. The country’s output fell 50,000 barrels, or 25
percent, to 150,000 barrels a day last month, a Bloomberg News
survey showed, the lowest amount in yearly data since 1962. It
pumped 1.59 million barrels in January, before the uprising.  “The IEA barrels are needed right now,” said Phil Flynn,
vice president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “The recent
inventory declines show that there’s obviously demand for
higher-quality crude grades.”  U.S. crude-oil stockpiles fell 3.73 million barrels to
351.7 million last week, the Energy Department said in a report
yesterday. It was the seventh-straight drop, the longest stretch
of inventory declines in two years.  Nigerian Shipments  Nigeria , the largest oil producer in  Africa , is scheduled
to export 2 million barrels a day of 14 major crude grades in
September, the lowest in six months, according to loading plans
obtained by Bloomberg News. Daily shipments for September will
be 4.2 percent less than August.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 486,125
contracts as of 3:05 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 516,130
contracts yesterday, 23 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.48 million contracts, the
lowest level since January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  