-- 
Curse the Geniuses Who Gave Us Bank of America: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-07-21T19:32:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/curse-the-geniuses-who-built-bank-of-america-jonathan-weil-1-.html
Ask anyone what the most immediate
threats to the global financial system are, and the obvious
answers would be the European sovereign-debt crisis and the off
chance that the U.S. won’t raise its debt ceiling in time to
avoid a default. Here’s one to add to the list: the frightening
plunge in  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s stock price.  At $9.85 a share, down 26 percent this year, Bank of
America finished yesterday with a market capitalization of $99.8
billion. That’s an astonishingly low 49 percent of the company’s
$205.6 billion book value, or common shareholder equity, as of
June 30. As far as the market is concerned, more than half of
the company’s book value is bogus, due to overstated assets,
understated liabilities, or some combination of the two.  That perception presents a dangerous situation for the
world at large, not just the company’s direct stakeholders. The
risk is that with the stock price this low, a further decline
could feed on itself and spread contagion to other companies,
regardless of the bank’s statement this week that it is
“creating a fortress balance sheet.”  It isn’t only the company’s intangible assets, such as
goodwill, that investors are discounting. (Goodwill is the
ledger entry a company records when it pays a premium to buy
another.) Consider Bank of America’s  calculations  of tangible
common equity, a bare-bones capital measure showing its ability
to absorb future losses. The company said it ended the second
quarter with tangible common equity of $128.2 billion, or 5.87
percent of tangible assets.  Investor Doubts  That’s about $28 billion more than the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based company’s market cap. Put another way, investors
doubt Bank of America’s loan values and other numbers, too, not
just its intangibles, the vast majority of which the company
doesn’t count toward regulatory capital or tangible common
equity anyway.  So here we have the largest  U.S. bank  by assets, fresh off
an $8.8 billion  quarterly loss , which was its biggest ever. And
the people in charge of running it have a monstrous credibility
gap, largely of their own making. Once again, we’re all on the
hook.  As recently as late 2010, Bank of America still clung to
the position that none of the $4.4 billion of goodwill from its
2008 purchase of Countrywide Financial Corp. had lost a dollar
of value. Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan also was
telling investors the bank would boost its penny-a-share
quarterly dividend “as fast as we can” and that he didn’t
“see anything that would stop us.” Both notions proved to be
nonsense.  Acquisition Disaster  The goodwill from Countrywide, one of the most disastrous
corporate acquisitions in U.S. history, now has been written off
entirely, via impairment  charges  that were long overdue. And,
thankfully, Bank of America’s regulators in March rejected the
company’s dividend plans, in an outburst of common sense.  Last fall, Bank of America also was telling investors it
probably would incur $4.4 billion of costs from repurchasing
defective mortgages that were sold to investors, though it did
say more were possible. Since then the company has recognized an
additional $19.2 billion of such expenses, with  no end  in sight.  The crucial question today is whether Bank of America needs
fresh capital to strengthen its balance sheet. Moynihan
emphatically says it doesn’t, pointing to regulatory-capital
measures that would have us believe it’s doing fine. The market
is screaming otherwise, judging by the mammoth discount to book
value. Then again, for all we know, the equity markets might not
be receptive to a massive offering of new shares anyway, even if
the bank’s executives were inclined to try for one.  No Worries  We can only hope Bank of America’s regulators are tracking
the market’s fears closely, and have contingency plans in place
should matters get worse. Yet to believe Moynihan, there’s nary
a worry from them. When asked by one analyst during the
company’s earnings conference call this week whether there was
any “pressure to raise capital from a regulatory side of
things,” Moynihan replied, simply, “no.”  If that’s true, the banking regulators should share blame
with Moynihan for the current mess. It would be impossible for
any lender to have too much capital in the event that  Europe ’s
debt problems, for example, morph into another global banking
crisis. It’s also hard to believe Bank of America has enough
capital now, given that the market doesn’t believe it.  There undoubtedly are plenty of brave investors eyeing Bank
of America’s stock price who trust the numbers on the company’s
books and see a buying opportunity. Perhaps they’ll even be
proven right. We should hope so, for our own sakes. There’s more
at stake here, however, than whether Bank of America’s shares
are a “buy” or a “sell.”  The main thing the rest of us care about is the continuing
menace this company and others like it pose to the financial
system, knowing we never should have let ourselves be put in the
position where a collapse in confidence at a single bank could
wreak havoc on the world’s economy. Here we are again, though.
Curse the geniuses who brought us this madness.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 