-- 
Daimler Spends $2 Billion on Mercedes-Benz Site in Alabama as Demand Rises

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-07-21T12:09:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/daimler-spends-2-billion-on-mercedes-benz-site-in-alabama-as-demand-rises.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-
largest maker of luxury cars, said it will spend more than $2
billion to boost capacity at Mercedes-Benz’s U.S. plant.  Production is already close to capacity at the factory in
Tuscaloosa, Alabama, which makes M-, R- and GL-Class SUVs and is
due to add Mercedes’ best-selling C-Class sedan from 2014.  “German luxury-car makers are blessed with unbelievable
demand, especially for SUVs,” said  Frank Schwope , a NordLB
analyst in Hanover, Germany, who recommends buying Daimler
stock. “Facilities often fail to meet output requirements.”  Booming demand for German cars in China and the U.S., the
world’s two biggest auto markets, shows no signs of abating.
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the luxury leader, sold 61 percent
more vehicles in  China  in the first half even as growth overall
car sales growth in the country slowed to 5.8 percent.  BMW has said it may add production capacity in Brazil while
it expands in China and India to keep pace with demand. Porsche
AG plans to boost output of the Cayenne SUV, its best-selling
vehicle, at its Leipzig, Germany-based factory by as much as 20
percent to trim waiting times.  Six-month sales at Mercedes rose 9.7 percent to a record
611,000 as the unit, vying with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi to close
the gap on BMW, seeks to outpace growth in global markets it
reckons may reach 7 percent this year. The Tuscaloosa plant
produced more than 125,000 autos last year.  Unprecedented Investment  The  Alabama  site, founded in 1995 and Mercedes’ first
production facility outside its German home market, will be
upgraded and expanded after 14 years of M-Class output which
“clearly surpassed” all expectations, Markus Schaefer, the
factory chief, said in a statement.  The investment announced today is unprecedented for the
site, Daimler spokesman Sebastian Wahle said by phone.  Stuttgart, Germany-based Mercedes-Benz is also building a
factory in Hungary to produce a new version of the B-Class
compact, the first of four small cars being introduced to help
lower average emissions and attract younger drivers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  