-- 
Deficits Need Balanced-Budget Amendment Fix: Dick Thornburgh

-- B y   D i c k   T h o r n b u r g h
-- 
2011-07-21T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/deficits-need-balanced-budget-amendment-fix-dick-thornburgh.html
A late entrant in the budget
deficit-debt ceiling talkathon in  Washington  is increasing
support for a constitutional requirement that the federal budget
be balanced every year. Liberals will no doubt characterize this
proposal as a nutty one, but careful scrutiny of such an
amendment to our constitution demonstrates its potential to
prevent future train wrecks in the budgeting process.  Constitutional budget-balancing requirements are already
available to most governors and state legislatures, along with a
line-item veto and separate capital budgeting, which
differentiates investments from current outlays. They work.  Any debate in Congress will probably include the following
arguments against a balanced-budget amendment:  First, that the amendment would clutter our basic document
in a way contrary to the intention of the Founding Fathers. This
is clearly wrong. The framers of the Constitution contemplated
that amendments would be necessary to keep it abreast of the
times. It has, in fact, been amended 27 times.  Moreover, at the time of the Constitutional Convention,
one of the major preoccupations was how to liquidate the post-
Revolutionary War debts of the states. It would have been
unthinkable to the framers that the federal government would
systematically run a deficit, decade after decade. The Treasury
didn’t begin to follow such a practice until the mid-1930s.  No Overnight Fix  Second, critics will argue that the adoption of a balanced-
budget amendment wouldn’t solve the deficit problem overnight.
This is absolutely correct, but begs the issue. Serious
supporters of the amendment recognize that a phasing-in of five
to 10 years would be required.  During this interim period, however, budget makers would
have to meet declining deficit targets in order to reach a final
balanced budget by the established deadline.  As pointed out by former Commerce Secretary  Peter G. Peterson , such “steady progress toward eliminating the deficit
will maintain investor confidence, keep long-term  interest rates 
headed down and keep our economy growing.”  Third, it will be argued that such an amendment would
require vast cuts in social services, entitlements and defense
spending. Not necessarily. True, these programs would have to be
paid for on a current basis rather than heaped on the backs of
future generations. Difficult choices would have to be made
about priorities and program funding. But the very purpose of
the amendment is to discipline the executive and legislative
branches, not to propose or perpetuate vast spending programs
without providing the revenue to fund them.  Fully Accountable  The amendment would, in effect, make the president and
Congress fully accountable for their spending and taxing
decisions.  Fourth, critics will say that a balanced-budget amendment
would prevent or hinder our capacity to respond to national
defense or economic emergencies. This concern is easy to
counter. Clearly, any sensible amendment proposal would feature
a safety valve to exempt deficits incurred in response to
emergencies, requiring, for example, a three-fifths majority in
both houses of Congress. Such action should, of course, be based
on a finding that such an emergency actually exists.  Fifth, it will be said that a balanced-budget amendment
might be easily circumvented. The experience of the states
suggests otherwise. Balanced-budget requirements are now in
effect in all but one ( Vermont ) of the 50 states and have served
them well.  Moreover, the line-item veto, available to 43 governors,
would ensure that congressional overruns -- or loophole end runs
-- could be rejected by the president. The public’s opposition,
the elective process and the courts would also restrain any
tendency to ignore a constitutional directive.  Making Excuses  In the final analysis, most of the excuses for not enacting
a constitutional mandate to balance the budget rest on a stated
or implied preference for solving our deficit dilemma through
the political process -- that is to say, through responsible
action by the president and Congress.  But that has been tried and found wanting, again and again.  Surely the U.S. is ready for a simple, clear and supreme
directive that compels elected officials to fulfill their fiscal
responsibilities. A constitutional amendment is the only
instrument that will meet this need. Years of experience at the
state level argue in favor of such a step. Years of debate have
produced no persuasive arguments against it.  The stakes are high. Perhaps  Thomas Jefferson  put it best:
“To preserve our independence, we must not let our rulers load
us down with perpetual debt.”  That is the aim of a balanced-budget amendment. Reform-
minded members of Congress should support such an amendment to
our Constitution as a means of resolving future legislative
crises and ending credit-card government once and for all.  A nutty idea? Not by a long shot.  (Dick Thornburgh, former U.S. Attorney General and two-term
governor of  Pennsylvania , is counsel to the international law
firm of K&L Gates LLP. The opinions expressed are his own.)  More Bloomberg View op-ed.  To contact the writer of this column:
Dick Thornburgh at  dick.thornburgh@klgates.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 