-- 
Delta Wins More LaGuardia Flights in U.S. Slot-Swap Review

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-07-21T21:33:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/delta-us-air-can-swap-airport-slots-with-divestitures-dot-says.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC)  can trade takeoff and landing slots at  New York ’s
LaGuardia and  Washington ’s Reagan National airports if they
divest two dozen slot pairs, U.S. regulators said.  Smaller carriers should get eight pairs of slots at Reagan
National and 16 pairs at LaGuardia, the U.S. Transportation
Department said today in an e-mailed statement. That’s 10 fewer
pairs than the U.S. required under a 2009 plan the airlines
abandoned because the conditions were too onerous.  Final approval would give Delta 132 more LaGuardia slot
pairs and control of about half the flights there, in exchange
for trading 42 Reagan National pairs to US Airways. Delta’s
advantage at LaGuardia would grow over  American Airlines , the
second-biggest carrier there.  “This will certainly make American’s New York cornerstone
strategy more challenged,” said Jeff Straebler, an aviation
debt strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut.  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American has 17 percent of LaGuardia
passengers, trailing Atlanta-based Delta’s 22 percent, according
to the U.S. Bureau of Transportation Statistics. Both also
compete at New York’s Kennedy airport for international
travelers.  American has focused on routing almost all of its flights
through hub cities including its hometown Dallas-Fort Worth
International Airport, because those are markets valued by
business travelers and are gateways for international routes.  ‘On the Ropes’  “This was the battle for New York,” said Robert W. Mann,
president of consultant R.W. Mann & Co. in Port Washington, New
York, and a former executive at Fort Worth, Texas-based
American. Delta will “really have American on the ropes with a
big presence at Kennedy and a big presence at LaGuardia.”  LaGuardia and National are so congested that they are under
flight restrictions, meaning carriers must trade slots in order
to grow. The number of divestitures regulators called for today
matches the number Delta and Tempe, Arizona-based  US Airways 
proposed giving up in their May application.  “Upon final approval, we intend to move forward with the
plan,” Delta and US Airways said in a joint statement.  US Airways said it expects the slot exchange will be
completed by the end of this year once the Transportation
Department grants final approval, Executive Vice President Steve
Johnson said today on a conference call.  Two Phases  The exchange will be implemented in two phases starting in
the first half of 2012, and will be completed in the second
half, Johnson said. US Airways has said it can’t make money at
LaGuardia and has focused instead on Washington.  Delta and US Airways’ initial application in 2009 drew
objections from competitors including  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) ,
which said the deal would make the two carriers too dominant in
those markets.  Southwest has since gained LaGuardia and Reagan flights
from its May purchase of AirTran Holdings Inc., and it added
slots at  New Jersey ’s Newark airport that United Airlines and
Continental Airlines divested as part of their October merger.  Delta rose 3 cents to $8.17 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. US Airways was unchanged at $6.90.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 