-- 
Desmond Sees Stocks at ‘Late Stage’ of Rally: Technical Analysis

-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 
2011-07-21T14:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/desmond-sees-stocks-at-late-stage-of-rally-technical-analysis.html
U.S. stocks are at the “late
stage” of a  bull market  and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index may
plunge at least 35 percent starting next year, according to Paul Desmond, president of Lowry Research Corp.  A bull market on average lasts about 37 months, meaning the
current 28-month advance may continue into next year, said
Desmond, who was named 2009’s best chart analyst by Technical
Analyst magazine. While the S&P 500 now shows no signs of
“major tops,” a slowdown in trading and weaker price charts in
markets from Europe to  Asia  suggest U.S. stocks may follow the
rest of the world into a third  bear market  in a decade, he said.  “We’ve seen classic signs of major market tops -- they’re
not present now,” Desmond said in a telephone interview from
 Palm Beach ,  Florida . “That makes us feel that the current bull
market has further to run,” he said. “The question is: If all
the world’s markets are showing substantial weakness, what does
that foretell for the New York Stock Exchange? It’s like when
everybody else catches a cold around you, how likely you can
survive without catching a cold.”  The S&P 500 surged 102 percent from a 12-month low in March
2009 through the end of April of this year after the  Federal
Reserve  introduced measures to stimulate the economy and
corporate earnings exceeded analysts’ estimates. The rally has
since stalled amid concern the European sovereign-debt crisis
would spread and lower-than-forecast U.S. economic data.  Lowry Predictions  Lowry, founded in 1938, recommended investors avoid stocks
three months before the  S&P 500 ’s peak in 2007. The firm
expressed doubt in June 2009 about the sustainability of the
rally and didn’t advise clients to enter the market until August
that year. The S&P 500 climbed 46 percent from its bear-market
low in March 2009 through the end of July that year.  More stocks are participating in the advance, a sign that
the rally is not over yet, Desmond said. The cumulative advance-
decline line for S&P 500 stocks, which represents the number of
daily gains minus the number of declines, reached 19,325 on July
7, the highest level since Bloomberg started tracking the data
in September 2002. The A/D line tends to deteriorate four to six
months before the market makes a major top, Desmond found.  While the number of stocks reaching new highs has
contracted, it has yet to reach a level that would suggest the
market is peaking, Desmond said. During major tops since 1929,
no more than 10 percent of stocks reached highs when the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  peaked, according to Lowry’s data.
Currently, the proportion of stocks making highs is “in a range
of 30 percent,” he said.  ‘Relatively Healthy’  “It’s a relatively healthy market,” Desmond said. The
shrinking number of stocks making new highs “does show the bull
market is getting old and mature, and starting to show some
signs of weakness. But they’re not dramatic enough to worry
about it.”  Desmond said weakness outside the U.S. is a sign that the
rally in American equities may falter later. Based on Lowry’s
analysis of price and volume statistics, he said, “in virtually
all the international markets, there is a dramatic loss of
demand for stocks and in some case we see a substantial pickup
in the desire to sell the stocks.”  In  Europe , the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined
8.1 percent from its February high through yesterday as
sovereign debt concerns spread from  Greece  to Italy and Ireland.
Since peaking in November,  Brazil ’s Bovespa Index slumped 19
percent through yesterday.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index and the
Shanghai Composite Index have both dropped 12 percent from their
November peaks amid concern the Chinese government’s efforts to
curb inflation will slow economic growth in the biggest
developing country.  “It’s difficult for one market to keep going up while the
markets around it are going down,” Desmond said. “We got a lot
negatives in the news. If investors’ psychology changes from the
current positive frame of mind to a negative frame of mind,
there could be a substantial decline.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lu Wang  in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 