-- 
Dodd-Frank Swipe-Fee Cap Already Ending Debit Card Rewards: One Year Later

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-07-21T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/dodd-frank-swipe-fee-cap-already-ending-debit-card-rewards-one-year-later.html
Less than a month after the  Federal
Reserve  approved Dodd-Frank Act rules capping debit-card swipe
fees, the limits on so-called interchange are looking like a
compromise that displeases almost everyone.  Big banks such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are looking for ways
to make up for $8 billion in lost revenue, payment networks
including  Visa Inc. (V)  are forecasting slower growth and smaller
retailers are questioning whether the change will boost their
bottom lines. Meanwhile, there is little specific discussion
among big retailers of any benefits for consumers.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted a year ago
today, required the Fed to ensure fees charged for debit-card
purchases were “reasonable and proportional” to the cost of
processing transactions. The 21-cent cap approved by the central
bank on June 29 reflected a pullback from a 12-cent limit it
proposed in December, which roiled shares of Visa and  MasterCard
Inc. (MA)  and prompted banks to seek to delay or overturn the rules.  Banks basically lost half of their interchange revenue from
this proposal “and they are going to look to recoup that,”
said Jaret Seiberg, a financial services policy analyst with  MF
Global Holdings Ltd. (MF) ’s Washington Research Group. “It’s not
going to be the doomsday scenario, but it’s still going to be
more expensive for the average consumer.”  The largest debit-card issuers, which stand to lose
billions of dollars in annual revenue under the Fed caps, have
already begun to eliminate rewards programs and free checking
and new fees may be next in the effort to help make up the
difference, according to analysts and executives.  Losing Rewards  Earlier this year, JPMorgan sent letters informing
customers that that they would be losing many of their debit-
card rewards programs this month as a result of the new rules.
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit warned that
increased fees and reduced rewards programs could make the
banking system less attractive -- and viable -- for lower-income
Americans.  After the Fed released its final rule, USAA Federal Savings
Bank, a thrift catering to the members of the U.S. military and
their families, said it would end its debit-card rewards program
on Sept. 1. The lender based its decision on a survey of members
about which services they could do without, USAA President David
Bohne said in a statement.  “USAA’s survey found that members favored free checking
and ATM fee refunds over debit card rewards,” Bohne said.
“Based on this feedback, we decided to stop the debit card
rewards to maintain the other benefits.”  Revenue Growth  “Most, if not all, of the lost revenue will be made up
gradually, probably over a period of several years, through a
variety of revenue enhancement measures,”  Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  said
this month in a report on the rules’ effect on banks.  A week after the Fed’s decision, San Francisco-based Visa
filed updated expectations with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and held a conference call for analysts to lay out
the impact of the new rules on its business model.  Revenue growth for the 2012 fiscal year will be in the
“high single-digit to low double-digits range,” the company
said July 6 in a filing. That’s down from a projection of 11
percent to 15 percent for the 2011 fiscal year.  While financial firms face the loss of half their debit-fee
revenue, the question of who wins remains a toss-up, according
to retailers. The debit-card market is massive -- more than 38
billion transactions took place in 2009 -- and its participants
include grocery and electronics stores, gas stations and large
retailers like  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Target Corp. (TGT) , all of
whom lobbied for limits on the power of banks and payment
networks to impose fees.  7-Eleven  Franchise owners at 7-Eleven Inc. such as Dennis Lane, who
became a public face of the issue as national spokesman for the
 Retail Industry Leaders Association , are trying to calculate
whether they will receive any benefit at all.  “I honestly think we’re going to be close to where we were
before Dodd-Frank,” Lane, who owns a 7-Eleven in Quincy,
 Massachusetts , said of the Fed’s decision to cap fees at 21
cents per transaction. “That’s atrocious.”  The biggest retailers, including Wal-Mart, Target and Home
Depot Inc. could lower prices for consumers, make investments in
technology and workforce and provide more payment options for
customers.  “Any significant decrease in rates would have a meaningful
impact,” Atlanta-based Home Depot said in a February comment
letter to the Fed.  In an industry with thin margins, savings are likely to be
plugged into infrastructure, workforce and services, Seiberg
said. Merchant acquirers, firms that serve as third parties in
transactions between retailers and their banks, also are likely
to take a piece of the savings, he said.  $830 Million  Retail groups are continuing to struggle with the scope of
the benefits for their businesses.  While the rules will give U.S. convenience stores an
estimated $830 million to put back into the economy, the message
from store owners was that the Fed could have and should have
done more, said Jeff Lenard of the National Association for
Convenience Stores, the Alexandria, Virginia-based  trade group .  Senator  Richard Durbin , the Illinois Democrat who sponsored
the amendment in Dodd-Frank, was able to secure the necessary
votes in the Senate largely because of an exemption from the
rules for banks and  credit unions  with less than $10 billion in
assets. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and then-Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair  cast doubt over whether the
exemption would be effective, spurring calls to delay the rules.  While Senate efforts to force a review of the exemption
fell short, smaller firms remain concerned that the carve-out
won’t work, according to Karen Thomas, executive vice president
of government relations for the  Independent Community Bankers of
America .  ‘All Eyes’  “It’s been our contention all along that the exemption
will not be workable in the marketplace,” Thomas said this week
during a conference call with reporters. “All eyes are going to
be on the networks to see how they implement these rules.”  For Lane, who attended President  Barack Obama ’s Dodd-Frank
signing ceremony in  Washington  a year ago today, the fight over
the rules is likely to continue in the months ahead. For the
moment, though, his focus is on what happens for his 7-Eleven.  “The first 20-odd cents of every transaction will go to
the financial services industry and that’s not such a problem if
you’re selling computers or wide-screen TVs or digital
cameras,” Lane said. “It’s a huge problem when you’re selling
newspaper and coffee and donuts and candy bars.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  