-- 
Don’t Be ‘Impatient’ With Argentine Soccer Star Messi, Adidas Chief Says

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 
2011-07-21T19:00:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/don-t-be-impatient-with-argentine-soccer-star-messi-adidas-chief-says.html
Argentine soccer fans shouldn’t be
“impatient” with FC Barcelona striker  Lionel Messi , chosen the
world’s best player in 2009 and 2010, the chief executive
officer of  Adidas AG (ADS)  said.  “Don’t be impatient with him,” Herbert Hainer, head of
the Herzogenaurach, Germany-based company, said in Buenos Aires
today, less than a week after Argentina was eliminated from the
Copa America regional soccer tournament. “He’s still a young
player.”  Adidas, the world’s second-largest sporting-goods maker,
sponsors both Messi, 24, and the Argentine national team. This
week, the company extended its sponsorship contract with the
Argentine Football Association until 2022.  Messi, who left Argentina for Barcelona when he was 13, has
failed to win a title with his native country since joining the
national team in 2005. During his time at Barcelona, the club
has has won 14 titles, including five La Liga Spanish league
titles and three UEFA Champions League cups. Messi received the
world’s best player award from FIFA, soccer’s governing body, in
2009 and 2010.  “I’m absolutely convinced he’s the best football player,”
Adidas’s Hainer said. “Unfortunately he was unable to show all
his talent in  Argentina .”  Failed to Score  Argentina was knocked out of the Copa America, which it is
hosting, last week after a penalty shoot-out against Uruguay.
Messi failed to score in Argentina’s four matches, as he did in
the  World Cup  in  South Africa  last year.  Argentine fans booed and hurled abuse at the team during
its second game, on July 6 against Colombia, which ended in a 0-
0 tie.  “Nobody likes to be insulted,” Messi said in a post-match
press conference.  Speaking in an interview with Radio 10 two days later,
Messi’s father, Jorge, said the insults “were very tough” on
his son.  Uruguay will face Paraguay in the Copa America final on
July 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  