-- 
Dow Jones Panel Sees No Misconduct at News Corp. U.S. Unit

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-07-21T16:24:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/dow-jones-panel-sees-no-misconduct-at-news-corp-u-s-unit.html
The committee that oversees
editorial independence at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Dow Jones & Co. unit said
it has found “absolutely no sign of journalistic misconduct”
among Dow Jones employees.  The committee responded to a letter yesterday from U.S.
Senators  Barbara Boxer  and  Jay Rockefeller , who asked the panel
whether senior News Corp. executives in the U.S. knew about or
were complicit in the phone hacking scandal now engulfing the
company in the U.K.  “Our focus from the outset has been on insuring that the
highest standards of journalistic ethics are being met at the
Wall Street Journal and Dow Jones Newswires,” the committee
said in a statement e-mailed late yesterday by its chairman,
Thomas Bray, the former editorial page editor of the  Detroit
News .  “In conversations with countless present and former Dow
Jones employees we have found absolutely no sign of journalistic
misconduct such as is at the heart of the scandal in  London ,”
the statement said.  Boxer, a California Democrat, and Rockefeller, a West
Virginia Democrat who chairs the Senate Commerce Committee, also
requested information from the committee about the hiring of  Les Hinton , who resigned as chief executive officer of Dow Jones on
July 15.  Hinton was chairman of News Corp.’s U.K. newspaper unit
News International for 12 years until 2007, giving him a leading
role at the division during the time when the alleged hacking
took place. Hinton started as chief executive officer of Dow
Jones in December 2007 and was given the additional title of
publisher of the Wall Street Journal in May 2008, according to
Dow Jones spokeswoman Ashley Huston.  Lawmakers’ Letter  “The American people need to be reassured that this kind
of misconduct has not occurred in the  United States  and that
senior executives at News Corporation properties in our country
were not aware of or complicit in any wrongdoing,” Boxer and
Rockefeller wrote in their  letter .  The Dow Jones special committee did not investigate
“Hinton’s activities in London, which were investigated there
in the past and are the subject of renewed focus now,” the
committee said in its statement. The panel said it is aware of
the letter from the senators and “will reply to them in due
course.”  The committee said in a July 15 statement that it didn’t
see any relationship between Hinton’s resignation and his tenure
at Dow Jones or the Wall Street Journal. The committee was
formed in 2007 to monitor journalistic integrity and
independence at the newspaper after News Corp.’s $5.2 billion
purchase of Dow Jones.  Huston, the Dow Jones spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the special committee’s statement. News Corp. spokeswoman Teri Everett did not respond to a request for comment.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  is probing whether
employees of New York-based News Corp. sought unauthorized
access to voice-mail accounts of victims of the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attack on the World Trade Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  