-- 
Dragon Oil Expects ‘Weak Market’ for Turkmen Gas, Chief Says

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-07-21T12:25:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/dragon-oil-expects-weak-market-for-turkmen-gas-chief-says.html
Dragon Oil Plc (DGO) , the U.K. explorer
active in Turkmenistan, said it expects a “weak market” for
natural gas supplies from the  Caspian Sea  in the near future.  The company is in talks with the Turkmen government over
gas deliveries with a view to sending exports to Russia and
 Europe , Chief Executive Officer Abdul Jaleel Al Khalifa said
today in an interview.  “Now with not so high global gas demand, we don’t
anticipate that we are going to receive a good monetization
scheme for our gas” in the next one or two years, Al Khalifa
said. “It’s a weak market for our gas now.”  OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly, slashed
purchases of the fuel from  Turkmenistan  by about 75 percent on
lower demand. Land-locked Turkmenistan has started gas
deliveries to  China , increased supplies to Iran and has been
negotiating a plan to export fuel to Europe bypassing Russia.  Dragon Oil is “pursuing a dual strategy” in gas marketing
in anticipation that fuel demand and prices will increase in the
longer term, according to a statement released earlier today.  The company plans to invest about $700 million in
infrastructure projects through 2013, with output expected to
rise by as much as 15 percent a year.  Dragon Oil is also in talks with Iran to resume crude oil
swaps to diversify export routes from the Caspian Sea.  Iran  is
under international sanctions over its efforts to develop a
nuclear program that the U.S. and its allies accuse of being
aimed at developing atomic weapons, an allegation Iran rejects.  “There is potential resumption of exports through Iran
sometime in the future,” Al Khalifa said. UN “sanctions are
difficulties, but that doesn’t make it impossible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  