-- 
Dynegy Sued by Public Service, LibertyView Funds Over Restructuring Plan

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-22T16:17:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/dynegy-sued-by-libertyview-funds-over-restructuring-loans-1-.html
Dynegy Inc. (DYN) , the power producer that
warned earlier this year it may seek  bankruptcy protection , was
sued by units of  Public Service Enterprise Group Inc. (PEG)  and
LibertyView Credit Opportunities Fund LP over its plan to obtain
$1.7 billion in restructuring loans.  Five LibertyView funds hold pass-through trust certificates
issued in 2001 to finance a sale-leaseback transaction involving
two power-generation facilities in Newburgh, New York, according
to the LibertyView complaint.  Dynegy’s unit Dynegy Holdings Inc., which operates power
plants, provided an “unconditional guarantee” of the
obligations of its units in the transactions, including lease
payments, LibertyView said. The funds bought about $30 million
of the certificates from November 2009 to July 2011.  Dynegy’s restructuring is an attempt to protect the value
of its units that generate revenue from the “burdens of
guaranteeing the repayment of financing provided by the
certificates,” LibertyView said in the complaint, filed
yesterday in New York state  Supreme Court  in  Manhattan .  “The value of the funds’ certificates already has been
damaged as a direct result of DHI’s proposed gutting of the
guaranty, as evidenced by the market’s reaction to the
announcement of the planned restructuring,” according to the
complaint.  PSEG Complaint  PSEG’s indirect subsidiaries, Roseton OL LLC and Danskammer
OL LLC, filed a complaint in Delaware Chancery Court alleging
they had about $270 million in investments at risk as of March
31, PSEG said today in a statement. The units are owner-lessors
of two electric-generating facilities.  Dynegy, the third-largest independent U.S. power producer,
said July 10 that it is seeking to refinance debt and change its
corporate structure to avoid defaulting on its existing loan
facility.  The Houston-based company said it will restructure its
operations, with one unit owning a portfolio of eight primarily
natural gas-fired power generation facilities and another owning
a group of six coal-fired baseload facilities.  The proposed transactions are a “precursor” to Dynegy
Holdings’ subsidiaries intended default on their obligations
under long-term leases with the PSEG units, according to the
Delaware complaint.  Lease Payments  PSEG purchased the Roseton and Danskammer generating
stations in May 2001 for $920 million and immediately leased
those facilities back under long-term leases to Dynegy entities,
according to the complaint. About $790 million in lease payments
remain outstanding, lawyers for the PSEG units said in the
complaint.  The Roseton and Danskammer generating stations lessee
interests would be transferred to an ordinary subsidiary under
Dynegy Holdings, PSEG said in its statement and in the
complaint.  The proposed transfer “is a violation of the DHI
guaranty,” PSEG said in the statement. The units are seeking a
court order barring Dynegy from implementing the transfers,
according to the statement.  Norelle Lundy, a Dynegy spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the specific complaints.  “We do not believe the claims have merit and we do not
anticipate any delay in the refinancing,” Lundy said today in a
phone interview.  The  New York  case is LibertyView Credit Opportunities Fund
LP vs. Dynegy Holdings Inc., 651998/2011, New York state Supreme
Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  