-- 
Leading Economic Indicators in U.S. Probably Rose at a Slower Pace in June

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-21T12:55:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/leading-economic-indicators-in-u-s-probably-rose-at-slower-pace-in-june.html
The index of U.S. leading indicators
probably rose at a slower pace in June, signaling the recovery
will be restrained in the second half of the year, economists
forecast a report will show today.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months climbed 0.2 percent after a 0.8 percent gain
in May, according to the median estimate of 51 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Cheaper fuel costs, an easing of supply bottlenecks after
the  Japan  earthquake and better weather may combine to help give
the expansion a boost during the rest of the year. At the same
time, a reluctance to ramp up hiring and limited income growth
may limit consumer purchases, the biggest part of the economy.  “The stumbling block here is that you’ve got a labor
market that seems to be in funk,” said  Brian Jones , an
economist at  Societe Generale  in  New York . “We need to have
some employment growth to boost  consumer spending .”  The Conference Board’s report is due at 10 a.m. in New
York. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a drop of
0.1 percent to a gain of 0.6 percent.  Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region may have expanded
in July, a report may show at 10 a.m. The Federal Reserve Bank
of Philadelphia’s general economic index rose to 2 this month
from a minus 7.7 the prior month, according to the median
projection in the Bloomberg survey. Readings greater than zero
signal expansion in the area covering eastern  Pennsylvania ,
southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  Jobless Claims  More Americans than forecast filed claims for  unemployment
benefits  last week, reflecting the volatility of applications
during the annual auto-plant retooling period, a Labor
Department report showed today. Applications rose 10,000 to
418,000 in the week ended July 16. Economists forecast 410,000
claims, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Stock-index futures held earlier gains after the report on
better-than-estimated results AT&T Inc. and Morgan Stanley. The
contract on the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index maturing in
September climbed 0.6 percent to 1,329.7 at 8:34 a.m. in New
York.  Treasury securities  fell, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year up to 2.96 percent from 2.93 percent late
yesterday.  Seven of the 10 indicators that make up the leading index
are known ahead of time: stock prices, jobless claims, building
permits, consumer expectations, the yield curve, factory hours
and supplier delivery times. The Conference Board estimates new
orders for  consumer goods , bookings for capital goods and  money
supply  adjusted for inflation.  Building Permits  Among the known components, those pointing to growth in
June were increases in building permits, slower delivery times
that indicate stronger demand and a positive spread between
short- and long-term  interest rates . Declines in stock prices,
consumer expectations and factory hours may have weighed on the
measure.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this month that
“disappointing” job growth in May and June were due to
temporary effects that included higher energy costs and parts
shortages from Japan.  Bernanke on Economy  “Once the temporary shocks that have been holding down
economic activity pass, we expect to again see the effects of
policy accommodation reflected in stronger economic activity and
 job creation ,” Bernanke told the House Financial Services
Committee on July 13. He also said that “the economy could
evolve in a way that would warrant a move toward less-
accommodative policy.”  Employers added 18,000 workers to payrolls in June, the
fewest in nine months, and the  unemployment rate  rose to 9.2
percent.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
consumer expectations dropped to 64.8 in June from 69.5.
Weakening household confidence may pose a risk to consumer
spending, which accounts for 70 percent of economic activity.  Retailers are “cautious” about the  U.S. economy ,
according to David Hargreaves, chief operating officer of
Pawtucket, Rhode Island-based  Hasbro Inc. (HAS)   “In the U.S. we’re two years out of recession,
unemployment is increasing, under-employment is increasing,
 house prices  are still going down,” Hargreaves, chief operating
officer of Hasbro said on a July 18 conference call with
analysts. “Retailers will be appropriately cautious as they go
into the end of the year.”  Retail Sales  Sales at retailers stagnated in June, while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 index fell 1.8 percent from the prior month. After
reaching a high this year of 1,363.61 on April 29, stocks have
declined, partly a reflection of a slowing recovery.  The U.S. economy, the world’s largest, expanded at a 1.9
percent annual rate in the first quarter, the slowest in almost
a year. Gross domestic product rose 2 percent in the following
three months, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists from
June 28 to July 7.  It may average 3.2 percent in the second half of the year,
the median projection in the survey showed.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Jillian Berman in Washington at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  