-- 
EBRD May Be Interested in Acquiring Stakes in Romanian Companies

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-07-21T12:30:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/ebrd-may-be-interested-in-acquiring-stakes-in-romanian-companies.html
The  European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development  may consider buying stakes in Romanian state-
owned companies after the government provides details of its
sales program, according to Claudia Pendred, the EBRD’s local
director.  The EBRD probably will clarify plans for the possible
acquisition of equity stakes in Romanian companies, including in
utilities  Transelectrica SA (TEL)  and Transgaz SA, after Prime
Minister Emil Boc’s government decides on the size of the stakes
it wants to sell and on the sales methods, Pendred said.  “It’s not quite clear what’s going to be privatized, so we
have to wait and see,” Pendred said in an interview in
Bucharest. “Certainly, if it makes sense, we will do them, but
until the plans are cleared, it’s very difficult to comment.”
She added that the bank and government will continue to discuss
the program.  The  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union,
which gave Romania two bailouts since 2009, have urged the
government to sell minority or majority stakes in state-owned
companies and improve management to help cut the  budget deficit 
to 3 percent of gross domestic product by next year from 6.5
percent in 2010.  The Balkan country is trying to attract investors to help
spark economic growth after a two-year recession. The government
plans to sell minority stakes in the utilities, in  OMV Petrom
SA (SNP) , the largest  oil company , and in the nuclear power company
Nuclearelectrica SA and the hydropower generator Hidroelectrica
SA, as well as a majority stake in PVC-maker Oltchim SA.  “Now that the IMF’s second review mission is in town, they
will probably decide with the government what’s going to be
privatized, how it is going to be privatized, and we can clear
our plans afterwards,” Pendred said. “We wouldn’t start buying
shares unless there is a reason for it, we would have to feel
that we can add value.”  EBRD, which has invested 300 million euros ($425 million)
in  Romania  so far this year, also wants to finance more
renewable energy projects and acquire shares in private
companies, Pendred said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  