-- 
Advance in U.S. Leading Index Signals Recovery to Pick Up in Second Half

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-07-21T20:38:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/economic-indicators-climbed-0-3-in-u-s-.html
The index of U.S. leading indicators
rose in June, confirming the  Federal Reserve ’s forecast that the
economy will pick up in the second half of the year.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months climbed 0.3 percent after a 0.8 percent gain
in May, the New York-based research group said today. Jobless
claims rose more than forecast and  consumer confidence  stagnated
last week, while manufacturing in the Philadelphia area
rebounded this month, other reports showed.  Cheaper fuel costs, an easing of supply bottlenecks after
the Japan earthquake and better weather may combine to help give
the recovery a boost. At the same time, a reluctance to ramp up
hiring and limited income growth may restrain consumer
purchases, the biggest part of the economy.  The economy “is not falling apart but not showing any
great signs of reacceleration either,” said  Joshua Shapiro ,
chief U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in  New York .
“We’re in the doldrums. It is consistent with sluggish
growth.”  Economists projected a 0.2 percent rise in the June leading
index, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey. Estimates of the 51 economists ranged from a drop of 0.1
percent to an increase of 0.6 percent.  Stocks rallied as European officials announced a plan that
will give additional aid to  Greece  and as Morgan Stanley’s
results beat estimates. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed
1.4 percent to 1,343.8 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  Manufacturing in the Philadelphia area rebounded in July
from its first contraction this year, a sign the industry is
recovering from earlier supply shortages caused by  Japan ’s
earthquake in March, another report today showed.  Philadelphia Manufacturing  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index rose to 3.2 from minus 7.7 the prior month. Readings
greater than zero signal expansion in the area covering eastern
Pennsylvania, southern  New Jersey  and Delaware.  The labor market is struggling to gain momentum. Initial
jobless claims increased by 10,000 to 418,000 last week, the
Labor Department said today.  “The labor market is still quite fragile,” said  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S. economist at RBC Capital Markets Corp. in
New York, who correctly forecast the rise in claims. “The pace
of firings continues to move sideways and it’s obvious there is
not a lot of hiring going on. There is not a lot of demand right
now.”  The lack of hiring helps explain why consumers have little
to cheer about. Consumer sentiment was little changed last week
as Americans’ optimism over their current finances clashed with
growing pessimism about the state of the economy. The Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index was minus 43.3 in the period to July 17,
the highest since April, compared with minus 43.9 the prior
week.  Five Gain  Five of the 10 components of the Conference Board’s leading
index contributed to the June gain. The biggest contribution
came from an increase in the  money supply  followed by a positive
spread between short- and long-term  interest rates  and a gain in
building permits.  Declines in stock prices, consumer expectations, orders for
capital equipment and factory hours weighed on the measure.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this month that
“disappointing” job growth in May and June were due to
temporary effects that included higher energy costs and parts
shortages from Japan.  “Once the temporary shocks that have been holding down
economic activity pass, we expect to again see the effects of
policy accommodation reflected in stronger economic activity and
 job creation ,” Bernanke told the House Financial Services
Committee on July 13.  Retailers ‘Cautious’  Retailers are “cautious” about the  U.S. economy ,
according to David Hargreaves, chief operating officer of
Pawtucket, Rhode Island-based  Hasbro Inc. (HAS)   “In the U.S. we’re two years out of recession,
unemployment is increasing, under-employment is increasing,
 house prices  are still going down,” Hargreaves said on a July
18 conference call with analysts. “Retailers will be
appropriately cautious as they go into the end of the year.”  The U.S. economy, the world’s largest, expanded at a 1.9
percent annual rate in the first quarter, the slowest in almost
a year. Gross domestic product rose 2 percent in the following
three months, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists from
June 28 to July 7.  It may average 3.2 percent in the second half of the year,
the median projection in the survey showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jillian Berman in Washington at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  