-- 
Ecuador Judge Orders Prison, Fine for Owners of El Universo

-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 
2011-07-21T05:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/ecuador-judge-orders-prison-fine-for-owners-of-el-universo.html
An Ecuadorean judge sentenced the
owners of El Universo, the nation’s biggest newspaper, and a
former editor at the publication to three years in prison and a
$40 million fine for libel against President  Rafael Correa , the
government said yesterday.  Nicholas, Cesar and Carlos Perez, whose family owns
Guayaquil-based El Universo, and Emilio Palacio, the former
editor of the newspaper’s opinion section, must pay Correa
$30 million for a February opinion piece written by Palacio, the
government said yesterday in a  statement  in the presidential
gazette.  The judge also fined  El Universo  $10 million for its
role in printing the article, the statement said.  The opinion column dealt with an incident at a Quito
hospital in September, when security forces opened fire in a
rescue attempt to free the president, who was trapped inside by
rioting police officers. The lawsuit has drawn criticism from
press freedom groups, including Quito-based Fundamedios,
concerned Correa is trying to stifle critics.  “This sentence sets a catastrophic precedent against
freedom of expression,” Fundamedios said in an e-mailed
statement after the sentence was published. The ruling
“confuses civil and criminal law, assigns responsibilities to a
newspaper for the opinions of a columnist and fixes
disproportionate fines in consideration of a public authority’s
honor.”  Appeal  Correa’s lawyer, Alembert Vera, called the ruling part of
the government’s fight to improve free speech, according to a
 separate statement  also published in the presidential gazette.  “This case has become a symbol of the fight begun by the
president of the republic to create true freedom of expression
in this country,” Vera said.  On Sept. 30, police demonstrating against wage cuts took
Correa hostage to demand changes to a new public service law. A
subsequent gunfight between the police and security forces loyal
to Correa, as well as related violence across the country, left
eight people dead and at least 274 injured.  Palacio said in a statement on his Twitter account he plans
to appeal the sentence. Vera said Correa hasn’t decided if he
will appeal the sentence to seek more money from the defendants,
according to the statement. Correa had sought $80 million in
damges.  Nicholas Perez confirmed the sentence and amount of the
fine in a statement on his Twitter account and criticized the
ruling for applying a prison sentence in a libel suit.  “The prison and fine are impressive,” he said.
“Disastrous precedent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  