-- 
Edwards Wins Panel Support to Sell First Less-Invasive Heart Valve in U.S.

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-07-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/edwards-wins-panel-support-to-sell-first-less-invasive-heart-valve-in-u-s-.html
Edwards Lifesciences Corp. (EW)  won an
advisory panel’s support for the first less-invasive  heart valve 
to be marketed in the U.S. for patients who are too sick for
chest-opening surgery.  The benefits of the device for patients with a narrowing of
their aortic valve outweighed the risk of stroke and hemorrhage
associated with the product, advisers to the  Food and Drug
Administration  said in a 9-0 vote yesterday with one abstention
in Gaithersburg,  Maryland . The panel earlier voted 7-3 that the
Irvine, California-based company’s valve, called Sapien, is safe
and 9-1 that it is effective.  If it gains approval, the Edwards device would be the first
so-called transcatheter valve sold in a U.S. market estimated to
reach $1.3 billion by 2014, according to a report from Bloomberg
Industries. The valve has been available in  Europe  since 2007.  “We feel this reduction in mortality in inoperable
patients outweighed the significant risks with the device, most
notably stroke and vascular injury,” Julia Swain, with the
FDA’s circulatory support and prosthetics branch in the division
of cardiovascular devices, told the panel.  Edwards fell $2.12, or 2.4 percent, to $87.53 at 4:15 p.m.
yesterday in New York Stock Market trading before the panel’s
votes. The company’s shares gained 8.3 percent this year.  About 300,000 people in the U.S. suffer from severe aortic
stenosis, which is a narrowing of the valve, according to
Edwards. Two-thirds undergo standard chest-cracking surgery to
replace the valve, while the risk of surgery may be too high for
the rest. Minneapolis-based  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)   began  a clinical
trial in December in the U.S. of a rival device.  ‘Strong Recommendation’  “We are pleased with the panel’s strong recommendation for
approval,” Michael A. Mussallem, Edwards’s chairman and chief
executive officer, said in a statement. “This represents
another important step on the path to what we hope will lead to
FDA approval.”  The Sapien can be implanted by a catheter threaded through
the leg or ribs rather than conventional chest-opening surgery.
Transcatheter sales generated $206 million last year for
Edwards, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The FDA and
Edwards agreed patients with severe aortic valve narrowing who
are allowed to use the device should also be symptomatic.  Sixty-nine percent of patients who received the Sapien
valve lived after one year compared with 50 percent in a
clinical trial group receiving standard therapy, according to an
FDA staff  report  released July 18. The agency called the results
“an impressive reduction of mortality” while raising concerns
that not much data exists beyond two years.  Panel’s Concerns  The panel raised concerns that death rates were higher in a
small group of patients enrolled in a continuing access program
after the study was complete. Thirteen patients, or 32 percent,
who received the valve, died after one year in the continuing
access program compared with 10 patients, or 20 percent, who
received other therapy.  Inclusion of the additional data may decrease the benefit
of the device, they said.  The FDA staff recommended a post-approval study to provide
long-term follow up. Edwards plans to analyze the durability of
the valve and patient quality of life for five years in
additional post-approval research, according to a company
presentation to the panel.  In the clinical trial, 20 patients, or about 11 percent,
who received the Sapien valve experienced stroke after one year
compared with eight patients, or 4.5 percent, who were treated
with other therapy, such as balloon aortic valvuloplasty,
according to the report. Edwards underreported stroke in its
analysis of the study by counting only “major strokes” when
stroke severity wasn’t measured during the trial, the FDA said.  One hundred patients, or 60 percent, who received the valve
experienced complications such as blood clots after one year,
compared with 25 patients, or 14 percent, who were treated with
other therapy, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 