-- 
Edwards Campaign Ordered to Repay $2.3 Million to U.S. Treasury

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-07-21T17:29:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/edwards-campaign-ordered-to-repay-2-3-million-to-u-s-treasury.html
John Edwards , who sought the
Democratic presidential nomination in 2008, must repay $2.3
million he received in federal matching funds because his
campaign understated its cash and overstated its expenses, the
 Federal Election Commission  said.  The FEC audited Edwards’s campaign finances and determined
that some payroll costs didn’t qualify for matching funds
because they were incurred after Edwards dropped out of the race
in January 2008. Edwards’s campaign lawyers contend that the
expenses were for work his staff did before he withdrew.  The campaign “has offered a number of explanations to
demonstrate why this payroll should be considered a qualified
campaign expense,” the FEC report released today said. “To
date, the audit staff has not accepted any of the
explanations.”  Edwards, who served one term as a senator from  North
Carolina  and was the Democrats’ vice presidential candidate in
2004, received a total of $13 million in federal matching funds
for his 2008 campaign. In August 2008, more than six months
after quitting the race, he acknowledged an affair with a
campaign aide,  Rielle Hunter ; a year later he admitted that he
was the father of Hunter’s child. His estranged wife, Elizabeth,
died of  breast cancer  in December 2010.  After a lengthy Justice Department investigation, Edwards
was indicted in June on six counts, including conspiracy, making
false statements and accepting illegal campaign contributions.
Prosecutors contend that the contributions, which totaled almost
$1 million, were used to hide the affair. Edwards could face
trial in October.  His attorneys argued to the FEC that some of the costs
related to the Justice Department investigation into his
campaign spending should be considered qualified campaign
expenses.  Edwards’ defunct campaign had $2.6 million in the bank as
of June 30, according to the FEC.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  