-- 
Egypt Swears In New Cabinet Members as Protests Force Change

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-07-21T11:39:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/egypt-swears-in-new-cabinet-members-as-protests-force-change-1-.html
Egypt  replaced some members of the
Cabinet in response to demands from protesters who have held
sit-ins for almost two weeks to press for faster changes after
the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak .  The swearing-in ceremony took place in Cairo today, the
state-run Middle East News Agency said. Hazem El Beblawi, an
economist and an adviser for the Arab Monetary Fund, was named
as finance minister, replacing  Samir Radwan , and will also serve
as deputy prime minister. Other new appointees are Ali Ibrahim
Sabri, as minister of military production, and Mahmoud Eissa as
trade and industry minister. Those who kept their posts include
the oil, interior, tourism and justice ministers.  The changes follow a revival of protests in Egypt, with
many camped out since July 8 in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square , the
center of the uprising against Mubarak. Demands include a new
government with more powers, the prosecution of former officials
accused of corruption and involvement in the killing of
demonstrators, and an end to military trials of civilians. Some
protesters also call for the removal of the public prosecutor.  “We want ministers and governors who have no ties to the
former ruling party,” which has been dissolved, Ahmed Maher,
general coordinator for the April 6 Youth Movement that helped
coordinate anti-Mubarak protests, said by phone today. “I
support having the sit-in continue until all the demands are
met,” he said.  Delayed by Objections  The swearing-in ceremony for the new Cabinet members,
originally scheduled for July 18, was delayed amid objections
over some candidates and a hospital visit for medical tests by
Prime Minister Essam Sharaf.  A coalition of protesting groups, the Alliance of the
Youths’ Revolution, said in a statement that it was “giving a
chance to the Cabinet reshuffle,” while demanding “the full
cleansing of ministries in which the consultations indicated
that symbols of the former regime may remain at the helm.”  The Cabinet reshuffle may take some of the steam out of
protests, though it probably won’t result in policy changes,
Mustapha K. al-Sayyid, a professor of political science at Cairo
University, said on July 18. The new ministers are “not known
to be adopting a different approach” and have “a very short
time to undertake any fundamental change,” he said.  The authorities responded to another demand voiced by the
demonstrators last week, announcing the dismissal of hundreds of
senior police officers.  Mubarak stepped down on Feb. 11 after mass protests and
ceded interim authority to the Supreme Council of the Armed
Forces, which says it will hand power to civilian authorities
after elections. The military says it will announce before the
end of September the date for the parliamentary elections
expected to take place before the end of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 