-- 
Egypt Keeps Benchmark Interest Rate Unchanged to Help Economic Growth

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-07-21T15:16:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/egypt-keeps-interest-rates-unchanged-at-8-25-to-help-economic-growth.html
Egypt ’s  central bank  kept its
benchmark interest rate at the lowest level in more than four
years with the aim of helping the economy after the popular
uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak .  The Monetary Policy Committee left the key overnight
deposit rate at 8.25 percent and the overnight lending rate at
9.75 percent, the central bank said on its website. All five
economists surveyed by Bloomberg anticipated the decision.  The turmoil that accompanied the overthrow of Mubarak in
February may slow economic growth to 1 percent in 2011, the
lowest rate in almost two decades, the  International Monetary
Fund  says. The annual inflation rate in urban parts of Egypt
declined in June to 11.8 from about 11.9 percent in May as food
prices rose at a slower pace.  “The rates are maintained in an effort to support
investments,” said  Mona Mansour , co-head of research at Cairo-
based investment bank CI Capital. “It isn’t very much possible
to cut the  interest rates  when inflation is still high.”  Since the uprising, tourists have fled, foreign investors
dumped Treasury bills and factory output was hit by protests and
strikes. The benchmark EGX 30 stock index is down 28 percent
this year.  The economy shrank an annual 4.2 percent in the quarter
that ended in March and investment plunged 26 percent. Previous
governments have said they need growth of about 7 percent to
create enough jobs for a growing working-age population.  Fresh Protests  Cairo and other cities have witnessed a fresh wave of
protests this month demanding faster change from the army
generals who took over from Mubarak. Demands include the
prosecution of former officials accused of corruption and
involvement in the killing of demonstrators, and an end to
military trials of civilians.  The central bank has kept its benchmark interest rate on
hold since September 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 