-- 
Telenor Announces Share Buyback After Profit Meets Estimates

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-07-21T10:38:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/telenor-announces-share-buyback-after-profit-meets-estimates-1-.html
Telenor ASA (TEL) , the Nordic region’s
largest phone company, reported second-quarter profit that
matched analyst estimates and said it will buy back shares.  Net income declined to 4.49 billion kroner ($820 million)
from 9.49 billion kroner a year earlier, Fornebu, Norway-based
Telenor said today in a statement. An accounting change
temporarily doubled VimpelCom Ltd.’s contribution in last year’s
second quarter. Analysts had predicted profit of 4.5 billion
kroner according to the average of 18 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Telenor added 8 million subscribers in the quarter, driven
by  Asia , where revenue gained 10 percent. Mobile revenue in
 Norway  and  Denmark  declined. The Indian unit reduced its loss
from the previous year and quarter. The company plans to buy
back about 3 percent of shares, it said.  “Based on the trends so far this year, we maintain our
revenue guidance and expect a somewhat stronger  cash flow  than
indicated earlier,” Chief Executive Officer Jon Fredrik Baksaas
said in the statement. Telenor predicted revenue growth of above
5 percent for the year.  The shares rose as much as 2.5 percent and traded at 87.85
kroner, up 1.5 percent, at 12:39 p.m. in Oslo.  While there is potential for market consolidation in Sweden
and Denmark, “that window of opportunity has not opened up,”
Baksaas said in an interview.  Norway Position  The company doesn’t expect to expand in Norway because of
its market-leading position.  “We wouldn’t certainly be the guys that could entertain
that with the leading market share we have,” the CEO said. “We
would not be allowed, because of competition legislation, to
consolidate in Norway.”  Telenor said today it will spend 11 to 12 percent of
revenue on capital expenditure, compared with 12 to 13 percent
earlier. The Uninor subsidiary in  India  will spend about 1
billion kroner compared with as much as 1.5 billion kroner
predicted earlier, Telenor said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  