-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Gain on Optimism Greek Bailout Plan is Advancing

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-07-21T21:10:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/emerging-market-stocks-gain-on-optimism-greek-bailout-plan-is-advancing.html
Emerging-market stocks gained for
the fourth day in five as European leaders announced a plan to
give additional aid to  Greece  and buy stressed sovereign debt
across the region.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 0.6 percent to
1,143.29 at 4:45 p.m. in New York, after falling as much as 0.4
percent earlier.  Brazil ’s Bovespa index gained 1.9 percent, its
largest one-day advance in more than seven months. Russia’s
Micex added 1.6 percent as crude climbed to a one-month high.
Hungary’s benchmark equities gauge surged 2 percent and the
Czech PX Index rose 1.4 percent.  European leaders empowered their 440-billion euro ($635
billion) rescue fund to buy debt across stressed euro nations
after eight hours of talks in Brussels. The fund can also aid
troubled banks and offer credit-lines to repel speculators.
Leaders pledged a 160 billion euro aid package for Greece, eased
the terms of its existing loans and cajoled bondholders into
footing part of the bill.  “If this comes to fruition, it could mean that the
probability of an uncontrolled default and knock-on to the
European banking system has been forestalled,” said  Michael Roche , an emerging-market strategist at MF Global in New York.
“However, the longer-term impacts on European creditworthiness
are still unknown.”  Turkey ’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  lost 1.2 percent after
falling as much as 3.6 percent after Fitch Ratings Ltd. said the
country’s current-account deficit and the pace of bank lending
growth made an upgrade of the country’s credit rating
“uncertain.”  The Polish zloty strengthened 1.8 percent versus the dollar
and the South African rand appreciated 1.4 percent.  Brazil  The Bovespa gained for a third day after Brazilian policy
makers signaled they may stop raising borrowing costs after a
fifth straight increase in the benchmark interest rate. The
central bank increased the Selic rate by a quarter point to
12.50 percent yesterday.  Gafisa SA, Brazil’s third-largest homebuilder by revenue,
rose 7 percent, leading gains by companies that depend on
domestic demand. BRF Brasil Foods SA, the world’s largest
poultry producer, gained 2 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index sank 1 percent, declining for
a fourth day, as preliminary data from a purchasing managers’
index fell to 48.9 in July from 50.1 in June, HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics said in a statement. A reading below 50
indicates a contraction. A final report is due on Aug. 1.  South Korea   South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slid 0.5 percent.  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , the world’s second-largest
computer-memory chipmaker, dropped 2.3 percent as second-quarter
profit slumped amid lower chip prices. Hyundai Heavy Industries
Co., the world’s biggest shipbuilder, tumbled 5.1 percent after
saying quarterly profit dipped 17 percent.  LG Chem Ltd. (051910) , South Korea’s biggest chemicals maker,
plunged 6.5 percent, the second-worst performer on the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index. The company posted a 3.3 percent decline
in second-quarter profit, missing analyst estimates.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed 11 basis points to 298, or
2.98 percentage points, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global
Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  