-- 
Tenaga Reports First Loss in Three Years on Higher Energy Costs

-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 
2011-07-21T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/tenaga-reports-first-loss-in-three-years-on-higher-energy-costs.html
Tenaga Nasional Bhd. (TNB) , Malaysia’s
biggest electricity producer, reported its first quarterly loss
in almost three years after being hurt by higher power
generation costs due to a shortage of gas and rising coal prices.  The Kuala Lumpur-based utility posted a loss 440.2 million
ringgit ($147 million), or 8.1 sen a share, in its third quarter
ended May, compared with net income of 1.11 billion ringgit, or
20.4 sen a share, a year earlier. Sales were little changed at
7.8 billion ringgit, the company said in an exchange filing late
yesterday.  Full-year results will be “severely affected” by coal
prices and the acquisition of alternative fuels due to continued
lower gas supplies, its statement said today. “It’s going to be
quite challenging,” Chief Executive Officer Che Khalib Mohamad Noh told reporters in  Kuala Lumpur .  State oil company Petroliam Nasional Bhd. has cut gas
supply while conducting maintenance at its plants. Tenaga has
been buying oil and distillate, more expensive alternative fuels,
from local suppliers to compensate. Its fuel bill rose to 2.1
billion ringgit in the quarter, including an additional bill of
1.3 billion ringgit for oil and distillate, Chairman Leo Moggie
told reporters.  Petroliam Nasional, or Petronas, will conduct three more
maintenance exercises this year, which will continue to limit
gas supply, Che Khalib said.  Tariff Increase  At the same time, Tenaga said it paid an average $109 per
metric ton for the coal used to power its plants, up 18 percent
from $92 in the same quarter a year earlier. The company’s
profitability falls 18 percent for every $10-a-ton increase in
coal prices, Che Khalib said in January.  Tenaga shares have fallen 2.6 percent this year, compared
with a 3 percent gain in the FTSE Bursa  Malaysia  KLCI Index. The
stock fell 1.1 percent to close at 6.52 ringgit in Kuala Lumpur
before yesterday’s earnings announcement.  To help pass on costs, Prime Minister Najib Razak’s
government allowed Tenaga to raise electricity charges for the
first time in almost three years by an average 7.1 percent
starting in June.  The increased electricity tariffs haven’t helped much, Che
Khalib said. “It costs six times more to generate electricity
using oil and distillate,” he said.  The group last reported a quarterly loss in the three
months ended November 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  