-- 
Mercedes-Benz $123,000 Wild Thing Howls, Buzzes, Says ‘Please’

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-07-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/mercedes-benz-123-000-wild-thing-howls-says-please-jason-h-harper.html
The navigation system in the latest
 Mercedes-Benz CLS AMG  uses the word “please.” Perhaps other
turn-by-turn systems also use niceties, but I’ve never noticed.  It caught my attention because the cheery female voice
sounds so polite against the furious maelstrom of the 550-hp
engine at full tilt.  The CLS63 is a civilized beast.  When Benz released the first-generation CLS in 2004, it
caused a fuss. A design breakaway, it was a four-door with the
streamlined ceiling of a two-door sports car. The stylized ride
filled an imaginary hole between two other large Mercedes: the
two-door CL and the E-Class sedan. Really, it was just darn
cool.  Mercedes decided to brand it a “four-door coupe,” a
wrongheaded conjunction of words and a general assault upon
vehicular vocabulary. It was such a beautiful creation that I
forgave it.  This second generation is less showy. The bravura
silhouette has been reined in, looking more like a traditional
four-door. After driving it, I can forgive that too.  The 2012 models come in three versions: the $72,175 CLS550,
$74,675 all-wheel-drive 4MATIC and $95,775 CLS63 AMG.  The engine on the 550 model has plenty of pop. It gets a
new 4.6-liter, direct-injection, twin-turbo V-8 good for 402
horsepower and 443 pound-feet of torque. The company says it is
also 26 percent more fuel efficient than the outgoing, for 16
city, 24 highway.  Animal Power  Believe unbridled power is the only way to go? The AMG
model’s 5.5-liter V-8 comes in two blow-your-face-off
variations, producing either 518 hp and 516 lb-ft of torque or
550 hp and 590 lb-ft. Positively animalistic.  As tested, my CLS63 with the AMG performance package (which
adds the extra power), came to $123,525. That’s a price with a
nasty bite. Mileage is 15 city and 22 highway.  During the first half of a long day’s drive around that
grassy place known as  Connecticut , I left the sports stuff
alone. With the suspension and drive select in comfort modes,
the engine was quiet, the ride cosseting, the cabin quiet.  It gave me time to assess the interior. It fits four,
though backseat occupants only moderately comfortably. Carbon-
fiber accents are attractive, yet the Alcantara-covered steering
wheel felt too slick in my hands.  Gadget Inspector  Mercedes is also due for a reinvention of its nav system
(that polite voice notwithstanding). The CLS still uses a
scrolling system, operated by a dial, to pick your intended
address. Benz seems worried it will alienate older brand
loyalists with too many gee-whiz gadgets.  That’s in contrast to  Audi , which updates its electronics
as often as  Steve Jobs  reinvents Apple’s oeuvre. Noteworthy,
the stylish A7 is a direct competitor to the CLS; some would say
it’s a rip-off, even. The A7’s rear hatch has more storage, too.  My CLS beeped when it sensed itself hurtling toward another
car’s bumper too quickly, and elicits an even more annoyed
buzzer if you turn on a blinker with another car in your blind
spot. Unlike several brands, these safety systems are integrated
in a mostly harmonious way.  Passing through the tidy town of Kent, I spied a  Porsche 
Carrera GT, a Porsche 911 Turbo and even a vintage  Jaguar  race
car -- wild things in a bastion of civility. While they couldn’t
hide their primal natures, my CLS63 indisputably could.  Mark of the Beast  Later, deep in the woods, I made a few modifications.
Suspension into sport sharp. Traction control to sport. There’s
also an AMG button which will turn everything to Def Con 1 in a
single stroke.  Sloughing off civilization, I let the beast howl. From a
stop sign, it leaned back hard onto rear tires and lunged, the
phenomenal 590 pound-feet of torque somehow not overpowering
traction to the 19-inch tires.  The performance speed raises the electronically-limited top
speed to 186 mph, so no surprise that the CLS63 would be a pack
leader on the autobahn. Yet it’s significantly surprising on
back roads, too. It’s not a small car, but you know exactly
where it fits into the lane, the mule-kicking power balanced by
crisp steering and ideally-weighted brakes.  You can choose the AMG version of Mercedes models across
the line, and the engines have always been chock-full of torque.
Lately, however, the cars themselves have taken a leap forward,
perhaps due to lessons learned on the SLS Gullwing supercar,
which AMG created top to bottom.  Whatever the case, the AMG version of the CLS is a machine
that is in harmony with both sides of its personality.  At a certain point a sport bike dropped into my wake,
following my hard-driving path through the woods. When we
finally came to a stop sign in the middle of nowhere, I waved
him by. He shook his head. Negative. He was happy to stick
behind.  The 2012 Mercedes-Benz CLS63 At a Glance  Engine: 5.5-liter twin-turbo V-8 with 550 horsepower and  590 pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Seven-speed automated.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 4.3 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 15 city; 22 highway.  Price as tested (with performance package): $123,525.  Best features: Ferocious performance, good manners.  Worst features: Seats only four; old navigation system.  Target buyer: The driver who wants a four door that can  stay in the hunt.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 