-- 
Terex May Cut Stake in ‘Struggling’ China Venture, CEO Says

-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 
2011-07-21T21:10:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/terex-may-cut-stake-in-struggling-china-venture-ceo-says.html
Terex Corp. (TEX) , a U.S. maker of
construction equipment, said it may cut its stake in a
“struggling” Chinese truck-crane joint venture or look for
alternative partners after sales were lower than expected.  Sichuan Changjiang Engineering Crane Co. is “struggling a
little bit,” Chief Executive Officer  Ron DeFeo  said yesterday
on a conference call. Chinese truck-crane demand fell in the
second quarter, the company said. It “may be better” for
Westport, Connecticut-based Terex to own less than 50 percent of
the venture, he said in a telephone interview.  “Whatever it takes to strengthen the joint venture, we
would consider,” DeFeo said in the interview.  “The joint venture partners’ interests and our interests
aren’t always aligned,” he said. “When those interests don’t
align, sometimes the business doesn’t always perform at the
level you’d like. That’s what has happened here.”  Terex dropped 11 percent in New York trading yesterday.
Second-quarter profit excluding a gain on the sale of Bucyrus
International Inc. shares and excluding charges related to
Terex’s crane business and the acquisition of Demag Cranes AG
were 10 cents a share, the company said July 20 in a statement.
That missed the 18-cent average estimate of 19 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Terex purchased its stake in the venture in 2006. It can’t
buy the other 50 percent under Chinese law, DeFeo said. The rest
of the venture is currently owned by private Chinese investors,
according to Terex.  ‘Right Owner’  “It may be better for us to own less than 50 percent,”
DeFeo said. “We will evaluate that down the road. If there was
a different partner that owned the other 50 percent or 55
percent or whatever, that would be very important to us.”  “You want to get the right owner, someone who wants to
build the business and has a long-term view,” DeFeo said. “If
we could change that, that would be of interest to us.”  DeFeo declined to comment on whether Terex is involved in
any talks with other Chinese investors.  Terex fell $2.89 to $24.32 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, the lowest closing price since May
28, 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net  