-- 
Ericsson Profit Misses Estimates on Margins, Job-Cut Costs

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-07-21T07:31:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/ericsson-q2-net-income-rises-to-3-12b-kronor.html
Ericsson AB, the largest maker of
wireless networks, reported profit that missed analysts’
estimates on slower services growth and bigger-than-anticipated
job-cut costs, sending the stock to its biggest drop since 2009.  Second-quarter net income was 3.12 billion kronor ($488
million), missing the 3.88 billion-krona average estimate of
analysts. Ericsson had costs of 1.3 billion kronor to eliminate
jobs in  Sweden . Gross profit margin dropped 1.2 percentage
points to 37.8 percent, the Stockholm-based company said today.  Wireless vendors are competing to control base stations
used by third-generation, or 3G, mobile-broadband networks to
prepare for fourth-generation technology coming into use in the
U.S. and  Europe . Sales in  North America , Ericsson’s biggest
market, fell 6 percent, while revenue in  India  and northeast
 Asia  including  China  doubled on mobile broadband rollouts.  “These results suggest that gross margins are peaking for
Ericsson,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst led by Tim Boddy
wrote in a note. “We see earnings growth and earnings momentum
slowing sharply” in the second half.  Ericsson shares fell as much as 7.6 kronor to 84.30 kronor,
the biggest decline since October 2009, and traded at 84.60
kronor as of 9:20 a.m. in  Stockholm .  Market Mix  Revenue rose 14 percent to 54.7 billion kronor in the
period. Analysts had predicted sales of 54.5 billion kronor.  “In the quarter we saw a change in market mix where
Brazil, China, Germany, Korea, and Russia showed especially
strong growth both year-over-year and sequentially,” Chief
Executive Officer Hans Vestberg said in a statement. “The U.S.
maintained its high business activity although sequentially the
networks business was somewhat slower.”  Ericsson said today its full-year restructuring expenses
will be about 3 billion kronor, compared with previous guidance
of 2 billion kronor.  Ericsson bolstered its U.S. sales when it bought Nortel’s
North American wireless unit in 2009 as the Canadian former
rival started to break up. That made the U.S. the company’s
biggest market, ahead of China and India.  The U.S. market is important for Ericsson as  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
Verizon Wireless add capacity to keep up with data demand from
smartphone and tablet customers.  Huawei Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp. (000063) , Chinese
manufacturers that have driven down prices and grabbed market
share in other regions as they expanded, don’t win contracts in
the U.S. because of security concerns.  Fourth-Generation Networks  Ericsson announced orders in the quarter for fourth-
generation networks for Rogers Communications Inc. in Canada, LG
Uplus Corp. in South Korea and the Australian government’s NBN
Co. broadband-network developer.  The Swedish company generated about 39 percent of  revenue 
last year from services, including outsourcing contracts to
manage entire telephone networks. It agreed in June to buy
Telcordia Technologies Inc., adding software and services for
clients who choose not to outsource their  network management .  Ericsson led the wireless-equipment industry with a 34.5
percent market share in the first quarter, according to Redwood
Shores, California-based researcher Dell’Oro Group. Nokia
Siemens followed with 20.3 percent, about tying with Huawei at
20.3 percent. Alcatel-Lucent’s share was 13.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  