-- 
Merkel Drive to Save Euro May See Joint Bond Surrender as Crisis Spreads

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-07-21T11:54:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/merkel-drive-to-save-euro-may-see-joint-bond-surrender-as-crisis-spreads.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  may
need to abandon her opposition to issuing common bonds in order
to stop a debt crisis that is threatening to splinter the euro
region.  Merkel, who calls the single currency a “work of peace”
and part of Europe’s “uniting idea,” is the key holdout on so-
called euro bonds. With leaders meeting in Brussels today, her
stance may eventually weaken amid signs the heart of Europe is
becoming infected by the 21-month debt crisis as yields on
Spanish and Italian 10-year bonds reach euro-era records.  “Once they look into the abyss of a major speculative
attack on  Italy ,” Merkel will have to embrace euro bonds,  Peter Bofinger , a member of the chancellor’s  Council of Economic
Advisers , said in a telephone interview. “That would be the
turning point. There needs to be a joint guarantee for all
outstanding debt.”  As investors test the resolve of policy makers, Merkel is
wavering between the legacy of  Helmut Kohl  and voters in
Europe’s largest economy disgruntled with bailing out its
partners. Kohl, Merkel’s political mentor, was the pro-European
chancellor who sold skeptical Germans on swapping the deutsche
mark for euros in the 1990s and championed his nation’s role as
Europe’s paymaster as part of its post-World War II penance.  ‘Political Union’  France  sees little room for a common bond without more
integration of Europe’s fiscal and budgetary regimes, a French
official said. German Deputy Foreign Minister Werner Hoyer said
it will require a closer “political union.”  “If we further develop the European Union toward a
political union, then the question of liability via euro bonds
is an option,” Hoyer said in an interview today. German
constitutional rules bar the introduction of the debt
instruments currently, he said.  “It’s a fact of life that common currency areas have
subsidies from the rich to the poor,” said Marchel
Alexandrovich, an economist at Jefferies International Ltd. in
London. “You need euro bonds for the show to go on.”  Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  agreed on a
joint position on Greece after a seven-hour meeting that ended
after midnight, government statements said. Details will be
announced later today.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told
reporters as he arrived at today’s summit that he doesn’t expect
a euro bond to be agreed this week.  Taxpayers  Merkel rejects issuing common debt as a step too far
because it would remove pressure on governments with ballooning
deficits to pursue austerity, and also risk pushing up the cost
of credit for her taxpayers.  Germany  currently pays investors 2.77 percent to borrow for
10 years compared with Greece’s 17.34 percent. Yields on Spanish
and Italian 10-year and Greek two-year bonds hit euro-era
records this week as investor concerns that this week’s summit
will fail to fix the crisis unsettling financial markets.  The German position “remains in effect,” Steffen Seibert,
Merkel’s chief spokesman, said July 15. Shared bonds would
lessen the pressure for budget discipline and this “contradicts
the basic structure of the European currency union,” he said.  Euro Bond Yield  The euro area as a whole might pay around 4.8 percent to
borrow for a decade, based on current markets and debt levels,
Alexandrovich and colleagues at Jefferies calculate. That
suggests Germany would need to afford a yield of about 2
percentage points higher than today or the equivalent of 44
billion euros ($62 billion) more in annual interest payments.  Common bonds are nevertheless gaining support elsewhere as
the crisis repeatedly foils policy makers. Italian Finance
Minister  Giulio Tremonti , Irish Foreign Minister Eamon Gilmore
and Pacific Investment Management Co., the manager of the
world’s largest bond fund, have all backed the concept.  Domestic politics loom large in Merkel’s rejection.
Lawmakers in her governing coalition are opposed, reflecting
voter anger at three European bailouts since May 2010 to which
Germany is the single biggest country contributor.  Euro Gravediggers  Eighty-six percent of Germans are concerned about the value
of their savings and 47 percent want  Greece  evicted from the
euro area, according to a poll for ZDF public television
published last week.  Politicians who back measures such as common bonds “will
prove to be the euro’s gravediggers,” Otmar Issing, the
 European Central Bank ’s former chief economist, said in a July
19 interview in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung newspaper.
“The consequences of this policy will strangle Germany.”  A compromise proposed by the Brussels-based research group
 Bruegel  would see countries fold debts up to 60 percent of gross
domestic product into a joint “blue” bond. That would likely
enjoy relative lower  interest rates  than even low-deficit
governments now pay, in part because of the more liquid market.  Any excess debt would then be sold on a national basis as a
“red” bond with a higher yield.  “I’m growing more sympathetic to the red-blue bond
approach,” said  Gilles Moec , co-chief European economist at
Deutsche Bank AG in  London . “You want a combination of
accommodation and incentives for fiscal discipline.”  Final Straw  Euro bonds may become inevitable, said  Frank Schaeffler , a
lawmaker for Merkel’s Free Democratic Party coalition partner,
who predicts Greece will succumb to a temporary exit from the
euro region.  They “would be the last straw and Merkel knows it,” he
said in an interview. “The reality is we’re steaming ahead into
euro-bond land, it’s just a few stations down the line. We may
not be about to create instruments that are called euro bonds
but don’t be fooled by the labels.”  Merkel regularly tells Germans their export-driven economy,
which grew last year at the fastest pace since reunification,
has benefited the most from the 12-year-old currency union that
underpins a market of more than 300 million people. With the
debt crisis worsening, the nation’s investor confidence fell in
July to the lowest since January 2009.  Kohl Angst  To contain the crisis, European officials will today
consider steps previously rejected by Germany, including the use
of precautionary credit lines, a person close to the talks said
yesterday. Other options for discussion include enabling the
main 440 billion-euro rescue fund to lend to recapitalize banks,
said the person, who declined to be named because the
negotiations were in progress.  Kohl, 81 and retired from politics, expressed concern about
the euro’s future in a July 17 interview with the Bild
newspaper. “What is needed now is to find sensible ways at a
difficult time to heal these mistakes and make  Europe  and the
euro durable,” he said.  Merkel, who saw capitalism from behind the Iron Curtain
while growing up in then-communist East Germany, will be
“steamrollered by events,” said Fredrik Erixon, head of the
European Centre for International Political Economy in Brussels.  “Germany is rejecting all kinds of proposals to deal with
the debt problem but Merkel is not coming up with any real ideas
on how she’d like to see the crisis resolved,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Brussels at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in Brussels at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  