-- 
Lessons of History Would Help Obama Lead on Libya: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-21T00:20:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/lessons-of-history-would-help-obama-assume-nato-leadership-on-libya-view.html
“ NATO  hits one tank and then goes
away,” lamented a commander of  Libya ’s opposition forces to the
Washington Post. “But NATO could turn this war around in a day
if they wanted to.”  Muammar Qaddafi , by threatening to launch
terrorist attacks against Europe, has given the Obama
administration a solid rationale for doing just that. After four
months of letting European nations show what they can do, the
Obama administration should heed an important lesson from the
war in Bosnia and take over leadership of NATO’s air campaign.  “You will regret it, NATO, when the war moves to Europe,”
Qaddafi warned Europeans recently. Libyan fighters will “attack
your homes, your offices and your families,” he said. Having
already killed hundreds in the Pan Am 103 terrorist attack,
Qaddafi’s threat is credible enough. President  Barack Obama  need
not wait for the Libyan leader to extend his threats to  North
America  to conclude that what was once a moral intervention to
save Libyan civilians is now a national security imperative.  Just as in March, when the White House used Qaddafi’s
threat to wipe out the civilian population of Benghazi to
justify the original intervention, it can now cite the Libyan
leader’s threat of terrorism against the West as a reason to
step up U.S. involvement.  Perhaps the biggest obstacle to such a decision is
political. Twice this summer, the  House of Representatives  voted
on the war in Libya, and twice it showed bipartisan opposition
to even the supporting role the U.S. is playing.  The politics of the Libyan war aren’t straightforward. Some
Republicans, such as Senator  John McCain  and  Senator Lindsey Graham , want the U.S. to do more than support its NATO allies:
They want Washington to lead, as it did in Kosovo and Bosnia in
the 1990s. Opposing them is a large group of House Republicans
who say the U.S. has no national security interest at stake.
These politicians acknowledge the risk that Qaddafi will snuff
out Libya’s pro-democracy opposition, including many thousands
of civilians, but they say Libya is closer to Europe, so the
Europeans should handle it.  Democrats are also divided. Some, like Senator  John Kerry 
and Senator  Harry Reid , support the Obama administration’s
limited approach. But a large number of Democrats in the House,
like their Republican counterparts, argue that the U.S. cannot
be the world’s policeman.  Today’s political confusion echoes a similar moment in the
early days of the previous Democratic president,  Bill Clinton .
At the time, both parties were internally divided over the
question of whether  Washington  should take the lead from Europe
in the effort to prevent  Slobodan Milosevic ’s Serbs from
slaughtering Bosnia’s Muslims in Sarajevo.  Like Obama today, Clinton wanted to focus on the domestic
economy and limit U.S. involvement to support for a European-led
military operation. Here the parallel gets a little eerie. In
trying to justify this stance, a top Clinton official,
Undersecretary of State Peter Tarnoff, said the U.S. was “too
poor to lead.” That infelicitous explanation haunted the Clinton
administration for most of its first two years.  Cut to May of this year, when a senior official in the
present administration made a similar  remark to the New Yorker .
Our strategy to support a European-led operation in Libya, this
unnamed official said, amounted to “leading from behind.” And it
is this explanation that now dogs the Obama administration.  The administration would do well to remember the key lesson
learned from Clinton’s early days. Because of the U.S.’s unique
combination of military, economic and political power, along
with  Europe ’s relative weakness, resolving a complex security
crisis like the one in Bosnia required U.S. leadership. Europe
was unable to muster a decisive response.  In 1995, Clinton took charge. The Bosnian Serbs suffered a
NATO air assault, succumbed to U.S. diplomatic pressure, and
accepted the  Dayton Peace Accords  that ended the war.
Politically, Clinton’s leadership united most of the disparate
elements of the  Democratic Party  and even won the respect of
many Republicans. That shift -- from “too poor to lead” to the
later formulation of “the indispensable nation” -- was a turning
point in Clinton’s presidency.  The Obama administration should make a similar strategic
shift: from a supporting role to the traditional U.S. role of
military leader of the NATO alliance. Doing so, we believe,
would hasten the end of the Qaddafi regime. It would also give
the U.S. a decisive influence on the events of the Arab spring.  Republican candidate  Tim Pawlenty  told Bloomberg View
earlier this week that the best way for the president to gain
Republican support for the Libya campaign would be to make the
case that Qaddafi now poses a threat to U.S. and Western
security. We agree.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 