-- 
Meth Addict With Flame Thrower Spared Prison

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-07-21T02:35:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/meth-addict-with-flame-thrower-spared-prison-as-u-s-states-cut-spending.html
Zackariah Lehnen, a 30-year-old
transient, was paroled from a  California  prison in November
after serving five months of a 16-month sentence for drug
possession. He left under a program intended to reduce state
costs by freeing nonviolent prisoners without supervision.  Six months later he was arrested and charged with murder in
the torture and  stabbing deaths  of an 89-year-old man and a 27-
year-old woman in a Los Angeles suburb, according to court
documents. He’s in jail, with a plea hearing set for July 28.  Lehnen’s case, reminiscent of Willie Horton, the
Massachusetts inmate who committed rape in 1987 after failing to
return from a weekend pass, is an extreme illustration of the
risks states face when they look to reduce prison spending by
locking up fewer convicts.  “It’s a perfect example of what goes wrong when you
prioritize saving money over public safety,” said Ted Lieu, a
former military prosecutor who’s now a Democratic state senator
from Torrance, in a telephone interview.  U.S. crime has  dropped  in the past two decades, a period
when the number of state prison inmates doubled to 1.4 million
and correctional spending more than tripled to $52.3 billion in
2009, according to the Pew Center on the States and the  National
Association of State Budget Officers , respectively. Now
deficits, and a rethinking of how convicts are handled, are
prompting states to reduce the number of convicts they hold.  ‘Danger to Society’  “We’re going to release more prisoners around the
country,” former  New York  City Police Commissioner William Bratton, who heads the security consulting firm Kroll Inc., said
in a telephone interview. “A large share of those being let out
are going to be people who are clearly a danger to society.”  The U.S. Supreme Court has ordered California to take
33,000 inmates out of prisons in two years to resolve
overcrowding and substandard health-care. California runs the
nation’s largest correctional system, with about  161,000 
inmates.  Governor  Jerry Brown , a 73-year-old Democrat, plans to meet
the Supreme Court order by no longer admitting low-level
offenders to state prison, leaving that responsibility to local
 law enforcement .  “The system of corrections itself is failing with a 70
percent recidivism rate, and at a cost of $50,000 per inmate,
this is not a sustainable system,” Brown, who was previously
the state attorney general, said in an April  press conference .
“The realignment plan is a very well-thought-out response to
the problem.”  Voter Support  By margins of more than 2-to-1, California voters oppose
increasing taxes to pay for new prisons and support early
release of nonviolent offenders, according to a  poll  made public
yesterday by the University of  Southern California  and the  Los
Angeles  Times.  As many as 15,500 felons and parole violators who would
have gone to prison will instead remain in the custody of Los
Angeles County jails, which are already near capacity under a
court-mandated population cap, District Attorney Steve Cooley
said in a February  report .  Among recently convicted felons who wouldn’t face prison
time in the future, according to Cooley: a methamphetamine
addict caught in possession of a flame thrower, a woman who
performed abortions without medical training and a credit-card
hacker responsible for $6.5 million in losses.  Kathryn Doyle, the mother of Erica Escobar, the 27-year-old
that Lehnen is charged with killing, said she is studying
California’s changing parole process with the goal of preventing
violent criminals from being released.  ‘My Daughter’s Dead’  “I understand prisons are overcrowded and the inhuman
treatment in them, but I don’t understand why my daughter’s
dead,” Doyle said while choking back tears in a telephone
interview. “I know she would want me to find out.”  The nation’s great lock-up began in the late 1960s and
early 1970s with crime-busting measures such as “three
strikes” laws -- mandatory prison terms after three or more
serious offenses -- that put repeat offenders behind bars for
extended periods, according to  Douglas Berman , a law professor
at  Ohio State University  in Columbus.  By 2009, the violent-crime rate was 43 percent below its
peak of 758 incidents per 100,000 population in 1991, according
to the  Federal Bureau of Investigation .  New York led states in trimming corrections spending by 9.5
percent to $2.7 billion in fiscal 2011, according to a survey
released in October by the Vera Institute of Justice, an
independent policy center based in  New York City .  Corrections Spending  Total corrections appropriations for the 44 states that
responded to Vera’s survey fell $361 million, or 1 percent, to
$34 billion. Fifteen states said they were closing facilities,
among them New York,  Delaware ,  Georgia  and  Louisiana .  During 2009, the most recent year for which statistics are
available, the  number of prisoners  under state supervision
nationwide fell by 2,900 or 0.2 percent, the first decline since
1972, according to the U.S. Bureau of Justice Statistics.  Rhode Island  and  Michigan  made the biggest prisoner cuts on
a percentage basis between 2008 and 2009, according to the  Pew
Center . From an all-time high of 51,554 in March 2007, Michigan
cut its inmate population by 8,100, by sending fewer parolees
back to prison for minor violations and by paroling more
convicts that had served their minimum sentences, according to
John Cordell, a spokesman for the state Corrections Department.  Michigan closed 15 of its 47 prisons or camps, shaved $170
million from its $2.1 billion annual budget and operates with
1,600 fewer employees, Cordell said.  States Reducing Terms  Other states are reducing prison terms for non-violent
offenders and investing in alternatives to incarceration.
 Vermont  gave courts authority to sentence certain offenders to
 home confinement . Washington sends nonviolent offenders who have
children to  parenting classes  where they are ordered to read to
their kids for 20 minutes a day.  Violent crimes fell 5.5 percent last year from 2009,
according to the  FBI.  Property crimes declined 2.8 percent.  The fact that crime continues to go down shows that
alternatives to prison for low-level offenders are a better use
of taxpayer money than $50,000-a-year lock-ups, according Adam
Gelb, director of the public safety performance project at Pew.  “States that have reduced their incarceration rates have
also seen a drop in their crime rates,” he said in a telephone
interview.  Lehnen, accused of the double murder in California, is an
example of how the state’s system for sorting inmates by the
risks they pose can fail, Lieu said. A month after his release
from prison, Lehnen was in a state court in  Beverly Hills , where
he pleaded no contest to assault.  Released Again  Though on parole at the time, and with prior convictions
for spousal battery and drug possession, Lehnen was released
again, unsupervised, on Dec. 23, court records show. Lehnen was
given credit for time served and good behavior, according to
court records.  “I don’t understand why he got the credits he did,” Steve
Katz, a deputy district attorney for Los Angeles County, said in
a telephone interview.  Lehnen met the criteria for unsupervised release in
November because his most serious prior conviction was for
drugs, according to Luis Patino, a spokesman for the state
Corrections Department.  Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department medical records on file in
the murder case indicate Lehnen has bipolar paranoid
schizophrenia and takes medication.  “This guy was bipolar and supposed to be on psych meds --
who is making sure he takes his meds?” asked Doyle, the murder
victim’s mother. “He’s not the only one. It’s a major
concern.”  To contact the reporter on this story: 
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: 
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  