-- 
EU May Consider Greek Guarantee to Offset ECB Concern

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-07-21T11:23:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/eu-said-to-consider-greek-bond-guarantee.html
Euro-region governments may
guarantee Greek bonds to make it easier for the  European Central
Bank  to accept a default of the indebted nation after months of
opposition to such a move, said two officials familiar with the
talks.  Policy makers would aim to keep any period of default as
short as possible, said an EU government official, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because deliberations before today’s
Brussels summit were confidential. The bonds could be backed up
by top-rated securities sold by the European Financial Stability
Facility, a national central bank official said. No decisions
have been taken and an ECB spokesman declined to comment.  The proposal signals that leaders may find a way for the
ECB to accept a default and sign up to a new package for  Greece ,
which is a key step in stopping  Europe ’s debt crisis spreading
to Italy and  Spain . ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet , who is at
the summit, has said until now that the ECB can’t accept
defaulted Greek bonds as collateral in market operations, a step
which would cut off funds to Greek banks.  “This could be the fix to the problem the ECB was
facing,” said Laurent Bilke, head of inflation strategy at
Nomura International in  London , who used to work at the ECB.
“If these guarantees are very short-term, maybe just for a few
days, just to tide them over a short selective default, then
taxpayers’ exposure will be limited.”  ECB Room  Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  told his country’s
parliament today that he sees “more room” for the ECB to
accept a selective default. Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-
Claude Juncker told reporters before the summit that a Greek
default can’t be excluded.  The risk was that a refusal by the ECB to fund Greek banks
would have a sparked a collapse of the country’s financial
system. The ECB is the main source of their funding and also
holds the bulk of the country’s sovereign debt.  As part of its recession-fighting armory, the ECB lends
banks as much money as they need for up to three months against
collateral determined at the central bank’s discretion.  While the ECB last year suspended the minimum credit rating
threshold for Greek banks, ECB Governing Council member Jens Weidmann from  Germany  told Die Zeit newspaper in an interview
published July 13 that it’s “not our job to finance insolvent
banks, never mind countries.”  Debt Burden  “The euro system only lends money against adequate
collateral,” he was quoted as saying.  German government officials have signaled that a
restructuring of Greek debt may be inevitable as governments try
to carve out a second bailout package for the debt-laden
country.  Leaders may turn to the EFSF fund to finance the Greek bond
agreement. The 440 billion-euro ($624 billion) EFSF fund,
overseen by euro nation governments, was set up last year to
raise emergency fund for debt-strapped nations. In June, it put
on sale 5 billion euros of 10-year notes at a yield of 3.49
percent.  So far, the fund has not been used for Greece even though
it has co-financed the Irish and Portuguese rescue packages.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  