-- 
Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Rice May Jump on Slump in Acreage

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-07-21T05:49:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/europe-commodity-day-ahead-rice-may-jump-on-slump-in-acreage.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Rice Seen at Three-Year High on Acreage Slump: Chart of the Day  Rice, the staple food for half the world, may jump to a
three-year high after U.S. farmers slashed the amount of land
sown with the grain by the most in more than a quarter century.  EXCLUSIVES:  Newedge Sees Gold at $1,800 This Year, Silver at $70 by March  Gold will surge to $1,800 an ounce by the yearend, and
silver will soar to $70 an ounce by March as physical demand
climbs in Asia and investors seek a haven, Newedge USA LLC said.  Ghana  to Raise $1.75 Billion for Cocoa Purchases in 2011/2012  Ghana’s Cocoa Board said it will raise $1.75 billion for
cocoa purchases in the 2011/2012 crop season, $250 million more
than a year earlier.  Severstal Lowest Bond Yield Signals Profit Jump:  Russia  Credit  OAO Severstal, Russia’s second-biggest steelmaker, is
borrowing at its lowest ever yield as rising metal prices drive
analyst expectations for the best earnings in three years.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Declines on China Manufacturing Data, Lending Controls  Copper declined in  London  as data showed manufacturing in
China, the largest consumer, may have fallen for the first time
in a year.  Zhu Says Rare Earth Prices Not Result of  China  Manipulation  It is a “misunderstanding” to believe that rising prices
of rare earths are manipulated by China’s government,  Zhu
Hongren , a spokesman for the Ministry of Industry and
 Information Technology , said in Beijing today.  Hyundai Steel Expects 10,000 Tons in Monthly Orders From Japan  Hyundai Steel Co. said it expects to receive monthly orders
for at least 10,000 metric tons of steel plates used for ships
from Japanese shipbuilders in the second half of this year.  MINING:  Posco to Buy Canadian Coal Mine Stake From Fortune Minerals  Posco, the world’s third-biggest steelmaker by output,
signed a contract to buy a 20 percent stake in the Mount Klappan
coal mine in  Canada  from Fortune Minerals Ltd. to add raw
material supply.  Sundance Resources Rises on Report of Potential Rival Bid  Sundance Resources Ltd., subject of a A$1.2 billion ($1.3
billion) cash takeover offer from its biggest shareholder
Sichuan Hanlong Group, rose to the highest in more than six
months in Sydney trading after the Australian Financial Review
reported a possible rival suitor was studying its accounts.  Anglo, Exxaro Coal Miners in  South Africa  Plan Strike Over Pay  Anglo American Plc, Exxaro Resources Ltd. and Optimum Coal
Holdings Ltd. face a strike over pay at their coal mines in
South Africa, the National Union of Mineworkers said.  BHP Billiton FY2011 EPS Estimate Raised 3.9% at Merrill Lynch  BHP Billiton Ltd. had its earnings per share estimate
raised by 3.9 percent for the year ended June 30 at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch after “higher than expected production
numbers” in the fourth quarter.  Northern Iron Says  Power Outage  Disrupts Sydvaranger Production  Northern Iron Ltd. said production has been disrupted at
its Sydvaranger Project due a power outage aggravating a minor
existing fault with the primary mill.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold May Drop as  Europe , U.S. Leaders Work to Ease Debt Concern  Gold, trading within 0.6 percent of an all-time high, may
drop after policy makers in Europe and U.S. made progress
tackling sovereign-debt challenges, trimming demand.  AGRICULTURE:  Corn Declines on Speculation Demand for U.S. Exports May Weaken  Corn dropped for a second day on speculation that increased
competition among exporters may hurt demand for U.S. shipments.
Wheat also fell while soybeans gained.  Rubber Falls From Six-Week High as Stronger Yen May Hurt Demand  Rubber fell from a six-week high after the Japanese
currency gained, making the yen-denominated commodity more
expensive, and a lack of progress toward a U.S. debt deal
clouded the outlook for Asian exports.  Paris Wheat May Rise 5.4% to Fibonacci Level:  Technical Analysis   Milling wheat futures are nearing short-term resistance
levels and may climb to 210 euros ($299) a metric ton in Paris,
implying a 5.4 percent increase, according to technical analysis
by Paris-based farm adviser Agritel.  China Pork Demand Means ‘Massive’ Imports From U.S., Stuart Says  U.S. pork exports will jump 23 percent or more this year
because of surging demand and prices in China, the world’s top
consumer, according to Brett Stuart, the co-founder of farm-
industry researcher Global AgriTrends.  Japan  Says Number of Cows Fed Radioactive Hay Doubles to 1,256  Japan’s government said the number of beef cattle fed with
hay contaminated by radiation doubled. The number rose to 1,256
cows by yesterday, said Kazutoshi Nobuto, a spokesman for the
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries.  China Sugar Imports at 110,000 Tons in June, Xinhua Says  China imported 110,000 tons of sugar in June, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported today, citing the Hong Kong-based
China Customs Statistics Information Center.  South Korean Importers Said to Buy 30,000 Tons of Milling Wheat  Five Korean flour producers including CJ CheilJedang Corp.
and Daehan Flour Mills Co. bought a total of 30,000 metric tons
of Australian milling wheat in a tender yesterday, according to
two industry executives who took part in the bidding.  Fonterra Says Milk Volumes Since June 1 Rise From Year Ago  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. said milk volumes so far
this season, which began June 1, are higher than the year-
earlier period because of favorable weather conditions in most
dairying regions in  New Zealand .  SHIPPING:  China International Marine Shares Gain on Profit Estimate  China International Marine Containers (Group) Co. gained
the most in one month in Shenzhen intraday trading after the
world’s largest maker of shipping containers said first-half
profit may more than triple.  ECONOMIES:  Merkel, Sarkozy Find Joint Position on  Greece  for EU Summit  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas
Sarkozy  agreed on a joint position to solve Greece’s debt crisis
on the eve of a summit convened to stamp out contagion in
European bond markets.  China’s Manufacturing May Contract for First Time in a Year  China’s manufacturing may contract for the first time in a
year as output and new orders drop, preliminary data for a
purchasing managers’ index indicated.  China CBRC Steps Up Risk Controls on Local Government Loans  China’s banking regulator said it will step up oversight of
property loans to the nation’s smaller cities and local
government financing vehicle loans in the second half of this
year.  Asia  Inflation Tough to Digest as Pork-to-Onion Costs Climb  Asian cuisine may be too much of a good thing for some of
the region’s central banks as policy makers grapple with the
challenge of responding to spikes in the cost of staples from
rice and pork to onions and chilies.  Singapore  Raises Inflation Forecast, Vigilant on Growth Risks  Singapore’s central bank raised its inflation estimate and
pledged to remain vigilant against risks to growth, saying the
economy may expand in the lower half of its forecast range.  Japan Exports Drop Less Than Estimated as Auto Decline Slows  Japan’s exports fell less than economists expected as the
decline in auto shipments slowed, underscoring the recovery of
the world’s third-largest economy from the March 11 earthquake
and tsunami.  OTHER MARKETS:  Oil Little Changed as China Report Counters U.S. Inventory Drop  Oil traded near the highest close in a week in  New York ,
swinging between gains and losses, as shrinking U.S. stockpiles
countered signs manufacturing may have contracted in China, the
world’s biggest energy user.  Asian Stocks Drop on Concern China Manufacturing Will Contract  Asian stocks dropped, with the regional benchmark index
falling for the first time in three days, on concern factory
output in China may have contracted in July and as companies
from Hynix Semiconductor Inc. and Hyundai Heavy Industries Co.
posted lower earnings.  Euro Rises for Third Day on German-French Agreement on Greece  The euro rose for a third day against the greenback after
Germany and  France  reached an agreement on addressing Greece’s
debt crisis before a summit convened to prevent contagion in
Europe’s bond markets.  Treasuries Fall a 2nd Day as Greece Accord Curbs Safety Demand  Treasuries fell as talks between German Chancellor Angela
Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy raised optimism the
European Union will help Greece avoid a default.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  