-- 
Euro Bonds May Be the Best Bet to Resolve the Debt Crisis: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-21T00:48:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/euro-bonds-may-be-the-best-bet-to-resolve-the-european-debt-crisis-view.html
The bond markets are sending
 Europe ’s leaders an unmistakable message: The opportunity to
contain the euro area’s debt crisis is slipping away. If they
want to save the union and its currency, the leaders will have
to consider something far more ambitious than what’s been
spelled out so far. Perhaps the unspecified agreement French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
reportedly reached last night on Greek debt marks the beginning
of a wider -- and bolder -- effort.  Only three weeks after Greece averted disaster by passing
the harsh austerity measures needed for a second bailout,
investors have refocused their concern on the much larger
economies of  Spain  and Italy. The yield on the 10-year Italian
government bond, for example, has risen almost a percentage
point to 5.6 percent as creditors demand bigger returns to
compensate for the perceived risk of default.  It’s hard to overstate how dangerous these developments are
for the euro area and the world.  Italy ’s debts are about three
times more than those of Greece, Ireland and Portugal combined.
Even one extra percentage point in borrowing costs would require
Italy to cut annual spending by an added $27 billion (19 billion
euros) to stabilize its debt burden. To get there, Italy would
need to roughly double the austerity measures it passed just
last week.  European leaders’ decision to hold an emergency meeting
this week suggests that they recognize the need to restore
confidence fast. But they’re still behind the curve. Even a
hefty increase in an existing $626 billion (440 billion-euro)
stabilization fund, along with proposals to shore up banks,
won’t fix the problems. There are two fundamental uncertainties:
How much investors and banks stand to lose if Ireland,  Portugal ,
Spain, Italy and even Belgium go through restructurings, and how
policy makers will prevent those losses from toppling the
region’s financial system.  Radical Solution  Only a radical solution can stop the rot. Politically
fraught as it may be, Sarkozy and  Merkel need to do what
 Alexander Hamilton  did in the 18th century to resolve a similar
crisis in the fledgling  United States : Push for the creation of
a federal finance ministry with the power to assume the debts of
individual euro-area members and the taxation authority to pay
the debts.  The finance ministry could offer to exchange the bonds of
individual euro-area governments for new euro bonds backed by
the full faith and credit of the entire 17-nation group. The
ministry could make the trade at full face value or
differentiate among countries -- offering, say, 50 cents on the
euro for Greek debt. Immediate provisions would have to be made
to recapitalize banks hit hard by such losses.  Far From Ideal  The solution is far from ideal.  Germany  and other fiscally
prudent nations would probably face higher borrowing costs.
Persuading individual leaders and the people they represent to
cede so much sovereignty to a unified  finance ministry  would
also be a massive political challenge. But it might be Europe’s
best bet at providing certainty and restoring confidence.  Such a euro-zone debt swap isn’t as expensive as it might
seem. The euro area’s combined government debt, including the
cost of bailing out banks, would amount to roughly 90 percent of
its total annual economic output. This is in line with the U.S.
debt level and a bit more than Germany’s, which stands at about
80 percent of GDP.  In return for backing the finance ministry, Germany and
 France , the union’s core members, would get much more power to
enforce debt and deficit limits. Individual governments would
have no authority to issue euro bonds to finance excess
deficits, and financially strapped governments such as  Greece 
would have a hard time borrowing on their own.  The position of individual governments would be similar to
that of American states, which must operate under self-imposed
balanced-budget rules to maintain access to credit markets. To
ease the pain of the fiscal straitjackets, a European finance
ministry would have to help support countries’ social safety
nets in difficult times, just as the U.S. government does by
aiding the states with  unemployment insurance  and stimulus
spending.  All too often, the political will to address financial
crises comes too late -- after markets have done their damage.
The unfolding damage is painfully visible; let us hope that the
political will becomes equally manifest in the meeting rooms of
Brussels.  Read more Bloomberg View  editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 