-- 
Euro Will Find No ‘Panacea’ From Greek Summit Outcome: Analysts’ Comments

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-07-21T09:39:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/euro-will-find-no-panacea-from-greek-summit-outcome-analysts-comments.html
Analysts comment in research reports
on the likely market response to a summit of European leaders
and officials convened to stamp out contagion from  Greece ’s debt
crisis. The euro fell 0.4 percent to $1.4158 as of 10:39 a.m. in
London after rising as much as 0.6 percent to $1.4295.  Kit Juckes, London-based head of foreign-exchange research at
Societe Generale SA.  “The bottom line, though, is that the chances of a deal
are higher and that is why the euro has rallied overnight.
Whether they can deliver a deal credible enough to limit the
skepticism, which will naturally return, is less certain. The
market will be keen to be cynical and skeptical, but there’s
enough here to keep the euro alive for a while longer.”  Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt .  “In view of the seriousness of the situation we assume
that the European Union politicians will come to an agreement in
the end and that details about a further aid package for Greece
will be published today.  ‘‘The event risk remains high, which is reflected, in
particular, in euro-dollar risk reversals which continue to
trade close to annual lows. Should a result regarding aid for
Greece be reached today the euro might continue its recovery, at
least short term.’’  Adrian Schmidt, a currency strategist at Lloyds Banking Group
Plc in London.  ‘‘The summit outcome today is likely to bring a mix of
announcements and commitments that should see some additional
plan for Greece along with a broadening of scope for the
European Financial Stability Facility that may include allowing
the purchase of bonds on the secondary market.  ‘‘Almost regardless, though, whatever is announced today
will not be the panacea for all of the issues facing  Europe , but
sufficient commitment to establish a viable systemic framework
of support should be enough to extend the risk-on theme.’’  Khrishnamoorthy Sooben, a fixed-income strategist at  Barclays
Capital  in London.  ‘‘The meeting may need to give a credible signal that there
is a strong willingness to come up (relatively quickly) with
more structural measures to prevent such crises in the future.
We believe that any discussions around a consolidated EU fiscal
framework and/or around the scope for euro-bond issuance could
provide such a signal, potentially setting the stage for a more
sustained relief rally.  ‘‘Absent this, any improvement in sentiment and tightening
in spreads will likely drive profit taking and encourage only
tactical positioning on spread moves, thereby maintaining a
highly volatile environment.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  