-- 
EU May Accept Greek Default as Crisis Fight Intensifies

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-07-22T10:25:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/euro-area-leaders-may-accept-greek-default.html
Euro-area leaders redoubled efforts
to end the 21-month sovereign bond crisis as they erected a
firewall around  Spain  and Italy and risked temporary default to
lighten Greece’s debt burden.  After eight hours of talks in Brussels, leaders announced
159 billion euros ($229 billion) of new aid for Greece late
yesterday and cajoled bondholders into footing part of the bill.
They also empowered their 440-billion euro rescue fund to buy
debt across stressed euro nations after a market rout last week
sparked concern the crisis was spreading. The fund can also aid
troubled banks and offer credit-lines to repel speculators.  Greek, Spanish and Italian bonds rose after officials drew
concessions from Germany, the  European Central Bank  and
investors for a twin-track strategy to support Greece and ensure
its woes don’t spread. The summit is the latest in a running-
battle to resolve the crisis amid calls this week for tougher
action from U.S. President  Barack Obama  and the  International
Monetary Fund .  “These measures are welcome because they create the best
possible conditions for Greece and other peripheral countries to
put their houses in order and hence limit the risk of
contagion,” said  Marco Valli , chief euro-area economist at
UniCredit SpA in Milan. “Still, the market will continue to
price some probability that troubled countries will not be up to
the challenge.”  Bond Rebound  The yield on Greece’s two-year government note, which rose
above 40 percent yesterday, has since plunged more than 1,300
basis points and was at 26.63 percent at 12:13 p.m. in Brussels.  Italian and Spanish bonds climbed for a fourth day, with
the yields on 10-year debt falling to 5.25 percent and 5.62
percent, respectively. Both exceeded 6 percent last week. The
euro was little changed at $1.4410 after jumping as much as 1.6
percent yesterday.  The Greek financing package will consist of 109 billion
euros from the euro region and the IMF. Financial institutions
will contribute 50 billion euros after agreeing to a series of
bond exchanges and buybacks that will also cut Greece’s debt
load, the leaders’ communiqué said.  The European Commission plans to brief reporters on the
package’s technical details at 1 p.m. in Brussels.  European Monetary Fund  The leaders sought to regain the initiative after market
turmoil intensified amid a spat between ECB President Jean- Claude Trichet and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  over how to
manage the crisis. The outlook was worsened by signs that Greece
was backsliding on axing its  budget deficit  as it struggles to
cut a debt of 143 percent of gross domestic product. A Bank of
America Merrill Lynch poll this week showed investors trimming
their European stock holdings to the lowest in more than a year.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  compared the
transformation of the bailout fund to the creation of a
“European Monetary Fund.”  “This meeting came at a difficult time,” Merkel told
reporters. “I’m satisfied with the outcome because the euro
countries showed today that we are up to the challenge, we can
take action.”  The risk is that the drive will fall prey to the same
internal European Union wrangling that blunted previous drives
to stop the crisis. Bond purchases by the European Financial
Stability Facility, the region’s rescue fund, will need the
“mutual agreement” of member states and the facility may not
be large enough should markets turn on  Italy  and Spain at the
same time. Leaders also refused to increase its size.  Crisis Management  “The EFSF has gone from being a single-barreled gun to a
Gatling gun, but with the same amount of ammo,” Willem Buiter,
chief economist at Citigroup Inc., told Maryam Nemazee  on
Bloomberg Television. “It needs to be increased in size
urgently.”  Sarkozy and other leaders also stressed that the Greek
package won’t be replicated for other countries.  European officials tried to draw a line under the crisis in
May 2010 when they set up the bailout fund and the ECB agreed to
buy government bonds of debt-laden nations. That didn’t stop
Ireland and  Portugal  needing bailouts when splits over how to
make investors participate in financial rescues prompted a new
wave of bond market selling later in the year.  The pact still doesn’t “make a significant dent” in
 Greece ’s debt and may disappoint investors by failing to boost
the size of the rescue fund, said  Jonathan Loynes , chief
European economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . “We
doubt that this package alone will bring an end to recent
contagion effects and prevent the broader debt crisis from
continuing to deepen over the coming months.”  German Coalition  For now, Merkel and her allies have succeeded in their
drive to make investors co-finance bailouts after voters balked
at the cost of saving spendthrift nations.  “The summit resolutions fulfill the main elements of
German coalition lawmakers’ demands, above all the participation
of the private sector in solving this crisis,” Hans Michelbach, 
a lawmaker in Merkel’s ruling coalition, said in a telephone 
interview. “I see that a majority of coalition lawmakers will 
support Mrs. Merkel in parliament.”  Banks will reduce Greece’s debt by 13.5 billion euros by
exchanging bonds and “potentially much more” through a buyback
program still to be outlined by governments, said the  Institute
of International Finance , a Washington-based group representing
banks.  Investors will have the option to exchange existing Greek
debt into four instruments. Three will be fully collateralized
by AAA-rated zero-coupon securities and have a 30-year maturity,
and the fourth will be for 15 years and partially collateralized
by funds held in an escrow account.  Sovereign Default  Crisis managers are aiming for a 90 percent participation
rate from Greek bondholders.  “With this offer, the global investor community is
stepping forward in recognition of the unique challenges facing
Greece,” said IIF Managing Director  Charles Dallara . The
gathering was also attended by Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive
Officer Josef Ackermann and BNP Paribas SA counterpart Baudouin Prot.  The ECB removed an obstacle to a new bailout after Trichet
softened his opposition to a default which may be declared by
credit rating companies if the debt swap occurs. The ECB had
until now said the euro region’s first sovereign default could
spark a bout of financial turmoil, clashing with Merkel’s
position that a default could be inevitable.  Trichet Solace  Trichet signaled governments will guarantee any defaulted
Greek debt offered as collateral during money market operations.
That may enable Greek banks to keep tapping the ECB for
emergency funds. Officials said the aim would be limit any
credit event to a few days.  “The ECB pushed the argument as far as it could,” said
Laurent Bilke, an economist at Nomura International Plc in
London who used to work at the ECB. “It is  Europe , everything
is a compromise.”  Under the plan, Greece and fellow bailout recipients
Portugal and Ireland will also have the  interest rate  on
emergency loans pared. Maturities will be lengthened to as long
as three decades with a 10-year grace period.  Trichet may gain solace from the bailout fund’s wider remit
which he repeatedly sought since the ECB suspended its own bond
buying program in April amid concern it was doing the work of
governments.  Germany  previously rejected broadening the EFSF,
whose size was beefed up to its original lending target as
recently as last month.  Passing Money  The facility will be able to buy debt directly from
investors so long as creditors agree and the ECB declares
“exceptional financial market circumstances.” EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy  said the purchases could be used to stabilize
markets as the ECB was doing or to help countries retire debt at
a discount.  The fund may also start passing money to countries to
support banks a week after stress tests on 90 financial
institutions put as many as 24 under pressure to show they can
raise capital. Precautionary credit lines would allow it to lend
to nations before markets freeze, mimicking a system introduced
by the IMF for states that start losing investor faith even
though they have relatively sound economies.  Governments will have to ratify the facility’s new powers,
posing a potential obstacle given domestic critics in Germany,
 Finland  and the Netherlands.  Leaders dumped a suggestion to finance Greek aid through a
tax on banks with a French official noting the threat had nudged
banks into agreeing to help in other ways. While they signaled
no shift toward issuing joint bonds, Germany’s Deputy Foreign
Minister Werner Hoyer said in an interview on July 20 that it
may eventually back the concept “if we further develop the
European Union towards a political union.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Brussels at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  