-- 
Euro Leaders Start Crisis Talks as Juncker Says Greek Default Is Possible

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-07-21T12:07:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/euro-leaders-start-talks-as-juncker-says-greek-default-possible.html
European leaders arrived in Brussels
seeking solutions for their 21-month sovereign debt crisis as
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said a Greek
default may be unavoidable.  “‘You can never exclude such a possibility, but everything
should be done in order to avoid such a possibility,” Juncker
told reporters as he entered the summit today.  The second round of crisis talks in a month will follow a
two-pronged approach, combining agreement of a second bailout
for Greece with measures aimed at inoculating Italy and Spain
from contagion. Policy makers have repeatedly failed to beat
back turmoil that this week propelled the yield on Greece’s two-
year bond above 40 percent and prompted U.S. President Barack Obama to express his concern to German Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  Leaders must persuade bondholders to co-fund a second Greek
bailout, convince the  European Central Bank  to accept a
potential default and outline steps that would ward investors
away from targeting nations at the euro area’ core. Officials
are crafting a Greek bond guarantee to make a default more
palatable to the ECB, said two officials who spoke on condition
of anonymity.  “Today could see the next in a series of major initiatives
to combat the corrosive pace at which this crisis is 
spreading,”  Jim Reid , global strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in 
 London , said in a note to clients today. “The European Union 
has a chance of winning a big battle even if the war proves far 
more difficult.”  Greek Default  German  government bonds  pared their decline after Juncker’s
comments, leaving the 10-year yield at 2.799 percent as of 1:45
p.m. in Brussels compared with 2.767 percent yesterday. While
the yield on Greece’s two-year government bond rose above 40
percent for a second day, Spanish and Italian bonds advanced.
The euro fell 0.2 percent to $1.4184.  Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  arrived after
late-night talks in Berlin led to them agreeing a joint position
on Greece. The goal is to “take another important step to
overcome the debt crisis of some countries in the euro zone,”
Merkel told reporters, without commenting on the plan.  New Crisis  Bringing the ECB on aboard would remove a key hurdle to a
new rescue package. That would enable cash-strapped Greek banks
to keep tapping the ECB for emergency funds after President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  warned it would not accept defaulted debt as
collateral and that a “ credit event ” could spur a new global
financial crisis.  Policy makers would try to keep any period of default as
short as possible, said an EU government official, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the talks are confidential. Greek
bonds could be backed up by top-rated securities issued by the
European Financial Stability Facility, an official from a
national central bank said. No decisions have been taken.  “We expect the ECB wants to cooperate on a solution, as
long as it’s done responsibly and that a selective default for a
short duration takes place,” Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de
Jager  told parliament in The Hague today.  Standard & Poor’s  assigns a selective default when it
decides a borrower has defaulted on a specific class of
obligations, yet will likely meet other payments in a timely
manner.  Banker Summit  With Germany and Finland demanding investors contribute,
another option for  Greece  is for bondholders to roll over the
country’s debt. Deutsche Bank Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  and  Charles Dallara  of the Institute of International
Finance are both in Brussels.  The terms of outstanding bailout loans for Greece and
perhaps Portugal and Ireland too may be eased through lower
 interest rates  and longer repayment times. Juncker said today
that a bank tax to fund the Greek rescue was unlikely as was the
issuance of a common euro bond.  Belgian Finance Minister Didier Reynders told Le Soir
newspaper a second Greek rescue would be worth around 110
billion euros ($157 billion).  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis flared up again as Greece
backslid on imposing austerity and as policy makers clashed over
whether bondholders should be put on the hook for future
bailouts. That pushed the yield on Italian and Spanish bonds to
euro-area records, creating the need for another summit.  Credit Lines  Leaders may consider broader steps for stopping the crisis
previously rejected by  Germany , including the use of
precautionary credit lines, a person close to the talks said
yesterday. There is also discussion over allowing the 440-
billion euro rescue to buy bonds directly from investors or
enabling Greece to retire its debt at a discount.  Yesterday’s Berlin talks between Sarkozy and Merkel lasted
seven hours and followed pressure on the German leader to take
charge of Europe’s crisis response. Obama telephoned her two
days ago to discuss Europe’s threat to the world economy and the
 International Monetary Fund  warned that Greece’s woes threaten
to contaminate the rest of the continent even if a so-called
selective default is avoided.  While Merkel said the same day that the crisis can’t be
resolved in “one spectacular step,” Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  said in an interview that the summit could be
a “make-or-break moment” for the euro region.  Some officials are indicating that the only way for the
crisis to be stopped is for Merkel to surrender her opposition
to Europe’s governments issuing a joint bond. While it would
help indebted nations raise money at lower interest rates, she
rejects the move because it would remove pressure on governments
to pursue austerity. It would also risk pushing higher yields on
German bunds.  German Deputy Foreign Minister Werner Hoyer nevertheless
said in an interview late yesterday that it may eventually back
such a concept “if we further develop the European Union
towards a political union.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Brussels at o
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 