-- 
Euro-Area Crisis Threatens East Europe’s Growth, EBRD Says

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-07-22T11:41:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/euro-crisis-endangers-east-europe-growth-development-bank-says.html
East  Europe  and central Asia are at
“serious risk” from the euro-area debt crisis that prompted
leaders of the currency union to craft a new aid package for
Greece, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
said.  The EBRD raised its 2011 economic growth forecast for the
29 countries in which it invests to 4.8 percent from the 4.6
percent predicted in May, while still expecting a slowdown to
4.4 percent next year, according to a report released today.  Failing to solve the sovereign crisis would halt investment
and capital inflows to east Europe, and losses booked by western
banks, owners of more than 70 percent of the region’s lenders,
would prompt them to curb loans, the EBRD said. Euro-area
leaders, after eight hours of talks yesterday, announced 159
billion euros ($229 billion) in new aid for  Greece  and cajoled
bondholders to foot part of the bill.  “We feel a little bit better about those concerns today
than we did yesterday,” said EBRD chief economist Erik Berglof
today in an interview with  Owen Thomas  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Countdown” program. “There will always be a lingering worry,
but what was done yesterday is a brave move.”  Euro-region leaders also empowered their 440-billion euro
rescue fund to buy debt across stressed euro nations after a
market rout last week sparked concern the crisis was spreading.
The fund can also aid troubled banks and offer credit-lines to
repel speculators.  The prediction “assumes a relatively benign external
environment in which risks from the  euro zone  are contained,”
the London-based EBRD said in the e-mailed report. “An
escalation of the euro-zone crisis would pose serious risks to
growth and recovery across the region.”  U.S.,  China  Slowdown  The outlook is also clouded by an economic slowdown in the
U.S. and China, the world’s two largest economies, the bank
said. “Protracted” talks about raising the U.S. debt ceiling
may also hurt the region should global financial markets falter,
the report said.  For eastern Europe, the main threat of contagion is that
banks such as  Unicredit SpA (UCG) ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA, which began to increase loans to businesses and
consumers in the region this year, will rein in that financing,
derailing the recovery, the EBRD said.  Should the euro crisis worsen, “some of these banks could
require financial support and might struggle to keep up their
lending to the local economies,” according to the EBRD.
“Credit to the private sector is still weak and continues to
provide only limited support to economic expansion.”  Rising Lending  Lending to businesses and consumers rose about 10 percent
in the first quarter from a year earlier, compared with 17
percent and 19 percent in  Latin America  and emerging  Asia ,
respectively, according to the report.  The pace of credit growth ranged from 44 percent in  Turkey 
and 18 percent in Russia to 3 percent in  Romania . Credit was
still shrinking in the Baltic states, where banks keep cleaning
up balance sheets and writing off non-performing loans, and it
stagnated in  Hungary  as a result of weak domestic demand and
high bank levies, the EBRD said.  Most at Risk  Southeastern Europe’s recovery remains the weakest, because
it is the region most directly at risk from the financial
instability in the euro region, according to the report.  Almost a third of Bulgaria’s banks and 12 percent of
Romania’s are owned by Greek parents such as Piraeus Bank SA and
Alpha Bank SA. Greek lenders own 15 percent to 25 percent of the
banks in the non-EU states of Macedonia, Serbia and Albania.  The Balkans will grow 2.3 percent this year and 3.6 percent
next year, the EBRD forecast. Croatia is expected to expand the
least among the bank’s 29 recipient countries, at 1.1 percent.  Central Europe  and the Baltic states would be most hit by
soaring funding costs and a euro-region economic slowdown,
because of their “deep integration” with western European
markets, according to the report. This region, which includes
Poland, Hungary and Lithuania, will grow 3.5 percent this year
and 3.4 percent in 2012, the EBRD forecast.  Russia  Least Exposed  While Russia and other countries of the former  Soviet Union 
are the least exposed to risks from the euro region, energy
producers would be hit by stagnation in the euro area, which
would reduce demand for commodities, the EBRD said.  Russia will grow 4.6 percent this year and 4.7 percent in
2012, and Ukraine will expand 5 percent and 4.5 percent, the
bank forecast. Kazakh gross domestic product will increase 7
percent both years, according to the EBRD.  The bank, owned by 61 countries and two intergovernmental
institutions, was created in 1991 to invest in former communist
countries to help them transform their economies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  