-- 
Euro-Region Manufacturing Growth Weakens

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-07-21T08:34:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/euro-zone-manufacturing-growth-weakens.html
European services and manufacturing
growth weakened more than economists forecast to the slowest
pace in almost two years, adding to signs the euro-region
recovery is losing momentum as the debt crisis persists.  A composite index based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in both industries fell to 50.8 in July from 53.3 in
June, London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s the
lowest since August 2009. Economists forecast a drop to 52.6,
the median of 17 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed. A
reading above 50 indicates growth.  European leaders are holding a special meeting in Brussels
today in an effort to contain the region’s fiscal crisis after
eight banks failed stress tests. While economic confidence
dropped in June, booming export demand has helped bolster orders
at some of the region’s largest companies including German
carmaker  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG. (BMW)   “We expect the euro-region recovery to lose momentum over
the coming months,” said  David Kohl , deputy chief economist at
Julius Baer Group in  Frankfurt . “The German boom is mainly
export driven and the global economy is also cooling. The second
half will be significantly weaker overall.”  The euro was little changed after the data, trading at
$1.4252 as of 9:26 a.m. today in  London , and up 0.3 percent on
the day.  The euro-area services indicator fell to 51.4 this month
from 53.7 in June, Markit said in the initial estimate. The
manufacturing gauge decreased to 50.4 from 52.  ‘Difficult Situation’  While European leaders struggled to fight the fiscal crisis
from spreading across the 17-member region, the  European Central
Bank  on July 7 raised borrowing costs a second time this year,
with President  Jean-Claude Trichet  saying it’s up to governments
to restore confidence. The euro region’s expansion probably
weakened in the second quarter, he said.  Adding to signs of slowdown, economic confidence dropped to
the lowest in eight months in June and German investors were the
most pessimistic in 2 1/2 years in July. German executive
confidence probably also declined this month, according to a
Bloomberg survey. The Munich-based Ifo institute will release
the indicator tomorrow.  BMW, based in Munich, expects “certain economies around
the world will go into a more difficult situation,” Marketing
Director  Ian Robertson  said in an interview on July 14. While
 Europe  is “a tale of north and south,” markets including China
and  Brazil  are showing sales growth of 60 percent or more, he
said. In  Greece , which received a bailout last year, the market
“has virtually disappeared,” according to Robertson.  ‘Hard Work’  European officials are exploring ideas from bond buybacks
to a temporary default as they overhaul strategies to alleviate
pressure on Greece and prevent panic from spreading. Italian
Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  said last week that “like with
the Titanic, even the first-class passengers can’t be saved.”  The European Banking Authority said on July 15 that eight
out of the 90 banks had failed the stress tests. Regulators
didn’t include the impact of a Greek default in the assessment
even though credit-default swaps indicate investors see an
almost 90 percent chance of the country restructuring its debt.  “With this week’s summit, the results of the stress tests
will only be secondary.,”  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING
Group in Brussels, told  Owen Thomas  on Bloomberg Television’s
“First Look” on July 18. “Just tough talk is not sufficient
any more. We really need to see a breakthrough, we need to see
how the euro zone is willing to deal” with the Greek issues.  Volkswagen Deliveries  With governments cutting spending and raising taxes to plug
their budget gaps, companies have relied on faster-growing
markets to boost sales.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest
carmaker, said earlier this month that first-half deliveries
exceeded 4 million units for the first time ever.  “We’re also confident we can perform better than the
global automobile market during the second half,” VW sales
chief Christian Klingler said in a statement on July 15. Still,
“plenty of hard work lies ahead.”  Euro-region industrial orders probably rose 0.8 percent in
May from the previous month, according to a Bloomberg survey.
The European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg will
release the figures tomorrow at 11 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  