-- 
Teva Settles Litigation With Novartis Over Generic Version of Lotrel Drug

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-07-21T21:54:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/teva-reports-settlement-of-novartis-suit-based-on-generic-lotrel.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
settled patent litigation related to its generic versions of
 Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Lotrel blood-pressure drug.  Financial terms of the settlement are confidential, Petach
Tikva, Israel-based Teva said today in a regulatory filing. U.S.
District Judge Garrett E. Brown Jr. in Newark,  New Jersey ,
approved the dismissal of the litigation in an order signed
yesterday, according to a court filing.  “Novartis strongly believes in defending the intellectual
property rights and patents of all our products and will
continue to vigorously defend the validity of our patents,” the
Basel, Switzerland-based company said in an e-mailed statement.
“Under the agreement, Teva admits to the validity of the
Novartis patents and that they have been infringed and has
agreed to all claims for patent infringement and damages.”  The Novartis statement didn’t specify the damages. Teva
spokeswoman Denise Bradley declined to comment on the regulatory
filing or the Novartis statement.  Novartis sued Teva in September 2004 to stop the world’s
largest maker of generic drugs from selling a copycat version of
Lotrel, which Novartis said was covered by a patent until
December 2017.  Teva, which denied its product infringed the patent, was
cleared to resume selling its version of Lotrel in June 2007
after U.S. District Judge Harold Ackerman in  Newark  lifted a ban
imposed the month before.  The cases are Novartis Corp. vs. Teva Pharmaceuticals USA
Inc., 04-cv-4473 and 08-cv-0686, U.S. District Court, District
of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  