-- 
Ex-Kaplan Law Dean Gets 1 Year, 1 Day in Prison for Threats

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 
2011-07-22T14:19:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/ex-kaplan-law-dean-sentenced-to-1-year-1-day-for-making-internet-threats.html
A former dean at  Washington Post
Co. (WPO) ’s Kaplan University unit was sentenced to one year and one
day in prison for sending and posting Internet messages
threatening the school and Kaplan Inc. Chief Executive Officer
Andrew Rosen.  Bennie Wilcox was convicted by a federal jury in  Chicago  on
six criminal counts last year. U.S. District Judge Blanche Manning, who sentenced Wilcox yesterday, didn’t impose a fine.
The judge said Wilcox should report to prison on Sept. 16 and
recommended a federal prison camp in  Pensacola , Florida, on the
request of the defense. Wilcox faced a maximum sentence of 18
years in prison.  “My major problem is the fact that upon being confronted
with the actions you took, there was never a genuine acceptance
of responsibility,” Manning told Wilcox.  Wilcox, 45, a former  Kaplan University  dean of law and
legal studies, was indicted in March 2008, a year after he and
two other men filed a federal whistleblower lawsuit against the
university and Chicago-based Kaplan Higher Education Corp. in
Tampa,  Florida , alleging they were receiving federal student
loan proceeds under false pretenses.  “I would just ask that you weigh the mixed bag that is Ben
Wilcox,” Wilcox said to the judge before he was sentenced. He
added that “the last four years have been a very humbling
experience.”  Online School  Kaplan Higher Education and its university are part of New
York-based Kaplan Inc., which operates an online school and
maintains 70 campuses in 20 states, according to its  website .  About 92,000 people are enrolled in the schools, according
to a Washington Post Co. statement announcing its first-quarter
performance on May 6, a 23 percent decline from the same time
last year.  “We are glad that we can finally put these unfortunate
events behind us,” Kaplan said in an e-mailed statement.  The Kaplan schools and other for-profit colleges have come
under increasing federal and state government scrutiny because
of student loan default rates, which are twice as high as those
for students attending public colleges and universities and
three times as high as non-profit private schools.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration announced new
“gainful employment” rules June 2 that it said were intended
to compel for-profit schools to better prepare their students
for jobs that would allow them to repay their loans.  New Regulations  Schools that failed to meet the new requirements three
times over a four-year span would be stripped of their
eligibility to participate in U.S. student loan programs for
three years.  The new regulations take effect on July 1, 2012, meaning
that the earliest a non-compliant school could be rendered
ineligible is in 2015, according to a Department of Education
 statement .  Kaplan hired Wilcox in 2005 and fired him the next year. He
was charged with sending threatening and harassing
communications after the company turned over its evidence to
authorities.  “We respect the court’s decision,” Kaplan said yesterday
in a statement about the sentencing. “A jury convicted Mr.
Wilcox on all six felony counts, and the judicial process has
run its course.  We are glad that we can finally put these
unfortunate events behind us.”  Whistleblower Case  Wilcox denied writing the 2007 e-mail messages and Internet
postings underlying the criminal charges and claimed he’d been
framed for his role in filing the whistleblower case.  “On July 13th, 2007, we will take all of KU down and off
line forever,” said a June 11, 2007, message attributed by
prosecutors to Wilcox and sent under another employee’s name.
Another message sent that day threatened Kaplan’s CEO, Rosen.  Prosecutors presented evidence that they said tied Wilcox
to the messages as well as handwritten and videotaped
confessions he disavowed when testifying at the trial.  Testifying in his own defense, Wilcox said he witnessed
Kaplan executives commit “multiple schemes” to defraud the
U.S. and taxpayers out of $1 billion, with his complicity, by
inflating grades and increasing enrollment numbers.  The fraud allegations against Kaplan are untrue and the
company “vigorously” denies them, Kaplan spokesman Ron Iori
said in a telephone interview before the Dec. 10 verdict.  Web Postings  “Some other judge, some other jury will address whether
the allegations against Kaplan University are true,” Assistant
U.S. Attorney Joel Hammerman said in his closing arguments on
Dec. 9. “You have the evidence to show that Mr. Wilcox’s
confessions were true.”  Wilcox recanted those confessions, testifying that he made
them in an attempt to shield his wife, whom he said he thought
might have written the e-mails and Web postings after being
traumatized by an alleged sexual assault by another Kaplan
executive.  “He had every reason to believe that his wife may have
been capable of having done it,” defense lawyer Beau Brindley
told jurors then. “Ben Wilcox sincerely believes that Kaplan is
responsible. Ben Wilcox didn’t do it himself.”  The case is U.S. v. Wilcox, 08cr256, U.S. District Court,
Northern Division of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew M. Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in Chicago at 
 bchappatta@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 