-- 
Ex-Lehman Executive Jack Asks for Pretrial Diversion in Connecticut Court

-- B y   J o h n   D i l l o n   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-07-21T18:54:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/ex-lehman-executive-jack-asks-for-pretrial-diversion-in-connecticut-court.html
Ex- Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) 
managing director Bradley H. Jack, charged with forging
prescriptions, applied for a pretrial diversion program.  Jack, 52, of Westport,  Connecticut , made the request for
so-called accelerated rehabilitation today in Bridgeport,
Connecticut, before Superior Court Judge Earl B. Richards III.
If he’s accepted and completes the program successfully, he
won’t have to admit guilt and will have no criminal record, said
his lawyer,  Robert G. Golger .  The former executive is to return to court Aug. 18. Golger
declined to comment on details of the case.  Accelerated pretrial rehabilitation is available to people
charged with less-serious crimes that might result in prison
time, according to the Connecticut  Judicial Branch . Not eligible
are those charged with more serious felonies, those with prior
convictions and those who have previously used diversion
programs.  “They could merely continue the matter for a period of
time, and if there are no further incidents, no similar
incidents, then the charges are dismissed,” Golger said in a
telephone interview after the court session.  Jack was arrested on June 24 after he allegedly tried to
pass forged prescriptions for 12 pills of the painkiller
 Oxycontin  and nine of  Ritalin , a drug used to treat attention
deficit disorder, according to Fairfield, Connecticut, police.  Two Charges  He is charged with second-degree forgery and attempting to
obtain a controlled substance through forgery or alteration of a
prescription or a written order. The forgery charge, the more
serious, is punishable by as much as five years in prison and a
$5,000 fine. Jack didn’t enter a plea today.  Jack joined New York-based Lehman in 1984 and ran
investment banking from 1996 to 2002, when he became co-chief
operating officer with Joseph Gregory. In 2004, he was named to
the office of the chairman with the responsibility of overseeing
all of the firm’s  investment banking  relationships.  He decided to retire from New York-based Lehman to pursue
work in the nonprofit sector and spend time with his family,
Richard Fuld, Lehman’s chief executive officer at the time, said
in June 2005.  The company went bankrupt in September 2008. It filed a
bankruptcy plan last month incorporating a settlement with
creditors holding $100 billion in claims. Lehman intends to exit
bankruptcy in the first quarter of 2012 and distribute
$65 billion to creditors.  The case is Connecticut vs. Jack,  F02B-CR11-0258280-S ,
Connecticut Superior Court, Fairfield County (Bridgeport).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Dillon  in Bridgeport, Connecticut, at  jdillon@snet.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York 
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 