-- 
Express Scripts, Medco Bankers May Receive $120 Million

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   W o l l m a n
-- 
2011-07-21T19:46:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/express-scripts-medco-bankers-may-reap-120-million-in-m-a-advisory-fees.html
Investment banks working with
 Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  and  Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  will glean
an estimated $120 million in combined fees for advising on the
second-biggest U.S. acquisition of 2011.  Express Scripts advisers  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  may earn as much as $55 million if the deal goes
through, while Medco’s main bankers  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  may get $65 million, according to estimates by Lam
Nguyen, vice president at New York-based research firm Freeman &
Co. This doesn’t include any fees that might be earned by
arranging financing for the deal, Nguyen said.  Express Scripts said today it agreed to buy Medco Health
for $29.1 billion to become the largest pharmacy-benefits
manager in the U.S. Buying Medco gives St. Louis-based Express
Scripts the scale to become dominant among companies that manage
prescription drug benefits for corporate and government clients.  Medco, based in  Franklin Lakes , New Jersey, also said today
it lost an $11 billion contract with insurer UnitedHealth Group
Inc. that accounted for 17 percent of its business. The loss
drops Medco to No. 3 in the industry, trailing Express Scripts
and CVS Caremark Corp.  JPMorgan is leading banks on mergers & acquisitions advice
this year, with $329.9 billion in deals, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Including the Medco takeover, the New
York-based bank has had a role in the three biggest deals of
2011 so far, the data show. It was an adviser to AT&T Inc. on
its proposed $39 billion purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc. and
worked with Duke Energy Corp. on its acquisition of Progress
Energy Inc.  Surpassing CVS Deal  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley, the second-and
third-ranked advisers, respectively, weren’t among the banks
listed on the Medco transaction. Morgan Stanley was the top deal
adviser in 2010, followed by Goldman and JPMorgan.  Express Scripts  received legal counsel from Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP. Medco’s legal adviser was Sullivan &
Cromwell LLP and regulatory counsel was Dechert LLP.  The Medco takeover, once completed, will surpass the $21.7
billion agreement that formed CVS Caremark in 2007 as the
largest in the industry in a decade. CVS won the deal after the
Federal Trade Commission began an inquiry into possible anti-
competitive aspects of a rival bid by Express Scripts.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Elizabeth Wollman at 
 ewollman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  