-- 
Intensive Antitrust Review Likely for Express Scripts’s Medco Takeover

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-07-22T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/express-scripts-s-bid-for-medco-will-get-close-scrutiny-from-regulators.html
Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) ’s bid for  Medco
Health Solutions Inc.  may face extended antitrust review by the
 U.S. Federal Trade Commission , where scrutiny of prescription-
drug benefits managers has a decade-long history.  The FTC will have to decide whether CVS Caremark Corp.,
UnitedHealth Group Inc., and regional and niche companies can
offer stiff enough competition to the combined company to keep
prices low, said Bob Leibenluft, who headed the FTC’s health
division from 1996 to 1998. The process will take about six
months, according to  Robert Maness , a vice president of Charles
River Associates, an economic and antitrust consultant.  Express Script’s $29.1 billion purchase of  Franklin Lakes ,
New Jersey-based Medco would create the biggest pharmacy-
benefits management company.  The agency’s attitude toward pharmacy benefit managers,
created in part to help rein in health-care costs, is evolving,
Joseph Krauss, a former FTC official who is now a Washington-
based partner at  Hogan Lovells , said in an interview yesterday.
That can be seen in its handling of the industry’s last big
merger, the acquisition of Caremark Rx Inc. by CVS Corp. in
2007, he said.  Concerns about rising prices for drugs in 2007 led the
agency to help scuttle a hostile bid by Express Scripts,
allowing CVS’s $21.7 billion offer to prevail.  CVS Caremark Investigation  Now, the FTC is investigating CVS Caremark, looking into
allegations by retail pharmacist and union groups that the
merged company is overcharging customers, selling private
customer data and favoring higher-priced drugs to collect
manufacturer rebates.  Pressure for thorough reviews of health-care mergers is
also intensifying as President  Barack Obama  and lawmakers look
for ways to reduce health-care expenses, Krauss said.  Express Scripts ’s offer for Medco is likely to face “close
scrutiny,” he said in an interview.  “The FTC always has been concerned” with the industry,
Krauss said.  Cecelia Prewett, a FTC spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Buying Medco would give St. Louis-based Express Scripts
the scale to become dominant among companies that manage
prescription drug benefits for corporate and government clients.  Medco also said yesterday it lost an $11 billion contract
with insurer UnitedHealth Group -- a client as well as a
competitor -- that accounted for 17 percent of its business. The
loss drops Medco to No. 3 in the industry, trailing Express
Scripts and CVS Caremark.  Largest in Decade  The Medco takeover would be the largest in pharmacy
services in at least a decade.  Under the agreement between the two companies, no
termination fees will be paid if the deal doesn’t get U.S.
regulatory clearance.  George Paz, Express Scripts chief executive officer, said
on a conference call with analysts yesterday that the companies
wouldn’t have combined without confidence of approval by the
FTC.  “We believe we will work our way successfully through the
regulatory approval process,” he said.  Express Scripts will argue to regulators that the deal
won’t crimp competition because Medco mostly handles national
accounts while Express Scripts focuses more on small and local
businesses, according to three people familiar with the
agreement who declined to be identified because the negotiations
were private. The company will also contend that UnitedHealth
will be a strong No. 3, the person said.  This view may find some traction at the FTC, said
 Leibenluft .  ‘Plausible Argument’  “These sound like plausible arguments if borne out by
evidence,” he said in an e-mail. “The FTC will weigh heavily
what PBM customers say in response.”  The FTC is likely to look at whether the market should be
defined narrowly by companies such as Express Scripts and Medco,
which have national reach, or more broadly, including regional
companies and pharmacy managers owned by health plans, he said.  A company that combines Medco and Express Scripts would
control about 30 percent of the market by 2013, said Helene Wolk, an analyst at  Sanford Bernstein  in  New York .  Another focus may be how Express Scripts and Medco could
use their dominant presence in the mail-order pharmacy market in
an anticompetitive way, Maness said.  The deal is likely to increase prices, said  David Balto , a
Washington-based attorney who has represented independent
pharmacists in litigation against CVS Caremark.  ‘Wrong Prescription’  “Creating a PBM monopoly is exactly the wrong
prescription” for lowering health-care bills, he said in an
interview.  The FTC’s examination of CVS Caremark has sensitized the
agency to the perils of shrinking competition, Balto said.  In 2009, the FTC started an investigation into business
practices related to the merger, and more than 24 states are
also probing the company.  CVS has said it’s cooperating with the investigations.  The FTC also reviewed the industry in the mid-1990s. In a
1995 speech, then FTC Commissioner  Christine Varney   said  she was
“concerned” about drug companies buying pharmacy benefits
manager.  Still, at the time, Varney, who will step down as head of
the  Justice Department ’s Antitrust Division on Aug. 5, said
pharmacies’ forming joint  ventures with benefit managers may
have “significant pro-competitive benefits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  