-- 
Express Scripts to Buy Medco in $29.1 Billion Deal to Gain Benefits Scale

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-07-21T20:31:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/express-scripts-agrees-to-purchase-medco-health-solutions-for-29-billion.html
Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  agreed to buy
 Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  for $29.1 billion in the largest
deal in at least a decade among U.S. companies that manage
prescription-drug benefits.  The $71.36-a-share offer in cash and stock is 28 percent
more than Medco’s $55.78 closing price yesterday. Investors in
the  Franklin Lakes , New Jersey-based company will get $28.80 in
cash and 0.81 of an Express Scripts share for each Medco share
they own at the closing, the companies said in a statement.  Buying Medco gives St. Louis-based Express Scripts the
scale to become dominant among companies that handle drug
benefits for corporate and government clients. Medco also said
today it lost an $11 billion contract with insurer  UnitedHealth
Group Inc. (UNH)  that accounted for 17 percent of its business. The
loss drops Medco to No. 3 in the industry, trailing Express
Scripts and CVS CareMark Corp.  “Wow, I didn’t see this coming,” said Art Henderson, an
analyst at Jefferies & Co. in Nashville,  Tennessee , in an e-mail
today. “There are unbelievable synergies here, but I am sure
this will go through a lengthy” review by U.S. regulators.  The accord came together quickly, with talks starting
several weeks ago, according to three people familiar with the
agreement who declined to be identified because the negotiations
were private. Previous discussions about a potential merger
helped accelerate the deal, the people said.  Deal Negotiations  Medco executives and advisers contacted Express Scripts to
let them know they were open to a sale because of their concerns
about contracts Medco had lost in the last year, and they feared
 CVS-Caremark Corp. (CVS)  might sell its pharmacy unit to Express
Scripts, the people said.  The Medco takeover, once completed, will surpass the $21.7
billion agreement that formed CVS Caremark in 2007 as the
largest in the industry in a decade. CVS won the deal after the
Federal Trade Commission began an inquiry into possible anti-
competitive aspects of a rival bid by Express Scripts.  The agreement announced today with Medco will get “a very,
very close look” by regulators before it’s closed, said Bob Leibenluft, who led the FTC’s health unit from 1996 to 1998 and
is now a partner at Hogan Lovells LLP, a Washington law firm.  Medco surged $8.05, or 14 percent, to $63.83 at 4 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Express Scripts
increased $2.82, or 5.4 percent, to $55.36. CVS gained 87 cents,
or 2.4 percent, to $37.82.  The overall final value of the deal will depend on the
price of Express Scripts at the closing, the companies said.  Paz Sees Approval  Chief Executive Officer George Paz of Express Scripts said
on a conference call with analysts that the companies wouldn’t
have combined “unless we thought it would be approved” by the
FTC. “We believe we will work our way successfully through the
regulatory approval process,” he said.  The pitch to regulators will be that Medco is mostly
national accounts and Express is more local and small
businesses, and that UnitedHealth is going to be a strong No. 3,
the person familiar said.  Under the agreement between the two companies, no
termination fees will be paid if the deal doesn’t get U.S.
regulatory clearance. The FTC will review whether pharmacy
benefit managers owned by insurers, as well as regional and
niche companies, can provide enough competition to keep prices
low, the former FTC official Leibenluft said.  FTC Scrutiny  “It will be challenging to get this past the FTC,”
 Sanford Bernstein ’s Wolk said. “But with the growth of
UnitedHealth,” an insurer with its own pharmacy services unit,
“we will be back to having three dominant players.”  Pharmacy benefit managers negotiate drug prices for
employer and government insurance plans and manage worker
claims. A company that combines Medco and Express Scripts would
control about 30 percent of the market by 2013, said Helene Wolk, an analyst at Sanford Bernstein in New York.  CVS CareMark, based in Woonsocket,  Rhode Island , will
control “in the low 20s” of the market, while UnitedHealth’s
unit will grow to the “low teens,” she said.  Express Scripts and Medco historically have had different
cultures, Wolk said. Medco is more strategic and takes a long-
term approach to business while  Express Scripts  tends to have a
short-term, financially driven vision, she said.  Contract Losses  Medco, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer David Snow, has lost $3.5 billion in contracts since March. The share
have declined 13 percent since May 26, the day before the
company announced loss of a $3 billion contract covering 9.8
million mail-order prescriptions. In March, the company failed
to renew a $500 million contract with the California Public
Employees Retirement System.  David Larsen, an analyst at Leerink Swann & Co. in  Boston ,
estimated in a note today that Express Scripts is paying 9.1
times Medco’s 2012 estimated earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, excluding the UnitedHealth
contract and potential cost savings.  About $1 billion in cost savings has been identified to
date and the deal is expected to be “slightly accretive in the
first year after the deal close and moderately accretive once
fully integrated,” Larsen said in the note. CVS Corp. paid 12.2
times Ebitda for Caremark Rx Inc. in 2007.  ‘Wildest Speculation’  “People in their wildest speculation thought that, maybe
in 2013, after Medco lost UnitedHealth, it could merge with
Express Scripts, but frankly no one put a lot of stock in it,”
Bernstein’s Wolk said.  Credit Suisse AG and Citigroup Inc. provided financial
advice to Express Scripts, while Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &
Flom, LLP gave legal counsel. Medco’s co-lead financial advisers
were JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Lazard, with Sullivan & Cromwell
LLP as legal adviser and Dechert LLP as regulatory counsel.  The deal for Medco would be the second-largest this year in
the U.S., after AT&T Inc.’s $39 billion planned acquisition of
T-Mobile USA Inc. The Wall Street Journal reported the
transaction earlier today.  Medco and Express Scripts also reported second-quarter
earnings. Express Scripts earned 71 cents a share, excluding
some items, matching the average analyst estimate compiled by
Bloomberg. The company reaffirmed its forecast for this year of
$3.15 to $3.25 a share. Analysts are predicting $3.19, the
average of 25 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Medco posted second-quarter profit excluding some costs of
96 cents a share, beating the average analyst estimate of 94
cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  