-- 
Express Scripts to Buy Medco for $29B: WSJ

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m   a n d   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-07-21T09:32:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/express-scripts-poised-to-announce-29-billion-medco-purchase-wsj-reports.html
Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  plans to buy
 Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  for about $29 billion to become the
largest pharmacy-benefits manager in the U.S., the Wall Street
Journal reported.  The $71.36 offer in cash and stock is 28 percent more than
Medco’s closing price of $55.78 yesterday, the Journal said,
citing people familiar with the deal. The transaction may be
announced as soon as today, according to the newspaper.  The takeover would be the largest in pharmacy services in
at least a decade, surpassing the $21.7 billion deal that formed
CVS Caremark Corp. in 2007. Buying larger Medco, led by Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer David Snow, would give Express
Scripts the scale to dominate the market for contracts to manage
drug benefits for corporate and government clients.  Brian Henry, a spokesman for St. Louis-based Express
Scripts, declined to comment on the report. Ann Smith, a
spokeswoman for Medco, didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment.  The companies negotiate drug prices for corporate and
government insurance plans and manage employee pharmacy claims.
 Franklin Lakes , New Jersey-based Medco is the largest by
revenue, followed by Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based CVS Caremark
and Express Scripts, run by Chairman and CEO George Paz.  Medco has lost $3.5 billion in contracts since March. The
company’s $11 billion contract with  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) ,
representing about 17 percent of its business, expires after
2012.  Pharmacy Deals  Express Scripts rose 69 cents to $52.54 yesterday on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. Medco advanced $1.25 to $55.78 on the New
York Stock Exchange.  Medco shares have declined 13 percent since May 26, the day
before the company announced loss of a $3 billion contract
covering 9.8 million mail-order prescriptions. Medco in March
lost the renewal of a $500 million contract with the California
Public Employees Retirement System.  Competition intensified among pharmacy-benefits managers
after Express Scripts moved forward with integrating
Indianapolis-based  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) ’s pharmacy-benefits unit with
25 million members. CVS, in the past year, grabbed a contract
with Capital Blue Cross of  Pennsylvania  from Express Scripts and
the federal workers plan from Medco.  The number of potential targets dwindled after Hartford,
Connecticut-based Aetna Inc. gave a 12-year, $9.5 billion
contract to CVS last July and UnitedHealth began investing in
its pharmacy benefits unit.  The deal for Medco would also be the second-largest this
year, after AT&T Inc.’s $39 billion planned acquisition of T-
Mobile USA Inc. The pharmacy-benefits manager is scheduled to
report results today.   To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  