-- 
Exxon Seeking Shale Acquisitions as Texas Wells Pump Profits

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-07-21T20:06:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/exxon-mobil-seeks-more-shale-gas-acquisitions-as-texas-wells-pump-profits.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the largest U.S.
natural-gas producer since last year’s purchase of XTO Energy
Inc., is evaluating more acquisitions with an eye toward
expanding its gas holdings.  Exxon is assessing targets in more than a dozen gas-rich
shale-rock formations worldwide, Jack Williams, president of the
Irving, Texas-based company’s XTO unit, said yesterday in an
interview. The company has spent almost $3 billion to amass
shale leases in Texas, Pennsylvania,  Arkansas  and  Louisiana 
since closing the $34.9 billion purchase of XTO in June 2010.  The company’s desire for additional gas comes amid a series
of multibillion-dollar shale transactions. BHP Billiton Ltd.
agreed last week to pay about $12.1 billion for Petrohawk Energy
Corp. to expand its presence in U.S. shale. Since June 1,
companies including Exxon, Marathon Oil Corp. and  Malaysia ’s
Petroliam Nasional Bhd have announced at least $7 billion worth
of North American shale-gas deals.  Exxon is also expanding its international shale-gas reach,
starting hydraulic fracturing on formations in  Poland  this year
and last week agreeing with  China  Petrochemical Corp. to jointly
assess the resource’s potential in China.  Williams said he favors so-called bolt-on transactions that
include gas fields adjacent to existing Exxon assets. Three
years after Exxon abandoned the Barnett shale in north Texas
because of lagging returns, XTO-operated wells in the region are
among the most profitable in the company’s portfolio, even after
a 67 percent slide in U.S. gas prices since 2008, he said.  Good Returns  “The economic returns are very good,” Williams said
during the interview in XTO’s offices in a 90-year-old bank
building in  Fort Worth ,  Texas . “We’re running economics on
every individual well. We’re making sure each well makes
economic sense before we drill it. We’re not drilling anything
that’s losing money.”  Exxon has purchased shale fields that hold more than 10
trillion cubic feet of gas since the XTO transaction, the
company’s biggest purchase in more than a decade, Williams said.
Ten trillion cubic feet of gas is enough to supply U.S.
household demand for two years, based on Bloomberg calculations.  Exxon has risen 45 percent since the XTO deal closed on
June 28, 2010, outperforming the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index and
U.S. crude oil futures, which increased 25 percent and 27
percent, respectively, through today’s close of trading. The
company gained $1.72, or 2.1 percent, to $85.02 at 4 p.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  Exxon’s Cash  With $12.8 billion in cash and cash equivalents, Exxon has
no need for joint-venture partners to help finance its shale
projects, said Williams, whose previous assignments for Exxon
included overseeing Alaskan oil production from 2000 to 2003.  Rival gas producers such as  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  have
signed joint-venture agreements with international energy
companies including Total SA to secure financing amid a gas glut
that has depressed U.S. prices for the fuel. Benchmark gas
futures traded in New York have averaged $4.30 per million
British thermal units this year, 32 percent below the 2006-2010
average.  “I would love to have a higher gas price, but we’re
pleased with the returns we’re seeing,” Williams said. “If you
get a good position in a play and you view that as capable of
providing attractive returns, why would you want to dilute that
by bringing somebody else in?”  Buying Shale  Exxon’s post-XTO shale acquisitions have included the $695
million purchase of Ellora Energy Inc. in July 2010 and the
$1.69 billion transaction for Phillips Resources Inc. and TWP
Inc., a pair of closely held explorers active in the Marcellus
formation in  Pennsylvania  and neighboring states.  XTO plans to drill 40,000 wells worldwide and more than
double gas production during the next decade, Williams said. In
the Barnett shale near  Dallas , the company expects to drill
4,000 more wells in coming years to augment the 1,700 wells it
already operates in the region, he said.  The Barnett shale, where Houston billionaire George P. Mitchell pioneered the hydraulic fracturing and horizontal
drilling techniques in the late 1990s that triggered the shale-
gas boom, probably is less than 50 percent developed, Williams
said. That means it’ll take years of drilling before the region
begins to fade as a gas producer, he said.  XTO has eight rigs drilling in the Barnett formation,
little changed since the merger with Exxon, Williams said.  Return to Barnett  Exxon abandoned the Barnett formation in October 2008 after
returns failed to meet expectations. The company sold its stakes
in gas fields and an 80-mile (129-kilometer) pipeline to closely
held Harding Energy Partners LLC of Dallas, which in turn sold
the assets to Chesapeake. Other big producers in the Barnett
include  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN) ,  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG)  and Quicksilver
Resources Inc.  Exxon’s return to the Barnett region has been profitable,
thanks partly to XTO’s well designs, drilling expertise and
leases in some of the most prolific zones, Williams said. He
declined to provide specific figures for returns on investment
or per-well profits.  “Some of the best returns in the company are here in the
Barnett shale,” Williams said. “We have very good positions in
the heart of the play. Our drilling speed has doubled in the
past five years and our finding-and-development cost is 50
percent lower than it was five years ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in Fort Worth, Texas, at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 