-- 
FDA Reviewing Osteoporosis Drugs for Esophageal Cancer Risk

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-07-21T21:18:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/fda-reviewing-bisphosphonates-for-esophageal-cancer-in-women.html
U.S. regulators are reviewing oral
medicines to combat bone weakening from companies such as Merck
& Co. and  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  for evidence they cause esophageal
cancer and say patients should still take the drugs.  The  Food and Drug Administration  made the comments in an
 announcement  today ahead of a  meeting  of agency advisers Sept.
9, where they will discuss the safety of the osteoporosis
treatments. The agency is reviewing conflicting studies based on
U.K. data that found no increased risk and a doubling in the
risk of the throat cancer.  More than 40 million  people  either have osteoporosis in the
U.S. or are at high risk because of too low bone mass, according
to the  National Institutes of Health . The disease is a
structural deterioration of tissue that leads to fragile bones
and an increased risk for fractures.  “The benefits of oral bisphosphonate drugs in reducing the
risk of serious fractures in people with osteoporosis continue
to outweigh their potential risks,” the FDA said.  Merck shares rose 59 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $36.18, at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Market trading. Roche shares rose
1.8 Swiss francs, or 1.3 percent, to 141.5 francs at the close
of Zurich trading.  Differences in methodologies may account for discrepancies
in findings, the agency said. The gastrointestinal side effects
of bisphosphonates could increase a patient’s likelihood of
undergoing an endoscopy that would lead to more cancer
detection, the agency said.  Bisphosphonate drugs include  Whitehouse Station , New
Jersey-based Merck’s Fosamax and Basel, Switzerland-based
Roche’s Boniva. The FDA urged those taking the treatment to
follow directions carefully, and to take the drug first thing in
the morning with a full glass of water.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 