-- 
Chicago’s Evans Doesn’t Rule Out Interest-Rate Increase After Mid-2012

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-07-21T16:34:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/fed-s-evans-doesn-t-rule-out-interest-rate-rise-after-mid-2012.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said he would back a more explicit
pledge by the central bank to keep  interest rates  low if the
third quarter proves to be weak, and doesn’t rule out the
possibility that near-zero rates will rise after mid-2012.  “It’s obvious the third quarter has to show improvement
and it ought to show a high likelihood of sustained
improvement,” Evans, 53, said today in a meeting with reporters
at the bank. “If we continue to have weakness in the third
quarter, it’s going to be harder to plausibly sustain this idea,
‘The next six months is going to get better.’ We’ve been saying
that for quite some time.”  The regional bank president buttressed his support for
keeping the Fed’s current accommodative policies in place to
spur growth and reduce an unemployment rate stuck around 9
percent or higher for more than two years. The Fed faces
“somewhat less attractive options” than it has in the past and
another round of government bond purchases may not be as
effective as before, said Evans, who added he’d support such an
action if “circumstances called for that.”  Traders in Fed funds futures are placing odds of 23 percent
or more that the benchmark U.S. interest rate, which has been
near zero since December 2008, will rise to 0.5 percent between
July and October of next year. The prospect of an increase
around that time “doesn’t strike me as silly,” said Evans, who
has led the Chicago Fed since September 2007 and votes on the
committee this year.  Policy Accommodation  “The reasons to withdraw policy accommodation seem to me
weak at the moment,” said the bank chief, who is one of only
two regional Fed presidents who vote every other year, along
with Cleveland Fed President  Sandra Pianalto . “So I would not
be surprised if that doesn’t change until an event late in
2012.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 1 percent to
1,339.09 at 11:47 a.m. in  New York , after Evans’s comments were
released. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note,
which moves inversely to price, rose to 2.99 percent from
2.93 percent late yesterday.  Further Stimulus  Members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  are grappling
with whether further stimulus is needed to boost an economy that
grew just 1.9 percent in the first quarter and added 18,000
payroll jobs in June. Evans’ views contrast with those made by
colleagues including Dallas Fed President Richard W. Fisher, who
said last week that the Fed has done enough.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress last week that
the central bank is prepared to take additional steps, including
buying more  government bonds , if the economy appears to be at
risk of stalling. Even so, he said policy makers aren’t yet
ready to embark on a third round of asset purchases.  Data released in the past week show confidence among U.S.
consumers unexpectedly fell this month to the lowest level in
more than two years, while retail sales stagnated in June. The
index of U.S. leading economic indicators also rose at a slower
pace last month, the New York-based Conference Board said today.
In addition, more Americans than forecast filed claims for
 unemployment benefits  last week, Labor Department figures
showed.  Forecasts Lowered  Fed officials, at their most recent meeting in June,
lowered their forecasts for growth and employment this year and
next, while saying inflation excluding food and energy will be
somewhat higher than previously forecast.  A few policy makers indicated the committee might have to
consider new steps if growth remains too slow to
“meaningfully” reduce the unemployment rate, minutes of the
June 21-22 meeting show. Others said rising inflation risks
might require the group “to begin removing policy accommodation
sooner than currently anticipated.”  The Fed could elaborate on its pledge to keep the overnight
lending rate between banks in the range of zero and 0.25 percent
for “an extended period,” by mentioning a specific date that
would be contingent upon future conditions, Evans said.
Officials could also describe “alternative objective measures”
in their statement that would signal when they’d be ready to
alter policy, he said.  Growth Forecast  Evans has cut his growth forecast since January, from 4
percent to a range of 3 percent to 3.25 percent for this year
and 3.5 percent to 3.75 percent in 2012. He described
inflationary pressures as likely to remain “modest” over the
medium term.  Economic growth rates close to his anticipated estimates
are “not going to lead to substantial” improvements in the
unemployment rate, Evans said. “We need something substantially
north of 2.5 percent in order to bring the unemployment rate
down. So 3.5 percent is good, but it’s not a big number. Four to
5 percent is something that would have a more substantial effect
on the labor market.”  “It’s entirely likely those forecasts will be marked
down” even further, the regional chief said.  Evans also said that if the federal debt ceiling isn’t
raised, “it’s hard to imagine that that won’t lead to an
increase in interest rates at some general level,” undermining
the Fed’s efforts.  The U.S. has recovered only 1.8 million of the more than
8.7 million jobs lost since January 2008, according to Labor
Department figures, as companies such as  State Street Corp. (STT)  and
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  still shed workers. The unemployment rate
rose to 9.2 percent in June, the highest this year, from 9.1
percent in May.  Evans has been among the FOMC’s strongest supporters of
monetary stimulus since last year. He represents a five-state
region that includes  Iowa  and most of  Illinois ,  Indiana ,
 Michigan  and  Wisconsin . Iowa has one of the lowest unemployment
rates, at 6 percent as of May, while Michigan has one of the
highest, at 10.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  