-- 
Fiat Boosts Chrysler Stake to Majority

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-07-21T17:44:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/fiat-boosts-chrysler-stake-to-majority.html
  Fiat SpA (F)  took a majority stake in
Chrysler Group LLC when it completed the purchase of a 6 percent
stake from the  U.S. Treasury  and a 1.5 percent holding from
 Canada  that ended taxpayer ownership in the automaker.  Fiat, which paid $625 million for the holdings, increased
its stake in Chrysler to 53.5 percent on a fully diluted basis,
Chrysler said in a U.S. regulatory filing. Fiat also paid $75
million for governments’ right to buy the remaining stake held
by the United Auto Workers union’s retiree health-care trust, of
which $15 million goes to  Canada .  “With today’s closing, the U.S. government has exited its
investment in Chrysler at least six years earlier than
expected,” Timothy Massad, the Treasury Department’s acting
assistant secretary for financial stability, said in a separate
statement. Loans to Chrysler were set to mature in 2017.  Fiat consolidated Chrysler’s results from June 1, a sign of
the rapid integration of the two carmakers since the  Auburn
Hills , Michigan-based manufacturer exited bankruptcy in June
2009. Fiat is scheduled to report its second-quarter earnings
July 26, the first one to include Chrysler results.  Fiat, based in Turin,  Italy , and Chrysler will have a
single management structure soon,  Sergio Marchionne , chief
executive officer of both companies, said last week.  Marchionne, 59, is working on management changes as he
moves to integrate the two companies. He plans to merge the
carmakers to reduce costs and achieve a target of more than 100
billion euros ($140 billion) in combined revenue by 2014. The
executive said in May that the timing of a merger hasn’t been
decided, adding that a combination isn’t likely this year.  ‘Logical Next Step’  “With the business strategies of Fiat and Chrysler
irrevocably linked, we believe a merger is a logical next
step,” Stefan Burgstaller. a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst
wrote in a note to clients July 20.  Fiat, initially granted a 20 percent stake in Chrysler by
the U.S. government, expects to hold 58.5 percent of the third-
biggest U.S. automaker by the end of 2011, after getting 5
percent in return for developing a fuel-efficient car for
Chrysler. The United Auto Workers union’s trust will have the
remaining 41.5 percent of Chrysler at that time.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  