-- 
Jobless Claims in U.S. Rose by 10,000 Last Week to 418,000

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-07-21T12:47:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/first-time-jobless-claims-in-u-s-increase-more-than-estimated-to-418-000.html
More Americans than forecast filed
claims for  unemployment benefits  last week, reflecting the
volatility of applications during the annual auto-plant
retooling period.  Applications for jobless benefits increased 10,000 in the
week ended July 16 to 418,000, Labor Department figures showed
today. Economists forecast 410,000 claims, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The data included
about 1,750 additional job cuts due to the Minnesota government
shutdown, the agency said.  Employers have been reluctant to hire more workers over the
past two months on concern the recovery was slowing and growing
unease over stalled negotiations to extend the federal debt
ceiling and reduce the  budget deficit . Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  last week said recent data showed “continuing
weakness” in the labor market.  “The labor market is still quite fragile,” said  Tom
Porcelli , chief U.S. economist at RBC Capital Markets Corp. in
 New York , who correctly forecast the rise in claims. “The pace
of firings continues to move sideways and it’s obvious there is
not a lot of hiring going on. There is not a lot of demand
right now.”  The four-week moving average of claims, a less-volatile
measure, fell to 421,250, a three-month low, from 424,000.  Shares Rise  Stock-index futures held earlier gains after the report on
better-than-estimated results AT&T Inc. and Morgan Stanley. The
contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in
September climbed 0.6 percent to 1,329.3 at 8:45 a.m. in New
York.  Treasury securities  fell, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year up to 2.97 percent from 2.93 percent late
yesterday.  Estimates for first-time claims ranged from 385,000 to
430,000 in the Bloomberg survey of 46 economists. The Labor
Department initially reported the prior week’s applications at
405,000.  The timing of auto plant shutdowns to retool for the new
model year have been difficult to predict this year, making
adjusting the claims data for these seasonal variations more
challenging, a Labor Department spokesman said as the figures
were released to the press. Supply disruptions caused by the
disaster in  Japan  may have prompted car markers to close
operations earlier than usual that year.  Debt Negotiations  President  Barack Obama  and Congressional Democrats and
Republicans have been racing to reach a debt-ceiling agreement
by Aug. 2 that would avert a U.S. default. The Obama
administration signaled this week it may accept a short-term
increase in the $14.3 trillion debt limit if it is combined with
a major agreement to cut the deficit.  The number of people continuing to collect jobless benefits
fell by 50,000 in the week ended July 9 to 3.7 million. The
continuing claims figure does not include the number of workers
receiving extended benefits under federal programs.  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments decreased by about
133,000 to 3.7 million in the week ended July 2.  The  unemployment rate  among people eligible for benefits
decreased to 2.9 percent in the week ended July 9 from 3
percent, today’s report showed. Forty states and territories
reported an increase in claims, while 13 had a decrease.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  Payroll Slowdown  Job gains have slowed in the past two months, raising
concern about the durability of a labor market recovery.
Payrolls expanded by 18,000 workers last month, the smallest
gain since September, after increasing by 25,000 in May, Labor
Department data showed July 8. The jobless rate climbed to 9.2
percent, the highest this year.  Banks and manufacturers are among companies still cutting
jobs.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the U.S. bank that makes most of
its money from trading, said it will cut about 1,000 jobs after
a plunge in fixed-income revenue that was bigger than analysts
estimated.  “It looks like the environment’s going to be somewhat
slower for the foreseeable future and so we decided it made
sense at this point to cut some level of expenses,” Chief
Financial Officer David A. Viniar told analysts during a
conference call this week.  More Firings  State Street Corp. (STT) , the third-largest custody bank, will
cut an additional 850 jobs over the next 20 months after
reporting earnings that missed analysts’ estimates, the Boston-
based bank said this week. The cuts are on top of 1,400
reductions announced last year and scheduled to be completed by
the end of this year.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the largest networking-equipment maker,
said it plans to eliminate about 6,500 jobs, or 9 percent of its
full-time workforce, to help trim $1 billion in annual costs and
step up profit growth.  The job cuts will come from across the company and aren’t
concentrated in a single unit, said Karen Tillman, a company
spokeswoman, said in an interview this week. She declined to
provide a geographic breakdown of the reduction. The company
said affected workers in the U.S.,  Canada  and other countries it
didn’t name will be notified in early August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  