-- 
Ukraine’s Outlook Raised to Positive by Fitch on Lower Budget Gap

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-07-21T13:59:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/fitch-revises-ukraine-s-outlook-to-positive-affirms-at-b-.html
Fitch Ratings  raised its outlook for
Ukraine’s sovereign credit rating to “positive” from
“stable,” citing government progress in reducing the  budget
deficit .  Fitch reaffirmed the former Soviet republic’s B rating,
five levels below investment grade and on a par with Argentina,
in an e-mailed statement today. The improved outlook indicates
the ratings company is more likely to increase Ukraine’s credit
grade than cut it or leave it unchanged.  “The government has made progress in narrowing the overall
fiscal deficit,” Charles Seville, director of Fitch’s sovereign
team, said in the statement. “The Ukrainian government secured
parliamentary approval in July for an unpopular pension reform,
showing commitment toward addressing medium-term fiscal
challenges and carrying out at least part of the reform agenda
agreed with” the  International Monetary Fund .  Ukraine turned to the IMF for a $15.6 billion bailout last
July, its second in two years, after the economy shrank by
almost 15 percent in 2009 amid the global financial crisis.
Under the accord with the Washington-based lender, the
government agreed to trim this year’s budget deficit, increase
the  retirement age  and raise natural-gas prices for households.  Fiscal consolidation and economic recovery should help
government debt to stabilize at about 30 percent of gross
domestic product at the end of 2011, Seville said. The ratings
company estimates this year’s budget deficit at 4 percent of
GDP, down from 7.9 percent in 2010.  Ukraine’s economy grew 4.4 percent in the first half of the
year, Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  said yesterday. GDP may
expand 4 percent to 5 percent in 2011 and 2012, according to
Fitch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  