-- 
Florida Space Workers Face Few Job Prospects With End of Shuttle Program

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-07-21T20:23:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/florida-space-workers-face-few-job-prospects-with-end-to-shuttle-program.html
Atlantis ended the U.S. space
shuttle’s 30-year 135-mission lifespan with a pre-dawn  landing 
in Cape Canaveral,  Florida , today, bringing with it two sonic
booms and the demise of one of the region’s biggest employers.  About 9,000 people living near the  Kennedy Space Center  who
work for National Aeronautics and Space Administration
contractors will lose their jobs, Denise Beasley, a spokeswoman
for  Brevard Workforce , a county agency that helps space
employees find new positions, said in a telephone interview.  That leaves five graduates of the class of 1975 at
 Astronaut High School  in Titusville, 12 miles (19 kilometers)
from the space center, with few prospects, they said at a
Cracker Barrel restaurant on the eve of Atlantis’s touchdown.  “We’re all 54 years old, and we should be able to relax,
and instead we’re all starting over,” said Tish Lawing. Her
husband works for a company that helps remove shuttle waste and
her father worked in the space center’s launch-control center.
“This is going to be a ghost town.”  Titusville is so steeped in the U.S. space program that its
countywide telephone area code was changed to 321, the last
numbers of a rocket-launch countdown. The city of 43,761 and
neighboring  Melbourne  promote themselves as located on the 72-
mile “Space Coast.”  Falling Prices  Declines in  home prices , already slumping with the national
real-estate collapse, will be “exacerbated” by the shuttle’s
end, Moody’s Investors Service said in a June 27 report.  Titusville-area prices have fallen  47 percent  over the past
five years, more than the U.S.’s 18 percent decline and
Florida’s  45 percent  drop, according to the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency .  Employment in the region is at its lowest since 2000, even
after four consecutive months of statewide job gains, according
to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  That kind of contraction will affect businesses unrelated
to the space program, said Pat Bell, owner of a local in-home
elder-care company.  “I get a trickledown effect from it,” Bell, 61, said in
an interview outside a Titusville  Holiday Inn  where she was
speed walking. She said she was concerned that fired space
employees will start caring for parents themselves.  “It affects everything. It affects housing, it affects
shopping,” Bell said.  Tourist Attraction  The end of the shuttle program also means the  tourism
industry  won’t attract people like Gerald Griffin, 61, who
traveled from Meath, outside of Dublin, Ireland, to watch
Atlantis land.  “It’s sad,” he said outside his hotel yesterday. “A lot
of people fail to appreciate the significance of what has been
achieved.”  Shuttle launches and landings account for about 5 percent
of the region’s $2.8 billion annual tourism economy, said Rob Varley, director of the Space Coast Tourism Office.  He said the growing number of  cruise ships  berthed at Port
Canaveral, future space tourism and a planned $100 million
visitor center dedicated to the shuttle program will provide
more year-around activity.  “We know we are going to see a significant loss in
corporate business,” he said in a telephone interview. “We
think we’ll mitigate most of those losses.”  Private Companies  NASA plans to use private companies to replace some of the
functions of the shuttle program. A launch under that system is
unlikely before 2015, William H. Gerstenmaier, Associate
Administrator for Space Operations, said at a news conference.  Meanwhile, jobs have been found for some shuttle workers at
related companies in the region, including  Embraer SA (EMBR3) , a
Brazilian maker of commuter jetliners,  NASA  Administrator
Charles Bolden said on Bloomberg Television today.  “We have been trying to keep as many of them in the
aerospace business as we can,” he said.  At the Cracker Barrel, Kyra Morgan said her husband was let
go 13 months ago from his job as a mechanic with United Space
Alliance, a group of companies that did shuttle work.  He recently got a job at  Universal Studios  in  Orlando , 40
miles west, allowing him to return from  Georgia , where he had
moved to find work. He will be paid half what he made before,
Morgan said.  Julie Bledsoe said her husband, an iron worker on rocket-
launch pads, found no job after being cut five years ago. He’s
been forced into early retirement, she said, meaning she has to
continue working as a mural painter.  “It’s a hardship,” she said. “I don’t have a choice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in  Cape Canaveral  at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 