-- 
Hungary’s Forint Strengthens for Third Day on EU Summit Optimism

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-07-21T16:30:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/forint-rises-extends-biggest-three-day-gain-in-seven-months.html
The forint strengthened, heading for
its biggest three-day rally in seven months versus the euro,
amid reports European Union officials have arrived at a plan to
recapitalize struggling banks.  Hungary ’s currency added 0.4 percent to 267.92 per euro as
of 6:10 p.m. in Budapest, capping the biggest three-day gain
since Dec. 2. The forint appreciated 1.4 percent against the
Swiss franc to 227.922. The BUX index of stocks in Hungary, the
EU’s most indebted eastern member, advanced 2 percent, its
largest jump since July 13, as oil refiner Mol Nyrt. and lender
OTP Bank Nyrt. rose.  The euro and equities strengthened as Reuters reported a
draft EU document called for an extension of bailout funds to
 Greece  and the possible purchase of bonds to halt yield
increases that have lifted borrowing costs for the most-indebted
countries. Spanish, Greek and Italian 10-year bonds rose after
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President Nicolas
Sarkozy agreed on a joint position to solve Greece’s crisis.  “The EU draft proposals signal an important landmark in
the EU debt crisis negotiations,”  Lena Komileva , a strategist
at Brown Brothers Harriman Ltd. in  London , wrote in a report to
clients today.  The forint was the best performer versus the euro among
more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
followed by a 0.2 percent advance for Poland’s zloty and the
Czech koruna.  Euro-area leaders may accept a temporary Greek default and
ease the terms on bailouts to cash-strapped nations as they
intensify efforts to resolve the 21-month sovereign debt crisis,
officials said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  