-- 
Foxconn International Net Loss Narrows on Margins, Impairments

-- B y   H u g h   C h o w
-- 
2011-07-21T16:55:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/foxconn-international-s-first-half-net-loss-narrows-2-.html
Foxconn International Holdings Ltd. (2038) ,
the phone unit of the world’s biggest contract maker of
electronics, said first-half net loss narrowed “significantly”
on smaller impairment charges and wider gross profit margins.  The loss also shrank from the second half of 2010 as
operating costs declined, the unit of Taiwan billionaire Terry Gou’s Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. said in a  Hong Kong 
exchange  filing  yesterday. The statement is based on
preliminary, unaudited numbers.  “The interim results will continue to show a loss,
although such loss will be significantly less than recorded for
the corresponding period in 2010,” Foxconn said in the filing.
Foxconn didn’t give a number for the first-half loss, and hasn’t
yet announced the date it will publish complete earnings.  Foxconn reported a first-half loss of $142.6 million last
year as prices for phones fell. It will post a “dramatic
improvement” in earnings this year after selling excess
facilities and terminating unprofitable operations, Chief
Executive Officer Samuel Chin said in May.  For all of 2010, Foxconn had a net loss of $218.3 million,
compared with a profit of $38.6 million in 2009, as main
customer  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  failed to keep pace with competitors
including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  HTC Corp. (2498)  in the smartphone market.  Foxconn gained 2.8 percent to close at HK$3.62 in Hong Kong
trading yesterday, before the announcement. The stock has
dropped 33 percent this year, compared with the 4.6 percent
decline in the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Hon Hai companies raised wages for workers at their main
manufacturing site in Shenzhen in southern China after a spate
of employee suicides last year. The group is moving production
to central and western China to mitigate rising labor costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Chow in Hong Kong at 
 hchow12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hugh Chow at 
 hchow12@bloomberg.net  