-- 
Frank Says Cutting Funds to Regulators Is ‘Worst of All Worlds’

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-07-21T15:26:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/frank-says-cutting-funds-to-regulators-is-worst-of-all-worlds-.html
U.S. Representative  Barney Frank 
said Republican efforts to cut funding to agencies implementing
new Wall Street rules under the Dodd-Frank Act are creating the
“worst of all worlds” for regulators.  “This nickel and diming the Securities and Exchange
Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission does grave
harm,” said Frank, co-sponsor of the financial-regulation law
that bears his name, during testimony at a Senate Banking
Committee hearing in  Washington  today.  Frank of Massachusetts, the senior Democrat on the House
Financial Services Committee, was the first witness at a hearing
marking the one-year anniversary of the law signed by President
Barack Obama. Regulators including Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  and CFTC Chairman   Gary Gensler  are also testifying at the hearing conducted by Senate
Banking Committee Chairman Tim Johnson.  House Republicans, who took majority control of the chamber
after Dodd-Frank was passed, have pushed to cut the funding of
the SEC and CFTC, which are required to write hundreds of rules
to implement the law.  While Republicans may support less regulation, it is “the
worst of all worlds” to have underfunded regulators try to
write the rules required by the law, Frank said.  Johnson, a South Dakota Democrat, said his panel will
continue “rigorous oversight” as regulators draft and
implement rules.  “Unfortunately, these reforms have been under attack since
this bill was signed into law,” Johnson said in his opening
statement.  Senator  Richard Shelby  of Alabama, the Banking Committee’s
senior Republican, said there were “numerous areas where
Republicans and Democrats could have easily reached agreement”
during negotiations before Dodd-Frank was enacted.  “Unfortunately, however, the administration decided early
there would be no real compromise,” Shelby said. The law was
passed over nearly unanimous Republican opposition in the House
and Senate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  