-- 
France Sees Little Room for Euro Bond Without Integration

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-07-21T10:09:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/france-says-euro-area-common-bond-unrealistic-without-greater-integration.html
France , the second-biggest of the
euro area’s six AAA-rated countries, sees little room for a
common euro bond without closer integration of Europe’s fiscal
and budgetary regimes, a French official said.  France’s stance on the subject hasn’t changed since
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  set it out in Brussels on Dec. 17, the
person said, declining to be named in line with government
policy. Asked then about the possibility of issuing common bonds
to stop the debt crisis engulfing Greece and Ireland, Sarkozy
said that under the current state of European integration, “it
wouldn’t make sense.”  “It would be like saying a country has the freedom and the
sovereignty to fix its tax rates at the lowest level in  Europe ,
but it will have the capacity to issue and transfer its debt to
a European level,” he said. “When there’s a European economic
government, the harmonization of economic policies and when the
competitive gaps are narrowed, that’s when we can consider it.
But to do it now makes no sense.”  France’s reticence mirrors that of  Germany , which rejects
issuing common debt as a step too far, saying it would remove
pressure on governments with ballooning deficits to pursue
austerity, and also risk pushing up the cost of credit for
taxpayers.  Sarkozy and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  are among
European leaders meeting in Brussels today at a summit convened
to solve  Greece ’s debt crisis and stamp out contagion in
European bond markets. Europe’s 21-month debt crisis has sent
yields on Spanish and Italian 10-year bonds to euro-era records.  Financial Advantage  French and German resistance to a common bond reflects the
financial advantage provided by their relatively deep and liquid
bond markets and their top-notch credit ratings.  With a common bond, the euro area as a whole might pay
around 4.8 percent to borrow for a decade, based on current
markets and debt levels, Jefferies Securities calculates. That
suggests Germany would need to afford a yield of about 2
percentage points higher than today. French 10-year bonds
currently yield 3.39 percent, meaning the country’s borrowing
costs would increase by about 1.4 percentage points.  “German bunds are the benchmark security, the country
clearly benefits from this, so there’s a question of what’s in
it for them,” Jean Pisani-Ferry, an economist at the Bruegel
research group in Brussels, said in an interview. “France has
also invested in developing its market and is one of Europe’s
main issuers. Against that you have to set the question of euro-
zone solidarity.”  ‘Blue Bond’  The Bruegel group has proposed a compromise that would see
countries fold debts of up to 60 percent of gross domestic
product into a joint “blue” bond. That would likely enjoy
relative lower  interest rates  than even low-deficit governments
now pay, in part because of the more liquid market. Any excess
debt would then be sold on a national basis as a “red” bond
with a higher yield.  Pressure is growing on both France and Germany to consider
more radical options as the sovereign debt crisis that began in
Greece infects both Spain and  Italy , risking the survival of the
euro and the solvency of their own banks.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  was cited
in the Financial Times today as saying that euro bonds deserved
“serious consideration.” Euro area leaders need to “get a
grip,” Osborne was quoted as saying. “We see the potential for
a set of economic events that could be as damaging as 2008,” he
said, referring to the crisis that followed the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Political Hurdles  France’s opposition Socialist Party is also shifting toward
supporting common bonds. Both  Francois Hollande  and  Martine Aubry , the leading contenders for the party’s 2012 presidential
nomination, said this week they supported the idea.  Still, political hurdles to the creation on a European
issuer may be too large to overcome for now.  “The idea of a euro bond is a false escape, a detour,”
Philippe Marini, secretary of the French Senate’s finance
committee, said in an interview. “It is the European nation
states that can bring back confidence, not some abstract entity.
There is no miracle solution that will exonerate each government
from the responsibility of returning their own budget to
balance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .
Mark Deen in Paris at   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  