-- 
Barry Minkow Gets Five Years in Prison for Lennar Stock-Fraud Conspiracy

-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 
2011-07-21T15:38:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/fraud-detector-minkow-gets-five-years-in-prison-for-stock-fraud-conspiracy.html
Barry Minkow , a convicted confidence
man who started a fraud-detection firm, was sentenced to five
years in prison for his role in a stock-manipulation scheme.  Minkow, 45, was also ordered today in Miami federal court
to pay $583 million in restitution. U.S. District Judge Patricia Seitz gave Minkow, who pleaded guilty in March to conspiracy to
commit  securities fraud , 60 days to surrender so he can get his
sons settled in school.  Prosecutors said Minkow made false and misleading
statements about Miami homebuilder  Lennar Corp. (LEN) ’s financial
condition to drive down the company’s share price. The U.S. said
Minkow also abused his relationship with federal law enforcement
agents to get non-public information about Lennar and traded on
that information.  “His hubris is what caused this problem,” Minkow’s
attorney, Alvin Entin, said today. “His narcissism is what
caused this problem. He’s not going to make the same mistake a
third time.” Minkow didn’t speak at the hearing except to answer
the “yes, ma’am” to judge’s questions.  At age 16, Minkow began a carpet-cleaning company, ZZZZ
Best Co., in  Southern California . He took it public and the
value eventually exceeded $211 million, according to a 1987 Wall
Street Journal article.  To make his business appear successful, Minkow prepared
fake receipts that fooled auditors and investors. When the
scheme fell apart, he was convicted in 1988 of 57 counts of
fraud and conspiracy and sentenced to 25 years in prison. He
served more than seven years before being released in 1995.  Fraud Discovery  After prison, Minkow founded the Fraud Discovery Institute.
The San Diego-based company, whose mission is to expose
corporate fraud, said it supported itself by trading against
companies where it found executives had misrepresented their
credentials or allegedly committed other types of fraud.  He resigned this year as pastor of the San Diego-based
Community Bible Church, where he began preaching after leaving
prison, according to a letter from the church obtained by
Bloomberg.  “He spent his 20s in jail,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Cristina Perez Soto told the judge. “He spent his 30s uncovering
fraud and becoming a pastor. In 2009, he was what? Forty-two?
And here we are again with a securities case.”  The case is U.S. v. Barry Minkow, 11-cr-20209, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Florida  (Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in  Fort Lauderdale , Florida, at   susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  