-- 
German Stocks Rally on Reports EU Has Agreed on Bank-Recapitalization Plan

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-07-21T15:47:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/german-stocks-gain-for-third-day-after-merkel-sarkozy-agreement-on-greece.html
German stocks rallied for a third
day, led by banks, amid reports that European Union officials
have drafted a plan to recapitalize struggling banks and halt a
surge in bond yields.  Commerzbank, the country’s second-biggest lender, surged
9.6 percent as bank shares in western Europe posted their
biggest rally since January.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  declined
1.2 percent, tracking a slump in European technology stocks.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  advanced 68.78, or 1 percent, to
7,290.14 at the 5:30 p.m. close in  Frankfurt . Even so, the
measure has dropped 3.2 percent since this year’s high on May 2
amid concern that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will worsen.
The broader HDAX rose 0.9 percent today.  Euro-area leaders may accept a temporary Greek default,
officials said. The heads of government meeting in Brussels may
cut the  interest rates  on loans to  Greece , Portugal and Ireland
to about 3.5 percent and double the repayment period to at least
15 years.  The EU’s main rescue fund, the European Financial Stability
Facility, may get the power to buy bonds from investors, helping
countries to recapitalize lenders and offering precautionary
lines of credit to repel speculative attacks.  Earlier, Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said
Greece may be unable to avoid default. Any euro-area agreement
on a second aid package for Greece might include a selective
default on the nation’s debt, though other options would be
preferable.  “There will be a concrete proposal this time,”  Edmund Shing , an equity strategist at Barclays Plc in  London , said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “It is the European public
sector and it is the ECB as well that will be taking the brunt
of this.”  Manufacturing Report  The DAX lost as much as 1.1 percent earlier as a gauge of
German manufacturing slid to 52.1 in July, less than the 54.1
average forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Commerzbank climbed 9.6 percent to 2.75 euros, the biggest
rally since September 2009.  Infineon fell 1.2 percent to 7.12 euros. A gauge of
technology shares in the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slid 0.8 percent
today, the second-largest decline among 19 industry groups on
the benchmark measure for European equities, as Ericsson AB, the
largest maker of wireless networks, reported second-quarter
profit that missed estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  