-- 
Germany May Back Euro Bonds in Future, Deputy Foreign Minister Hoyer Says

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-07-21T14:06:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/germany-may-back-euro-bonds-in-future-deputy-foreign-minister-hoyer-says.html
Germany  may not resist joining
common euro bonds in the euro currency zone “forever” if such
a move is needed to support political and fiscal integration,
Deputy Foreign Minister Werner Hoyer said.  As euro-region leaders meet today to find a way to stop a
debt crisis that is threatening to splinter the monetary union,
Germany’s help is bound by constitutional and European Union
rules blocking euro bonds, Free Democrat Hoyer said in a
telephone interview late yesterday.  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
government is ready to back “creative solutions” to protect
the euro, he said.  “If we further develop the European Union towards a
political union, then the question of liability via euro bonds
is an option,” Hoyer said. While euro bonds are “obviously
not” on the cards at today’s meeting, Germany will demonstrate
how it’s “fully committed” to solving the crisis, he said.  Hoyer in April was among the first European officials to
signal that a Greek debt restructuring “would not be a
disaster,” after a 110 billion-euro ($158 billion) bailout
failed to stop the southern European country’s fiscal crisis.  Hoyer, the government minister responsible for European
affairs, served as deputy foreign minister from 1994 to 1998 in
the last government of Chancellor Helmut Kohl and has held the
post again since 2009 under Merkel.  ‘Common Position’  Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , meeting in
Berlin last night, forged a “common position” to bring to
today’s summit and “listened” to the “arguments” of European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet , Merkel’s press
office said in an e-mailed statement. Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  said this week  Europe  may face a “make-or-
break moment.”  Trichet’s opposition to a Greek default “may not fully
cover the options which we together have,” said Hoyer, whose
comments were made before last night’s Franco-German meeting. He
was not more specific.  Germany is the “biggest beneficiary” in the euro area of
the debt crisis, gaining or saving a total of 20 billion euros
over 18 months by paying lower  interest rates  on sovereign
bonds, Folker Hellmeyer, chief economist at Bremer Landesbank
said on ARD Television today.  ‘Caution’  Hoyer advised “caution” over a proposal to expand the
European Financial Stability Facility to provide precautionary
credit lines to states, citing the risk of “putting into doubt
the economic solidity of a couple of other European countries”
besides  Greece . Unidentified officials in Brussels said that
proposal may be discussed today.  Italian bonds rose today, pushing the yield on the
country’s 10-year debt down 17 basis points to to 5.43 percent.
Spanish 10-year yields fell 15 basis points to 5.83 percent. The
yields on both securities surged to records on July 18.  Merkel can count on her Free Democrat allies to support a
potential summit accord, said Hoyer. The FDP is “solidly pro-
integrationist, pro-European,” he said. “And we’re not going
to change that, definitely not.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  