-- 
German Ifo Business Confidence Probably Fell to Eight-Month Low

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-07-21T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/german-ifo-business-confidence-probably-fell-to-eight-month-low.html
German business confidence probably
declined to the lowest level in eight months in July as the
European debt crisis and weakening global demand damped the
economic outlook.  The Ifo institute’s business climate index, based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, will drop to 113.7 from 114.5 in
June, according to the median forecast of 42 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. That’s the lowest since November. The
institute releases the report at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  European leaders met in Brussels yesterday in the latest
attempt to stem a 21-month debt crisis that is threatening to
engulf Spain and  Italy . While investor sentiment in  Germany ,
 Europe ’s largest economy, dropped more than forecast in July,
the country’s economic outlook remains “favorable” as stronger
domestic demand compensates for a slowdown in export growth, the
Bundesbank said this week.  “A slowdown in growth is somehow overdue,” said  Ralph Solveen , head of economic research at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. “While we’ll see a soft spot in coming months, the
German economy remains on a sound footing.”  Ifo’s gauge of the current situation may decrease to 122.3
this month from 123.3 in June, while an index measuring
executives’ expectations probably eased to 105 from 106.3, the
survey of economists shows.  Emerging Markets  Germany’s jobless rate has fallen to the lowest in two
decades and the Bundesbank forecasts that the economy will
expand 3.1 percent this year and 1.8 percent in 2012. That would
compare with growth of 1.6 percent and 1.8 percent in the euro
area, according to European Commission projections in May.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s biggest carmaker, said July 15 it
expects to continue outperforming the auto market in the second
half of the year as the Wolfsburg, Germany-based company
benefits from growth in emerging markets such as Brazil, Russia,
India and  China .  At the same time, some companies have signaled concern that
austerity measures in euro-area nations and a clouded outlook in
the U.S. risk hurting profit growth.  “While we’re enjoying a lot of success with new models and
seeing many markets moving very strongly, we also see some
potential risk,”  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s Marketing
Director Ian Robertson said July 14. “Certain economies around
the world will go into a more difficult situation.”  German consumer sentiment will rise for the first time in
four months in July, Nuremberg-based market research company GfK
predicted on June 28. “Good general conditions” have become
“more influential than detrimental factors, such as the state
of affairs in  Greece ,” it said.  “The combination of a global economic slowdown and the
ongoing uncertainty about the debt crisis will certainly start
to affect companies’ outlook,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an
economist at ING Group in Brussels. “However, despite all
potential risks, I remain optimistic about the German economy,
not at least due to the strengthening of domestic demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  