-- 
Spanish, Greek, Italian Bonds Rise, Bunds Slump on Loan Extension Report

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-07-21T16:03:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/german-bunds-decline-merkel-sarkozy-find-joint-position-on-greece-rescue.html
Spanish, Greek and Italian 10-year
bonds jumped while bunds slumped after a media report said a
draft document of conclusions from the European Union summit
today calls for an extension of bailout loans for  Greece .  Loans from the European Financial Stability Facility may be
lengthened to 15 years from 7 1/2 years and offered at a rate of
3.5 percent, according to  Reuters . Yields on benchmark German
bunds climbed to the highest in almost two weeks after German
Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
agreed on a joint position to solve Greece’s debt crisis.
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said a so-called
“selective default” is a possibility for Greece.  “The market reaction has been one of an expected sigh of
relief for risk assets and a sell-off in safe havens,” said
 Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument Securities
Ltd. in London. “There are still no details but certainly the
bar has been raised very high in terms of an expectation that an
agreement will be reached.”  Spanish 10-year bonds rose for a third day, lowering yields
25 basis points to 5.73 percent as of 4:59 p.m. in  London . That
reduced the spread, or yield difference, over benchmark German
bunds to 285 basis points. Two-year Spanish note yields were 39
basis points lower at 3.77 percent.  Italian 10-year yields dropped 26 basis points to 5.34
percent, narrowing the yield gap over bunds to 247 basis points.
Yields on equivalent-maturity Irish bonds sank 71 basis points
to 12.35 percent. Greek 10-year yields slumped 85 basis points
to 16.49 percent, after sinking to 16.45 percent, the lowest
since July 5.  ‘Short-Lived’ Rebound  Speculation on what measures European leaders may introduce
to stem the euro-region’s sovereign-debt crisis comes as
officials meet in Brussels in an attempt to find a comprehensive
solution on how to fund a second Greek bailout. Disagreement has
so far centered on whether private holders of the nation’s debt
should be compelled to contribute to the rescue, a measure that
ratings companies have warned would constitute a default.  “The recent rebound in periphery markets may prove short-
lived if the outcome of the meeting falls short of
expectations,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist
at Commerzbank AG in London.  German benchmark 10-year yields increased 11 basis points
to 2.88 percent, after reaching 2.90 percent, the most since
July 8. Yields on two-year German notes rose 12 basis points to
1.42 percent.  In addition to further bailout loans for Greece, the EFSF
may be permitted to intervene in secondary bond markets,
depending upon European Central Bank input, and recapitalize
financial institutions through government loans, Reuters said.  Restructuring ‘Disaster’  ECB Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi told Die
Welt yesterday that governments should bury their plans to
involve private Greek bondholders.  “A restructuring would be a disaster” and “far more
costly for the taxpayer than granting Greece another aid package
with conditions,” Bini Smaghi was quoted as saying.  German Deputy Foreign Minister Werner Hoyer said his nation
may back common euro bonds in the future as legal rules bar such
a move for now.  “If we further develop the European Union towards a
political union, then the question of liability via euro bonds
is an option,” Hoyer said in a telephone interview. While euro
bonds are “obviously not” on the cards at today’s meeting,
 Germany  will demonstrate how it’s “fully committed” to solving
the crisis, he said.  Spanish Auction  German bund futures expiring in September declined for a
third day, dropping 0.9 percent to 127.01. Italian bond futures
expiring in the same month rose 2 percent to 104.08.  Spain  sold 2.62 billion euros of 10- and 15-year bonds at
an auction, the Bank of Spain said, compared with a maximum
target of 2.75 billion euros.  The so-called bid-to-cover ratio for the 10-year securities
declined to 1.9 from 2.13 at a sale in June. The ratio for the
15-year bonds dropped to 2.08 from 2.57 in June.  German  government bonds  have handed investors 1.7 percent
this year, compared with 3.6 percent for U.S. Treasuries,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Greek bonds have
lost 21 percent, while  Portugal ’s declined more than 27 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  