-- 
Goldman, Citigroup Boost CMBS Buffer After AAA Grade Questioned

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-07-21T13:19:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/goldman-sachs-citigroup-increase-cmbs-buffer-after-aaa-grade-questioned.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  overhauled a $1.5 billion commercial mortgage-
bond deal after investors demanded more protection from losses
amid concern that ratings from Standard & Poor’s and Morningstar
Inc. didn’t accurately reflect the risk.  The banks boosted the buffer that protects AAA securities
from loan defaults by increasing the amount of lower-ranked debt
that is first to absorb losses, according to people familiar
with the transaction. The so-called credit enhancement on the
highest-graded debt has been raised to 20 percent from 14.5
percent, which was the least since sales of debt tied to
commercial property loans revived in November 2009.  Buyers are demanding better terms as banks have to unload
as much as $10 billion in real-estate loans they have been
stockpiling for sale as securities amid some signs that the U.S.
economic recovery is stalling. Goldman Sachs and Citigroup also
increased yields, after S&P held a call with investors including
MetLife Inc. and CB Richard Ellis Investors LLC on July 18 to
address concerns that the credit enhancement levels were low.  “It really impairs the credibility rebuilding process to
have something like this happen so early in the cycle,” said
Harris Trifon, a debt analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. “Having to
carve out a new class says volumes about investors’ perception
of the ratings agencies reliability. It shows that investors are
the ultimate arbiters of  credit quality .”  Mark Costiglio, a Citigroup spokesman and  Michael DuVally 
of Goldman Sachs, both in  New York , declined to comment.
Fabienne Alexis, a spokeswoman for S&P, and Nadine Youssef at
Morningstar, didn’t immediately return calls for comment.  Increasing Yield  The banks also increased the yield on the original AAA
slice maturing in about 10 years by 50 basis points to 200 basis
points more than benchmark swap rates, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the transaction is private.  Credit support is the amount of losses securities can
withstand on the underlying loans before principal is impaired.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the safest portion
of commercial mortgage bonds has risen to 222 basis points, or
2.22 percentage points, from 2.09 percentage points at the end
of June, according to a Barclays Plc index. Investors are
demanding higher relative yields after the U.S. unemployment
rate rose unexpectedly to 9.2 percent and as European leaders
seek to contain its debt crisis.  Wall Street  began slicing up commercial-mortgage bonds into
so-called super duper classes in 2005 in response to investor
concerns about declining credit protections. Those securities
are protected from 30 percent in losses on the commercial
mortgages in the pool.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  