-- 
Gold May Gain on U.S., European Debt Concerns, Survey Shows

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-07-21T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/gold-may-gain-on-u-s-european-debt-concerns-survey-shows.html
Gold may extend its climb to a
record as debt concerns in the U.S. and  Europe  spur demand for
the metal as a protection of wealth, a survey found.  Sixteen of 32 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 50 percent, said bullion will rise next week. Nine
predicted lower prices and seven were neutral. Gold for August
delivery was up 0.5 percent for this week at $1,597.50 an ounce
by 11:02 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in  New York . It reached an
all-time high of $1,610.70 on July 19.  Investors boosted holdings of the metal in exchange-traded
products to a record 2,122.6 metric tons this week as European
policy makers met for the second time in a month in a bid to
calm  Greece ’s financial distress and inoculate Spain and Italy
from contagion.  Standard & Poor’s  yesterday reiterated there’s a
50 percent chance of a U.S. ratings cut within three months.  “The primary driver is the debt crisis in the U.S. and the
 euro zone  which is not going to go away anytime soon and poses
the real risk of financial contagion,” said Mark O’Byrne,
executive director of brokerage GoldCore Ltd. in Dublin. “Safe
haven demand is due to concerns about global economic growth and
deepening inflation.”  The attached chart tracks the results of the Bloomberg
survey, with the red bars derived by subtracting bearish
forecasts from bullish estimates. Readings below zero signal
that most respondents expect a decline. The green line shows the
gold price. The data are as of July 15.  The weekly gold survey, which started seven years ago, has
forecast prices accurately in 214 of 372 weeks, or 58 percent of
the time.  This week’s survey results: Bullish: 16 Bearish: 9 Neutral: 7  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  