-- 
Gold May Climb Toward Record Price After Signal on Bond Default by Greece

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-07-21T12:22:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/gold-may-decline-as-european-u-s-leaders-work-to-ease-default-concerns.html
Gold may climb toward a record in
New York on demand for a protection of wealth after European
officials signaled  Greece  may default on  government bonds  as
part of a second bailout.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said he
couldn’t rule out the “possibility” of a so-called selective
default on Greek debt. Germany and  France  will present an
agreement on addressing Greece’s debt crisis at a meeting today.
Holdings of the metal in exchange-traded products rose 0.1
percent to a record 2,122.6 metric tons yesterday, data compiled
by Bloomberg data show.  While the agreement “raises the chances that a solution
will be presented, there is no reason for euphoria,”  Daniel Briesemann , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said in a
report. “Several attempts at finding an agreement have already
failed. Against this backdrop, gold remains in demand among
investors.”  Gold for August delivery rose $2.20, or 0.1 percent, to
$1,599.10 an ounce by 8:01 a.m. on the Comex in  New York . The
metal reached an all-time high $1,610.70 on July 19. Immediate-
delivery gold was little changed at $1,598.40 in London after
reaching a record $1,610.10 two days ago.  Gold is up 13 percent this year, heading for an 11th
straight annual gain, the longest winning streak since at least
1920 in London. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities
gained 2.8 percent in 2011, the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of
24 commodities is up 9.9 percent and Treasuries returned 3.5
percent, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  Investment Demand  “Investment demand is still very strong as there are still
many uncertainties in the global economy,” Dick Poon, precious
metals trading manager at Heraeus Ltd., said by phone from  Hong
Kong . “We see a lot more scrap emerging in the market this
week, which has offset some of the investment demand.”  Euro-area government chiefs will convene today for the
second time in a month as they aim to break a deadlock over a
new Greek rescue. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President Nicolas Sarkozy reached an agreement on Greece after
seven hours of talks in Berlin and details will be released at
today’s summit in Brussels.  Separately, two officials familiar with talks on the rescue
for Greece said governments may provide a guarantee on the
nation’s debt in the event of a default.  Debt Limit  Barack Obama’s administration signaled it may accept a
short-term increase in the U.S. debt limit only if it’s combined
with a major agreement to cut the deficit. President Obama met
with top congressional Democrats as the Aug. 2 deadline for
raising the $14.3 trillion debt limit nears.  “As the U.S. and  Europe  appear to move nearer towards
solving their debt problems, gold may face some selling
pressure,” said Steven Zhu, operations manager at Yinjian
Futures Co. “Until there are clear signs that everything is
good in the world, we favor gold as a safety play.”  Silver for September delivery in New York rose 0.8 percent
to $39.865 an ounce. Palladium for September delivery gained 0.7
percent to $798.95 an ounce. Platinum for October delivery was
up 0.3 percent at $1781.50 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  