-- 
Google Says It Rejected Sun’s $100 Million Java-Android Deal

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-07-22T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/google-rejected-java-license-offer-lawyer-says-in-oracle-case.html
Google Inc. rejected an offer by Sun
Microsystems Inc to pay $100 million in royalties to use Java in
its development of the Android operating system before Sun was
acquired by  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , a Google lawyer said.  Robert Van Nest, Google’s attorney, said yesterday at a
hearing in federal court in  San Francisco  that the proposed
$100 million three-year “all-in” deal in 2006 was for a
technology partnership to jointly build Android, rather than for
just a patent license.  Separately, Oracle won permission yesterday to question
Google Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  in a deposition about
his knowledge of the search-engine company’s alleged
infringement of patents that Oracle got when it acquired Sun.  Oracle, based in  Redwood City ,  California , is seeking as
much as $6.1 billion in damages from Google in a lawsuit that
claims Android software uses technology that infringes Oracle’s
patents. Google denies infringing and asked U.S. District Judge
William Alsup at yesterday’s hearing to throw out Oracle’s
damage estimate.  Alsup said it appeared that Google “has a product out
there that is in direct violation of these patents,” and
pressed Van Nest to explain why the  Mountain View , California-
based company discussed a license with Sun.  “There wasn’t any specific discussion of patents,” Van
Nest said. While a few lines of code in Android are
“identical” to Java, that code probably came from a third
party, he said. “We are investigating that,” Van Nest said.  Programming Language  Android uses a Java programming language that is open to
anyone for free, said Van Nest.  Alsup cited a document to a Google executive from Google’s
Android project leader that said, “‘We conclude that we need to
negotiate a license for Java.”  “Don’t you think a good lawyer will convince a jury that
it’s a license for patents?” Alsup said.  While Oracle’s damages may be in the millions or billions
of dollars, Alsup said it was “crazy” for Oracle to equate its
damages to the entire market value of Android.  Michael Jacobs, Oracle’s attorney, told the judge that
Google adopted “the entire architecture” of Java into Android.  “Our position is that there is no infringement, there is
no willful infringement,” Van Nest said.  Oracle sought to depose Page about negotiations from 2005
to 2010 between Sun and Google over a Java license for Android
and Page’s decision to acquire Android due to its strategic
value, according to today’s court filing.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Donna M. Ryu ruled that Oracle may
depose Page for two hours “soley on topics relevant to the
willfulness of defendant’s alleged patent infringement, and the
value of Android” to Google, according to the order.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  