-- 
Democrats Balk at Potential U.S. Debt-Limit Deal

-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   [ b n : P R S N = 1 6 4 7 9 5 8 2 ]   M i k e   D o r n i n g   [ ]
-- 
2011-07-22T02:46:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/grand-bargain-returns-to-u-s-debt-talks-as-negotiators-open-paths-to-deal.html
Democrats reacted angrily to
reports that the White House is cutting a deal with House
Republicans to boost the U.S. debt ceiling and reduce deficits
by about $3 trillion over 10 years without immediate revenue
increases.  President  Barack Obama ’s team has told congressional
leaders it is pursuing such a deal, according to two officials
familiar with the talks, as the White House and House Speaker
John Boehner of  Ohio  denied one was at hand.  The officials, who described outlines of the plan on
condition of anonymity, said the leaders were told it would cut
spending while calling for a future tax overhaul that could
raise $1 trillion in additional revenue.  Obama met with Democratic leaders from the House and
Senate at the White House for about two hours.  The administration and House Republicans remain divided
over the fate of the cuts for top earners passed during
President  George W. Bush ’s administration and how much revenue
would be raised to trim the long-term federal deficit, said two
Democratic officials familiar with the negotiations.  Obama wants spending cuts to be gradual, with the fullest
effects not felt until 2014 and beyond, to avoid shaking the
still-fragile recovery, the officials said, briefing reporters
on condition of anonymity to discuss the closed-door talks.  While discretionary spending cuts could be immediate,
changes in the  tax code  and entitlement programs would be
worked out over the next year, the officials said.  Aug. 2 Deadline  Little more than a week is left before the Aug. 2 deadline
for raising the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling and averting a
default. Negotiations for a deficit-cutting deal to set the
stage for raising the cap were moving quickly, and some
Democrats said they feared they might be asked to swallow a
plan they couldn’t accept: steep reductions in programs
including Medicare and Social Security, with no promise of
higher tax revenue.  Obama called House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a
California Democrat, last night to inform her that he and
Boehner were close on the framework of a deal, according to a
Democratic official who requested anonymity. The official
didn’t say if the size and timing of potential revenue
increases were part of the discussion.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of  Nevada  confronted
White House Budget Director Jack Lew about such a possible deal
at a closed-door lunch at the Capitol, and Lew said he wasn’t
aware of any agreement, according to Senator Joe Lieberman of
 Connecticut , an independent who caucuses with the Democrats.
Some Democrats believe they are being left out as Obama
bargains with Boehner, Lieberman said.  New Revenue  Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a North
Dakota Democrat, said a major budget deal that doesn’t include
new revenue “obviously” couldn’t pass the Democratic-
controlled Senate.  “We are very volcanic at this moment,” Senator Barbara Mikulski, a Maryland Democrat, said as she left the session
with Lew. She said Democrats don’t want an agreement similar to
last year’s deal between Obama and Republicans that extended
Bush-era tax cuts for all taxpayers, including the wealthy.  The news of a potential deal in the debt-limit dispute was
first reported today by the  New York  Times and was quickly
denied by White House press secretary  Jay Carney . Boehner said
in a Twitter message that reports of a deal were “false.” Lew,
leaving his session with Senate Democrats, said, “There is no
agreement.”  ‘No Progress’  “There is no progress to report,” Carney said at a
briefing in  Washington . He said the administration is
“absolutely confident” an agreement to avert a default can be
reached before Aug. 2, when the Treasury Department says the
U.S. would exhaust its borrowing authority.  Standard & Poor’s  warned there is a 50 percent chance it
will lower the U.S. government’s AAA credit rating by one or
more levels within three months. S&P said today that, even if
Congress raises the debt limit in time to avert a default, it
might lower the U.S. sovereign rating to AA+ with a negative
outlook if it isn’t accompanied by a “credible solution” on
the debt level.  Such a ratings change, which could come as soon as early
August, would “modestly raise” the federal government’s
borrowing costs, S&P said. If the U.S. defaults on some
obligations after Aug. 2, even if it pays bondholders, S&P
forecast short-term  interest rates  would rise by 50 basis
points or 0.50 percentage points and long-term interest rates
by 100 basis points or 1 percentage point.  ‘Remain Flexible’  Even amid the political debate about the debt in
Washington, bond market yields in the U.S. are lower now than
when the government was running a budget surplus a decade ago.
The yield on the benchmark 10-year note declined two basis
points to 3 percent as of 10:46 a.m., Friday, in  Tokyo ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  The rate is below the average of 5.48 percent in 1998
through 2001, the last time the U.S. had a budget surplus,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  More than 40  House Republicans  met today with officials
from Standard & Poor’s, the Investment Company Institute and
JPMorgan Securities who detailed the economic consequences of a
default and encouraged lawmakers to raise the ceiling by Aug. 2.  “We have to remain flexible,” Representative Charlie Dent, a Pennsylvania Republican, said afterward. “Obviously
nobody thinks default is an option. We also want to prevent a
downgrade.”  Meeting Lawmakers  Boehner plans to meet with rank-and-file House Republicans
tomorrow morning to brief them on the status of the talks.
Republicans insist that any debt-ceiling boost be accompanied
by spending cuts and measures to reduce the long-term debt
without raising taxes.  Boehner told reporters he has prepared his membership for
the possibility of a compromise with Democrats to raise the
debt limit, and that he believed a majority of the 240
Republicans are prepared to do so. “We have a responsibility
to act,” he said.  Democrats say more  tax revenue  must be part of any final
compromise.  “The president always talked about balance, that there
had to be some fairness in this, that this can’t be all cuts,”
Reid told reporters at the Capitol. “There has to be a balance,
there has to be some revenue with the cuts. My caucus agrees
with that. I hope the president sticks with that. I’m confident
he will.”  Forced Deal  Lieberman said Democrats “are anxious that the president
is negotiating with Speaker Boehner, and that somehow that an
agreement made there will be forced on the Senate.”  At the same time, a bipartisan group of six senators who
revived hopes this week for a grand bargain haven’t produced
details sought by leaders, making it harder to add their
proposals to any debt-ceiling endgame, said two Democratic
aides familiar with the deliberations.  The so-called “Gang of Six” outlined a $3.7 trillion
deficit-reduction plan and Obama embraced it this week. Some
Republicans have endorsed it or signaled openness to
considering its elements. The group was meeting with Senate
leaders today to determine which of their ideas -- if any --
would offer a way out of the current conflict.  Fallback Plan  Senate leaders have also discussed a fallback plan by Reid
and Republican Leader Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky  to give Obama
$2.4 trillion in borrowing authority. It could be combined with
spending cuts and a committee charged with pushing through
longer-term debt reduction in the coming months.  If S&P were to downgrade U.S. debt following a failure to
reach a credible deficit reduction agreement, the market
reaction would probably be more severe than the ratings service
forecasts, said Christian Cooper, head of U.S. dollar
derivatives trading in New York at Jefferies Group Inc., one of
20 primary dealers that trades with the  Federal Reserve .  Cooper said long-term Treasury yields could rise by as
much as 40 to 50 basis points, or 0.40 to 0.50 percentage
points. The ramifications in financial markets would be even
broader, he said.  “It is an entirely new world that we would be in to even
consider a downgrade of  U.S. government debt ,” Cooper said.
“This is something that would fundamentally change the
market’s perception of not only U.S. government solvency but
how risky assets around the world are priced as well.”  Democrats and Republicans blamed each other for the
stalemate. Reid said the House’s decision to be out of session
this weekend presents “a bad picture” to Americans as the
deadline nears for possible default on federal debt.  Michael Steel , a spokesman for Boehner, responded with an
e-mail saying the House had passed its plan, which would
condition a debt-ceiling increase on passage of a
constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget. Democrats
say it can’t pass the Senate, which plans to vote on it as
early as tomorrow. 