-- 
Greek Debt-Relief Program Is a ‘Move Toward Reality,’ IIF’s Dallara Says

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-07-21T23:09:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/greek-program-is-move-toward-reality-dallara.html
Europe ’s steps to support  Greece  and
safeguard other euro-area nations will allow markets to move
past contagion fears, Institute of International Finance
Managing Director  Charles Dallara  said.  “This is a move toward reality for the markets, for
investors, for Greece and for Europe,” Dallara said in an
interview in Brussels yesterday. “That acceptance of reality is
the first step toward moving to a brighter future.”  Greece’s rescue package won’t be derailed by a probable
period of temporary default as investors exchange existing bonds
for longer-term securities with more favorable terms, Dallara
said. The Washington-based IIF, which represents more than 400
financial institutions, pledged that its members and other banks
would participate in the program.  “I don’t think the selective default is a moment of any
major consequence,” Dallara said. “Selective default is a
temporary period that you pass through on your way to a better
position.”  The banks’ participation will provide financing of 54
billion euros ($77.6 billion) to Greece from mid-2011 to mid-
2014, building to a total of 135 billion euros through the end
of 2020, according to the IIF’s estimates. The target investor
participation rate is 90 percent, and, as a result of the
program, the average maturity of privately held Greek debt will
extend from six years to 11 years, the group said.  Dallara said the package shows that Greece is in a
different situation than other euro-area countries like  Portugal 
that are struggling to repair their economic and fiscal
foundations. The rescue plan will give the markets breathing
room to evaluate nations on an individual basis, he said.  ‘Ease’ Contagion  “This demonstration by the leaders of Europe that they can
actually come to grips with an exceptionally unique and complex
sovereign debt situation should actually ease the contagion in
the markets with regard to other sovereigns,” Dallara said.  As part of yesterday’s talks, the  European Central Bank 
removed an obstacle to a new bailout after  Jean-Claude Trichet 
softened his opposition to a default which may be declared by
credit rating companies if the debt swap occurs. The ECB had
until now said the euro region’s first sovereign default could
spark a bout of financial turmoil, clashing with German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s position that a default could be
inevitable.  Trichet signaled governments will guarantee any defaulted
Greek debt offered as collateral during money market operations.
That may enable Greek banks to keep tapping the ECB for
emergency funds. Officials said the aim would be to limit any
 credit event  to a few days.  ECB Role  The ECB “understands that it has a crucial responsibility
to underpin financial stability,” Dallara said. “It is
entirely appropriate and necessary, I would say, that they look
to the governments of Europe to shoulder their
responsibilities.”  Participating investors would see on average a 21 percent
reduction in the net present value of their existing Greek
bonds, the IIF estimates. Dallara said the effects on bank
profits, balance sheets and  capital structure  will be handled on
an institution-by-institution basis.  Private investors will have the option to exchange existing
Greek debt into four instruments. Three will be fully
collateralized by AAA-rated zero-coupon securities and have a
30-year maturity, and the fourth will be for 15 years and
partially collateralized by funds held in an escrow account.  Menu of Options  The first option would be to swap existing securities into
a 30-year bond at par value backed by top-rated debt purchased
by the European Financial Stability Facility. The coupon would
start at 4 percent and climb to 5 percent over the life of the
bond, and the principal would be repaid to investors with the
proceeds of the maturing zero-coupon securities.  In the second choice, investors would roll over their
holdings into 30-year debt at par when the existing bonds
mature, with the same collateral and interest rates as the first
option. The other two options involve a “discount bond
exchange” into 15- or 30-year securities, at 80 percent of par
value. Coupons would be higher to reflect the haircut investors
would accept on the value of the bond.  The IIF assumes that an equal portion of investors will
participate in each option.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 