-- 
Greece, Germany Work on Plan to Tighten Economic Cooperation

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-07-21T18:59:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/greece-germany-work-on-plan-to-tighten-economic-cooperation.html
Greece  and  Germany  plan five
business cooperation initiatives to trigger growth and boost the
 Greek economy , said Michalis Chrisochoides, Greece’s growth,
competitiveness and shipping minister.  “Greece needs serious, medium-term investments,”
Chrisochoides told the German Association of Industry in a
speech in Berlin today, according to an e-mailed transcript and
press release from his Athens-based office. “This is the basic
characteristic of German investments.”  The plan includes exporting more renewable energy generated
in Greece to Germany, technical assistance from Kreditanstalt
fuer Wiederaufbau to plug Greek businesses’ liquidity gap,
creating a team to increase shipments to Germany and joint
exports to third countries, setting up a joint team to broaden
German investments in Greece and a visit from a German
delegation to Greece in the fall, according to the release.  European leaders and finance ministers met in Brussels
today to work on a second bailout for Greece after the first
package of 110 billion euros ($158 billion) of rescue loans
failed to convince investors the country could avoid a default.
Greece’s economy is forecast to shrink 3.8 percent of gross
domestic product this year after it contracted 4.4 percent last
year, according to European Commission data released on July 4.  Chrisochoides, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
and Deputy Economy and Technology Minister Bernhard Heitzer
drafted the five-point plan to strengthen economic ties between
the two countries, according to an e-mailed release. The plan
will be completed by the end of the year, it said.  Europe ’s rescue packages must turn into growth plans to be
successful in the long term, Chrisochoides said, adding that
management members of 48 French and German companies expressed
this in a joint letter last month. He said his visit to Berlin
and meetings today show Greeks have reason to be optimistic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in  Athens  at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net . 