-- 
Groupon Should Make Privacy Promises, Reps. Markey, Barton Say

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-07-21T18:50:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/groupon-should-make-privacy-promises-reps-markey-barton-say.html
Two U.S. lawmakers pressed Groupon
Inc., the top online-coupon provider, for more information on
how the company will protect consumer privacy as it collects and
shares more personal information from customers.  Groupon, which is preparing for an initial public offering,
 announced  changes to its privacy policy this month that would
expand the sharing of information with third parties,
Representatives  Joe Barton  and  Edward Markey , who head the Bi-
Partisan House Privacy Caucus, wrote in a letter today to the
company.  “Groupon has made it clear that they are expanding their
business model by collecting more personal information and even
tracking your location,” Barton, a Texas Republican, said in a
statement today. “Avoiding full price shouldn’t put your
privacy at risk.”  The lawmakers asked Groupon to clarify its willingness “to
allow customers to ‘opt-in’” to having their location tracked
and whether the company has experienced any data breaches,
according to the three-page letter addressed to Groupon chief
executive officer  Andrew Mason .  Barton and Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat, also asked
whether Groupon’s business partners are required to adhere to
Groupon’s privacy policies. The lawmakers requested a response
from Groupon by Aug. 10 and said their inquiry was prompted by a
Washington Post  report  on the company’s policy change.  “Groupon may be collecting personal information such as
phone numbers, emails and location data from mobile devices,”
Markey said in a statement. “It’s critical Groupon gets this
right.”  Groupon, based in  Chicago , did not immediately respond to a
request for comment. The company pioneered a business model now
used by 345 sites and accounting for about $133 million in
revenue in top North American markets, according to Yipit Inc.,
which studied online daily deals in 30 major North American
cities.  Groupon registered in June to raise $750 million in an IPO
and named Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit
Suisse Group AG as the lead managers for the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Neher in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  