-- 
Libya Conflict Diverts Navies From Piracy, IMO Says

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-07-22T14:17:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/libya-conflict-diverting-navies-from-piracy-patrols-maritime-group-says.html
(Corrects number of signatories to Djibouti code of conduct
in eighth paragraph of story published July 21.)  Fighting in  Libya  between rebels and
national leader  Muammar Qaddafi  is diverting naval ships from
anti-piracy patrols, according to the  International Maritime
Organization .  “One has to be pragmatic and realistic and accept and
understand that ships that might be made available to support
counter-piracy will be deployed to address the Libyan crisis,”
Secretary-General Efthimios Mitropoulos said at a  conference  in
London today.  Attacks on ships by Somali pirates operating in the Gulf of
Aden and the Indian Ocean, an area as large as  Europe  rose to a
record in 2011’s first half, according to the IMO, the  United
Nations ’ shipping agency. Pirates attacked 187 vessels and
hijacked 22 in the period, its figures show. Piracy costs the
global economy an estimated $7 billion to $12 billion a year,
the IMO says.  Mitropoulos said the timing of his request to NATO
Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen in February for more
ships was “unfortunate” in coinciding with the eruption of
political unrest in the  Middle East  and northern Africa.  “I have not been informed of any increase in the number of
ships made available off Somalia” since then, the IMO chief
said.  23,000 Vessels  Three naval coalitions of NATO, the European Union and the
U.S.-led Combined Maritime Force had between 10 and 16 vessels
in the Indian Ocean and Gulf of Aden to cover 2.6 million square
miles, Major General Buster Howes, operation commander European
Union Naval Force Somalia, said at a U.K.  parliamentary  hearing
on June 22. Some 23,000 ships and $1 trillon worth of trade
transit the gulf annually, according to Howes.  Still, pirates’ success rate in attacking merchant ships
dropped over the past three years as navies intervened more
often, Mitropoulos said. They succeeded in hijacking or robbing
fewer than 20 percent of vessels attacked this year, compared
with a 50 percent success rate in 2008, he said.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization offered spare
civilian workers to train regional coast guards under an IMO
program to which 18 African countries have signed up, Philip
Holihead, who heads up the project, said at the conference.
Terms have yet to be made final, he said.  The IMO asked EU foreign-policy chief  Catherine Ashton  for
naval vessels equipped with helicopters, aircraft, special-
forces teams, supply ships, linguists and medical facilities,
Mitropoulos said, without indicating whether he had received any
response.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in  London  at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  