-- 
Icahn Urges Motorola Mobility to Explore Options for Patents

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 
2011-07-21T20:23:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/icahn-urges-motorola-mobility-to-weigh-patent-options-after-nortel-s-sale.html
Billionaire  Carl Icahn  urged
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. to explore alternatives for its
patents after Nortel Networks Corp. sold wireless-technology
intellectual property for $4.5 billion. The stock soared.  Motorola Mobility’s “patent portfolio, which is
substantially larger than Nortel Networks’ and includes numerous
patents concerning 4G technologies, has significant value,”
Icahn said today in a filing. “There may be multiple ways to
realize such value given the current heightened market demand
for intellectual property in the mobile telecommunications
industry.”  Nortel, which had filed for bankruptcy in 2009, said on
June 30 it would sell more than 6,000 patents to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  and three other
companies. The bid was five times the $900 million offered
before an auction by  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which makes the Android
software used by Motorola and other mobile-phone makers.  “The Nortel sale was a wake-up call to folks in the
financial world,” Ron Epstein, chief executive officer of
 Redwood City , California-based patent brokerage Epicenter IP
Group, said in an interview. “Suddenly they’re thinking, ‘Wait
a minute, maybe there’s another resource in the companies I’m
investing in that’s not being utilized.’”  Previous Icahn Pressure  Motorola, after pioneering mobile-phone technology in the
1980s and 1990s, fell to 2.4 percent of the market last year,
from 21.9 percent in the second quarter of 2006, according to
researcher Gartner Inc. Motorola Mobility, made up of the
mobile-phone and set-top box businesses, was spun off from what
is now Motorola Solutions Inc. in January after shareholderIcahn pressed for a split to improve its performance.  Motorola Mobility jumped $2.78, or 12 percent, to $25.19 at
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange trading, the biggest one-day
gain since the Jan. 4 spinoff. The stock has dropped 24 percent
since the split.  In a statement, Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola
Mobility responded to Icahn by saying its board of directors
“continuously reviews the company’s strategic direction and
opportunities that it believes are in the best interests of the
Company and all of its shareholders.”  InterDigital Inc., a mobile-phone technology designer that
owns thousands of patents, said this week it will explore
strategic options including a sale. Google and Apple are among
the companies weighing possible bids for the company, a person
with knowledge of the situation said this week.  Unlike Nortel  Icahn’s filing is important because it means the financial
community is realizing the potential for patents to be
monetized, said Alex Poltorak, chairman and CEO of Suffern, New
York-based General Patent Corp. However, Motorola’s patent
considerations are “very much unlike” those of Nortel because
the latter had filed for bankruptcy before selling, he said.  “Motorola is a company that is actually engaged in
business,” Poltorak said in an interview. “The Android-based
phones they are selling are in high demand.”  Motorola sells phones that use Google’s Android software,
including the Droid and the Atrix, which went on sale in the
U.S. in February. Android is the fastest-growing operating
system in the smartphone market, according to Gartner.  Patents can play two important roles in a company,
especially as patent disputes over smartphone technology are
becoming more common, Poltorak said. They can be used
“offensively” by suing competitors for infringement, and they
can be used “defensively” to look for ways to countersue a
competitor.  For Motorola, however, Icahn’s filing may do little to
change the company’s strategy, he said.  “They have been buying and selling patents for years,”
Poltorak said. “Mr. Icahn is not opening any new horizons by
suggesting they explore alternatives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at  dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  