-- 
Microsoft Tops Estimates on Corporate Demand, Lower-Than-Expected Tax Rate

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-07-21T23:27:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/microsoft-profit-tops-estimates-as-company-demand-outweighs-consumer-slump.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest
software maker, reported fourth-quarter profit and sales that
exceeded analysts’ predictions as it benefited from robust
demand from corporations and a lower-than-expected tax rate.  Net income in the fiscal period that ended in June rose 30
percent to $5.87 billion, or 69 cents a share, from $4.52
billion, or 51 cents, a year earlier, Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft said in a statement today. That beat the 58-cent
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose to $17.4
billion, compared with the $17.2 billion average projection.  Corporations, eager to upgrade aging fleets of computers,
are snapping up Microsoft’s Office business-productivity
programs and the company’s flagship  Windows operating system .
That made up for weaker demand from consumers, who favored
smartphones and tablets sporting Apple Inc. and Google Inc.
software. Results were also boosted by Microsoft getting more of
its earnings in foreign countries that have lower tax rates.  “It’s a great finish to a fiscal year full of records,”
said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners LP in  New York .  Microsoft said operating expenses in the year that started
July 1 will rise to $28 billion to $28.6 billion, reiterating an
April forecast.  Microsoft was little changed in late trading after earlier
gaining 4 cents to $27.10 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq
Stock Market. The shares rose 2.4 percent last quarter, while
the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.4 percent.  Ireland,  Singapore ,  Puerto Rico   Microsoft said its tax rate fell to 7 percent from 25
percent a year earlier because more earnings were taxed at lower
rates in Ireland, Singapore and Puerto Rico, Microsoft said.  “Our effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal
statutory rate primarily due to a higher mix of earnings taxed
at lower rates in foreign jurisdictions,” Microsoft said in the
 statement .  The rate explains much of the reason why results surpassed
predictions, Chief Financial Officer Peter Klein said in an
interview.  Unearned revenue -- which comes from multiyear contracts
that isn’t recognized in the current period and indicates future
sales -- was also higher than analysts projected. That figure
was $17.1 billion, above the average estimate of $15.6 billion,
according to Bloomberg data.  “It implies a strong close to the end of the quarter from
a bookings perspective, and that’s going to flow into revenue in
the next couple of quarters,” said Tony Ursillo, an analyst at
Loomis Sayles & Co.,  which manages $162.3 billion , including
Microsoft shares. “The flywheel has a lot of energy.”  Windows PC Demand  Microsoft saw higher demand for Windows PCs for
corporations than those for consumers, Klein said. That trend
will continue through the fiscal year that started July 1 as
companies continue replacing older machines, he said.  The company follows  Intel Corp ., the largest chipmaker, in
reporting robust buying by corporations. Intel forecast sales
for the current quarter yesterday that exceeded some analysts’
predictions, citing demand from companies that are upgrading
dated technology. Sales in Microsoft’s business unit, mostly
from Office software, rose 7.5 percent to $5.78 billion,
compared with the $5.7 billion analysts predicted.  Sales to large corporations were strong in part because
Microsoft sales representatives pushed to close deals before the
end of the fiscal year, as is often the case in the fourth
quarter, Klein said.  Sales in Microsoft’s server software unit rose 12 percent
to $4.64 billion.  Consumer Weakness  Microsoft’s consumer business, by contrast, is suffering
amid rivalry from Apple, and its Internet business is contending
with competition from Google and Facebook Inc., which have added
features that keep users engaged for longer stretches. Windows
revenue fell less than 1 percent to $4.74 billion, missing the
$4.8 million average estimate of analysts. That was the third-
straight quarter that the division missed analysts’ estimates.  Consumer demand for Windows PCs was also crimped by
economic weakness in some parts of the world, Klein said.  “There are macro-economic constraints on spending,” he
said. “We see it as specifically acute in netbooks, which
continue to drop roughly 40 percent. Certainly tablets are part
of it.”  Apple, which reported more quarterly profit than Microsoft
for the first time in 20 years in the March quarter, is
persuading customers to pass up new  laptop computers  in favor of
its iPad tablet. Apple said this week it sold 9.3 million iPads
in the June quarter.  Mobile Laggard  About 85 million PCs were sold worldwide in the same
period, research firm Gartner Inc. said. About 20 percent of the
iPads sold went to customers who would have otherwise bought a
Windows PC, Gillis estimated.  Microsoft is working on a successor to its Windows
operating system that can work on tablet-style computers
comparable to the iPad. Windows President Steven Sinofsky showed
a preview of the software in June. The he declined to say when
it would be available, except to note it “won’t be this fall.”  Klein declined to provide specific sales numbers for
Microsoft’s Windows Phone, a revamped product released in
October to reverse share lost to Google and Apple.  Asked whether mobile sales were disappointing, he said,
“Maybe a little.”  Mobile-software sales won’t reach “volume” until 2012,
Klein said.  “The market continues to await evidence of Microsoft’s
ability to establish a presence in mobile,” said Josh Olson, an
analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis . “Until Microsoft is
able to do that, I think the stock is going to continue to trade
in a very narrow band.”  Sales in the entertainment and devices division, which
includes mobile software, gained 30 percent to $1.49 billion --
a sign of demand for Microsoft’s Xbox gaming console.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in  Seattle  at   dbass2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 