-- 
Tiger Woods New Caddie Pick Favors Fanny Sunesson, Irish Bookmaker Says

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-07-22T04:00:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/tiger-woods-new-caddie-pick-favors-fanny-sunesson-irish-betting-site-says.html
Tiger Woods will need a new
caddie when he returns to competition, and Irish bookmaker
 Paddy Power Plc.  says the favorite is Fanny Sunesson -- who
helped  Nick Faldo  win four major golf championships.  Woods, who won 13 of his 14 major titles with  Steve Williams  as his caddie over the last 13 years, said two
days ago on his website that it’s “time for a change” in
announcing the dismissal of Williams. The caddie said the
news came as a shock.  Woods, 35, has neither named a replacement nor said
when he’ll return to competition. He hasn’t played in a
tournament since aggravating knee and ankle injuries at the
Players championship in May.  When Woods does return, there’s a 6-4 chance that it
will be with Sunesson as his caddie, according to  Paddy
Power , Ireland’s biggest bookmaker. Sunesson worked with
Faldo, an Englishman, from 1990 to 1999 and is now caddying
for Henrik Stenson. Both Sunesson and Stenson are from
 Sweden , as is Elin Nordegren, Woods’s ex-wife who left him
after disclosure of the golfer’s multiple affairs.  Byron Bell, the president of Woods’  golf-course design
firm , is listed by Paddy Power as the second choice at 13-
8. Bell caddied for Woods after his childhood friend fired
Mike “Fluff” Cowan in 1999.  Paul Tesori, the caddie for Webb Simpson, is given
odds of 7-4, followed by John Wood, who works with  Hunter Mahan , at 5-1. Tony Navarro, who recently ended a seven-
year partnership with Australia’s  Adam Scott , has 6-1 odds
of being Woods’s next caddie. Williams will now work full-
time for Scott after caddying for him at the U.S. Open and
British Open.  Caddie Lineup  Billy Foster, the caddie for  Lee Westwood , No. 2 in
the Official World Golf Ranking, carried Woods’s bag at the
2005 Presidents Cup and is given odds of 8-1 of succeeding
Williams. U.S. Open champion Rory McIlroy’s caddie, J.P.
Fitzgerald, has 12-1 odds at Paddy Power, followed by Joe
LaCava at 20-1. LaCava is working with  Dustin Johnson  after
almost two decades with  Fred Couples .  Caddies on the U.S. PGA Tour typically get about 10
percent of a golfer’s winnings. Woods has won about $106
million in prize money since 1999, according to his
 website , meaning Williams may have received about $10
million of that during his tenure with Woods.  Woods is scheduled to participate in an Aug. 31
charity event in  New York  organized by Notah Begay III, his
friend and former teammate at Stanford University. Woods’s
tournament schedule remains unclear and he hasn’t said if
he’ll play in the PGA Championship, the season’s last
major, which will be played Aug. 11-14 at Atlanta Athletic
Club in Johns Creek, Georgia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York, at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  