-- 
IMF Urges Stronger Yuan to Protect World From ‘Shocks’ in China’s Growth

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-07-21T05:48:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/imf-presses-for-appreciation-in-yuan-as-chinese-officials-reject-criticism.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
said China should let the yuan gain to boost demand and
global economic stability, citing the risk that any growth
shocks in the country will hurt the world.  Currency appreciation combined with reforms to rebalance
the Chinese economy “would yield substantial benefits,” the
fund said in a  statement  late yesterday in Washington. A
“major disruption in China’s so-far steady growth would have
material adverse consequences,” IMF directors said.  The IMF’s stance marks a shift from  last year , when
directors of the 187-nation fund split over their economists’
view that the yuan was undervalued. China disputed
yesterday’s assessment, while the currency rose to a 17-year
high today, the sixth anniversary of the scrapping of a peg
to the dollar.  “There is a growing consensus that China’s currency
policy is not serving the global economy well,”  Eswar Prasad ,
a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  and a former
head of the China division at the IMF, said in an e-mail.
“It complicates China’s own battle against inflation and
raises the risk of an eventual hard landing there.”  The yuan touched 6.4509 per dollar today in Shanghai
before trading at 6.4513 as of 1:27 p.m.  Manufacturing Contraction  China’s manufacturing may contract this month for the
first time in a year, according to preliminary purchasing
managers’ data released by HSBC Holdings Plc. today.  The main near-term risks are inflation, the threat of a
property bubble, and bad loans after stimulus spending, IMF
staff said in a report completed June 27. The economy remains
on a “solid footing,” the organization’s directors said.  China  disputed the IMF staff assessment that the
currency is “substantially below the level consistent with
medium-term fundamentals,” citing reasons including faulty
current-account projections. He Jianxiong and Zhang Zhengxin,
representatives at the fund’s board, also said that China’s
plan to rebalance demand, including boosting wages to spur
consumption, is “the most comprehensive and elaborate” put
forward by any Group of 20 nation.  The IMF’s 24 directors “generally agreed that, over the
medium term, a stronger renminbi would be an important
component in rebalancing the economy toward domestic
demand,” the fund said in a statement using another term for
the yuan.  Calculating Value  The currency remains undervalued by 3 percent to 23
percent, depending on methodology, and fell against the
currencies of trading partners in the past year in inflation-
adjusted terms, the organization’s economists said.  China kept the yuan stable at about 6.83 per dollar from
July 2008 to June 2010, after allowing it to gain 21 percent
in the previous three years. The IMF didn’t give a breakdown
of how individual directors viewed China’s currency.  On dangers for the banking system, including lending to
local-government financing vehicles, the IMF staff said that
a full assessment is hampered by “serious data gaps” and a
lack of access to confidential data. They saw potential for
“significant contingent liabilities.”  In a “spillover” report on China’s effects on the
world, staff said rebalancing the economy including by
reducing household and corporate savings rates is crucial.  China increasingly has the potential to cause global
“shocks” as the first or second-biggest trading partner of
78 countries with 55 percent of global gross domestic product,
the report said.  Under Pressure  Premier  Wen Jiabao  faces pressure to let the yuan rise
from U.S. lawmakers, who claim an undervalued currency gives
Chinese exporters an unfair advantage. The U.S.
administration declined in May to brand the nation a currency
manipulator, while describing appreciation as
“insufficient.”  Yesterday’s report estimates that China’s current-
account surplus, the broadest measure of trade, will widen to
6 percent of gross domestic product next year, from a
forecast 5.5 percent this year and 5.2 percent last year.  The economy may expand 9.6 percent this year and 9.5
percent in 2012, the IMF said. Inflation should slow to an
average 3.3 percent next year compared with 4.7 percent in
2011, it said.  Financial Risks  In addition to calling for yuan appreciation to support
economic growth, the IMF staff report said such a policy
would reduce risks in the financial system and let other
improvements in interest-rate management, regulation and bond
and stock markets “safely” proceed.  Without a coordinated plan, changes may be dictated by
markets, which “would create liquidity stress, growing
cross-border capital flows and both asset price and
macroeconomic volatility,” the report said. “Given the
increasing complexity of China’s financial system, an ad-hoc
or poorly configured approach would be especially risky, for
both China and the global economy.”  Allowing the yuan to strengthen would slow the buildup
of foreign reserves and reduce the need to “use higher and
higher reserve requirements” for lenders and central bank
intervention to absorb liquidity, the IMF said. China’s
foreign-exchange reserves rose by $153 billion to $3.2
trillion in the second quarter.  The IMF recommended changes to regulation including
stress-testing of banks, tighter oversight for companies
critical to the financial system and improved data quality
and collection. Eventually, China should loosen restrictions
on investment flows, the fund said.  China’s government responded that while it was in
“broad agreement with the scope of the reforms” outlined by
the IMF, setting a definitive sequence for the changes
“would be difficult,” and they would be “preconditioned on
a stable and supportive macroeconomic environment,” the
report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  