-- 
Mineral-Rich, People-Poor Mongolia Prepares for Flood of Money Next Decade

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-21T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/mineral-rich-people-poor-mongolia-prepares-for-flood-of-money.html
Hurrying into her cramped office
deep within  Mongolia ’s huge Soviet-era Government House,
Parliament member Sanjaasuren Oyun, 46, is flushed with
excitement, a smile creasing her usually serious face.  She hands papers to her young female assistant and
exchanges some quick words in the low guttural murmur of
Mongolian. Dressed in a pinstriped suit, with a pearl necklace,
hair cropped to a business-like shoulder length, and an iPad
tucked under her arm, she turns to a waiting reporter.  “Sorry to make you wait,” she said, switching smoothly to
English, which she picked up as a student at Cambridge. “It’s
an important debate we are having today. We are considering a
freeze on new exploration licenses.”  Outside, it’s a still-chilly, late-May afternoon in
Ulaanbaatar, no sign of green along its potholed dirt roads. But
the capital city of about 1 million people is already being
transformed by forces greater than the change of seasons,
 Bloomberg BusinessWeek  reports in its July 25 edition.  A freeze on licenses to explore for minerals is no small
matter in Mongolia, a country undergoing a resources boom, as
miners such as London-based Rio Tinto Group and China’s  Shenhua
Group  compete for the right to extract coal, copper, gold,
molybdenum and uranium.  It’s a resource play that’s expected to bring a flood of
money into the impoverished country over the next decade,
centered around huge mining projects such as the Shivee Ovoo and
Tavan Tolgoi coal reserves, valued at about $300 billion and
$400 billion, respectively, and the copper and gold mine  Oyu
Tolgoi , worth some $300 billion, according to Quam Asset
Management Ltd. in Hong Kong, which runs a Mongolia-focused
investment fund.  Wealth, Wise Use  Oyun is at the center of the country’s efforts to pick its
way between wealth and wise use. She is a geologist who once
worked for the biggest investor in Mongolia’s mining industry,
 Rio Tinto , yet she has made a career pushing for the rights of
ordinary Mongolians and fighting corruption.  She is also part of the nation’s young democratic history.
On the wall in her office is a picture of her brother Zorig, a
member of Parliament who seemed on his way to becoming prime
minister when he was killed in 1998. His murder is still
unsolved.  Investor Talks  On the Parliament floor, members are demanding that the
Mineral Resources and Energy Minister Dashdorj Zorigt step down
for his handling of negotiations with foreign investors.  “The situation is a bit different from before,” Oyun
says, gesturing at a television broadcasting the debate. “When
we made our first mining legislation in 1997, we were desperate
to attract investment, but no more. We can be more demanding.”  She acknowledges that the politicians may be grandstanding,
aiming to embarrass rivals in the run-up to 2012’s presidential
elections. The energy minister didn’t step down, though the
freeze on new licenses has been extended through 2011.  The discussion about ensuring Mongolia benefits from its
resources is a struggle that pits nomadic herdsmen and
environmentalists against well-connected players such as Prime
Minister Sukhbaatar Batbold and Baasangombo Enebish, executive
director and chief executive officer of coal company  Erdenes
MGL , as well as global resource giants such as Rio Tinto and
 Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)   Mining Protest  Oyun realizes it’s time to meet her daughter and rushes
outside, where her driver waits with the 5-year-old.  As the car pulls out around Sukhbaatar Square, in front of
Parliament, Oyun points out an ongoing protest: Three round felt
tents, known as “yurts” or “gers” in Mongolia, have been set
up at the far end of the square. Their occupants are demanding
the government close the mining industry to foreign companies.  “The gentleman who organized this protest has become
something of an extremist --- I’m not sure that’s the right
word,” she says, referring to Tsetsgee Munkhbayar, a former
herdsman turned environmentalist.  “He fired guns near mining equipment last year and now
says he and his followers may have to take up arms against the
government,” she continues, frowning. “He is a resource
nationalist. But here in Mongolia we need to strike a balance.
How to be sensible but also populist -- yes, we face this
tension.”  Mongolia is empty and remote, perhaps one reason Genghis
Khan -- or Chinggis Khaan as his name is spelled locally in
English -- set out to take over most of Eurasia eight centuries
ago.  Desert, Steppe  On the two-hour-plus flight north from Beijing, the
blankness of the Gobi Desert dominates before becoming the
sweeping yellow and green of the steppe, then finally long
ranges of treeless mountains as the plane approaches
Ulaanbaatar. Other than the broad changes in landscape below,
little else is seen. There are no buildings, no roads, no
people, no trees, nothing much at all, really.  Squeezed between  China  and  Russia , and equal in size to
western  Europe , Mongolia has just 2.8 million people, making it
one of the most sparsely populated countries in the world,
notwithstanding the livestock.  Mongolia’s National Statistical Office estimates there are
33 million head of livestock in the country, including goats,
sheep, horses, cattle and camels. More than a third of Mongols
live in the rundown capital, while about a quarter are still
semi-nomadic, living in gers and moving their herds along with
the seasons.  Mineral Riches  While it may be short on humans, Mongolia is one of the
richest nations in terms of natural resources, and that’s just
the known deposits. Four-fifths of the country is still
unsurveyed. Over the next decade, copper production is expected
to double,  iron ore  to triple, coal to grow by six times, and
gold and oil by 10 and 13 times, respectively.  Much of that growth will be driven by demand from China,
predicts Eurasia Capital, an Ulaanbaatar-based investment bank
that focuses on Central Asia and Mongolia.  The biggest prize is Oyu Tolgoi -- or Turquoise Hill --
named after the color of copper oxide as it seeps from the
ground, and one of the largest deposits of copper and gold.  Situated deep in the Gobi Desert, it’s just 80 kilometers
(50 miles) from China’s northern border. Canadian company
Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. and Rio signed an agreement with Mongolia to
develop it in 2009 after the project developer Ivanhoe tried for
more than six years to reach a mining accord. Rio last month
agreed to increase its stake in Ivanhoe to 46.5 percent.  Burnt in Effigy  Securing the deal wasn’t easy; disputes over how much
control Mongolia should cede to the foreign miners led to bitter
negotiations as well as protests where effigies of Ivanhoe’s
founder Robert Friedland and then President Nambaryn Enkhbayar
were burnt. It was “readily acknowledged” that participants in
the demonstrations were paid to parade, Ivanhoe Capital Corp.
spokesman Bob Williamson said.  “It is one of the flagship projects that Rio has,” said
Cameron McRae, president and CEO of  Oyu Tolgoi LLC , in his
expansive office in the Monnis Tower, one of Ulaanbaatar’s new
high-rises. With an expected $6 billion in annual revenue from
the mine, “it gives the copper group the opportunity to move
into one of the top three in the world,” McRae said.  Oyu Tolgoi employs close to 3,000 Mongolians. By early 2013
the company plans to invest $7 billion, including building 100
kilometers of road from the mine to the Chinese border, an 85-
kilometer pipeline to bring water to the operation, a 180-
kilometer transmission line, and eventually a power station that
may cost $1.5 billion.  Supercharging Economy  “We are very aware this is transforming Mongolia’s
economy,” says David Paterson, vice president for regional
development and communications at Oyu Tolgoi, also noting that
 capital spending  on the project’s first stage alone is equal
to Mongolia’s annual gross domestic product.  Simply getting ready to mine is supercharging the tiny
economy. GDP grew 6.1 percent last year and was up 9.7 percent
in the first quarter of 2011 from a year earlier.  “The mining sector could very well carry Mongolia for the
next 50 years,” says Parmeshwar Ramlogan, the Ulaanbaatar-based
resident representative for Mongolia at the  International
Monetary Fund .  Ramlogan predicts Mongolia could grow at double-digit rates
for at least the next 10 years, raising per capita income -- now
at $2,470 -- fourfold within a decade and making it one of the
fastest-growing economies in the world.  Transforming Economies  “There is a time in these transforming economies when
normal economic growth goes out the window,” says Richard Harris, CEO of Quam Asset Management. “It’s like a geological
fault that the economy goes through. You are talking about a
nomad or shopkeeper in a small town who suddenly becomes a truck
driver or a miner. And he goes from earning a few dollars a day
to a few dollars an hour. Then you see the economic changes that
go with that.”  Policy makers in Mongolia have created a so-called human
development fund in large part through prepaid taxes from
foreign investors in the Oyu Tolgoi mine, and it doles out
21,000 tugriks ($17) to every Mongolian once a month.  Government negotiators are also demanding that the foreign
companies that will develop part of the Tavan Tolgoi mine, which
holds an estimated 6.4 billion metric tons of coal, pay their
taxes early. Plans call for listing shares in the other half of
the project in  London  or  Hong Kong , then granting 10 percent of
them to Mongolians, making every citizen a shareholder.  Years of Neglect  No place is likely to change as much as Ulaanbaatar.
Mongolia was a satellite state of the  Soviet Union  from 1921 to
1990, and the years of neglect are still evident in the capital,
with block after block of battered-looking cement residential
buildings lining rutted roads.  A statue of Lenin still stands in front of the Ulaanbaatar
Hotel, built in 1961 to house visiting dignitaries from the
Soviet bloc. Oyun’s grandfather, a Russian explorer, geographer
and ethnologist who spent 26 years in Mongolia, was forcibly
returned to the Soviet Union in 1939 and died there in a gulag
in 1942. His family never learned the nature of his “crime.”  Already high-rises are springing up around Sukhbaatar
Square. Louis Vuitton, Emporio Armani, Burberry and Ermenegildo
Zegna boutiques vie for attention in the blue-glass Central
Tower on the southeastern edge of the square.  In the Monet Restaurant, on the building’s 17th floor,
businessmen in expensive suits dine on Norwegian salmon and
Australian prime beef, finishing with a platter of Gouda,
Camembert and Roquefort cheeses with wild blueberry crackers.  A bottle of Mouton Cadet Reserve Sauternes can be had for
135,000 tugriks ($108) while diners gaze over the square and
beyond to the distant new sports stadium, built with Chinese
money.  Irish Pub  At night a wilder side emerges in places such as Seoul
Street’s Grand Khaan Irish Pub, known for its hamburgers, beer
and occasional fistfights, and in the city’s numerous strip
clubs.  In the notorious Marco Polo Club, Australians and Americans
working for mining-equipment companies mingle with visiting
European investment bankers, drink Chinggis Khaan-brand vodka
mixed with Red Bull, and watch topless Mongolian women pole
dance.  Harris Kupperman, 30, runs his own hedge fund, Praetorian
Capital Management, based in Miami Beach. On a trip through
North Asia last August, he was struck by the economic potential
of Mongolia. He’s bought a house in the high-end neighborhood of
Zaisan with views over Ulaanbaatar. In February he started the
Mongolia Growth Fund, raising $36.6 million.  New York  Vibe  “All it takes is for you to put your feet on the ground
here, you can feel the energy everywhere,” he said. “It’s
unlike anywhere in the world in terms of sheer energy, apart
from New York and maybe Hong Kong.”  Kupperman has started an insurance company and plans to
buy, renovate and rent the dilapidated Soviet-era apartments
that fill the core of the capital. After looking at other
resource economies such as Qatar, Dubai and Kazakhstan,
Kupperman and his partners concluded that real estate and
finance are two industries that flourish in mineral boom
economies, but without the capital costs and political risks of
mining.  Sipping on a Heineken in the View Lounge, a stylish bar on
the rooftop of the 11-story boutique  Corporate Hotel , Kupperman
notes that he’s not the only investor in town.  Dazed and Confused  “You go out on the street any day at noon and you will see
dazed and confused hedge-fund guys walking around, with a
Mongolian as a guide, with dust all over their $1,000 shoes. And
you know they are thinking, [how can I] invest in this
country?”  Mongolia continues to court start-up money. When Prime
Minister Batbold went to China in June, Mongolia’s President
Tsakhia Elbegdorj was in the U.S., visiting, among other places,
the offices of Bloomberg Businessweek.  Elbegdorj, 48, is a former journalist and two-time prime
minister. Like many of the parliamentarians making decisions
about the country’s future, he studied abroad. He has a master’s
degree in public administration from the John F. Kennedy School
of Government at Harvard.  On his June 17 visit he noted that Mongolia is planning to
issue dollar-denominated bonds “in the near future” to finance
expansion of the mining industry and build roads and bridges. It
has yet to do so.  Oyun is a technocrat in her own right. In 1992, as a
student majoring in geology at Cambridge, she flew with a
prospecting team organized by Rio Tinto deep into the Mongolian
desert to examine the potential of Tavan Tolgoi, then an
undeveloped mine. Oyun graduated from Cambridge in 1996 with a
doctorate in earth sciences and joined Rio Tinto in Newbury,
 England , at the branch then responsible for new projects.  Stabbed to Death  In October 1998, one day after returning to England from a
one-month trek in the Tianshan Mountains of Kyrgyzstan, Oyun
received a call at two in the morning from a Mongolian colleague
working in Rio’s Ulaanbaatar office. Her brother Zorig, then
infrastructure minister in the government, had been stabbed to
death in his small apartment in the capital, just before an
election that would have likely made him prime minister.  In an interview just before his death, Oyun recalls, “he
said he was very worried that vested interests were taking
precedence over the national interests of Mongolia.”  Russian Mafia  According to Oyun, many Mongolians are convinced that her
brother’s unsolved murder was a politically motivated
assassination, possibly involving Russian mafia interested in
the country’s then-largest coal mine, Erdenet.  Days after Zorig’s murder, Oyun returned to Mongolia for
his funeral.  “There was this outpouring of public grief that, even for
me, was overwhelming to see,” she remembers. She moved back to
Mongolia to begin a political career, founding Civic Will, an
opposition party.  Since 2009 the country has been governed by a “Grand
Coalition” of the Mongolian People’s Party and the  Democratic
Party . Civic Will’s platform in large part centers on fighting
corruption, especially the growing influence of money in
Mongolian politics.  “I entered politics in 1998 because of my brother’s
murder,” Oyun says. “I didn’t join either party because I
didn’t find support from either of them for clean politics.”  Oyun is fixated on transparent and clean governance,
concerned that the new money will be siphoned off through
corruption.  Corruption Concern  Transparency International , a corruption watchdog, last
year rated Mongolia in the bottom third of 178 countries,
putting it on par with Mali and Mozambique.  Of particular concern are the close links between
government and large businesses. A “majority of the 76 MPs have
significant commercial interests in a range of sectors,”
London-based risk consultants  Exclusive Analysis  said in a 2009
report on Mongolia.  “People are obsessed with money,” said Tsetsgee
Munkhbayar, 45, organizer of the protest in Sukhbataar Square.
With a face brown from years in the sun, Munkhbayar usually
dresses in traditional Mongolian garb: a deel, the long robe
generally worn with a sash, and a rounded, pitched helmet-like
hat.  “The traditional Mongolian perspective of loving nature
and mother earth is being forgotten,” he said. As a people we
are at a dead-end. We must get ourselves away from the idea that
economics is everything and that economics will save us.”  Fire Nation  Munkhbayar heads a coalition of environmental and
nationalist groups called Fire Nation, which organizes protests
against the rush to develop the mineral economy. Self-trained in
environmental legislation, he hands out copies of the national
mining law to a visiting reporter. Frustrated by what he says is
the mining industry’s tendency to ignore land protections,
Munkhbayar and others have taken to violent civil disobedience.  Last September, Munkhbayar was part of the group that fired
bullets into mining equipment owned by Canadian and Chinese
companies that he says were breaking the law. While he claims no
employees were directly threatened, he says without remorse that
the incident was intimidating as staff “ran or tried to get out
of the way.”  On June 3, Munkhbayar led a group of about 50 horsemen into
the center of the city where they shot arrows at Government
House. They were protesting the lack of official response to
calls for a national referendum to elect a new government.  ‘Bribing Officials’  Munkhbayar does much of his work out of a small office in
Ulaanbataar’s Sukhbaatar district, where on a May visit two
volunteers are tapping on ancient, generic computers. Camping
gear, including traditional Mongolian wooden saddles, is piled
against one wall. His wife and 8-year-old daughter, youngest of
four children, watch a tiny television.  “International corporations are bribing our government
officials so they can take over Mongolia,” Munkhbayar said.
“People should stop buying stocks from international mining
companies that are involved in exploiting Mongolia. Instead of
spending money to buy stocks they should use that money to help
movements like ours.”  With a national election looming next year, some financiers
and politicians fear Parliament could take a few pages from
Munkhbayar and vote in policies that might damp economic growth.
It has happened before.  Since leaving the Soviet Union, Mongolia has zigzagged
between privatization and nationalization. In the mid-1990s,
Mongolian politicians, inspired by Newt Gingrich, even wrote a
“Contract with Mongolia.” Later, populist calls to nationalize
industry coincided with the passage of the highest profits tax
on gold and copper in the world. It was repealed two years ago.  Swing to Populism  As commodity prices rise, Mongolia may be swinging back
toward the populists.  Despite passing a stringent fiscal stability law last year,
requiring that the deficit not exceed 2 percent of the budget,
the government plans to run up a deficit more than four times
that amount this year. That may bring inflation into double
digits and drive up the value of the tugrik, making non-mineral
parts of the economy, such as Mongolia’s cashmere industry, less
competitive.  It could also bring on the so-called Dutch disease, says
Rogier van den Brink, lead economist for Mongolia at the  World
Bank . That’s when the discovery of natural resources leads to
the decline of a country’s manufacturing industries.  “It is always very tempting for government and politicians
to say we are rich,” says van den Brink. “The only problem is,
it’s still in the ground. So let’s spend all this money in
advance. That puts fuel on the fire of an already overheating
economy.”  Policy Extremes  It’s true Mongolia has veered between policy extremes,
concedes Oyun, now sitting in the second-floor office of the
 Zorig Foundation , in an old, high-ceilinged building next door
to Mongolia’s Foreign Ministry -- where Oyun served as minister
from 2007 to 2008.  A large map of Mongolia covers much of one wall, next to an
assortment of five photos of Zorig, including one of him perched
on a supporter’s shoulders addressing crowds during a 1990
protest. Student volunteers wander in to ask Oyun about her
schedule for the next week.  “If we stick to the golden middle -- if we stick to the
main international trends of doing business and having good
governance -- not going to either the right or left extremes,
then we don’t have to be what economists call the darling of the
ultraliberals in the West, but we don’t have to introduce the
highest windfall tax in the world either,” she said.  “There is finally, after 20 years, a real opportunity for
Mongolia to grow, and to create jobs and income for the
population. I can’t expect us politicians to be clever, but if
we don’t come up with stupid decisions, then we should be fine
for at least the next few years,” she said with a laugh.  “As Genghis Khan apparently said, it’s easy to ride on a
horse and conquer a country, but much more difficult to get down
from the horse and run it.”  --Dexter Roberts in Beijing. Editors: Bryant Urstadt, Andrew
Hobbs  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dexter Roberts at   droberts34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chris Anstey  in  Tokyo  at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 