-- 
Ingersoll-Rand Drops After Quarterly Profit Trails Estimates

-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 
2011-07-21T21:24:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/ingersoll-rand-boosts-sales-forecast-after-12-quarterly-gain.html
Ingersoll-Rand Plc (IR)  dropped the most
in more than two years in New York trading after quarterly
earnings trailed estimates amid sliding profit in the unit that
makes Trane air conditioners and Schlage locks.  The shares fell $3.74, or 8.4 percent, to $41.03 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, for the
steepest percentage decline since March 2009. The decrease was
the biggest today among the nine companies in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Industrial Machinery Index.  Profit at Ingersoll-Rand’s Residential Solutions unit,
which is the third-biggest and includes Trane and Schlage,
dropped 41 percent to $40.3 million in the second quarter. The
unit’s sales slipped 1.3 percent to $632.1 million, the Swords,
Ireland-based company said today in a statement.  Residential heating and air-conditioning equipment sales
dropped 4 percent as “the sluggish housing market resulted in
soft replacement and new builder markets,” Chief Financial
Officer Steven R. Shawley said on  conference call  to discuss
earnings.  The company is working to improve the unit’s performance in
the second half, Chief Executive Officer Mike Lamach said on the
call.  “It’s a business we know we can make money with, and we
need to execute against that, and this was a disappointment,”
he said. The company stands to benefit from its work in the unit
when the residential market recovers and it already reaps
synergies from making parts for compressors and controls.  ‘Get the Value’  “We are going to run this business and get the value out
of it that I think strategically is ours to get,” Lamach said.  Ingersoll-Rand appointed Gary S. Michel to lead Residential
Solutions, effective Aug. 1, because Steven B. Hochhauser , is
stepping down, the company said today in a separate statement.
Michel previously headed Ingersoll-Rand’s Club Car business.  Companywide profit of 88 cents a share, excluding some
items, trailed analysts’ estimates of 93 cents in the three
months through June. Net income fell 53 percent to $92.3
million, or 26 cents a share, from $196.4 million, or 58 cents,
a year earlier, Ingersoll-Rand said.  “Results were a disappointment,” C. Stephen Tusa, a New
York-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a report.
“We were wrong to dismiss Residential Solutions into this
quarter and despite low expectations, the stock will likely be
down.”  Residential Solutions generated 15 percent of 2010 sales of
$14.1 billion. Climate Solutions, the biggest unit, made up
55 percent and Industrial Technologies, the second-biggest unit,
accounted for 18 percent.  Sales Forecast Boost  Ingersoll-Rand boosted its full-year sales forecast by
$100 million after quarterly revenue climbed 12 percent to
$3.89 billion. Sales in 2011 may be $14.7 billion to $14.9
billion, up from a previous forecast of $14.6 billion to
$14.8 billion, the company said.  Revenue in Climate Solutions, which provides refrigerated
trucking equipment and commercial heating and air-conditioning
services, increased 14 percent to about $2.05 billion in the
quarter.  The unit’s revenue doesn’t include sales from the Hussmann
refrigerated display-case business that Ingersoll-Rand plans to
divest. Ingersoll-Rand wants to complete the divestiture in the
third quarter, the company reiterated today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Barinka in  New York  at 
 abarinka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  