-- 
Minor-League No-Hitter Overturned 2 Days Later as Error Changed to Double

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-07-21T18:57:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/minor-league-no-hitter-overturned-2-days-later-as-error-changed-to-double.html
A no-hitter by minor-league pitcher
Luis Mendoza was erased two days later when officials changed a
ninth-inning error to a double.  A league spokesman said he couldn’t remember a similar case
in the minor leagues, and a researcher at the National Baseball
Hall of Fame couldn’t find one at the major-league level.  Mendoza, who pitches for the Omaha Storm Chasers of the
Triple-A  Pacific Coast League , took a no-hitter into the ninth
inning against the  Memphis  Redbirds at AutoZone Park in Memphis,
 Tennessee , on July 18.  A deep drive by Memphis’s Tyler Greene glanced off the
glove of leaping Storm Chaser left-fielder David Lough. The play
was ruled a two-base error by the Redbirds’ official scorer,
John Guinozzo, who decided after the game to change it to a
double. He changed it back to an error a short time later.  “In rethinking it, he had changed it once shortly after
the game, and then after giving it further consideration, went
with his original ruling,” Dwight Hall, the Pacific Coast
League’s director of operations, said in a telephone interview
today.  Memphis appealed to the league office, which made its
ruling of a double last night. It said in a statement on its
website that it acted “in consideration of language included in
the Official Baseball Rules, and with the benefit of additional
time to review the play, including  video replay  and accounts of
the play.”  ‘Over and Above’  “It certainly was difficult,” Hall said. “With the
ramifications attached to this one, did we go over and above
what the normal process would be, yes we did. It was an
exhaustive review and we just wanted to make sure that the right
ruling was in place.”  Guinozzo has been scoring games for more than 30 years and
is an independent contractor with the league, Hall said.  Hall said he had no recollection of any no-hitter that
later was overturned in Pacific Coast League history. Minor
League Baseball doesn’t keep records on scoring changes, Steve
Densa, a spokesman for the group, said in an e-mail.  In August 1991, 50 major-league pitching performances lost
their official no-hitter status after baseball’s Rules Committee
redefined the qualifications for the achievement. The Hall of
Fame could find no reference to an umpire’s or scorer’s decision
on a no-hitter being overturned after the game, Freddy Berowski,
a researcher for the Hall in Cooperstown, New York, said in an
e-mail.  No-Hit History  Mendoza, from Veracruz,  Mexico , officially was awarded a
one-hit complete game against the Redbirds, missing out on his
second minor-league no-hitter. The 27-year-old right-hander
threw one in 2009 for  Oklahoma City .  Omaha is an affiliate of the  Kansas City Royals ; the
Redbirds are affiliated with the  St. Louis Cardinals .  Jordan Sprechman, a Major League Baseball official scorer
for New York Mets and Yankees games, said scorers are bound to
make their calls free of influence from any extraneous criteria,
such as whether a no-hitter is in progress or whether there is a
streak occurring.  Scorers also need to consider whether the fielding play
would have been routine, said Sprechman, who declined to comment
on another scorer’s decision or the Pacific Coast League’s
action.  “The questions that need to be asked are: (1) was that a
routine play for the fielder to make; or (2) if he makes that
play, would that have been considered a good play?” Sprechman
said in an e-mail. “Fielders are not required, for scoring
purposes, to make a good play to avoid errors; they are required
to make routine plays.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 