-- 
Insolvent Davie’s Assets Surface in Bid to Land Canada’s Largest Ship Deal

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-07-21T19:43:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/insolvent-davie-s-assets-surface-in-canadian-navy-contract-bid.html
Three shipyards have submitted bids
for a C$35 billion ($37 billion)  contract  to build ships for the
Canadian Navy and Coast Guard, including one that plans to use
the assets of insolvent Davie Yards Inc.  Upper Lakes Group Inc., a Toronto-based shipyard operator,
is joining with Seoul-based Daewoo Shipbuilding and Marine
Engineering Co. Ltd. and Montreal-based engineering firm SNC-
Lavalin Group Inc. to bid on the contract. The companies filed
their bid after Upper Lakes received court approval to acquire
 Davie ’s assets, a Levis, Quebec-based shipyard that has been in
 bankruptcy protection  since last year.  A Quebec Superior Court judge today approved the asset sale
to a subsidiary of Upper Lakes, which has formed a joint venture
with SNC and Daewoo to bid on the project. The court’s approval
came just hours before the bidding deadline at 2 p.m. Ottawa
time.  “We’re confident that we are eligible to bid, and we are
confident that our bid is compliant in all respects, and
competitive,” said John Dewar, Upper Lakes’s vice-president of
strategic services. He said the new company, called Davie
Canada, will bid for the non-combat component of the project,
which will supply support ships to the navy and a polar
icebreaker and research vessels to the Canadian Coast Guard.  The other two bidders are Vancouver-based Seaspan Marine
Corp. and Irving Shipbuilding Inc. of Halifax, Nova Scotia.  No Insolvent Bidders  Seaspan has called on the federal government to enforce a
rule, outlined in a tender document issued in February, that
bars companies that are insolvent or in court-supervised
bankruptcy protection from submitting bids.  “That requirement has been known for a long time,” said
Jonathan Whitworth, chief executive officer of Seaspan Marine
Corp., a Vancouver-based company that has already submitted its
bid. “Whether or not you believe the rules are fair, the rules
have been very clearly articulated.”  The government’s tender documents say two shipyards will be
selected to complete the contract,  Canada ’s largest procurement
project. It will supply about 30 vessels, including 15 warships
and six Arctic patrol ships. The government has said it will
select the winners within the next few months.  Canada has gone to “unprecedented” lengths to ensure the
bidding process is fair and transparent, according to documents
posted on the Public Works Department’s  website . The government,
which says the contract will help renew Canada’s navy and coast
guard fleets, has banned bidders from retaining corporate
lobbyists.  Five on Shortlist  A shortlist of five companies was issued in September:
Kiewit Offshore Services of Newfoundland; Irving Shipbuilding,
Davie Yards; an Upper Lakes subsidiary, Seaway Marine &
Industrial Inc.; and Seaspan.  Upper Lakes will pay C$1 million to buy the shipyard assets
and pay C$20.1 million to a  Quebec  government lending agency to
settle a secured loan as part of the C$27.9 million transaction,
said Marine-Christine St-Pierre, a spokeswoman for Davie Yards.
The C$1 million will be distributed to Davie creditors.  The Davie Canada bid could get financial backing from the
Quebec government, said a spokeswoman for Quebec’s economic-
development minister, Clement Gignac.  “We’ve always said that we would support Davie as long as
they get a viable plan to restart the yard and credible
partners,” Jolyane Pronovost said in a telephone interview.
While she wouldn’t elaborate on what kind of financial support
the province would provide, she said the government won’t take
an equity stake in the new company.  Provinces Weighing In  Other provincial governments are also weighing in. Nova
Scotia Premier Darrell Dexter, who has actively urged the
federal government to award the contract to Irving, said in an
e-mailed statement that the “confusion around the other bids
speaks for itself.”  “The government of Canada needs a dependable partner in
this, and Irving Shipbuilding is it,” Dexter said in a
statement provided by his office, adding that “all bids should
be given the same treatment.”  British Columbia’s Pat Bell said the request for proposals
made it clear the winning bidder had to be in good financial
health.  “The bid criteria were that the company had to be on solid
financial ground and in a solvent state and capable of
delivering on a project,” said Bell, minister of jobs, tourism
and innovation, in a phone interview. The province is prepared
to provide financial support for Seaspan’s bid, he said, without
elaborating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 