-- 
AT&T Sales Top Estimates as IPhone Discounts Lure Customers

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-07-21T20:11:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/iphone-discounts-help-at-t-retain-customers-as-sales-top-analyst-estimates.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the second-largest U.S.
wireless carrier, reported sales that topped analysts’ estimates
as a discount on an older version of the iPhone helped keep
users from switching to  Verizon Wireless .  Sales rose 2.2 percent to $31.5 billion, Dallas-based AT&T
said today. That exceeded the $31.3 billion average estimate of
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Net income declined 10 percent,
and earnings per share were 60 cents, matching the average of
analysts’ estimates.  In its first full quarter without exclusive U.S. rights to
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, AT&T cut the price of the older 3GS model
to $49 to entice customers to stay. The gain of 331,000 contract
users at AT&T, which is seeking to buy  T-Mobile USA  Inc., beat
the average estimate of 96,000 of six analysts compiled by
Bloomberg.  “That was a very solid number,” said  Michael Nelson , an
analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in  New York  who had
forecast no gain in contract subscribers. “It shows AT&T has
successfully defended its turf after losing iPhone
exclusivity.” He rates AT&T shares “outperform.”  Verizon, the largest U.S. wireless carrier, began offering
the iPhone in February and is also luring clients with a new
network that promises faster Internet speeds.  AT&T rose 5 cents to $30.28 at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock
Exchange. The stock has added 3.1 percent this year.  IPhone Activations  Verizon is in the midst of a three-year push to cover the
U.S. with a newer wireless technology called Long Term Evolution
that offers high-speed downloads. AT&T plans to begin its LTE
service this year.  AT&T Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson is also
seeking regulatory approval to buy T-Mobile USA from  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  for $39 billion to reduce dropped calls and improve
his company’s Web connections. AT&T said today it is confident
it’ll complete the deal in the first quarter of 2012.  Apple this week reported record worldwide sales of the
iPhone in the second quarter, with units more than doubling from
a year ago to 20.3 million. AT&T activated 3.6 million in the
quarter, compared with 3.2 million a year earlier.  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , which co-owns Verizon Wireless with
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , is scheduled to report second-quarter
results tomorrow.  ‘Encouraging Sign’  Of AT&T’s iPhone activations, 24 percent were new
subscribers, the company said.  “Considering Verizon has the iPhone in the marketplace,
the fact that some customers are still choosing to go to AT&T is
an encouraging sign for the future,” said Todd Rosenbluth, an
equity analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  in New York who recommends
buying AT&T shares.  Sales at AT&T’s wireless business rose 9.5 percent to $15.6
billion, with data-service sales increasing 23 percent to $5.4
billion. The company sold 5.6 million smartphones, with sales of
phones using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software doubling.  Churn, or the rate at which customers left, was 1.15
percent for contract subscribers, up from 1.01 percent a year
earlier and down from 1.18 percent in the first quarter.  The company’s U-verse service, which offers packages of
home-phone, TV and Internet service, added 202,000 video
customers for a total of 3.4 million.  Net income fell to $3.59 billion, or 60 cents a share, from
$4 billion, or 67 cents, a year earlier.  The T-Mobile USA acquisition, announced in March, would
combine AT&T with the fourth-largest U.S. wireless provider.
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-biggest carrier, is pushing for
regulators to block the deal, which needs approval from the U.S.
Justice Department and Federal Communications Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  