-- 
Ireland May Put ‘Toe’ in Debt Market With Sale of Treasury Bills

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-07-21T13:24:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/ireland-may-put-toe-in-debt-market-with-sale-of-treasury-bills.html
Ireland may seek to put its “toe”
back in the debt markets in the second half of 2012 with a sale
of Treasury bills, said  John Corrigan , chief executive officer
of the National Treasury Management Agency.  U.S. investors including  hedge funds  will probably be the
first buyers as Ireland seeks to return to bond markets after a
roadshow by the agency this year generated “huge interest,”
according to Corrigan.  Ireland sought an international bailout last year as
investors shunned government and bank debt after the economy
shrank about 15 percent since 2007. While the NTMA said the
state is fully funded through 2013, the government has said it
wants to test the market next year.  “International investors acknowledge the strong progress
Ireland is making in tackling its domestic problems, but the
stresses in the  euro zone  overshadow everything else,” Corrigan
said at a briefing today in Dublin.  The yield on 10-year Irish bonds has climbed 343 basis
points to 12.84 percent since Nov. 26, two days before the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  signed off on
the nation’s 85 billion-euro ($122 billion) bailout.  European leaders arrived in Brussels seeking solutions for
the 21-month-old sovereign-debt crisis as Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said  Greece  may not be able to
avoid a default.  Kevin Cardiff, head of the Irish Finance Ministry, said the
government is focusing on not having to default on its debt.  “What we are planning for and working on is the
government’s policy, which is to ensure that we don’t have to
default,” he told lawmakers in Dublin today at a parliamentary
committee. “All our focus is not being at the default stage,
and that is frankly a much more likely scenario.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  