-- 
Israel Short-Term Bills Drop on Risk Demand as Redemptions Slow

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-07-21T10:50:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/israel-short-term-bills-drop-on-risk-demand-as-redemptions-slow.html
Israel  short-term bonds issued by
the central bank dropped, pushing yields to the highest in more
than a week, as a slowdown in the pace of fund redemptions and
optimism about the European debt crisis boosted risk appetite.  The yield on the Makam bill due December 2011 rose two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.21 percent at 1:11
p.m. in Tel Aviv, the highest level since July 13. The yield has
dropped 10 basis points this month.  “Following a slowdown in redemptions, as there are more
signs of a containment of the debt crisis in  Greece , investors
are starting to feel more confident to move out of secure  Bank
of Israel  short-term bills and are looking for riskier assets,”
Yaniv Hevron, head of macro-strategy at Excellence Nessuah
Investment House Ltd. in  Ramat Gan , Israel, said by telephone.
“Yields have come down sharply over the past weeks on
expectations interest rates will moderate and concern about
global growth.”  German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy reached a joint position on Greece before euro-
region leaders meet today to discuss the region’s debt crisis.
Investors withdrew a 494 million shekels ($144 million) from
traditional Israeli mutual funds last week, about the average
daily drawdown in June, Meitav Investment House Ltd., said in
report released July 17. Redemptions included 330 million
shekels from corporate-bond funds, while  money market funds 
raised about 760 million shekels.  The Bank of Israel kept the benchmark lending rate at 3.25
percent in June after four increases this year, citing concern
about slower U.S. economic growth and rising debt risk in
 Europe . Policy makers are forecast to leave the rate unchanged
at their next meeting July 25, according to the median estimate
of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 10-year Mimshal Shiklit bond due January
2020 rose for the first time in seven days, increasing one basis
point to 4.97 percent. The shekel weakened for the first time in
three days, declining 0.3 percent to 3.4275 against the dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  