-- 
Mizuho Financial Said to Be Close to Buying $760 Million Vietcombank Stake

-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 
2011-07-21T04:05:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/mizuho-close-to-buying-760m-vietcombank-stake.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  is in
final talks to buy a stake in Vietnam’s largest publicly traded
bank for as much as 60 billion yen ($760 million), said a person
with knowledge of the discussions.  A unit of Mizuho,  Japan ’s third-biggest bank by market
value, aims to acquire as much as 20 percent of Joint-Stock
Commercial Bank for  Foreign Trade  of Vietnam by end of next
month, the person said on condition of anonymity before a deal
is struck. That would be the biggest purchase of a stake in a
Vietnamese company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign banks are investing in Vietnam to tap demand for
credit in the Asian nation even as it struggles to contain the
region’s steepest inflation, restrain lending growth and trim
the  budget deficit .  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  and
 Singapore ’s  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  won approval to raise
their stakes in Vietnamese banks earlier this month.  Vietnam is “one of the last frontiers in Asia in terms of
where you still have strong organic growth potentially over the
next 20 years,” said Fiachra MacCana, managing director of Ho
Chi Minh City Securities Corp. The country’s banks are becoming
investment targets because their valuations have “come down to
quite reasonable levels,” he said.  Pay a Premium  Masako Shiono, a spokeswoman for Mizuho, declined to
comment. Phone calls to Chairman Nguyen Hoa Binh and Chief
Executive Officer Nguyen Phuoc Thanh at the Hanoi-based lender,
known as Vietcombank, weren’t immediately answered. The Wall
Street Journal earlier reported that Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.
is the preferred bidder to take a 15 percent stake for about
$500 million.  The $760 million valuation for 20 percent of Vietcombank
would imply paying a 44 percent premium over the $528 million
value of the stake at yesterday’s closing price, according to
Bloomberg data. That would be Tokyo-based Mizuho’s biggest
investment in a foreign company since it bought a stake in
Merrill Lynch & Co. for $1.2 billion in 2008.  Vietcombank climbed 3.3 percent to 28,500 dong at 10:47 a.m.
on the Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange, paring this year’s
decline to 1.8 percent. Mizuho gained 0.8 percent to 129 yen on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The Japanese bank and bigger rivals  Sumitomo Mitsui 
Financial Group Inc. and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. are
expanding in  Asia  as falling prices and an aging population
cause lending to shrink at home.  Asian Expansion  Mitsubishi UFJ said last month it plans to strengthen its
capital alliance with CIMB Group Holdings Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s
second-biggest banking group. Sumitomo Mitsui is the largest
shareholder in Vietnam Export-Import Commercial Joint Stock Bank
with a 15 percent stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vietcombank, the country’s biggest publicly traded lender
by market value, said on May 17 it is reviving plans to sell as
much as a 20 percent stake to overseas investors by early next
year. The state-controlled bank first sold shares to outside
investors in 2007 before listing two years later.  Vietnamese policy makers are grappling with how to slow
Asia’s fastest inflation rate while sustaining economic growth.
The  State Bank  of  Vietnam  this month cut a key interest rate
even after consumer prices rose 20.8 percent in June from a year
earlier, the most since November 2008.  Sydney-based Commonwealth Bank got permission to increase
its holding in Vietnam International Commercial Joint-Stock Bank,
known as VIB, to the 20 percent limit from 15 percent, the
central bank said on July 11. UOB will be able to raise its
stake in Southern Commercial Joint-Stock Bank to a similar level.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  