-- 
J&J Blames Staff Cuts, Pfizer Deal for Tylenol Recall Flood

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-07-21T20:05:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/j-j-exonerates-top-executives-as-it-blames-cuts-pfizer-deal-for-recalls.html
Johnson & Johnson’s flood of product
recalls last year stemmed from poor management, staffing cuts
and breakdowns in integrating the consumer unit it bought from
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , J&J said in court papers.  Top executives at the world’s second-largest health-care
products company, though, aren’t to blame, J&J said in the filing.  The report by a special committee of J&J board members,     
filed in response to investor lawsuits, said the company’s
McNeil unit suffered from “an adversarial relationship” between
some quality-control and production staff as well as "an emphasis
on production volume” over compliance. The panel urged J&J’s 
board to create a new regulatory and compliance panel.  Recalls have dogged J&J the past two years, led by the
withdrawal of more than 40 brands of children’s Tylenol, Motrin,
and other medicines with foul odors or faulty ingredients. The
 New Brunswick , New Jersey-based company shut one factory for an
overhaul last year and signed a consent decree in March
expanding U.S. oversight at three plants.  J&J’s consumer division “should have paid more attention
to” quality issues “and exercised more management oversight of
McNeil,” the committee said in a 122-page report filed in
federal court in Trenton,  New Jersey . “With reduced central
oversight and tasked with implementing the Pfizer Healthcare
acquisition, some McNeil employees may have lost focus and
commitment to maintain quality standards.”  Lawsuit Response  The report was a response to lawsuits filed by investors
last year who said J&J’s leadership missed a series of “red
flags” about the quality problems, as well as allegations of
kickbacks, illegal marketing of drugs and bribes paid to doctors
outside the U.S.  While the lawsuits argue that J&J’s problems are systemic,
the lapses “were largely confined to McNeil,” the directors’
panel wrote. “There appears to be no single cause for the
developments at McNeil. Senior management never issued any
directives to the effect that quality should be sacrificed for
production; nor did anyone report to senior management that
McNeil was in jeopardy of significant regulatory intervention
because it was out of compliance.”  The committee found no evidence that Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer William Weldon engaged in or was aware of any
wrongdoing, according to the report.  Biggest Deal  J&J purchased New York-based Pfizer’s consumer health-care
unit in 2006 for $16.6 billion, in what was then the company’s
biggest acquisition. Pfizer is the world’s biggest health-care
company by sales.  Shares of J&J gained 23 cents to $66.47 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have increased
7.5 percent this year.  McNeil shut its Fort Washington, Pennsylvania, plant on
April 30 last year, the same day it pulled 136 million bottles
of over-the-counter children’s medicines tainted with metal
flecks or containing improper levels of ingredients. The list of
recalls has since grown to include  contact lenses , artificial
hips, insulin cartridges and  prescription drugs  across J&J’s 250
subsidiaries.  The Pfizer acquisition had “a major impact” on procedures
at McNeil, adding more than 3,000 product categories for the
subsidiary, the committee report said. J&J installed new
manufacturing lines at Fort Washington and a Las Piedras,  Puerto
Rico , factory, “increasing the volume and complexity of their
operations and distracting” from quality improvements.  Leadership Shuffles  At the same time, McNeil was going through successive
leaders in rapid order “who may not have had sufficient
understanding of what was taking place at the plant level,” the
committee said.  “At the plant level, there seemed to be a lack of
attention to product quality by some non-quality personnel,”
leading to friction with those responsible for compliance, the
committee found.  A 2007 restructuring may have exacerbated the situation,
cutting staff at J&J’s corporate quality and compliance program
by 35 percent. The reshuffling took away the corporate
division’s authority to conduct unannounced audits at
subsidiaries. A “virtual hiring freeze” the following two
years also made it difficult for McNeil to add quality
reviewers, the report found.  Averaging Scores  An internal program to assess J&J factories gave  Fort
Washington  and Las Piedras low scores for their internal
auditing procedures in 2008 and 2009, the report said. But those
were averaged with better measures for other attributes and
corporate leaders learned only of the top-line, positive scores
for each facility, directors said.  When the board’s audit committee received a routine
briefing from the consumer division in 2009, “there were no
sites in the red zone.”  The report was written by four independent directors asked
by the board to investigate the lawsuits’ allegations. Charles O. “Chuck” Prince, the former Citigroup Inc. chief executive
officer, led the group, which included  Anne Mulcahy , former CEO
of Xerox Corp.; William D. Perez, former CEO of Wm. Wrigley Jr.
Co.; and Michael M.E. Johns, chancellor of Emory University.  While the board was unaware of problems at McNeil as they
developed, senior management acted aggressively once the issues
came to their attention, the committee found.  ‘No Red Flags’  “The board and audit committee devoted substantial amounts
of time and effort to review compliance efforts,” they said.
“There were no red flags or indications of systemic failure
that were overlooked. As issues arose, they were appropriately
addressed and resolved -- often with the expenditure of
significant resources.”  In a statement today, J&J said its management “takes the
shareholder concerns and criticisms very seriously.” The full
board voted unanimously on July 18 to adopt the committee’s
recommendations, said Carol Goodrich, a spokeswoman.  Douglas Eakeley, an attorney for  Lowenstein Sandler PC  of
Roseland, New Jersey, conducted the investigation for the board.  The suing shareholders include the Minneapolis
Firefighters’ Relief Association and the Hawaii Laborers Pension
Fund. They’ve asked a judge to order top executives and
directors to pay damages to the company for mismanagement and to
adopt new corporate governance procedures.  An attorney for the shareholders, New York-based Jeroen van
Kwawegen, declined to comment in a telephone interview.  The case is In Re  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  Derivative Litigation,
10-cv-2033, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net . 