-- 
Cameron Says James Murdoch Still Has Questions to Answer on Phone Hacking

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-07-22T20:30:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/james-murdoch-testimony-challenged-as-law-firm-prepares-response.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said  News Corp. (NWS)  Deputy Chief Operating Officer James Murdoch
still has questions to answer over the hacking of phones by
reporters at the News of the World newspaper.  Cameron made his comments after Murdoch’s testimony to
lawmakers this week was challenged by two former employees of
News Corp.’s U.K. newspaper unit, prompting one opposition
lawmaker to ask the police to investigate.  “Clearly James Murdoch has got questions to answer in
Parliament and I’m sure he will do that,” Cameron said in an
interview with  BBC  television today in Warwickshire, central
 England . “News International has got some big issues to deal
with and a mess to clear up. That has to be done by the
management of that company.”  The widening phone-hacking scandal and its political
backlash has forced  News Corp. (NWSA)  to close the 168-year-old News of
the World and drop its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.6 billion) bid for
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  At least 10 people have been
arrested, including former News International Chief Executive
Officer Rebekah Brooks and ex-News of the World editor  Andy Coulson , who was Cameron’s press chief until January of this
year.  Murdoch ‘Mistaken’  Tom Crone, a former lawyer at News International, and  Colin Myler , the editor of the tabloid until this month, said Murdoch
was “mistaken” about information he received on a settlement
he authorized for a phone-hacking victim.  “We’re getting near to the core of this now, we’re getting
nearer to the truth,”  Tom Watson , an opposition  Labour Party 
lawmaker, told the BBC in an interview in which he said he was
referring the matter to the police. “If their statement is
accurate it shows  James Murdoch  had knowledge that people were
involved in hacking as early as 2008.”  A spokesman for London’s Metropolitan Police, which is
investigating the hacking allegations, said by telephone it had
received a letter from Watson. The U.S.  Justice Department  has
asked the London police for cooperation in its probe of the
hacking scandal, said a person familiar with the matter who
declined to be identified because they aren’t authorized to
speak publicly.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation is probing whether
employees of News Corp. sought unauthorized access to voice-mail
accounts of victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attack on
New York’s World Trade Center. Justice Department spokeswoman
 Laura Sweeney  declined to comment on the probe.  House of Commons  Murdoch, 38, wrote to the U.K. House of Commons Culture,
Media and Sport Committee Chairman John Whittingdale to say he
stood by his testimony to the panel on July 19.  “I was questioned thoroughly and I answered truthfully,”
he said in the letter, according to an e-mailed copy. Murdoch
said he is preparing a written response to questions he was
asked to clarify.  News Corp. fell 6 cents to $16.42 at 4 p.m. in  New York .  Crone, Myler, the police and the Press Complaints
Commission are casting doubt on James Murdoch’s explanation as
to why News Corp. failed to investigate allegations of phone
hacking in more depth. The police, whose 2006 probe stopped at
the prosecution of reporter Clive Goodman and private
investigator  Glenn Mulcaire , have said the company obstructed
their probe. The Press Complaints Commission, whose inquiry
James Murdoch also referred to, has said it was lied to.  Corporate Governance  Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  should strengthen corporate
governance rules and tighten internal controls, Saudi Prince
Alwaleed bin Talal al Saud said yesterday.  “All of this is in motion already,” Alwaleed, whose
Kingdom Holding Co. owns about 7 percent of News Corp.’s voting
shares, said in a CNN interview on “Piers Morgan Tonight.” He
said he wasn’t worried about the fallout from the hacking
scandal at the now-defunct News of the World newspaper.  The Saudi prince, 56, issued a statement of support for
Murdoch and his son, James, on July 20, the day after they gave
three hours of testimony in the U.K.’s Parliament.  In a statement, Myler and Crone said: “Just by way of
clarification relating to Tuesday’s CMS Select Committee hearing,
we would like to point out that James Murdoch’s recollection of
what he was told when agreeing to settle the  Gordon Taylor 
litigation was mistaken.  ‘For Neville’  “In fact, we did inform him of the ‘for Neville’ e-mail
which had been produced to us by Gordon Taylor’s lawyers.”  The “for Neville” e-mail was uncovered by lawyers working
for Taylor, chief executive of the Professional Footballers’
Association, in April 2008. From one of the paper’s junior
reporters and apparently intended for Neville Thurlbeck, the
paper’s chief reporter, it contained transcripts of messages
left for and by Taylor. In 2009 Crone told the Culture Committee
that following the discovery of this e-mail, News International
decided to settle with Taylor.  Harbottle & Lewis LLP, the firm James and Rupert Murdoch
told the Culture Committee on July 19 had given them a clean
bill of health, has said it also wishes to respond to the
testimony. The firm is seeking clarification from New York-based
News Corp. about the extent to which its duty of client
confidentiality is waived, according to a person familiar with
the situation, who declined to be identified because the matter
is private.  “News Corp. never did a full investigation and they’re
still engaging in a cover-up,”  Chris Bryant , a Labour lawmaker
who is suing the company over phone-hacking, said in an
interview. “Harbottle & Lewis were asked to do a very specific
thing, and they did that thing.”  ‘Relied Upon’  James Murdoch told the committee the company had “relied
upon” Harbottle & Lewis’s report in its assertions that phone-
hacking had been down to a single reporter. This has been the
company’s position since at least 2009, when then News of the
World legal manager Crone told the Culture Committee that the
law firm’s investigation had answered the question: “Was anyone
involved with Mulcaire, or doing this, that or the other?”  After the Murdochs had left Parliament on July 19, the Home
Affairs Committee began a hearing with Ken Macdonald, a former
Director of Public Prosecutions brought in as outside counsel to
News Corp. earlier this year to look at a selection of e-mails
from the Harbottle & Lewis file.  Much Narrower  He described a much narrower remit for the law firm’s
investigation, saying it had been commissioned as part of a
defense of an unfair dismissal claim brought in 2007 by jailed
royal reporter  Clive Goodman . “The file was brought into effect
to deal with that issue,” he said.  James Murdoch told the Culture Committee that Harbottle &
Lewis “had issued a clear opinion that there was no additional
illegality other than the two individuals involved before.” The
firm responded by writing to Whittingdale, saying it had asked
News Corp. to waive its obligation of confidentiality so that it
could submit evidence.  News Corp. initially refused, before issuing a statement
July 20 saying it would do so. A person familiar with the matter
who spoke on condition of anonymity said Harbottle & Lewis was
seeking further reassurance from News Corp.  ‘Stunned and Shocked’  Harbottle & Lewis has its own questions to answer.
Macdonald said it took him five minutes with the e-mails he saw
from its files to conclude they showed evidence of “serious
criminal offenses.” He reported to News Corp.’s board that they
should be handed to the police. He said the “stunned and
shocked” board accepted his advice “immediately.” Police have
since opened a probe into whether officers took bribes from the
newspaper for information leading to stories.  “There has been an awful lot that has not come out,” said
Martin Moore, director of the Media Standards Trust. “It
appears from the outside as though one of the reasons that
hasn’t come out is deliberate, and now that those constraints
seem to be falling away, we’ll hopefully learn a lot more.”  The actions of Harbottle & Lewis relating to the phone-
hacking scandal may be investigated by the U.K. regulator that
oversees attorneys.  The Solicitors Regulation Authority said in a statement
today it was starting a probe into lawyers related to the
scandal after U.K. lawmaker Watson raised concerns. A post on
Watson’s website said the regulator’s response related to
Harbottle & Lewis.  ‘Preliminary Review’  “We have now carried out a preliminary review of public
domain material in this fast-moving situation,” SRA Chief
Executive Officer Antony Townsend said in a letter to Watson,
posted on the politician’s website. “As you will be aware, a
number of issues are emerging which include the matters which
you have raised.”  The regulator has the power to issue fines and ban people
from working as lawyers. Townsend said any regulatory action
taken will be public, and the SRA “will pursue it vigorously
and thoroughly.”  A message left with Harbottle & Lewis’s press office wasn’t
immediately returned.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 