-- 
Janus Profit Climbs 39% as Global Stock Market Gains Outweigh Redemptions

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-07-21T20:11:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/janus-profit-climbs-39-as-global-stock-market-gains-outweigh-redemptions.html
Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS) , owner of
the Janus, Perkins and Intech fund families, said second-quarter
profit increased 39 percent as rising stock markets damped the
impact of investor withdrawals.  Net income rose to $41.9 million, or 23 cents a share, from
$30.2 million, or 17 cents, a year earlier, the Denver-based
company said in a statement today. Analysts had expected
earnings of 23 cents a share, according to the average of eight
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Janus benefited from a surge in global stocks from
September through February. Measured by the MSCI AC World Index,
stocks rose 27 percent in the year ended June 30, boosting
client assets. That helped counter the firm’s eighth straight
quarter of redemptions as investors withdrew $3.1 billion.  “It’s mostly in line with our expectations both in terms
of earnings and from the fund flows standpoint,” Jason
Weyeneth, an analyst in  New York  with Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc.,
said in a telephone interview. He expected the company to earn
22 cents a share.  Earnings were reduced by $1.83 million in the quarter
because of underperformance relative to benchmarks at 12 funds,
which triggered fee reductions, according to a presentation to
analysts. That amount may grow to $16.4 million by the first
quarter of next year if fund performance doesn’t improve and
assuming assets remain steady, Janus said in the presentation.  ‘Hit to Revenue’  “That would be a significant hit to revenue,”  Michael Kim , an analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in New York,
said in an interview.  Janus rose 15 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $9.22 at 4:02 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, after falling as
much as 5.7 percent earlier. The stock has declined 29 percent
this year, worst among the 18-company  Standard & Poor’s  index of
asset managers and custody banks. The index has fallen 6.1
percent this year.  Intech, the firm’s subsidiary that uses mathematical models
to pick securities, reported investor deposits of $500 million
in the three months ended June 30, the first such progress in a
quarter in almost three years. The deposits were “substantially
impacted” by a $1.3 billion mandate from one institutional
investor, the company said.  Quant Funds  Intech had suffered $19.7 billion in net withdrawals over
the previous 10 quarters. In the past year, 94 percent of the
unit’s funds beat their benchmarks.  Laurence D. Fink, chief executive officer of New York-based
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , said yesterday his firm is seeing “a dramatic
turnaround in the future prospects” of mathematical funds.  Investors withdrew a net $4.5 billion from Janus branded
funds in the three months ended June 30, while the firm’s
Perkins unit saw redemptions of $100 million. Fixed-income funds
gathered $1 billion.  The company’s mutual funds were hurt by the removal of two
of Janus’s largest equity funds from a Bank of America Merrill
Lynch model portfolio in May.  Over the past year, 92 percent of the company’s equity
funds, excluding Intech, performed in the bottom half of their
categories as measured by research firm Lipper, while 79 percent
beat most competitors over five years. Janus has about 90
percent of its client assets invested in stocks.  Expenses Fall  The stock market gains helped boost assets under management
by 15 percent from the year-earlier period to $170 billion and
revenue by 8.8 percent to $226 million.  Operating expenses declined 3 percent to $182 million as
the firm cut spending on marketing and advertising by 46 percent
to $8.2 million. Employee compensation and benefits, the largest
expense, rose 0.6 percent to $79.9 million.  BlackRock, the world’s biggest money manager, said
yesterday that second-quarter profit climbed 43 percent to $619
million. The New York firm reported a net $15.5 billion in
investor withdrawals while market gains helped assets under
management increase by 0.3 percent to $3.66 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  