-- 
Japanese, Australian Stock Futures Rise on Greece Rescue Plan, Earnings

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-07-21T23:31:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/japanese-australian-stock-futures-rise-on-greece-rescue-plan-earnings.html
Japanese and Australian  stock
futures  rose as a bailout plan for Greece eased concern Europe’s
debt crisis will spread, and after Morgan Stanley and Microsoft
Inc. reported better-than-expected earnings, boosting confidence
in the profit outlook for financial and technology companies.  American depositary receipts of Toyota Motor Corp., the
world’s biggest carmaker, climbed 1.4 percent from the closing
share price in Tokyo. Those of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc., Japan’s largest bank by market value, jumped 1.7 percent.
ADRs of Woodside Petroleum Ltd., Australia’s No. 2 oil and gas
producer, advanced 1.3 percent after crude prices increased to
the highest in more than five weeks.  Futures on the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 10,105 in  Chicago  yesterday, compared with
10,010 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at
10,100 in Osaka, at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 1 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index increased 0.4 percent in Wellington.  “Confirmation there’s going to be more support for Greece
eases concern about the financial system and it gives investors
a little more tolerance for risk,” said Juichi Wako, a senior
strategist at Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.1
percent today. The index rose 1.4 percent yesterday in New York
as European officials announced 159 billion euros ($230 billion)
in new aid for  Greece  to stop the region’s debt crisis from
spreading.  Rescue Fund  Euro-area leaders gave their 440-billion euro rescue fund
the power to buy debt across stressed euro nations after a
market rout and spiking bond yields in Italy and Spain last week
sparked concern the crisis was spreading. The fund can also aid
troubled banks and offer credit-lines to repel speculators.  The euro strengthen to 113.21 against the yen, a level not
seen since July 11, compared with 112.40 at the close of  stock
trading  in Tokyo yesterday, as officials drew concessions from
Germany, the  European Central Bank  and investors for a strategy
to support Greece and ensure its woes don’t spread. A weaker yen
helps Japan’s exporters because it increases the value of
overseas sales.  In the U.S., the  S&P 500  extended gains after the New York
Times reported that President Barack Obama and House Speaker
 John Boehner  were close to a “major budget deal,” boosting
optimism the government will avoid defaulting on its debt.  Jay
Carney , Obama’s spokesman, and Boehner responded to the story by
saying there is no deal.  Morgan, Microsoft  Companies in the U.S. also reported better-than-expected
earnings.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the world’s largest brokerage, posted
a second-quarter loss that was smaller than analysts estimated.
Microsoft, the largest software maker, and Advanced Micro
Devices Inc., the second-biggest manufacturer of processors for
personal computers, both reported profits that beat estimates.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.4 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 6.9 percent by the
S&P 500 and a drop of 1.9 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.6 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.5 times for the S&P 500
and 11 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in  Tokyo  at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 