-- 
Japan Says Number of Cattle Fed With Radioactive Hay Has Doubled

-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 
2011-07-21T06:03:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/japan-says-number-of-cattle-fed-with-radioactive-hay-has-doubled.html
Japan ’s government said the number
of cattle fed with hay contaminated by radiation has doubled,
two days after shipments of beef from cows raised near the
wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant were banned.  As of yesterday there were 1,256 potentially contaminated
cows, said Kazutoshi Nobuto, a spokesman for the Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. The government on July 19
imposed a ban on shipments from Fukushima prefecture north of
the capital after finding 637 cattle were fed hay containing
radioactive cesium. Supermarkets including Japan’s biggest, Aeon
Co., said tainted beef had been sold in  Tokyo  and other cities.  “This is a major, major problem,” said  Goshi Hosono , who
is Japan’s food safety minister as well being in charge of the
response to the Fukushima nuclear disaster. He was speaking at
the Foreign Correspondents’ Club of Japan yesterday.  The cattle ate tainted straw during a feed-supply shortage
after the March earthquake and tsunami. Rice hay produced in
Fukushima prefecture was found to contain as much as 690,000
becquerels, exceeding the 300-becquerel limit, according to the
local government office. The cattle suspected of being fed the
contaminated hay have been shipped to 45 of Japan’s 47
prefectures,  Kyodo News  reported yesterday.  Some beef from the cattle contained cesium exceeding
government standards and was sold to consumers, said Kazuyuki
Hashimoto, an official at the food-monitoring division of the
Tokyo metropolitan government.  Radioactive Decay  A  becquerel  represents one radioactive decay per second,
which involves the release of atomic energy that can damage
human cells and DNA, causing leukemia and other forms of cancer,
according to the  World Nuclear Association .  About 437 kilograms (963 pounds) of beef from a farm in
Minami-Soma city, 30 kilometers from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear station, was eaten in eight prefectures, according to
the Tokyo metropolitan government, which detected the first case
of tainted beef from the farm earlier this month.  Isetan Mitsukoshi Holdings Ltd. today said it had
inadvertently sold beef later found to be contaminated with
radioactive cesium at three of its stores.  A total of 68.2 kilograms of tainted beef was sold at
stores in Shizuoka and Kanagawa prefectures and by a subsidiary
in Tokyo, the company said in a statement on its website today.  Products including spinach, mushrooms, bamboo shoots, tea,
milk, plums and fish have been found to be contaminated with
cesium and iodine as far as 360 kilometers (225 miles) from Dai-
Ichi. Tokyo Electric Power Co., the operator of the Fukushima
station, said on June 14 it found cesium in milk tested near
another nuclear reactor site about 210 kilometers from the
damaged plant.  Japan’s agriculture ministry has also been conducting tests
of fish caught in the waters off the eastern seaboard of the
country and found some contaminated with  radiation .  “So far no contaminated sea products have entered the food
supply channel,” Shouichi Takayama, assistant director at the
Fisheries Agency’s ecosystem conservation office, said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  