-- 
Japan’s Exports Decline Less Than Estimated as Economy Recovers from Quake

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-07-21T02:44:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/japan-s-exports-drop-less-than-estimated-as-economy-recovers-from-quake.html
Japan ’s exports fell less than
economists expected as the decline in auto shipments slowed,
underscoring the recovery of the world’s third-largest economy
from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  Exports decreased 1.6 percent in June from a year earlier,
the slowest fall in four months, the  Finance Ministry  said today.
Shipments increased 5.4 percent in June from May on a seasonally
adjusted basis, the fastest gain since February.  Shipments are recovering as manufacturers such as Toyota
Motor Corp. restore production damaged by a record temblor.
Still, export growth may be threatened by the yen’s gain to a
four-month high against the dollar, a U.S. economic deceleration
and fallout from the European sovereign debt crisis.  “The report showed a recovery in the manufacturing
industry, which means supply constraints are definitely
easing,” said Kohei Okazaki, an economist at Nomura Securities
Co. in  Tokyo . “The strengthening yen may not have an immediate
effect on the export recovery, but in the longer term it may
jeopardize Japanese companies’ competitiveness.”  The yen traded at 78.75 against the dollar at 11:29 a.m. in
Tokyo, compared with 78.86 before the report. It has gained
almost 4 percent in the past three months, and rose to a four-
month high of 78.47 on July 14.  Trade Surplus   The median estimate of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News was for a 4.1 percent decline in overseas shipments. The
slower-than-expected decrease in exports helped Japan
unexpectedly post a trade surplus last month, of 70.7 billion
yen ($898 million), the first in three months.  Economic data so far have underscored the corporate
sector’s rebound from the March disaster. Industrial production
rose at the fastest pace in more than 50 years in May, led by
carmakers. Large companies plan to boost  capital spending  4.2
percent in the fiscal year ending March 2012, more than
economists forecast, the Bank of Japan’s Tankan survey showed.  Toyota Motor, the world’s biggest carmaker, may return to
unrestricted production of all models in October, two weeks
earlier than previously planned, Executive Vice President
Atsushi Niimi said on July 4.  Automobile Exports  Automobile exports decreased 12.5 percent from a year
earlier, the slowest decline since February, according to
today’s report.  Komatsu Ltd., the world’s second-largest construction
machinery maker, said Japanese orders increased more than 30
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, spurred by
reconstruction demand, Chief Executive Officer Kunio Noji said
last month.  The risk for Japan’s export-led recovery is a cloudy
overseas outlook. The U.S. unemployment rate rose to 9.2 percent
in June, the highest this year, as hiring slowed and earnings
stagnated, while manufacturing growth slowed in  China , Japan’s
biggest export market. Investor concern over debt levels in
Italy and  Spain  sent bond yields in those nations to euro-era
records this week.  Economic Recovery  “There’s a high chance that an economic recovery will be
weaker than expected, given the high U.S. jobless rate, the
European fiscal problems, and the yen’s gain,”  Hiroaki Muto , a
senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co. in
Tokyo, said before the report.  Japan’s central bank will take “decisive” policy action
when needed while watching the economy and exchange rates,
Deputy Governor Hirohide Yamaguchi said yesterday. The yen’s
advance could become “problematic” if it becomes a trend,
Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said last week.  Exports to China, Japan’s largest overseas market, rose 1.2
percent in June from a year earlier, the first advance in three
months, the report showed. Exports to  Europe  increased 8 percent,
gaining for the first time since March.  Shipments to the U.S. fell 6.1 percent, the slowest pace of
decline since March. Imports rose 9.8 percent in June from a
year earlier.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has pledged to step down once the
disaster is contained. Political wrangling forced Kan to scale
back a second extra budget for rebuilding to 2 trillion yen,
only half the size of the first one. The magnitude-9 quake and
tsunami in March left more than 20,000 people dead or missing.  Japan’s economy may grow at a 4.3 percent annual pace this
quarter after contracting at 3 percent in the three months
through June, according to the average forecast of 43 economists
in a survey by the government-affiliated Economic Planning
Association released on July 11. The economy shrank 3.5 percent
in the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  