-- 
Japan’s Topix Slips as U.S. Debt Impasse Clouds Exporter Outlook

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 
2011-07-21T07:17:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/japanese-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-amid-u-s-default-concern.html
Japan ’s Topix index fell for the
second time this week as lack of progress in U.S. talks to avoid
a default on the government’s debt eroded confidence in the
world’s biggest economy, clouding the outlook for exporters.  Honda Motor Corp., which counts  North America  as its
largest market, declined 0.6 percent.  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , a maker of
construction equipment that gets about a quarter of its sales in
 China , dropped 0.7 percent after a report mainland manufacturing
may shrink in July for the first time this year.  Maruha Nichiro
Holdings Inc. (1334)  led gains by seafood companies after a report
Japan’s beef contamination has spread.  The Topix fell 0.1 percent to 860.11 at the 3 p.m. close of
trading in Tokyo, with more than two stocks retreating for each
that advanced. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average was little changed
at 10,010.39.  “Until the market sees that the debt ceiling is going to
be raised, the jitters are not going away,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , who helps oversee the equivalent of $18 billion as
chief strategist at Toyota Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo .
“Until we get clarity, markets are going to be unstable.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.3
percent today. The index slipped 0.1 percent yesterday as
concern the government will fail to increase the debt limit
before Aug. 2 overshadowed higher-than-estimated earnings at
Apple Inc.  Divergent Paths  A proposal for a $3.7 trillion debt-cutting plan is facing
resistance from  House Republicans  as lawmakers intensify efforts
for a compromise less than two weeks before a threatened default.
President  Barack Obama  plans to renew talks at the White House
this week with congressional leaders as the Democratic-led
Senate and Republican House pursue divergent paths toward ending
the stalemate.  “Nothing has been decided yet in the U.S., even though the
deadline for raising the U.S. borrowing limit is approaching,”
said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600 million in Tokyo
at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in Tokyo.  Shares of exporters dropped after sales of previously owned
U.S. homes unexpectedly declined in June to a seven-month low,
signaling the housing industry that triggered the U.S. recession
has yet to recover.  Honda dropped 0.6 percent to 3,165 yen.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,
the world’s largest carmaker, declined 0.5 percent to 3,310 yen.
 Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics by
sales, dropped 0.8 percent to 2,077 yen.  China Manufacturing  The yen appreciated to 78.62 against the dollar today, from
79.07 at the close of  stock trading  in Tokyo yesterday. A
stronger yen hurts Japanese exporters because it cuts the value
of overseas sales.  Companies that sell machinery in China declined after a
purchasing managers’ index indicated manufacturing may contract
in July for the first time in a year.  Komatsu sank 0.7 percent to 2,504 yen. Hitachi Construction
Machinery Co., a maker of excavators and cranes that counts
China as its largest market, dropped 0.7 percent to 1,664 yen.  Papermakers declined after Bank of America Merrill Lynch
said domestic paper shipments in June fell 3.7 percent from a
year earlier. Oji Paper Co., Japan’s largest maker of pulp
products and cardboard, lost 2 percent to 393 yen.  Nippon Paper
Group Inc. (3893) , the No. 2, dropped 2.2 percent to 1,780 yen.  Brussels Meet  Banking shares advanced as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  agreed on a joint position
to solve  Greece ’s debt crisis on the eve of a summit convened to
stamp out contagion in European bond markets.  Details will be released today when euro region leaders
meet in Brussels, the governments said in a statement after
seven hours of talks in Merkel’s Chancellery in Berlin. The
discussions also included European Central Bank President Jean-
Claude Trichet and European Union President Herman van Rompuy,
who participated by telephone.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  advanced 1.3 percent to
394 yen.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , Japan’s second-
largest publicly traded bank, gained 0.5 percent to 2,442 yen.  Seafood companies gained after the government said more
Japanese cattle have been contaminated by radioactive cesium,
spurring speculation demand will rise for alternatives to beef.
Maruha Nichiro gained 6.3 percent to 136 percent, the most in
four months. Smaller Tohto Suisan Co. climbed 9.6 percent to 148
yen.  Tainted Meat  The number of beef cattle fed with hay contaminated by
radiation rose to 1,256 by yesterday, Kazutoshi Nobuto, a
spokesman for the agriculture ministry, said today in Tokyo. The
government on July 19 banned beef shipments from areas near the
crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant north of Tokyo, after
finding cattle were fed contaminated hay.  NOK Corp. (7240) , a maker of oil seals and rubber products, surged
11 percent to 1,495 yen, the biggest gain since March 2009. The
company forecast net income will rise 33 percent to 22.1 billion
yen ($280 million) this fiscal year. The company had delayed its
earnings forecast because of damage from Japan’s March 11
earthquake.  “The outlook is unclear in so many different areas:
 Europe ’s debt crisis, the U.S. debt ceiling, Japan’s recovery
from the disaster,” Toyota Asset Management’s Hamasaki said.
“Until these things are cleared up, markets are going to be
unsettled.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 