-- 
Kansai Electric to Shut Nuclear Reactor as Japan’s Power Shortage Worsens

-- B y   A a r o n   S h e l d r i c k   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-07-21T03:57:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/kansai-electric-to-shut-nuclear-reactor-as-japan-s-power-shortage-worsens.html
Kansai Electric  Power Co. will shut
a reactor at one of its nuclear plants, the second of three
being halted this week, worsening shortages that have prompted
Japan to invoke mandatory electricity-saving measures.  The main supplier to Japan’s second-largest economic region
will idle the 870-megawatt No. 4 reactor at its Takahama station
today, according to a maintenance schedule provided by the
operator last week. The utility will start the shutdown later
today and complete the operation by tomorrow, spokesman
Kazushige Maeda said by phone today.  Two-thirds of  Japan’s 54 reactors  are shut down after the
March 11 earthquake caused three meltdowns at the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant in the nation’s northeast. Units closed for
maintenance have been prevented from coming back online by local
officials concerned about the safety of the country’s nuclear
power industry after the disaster.  Japan ’s government will ask customers of Kansai Electric to
reduce electricity use by more than 10 percent, Deputy Chief
Cabinet Secretary Tetsuro Fukuyama said yesterday.  Kansai Electric rose as much as 1.3 percent to 1,460 yen on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange and traded at 1,453 yen at 11 a.m.  The utility faces a shortage of as much as 6.6 percent of
generating capacity in August due to reactor closures, spokesman
Masaki Toratake said on July 17. The company asked customers to
reduce power consumption by 15 percent in June and will continue
requesting cuts by households and businesses in western Japan,
he said.  The national government started requiring heavy users
including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to cut back on electricity
consumption in northern Japan on July 1, marking the first
mandatory power-saving measures since the 1970s. Manufacturers
have changed working hours and shifted production to weekends.  Chugoku Electric Power Co., which planned to sell spare
capacity to Kansai, said earlier it was forced to shut a unit at
its Misumi thermal power station due to a steam leak.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Sheldrick in Tokyo at 
 asheldrick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 