-- 
Koch, Exxon Mobil Among Corporations Helping Write State Laws

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-07-21T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/koch-exxon-mobil-among-corporations-helping-write-state-laws.html
Koch Industries Inc. and  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  are among companies that would benefit from almost
identical energy legislation introduced in state capitals from
Oregon to  New Mexico  to New Hampshire -- and that’s by design.  The energy companies helped write the legislation at a
meeting organized by a group they finance, the American
Legislative Exchange Council, a Washington-based policy
institute known as ALEC.  The corporations, both ALEC members, took a seat at the
legislative drafting table beside elected officials and policy
analysts by paying a fee between $3,000 and $10,000, according
to documents obtained by Bloomberg News.  The opportunity for corporations to become co-authors of
state laws legally through ALEC covers a wide range of issues
from energy to taxes to agriculture. The price for participation
is an ALEC membership fee of as much as $25,000 -- and the few
extra thousands to join one of the group’s legislative-writing
task forces. Once the “model legislation” is complete, it’s up
to ALEC’s legislator members to shepherd it into law.  “This is just another hidden way for corporations to buy
their way into the legislative process,” said Bob Edgar,
president of  Common Cause , a Washington-based group that
advocates for limits on money in politics.  ‘Good Conservative Policy’  Raegan Weber, an ALEC spokeswoman, says the group simply
facilitates the sharing of information and “good conservative
policy.” ALEC’s mission is to promote free markets, limited
government, federalism and individual freedom, according to its
website. “All of our policies are in line with those
principles,” said Weber.  The financing and internal operations of ALEC, which was
founded in 1973, aren’t well known.  Environmentalists, labor unions and Democratic groups that
oppose ALEC-inspired legislation have long claimed that
corporations are behind it, citing the “private sector” member
fees outlined on its website.  As a tax-exempt organization, however, ALEC doesn’t
disclose its corporate donors. ALEC doesn’t reveal its corporate
and legislative members beyond those who serve as committee
chairmen. Its model bills, which now total almost 1,000, are
listed on its website, although their full texts can be called
up only by members.  Bloomberg used tax records, interviews, and ALEC materials
provided by an attendee at an ALEC conference to shed some light
on the organization, which promotes state legislative action
that at times is aimed at undercutting federal government
authority.  Model Legislation  After President  Barack Obama  signed the health-care
overhaul into law, ALEC produced several model bills that have
been introduced by Republican state lawmakers limiting its
reach. The group followed up this year by  publishing  “The State
Legislators Guide to Repealing Obamacare.” The Environmental
Protection Agency is also a target, which reflects a lobbying
priority in  Washington  for some of its corporate donors.  To join ALEC, legislators pay $100 for a two-year
membership. Corporate members seeking to hold sway on
legislative language can pay as much as $35,000 or more to get a
seat on an issues task force. Beyond energy and environment,
ALEC also has task forces devoted to civil justice, commerce,
education, international relations, public safety, taxes and
telecommunications.  Power to Block  If the final language doesn’t turn out the way they like,
industry representatives have the power to block it from being
posted in ALEC’s online library where it can be downloaded by
state lawmakers.  Legislators and private-sector task force members must vote
to endorse any model legislation -- and each group must deliver
a majority before it is officially adopted, Weber said.  Industry advocates can give more money to ALEC by
sponsoring events or simply donating.  At ALEC’s annual meeting in San Diego last year, three
companies -- pharmaceutical manufacturer Allergan Inc.,
telephone giant  AT&T Inc. (T)  and cigarette maker  Reynolds American
Inc. (RAI)  -- each paid $100,000 to be “President Level” sponsors.
Another 11 groups, including  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and the  Institute for
Legal Reform , the U.S. Chamber of Commerce arm that advocates
for jury award limits, wrote checks for $50,000, according to
documents distributed at the meeting that were given to
Bloomberg.  Exxon Money  Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil , through its foundation,
donated $30,000 in 2005 and again in 2006, according to the
foundation’s tax forms.  Alan Jeffers , an Exxon Mobil spokesman,
said the company paid $39,000 in dues last year and sponsored a
reception at the annual meeting in San Diego for $25,000. In
August, Exxon will spend $45,000 to sponsor a workshop on
natural gas, he said.  “We try to provide our views on legislation to anyone who
will listen, including legislators and non-governmental
organizations,” Jeffers said. He said Exxon supports a range of
public policy groups including the Washington-based Center for
Clean Air Policy.  Wichita, Kansas-based Koch was one of 14 “Vice Chairman”
level sponsors at the 2010 annual meeting, which requires a
$25,000 donation to the group, according to the documents.  The
Charles G. Koch Charitable Foundation,  founded by the energy
conglomerate’s chief executive officer, gave $75,858 to ALEC in
2009, the latest year for which the foundation’s tax information
is available.  Koch’s Support  “Koch Industries has been a member and supporter of the
American Legislative Exchange Council for more than two
decades,” said Philip Ellender, the company’s president of
government and public affairs. “As a non-partisan organization
that includes both public and private-sector members, ALEC’s
mission aligns closely with many of the principles to which we
are committed -- economic freedom, limited government and
individual liberty.”  Koch companies, employees, political action committees, and
affiliated non-profit groups spent at least $5 million to help
elect Republicans to Congress in 2010, according to Common Cause
and the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan group that
tracks political donations.  According to the Helena, Montana-based National Institute
on Money in State Politics, Koch entities have given $2.5
million to help elect state lawmakers since 1990. The
institute’s analysis of a partial list of  ALEC  corporate backers
found that their combined giving to state campaigns over the
past decade amounts to $12.2 million. Of that sum, 97 percent
went to Republicans.  Hotels, Meals  Companies can also donate to “scholarship funds,” which
pay for transportation, hotel and meals for lawmakers attending
ALEC meetings.  William Howell, the Republican speaker of the  Virginia 
House, received $2,862 in reimbursements after attending the San
Diego ALEC meeting and a policy meeting in Washington last year,
according to his state ethics disclosures.  Under his leadership in Richmond this year, the Virginia
Assembly passed two ALEC bills that are opposed by labor unions,
one that requires union votes to be by secret ballot and another
that would put the state’s “right to work” law in its
constitution. Both measures died in the state Senate.  Howell also championed the ALEC-originated “Repeal
Amendment,” which would allow states to repeal any federal law
or regulation if two-thirds of the state legislatures vote to do
so. He didn’t respond to a phone message seeking comment.  ‘Opportunity to Connect’  Corporations are “paying for an opportunity to connect
directly with legislators,” said Jeremy Kalin, a former
Democratic Minnesota state representative. “It’s an end-run
around transparency and disclosure laws. Corporate interests
that would otherwise be required to register as lobbyists are
writing legislation behind closed doors.”  An  Oregon  effort to remove the state from the Western
Climate Initiative, a regional carbon cap and trade program,
offers a case study in how the ALEC alliances work together.  Earlier this year, state Representative Kim Thatcher, a
Republican, asked her staff to develop legislation that would
put pressure on Governor John Kitzhaber, a Democrat, to withdraw
from the climate initiative.  A Thatcher aide scrolled through ALEC’s website and found a
model bill that could meet the need and passed it on to her. “I
read it and I said that encapsulates it very well,” Thatcher
said in an interview.  Growth ‘Sacrificed’  The eight-paragraph resolution, which was introduced in
March,  said  “there has been no credible economic analysis of
the costs associated with carbon reduction mandates” and “a
tremendous amount of economic growth would be sacrificed for a
reduction in carbon emissions that would have no appreciable
impact on global concentrations of carbon dioxide.”  The model resolution was adopted by ALEC’s Natural
Resources task force in April 2010, according to minutes from
the meeting obtained by Bloomberg.  The group drafting and endorsing it included 13 legislators
from states including Texas, Kansas and Indiana and 21 private
sector members representing companies such as Exxon Mobil, Koch
Industries and  BP Plc (BP/) , and trade groups including American
Electric Power, the  American Petroleum Institute  and the
American Coalition for Clean Coal Energy.  Koch, a conglomerate that includes oil refineries,
pipelines, chemical producers and paper products,  questions  the
role of carbon in global warming and opposes efforts to put a
price on carbon emissions.  Identical Language  Legislation with the exact same language as Thatcher’s
resolution has been introduced in dozens of other states,
including  Montana ,  New Hampshire ,  Washington , and  New Mexico .
Thatcher’s resolution is still pending.  A member of ALEC since 2004, Thatcher said: “When you get
input from the private sector, and you get input from the public
sector, you can get legislation that can be good for everyone.”  Thatcher’s resolution is one of five  model laws  that ALEC
has in its library related to  climate change  and of 95 that fall
under the Energy, Environment and Agriculture task force.  ALEC has made it a priority to guide state lawmakers in
ways to thwart the U.S. EPA’s efforts to regulate and reduce
 greenhouse gases  -- a goal that coincides with a lobbying
objective in Washington for its energy-industry supporters.  In February, ALEC published a  report  called “EPA’s
Regulatory Train Wreck: Strategies for State Legislators.” The
report urges state lawmakers to adopt resolutions asking their
members of Congress to stop EPA from regulating greenhouse gases
“by any means necessary.”  Assessing Costs  It also directs members to a model bill that would require
states to determine what any regulation would cost for each ton
of carbon emissions reduced, and another model bill that
prohibits a state agency from making any commitments to EPA to
reduce greenhouse gases. As of June, 13 states had adopted
resolutions opposing EPA’s effort to regulate greenhouse gases.  “Our position on EPA regulations is that they’re usurping
the legislative process,” said Weber. “They’ve made these
rules that the states have to follow. It is government through
the federal rulemaking process.”  ALEC critics see the reverse. “It’s national policy at the
state level,” said Adam Schafer, spokesman for the National
Caucus of Environmental Legislators, a Washington-based group
that also encourages state lawmakers to share policy ideas and
legislation. Schafer’s group is funded primarily through
foundation grants and doesn’t accept corporate donations.  Group’s Founders  ALEC was founded by the late Representative Henry Hyde of
 Illinois , a Republican who served in the U.S. Congress for 22
years, and the late political activist Paul Weyrich, who co-
founded the Heritage Foundation, a policy and research
organization in Washington that says its mission is to formulate
and promote conservative policies.  ALEC began writing model bills in the 1990s and says on its
website that about 1,000 pieces of legislation based on its
bills are introduced each year and about 20 percent become law.  Last year, ALEC drafted legislation banning states from
enforcing the new federal health insurance coverage mandate. It
was enacted in 10 states from Virginia to  Louisiana  to  Missouri .  In Missouri, the bill was introduced by its state ALEC
Chairwoman Jane Cunningham. The measure asked for a referendum
to add language to the state’s constitution that read, in part,
“A law or rule shall not compel, directly or indirectly, any
person, employer, or health care provider to participate in any
health care system.”  In Louisiana, the “Health Care Freedom Act” language
said: “relative to preserving the freedom of all citizens of
Louisiana to provide for their own health care; to provide that
no law or rule shall compel, directly or indirectly, any person,
employer or health care provider to participate in any health
care system or health insurance plan.”  Partisan Shift  In last November’s  election , Republicans won from Democrats
more than 675 state legislative seats, and now control both
chambers in 26 states’ legislatures, up from 14 before the
election, according to the National Conference of State
Legislatures.  Former state lawmaker Kalin said the partisan shift is
paving the way for ALEC legislation to advance.  An ALEC model bill was employed a year ago in Minnesota in
an unsuccessful attempt to end that state’s restrictions on
buying electricity from  North Dakota  coal-fired power plants, a
policy aimed at reducing air pollution, he said.  After Republicans took control of the state legislature
this year, lawmakers passed a bill in May allowing the state to
import 1,500 megawatts of electricity from North Dakota,
according to the legislature’s website.  Thousands of Members  ALEC counts more than 2,000 state lawmakers among its
members and says 80 former members now represent their states in
Congress. There are 300 private-sector members, including trade
groups, corporations, policy organizations and non-profits,
Weber said.  In addition to corporations, ALEC events are sponsored by
nonpartisan public policy groups such as The Pew Center on the
States, a group that does research on such issues as elections,
public health and education. It sponsored a workshop at ALEC’s
2010 and 2011 annual meetings on prison-sentencing overhaul.  Weber says the legislators, by virtue of their positions,
have more influence over which bills are included in the ALEC
library, and, even then, it’s their choice whether they bring
them home and put them forward in their own statehouses.  The group provides information to state lawmakers who have
limited resources to learn about all the issues they have to
deal with, she said.  “They make no bones about their policy perspective,” said
Bridgett Wagner, director of coalition relations at the Heritage
Foundation. “They’re certainly a limited-government, free-
market organization and the positions they come out with are not
a surprise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  