-- 
Korea Won Trades Near Three-Year High on Greek Rescue Optimism; Bonds Fall

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-07-21T06:37:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/korea-won-trades-near-three-year-high-on-greek-rescue-optimism-bonds-fall.html
South Korea ’s won traded near its
strongest level in almost three years as optimism European
leaders will break a deadlock over a new Greek bailout bolstered
demand for riskier assets, helping emerging markets draw funds.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy reached a “joint position on Greece’s debt
situation” before a summit today, according to Merkel’s
spokesman. The euro rose to a one-week high versus the greenback.
The won,  Asia ’s best-performing currency of the year, may be
supported before South Korea’s government announces measures to
rein in inflation next week.  “All eyes are on the euro region’s meeting today,” said
Hwang Sun Min, a Seoul-based currency dealer with Kookmin Bank,
the nation’s largest lender. “The won will probably sustain its
upward momentum as the euro’s rebound boosts demand for Asian
currencies.”  The won traded at 1,054.70 per dollar as of the 3 p.m.
close in  Seoul , from 1,055.30 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It has appreciated 6.7 percent this year
and touched 1,053.68 today, the strongest level since August
2008.  The government will announce measures to ease inflation
early next week, the nation’s presidential office said in a
statement yesterday. President  Lee Myung Bak  ordered the
creation of a  task force  to monitor prices and called for a
Cabinet meeting this week to discuss living costs. A stronger
currency may be favored to reduce the price of imports.  South Korea’s benchmark five-year bonds fell for a second
day. The yield on the 4 percent notes due March 2016 rose two
basis points to 3.95 percent, according to prices from Korea
Exchange Inc. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  