-- 
Canada Gave Economic Data Early to Distributors for Six Years, Report Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-07-21T20:15:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/kpmg-report-found-statistics-canada-released-data-early-more-than-6-years.html
Canada ’s statistics agency made
economic data available to distributors before the official
publication time for more than six years, according to a KPMG
LLP report.  “KPMG reported that the early release of up to 59 seconds
had been occurring for more than six years,” a  summary  of the
report published on Ottawa-based Statistics Canada’s website
today said. “KPMG contacted a number of licensed distributors
and concluded that it is unlikely that any data were actively
released to their clients prior to the official release time.”  The KPMG investigation was ordered in December by then-
Industry Minister  Tony Clement  after the agency, Canada’s
primary source of economic information, said it had allowed
distributors to get information before it was released to the
public. The agency stopped the practice on Nov. 25 after being
alerted to it by Bloomberg News.  The report said that  Statistics Canada  had been notified of
similar allegations twice before, in 2004 and 2009. The agency
tightened some security procedures after the 2009 allegations
without conducting a “threat risk assessment” of its “IT
environment” after senior management asked for one, the report
said.  “It is possible the TRA would have uncovered the
weaknesses that allowed for the early release of data, and
possibly could have resulted in the correction of the issue at
that time,” KPMG said.  ‘Necessary Remedies’  “Statistics Canada has put into place policy and business
unit processes to prevent similar incidents,” Industry Minister
Christian Paradis said in a  statement  today. “I expect that
Statistics Canada will take all necessary remedies to ensure the
integrity and security of our national statistical system.”  Peter Julian, a New Democratic Party lawmaker and spokesman
on industry issues, said he is concerned that Statistics Canada
didn’t follow through on the 2004 and 2009 allegations, and
called on Paradis to ensure the problems raised in the report
are addressed.  “The report indicates what needs to happen,” Julian said.
“The question is, is the government capable of follow-up, and I
think, given their past track record, that’s an open question.”  “That’s a very lax answer from the minister and the
department,” said Geoff Regan, a member of Parliament from the
opposition  Liberal Party . “People should be very concerned
about this especially anybody who is involved in the market.”  ‘Fifty-nine Seconds’  Statistics Canada has agreements with 10 distributors,
including Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, which are
licensed to disseminate its data. “Four licensed distributors
appear to have successfully downloaded information from StatCan
prior to the official release time, and StatCan pushed the
information early to two licensed distributors,” the KPMG
report said, without naming them.  “Fifty-nine seconds is an eternity in this business,”
 David Love , a trader of interest-rate derivatives at the
brokerage Le Groupe Jitney Inc. in  Montreal , said via e-mail.
“Now I question all the times I got picked off making markets
before the numbers.”  The review found that the early release was “restricted to
licensed CANSIM distributors who received information via an
automated process that, unknown to management, was set to run 59
seconds in advance,” the report said. The CANSIM database is
the agency’s main warehouse of its figures.  ‘Weaknesses in Governance’  “The review pointed to weaknesses in governance and
processes around dissemination as the reason the situation had
not previously been resolved,” the report said. “The review
made a number of recommendations that Statistics Canada has
accepted and is taking steps to implement.”  Statistics Canada accepts  KPMG ’s recommendations, Lynn Barr-
Telford, Director General of Communications and Information
Services at Statistics Canada, said in a telephone interview.
“We are undertaking a comprehensive and through review” of all
dissemination methods, she said.  “We did take steps towards tightening up” security in past
reviews during 2004 and 2009, she said.  In 2004, a client of one distributor said they were
receiving data up to two minutes before its release time, and
the distributor told KPMG it was receiving data up to five
minutes in advance, the report said. “Following this incident,
StatCan reduced their early release window to one minute,” the
report said.  ‘Not Elevated’  “The matter was clearly not elevated to appropriate levels
of management against policy,” the report said. “If the 2004
matter had been dealt with appropriately, it is likely
information would not have been released before the official
schedule since that time.”  “I don’t think this will leave a big, black mark for
Statistics Canada,” said  Craig Wright , chief economist at Royal
 Bank of Canada , the country’s biggest bank by assets. “The hope
is and the commitment is as they go forward, they won’t make
this mistake again.”  Documents obtained by Bloomberg through freedom-of-
information laws showed movements in the currency before jobs
and inflation reports in April and May of 2009 led traders to
suspect the figures had been leaked. Some traders expressed
their concerns to the Bank of Canada, the documents showed.  Canadian Dollar  Investors use Statistics Canada data to trade bonds, stocks
and the currency, as well as to place bets on the path of
monetary policy. The Canadian dollar is the world’s seventh-
most-traded currency, according to an April 2010 survey by the
 Bank for International Settlements , with daily turnover on
trades against the  U.S. dollar  averaging $182 billion.  The agency’s 10 paying distributors are Bloomberg, the
 Conference Board of Canada , EcoWin AB, Emerging Markets Economic
Data Ltd., FactSet Research Systems Inc., Global Insight Canada
Inc., Haver Analytics, Moody’s Economy.com, Nomura Research
Institute Ltd. and Thomson Financial Investment Management
Group, according to Statistics Canada’s website.  During the hour before publication of most economic
reports, Bloomberg News and other services get advance copies in
a press room at Statistics Canada’s headquarters, under
condition the information isn’t disseminated early. Other
government departments receive copies of the reports the day
before.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 