-- 
Napa Valley Wine Never Cheaper as Buyers Circle Foster’s Spinoff: Real M&A

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-07-22T06:29:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/napa-valley-wine-never-cheaper-as-buyers-circle-foster-s-spinoff-real-m-a.html
Buying Napa Valley wine has never
been so cheap with Treasury Wine Estates Ltd. selling at less
than 80 cents on the dollar.  The world’s second-largest winemaker, which owns Beringer
Vineyards and Stags’ Leap Winery, was spun off by  Foster’s Group
Ltd. (FGL)  in May after it rejected a private-equity buyout for the
unit last year. Treasury Wine has gained less than 3 percent
since the spinoff, giving it a market value of A$2.2 billion
($2.4 billion). That’s 23 percent less than the Melbourne-based
company’s net assets, the biggest discount among makers of wine
or spirits, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings at Treasury Wine, which cost Foster’s at least $8
billion to build, have fallen in the past two reported years as
demand stalled, a global glut of grapes pushed down prices and
the Australian dollar’s rally reduced its operating margin to
the lowest of any producer outside  Japan . Now, with China
helping lead a rebound in worldwide wine consumption, Treasury
Wine this month attracted interest from Bright Food Group Co. in
Shanghai. Its wine inventory alone may be worth at least A$2
billion, Bank of America Corp. estimates.  “It’s got plenty of assets in vineyards, brands and the
like,” said  Theo Maas , a Sydney-based  money manager  at Arnhem
Investment Management, which oversees $5.4 billion and owns
Treasury Wine shares. “A buyer could just ride out what looks
to be the worst of the cycle.”  Relative Value  Rebecca Smith, a spokeswoman for Treasury Wine, declined to
comment, as did Bright Food’s Pan Jianjun.  Treasury Wine, which owns  50 brands , is a collection of
wineries Melbourne-based Foster’s bought in the past two
decades. Helped by the purchase of Beringer Wine Estates
Holdings Inc. in 2000 and the Southcorp Ltd. deal in 2005,
Treasury Wine trails only Victor, New York-based  Constellation
Brands Inc. (STZ)  among winemakers.  Before the spinoff of Treasury Wine, Foster’s rejected an
offer for as much as A$2.7 billion from a private-equity buyer,
saying it “significantly” undervalued the business. Foster’s,
 Australia ’s biggest brewer, didn’t name the suitor.  As a publicly traded company, Treasury Wine’s equity
currently trades at 0.77 times the company’s so-called book
value of A$2.9 billion at the end of December, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The eight other winemakers and distillers
from developed nations with market values of over $1 billion
trade at a median 2.3 times net assets. Constellation Brands,
the owner of the Robert Mondavi Winery and Ravenswood brands, is
valued at 1.7 times, the data show.  Treasury Wine climbed as much as 2 percent in Sydney
trading today, before closing up 0.6 percent at A$3.46.  ‘Screaming Buy’  “From a valuation perspective, it’s a screaming buy,”
said  Martin Schulz , who manages $360 million of international
equities as a senior portfolio manager at PNC Capital Advisors
LLC in  Cleveland . “For companies that are interested in a pure-
play wine business, it makes a lot of sense.”  Treasury Wine had earnings of A$184.6 million before
interest and taxes last reported fiscal year, a 40 percent drop
from 2008, according to a  Foster’s presentation . Including
writedowns from the wine business, Treasury Wine would have had
losses in each of the past three years as a standalone company.  As wine demand rebounds, analysts project that Treasury
Wine’s profit will increase. It earned A$131 million in net
income in the year ended June 30 and will make A$142 million
this fiscal year, estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Global wine consumption, which had been flat since the end
of 2008, will increase 3.2 percent between 2009 and 2014, a
 Vinexpo study  conducted by the International Wine & Spirit
Research showed last month.  Chinese Wine Demand  Wine demand in  China  and  Russia  will lead the recovery
along with the U.S., the study said.  A depreciating Australian dollar may also make Treasury
Wine’s exports cheaper, while increasing the value of its
overseas sales. After surging more than 50 percent since the end
of 2008, the Australian dollar is forecast to weaken to 93 U.S.
cents by 2014, a 14 percent decline from its current rate of
$1.08, foreign exchange forecasts compiled by Bloomberg show.  That may help boost Treasury Wine’s 10.7 percent operating
margin, the lowest of any winemaker or distiller outside Japan.  “If you believe the very strong Australian dollar and the
oversupply in Australia are temporary factors, then this
business can get back to where it was in the past,” said Paul Van Meurs, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Sydney. “What
isn’t built into the market valuation is the potential for the
brands in  Asia  and new markets.”  ‘A Good Place’  That’s lured potential acquirers such as Bright Food,
 Shanghai ’s biggest food and daily producer. The closely held
company is considering a bid for Treasury Wine, two people
familiar with the matter said on July 1.  Treasury Wine, which sells Penfolds Grange at more than
A$600 per bottle and also owns labels such as Chateau St. Jean
and Etude, has inventories worth at least A$2 billion, according
to David Errington, an analyst at Bank of America in  Melbourne .  “It’s a business which doesn’t need a lot of investing at
this point of the cycle,” said Arnhem Investment’s Maas, who
says Treasury Wine may be an appealing buyout target. “It’s a
good place to be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Fenner in Sydney at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 