-- 
NBA Agents Plan to Discuss Decertification With Union Leader

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-07-22T04:00:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/nba-agents-said-to-discuss-decertification-with-union-leader-billy-hunter.html
A number of National Basketball
Association player agents will meet with union Executive
Director  Billy Hunter  today to discuss topics that include
decertification, two people familiar with the situation
said.  Among the agents scheduled to attend the meeting at
 National Basketball Players Association  headquarters in New
York are Arn Tellem, whose agency’s clients include league
Most Valuable Player Derrick Rose of the  Chicago Bulls , and
Mark Bartelstein, who represents David Lee, formerly of the
 New York Knicks  and now with the Golden State Warriors, and
Danny Granger of the  Indiana Pacers .  The people were granted anonymity because they weren’t
authorized to discuss the meeting publicly. Tellem was
traveling and unavailable to comment. Bartelstein and union
spokesman  Dan Wasserman  declined to comment in telephone
interviews.  The NBA locked out its players July 1 following failed
negotiations over how to split money from a league that
generated about $4.3 billion in revenue last season.  Decertification would prevent the union from
collectively bargaining with NBA team owners and allow
players to sue the league under antitrust laws for unlawful
restraint of trade.  The agents and players might push for decertification
for two possible reasons, according to Paul Haagen, who
teaches contracts and sports law at  Duke University  in
Durham, North Carolina.  “Decertification is potentially an expression of lack
of confidence in the existing union and its effectiveness
in negotiation,” Haagen said in a telephone interview.
“Or it is a strategy about unions and collective
bargaining all together, the belief that it might be better
to operate outside of the federal labor laws and have a
much more open labor market.”  Unions Questioned  Tellem, who also represents All-Stars Pau Gasol of the
 Los Angeles Lakers  and Joe Johnson of the  Atlanta Hawks , in
a May New York Times  editorial  said he wondered if some
unions in pro sports have outlived their purpose.  “Pro football players voted to decertify their union
in March immediately before the owners imposed a long-
expected lockout,” Tellem wrote. “Faced with a similar
situation, pro basketball players will almost certainly
follow suit. As a player agent who represents 45 NBA
players, I think they should the moment the current season
ends.”  Both the NBA and union said as the lockout approached
that they preferred to continue negotiating rather than
battle it out in the court system.  That’s what took place in March with the  National
Football League , whose players association dropped its
status as a union after failing to reach its own new labor
agreement with the league. Players then filed an antitrust
suit against team owners, and the league locked the players
out.  Trade Association  The move left the NFL Players Association as a
professional trade association. The two sides continued
negotiations while proceeding with litigation.  Prior to the NBA lockout, in May, the players’ union
filed an unfair labor practice charge with the National
Labor Relations Board, alleging that the league failed to
bargain in good faith. That allegation has yet to be ruled
upon.  Today’s meeting comes on the same day staff members
from both the union and the league are scheduled to
negotiate in  New York  during what will be the 22nd day of
the NBA lockout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  