-- 
News Corp. Gives to Democrats, Spreads June Political Money

-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-07-21T00:04:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/news-corp-gives-to-democrats-spreads-june-political-money.html
The political action committee of
 News Corp. (NWSA) , the embattled media company headed by  Rupert Murdoch , contributed $52,500 to U.S. federal candidates and
party committees in June before reports of a phone-hacking
scandal by the company’s journalists.  The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee received
$15,000, the single biggest donation from the company’s
political action committee during the month. During the first
six months of 2011, News Corp.’s PAC made $128,000 in donations,
compared with $132,200 during the same period two years earlier.  The PAC has traditionally given to both Democrats and
Republicans. For the 2010 elections, New York-based News Corp.’s
PAC gave 58 percent of its $244,200 in candidate contributions
to Democrats, according to the  Center for Responsive Politics , a
Washington-based research group.  A request to News Corp. for comment didn’t receive an
immediate response.  Last year, News Corp. donated $1.25 million to the
 Republican Governors Association  and $1 million to the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, which spent millions last fall primarily
for Republican candidates to Congress. The Republican Governors
Association donation was previously reported by Bloomberg News;
the chamber contribution was reported earlier by Politico.  The company last week disclosed donations from its
corporate treasury, which are distinct from its PAC
contributions, for the first six months of 2011. The corporate
donations totaled $116,000, including $25,000 to the Democratic
Governors Association.  News Corp. is embroiled in a scandal over alleged phone
hacking by the company’s News of the World tabloid in the U.K.
Murdoch closed the 168-year-old paper, and News International
Chief Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks and  Les Hinton , CEO of
the company’s Dow Jones & Co. unit, resigned.  The FBI is looking at whether News Corp. employees tried to
hack the phones of victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks. At least six U.S. lawmakers have asked government
agencies to investigate the company.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristin Jensen in  Washington  at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 