-- 
NFL, Players Ready to Vote on Labor Agreement to End Four-Month Lockout

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-07-21T15:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/nfl-players-ready-to-vote-on-labor-agreement-to-end-four-month-lockout.html
National Football League owners and
players plan to vote today on an agreement to end a four-month
shutdown and allow the U.S.’s richest and most popular sports
league to start play on schedule.  Jeff Pash , the NFL’s chief labor negotiator, said the
league’s labor committee met for five hours yesterday and the
sides were ready to work all night ahead of a league meeting
today in Atlanta.  “We’re going to work cooperatively with them through the
evening and try to have something in place that both sides can
vote on tomorrow morning,” he told reporters in Atlanta. “It’s
obviously a complicated agreement, but I think both sides are at
a point where they can close, they should close, and we should
be in position to take votes.”  The proposed agreement would run for 10 years, Atlanta
Falcons owner Arthur Blank said today.  “That’s great news for the game, great news for both
sides, players and owners as well,” he told reporters prior to
the start of meetings. “We can focus on the game of football
for a very long period of time and not have these distractions
that we’ve had for the past couple years. I’m very happy about
it.”  Jim Irsay, owner of the  Indianapolis Colts , said there was
“some work to do today and it’s going to be an important 24
hours.”  “If we can get this done, it’s going to be an exciting
period of getting ready to play football,” he said.  Players Meeting  Players’ representatives from each team met in  Washington 
yesterday and didn’t see or vote on an agreement, according to a
person familiar with talks who wasn’t authorized to discuss them
publicly. A majority of representatives for the 1,900-member
association need to approve a deal, along with at least 24 of
the 32 clubs.  Kevin Mawae , president of the NFL Players Association, said
players wouldn’t be rushed into approving a new collective
bargaining agreement without understanding all aspects of the
deal.  “There are a lot of issues, a lot of guys who we have to
make sure are happy and feel comfortable with it,” he told
reporters. “There’s a lot of legal stuff that needs to take
place and we all know how long lawyers take.”  Revenue Split  Negotiators for the two sides tentatively have agreed on
terms of a deal that gives players about 48 percent of a
projected 2011 revenue of $9.3 billion, according to three
people familiar with the negotiations who asked not to be
identified because talks are confidential. The salary cap would
be around $120 million, down about $8 million from 2009, the
last year played with a ceiling on spending, the people said.  The agreement would also create a pay scale for rookies and
free-agency rules that allow most veterans to negotiate with any
team after four years, the people said.  NFL owners in March locked out players, who sued in federal
court, led by Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning  and  Drew Brees .  George Atallah, a spokesman for the NFL Players
Association, said on July 18 that players want to settle
multiple legal cases simultaneously. The sides also await a
decision from U.S. District Judge David Doty on a players’ May
claim for $700 million in damages after Doty found the league
unfairly negotiated television contracts.  The NFL and players are trying to reach a deal before
missing one or more rounds of preseason games, which the league
estimates are worth about $200 million in revenue a week.  Training camps for the  St. Louis Rams  and  Chicago Bears  are
scheduled to open tomorrow, with the teams slated to play the
first preseason game Aug. 7 in Canton,  Ohio .  The regular season is scheduled to open Sept. 8 when the
Super Bowl-champion Green Bay Packers host the  New Orleans
Saints .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 