-- 
Nokia Posts Bigger-Than-Expected Loss

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-07-21T15:41:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/nokia-posts-net-loss-as-handset-sales-decline.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the Finnish mobile-phone
maker that’s ceding market share to Apple Inc., reported its
first quarterly loss since 2009 after handset sales slumped
following an accord to shift to Microsoft Corp. software.  The second-quarter net loss was 368 million euros ($529
million), missing the 1.44 million-euro average loss estimate by
analysts. Royalty payments totaling 430 million euros at the
handset unit helped lift the average selling price of each phone
by 2 percent to 62 euros, Espoo-Finland based Nokia said today.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop, who joined from
Microsoft last September, is struggling to sell handsets based
on Nokia’s 10-year-old Symbian software that he is phasing out
as the company prepares new models based on Microsoft’s Windows
Phones. Handset shipments fell 20 percent to 88.5 million units,
missing analysts’ estimate by 7.5 million phones.  “The results were saved by the royalties,” said Michiel Plakman, a  fund manager  at Robeco Group in Rotterdam who helps
manage 9 billion euros and who sold Nokia shares before the
company’s February agreement with Microsoft. “Other than that
it’s still very weak. I don’t see stabilization but I think
there’s some relief that results aren’t weaker.”  Shares Climb  Nokia climbed 10.2 cents, or 2.5 percent, to 4.18 euros at
the close of trading in Helsinki. That pares the stock’s decline
this year to 46 percent, giving the company a market value of
15.7 billion euros.  As part of a June settlement with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  over patent
litigation, Nokia has started receiving royalty payments from
the Cupertino, California-based company.  Nokia forecast the third-quarter margin at the handset
division will be “slightly above breakeven.” The second-
quarter figure was 6.7 percent, helped by royalty income.  “The breakeven margin expected for the third quarter
satisfies consensus,” said Mikko Ervasti, a Helsinki-based
analyst at Evli Bank who recommends buying Nokia shares.  Net cash and other liquid assets declined by 2.5 billion
euros to 3.9 billion euros in the quarter, after Nokia made
payments for its dividend and for assets from Motorola Solutions
Inc. Nokia aims to increase the figure again by the end of 2011.  “We specifically wanted to signal our sense of confidence
around the cash position,” Elop said on a conference call. The
company has identified additional ways to cut costs and raised
its target for expense reduction by 2013 above the 1 billion
euros announced previously, he said.  Once Largest  Nokia became the world’s biggest handset maker in 1998 and
fell behind in smartphones after Apple introduced the iPhone in
2007. Apple sold 20.3 million iPhones in the quarter ended June
25, helping the company to more than double profit to $7.31
billion in the period. By revenue, Apple already surpassed Nokia
in the first quarter as the largest maker of mobile phones.  The market for smartphones, which have computer-like
capabilities for running software and accessing websites, may
grow  55 percent  to 472 million phones this year, according to
market researcher IDC. It expanded  87 percent  last year on
surging demand for cheaper models powered by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android software.  Nokia has revamped Symbian for touchscreens and released
two handsets running an even newer version last quarter,
including one combining a touchscreen and a  Qwerty keyboard .  150 Million Target  In June, Nokia unveiled the N9, a device running on its
six-year-old Linux-based smartphone platform. The handset,
designed by Marko Ahtisaari, the son of a former Finnish
president, was presented as a demonstration of new hardware and
features that will appear in other devices.  Elop has said Nokia will continue selling Symbian devices
and upgrading the software through 2016. He set a target in
February of selling 150 million more Symbian handsets, without
giving a deadline.  Rival Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB, which uses
Android, reported its first loss in six quarters last week.
Chief Executive Officer Bert Nordberg said the feature-phone
market is “collapsing.” Feature phones accounted for about
half of Nokia’s device and services revenues and 81 percent of
unit shipments last quarter.  Android, which is used by dozens of handset vendors from
Samsung Electronics Co. to small producers in China,  passed
Symbian  as the most popular smartphone operating system in the
first quarter, according to figures from Gartner Inc.  Nokia Siemens Networks, Nokia’s phone-equipment venture
with Siemens AG, reported an operating loss of 111 million
euros, even though it added 220 million euros in revenues from
the Motorola assets, said Nokia Chief Financial Officer Timo Ihamuotila.  The venture said last week it will remain under full
ownership of its parents after buyout firms failed to come up
with a compelling offer. Nokia Siemens is struggling to compete
with lower-priced offers from Chinese rivals such as Huawei
Technologies Co. and ZTE Corp.  Nokia last reported a net loss for the third quarter of
2009 after writing down the value of Nokia Siemens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  