-- 
Nokia China Dominance Under Threat as Sales Dive on Android

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-07-22T07:53:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/nokia-s-china-dominance-under-threat.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  isn’t just losing mobile-
phone market share to iPhone maker  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  The Finnish
company’s dominance in China, the world’s largest wireless
market, is being eroded as prices sink.  Nokia’s second-quarter handset shipments in China  fell  to
11.3 million, less than half the previous quarter’s number and
41 percent less than a year earlier. That, combined with a 30
percent drop in European sales, contributed to a greater-than-
estimated 20 percent slump in Nokia’s handset sales worldwide.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop faces the dilemma of
where to focus his resources: Nokia is racing to meet its year-
end target of shipping its first phone based on  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone software. At the same time, he needs to
halt the decline in China as models based on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android software have fallen below 100 euros ($144) and started
cutting into Nokia’s lower-end feature-phone sales, said  Michael Schroeder , a Helsinki-based analyst at FIM Bank.  “They’ve been a clear market leader for many years, but
now it seems that era is coming to an end,” said Schroeder, 
who has a “hold” recommendation on Nokia shares. “I don’t 
think you lead that market with 11 million devices sold.”  At its earnings conference call yesterday, Elop said he had
taken steps to address the build-up of inventory at Chinese
resellers that helped trigger a profit warning in May. The
inventory overhang could have been as many as 5 million
handsets, according to an estimate by Sami Sarkamies, a
Helsinki-based analyst at Nordea.  Inventory Movements  Nokia also replaced managers in China and has named global
sales chief Colin Giles as interim head.  “There is softening of demand but the inventory movements
were substantial,” Elop said. Failing to reverse the sales
decline may endanger the CEO’s plans to sell 150 million
handsets based on Nokia’s Symbian software during the transition
to Windows Phone.  Nokia’s market share in China was 19.1 percent in the first
quarter, compared with 23.5 percent a year earlier, according to
Gartner Inc. estimates. Samsung Electronics Co., the No. 2
vendor, had an 8.9 percent share, said  Carolina Milanesi , an
analyst with Gartner’s Egham, England-based unit.  Operators like China Mobile Ltd. and China Telecom Corp.
are playing a bigger role and Nokia needed to “worry about
market share” and make “aggressive changes,” Elop said on May
31. He had just spent a week in China to look at what changes
were needed there to position for Windows Phone.  ZTE, Huawei  Beijing-based China Mobile had 617 million customers at the
end of June, making it the biggest mobile-phone operator by
subscribers. In China, Nokia competes with local manufacturers
including  ZTE Corp. (000063) ,  TCL Corp. (000100)  and Huawei Technologies Co.  “There are dozens of local competitors making feature
phones, and also manufacturers of Android devices,” Schroeder
said. “The cheap Android phones are stepping on the toes of
Nokia feature phones.”  China has been fertile ground for smaller manufacturers
building handsets around chipsets from  MediaTek Inc. (2454)  and
competing with Nokia on styling and new features such as dual-
SIM slots that let users make calls on different networks. In
the past quarter, Nokia started selling its first dual-SIM
phones in  India  and  Southeast Asia . The handsets are easier to
use without rebooting than rival models, Elop said.  Torchbearer  Apple increased its China revenue sixfold to about $3.8
billion in its third quarter as consumers bought iPhones at  its
stores  to use on networks operated by China Mobile and China
Unicom.  “I firmly believe that we’re just scratching the surface
right now,” Apple Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook  said July 20.  Giles , a 48 year-old Australian engineering graduate,
worked his way up to Nokia’s president of  China  over 15 years,
then added the rest of northeast Asia before joining the
executive team in Espoo. He was promoted to global head of sales
in February when Elop announced the linkup with Microsoft.  A runner and triathlete, Giles carried the  Olympic torch  on
the Great Wall during the Beijing Olympics.  “It makes sense that if you have a guy who’s been
responsible for China earlier and has been successful in the job
and now you have a situation where you need to change
management, he’s probably able to hit the ground running,” said
Sarkamies. “It’s an important job for the company and clearly
one of the pain points for the time being.”  Quarterly Loss  One advantage Nokia still enjoys is that it has one of the
most extensive channel setups in China, working with operators
and at the same time present in the tier 3 and tier 4 cities,
said Gartner’s Milanesi. “They’re down to the small mom and pop
shops,” she said.  Nokia yesterday reported a wider-than-expected net loss of
368 million euros, its second quarterly loss in two years.
Boosting the handset division was 430 million euros in royalty
payments on its patents, including a lump-sum payout from Apple
after the June settlement of lawsuits about the iPhone.  The stock climbed 4.6 cents, or 1.1 percent, to 4.23 euros
as of 10:44 a.m. in Helsinki. It has fallen 45 percent this
year, valuing the company at 15.8 billion euros.  Android, which is used by dozens of handset vendors from
Samsung Electronics Co. to backyard workshops in China,  passed
Symbian  as the most popular smartphone operating system in the
first quarter, according to Gartner. Sandy Shen, a Shanghai-
based Gartner analyst, predicted that Android may account for 50
percent of smartphone share in  Asia  in 2015.  “Android’s now the top operating system in the U.S. and
 Europe  and I think next year it is going to surpass Symbian to
become number one in Asia-Pacific as well,” she told Bloomberg
Television in an interview last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  