-- 
NRC Releases Study of Yucca Waste-Site Application

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-07-22T11:52:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/nrc-releases-study-of-yucca-waste-site-application-1-.html
(Corrects Shimkus’ political party in fifth paragraph of
story published July 21.)  The  Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
released a technical study of the U.S. application for a waste
dump at Yucca Mountain as Republicans demand information on the
halted Nevada project.  The document, prepared by agency staff, is part of the
NRC’s winding down of its review of the license for the Yucca
site, according to an NRC statement today. The 733-page review
“does not include findings as to whether the NRC’s regulatory
requirements have been satisfied,” the agency said in the
statement.  House Republicans have requested that NRC Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  provide e-mails and documents related to the Energy
Department plans to build the waste dump at Yucca Mountain,
about 100 miles (161 kilometers) from  Las Vegas .  Republicans have said Jaczko, a former science adviser to
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , stalled work on the site for
political reasons, which the NRC chairman has denied. Reid, a
Nevada Democrat, has led opposition to Yucca Mountain.  An NRC staff e-mail obtained by the House Energy and
Commerce Committee showed Jaczko or his staff “were involved in
the alteration of the original language,” of the technical
report, according to a July 8 letter to the NRC chairman from
Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican and head of the
committee, and Representative  John Shimkus , an Illinois
Republican. They also want to know if Jaczko used an e-mail
address other than his official NRC account to send or receive
information about the Yucca project.  ‘Where Are Findings’  “Today is an important step for some of the critical work
of the NRC’s career scientists to finally see the light of day,
but where are the findings?” Upton and Shimkus said today in a
statement urging Jaczko to release the “full and uncensored”
safety evaluation. “It is a shame that our nuclear future is
still being dictated by the Obama administration’s political
agenda.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration in 2010 proposed
terminating the Yucca project and sought to withdraw its license
application at the NRC. Although an NRC licensing board rejected
the request, the full commission hasn’t issued a final ruling on
the matter. A federal appeals court said on July 1 it didn’t
have jurisdiction in the controversy, effectively giving the NRC
final say over the future of the nuclear waste repository.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  