-- 
OCC Preemption Rule, SEC ‘Big’ Participants, Taiwan Banks: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-07-21T12:37:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/occ-preemption-rule-sec-big-participants-taiwan-banks-compliance.html
The U.S. agency that oversees
national banks released rules governing when federal regulations
should trump state law, revising language that was faulted for
ignoring the aims of the Dodd-Frank Act.  The  Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ’s  final rules 
aim to eliminate ambiguity by removing language calling for
preemption of state laws that “obstruct, impair or condition”
national bank powers, the agency said yesterday in a statement.
The measure also recognizes the authority of state officials to
bring enforcement actions against national banks to enforce
applicable laws, the OCC said.  Following an initial proposal released in May, the Treasury
Department criticized the OCC’s initial interpretation, saying
it didn’t align with Dodd-Frank’s requirement that preemption
questions be resolved on a case-by-case basis.  The OCC, which operates as an independent bureau within the
Treasury Department, said it will consult with the new Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau before deciding whether to preempt
some state consumer laws. The agency, which officially takes
over the operations of the  Office of Thrift Supervision  today,
said it will apply the preemption standards to federal thrifts.  Compliance Policy  SEC Weighs Approving System to Monitor Biggest Traders’ Activity  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said it will
decide July 26 whether to establish a system to watch the
trading behavior of big market participants including high-
frequency trading firms and  hedge funds .  The system, proposed three weeks before the May 6 crash
that temporarily erased $862 billion in market value of U.S.
shares, would apply to firms that buy and sell at least 2
million shares a day. Traders that execute $20 million of
equities a day or $200 million in a month also would qualify.  Under the plan, the SEC would assign identification codes
to the firms. Non-public data would be available to the SEC the
day after a trade, allowing the agency to investigate
manipulative and abusive practices, according to the proposal
originally released April 14, 2010.  The SEC  said  it also will consider at its July 26 meeting a
rule requiring institutional investments managers to disclose
how they voted in non-binding executive compensation votes that
began this year and re-propose earlier rules related to shelf-
eligibility for asset-backed securities.  Taiwan  Financial Regulator to Ask Banks to Raise Loan Provisions  Taiwan’s financial regulator said it plans to ask banks to
set aside more provisions for loans to strengthen their risk
management systems.  Lenders may be ordered to increase provision ratios on
corporate loans and syndicated loans, Kuei Hsien-nung, director-
general of the  Financial Supervisory Commission ’s banking
bureau, said in a telephone interview in Taipei yesterday,
reiterating comments he made to the Economic Daily News and the
Commercial Times earlier.  Growth in Taiwan’s consumer and housing loans is slowing
after policy makers tightened mortgage lending rules to deter
real-estate speculation, prompting banks to rely on providing
credit to companies to boost earnings. The financial regulator
aims to increase lending costs after some banks offered low
interest rates to unprofitable companies, the Commercial Times
said yesterday.  Compliance Action  Wells Fargo Fined $85 Million for Pushing Subprime Loans  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S. home lender, agreed to
pay a record $85 million fine to settle Federal Reserve claims
it steered borrowers into costlier loans and falsified data in
mortgage applications.  Employees at Wells Fargo Financial, the lender’s consumer-
finance unit, pushed customers who may have been eligible for
prime interest rates into loans carrying higher rates intended
for riskier borrowers, the Fed said in a statement announcing
the settlement yesterday.  The civil penalty is the largest issued by the Fed in a
consumer-protection action, according to the statement. The
accord requires Wells Fargo to re-evaluate qualifications of
borrowers who received a subprime, cash-out refinancing loan
between January 2006 and June 2008. Wells Fargo must compensate
borrowers harmed by the practice, which may exceed 10,000,
according to the statement.  The San Francisco-based bank didn’t admit wrongdoing in
agreeing to yesterday’s action. The Fed also issued consent
orders against 16 Wells Fargo employees that bar them from
working in the banking industry, the regulator said in the
statement.  The company shuttered Wells Fargo Financial in July 2010.
Willis Fined $11 Million by U.K. FSA for Suspicious Payments  Willis Group Holdings Ltd., the world’s third-largest
insurance broker, was fined 6.9 million pounds ($11 million) by
financial regulators for failing to prevent $227,000 in possible
bribes.  The suspicious payments were a portion of 27 million pounds
the company paid “to overseas third parties who assisted it in
winning and retaining business from overseas clients,” between
2005 and 2009, the  Financial Services Authority  said in a
statement today.  Willis is conducting a “past-payment review” and must
report any further findings of corrupt payments to the Serious
Organised Crime Agency, said Sarah Bailey, an FSA spokeswoman.  The  Serious Fraud Office , which prosecutes corruption in
the U.K., didn’t open its own investigation. It discussed the
case “early on” with the FSA and agreed the solution was a
regulatory approach and the FSA took it forward,  spokesman
David Jones said.  Nick Oborne, a spokesman for London-based Willis, declined
to immediately comment on whether the company reported the
payments to the U.S. Department of Justice, which prosecutes
overseas corruption under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  Willis qualified for a 30 percent reduction in its fine
after cooperating with the FSA, the agency said.  Denmark  Wins Ground in Basel Liquidity Spat Over Covered Bonds  Denmark won some ground on persuading the  European Union  to
reconsider liquidity rules set by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  that would have forced a sell-off of the country’s
mortgage bonds.  Denmark’s banks may be able to avoid a cap on mortgage-
backed covered debt holdings set by the Basel committee in
December after the EU agreed to base liquidity assessments on
tests instead of an asset’s class, the Copenhagen-based Economy
Ministry said in a  statement  July 20. Basel’s original proposals
had assigned government debt a higher liquidity status than non-
 government bonds .  The nation has been lobbying the EU to ease the Basel
committee’s liquidity rules in an effort to protect the world’s
third-largest covered-bond market. The country has argued that
the so-called Basel III standards, which require banks to limit
non-government bonds to 40 percent of their liquid assets and
book the debt at 85 percent of its market value, will penalize
nations with small government debt markets.  Without the EU’s changes, Denmark’s covered bond market
would have faced “higher  interest rates  and higher costs for
owning a house in Denmark,” Danske Bank A/S Chief Financial
Officer Henrik Ramlau-Hansen said July 20 by phone.  For more, click here.  HBOS’s Near Collapse Will Get U.K. FSA Review, Turner Says  The U.K.  Financial Services Authority  plans a review of the
near-collapse of HBOS Plc once an investigation into potential
wrongdoing at the lender is complete.  The report will describe the events leading up to the
financial crisis in 2008 which led HBOS to an “unsustainable
position,” and identify “any deficiencies in the FSA’s
regulation and supervision” of the lender, Adair Turner, the
agency’s chairman, said in a letter today to U.K. Conservative
lawmaker  Andrew Tyrie .  HBOS became part of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  in January
2009, in a government-brokered takeover that required more than
20 billion pounds ($32 billion) of taxpayer aid.  The FSA pushed back publication of a similar report on the
2008 bailout of the  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  after a
legal dispute over confidentiality.  A spokesman for Lloyds declined to immediately comment.  Courts  FSA Gets U.K. Freezing Order Against Swiss Asset-Management Firm  The Financial Services Authority won a court order freezing
the U.K. assets of  Da Vinci Invest Ltd. , a Swiss asset-
management firm, in a market-abuse case.  Judge Peter Smith in  London  agreed to extend a previous
freezing order and accepted assurances from the defendants not
to carry out improper activities. FSA lawyer Javan Herberg told
Smith that Unterageri, Switzerland-based Da Vinci Invest and
four individual defendants were suspected of market
manipulation.  Da Vinci provides alternative investment products to
wealthy individuals and institutional investors, according to
its website. The Da Vinci Strategies UI Fund has $3.1 million
under management.  Lawyers for Da Vinci didn’t attend the hearing. The firm
said yesterday it was not at fault for actions carried out by
third parties.  “We funded some Hungarian traders who traded on the London
stock exchange and the FSA has the opinion that they broke some
rules,” Hendrik Klein, the chief executive officer of Da Vinci
said by phone. “We controlled their risk but we didn’t know
exactly how they traded.”  The case is The Financial Services Authority v. Da Vinci
Invest Limited & Ors, 11-02409.  For-Profit Colleges Sue to Block ‘Gainful Employment’ Rule  Rules designed to cut off federal aid to institutions whose
students struggle the most to repay government loans were
challenged by an organization representing for-profit colleges.  A lawsuit attacking so-called gainful employment measures
was filed yesterday in federal court in  Washington  by the
 Association of Private Sector Colleges and Universities , or
APSCU. The rules set benchmarks that educational programs must
meet to remain eligible for government grants and loans, which
can constitute as much as 90 percent of their revenue.  For-profit colleges allege the standards “emerged out of a
notoriously flawed regulatory process” and are premised upon
incomplete and unreliable data that will punish programs for
“outcomes achieved by students” before the regulations were
adopted.  The Department of Education exceeded its statutory
authority when it issued the gainful employment regulations,
Brian Moran, the association’s interim president and chief
executive officer, said in an e-mailed statement.  Congress and state attorneys general are investigating
education companies’ recruitment practices and use of government
aid, which totaled $30 billion last year. The regulations seek
to ensure that for-profit college graduates get jobs that allow
them to repay student loans.  Justin Hamilton, a spokesman for the Education Department,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail message seeking comment.  The case is Career College Association v. Duncan, 11-
cv-01314, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Barney Frank, Shelley Moore Capito Comment on Dodd-Frank  U.S. Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat
and co-author of the Dodd-Frank Act, talked about the future of
the financial regulatory overhaul legislation and outlook for
confirmation of  Richard Cordray  as head of the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau. Frank said that while he is
concerned about underfunding of the Dodd-Frank regulations, the
act is not in danger of repeal.  U.S. Representative Shelley Moore Capito, a West Virginia
Republican, who also talked about Dodd-Frank, said she believes
that while the transparency brought about by the overhaul law
was positive, some aspects of it burdened business with too many
costs and there will be a “chipping-away” of Dodd-Frank. She
also talked about Cordray’s nomination.  Capito spoke with Lisa Murphy on Bloomberg Television’s
“Fast Forward.” Frank spoke on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness With Margaret Brennan.”  For the Frank video, click here.  For the Capito video, click here.  Wolin Says Global Regulators Will Create ‘Level Playing Field’  U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin said global
regulators will create a “level playing field” for financial
rules because major economies share the same objectives.  “It’s not in the interests of any country to have a weak
financial system and to be the source of global risk,” Wolin
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television yesterday. “We
think that we will get a level playing field.”  The U.S. has been a global leader by approving the Dodd-
Frank financial overhaul law and will try to ensure that “the
rest of the world comes along with us so that we all have a
strong, stable financial system,” Wolin said. Dodd-Frank’s one-
year anniversary is today.  “I think there’s been very good agreement among the
leadership” of the Group of 20 nations on objectives for a
regulatory framework, Wolin said. “I think we’ve made a lot of
progress in our discussions globally.”  For video of Wolin’s interview, click here.  Schapiro, Bernanke to Testify on Dodd-Frank Anniversary  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission will delay
rules for the derivatives markets and will have only a
“skeleton crew” tracking hedge funds if it doesn’t receive a
2012 budget increase, Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said.  “The new responsibilities assigned to the agency under the
Dodd-Frank Act are so significant that they cannot be achieved
solely by wringing efficiencies out of the existing budget,”
Schapiro said in testimony prepared for a hearing of the  Senate
Banking Committee  on the anniversary of Dodd-Frank enactment
today.  Citing its many new duties under Dodd-Frank, Schapiro
requested a $1.4 billion 2012 budget for her agency after a 2011
budget debate resulted in a $74 million increase to $1.2
billion. A budget bill crafted by  House Republicans  would keep
the SEC at its current spending level next year.  In the SEC’s new responsibility to oversee security-based
swaps, Schapiro said, market participants will face “further
delays and uncertainty” without more staff to process
registration requests. A “handful of staff” would monitor 750
advisers to hedge funds and private-equity funds.  Separately,  Federal Reserve  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said
the central bank will in the coming months propose regulations
on the oversight of systemically important financial
institutions.  “The Federal Reserve expects to issue proposed rules on
the oversight of SIFIs later this summer” and is “on
schedule” with other banking agencies to implement the Basel
III bank- capital requirements , Bernanke said in testimony
prepared for today’s hearing that was posted on the Fed’s
website.  Bernanke, who will appear with other bank-agency chiefs,
said the Fed is committed to making rules that “promote the
sound extension of credit in the service of economic growth and
development.”  “We must not lose sight of the reason that we began this
process: ensuring that events like those of 2008 and 2009 are
not repeated,” Bernanke said. “Our long-term economic health
requires that we do everything possible to achieve that goal.”  At the same Dodd-Frank hearing, Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. Acting Chairman Martin J. Gruenberg will tell lawmakers
that banks deemed too big to fail must hold additional capital
requirements to cushion any losses during a failure and minimize
any reliance on the government for bailouts.  Comings and Goings  Warren Calls on Democrats to Fight House Bill to Change CFPB  Elizabeth Warren , the Treasury Department and White House
adviser assigned to set up the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, told House Democrats they must keep fighting for the
agency as it begins operations.  Warren made the remarks yesterday to Democrats before a
meeting on the Dodd-Frank Act in House Minority Leader Nancy
Pelosi’s office.  Warren’s comments came a day before the Republican-led
House is scheduled to consider a bill to make changes to the
leadership structure and oversight of the bureau. Republicans,
who almost unanimously opposed the Dodd-Frank Act last year,
have pushed to restrict the agency’s authority.  The consumer bureau officially begins work today, exactly
one year after President Barack Obama signed Dodd-Frank into
law. Obama announced on July 17 that he had chosen Richard
Cordray, the former Ohio attorney general, as his nominee for
director of the bureau.  Republican lawmakers have argued for replacing the director
position with a five-member board and lowering the threshold for
bank regulators to veto the bureau’s rules.  Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama, the senior Republican on
the  Banking Committee , told reporters July 19 that Cordray’s
nomination to head the bureau would likely be stalled “unless
there are some fundamental changes in its structure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 