-- 
Tom Newberry Said to Leave Credit Suisse Leveraged Finance Markets Group

-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 
2011-07-21T15:35:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/tom-newberry-said-to-leave-credit-suisse-leveraged-finance-unit.html
Tom Newberry, global head of
leveraged finance capital markets at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , is
leaving the bank, the company said today in a memo to employees.  David Miller  will be the new head of global leveraged
finance capital markets and underwriting and will report to Phil DeSantis and Eraj Shirvani, co-heads of global credit products,
according to the memo. Newberry, 49, joined Credit Suisse’s
predecessor Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette in 1996.  The changes at the third largest underwriter of U.S.
leveraged loans comes as sovereign-debt concerns and a weak  U.S.
economy  have brought prices of the high-yield, high-risk debt
under pressure. The bank has agreed to underwrite Apax Partners
LLP’s $6.3 billion takeover of  Kinetic Concepts Inc. (KCI) , the
biggest leveraged buyout since Lehman Brothers Holding Inc.’s
collapse in 2008.  Credit Suisse has become the third largest arranger of U.S.
leveraged loans this year, up from fourth last year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Year-to-date, Credit Suisse has
arranged $30.2 billion of the debt, for a 7.7 percent market
share, up from $12.8 billion and 6.4 percent in the similar
period last year, the data show.  For both time periods Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. were the largest underwriters of U.S. leveraged
loans, according to the data.  Falling Prices  The Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Loan 100 Index, which
tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged
loans, fell 0.94 cent in June -- the largest monthly fall since
May 2010 -- and the index has dropped 1.81 cents since Feb. 14
when it hit a high for the year.  Bank of America, Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley are
providing $4.95 billion of debt to back Apax’s buyout of
Kinetic, the San Antonio-based company said in a July 14
regulatory filing.  Credit Suisse reported a 45 percent drop in first-quarter
profit on lower earnings at the investment bank and a charge
related to its debt, the firm said April 27. The bank will
announce second-quarter earnings July 28.  Miller joined Credit Suisse in 1997 and most recently was
co-head of the syndicated loan group, Americas and co-head of
leveraged finance capital markets, Americas.  Separately, Brent Patry is the sole head of leveraged
finance capital markets, Americas, reporting to Miller,
according to the memo. Bob Franz is the head of credit trading,
Americas, reporting to DeSantis and Shirvani. Franz and Miller
will continue as co-heads of syndicated loans, Americas.  Katherine Herring, a New York-based spokeswoman for Credit
Suisse, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Bravo in  New York  at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 