-- 
Lone Star’s Ex-Korea Chief Detained as Local Bank Stake Sale Hits New Snag

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-07-22T01:03:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/lone-star-s-former-south-korea-chief-detained-as-keb-sale-hits-fresh-snag.html
Lone Star Funds ’ former South Korea
chief was taken into custody on concern that he may flee as a
court battle threatening to derail the sale of its stake in
 Korea Exchange Bank (004940)  escalated with a constitutional challenge.  Paul Yoo should be detained while he, Lone Star and Korea
Exchange Bank are tried again on stock-price manipulation
charges, Seoul High Court judge Cho Kyung Ran ordered yesterday.
Seoul-based Korea Exchange Bank asked the court to determine
whether the law it was charged under is constitutional, Cho said.  The developments may prolong legal proceedings that are
preventing regulators from approving  Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790) ’s
planned purchase of the lender from Lone Star. Hana and Lone
Star this month agreed to extend the deadline for the sale of
the 51 percent stake until the end of November and lower the
purchase price by 6 percent to 4.4 trillion won ($4.2 billion).  “The ongoing legal saga implies that Hana’s deal may not
get regulatory approval this year,” Lee Byung Gun, an analyst
at Dongbu Securities Co. in  Seoul , said by telephone. “Hana is
caught between a rock and a hard place, making investors ignore
its cheap valuations.”  Korea Exchange Bank confirmed it asked the Seoul High Court
to seek the Constitutional Court’s opinion in an e-mailed
response to Bloomberg News, without elaborating.  Hana Financial wants the court case to be resolved soon,
spokesman Lee Jung Dae said by telephone yesterday. He declined
to comment on Korea Exchange Bank’s appeal.  False Rumors  The Seoul High Court began a retrial of Yoo on June 16
after the country’s top court in March overturned a 2008
acquittal. The  Supreme Court  asked it to reconsider whether Yoo,
Korea Exchange Bank and Dallas-based  Lone Star ’s local unit
broke stock trading rules.  Prosecutors have said Yoo spread false rumors of a possible
capital reduction at Korea Exchange Bank’s card unit to drive
down the unit’s stock price in 2003 to merge it cheaply.  Hana Financial rose 4.1 percent to 40,550 won at 9:59 a.m.
in Seoul trading, paring its losses this year to 6.3 percent.
Korea Exchange Bank gained 1.1 percent and the 61-member Korea
Financial Industry index climbed 1 percent.  “While uncertainty remains whether Hana can complete this
takeover, some people seemed to think the Lone Star may be
convicted by the court soon, which might force regulators to
order it to sell its KEB stake,” Hong Hun Pio, an analyst at
KTB Investment & Securities Co. said. “That speculation
together with a cheap valuation is driving shares today.”  If Lone Star is found to be not a lawful owner of Korea
Exchange Bank, regulators can order it to reduce its stake to 10
percent or less within six months, according to local rules.
Hana Chairman Kim Seung Yu said in May he would still buy Korea
Exchange Bank shares if Lone Star is ordered to shed the stake.  The Seoul High Court will hold its next hearings on Aug. 11
and Aug. 18, with closing arguments planned for Aug. 25, judge
Cho said yesterday. A ruling date wasn’t announced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  