-- 
Honeywell Accuses U.S. of Misconduct in False Claims Suit Over Body Armor

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-07-21T17:28:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/honeywell-accuses-u-s-of-misconduct-in-false-claims-suit-over-body-armor.html
Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  accused
the U.S.  Justice Department  of withholding “critical” evidence
in a false claims lawsuit alleging the company used defective
materials in body armor the government bought.  Honeywell, alleging misconduct, asked a federal judge in
 Washington  yesterday to sanction department lawyers for
sponsoring “inaccurate and misleading” testimony contradicted
by documents that the government delayed turning over to the
company.  “We believe the  Department of Justice  has violated federal
discovery rules by failing to properly search for, produce and
preserve evidence that would exonerate Honeywell,” Peter Dalpe,
a spokesman for Honeywell, said in an e-mail. “We continue to
believe there is no factual or legal basis for the Justice
Department’s claims, and we will continue to vigorously defend
ourselves.”  Charles Miller , a Justice Department spokesman, declined to
comment.  The U.S. sued the  Morris Township , New Jersey-based company
in 1998, claiming it “possessed a wealth of scientific data”
showing that the so-called Zylon Shield material used in body
armor degraded “quickly over time,” especially in hot and humid
conditions. Honeywell failed to tell the government or the
vests’ manufacturer about the problem, the U.S. said.  Law Enforcement Agencies  The vests were bought by federal, state and local law
enforcement agencies, the Justice Department said in its
complaint. The U.S. paid more than $20 million for the vests,
according to court papers.  Earlier this month, U.S. District Judge Richard Roberts
rejected Honeywell’s request to dismiss the case.  The company’s filing yesterday alleges Justice Department
lawyers misled Honeywell by claiming on at least four occasions
that the “vast majority” of documents requested by Honeywell
had been turned over to the defense.  Honeywell claims that from October 2010 through April, more
than 120,000 additional documents were found by the government.
The documents contain material that undermines the Justice
Department’s fraud accusations, Honeywell claims.  “These documents show Honeywell informing the  United
States  of ‘environmental effects’ in high heat and humidity
testing of Z Shield, asking for guidance from the government on
how to test the product, and repeatedly offering to share test
data and technical expertise with government researchers,”
Honeywell said in the motion.  Armor Holdings Inc., which manufactured the Zylon vests,
said in 2005 it would cease production. BAE Systems Plc,
 Europe ’s largest arms company, bought Armor Holdings in 2007 for
$4.53 billion. In October 2008, Armor Holdings agreed to pay $30
million to resolve allegations involving the vests.  Safety concerns about the vests first arose in 2003.  The case is U.S. v. Honeywell International Inc., 08-cv-
00961, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 