-- 
OPEC Exports Rise From Middle East on Demand, Oil Movements Says

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-07-21T15:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/opec-exports-rise-from-middle-east-on-demand-oil-movements-says.html
Oil exports from the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries’  Middle East  members are rising
ahead of a boost in seasonal demand from  Asia , according to
tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  Supplies from the Middle East will increase 1.9 percent to
17.78 million barrels a day in the four weeks to August 6, the
Halifax, England-based researcher said today in a report. That
compares with 17.44 million barrels in the period to July 9. The
data include non-OPEC members Oman and Yemen.  “There’s real evidence that volume is going up for crudes
from the Middle East,” Roy Mason, Oil Movements’ founder, said
by telephone from Halifax. “Refinery runs will go up in Asia in
August,” spurring demand for OPEC crude, he said.  Shipments from all OPEC members, excluding  Ecuador  and
Angola, will rise to 23.05 million barrels a day in the four
weeks to August 6, according to Oil Movements estimates. That’s
up 1.6 percent from 22.69 million in the month to July 9.  “We’re running into the peak season for Middle East
demand, meaning that more crude will be retained domestically”
among producers, Mason said.  Crude on board tankers will average 486.37 million barrels
in the four weeks, down 0.3 percent from 487.84 million in the
period to July 9, the researcher said.  Oil Movements calculates shipments by keeping a tally of
tanker-rental agreements. Its figures exclude crude held on
board ships as floating storage.  Daily supply from the 11 OPEC members bound by quotas was
27.31 million barrels a day last month, the  International Energy
Agency  said in its monthly oil market report on July 13. That
compares with 26.51 million in May.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait,  Libya , Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. Iraq is exempt from the quota system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  