-- 
Morgan Stanley Shares Surge Most in Two Years

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-07-21T16:06:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/morgan-stanley-second-quarter-loss-beats-estimate-as-trading-revenue-rises.html
Morgan Stanley rose the most in more
than two years in  New York  trading after reporting a second-
quarter loss that was smaller than analysts estimated and the
only gain in trading revenue among major U.S. banks.  Morgan Stanley climbed as much as 9.1 percent after posting
a net loss of 38 cents a share, smaller than the 61-cent average
estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. A $1.7 billion
charge tied to the conversion of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc.’s preferred stake in the New York-based firm caused the
loss, which compared with profit of $1.09 a year earlier.  Trading revenue rose 14 percent from the first quarter,
while Goldman Sachs Group Inc. posted a 47 percent drop earlier
this week. The results may help  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Chief Executive
Officer  James Gorman , 53, convince investors the firm can reach
his goals of increasing profitability and gaining market share
in trading. The firm’s shares are trading below book value, and
this week touched the lowest level since March 2009.  “So far as confidence in management and their ability to
deliver, delivering good fixed-income results is not only a good
bottom line victory, but from a symbolic standpoint it goes a
ways toward calming investor fears,” Jeffery Harte, an analyst
at Sandler O’Neill & Partners, said today in an interview with
Bloomberg Television.  The shares climbed $1.91, or 8.8 percent, to $23.63 at
11:42 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the
biggest jump since May 1, 2009, and the third-largest gain in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  ‘Very Impressive’  “Morgan Stanley really knocked the ball out of the park,”
 Jason Tyler , senior vice president at Ariel Investments LLC,
said today in an interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Radio.
“This is a very impressive quarter from a revenue standpoint.”  The stock was down 20 percent this year through yesterday,
after falling 8.1 percent in 2010. That made it the fourth-worst
performer in the 81-company Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials
Index since Gorman took over at the beginning of 2010.  Mitsubishi UFJ last month converted $7.8 billion of
outstanding convertible preferred stock in Morgan Stanley into
common stock. The move provides Mitsubishi UFJ with a 22 percent
ownership interest in the U.S. investment bank and a second seat
on its board.  Morgan Stanley agreed in April to increase the number of
common shares Mitsubishi UFJ will receive by 75 million to speed
up the conversion and eliminate $784 million in annual dividend
payments.  Fixed-Income Goal  Revenue at Morgan Stanley climbed to $9.28 billion from
$7.96 billion a year earlier, the highest since the end of the
financial crisis. Book value per share fell to $30.17 from
$31.45 at the end of March. Net income was $1.19 billion, versus
$1.96 billion in the same period of 2010.  “While global markets remained challenging this quarter,
the firm delivered higher year-over-year revenues across our
three major business segments,” Gorman said in the statement.  In the second quarter, revenue from fixed-income sales and
trading, which is run by Ken deRegt along with commodity trading
co-heads Colin Bryce and Simon Greenshields, was $2.09 billion.
That compared with $1.77 billion in the first quarter and $2.33
billion in the second quarter of 2010.  Excluding gains or losses from its own credit spreads,
fixed-income revenue was $1.9 billion, higher than estimates of
$1.5 billion from Richard Staite at Atlantic Equities LLP and
$1.57 billion from  Keith Horowitz  at Citigroup Inc. Fixed-income
trading revenue was $4.28 billion at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , $3.03
billion at Citigroup and $1.6 billion at Goldman Sachs.  Bond Insurers  Fixed-income trading benefited from $471 million of gains
in the second quarter attributed to hedges against exposure to
bond insurers, Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said on a
conference call today.  Morgan Stanley reported $318 million in losses in the first
quarter and more than $1 billion in total losses since the start
of 2010 related to the monoline insurers. The hedges were
adjusted in the second quarter and otherwise would have resulted
in more losses, Porat said.  Commodity trading revenue declined “meaningfully” in the
quarter as client volume decreased, Porat said. That decline
served to “really mask the relative progress” in the other
fixed-income trading units in “difficult” markets, she said.
The firm’s daily average value-at-risk, a measure of how much it
could lose in the markets, rose to $145 million from $121
million in the first quarter.  Gorman’s Goal  Gorman in February laid out a goal of increasing fixed-
income revenue market share by 2 percentage points, with Colm Kelleher, co-head of the firm’s investment bank, leading the
effort. The firm had a market share based on revenue of about
6.5 percent among the top nine U.S. and European investment
banks last year, up from about 5.5 percent in 2009, according to
an April report by  Glenn Schorr , a Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst.  “The reason we’ve set a 2 percent market share goal and
think that’s a reasonable first goal to set for ourselves is
that market share is relatively low for this franchise,” Porat
said today in an interview. “We’re regaining a share which
would be a logical share on this platform, and I think that
context is important. It gives us a little bit of a tailwind,
even in a tougher market.”  Goldman Sachs declined 0.7 percent on July 19 in New York
trading after fixed-income trading revenue fell 63 percent from
the first quarter. JPMorgan exceeded estimates last week as it
posted trading revenue that topped all other major U.S. banks by
more than $1.5 billion. Both companies are based in New York.  Equities Trading  In equities trading, headed by Ted Pick, Morgan Stanley’s
second-quarter revenue rose to $1.85 billion, from $1.70 billion
in the first quarter and up 31 percent from a year earlier. The
unit’s revenue compares with $1.92 billion at Goldman Sachs and
$1.22 billion at JPMorgan.  Morgan Stanley generated $1.47 billion in second-quarter
revenue from  investment banking , which is overseen by Paul J. Taubman. That figure, up 66 percent from a year earlier,
included $533 million from financial advisory, $419 million from
equity underwriting and $521 million from debt underwriting.  Global  wealth management , led by  Greg Fleming , posted
pretax income of $322 million, up from $207 million in the
second quarter of 2010. The division’s pretax profit margin fell
to 9 percent from 10 percent in the first quarter. Gorman has
said the unit should eventually post a pretax profit margin of
more than 20 percent.  Improve ‘Soon’  “Margins must improve and do so soon,” Gorman said on the
call. Fleming and Chief Operating Officer Jim Rosenthal are
analyzing “what else we really need to do to get ourselves
faster to the finish line. So we are taking an aggressive relook
at the back end of some of the integration steps,” he said.  Asset management reported a pretax gain of $165 million,
compared with a loss of $86 million in the previous year’s
period.  Morgan Stanley’s Tier 1 common ratio was about 14.6 percent
under Basel 1 and between 6.5 percent and 7 percent under Basel
III rules, Porat said on the conference call today. The firm
expects its required buffer from being a systemically important
financial institution to be 2 percent and plans to run closer to
the 9 percent level sooner than required, she said.  Compensation and benefits increased 20 percent from the
year-earlier quarter to $4.68 billion, or 50 percent of the
firm’s overall revenue. The ratio was higher than in the second
quarter of 2010, when the bank set aside 49 percent of revenue.  China  Venture  Morgan Stanley’s expenses included a $130 million charge
tied to a joint venture in China with Huaxin Securities Co. that
began operations in June. Morgan Stanley established the venture
after selling its 34.3 percent stake in China International
Capital Corp. last year.  Morgan Stanley was the second-ranked adviser on mergers
announced in the first half of this year, as well as the third-
ranked underwriter of stock offerings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The firm finished 2010 as both the top
underwriter of equity offerings and the top adviser on announced
mergers and acquisitions globally for the first time since
Bloomberg began compiling data in 1999.  Morgan Stanley bought a controlling stake in a joint
venture with Citigroup’s Smith Barney unit in 2009, giving it a
retail brokerage with 17,638 advisers and $1.71 trillion in
client assets as of June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  