-- 
Morgan Stanley Tops Goldman for First Time in Investment Banking, Trading

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-07-21T22:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/morgan-stanley-investment-banking-debt-trading-top-goldman-for-first-time.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s second-quarter
revenue from both  investment banking  and fixed-income trading
beat  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s for the first time on record.  Fixed-income trading generated $2.09 billion for Morgan
Stanley and investment banking brought in $1.47 billion, while
Goldman Sachs reported $1.6 billion and $1.45 billion,
respectively. New York-based Morgan Stanley has never
outperformed its larger rival in both those businesses
simultaneously in the 11 years it’s reported fixed-income
trading results, company filings show.  Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 53,
benefited as his firm took more risks while Goldman Sachs, led
by Lloyd C. Blankfein, 56, pulled back. Morgan Stanley rose the
most yesterday in more than two years on the New York Stock
Exchange after reporting a second-quarter loss smaller than
analysts estimated. Goldman Sachs dropped as much as 3 percent
after profit missed estimates on July 19, before paring that
decline.  “It’s unusual to see them going in opposite directions,
 Jason Tyler , senior vice president at Ariel Investments LLC,
said yesterday in an interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg
Radio. “Usually you’ll see investment banking as a whole
trending in one way.”  Both stocks have fallen more than 20 percent since the
start of 2010 through yesterday, as Goldman Sachs faced
regulatory probes and Morgan Stanley’s profitability lagged
behind behind its rivals. Goldman Sachs recovered faster from
the financial crisis, posting record profit in 2009 while Morgan
Stanley had its first annual per-share loss as a public company.  Value at Risk  Morgan Stanley’s average value-at-risk, or VaR, a measure
of how much it could lose in the markets in a single day, rose
to $145 million from $121 million in the first quarter, while
Goldman Sachs’s fell to $101 million from $113 million.  Goldman Sachs attributed the plunge in its own fixed-income
trading during the quarter to the firm’s decision to curb risk
to the lowest level in almost five years because traders were
struggling with market movements driven by political
developments. David A. Viniar, the New York-based firm’s chief
financial officer, said he didn’t think clients were abandoning
Goldman Sachs.  “Volumes were lower, but they weren’t a lot lower, which is
why I tell you that we don’t think that there’s any impairment
of our franchise,” he told analysts on a conference call on
July 19.  Price Swings  The firm wasn’t as good at handling price swings and
changes in trading volumes during the quarter as in the past,
with the biggest problems occurring in commodities, credit and
the U.S. mortgage business, Viniar, 56, said. While revenue
declined, none of the businesses lost money, he added.  “We didn’t manage the market-making inventory that we get
as well as we have in the past,” Viniar said, referring to
securities or derivatives that the firm holds on its books to
help facilitate client trades. “It was especially true in
Europe and  Asia , where many of these macro political concerns
existed.”  Morgan Stanley increased VaR in  interest rates , equities
and foreign exchange, and cut VaR in commodities. While VaR fell
late in the quarter, the higher levels show more “traction”
with clients, CFO Ruth Porat, 53, said on a conference call.  Clients expect the firm to have “a point of view” and
back that up by taking risk and committing capital to make
markets, Porat said. “The volumes that you saw coming off of
the first quarter persisted for a good part of the second
quarter.”  VaR Reversal  Morgan Stanley’s VaR was 44 percent higher than Goldman
Sachs’s in the second quarter, marking a reversal from the first
half of 2009, when Goldman Sachs’s was more than twice its
smaller rivals. Goldman Sachs has decreased its VaR for eight
straight quarters.  Fixed-income trading at Morgan Stanley also benefited from
$471 million of gains in the second quarter attributed to hedges
against risks tied to bond insurers, Porat said on the call.
Excluding those gains, as well as gains and losses related to
changes in the firms’ own creditworthiness, Morgan Stanley had
lower fixed-income trading revenue than Goldman Sachs.  “This is a very volatile business, obviously, as Goldman
showed this quarter,”  David Hilder , equity research analyst at
Susquehanna Financial Group LLP, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “If Goldman goes back to normal trading levels,
they’ll still be 50 to 100 percent larger in fixed-income
trading than Morgan Stanley is.”  New Structure  Goldman Sachs changed the way it reports fixed-income
trading results this year and revised its figures as far back as
the fourth quarter of 2009. It moved the special situations
group, which had reported within the fixed-income division, to a
new unit called investing and lending.  Gorman in February laid out a goal of increasing fixed-
income revenue market share by 2 percentage points. Morgan
Stanley’s share based on revenue was about 6.5 percent among the
top nine U.S. and European investment banks last year, while
Goldman Sachs had about 13.4 percent, according to a note last
month from Fiona Swaffield, an RBC Capital Markets analyst.  “The reason we’ve set a 2 percent market share goal and
think that’s a reasonable first goal to set for ourselves is
that market share is relatively low for this franchise,” Porat
said yesterday in an interview. “I think that context is
important. It gives us a little bit of a tailwind, even in a
tougher market.”  While Goldman Sachs reported higher equity trading, it did
so by $63 million, the smallest margin since at least the fourth
quarter of 2009, the first period for which it has provided
figures under its new reporting structure.  Merger Advice  Investment banking has been a much closer battle. Morgan
Stanley has been the top merger adviser in each of the last two
years, with Goldman Sachs in second both years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That broke an eight-year streak of
Goldman Sachs as the top adviser, the data show.  Morgan Stanley’s investment banking revenue, up 66 percent
from a year earlier, included $533 million from financial
advisory, $419 million from equity underwriting and $521 million
from debt underwriting. Goldman Sachs’s figures were up 54
percent and consisted of $637 million from advisory, $378
million from equity underwriting and $433 million from debt
underwriting.  Both firms lagged  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Bank of America
Corp., which posted investment-banking revenue of $1.92 billion
and $1.64 billion, respectively. Those firms’ results were
largely driven by more than $800 million in debt underwriting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  