-- 
Mortgage Rates for U.S. Loans Little Changed Near Year’s Lowest Levels

-- B y   A s h w i n   S e s h a g i r i
-- 
2011-07-21T14:02:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/mortgage-rates-in-u-s-little-changed-near-this-year-s-low.html
Mortgage rates  in the U.S. were
little changed, keeping borrowing costs close to the lowest
level for the year as talks dragged on for an agreement to
extend the federal debt limit.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan increased to 4.52
percent in the week ended today from 4.51 percent, according to
Freddie Mac. The average 15-year rate rose to 3.66 percent from
3.65 percent a week ago, the McLean, Virginia-based company said
in a statement.  President  Barack Obama  and Congress are under pressure to
reach a deal before Aug. 2 to increase the amount of money the
government can borrow. Investor concern that the U.S. credit
rating may be downgraded spurred volatility in stock and bond
markets this week. Yields for 10-year Treasuries, a guide for
some consumer loans, including mortgages, held below 3 percent.  “Investors have swallowed a lot of recent bad news,”
 Patrick Newport , an economist at IHS Global Insights in
Lexington,  Massachusetts , said in a telephone interview. “I
guess the market just doesn’t believe that we’re going to shoot
ourselves in the foot by having the government default.”  Demand for homes is constrained by stricter lending rules,
an  unemployment rate  above 9 percent and a glut of distressed
properties that’s dragging down values. Sales of previously
owned U.S. homes dropped 0.8 percent to a 4.77 million annual
pace, a seven-month low, the National Association of Realtors
said yesterday.  Mortgage applications rose in the week ended July 15 for
the first time in a month, driven by homeowners seeking to
reduce their monthly payments. The  Mortgage Bankers
Association ’s refinancing index jumped 23 percent, while the
purchasing gauge was little changed, the Washington-based group
said yesterday.  The rate for a 30-year fixed loan is below where it was
last year at this time, when it averaged 4.56 percent, according
to  Freddie Mac . It fell to a record 4.17 percent in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashwin Seshagiri in New York at 
 aseshagiri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  