-- 
Dodgers Judge Expected to Rule on Who Will Bankroll Team in Bankruptcy

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-07-21T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/los-angeles-dodgers-judge-puts-off-ruling-on-who-will-fund-team-bankruptcy.html
The  Los Angeles Dodgers  may learn
today whether the team can borrow $150 million from a unit of
JPMorgan Chase & Co., or must accept a loan from  Major League
Baseball , which has battled the club since it filed bankruptcy
last month.  After listening to the Dodgers and MLB argue yesterday
about who should loan the team the money it needs to reorganize,
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington, Delaware, said
he will issue a written decision by tonight.  “To me this is about dollars and cents,” Gross told the
two sides.  In a court hearing that lasted almost 10 hours, the league
contended its loan would cost less, while the Dodgers claimed
they should not be forced to accept financing from MLB because
of Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig ’s disagreement with the team
and its owner  Frank McCourt .  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy last month after Selig
rejected a proposed cable-TV rights deal McCourt negotiated with
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports. The team intends to try to sell those
rights while in bankruptcy and will propose rules for marketing
them next month, Bennett said.  Bruce Bennett , an attorney for the Dodgers, said the team
can’t trust MLB to be its banker. Bennett cited two letters from
baseball financial officials to the Dodgers in which the
commissioner’s office backed out of a deal about how the team
should account for $14 million in rent it pays on Dodgers
Stadium to a company controlled by McCourt.  Conflict of Interest  Baseball attorney  Tom Lauria  said McCourt should not be
allowed to pick JPMorgan’s Highbridge Capital Management LLC as
the team’s lender because the Dodgers’ owner had a conflict of
interest early in the company’s bankruptcy case, when Highbridge
was given temporary permission to loan the team $60 million.
McCourt would have been forced to pay $5.25 million to
Highbridge should another lender win permission to make that
loan.  While searching for the best deal for a bankruptcy loan,
the Dodgers contacted at least seven lenders other than
Highbridge, Dodgers Assistant Treasurer Jeffrey Ingram said
while testifying about the Highbridge loan. Those lenders
included Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Time Warner Cable Inc., Bank
of America Corp., Colony Capital LLC and General Electric
Capital Corp. and a financing company associated with the family
of Disney Co. founder  Walt Disney  called Shamrock, Ingram said.  The Dodgers ultimately picked Highbridge as the lender,
Ingram said.  Under cross examination by baseball attorney Glenn Kurtz,
Ingram said that many of the terms in the proposed baseball loan
were “better” than the Highbridge loan.  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 