-- 
Los Angeles Yields Decline as California Sales at 11-Year Low: Muni Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-07-21T13:38:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/los-angeles-yields-decline-as-california-sales-at-11-year-low-muni-credit.html
Los Angeles, which is selling $380
million in debt today, may benefit from demand for  California 
bonds with long-term issuance at the lowest since 2000.  Issuers in the state sold less than $13 billion in bonds
from Jan. 1 through yesterday, compared with $27 billion in the
same period in 2008, before the Build America Bonds program,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. California, which has
the lowest credit rating of any state from  Standard & Poor’s  and
is typically the largest issuer of municipal debt in the U.S.,
hasn’t sold any general-obligation bonds in 2011 as legislators
debated solutions for a $26 billion deficit.  “The state’s moratorium on debt issuance is benefiting the
local issuers,” said Gary Pollack, who helps oversee $12
billion as head of bond trading at Deutsche Bank AG’s private-
wealth management unit in  New York . “They’re selling into a
market that is aching for California tax exemption.”  Los Angeles, the second-most populous U.S. city, sold $117
million July 19 in a related sale. The section of bonds rated
AA- and maturing in 2021 yielded 2.95 percent, 17 basis points
below an index of bonds with the same rating and maturity,
Bloomberg data show.  “We did really well,” City Administrative Officer Miguel Santana said in an e-mail. Earlier this month, Santana said the
city was able to raise $1.2 billion in short-term notes at 0.26
percent, its lowest rate on record.  Closing Deficits  States and local governments, which avoided taking on debt
earlier this year as they enacted plans to close deficits,
returned to market with almost $9 billion in sales this week,
Bloomberg data show. That compares with a weekly average of $4
billion in the year’s first half, the lowest since at least
2003.  California is considering seeking a bridge loan ahead of an
Aug. 2 deadline for raising the federal debt ceiling, in case
talks fail, Treasurer Bill Lockyer said last week.  Proceeds from the loan would be used to help pay the
state’s bills until Lockyer can sell an estimated $5 billion of
so-called revenue-anticipation notes, or RANs, scheduled for
late August. Without those notes, the state could run out of
cash as it did in 2009, when it issued $2.6 billion of IOUs.  Facing Deficit  Los Angeles  faces an almost $200 million deficit for the
2013 fiscal year and projected pension and salary increases for
city employees totaling $479 million through 2015, Eric Hoffmann
and Dari Barzel, analysts for Moody’s Investors Service, said in
a report July 12. Moody’s downgraded $3.3 billion in Los
Angeles’ debt, including today’s sale, to Aa3, the fourth-
highest investment grade, which is on par with other ratings
companies.  The premium investors demand to hold an AA rated Los
Angeles general obligation bond maturing in September 2021 over
an index of top-rated tax-exempt debt of the same maturity
narrowed to 74 basis points July 12, compared with 118 basis
points Jan. 3, Bloomberg data show. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Kelly Wine, executive vice president of Encino, California-
based RH Investment Corp., said Los Angeles pricing has been
“extremely aggressive,” and her firm likely will trade this
week’s bonds in the secondary market. RH does 85 percent of its
business in California issues, she said.  ‘Sitting on Money’  “There’s not much to choose from,” she said. “This kind
of sale just lends itself to the institutional buyers. I know
they’ve been sitting on money.”  San Francisco ’s Public Utilities Commission, also in
California, is set to issue $775 million this week.  Los Angeles will use proceeds from the $117 million sale to
clean up waterways and beaches and refinance older securities,
in a move approved by voters in a 2004 ballot measure. Today’s
$380 million sale will refund prior issues.  “We need the funds for our projects; we have 12 in
construction,” Natalie Brill, the city’s chief of debt
management, said in an e-mail. She said a desire to get payments
on the taxpayer-financed bonds also played a role in the
decision to sell now. “We need to get on to the assessor’s
property-tax bill and that is due by mid-August.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah Frier  in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  