-- 
House Backs Bill to Reshape Consumer Bureau on Its First Day

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-07-21T23:27:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/house-backs-bill-to-reshape-consumer-bureau-on-its-first-day.html
The U.S. House passed legislation
that would restructure the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
and give bank regulators more power over its rulemaking, casting
a pall over the new agency’s first day of independence.  The Republican-led House passed the bill 241-173 today on
the one-year anniversary of the Dodd-Frank Act, the financial
regulation law that created the consumer bureau as a cornerstone
of Wall Street oversight. Among voting Republicans, who almost
unanimously opposed the bureau’s creation, all but one voted for
the bill. They were joined by 10 Democrats.  “I’m a realist and this is law,” RepresentativeShelley Moore Capito, a West Virginia Republican, said of the bureau
today. “This is now a part of our government, and my chore is
to try and make it better.”  President  Barack Obama  proposed the bureau and House and
Senate Democrats pushed for it in response to a subprime
mortgage crisis that regulators and lawmakers say was fueled in
part by predatory lending. Democrats have criticized Republicans
efforts to reshape the bureau as a Wall Street-backed effort to
undermine consumer protections.  “Instead of supporting the CFPB on its first day, the
House Republicans are pushing forward with a bill to weaken this
important agency and to delay, de-fang and derail it,” said
Representative Carolyn Maloney, a New York Democrat.  Republicans have countered that the bureau, which doesn’t
receive its funding from Congress, lacks proper oversight in its
current form and has the power to threaten the safety and
soundness of the financial institutions it oversees.  Five-Member Board  The Republican bill, sponsored by Wisconsin Representative
Sean Duffy, would replace the bureau’s director position with a
bipartisan five-person board, lower the threshold for banking
regulators to veto rules and delay the transfer of full
authority until after a director is confirmed.  Obama has threatened to veto the legislation, which is
likely to be rejected by the Democrat-led Senate before it has a
chance to reach his desk.  House Republicans  have begun
discussions with the Senate in an effort to move the bill
forward, according to Capito, who leads a Financial Services
subcommittee the oversees the consumer bureau.  Senate Republicans have vowed to block any nominee for the
director position until changes are made to the leadership
structure, funding and oversight. Obama nominated  Richard
Cordray , the former Ohio attorney general now serving as the
bureau’s enforcement chief, for the director post on July 18.  Shelby Threat  Senator  Richard Shelby , the senior Republican on the Senate
Banking Committee, was joined by 43 of his colleagues in the
threat to block the nomination. The Senate, under procedural
rules, would likely need 60 of the chamber’s 100 senators to
support a nomination for it to move forward.  The push for changes is backed by industry lobby groups
including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the  American Bankers
Association  and the  Independent Community Bankers of America .  “The CFPB was given a single director, without the board
and the diverse viewpoints and experiences requested by the
administration,” Jess Sharp, executive director of the
Chamber’s Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness, wrote in a
blog post today. “We agree that a board or a commission leads
to more balanced, less political decision-making.”  Consumer advocates, meanwhile, attacked the Republican
effort as a way to short-circuit the new bureau.  “The CFPB is set to begin work today as the cop on the
financial beat protecting American consumers and the economy
from Wall Street greed,” Americans for Financial Reform, an
umbrella group of consumer advocates, civil rights lawyers and
labor unions, said in an e-mail asking supporters to lobby their
lawmakers to vote against the bill. “And sure enough, financial
industry special interests are waging an all-out attack to stop
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  