-- 
Athenahealth, Coinstar, McDonald’s, Verizon: U.S. Equity Preview

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   T a y l o r
-- 
2011-07-22T13:17:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/hp-informatica-microsoft-skyworks-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of 8:48 a.m. in  New York .  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)   surged 9.4 percent to
$7.11.  The second-largest maker of processors for personal
computers forecast third-quarter sales that exceeded analysts’
estimates, citing orders for new chips. The company also had its
stock rating raised by analysts at Wells Fargo & Co. and
Canaccord Adams Inc.  Athenahealth Inc. (ATHN)   jumped 9.4 percent to $53.13.
The provider of Internet-based services for physician practices
said it earned 22 cents a share excluding some items in the
second quarter, beating the average analyst estimate by 20
percent.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)   dropped 6.1 percent to $104.85.
The world’s largest maker of construction and mining equipment
posted second-quarter earnings that missed the average analyst
estimate after the Japanese earthquake and tsunami reduced sales
and demand slowed in  China .  Cepheid Inc. (CPHD)   climbed 11 percent to $35. The maker
of a rapid test for drug-resistant staph infections increased
its earnings-per-share forecast for the fiscal year to as much
as 11 cents a share, beating the average estimate of 5 cents a
share by analysts.  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR)   fell 8.8 percent to $53.50. The
operator of the Redbox film-rental kiosks said preliminary
second-quarter revenue rose to $434 million to $436 million,
falling short of analysts’ projections of $445.6 million. Mitch
Lowe resigned as head of the Redbox unit, from which Coinstar
gets 85 percent of its sales.  C.R. Bard Inc. (BCR US) fell 8.2 percent to $103.45. The
maker of surgical specialty products forecast third-quarter
adjusted earnings per share of $1.61 a share at most, less than
the average estimate of $1.62 a share by analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  Cymer Inc. (CYMI)   dropped 5.8 percent to $43.95. The
supplier of lasers used to create semiconductor chips forecast
third-quarter revenue of $130 million, less than the average
analyst estimate of $156.3 million.  Dover Corp. (DOV)  : The maker of chips used in cars and
consumer electronics forecast 2011 earnings per share of as much
as $4.60 a share, more than the average estimate of $4.52 a
share by analysts.  Flextronics International Ltd. (FLEX)  : The supplier of
cameras and battery chargers for  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   said first
quarter adjusted earnings per share were 21 cents a share,
missing the 22 cent average estimate of analysts. The company
also said it may buy back up to $200 million of its outstanding
shares.  General Electric Co. (GE)   increased 1.5 percent to
$19.44. The world’s largest maker of power-generation equipment
posted an 18 percent jump in second-quarter profit as a rebound
at the finance unit blunted slumping prices in the energy
business. It said operating earnings per share were 34 cents a
share, beating the average estimate by analysts of 33 cents a
share.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  : The world’s largest maker of
personal computers said it will buy back an additional $10
billion of its outstanding shares.  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  : The maker of
controls for planes and buildings said second-quarter earnings
per share from continuing operations were $1 a share, beating
the average analyst estimate of 98 cents, bolstered by demand
for coolants at its chemical specialty unit and spare parts in
the aerospace division.  Informatica Corp. (INFA)  : The corporate-software company
reported second-quarter earnings per share of 33 cents excluding
some items, beating the average analyst estimate of 31 cents.  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)   rose 2 percent to $88.30. The
world’s largest restaurant chain said second-quarter earnings
per share were $1.35 a share, beating the average analyst
estimate of $1.28, as more consumers dined out and the McCafe
line of beverages boosted sales.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  : The world’s biggest software
maker reported fourth-quarter profit and sales that exceeded
analysts’ predictions as it benefited from robust demand from
corporations and a lower-than-expected  tax rate .  News Corp. (NWSA)   fell 1.9 percent to $16.16. U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  said Deputy Operating Officer  James
Murdoch  still has questions to answer to parliament over the
hacking of phones by reporters at the News of the World. The
company has “got some big issues to deal with,” he said in an
interview with  BBC television .  Ruby Tuesday Inc. (RT)   dropped 11 percent to $9.94. The
casual-dining chain forecast first quarter earnings of 6 cents a
share at the most, less than the average analyst estimate of 20
cents. It was cut to underperform at  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)   increased 3 percent to $93.65.
The world’s largest oilfield-services provider said second-
quarter net income rose 64 percent as increasing crude prices
drove more U.S. onshore drilling. Operating earnings were 87
cents a share, beating the average analyst estimate of 85
cents‘.  Skyworks Solutions Inc. (SWKS)  : The wireless
semiconductor company forecast fourth-quarter revenue to be $400
million beating the average analyst estimate of $371.3 million.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  : The largest U.S.
wireless provider reported second-quarter earnings 57 cents a
share, excluding some items, beating the average analyst
estimate of 55 cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Taylor in New York at 
 vtaylor6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  