-- 
Hurricane Dora Strengthens Off Mexico as Storm Cindy Intensifies

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-07-21T09:45:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/pacific-hurricane-dora-intensifies-tropical-storms-in-atlantic.html
Dora, a major hurricane in the
eastern Pacific, may strengthen off  Mexico  today. In the
Atlantic, Tropical Storm Cindy intensified and Bret weakened.  Dora, a Category 4 hurricane on the five-step Saffir-
Simpson scale is expected to strengthen today before weakening
tomorrow, the  U.S. National Hurricane Center  said in an  advisory 
issued at 2 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time.  The hurricane was located about 265 miles (426 kilometers)
south of Cabo Corrientes, Mexico, and was heading northwest at
13 miles per hour.  Maximum sustained winds increased to near 140 miles per
hour with hurricane-force winds extending outward 40 miles, the
center said. Mexico’s government has discontinued a tropical
storm watch for its southwest coast from Lazaro Cardenas to Cabo
Corrientes as the storm moves offshore.  A storm gets hurricane status when winds reach 74 miles per
hour. A category 4 hurricane has sustained winds of 131 to 155
miles per hour. A system becomes tropical when it develops
cyclonic activity and becomes a named storm when sustained winds
reach 39 miles per hour.  In the Atlantic, Tropical Storm Cindy was about 975 miles
east-northeast of  Bermuda  and is gathering strength as it moves
northeast at 28 miles per hour with top winds near 60 miles per
hour, the center said in a separate  advisory . Cindy poses no
threat to land and should weaken in a day or so when it hits
colder water, the NHC said.  Bret, the second named storm of the  Atlantic hurricane
season , may become a tropical depression by today, the center
 said . Winds have dropped to 40 miles per hour from 45. The
system was 260 miles east-southeast of Cape Hatteras,  North
Carolina , and moving northeast at 8 miles per hour.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  