-- 
Pandora Says Mobile-User Growth Outpacing Demand for Ads, Raising Concern

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-07-22T20:39:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/pandora-says-mobile-user-growth-outpacing-demand-for-ads-raising-concern.html
Pandora Media Inc. Chief Executive
Officer Joe Kennedy said the streaming-radio service isn’t
finding enough advertisers to buy all the space created by
mobile-phone users, underscoring concerns about its ability to
convert popularity into revenue.  “The sheer level of aggregate advertiser demand for mobile
is limited,” said Kennedy, 51. “Pandora is one of the top five
players in mobile, so we generate a lot of inventory and are
ahead on where aggregate demand is for mobile advertising.”  The online-radio company, which held its initial public
offering last month, is getting most of its growth from users of
mobile devices, such as smartphones and tablet computers. Sixty
percent of Pandora listening comes from the mobile market, up
from just 12 percent two years ago, according to the company.  Pandora isn’t profitable, with losses of $92 million since
2000, the Oakland, California-based company said earlier this
year. Pandora’s costs continue to grow because of higher
licensing fees for the rights to music. Increasing mobile ad
sales will be needed to help offset those expenses, said Rich Tullo, an analyst at Albert Fried & Co. in  New York .  “They’re in a tight spot right now,” said Tullo, who
recommends selling Pandora shares. “If your content costs are
going to accelerate, then the management and monetization of
your ad inventory is mission-critical in becoming a profitable
company.”  IPO Rebound  When Pandora’s stock made its June 15 debut on the New York
Stock Exchange, it joined a wave of Internet businesses going
public this year. Pandora’s shares fell 55 cents, or 2.9
percent, to $18.21 at 10 a.m. on the New York Stock Exchange,
and earlier dropped as much as 4.9 percent to $17.85. Before
today, the stock had climbed 17 percent since the IPO.  Pandora generated $119.3 million last year from
advertising, or 87 percent of its sales, and another $18.4
million from subscriptions to an ad-free version of the service
and other revenue sources.  Brands such as Anheuser-Busch InBev NV’s Budweiser, Yum
Brands Inc.’s Taco Bell and A&E Television Networks LLC’s
History Channel have run ads targeting Pandora’s mobile users.
In all, marketers will spend $2.55 billion on mobile ads in
2014, according to New York-based research firm EMarketer Inc.
That’s more than double the $1.1 billion in spending this year.  In the long run, Pandora stands to gain from advertiser
interest in mobile, said James Boyle, an analyst at Gilford
Securities Inc. in New York.  Gradual Shift?  “As advertising demand on the Internet keeps surging and
the logical ad demand for the explosive mobile-device universe
also dramatically increases, the supply-demand equation should
consequently shift, long term in Pandora’s favor,” Boyle said
in an e-mail. He has a “hold” rating on shares of Pandora.  While Pandora already competes with Sirius XM Radio Inc., a
subscription-based satellite-radio service, it may face a bigger
challenge from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and other established technology
companies, which are investing in their own online-music
offerings.  Startups such as San Diego-based Slacker Inc. and San
Francisco-based Rdio Inc. also offer music through the Internet.
CBS Corp.’s Last.fm competes in the market as well.  Much of the growth from mobile advertising will come from
small businesses looking to reach prospective customers when
they’re nearby, said  Rich Greenfield , an analyst at BTIG LLC in
New York. Pandora has more experience selling ads to bigger
brands and may not be equipped to reach those smaller, local
businesses, he said.  “They don’t have a sales force to sell local ads the way
your local radio station does,” said Greenfield, who recommends
selling the stock. “We think it’s one of the biggest problems
of the story.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 