-- 
Military Brass Approve Lifting of Ban on Gays

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-07-22T04:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/panetta-mullen-to-clear-lifting-of-u-s-military-s-ban-on-gays.html
Top Pentagon officials plan to
announce today their decision to certify lifting the ban on gays
serving openly in the armed forces, two defense officials said.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  and Admiral Mike Mullen,
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, are ready to certify that
the armed forces are prepared for the change and that it won’t
harm military readiness, said the officials, who weren’t
authorized to discuss the decision publicly before the
announcement.  President  Barack Obama  signed legislation into law in
December to repeal the prohibition, called “Don’t Ask, Don’t
Tell,” 60 days after the Defense Department drafts a plan for
putting the new regulations in place and Obama and Pentagon
officials certify that the shift wouldn’t harm recruitment,
retention or readiness.  Obama is scheduled to meet with Panetta and Mullen this
afternoon.  Repeal of the 17-year-old ban fulfills a campaign pledge by
Obama, who said the prohibition was a violation of civil rights.
The shift is among a number of changes the administration has
made, including at the State Department, to ease rules and
regulations on government employees that discriminate based on
sexual orientation.  Months of Training  The military services have conducted months of training and
officials have said the certification was imminent. General
James Amos, the Marine Corps commandant, had recommended against
repeal during wartime in congressional testimony in December,
while then-Army Chief of Staff General George Casey and Air
Force General Norton Schwartz said the change would pose a
“moderate” risk to military effectiveness.  Organizations that advocated for repeal of the ban argued
that the armed services are deprived of troops with critical
military skills and potential recruits.  “It’s a rare moment when we can both strike a victory for
national security and also for civil rights and the meaning of
American citizenship, and certification is one of those historic
moments,” said Aaron Belkin, director of the Palm Center, a
research institute at the  University of California  at  Santa
Barbara  that studies sexual minorities in the military.  Repeal will be welcomed by gay and lesbian soldiers who
have “had to serve their country in silence for far too long,”
said Aubrey Sarvis, an Army veteran and director of the
Servicemembers Legal Defense Network.  McCain’s Criticism  Republicans including Arizona Senator  John McCain , who
leads his party on the Armed Services Committee, criticized the
change.  “Repeal is a fait accompli,” Belkin said in a telephone
interview. “The public supports it, the military supports it
and the president supports it, and frankly there’s nothing the
Republicans can do about it.”  Rhode Island Democrat Jack Reed, also a member of the
Senate Armed Services Committee and a former Army Ranger, said
the ban, which dates to President  Bill Clinton ’s administration,
is “outdated.”  “I am pleased our civilian and uniformed military
leadership is finally eliminating this barrier to service,”
Reed said in a statement. “Our military is stronger because of
the diversity of our troops.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  