-- 
Paraguay Reaches Copa America Soccer Final Without Winning a Single Match

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-21T12:20:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/paraguay-beats-venezuela-in-penalty-shootout-to-reach-copa-america-final.html
Paraguay  beat  Venezuela  5-3 in a
penalty shootout to reach its first Copa America soccer final in
32 years without having won a single game at the tournament.  Dario Veron scored the winning kick in Mendoza, Argentina,
after Venezuela’s Franklin Lucena earlier had his penalty saved
by Paraguay goalkeeper Justo Villar. The teams finished 0-0
after extra time in a match that went past midnight local time.  First-time semifinalist Venezuela had a goal disallowed for
offside and hit the goal frame three times, while Paraguay had
Jonathan Santana red carded in extra time and held on to secure
a place in the July 24 title game against Uruguay.  “It’s not that we have been practicing penalties, we’ve
been rather lucky,” Villar said in a televised interview.  Two-time champion Paraguay qualified for the final of  South
America ’s continental championship having drawn its three group
games and needing penalty kicks to get past Brazil and Venezuela
in the quarterfinals and semifinals following scoreless ties.  Venezuela, which had never made it to the final four in 14
previous attempts, was closest to breaking the deadlock in
regulation in Mendoza.  Oswaldo Vizcarrondo had a 35th-minute header disallowed for
offside and Alejandro Moreno headed against the crossbar in the
43rd minute. Villar saved Salomon Rondon’s follow up.  The Venezuelans twice struck Villar’s right-hand post in
the opening five minutes of extra time, first by Nicolas Fedor
and then by Juan Arango.  Man Down  Paraguay went down to 10 men when Santana received his
second caution three minutes before the extra-time break.
Although Venezuela used its numerical advantage to push forward
in the final period, it couldn’t produce a goal.  After five successful spot kicks, Villar dived low to his
right to keep out Lucena’s penalty and give Veron, who had never
scored a goal in open play for his country, the chance to send
Paraguay to its first final since 1979.  Uruguay, which shares the record of 14 championships with
 Argentina , beat Peru 2-0 two days ago. Of the region’s top four
teams in FIFA’s world rankings, only No. 18 Uruguay made the
semifinals of the 12-nation tournament, following up its fourth-
place finish at last year’s  World Cup  in  South Africa .  The final will be played at the Estadio Monumental in
 Buenos Aires . The match to decide the third and fourth place
teams, a meeting of Peru and Venezuela, takes place in  La Plata 
on July 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  