-- 
Pemex Fills Sovereign Void With $1 Billion Bond: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-07-21T21:12:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/pemex-filling-sovereign-void-with-1-billion-bond-offering-mexico-credit.html
Petroleos Mexicanos , the largest oil
producer in Latin America, is tapping the overseas  bond market 
for the second time this year as a decline in government
issuance fuels demand for debt sold by state-owned companies.  The yield on the company’s dollar bonds maturing in 2021
fell to 4.66 percent this week, the lowest since Nov. 12,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The securities yield 82
basis points more than similar-maturity Mexican government
notes, down from 89 a month ago.  Brazil ’s state-controlled oil
company Petroleo Brasileiro SA is paying a yield premium of 81
basis points, or 0.81 percentage point, above government debt
maturing in 2020.  Investors seeking to buy Mexico’s higher-rated debt are
turning to bonds sold by Pemex and other state-owned companies
instead after the government pared offerings, said Sergio Mendez, who helps manage about 99 billion pesos ($8.5 billion)
at pension fund Afore XXI.  Mexico , whose BBB rating from
 Standard & Poor’s  is the second-lowest investment grade, plans
to sell $3 billion of bonds abroad this year, down from $5.9
billion in 2010, Deputy Mexican Finance Minister  Gerardo Rodriguez  said last month.  “This is a great opportunity to buy because anything tied
to Mexico risk is very attractive relative to other countries,”
Mendez, who manages the second-best performing pension fund in
Mexico, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s office in Mexico
City yesterday. “State-owned companies like Pemex are taking
advantage of this and are likely going to sell more this year.”  Pemex, based in Mexico City, sold $1 billion more of its
bonds due in 2021 to yield about 4.8 percent yesterday. The
company, which is also rated BBB, issued $1.25 billion of 30-
year bonds to yield 6.56 percent in May.  Oil Output  Pemex may raise as much as $8 billion this year in local
and foreign debt markets and through loans to help fund a 286
billion-peso investment plan that aims to reverse a six-year
decline in crude output. The company will use about 60 percent
of proceeds from the offerings to refinance debt, Chief
Financial Officer Ignacio Quesada said on June 25 at the
Bloomberg CFO Summit in Mexico City.  Quesada declined to comment at an event in Mexico City
yesterday.  Speculation that slowing economic growth in the U.S. will
prompt the  Federal Reserve  to keep  interest rates  at a record
low is fueling demand for higher-yielding Mexican assets, said
Alejandro Urbina, who oversees $800 million of emerging-market
debt at Silva Capital Management LLC.  ‘Pressure’  “The government has removed some pressure from the market,
allowing others to fund themselves in dollars,” Urbina said in
a telephone interview in  Chicago . “People who are looking for
new issuance in dollars will pick up Pemex” because of the
yield premium, he said.  A Finance Ministry official didn’t return calls for
comment.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed seven basis
points to 132 at 5 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell three basis points to 111 basis points,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
if a government or company fails to adhere to its debt
agreements.  The peso gained 0.5 percent to 11.591 per  U.S. dollar .  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in March rose seven basis points to 5.02 percent,
indicating traders expect the central bank to raise benchmark
borrowing costs that month.  European Crisis  Pemex’s borrowing costs may rise relative to that of the
government should  Europe ’s debt crisis deepen and erode demand
for higher-yielding assets, said  Enrique Alvarez , head of  Latin
America  fixed-income research, at IdeaGlobal in New York.  “Anything that is not specifically the sovereign-grade
credit probably would widen somewhat,” Alvarez said in a
telephone interview.  Urbina said higher-rated Mexican companies should step up
borrowing in overseas markets to tap into demand for the
country’s fixed-income assets.  Comision Federal de Electricidad, the state-owned utility
that shares Mexico’s BBB rating, raised $1 billion in its first
international debt sale in almost a decade in May. BBVA Bancomer
SA, the local unit of  Spain ’s Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA, sold $2 billion of bonds in March. The bank is also rated
BBB.  “All the issuers who can are going to try take advantage
of this moment,” Urbina said. “If you don’t seek funding now,
there may not be a moment later.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Bain in  New York  at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  