-- 
PepsiCo Lowers 2011 Profit Forecast as Ingredient, Packaging Costs Rise

-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 
2011-07-21T20:06:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/pepsico-second-quarter-profit-rises-18-as-frito-lay-snack-sales-increase.html
PepsiCo Inc., the world’s largest
snack-food maker, said profit this year will increase more
slowly than it previously projected because of rising commodity
costs and slowing consumer demand.  Earnings per share will grow 5 percent to 7 percent in
2011, excluding a benefit from translating overseas profit into
dollars, Chief Financial Officer Hugh Johnston said today on a
conference call. Purchase, New York-based PepsiCo said in April
that profit would rise 7 percent to 8 percent on that basis.  Chief Executive Officer  Indra Nooyi  said today slowing
consumer demand prompted her to delay some price increases the
company had planned to make up for higher costs for ingredients
and plastic packaging. PepsiCo said commodity costs are rising
at the high end of its forecast for a gain of $1.4 billion to
$1.6 billion this year, from a base of $18 billion.  “They were probably too optimistic in a year like this,
when they’ve got commodity inflation and they just can’t take
pricing,”  Philip Gorham , a senior equity analyst for
Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago , said today in an interview.  PepsiCo, also the world’s second-largest soft drink maker,
fell $2.32, or 3.4 percent, to $66.17 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 1.3
percent this year, compared with a 5.4 percent increase for
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO)   Second-quarter net income rose to $1.89 billion, or $1.17 a
share, from $1.6 billion, or 98 cents, a year earlier, Pepsi
said in a statement. Excluding some items, profit was $1.21 a
share, matching the average of 14 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Sales Gain  Sales rose 14 percent to $16.8 billion. Global snack sales
volume grew 10 percent as beverage volume gained 5 percent.  PepsiCo said its lower guidance also reflects “higher
uncertainty regarding macroeconomic and consumer trends for
2011.”  “As we knew we would, we had exceptionally high levels of
commodity inflation,” Nooyi said today during a conference
call. “That said, it’s the consumer and competitive picture
that has become more difficult than we expected.”  Coca-Cola, the world’s largest soft-drink maker, said this
week that net income advanced 18 percent to $2.8 billion, or
$1.20 a share, as sales in  Asia  and  Latin America  gained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Duane Stanford} in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  