-- 
Perella Weinberg Picked to Run Ball State University Endowment

-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 
2011-07-21T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/perella-weinberg-picked-to-run-ball-state-university-endowment.html
Perella Weinberg  Partners LP, the
New York investment bank founded by Joseph Perella and  Peter
Weinberg , has been hired to manage Ball State University’s $160
million endowment.  Perella Weinberg’s Agility unit, which oversees $2 billion
for endowments, foundations and wealthy individuals, took over
the fund on July 1. Thomas Heck, chief investment officer at the
Ball State University Foundation, will retain his post and work
with the school’s investment committee and Agility.  The board of the Ball State foundation, which is
responsible for the endowment, spent the past year exploring
outsourcing, Heck said in a telephone interview. The fund gained
6.2 percent in the 12 months ended June 2010. That trailed the
average return of 12 percent by school endowments, according to
the National Association of College and University Business
Officers.  “We didn’t have the resources to be more tactical,” said
Heck, 57, who doesn’t have any investment staff. “We weren’t
able to react to the volatility in the market very well.”  Ball State lost 25 percent in 2009, compared with an
average decline of 19 percent among peers, following the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.  The agreement with Agility allows the investment committee
to focus on bigger-picture issues such as  asset allocation , Heck
said. Agility will build a portfolio that is diversified across
geographies, asset classes and managers.  Agility’s chief investment officer is Christopher Bittman,
who managed the University of Colorado endowment before joining
Perella Weinberg in 2009.  U.S. endowments and foundations will outsource about $215
billion by 2015, more than double today’s $100 billion,
according to Casey Quirk & Associates LLC, a consulting firm in
Darien,  Connecticut . Other investment-outsourcing firms include
Makena Capital Management LLC in  Menlo Park ,  California , and
Investure LLC in Charlottesville, Virginia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  