-- 
Pfizer Won’t Break Up Animal Unit for Potential Lilly Bid

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l   a n d   B o b   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-07-21T20:13:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/pfizer-won-t-break-up-animal-unit-as-lilly-shows-interest-in-some-products.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, said it has no plans to break up the company’s  animal
health  unit after  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  expressed interest in buying
some of its products.  Lilly, which had $1.39 billion in sales from animal-health
products last year, is monitoring Pfizer’s plans to divest its
unit and will pursue assets deemed of interest, Chief Financial
Officer Derica Rice said today in a conference call. Pfizer
wants a sale or spinoff of the unit and doesn’t foresee breaking
it up, said Joan Campion, a company spokeswoman.  Pfizer Chief Executive Officer  Ian Read  said on July 7 he
is divesting the company’s animal health and nutrition units to
buy back shares and focus on developing new drugs. The units may
fetch $22 billion, according to  Seamus Fernandez , an analyst at
Leerink Swann & Co. Pfizer’s animal health unit had sales last
year of $3.48 billion.  “While we are evaluating a variety of options including a
sale, spinoff or other transaction, we believe we will favor one
overall option rather than dividing assets and business
operations,” Campion said today in an e-mail.  Pfizer’s review of its options for the unit will take 12 to
24 months, Campion said. The company doesn’t plan further
announcements about the unit until 2012, she said.  Pfizer shares rose 20 cents, or 1 percent, to $20.10 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Lilly rose
$1.15, or 3 percent, to $39.32, for the biggest single-day gain
since Jan. 19, 2010.  Evolving Situation  “We will watch how that situation evolves, and if there
are some assets that become available that we are interested in,
yes, we will pursue them,” Lilly’s Rice said in a conference
call with analysts. “It is very early to speculate” what type
of transaction Pfizer is seeking, he said.  Lilly isn’t likely to buy the unit outright, Fernandez said
in an e-mail. In order to maintain its quarterly dividend of 49
cents a share, which Rice has said Lilly will do, the company
would have to issue more stock and risk diluting earnings or use
so much cash that it would hurt the company’s credit ratings,
Fernandez said. The deal is also unlikely to be approved by
antitrust regulators, he said.  “I simply don’t think they are interested, and a $12
billion-plus deal would be a pretty big deal,” Fernandez wrote.
If another buyer emerges and faces regulatory hurdles, Lilly
might be able to purchase some assets from the acquiring
company, he said.  Lilly is interested in expanding its Elanco animal heath
unit’s offerings in vaccines and pet products, as well as
boosting its presence in  Europe , Jeff Simmons, president of the
division, said in a June 29 telephone interview. Elanco’s
biggest product line is feed additives for cattle and poultry.  “We are going to be opportunistic in animal health,”
Simmons said. “We are looking for additional assets. We are not
interested in acquiring for the sake of acquiring; it has got to
have a strategic element.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Randall in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 