-- 
Manufacturing in Philadelphia Fed Region Expanded in July

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-07-21T14:25:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/philadelphia-region-manufacturing-rebounds-in-fed-index-after-contraction.html
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region rebounded in July from its first contraction this year, a
sign factories are recovering from earlier supply shortages
caused by  Japan ’s earthquake.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index rose to 3.2 from minus 7.7 the prior month. Readings
greater than zero signal growth in the area covering eastern
 Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware . The median
forecast of 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was 2.
Estimates ranged from minus 6 to 10.  Easing supply shortages after Japan’s March earthquake
means carmakers and other producers can make up lost production,
even as mounting inventories may restrain the advance. With
consumer spending slowing, manufacturers will have to rely more
on overseas orders to keep growing.  “We are starting to see some of the supply-chain issues
improve, which suggests manufacturing is holding up,”  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP Paribas in
 New York , said before the report. “We’re still in the soft
patch.”  The figures contrast with a Federal Reserve Bank of New
York survey last week that showed manufacturing contracted in
that region this month.  Sentiment, Claims  Other reports today showed consumer sentiment stagnated
last week and more Americans filed claims for jobless benefits.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was minus 43.3 in the
period to July 17, the highest since April, compared with minus
43.9 the prior week. The monthly gauge of the economic outlook
improved from a two-year low.  Applications for jobless insurance payments increased
10,000 in the week ended July 16 to 418,000. Economists forecast
410,000 claims, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The Philadelphia Fed’s new orders measure climbed to 0.1
from minus 7.6. The shipments gauge rose to 4.3 from 4.  The employment index increased to 8.9 from 4.1.  The index of prices paid dropped to 25.1, the lowest level
since September, from 26.8 the prior month, while a gauge of
prices received fell to 1.1 from 4.4.  The Philadelphia Fed’s overall index isn’t composed of the
individual measures, one reason some economists consider it a
gauge of sentiment among manufacturers.  Better Outlook  An index of the outlook for the next six months jumped to
23.7, a three-month high, from 2.5 in June.  Economists monitor the New York and Philadelphia Fed
factory reports for clues about the Institute for Supply
Management national figures on manufacturing during the month.
The ISM data is due on July 1.  Figures from the New York Fed on July 15 showed the so-
called Empire State index contracted for a second straight month
in July. The index rose to minus 3.8 from minus 7.8 the prior
month.  Manufacturing makes up about 12 percent of the  U.S.
economy . U.S. factory payrolls rose by 6,000 workers in June,
according to Labor Department data, while the national
 unemployment rate  rose to 9.2 percent.  Executives at multinational corporations such as  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX)  and  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  see most growth coming from
overseas markets.  Unemployment, Housing  “Most measures still point to a slow and uneven
recovery,” Gregory Hayes, chief financial officer at the
Hartford-based United Technologies, which provides technology
and support services to the aerospace and building industries,
said on a July 20 teleconference. “High unemployment, a weak
housing sector, and the deficit standoff in Washington all
continued to dampen consumer sentiment here in the U.S.”  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, last week said
second-quarter profits more than doubled after higher prices
outweighed increasing raw-material costs.  “We have seen some softening, particularly in the U.S.,
that we believe is temporary,”  Klaus Kleinfeld , chairman and
president of the New York-based company, said on a
teleconference. “We expect a healthy year-on-year global growth
and we expect the U.S. sales volume to bounce back to the first
quarter levels later this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  