-- 
Pimco Sees Rising Euro-Contagion Risk for Poland on ‘Policy Complacency’

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-07-21T16:34:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/pimco-sees-rising-euro-contagion-risk-for-poland-on-policy-complacency-.html
Poland ’s risk of contagion from the
euro-area debt crisis is rising because the country isn’t doing
enough to cut its budget gap, said  Michael Gomez , an emerging-
markets fund manager at Pacific Investment Management Co.  Failure to solve the Greek crisis may widen the spread
between Polish government bond yields and those of countries
such as Belgium, and a “big disruption of the markets” may
force Poland to tap its $30 billion flexible  credit line  from
the  International Monetary Fund , Gomez said yesterday by phone.  “The chance of a disruption to the euro zone’s peripheral
economies is getting larger,” said Gomez, the Munich-based co-
head of emerging markets at Pimco, the world’s biggest manager
of bond funds. “Poland is still in a relatively good position
to navigate difficulties, but there are signs of policy
complacency and the Polish economy wouldn’t be immune to an
acute global disruption.”  Euro-area leaders meeting today in Brussels may accept a
temporary Greek default and ease the terms of bailouts to
 Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland to resolve the debt crisis, two
officials familiar with the negotiations said. In Poland, the
European Union’s largest eastern member, Prime Minister Donald Tusk will seek a mandate from voters in October to cut the
budget deficit to less than the bloc’s limit of 3 percent of
economic output next year from 7.9 percent in 2010.  Pimco invests in Polish  government securities  including
fixed-coupon bonds maturing in 2014 and 2015, as well as the
zloty, according to Bloomberg data.  Zloty, Bond Spreads  The zloty has weakened 1.1 percent against the euro in the
past three months, the sixth-worst performance among more than
20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The Polish currency strengthened today on investor optimism
about the talks in Brussels, advancing to 3.9861 per euro at
5:18 p.m. in Warsaw from 3.9977 late yesterday. The yield on the
five-year government bond fell to 5.264 percent from 5.296.  The spread between Poland’s five-year benchmark bond and
Belgian bonds maturing the same year narrowed to 172 basis
points today from 278 on Nov. 4, when a government stalemate in
 Belgium  increased political risk. Poland has the EU’s sixth-
biggest economy, just ahead of Belgium.  Poland sold 3 billion zloty ($1.1 billion) of 10-year
Treasury bonds at today’s auction, matching the maximum amount
offered, at an average yield of 5.803 percent, the Warsaw-based
 Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement.  It “wouldn’t be damaging in and of itself” for Poland to
tap the  IMF  credit line, Gomez said. “I would view it a source
of liquidity and insurance that the Polish economy has at its
disposal. Of course, if Poland were to tap the FCL that would
imply that we have seen a big disruption of the markets, which
would obviously be negative.”  Credit-Default Swaps  Poland’s five-year credit-default swaps, used to protect
investors from non-payment or speculate on a borrower’s credit
worthiness, are trading at around 170 basis points, compared
with 58 for  Germany , the EU’s largest economy, according to
figures from data provider CMA. Poland is rated A- by  Standard &
Poor’s , one step below the neighboring  Czech Republic .  While Poland, which accounts for more than a third of the
output in the EU’s eastern states, was the only country in the
27-nation bloc to avoid recession in 2009, public finances have
deteriorated.  The  budget deficit  has more than quadrupled since 2007,
pushing public debt to 52.8 percent of gross domestic product
last year, according to Polish accounting standards. Breaching
55 percent would trigger mandatory austerity measures.  Deficit-Cutting Plan  The government has said it aims to cut the deficit to 2.9
percent of GDP next year, counting on 4 percent economic growth.
The central bank last week lowered its forecast for 2011
economic expansion to 3.2 percent from 3.6 percent. The European
Commission said in June the government’s deficit-cutting plans
were based on “slightly too favorable” growth forecasts.  Tusk is seeking to become the first premier since the
communist regime was overthrown in 1989 to win a second term in
office. Poland can reach its deficit goal “without any
changes” to the government’s plans, Tusk said this month.  Support for Tusk’s ruling Civic Platform was unchanged at
34.5 percent, while backing for the opposition Law & Justice
party increased 1.8 percentage points to 29.1 percent, according
to a poll conducted July 15 by researcher Homo Homini, Polskie
Radio reported. Homo Homini surveyed 1,100 adults by phone. No
margin of error was given.  “The policy stance has been more accommodating over the
recent cycle than we would expect it to be and we look for
tighter policies going forward,” Gomez said. “There hasn’t
been any severe disruption in Poland because of its strong
initial conditions, but policy needs to tighten up. The
country’s susceptibility to contagion rises the longer it
waits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz  in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  