-- 
Playboy’s Hefner Acted Properly in Taking Company Private, Lawyers Say

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-07-21T21:48:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/playboy-s-hefner-acted-properly-in-taking-company-private-lawyers-say.html
Playboy Enterprises Inc. (PLA)  founder
Hugh M. Hefner acted properly in a $207 million deal that
allowed him to take the 58-year-old magazine publisher private,
his lawyers argued in a court filing.  Hefner, who founded Playboy in 1953, didn’t violate legal
duties to other investors by backing a partnership’s acquisition
of all Playboy stock he didn’t already own for $6.15 a share,
Hefner’s lawyers said in an unsealed filing in connection with
shareholder lawsuits over the deal.  “Mr. Hefner was fully justified in doing the things about
which plaintiffs complain as a matter of law,” Hefner’s
attorneys said in the  Delaware Chancery Court  filing, which
seeks to have the suits dismissed.  A partnership owned by Hefner and private-equity firm  Rizvi
Traverse Management LLC  took Playboy private in March after more
than 84 percent of the company’s minority stockholders tendered
their shares, according to court filings. Playboy directors
backed the buyout, which provided a 50 percent premium, as being
in shareholders’ “best interests,” the filings show.  Some Playboy investors contend they were shortchanged in
the buyout and argue Hefner took the company private “at an
inadequate price,” according to a 2010 suit filed in state
court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  The decision by a Playboy board committee to back Hefner’s
push to take the company private ended a contest for control
with FriendFinder Networks Inc., the owner of Penthouse adult
magazine, which said it would offer $210 million for Chicago-
based Playboy.  Circulation Drop  Playboy expanded around the globe in the 1960s and 1970s
when Hefner ran the company. The company went public in 1971 and
circulation reached 7.2 million for one issue in 1972. Hefner,
85, is still the magazine’s editor-in-chief.  The company, which also produces television content and
licenses its logo, has seen magazine circulation and revenue
drop in recent years. Last year, the company reduced Playboy
magazine’s rate base, the total of newsstand and subscription
sales guaranteed to advertisers, to 1.5 million from 2.6
million.  Lawyers for Playboy directors said in their own court
filing that company officials began considering offers in 2009
in anticipation of $115 million in debt payments that were
scheduled to come due in March 2012.  Hefner, who wasn’t serving as a Playboy director when the
board considered the going-private deal, didn’t “utilize his
controlling interest” in the company to strong-arm executives
or other investors into backing the buyout, his lawyers said.  ‘Sales Discretion’  They also said that since Hefner hasn’t served as a Playboy
director since 1988, he didn’t owe a legal duty to minority
shareholders as part of the deal.  As part of the buyout, Hefner “sold his controlling
interest” in Playboy to the partnership, the lawyers noted in
the filing. Minority shareholders shouldn’t be able to use that
sale to challenge the deal, the attorneys said.  Delaware law gives a controlling shareholder the
“discretion as to when to sell his stock and to whom,” the
lawyers said.  Rizvi Traverse, with offices in  New York  and  Los Angeles ,
has more than $3 billion under management, according to the
firm’s web site.  The case is In Re Playboy Enterprises Inc. Shareholders
Litigation, Consolidated CA No. 5632-VCN, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 