-- 
Polish Yield Drops Below Spain’s in Bond Sale on Budget Gap

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d
-- 
2011-07-21T16:08:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/poland-sells-3-billion-zloty-of-10-year-bonds-at-auction-yield-below-spain.html
Poland  sold its maximum offering of
new 10-year bonds as a smaller-than-forecast  budget deficit  and
slowing inflation pushed the government’s borrowing costs below
those of higher-rated  Spain  for the first time on record.  The European Union member raised 3 billion zloty ($1.08
billion) from securities maturing in October 2021 at an average
yield of 5.803 percent, the  Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed
statement. That compares with a 5.896 percent yield in a sale of
Spain’s April 2021 debt today and with 6.215 percent at the last
Polish auction of 10-year notes in January.  Investors rushed to buy Polish bonds after the government
said last month its deficit this year may be lower than planned,
boosting confidence the country will avoid contagion from the
euro region’s credit crisis. A report last week showed annual
inflation slowed to 4.2 percent in June from 5 percent a month
earlier, reducing the need for higher  interest rates .  “The auction was much stronger than expected,”  Gyula Toth , emerging-market strategist at UniCredit SpA, said by phone
from Vienna. “Inflation slowing and especially the deficit
comment from the government may have boosted demand. Also, there
is not too much issuance going on in Poland, so investors seize
any opportunity to get a decent amount of bonds in auctions.”  Concern that funding costs could rise prompted the Polish
government to cover more than 75 percent of 2011 borrowing needs
in the first six months, amassing more cash than needed to repay
debt coming due this year. The Finance Ministry canceled sales
of Treasury bills in the third quarter and limited bond auctions
to one per month from as many as two in the previous quarter.  EU Summit  Investors bid for 5.61 billion zloty of the Polish notes
today, compared with the offering range of 1 billion zloty to 3
billion zloty, the Warsaw-based ministry said. In separate
statement, the ministry said it won’t hold an extra auction of
the new 10-year notes later today.  Spanish, Greek and Italian 10-year securities rose after
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President Nicolas
Sarkozy agreed on a joint position to solve  Greece ’s debt crisis
before a meeting of EU leaders today. Luxembourg Premier Jean-
Claude Juncker said Greece may not be able to avoid default.  While Poland is rated A2, three steps below Spain, at
Moody’s Investors Service, the cost of insuring  government bonds 
in Spain against non-payment is nearly twice as high. Polish
credit-default swaps, which drop as creditworthiness perceptions
improve, fell to 162 basis points, or 1.62 percentage point,
from 170 yesterday. Spanish default swaps last traded at 309
basis points and  Italy ’s at 253, according to CMA prices.  The zloty strengthened for a third day, gaining 0.2 percent
to 3.9888 per euro as of 6:02 p.m. in Warsaw.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
David McQuaid in Warsaw at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  