-- 
Publicis First-Half Profitability Drops Amid Hiring Push to Bolster Sales

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-07-21T07:59:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/publicis-sales-surge-on-latin-america-push-digital-media-acquisitions.html
Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) ’s first-half
profitability fell as the third-largest advertising agency spent
more on salaries and new employees to bolster sales in emerging
and digital markets. The stock dropped the most in more than
four months.  The operating margin, the income as a percentage of net
sales, declined by 1 percentage point to 13.5 percent, the
Paris-based company said in a statement today.  Publicis, which owns the Leo Burnett and Saatchi & Saatchi
advertising agencies, is making acquisitions in faster growing
markets such as  Latin America  and  Asia  and in digital marketing
tools as economic growth in  Europe  and the U.S. is damped by
high debt and unemployment. Publicis said today it will
prioritize hiring and that it increased pay this year after a
two-year salary and recruitment freeze.  “They had to spend a lot more on salaries,” said Paul Gooden, a managing director at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in  London . “Good growth, but disappointing margins.”  Publicis declined as much as 4.2 percent to 36.24 euros in
Paris trading and was down 3.4 percent as of 9:30 a.m. The stock
had fallen 3 percent this year before today.  Sales increased 2.7 percent to 1.41 billion euros ($2.01
billion) in the second quarter. Analysts had estimated 1.44
billion euros, according to a Bloomberg survey. Net income rose
8.5 percent to 231 million euros in the first half.  ‘Disappointing’  Liberum Capital analysts Ian Whittaker and Peter Madden,
which had expected net income of 272 million euros, today cut
their recommendation on Publicis shares to “hold” from “buy”
following the “disappointing” results.  Latin America was the company’s fastest growing region in
the second quarter, increasing revenue by 25 percent from a year
earlier after the company made acquisitions in  Brazil . Africa,
the Middle East and Europe grew 11 percent and Asia increased by
3.2 percent. Sales in  North America , Publicis’ largest region by
revenue, declined 5.9 percent.  “We are also worried about the slowdown in growth in North
America, especially given it is where Publicis’ higher growth
media and digital businesses have their base,” Liberum’s
Whittaker and Madden said.  Publicis, whose clients include  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) , said its recruitment centered on its new digital
services.  “Boosting our margin remains a priority, and in the second
half we’ll be harvesting the first results of that goal,” Chief
Executive Officer Maurice Levy said in the statement. He
reiterated a target to grow more than the overall market in
2011.  Acquisitions  Levy said last month he will spend at least 700 million
euros on acquisitions this year, up from a previous target of as
much as 500 million euros. Publicis could spend even more if a
particularly compelling deal comes along, he said.  The company in June agreed to buy  China ’s Genedigi Group to
become the largest public relations network in the country.
Genedigi had 400 employees and offices in Beijing,  Shanghai  and
Guangzhou. Publicis has said it expects its Chinese business to
double by 2013.  Publicis has announced the acquisitions of more than a
dozen companies so far this year, almost matching the number of
2010 deals, according to Bloomberg data. The company’s current
targets are significantly smaller than the 575-million euro
acquisition of Rosetta Marketing Group, which was announced in
May, Levy said in June.  Rosetta will join the French company’s digital-oriented
brands such as Digitas and Razorfish, and be part of a strategy
of expanding that segment to 35 percent of group revenue in 2013
from 28 percent last year, Publicis has said.  (The company will host a conference call to discuss the
results at 12pm Paris time. To access the webcast, go to
www.media-server.com/m/p/a8j5dp96.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  