-- 
NATO Allies Opens to Possibility Qaddafi Could Stay in Libya

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-07-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/qaddafi-s-waiting-game-opens-possibility-he-could-stay-in-libya.html
The U.S., the U.K.,  Italy  and  France 
now say they’re willing to accept an outcome in Libya that would
allow  Muammar Qaddafi  avoid exile or a trial on war crimes
charges.  After conducting four months of daily bombings,  NATO-led
allies  are willing to let Qaddafi stay in Libya on the condition
that he gives up power.  “If the Libya people believe an internal solution is
acceptable, then Italy agrees,” Italian Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini  said yesterday in Guangzhou,  China , according to ANSA
news agency. A spokesman confirmed his comments.  “One of the scenarios effectively envisaged is that he
stays in Libya on one condition, which I repeat: that he very
clearly steps aside from Libyan political life,” French Foreign
Minister  Alain Juppe  said July 20 in a television interview with
French news channel LCI.  As the military campaign enters its fifth month, the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization allies want to wrap up a mission
that Juppe promised at its March 19 outset “will be counted in
days and in weeks, not in months.” Politically, they have
pressing concerns at home: For Europeans, it’s saving the euro
and for Americans, it’s defending an AAA credit rating by
cutting federal spending.  “It shows some desperation, because the entire military
operation didn’t deliver what the U.K., France and also the U.S.
had hoped for,”  Jan Techau , director of Carnegie Europe in
Brussels, the European center of the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace, said in a telephone interview. “You get
pragmatic and you change the targets.”  ‘Regime Change 2.0’  Qaddafi, who seized power of the oil-rich North African
nation in a military coup in 1969, still controls the capital,
Tripoli, and has threatened to “blow up” the city if the
rebels succeed in seizing it.  Techau calls the new strategy “Regime Change 2.0,”
permitting exile within Libya. That is a softer take on the
original plan, which had been to either let Qaddafi escape to a
safe haven or have him stand trial for  war crimes  at the
 International Criminal Court  in The Hague,  Netherlands .  For the first time, allies and rebels may be prepared to
grant Qaddafi’s wish to live out his retirement on his home
soil, on the condition he lay down his arms and give up power.  That “is a possibility that can be worked to try and make
him leave” power, Mahmoud Jibril, who heads the  Transitional
National Council , the rebel governing group, told reporters in
 Madrid  yesterday.  Leaving Power  “If Qaddafi does not leave power, there is no room for an
exchange of ideas,” he said. “We do not intend to negotiate on
whether Qaddafi leaves power but on how he leaves power.”  As the fighting continues, Qaddafi’s troops have set
explosive charges at petroleum installation in the oil port of
Brega as well as at unspecified oilfields, Jibril said,
according to the  Associated Press .  The June 27 indictment of Qaddafi on charges of crimes
against humanity limited his exile options to a handful of
countries that did not ratify the Rome treaty that set up the
court in 2002.  Still, Qaddafi saw a door open the day after the U.S. and
31 other nations gave the Transitional National Council official
recognition as the governing authority in  Libya .  U.S. Ambassador to Libya  Gene Cretz , Assistant Secretary of
State Jeffrey Feltman and National Security Council staff member
Derek Chollet held a secret meeting July 16 with representatives
of Qaddafi’s inner circle.  U.S.-Libyan Meeting  The face-to-face talks were a sign of U.S. willingness to
negotiate with the regime, according to a spokesman for
Qaddafi’s government, Moussa Ibrahim. U.S. State Department
officials insist that the meeting was not a negotiation and was
intended only to deliver the message in person that Qaddafi must
step down.  Either way, U.S. officials don’t exclude the possibility of
Qaddafi staying in Libya as long as he steps aside.  “He needs to be removed from power or remove himself from
power,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters
July 20. “It is up to the Libyan people to decide what his
future is beyond that, I mean, so it’s not for us to say.”  Robert Danin , a senior fellow at the  Council on Foreign
Relations  in  Washington , said that the longer the military
campaign drags on, the harder it becomes to keep the coalition
together. Time has played in Qaddafi’s favor, as it “seems to
have strengthened his negotiating position,” Danin said in a
telephone interview.  ‘Palpable Option’  By flitting between conciliatory overtures and threats,
Qaddafi has kept his opponents guessing what his next move will
be or whether the end to the conflict will come only with his
capture or death.  “Qaddafi’s message is, ‘Like hell am I leaving Tripoli;
give me something I can work with or come get me,’” said
Alessandro Politi, a former adviser to the Italian Defense
Ministry. “The allies realize they can’t keep demanding he cede
power if they don’t give him a palpable option of where to go.”  The “best” outcome would be for Qaddafi to leave Libya
and stand trial in  The Hague , Gavin Cook, a spokesman for the
U.K. Foreign Office, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“But what happens to Qaddafi is ultimately up to the Libyan
people, and they should determine his future.”  Letting Qaddafi stay does pose risks and could destabilize
a country that was stitched together in 1929, when Tripolitania
and Cyrenaica were united as one colonial province under the
Italians. Qaddafi has held the country together in his four
decades in power.  “Is he going to be safe five, 10 years down the line is
what he will be asking himself,” Politi said. “Will the
authorities catch up with him or someone try and kill him?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  