-- 
Rand Appreciates Most in Seven Weeks Against Dollar on European Debt Pact

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-07-21T15:47:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/rand-gains-third-day-versus-dollar-as-greek-debt-optimism-spurs-risk-trade.html
The rand gained the most in seven
weeks versus the U.S. currency, and yields fell to six-month
lows, as prospects of an agreement on Greek debt at today’s
European Union summit dimmed the dollar’s safe-haven allure.  The rand strengthened as much as 1.4 percent to 6.7917 per
dollar, the biggest intra-day gain since May 31. It traded 1.2
percent stronger at 6.8013 as of 5:45 p.m. in Johannesburg, the
strongest level on a closing basis since July 8. The currency of
 Africa ’s biggest economy advanced 0.1 percent to 9.7680 per
euro.  The euro, which pays for 45 percent of  South Africa ’s
exports, advanced to the highest in almost two weeks against the
dollar on bets the European Financial Stability Facility may get
the power to buy bonds from investors, help countries
recapitalize banks and offer precautionary lines of credit to
repel speculative attacks. The rand kept gains after the central
bank left its benchmark interest rate unchanged, citing a
fragile recovery in Africa’s biggest economy.  “The rand has been moving on the euro’s coat tails,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic research at
Johannesburg-based Nedbank Capital, a unit of South Africa’s
fourth-biggest bank, said by phone.  The rand often moves in tandem with the euro, with a
correlation of 0.83 over the past month. A value of 1 would mean
they moved in lock step.  ‘As Expected’  The Pretoria-based  Reserve Bank  left its repo rate at 5.5
percent today, saying risks to economic growth outweighed
concern about rising inflation. Governor Gill Marcus said
inflation will probably breach the 6 percent target in the
fourth quarter and average 6.3 percent in 2012. The inflation
rate rose to 5 percent in June, from 4.6 percent the previous
month.  “The MPC statement was pretty much as expected,”
Cruickshanks said. “International factors are what we’re
waiting for and that will drive the rand.”  Bonds gained for a third day on speculation the central
bank won’t raise interest rates this year even as inflation
pushes outside the target range.  Forward-rate agreements starting in December, which
investors use to lock in  interest rates , dropped seven basis
points, or 0.07 percent, to 5.75 percent today as traders pared
bets on a rate increase at November’s MPC meeting.  “The considerable downside risks posed by the
deterioration in the global economy, for the time being,
continue to outweigh the risk posed by rising inflation,”
Nomvuyo Guma, a Johannesburg-based analyst at Standard Bank
Group Ltd., said in a research note. “We see this being the
case for the rest of this year.”  The 13.5 percent notes due 2015 added 17 cents to 121.46,
driving the yield down five basis points, or 0.05 percent, to
7.37 percent, the lowest on a closing basis since Jan. 10.  Foreign investors bought a net 1.52 billion rand ($221
million) of South African bonds yesterday, adding to 40.3
billion of purchases this year, according JSE Ltd., which
operates the country’s stock and bond exchanges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  