-- 
Treasuries Tumble Amid Summit in Europe, Lack of Progress on Debt in U.S.

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-07-21T21:05:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/treasuries-erase-decline-on-concern-over-agreement-at-european-debt-summit.html
Treasuries fell for a second day as
European Union leaders redoubled efforts to end the region’s
debt crisis, while U.S. officials reported no progress on
raising the federal debt limit and cutting the budget deficit.  Benchmark 10-year note yields rose to the highest in more
than a week as  Standard & Poor’s  reiterated it sees a 50 percent
chance of downgrading the U.S. credit rating within three
months. European leaders at a summit risked a temporary default
to ease  Greece ’s debt burden and erected a firewall around Spain
and  Italy . The U.S. will sell $99 billion in notes next week.  “EU leaders are going in the right direction,” said
 William Larkin , a fixed-income  money manager  at Salem,
Massachusetts-based Cabot Money Management, which oversees $500
million. “There was a lot of optimism in the market today. It’s
probably going to be short-lived.”  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes climbed nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 3.01 percent at 5:03 p.m.
in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It
touched 3.04 percent, the highest level since July 11. The 3.125
percent securities maturing in May 2021 dropped 23/32, or $7.19
per $1,000 face amount, to 100 30/32.  Thirty-year bond yields gained six basis points to 4.31
percent. Two-year yields rose two basis points to 0.4 percent
and touched 0.41 percent, the highest since July 8.  The euro advanced to $1.4435, the highest in two weeks, and
global stocks gained, pushing the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  up 1.4 percent.  Rescue Fund  European leaders, after eight hours of talks in Brussels,
empowered their 440-billion euro ($633 billion) rescue fund to
buy debt across stressed euro nations. It can also aid troubled
banks and offer credit-lines to repel speculators. Leaders
pledged a 160 billion euro aid package for Greece, eased the
terms of its existing loans and cajoled bondholders into footing
part of the bill.  Jean-Claude Trichet, European Central Bank president, told
reporters euro region members pledged enhancements to Greek
collateral and to provide backing for it if needed.  Two European officials familiar with the talks said
governments may guarantee any defaulted Greek debt offered as
collateral at money market operations. That would enable Greek
banks to keep tapping the ECB for emergency funds. The officials
said the aim would be limit any  credit event  to a few days.  Treasuries slid as S&P reiterated its July 14 warning that
there’s a one-in-two possibility it will cut the U.S. AAA rating
if the government hasn’t agreed on a “credible solution” on
the nation’s debt level, even if it raises the debt limit in
time to avoid a potential default.  ‘No Deal’  President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman and House Speaker  John Boehner  said there’s “no deal” on raising the U.S. debt limit
as all sides said they still lack a consensus on spending cuts
and  tax revenue .  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  and Boehner
responded to a New York Times story today that the two sides
were close to a major agreement. Boehner, an Ohio Republican,
said in a Twitter message reports of a deal were “false.”  “There is no progress to report,” Carney said at a
briefing in  Washington . He said the administration is
“absolutely confident” an agreement to avert a default can be
reached before an Aug. 2 deadline.  The administration signaled yesterday it may accept a
short-term increase in the U.S. borrowing ceiling if an
agreement on cutting the  budget deficit  is imminent, adding to
speculation the limit will be raised.  ‘Not Good’  “A temporary raise in the ceiling is not good,” said  Ray Remy , head of fixed income in New York at Daiwa Capital Markets
America Inc., one of 20 primary dealers that trade directly with
the  Federal Reserve . “With a temporary thing, all that means is
we push the can down the road and we’re going to talk about it
for the next three, four, five months.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the U.S.
will be unable to service its debt from Aug. 2. A bipartisan
proposal from six senators for a $3.7 trillion debt reduction,
revived this week and praised by Obama, faces resistance from
 House Republicans , who have continued to stress opposition to a
debt compromise that includes more taxes.  The U.S. auctioned $13 billion in 10-year Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, drawing a yield of
0.639 percent. That compared with the average forecast of 0.673
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of nine primary dealers.
Today’s rate was the lowest since the November sale of the
securities yielded 0.409 percent, a record.  Indirect Bidders  Investors bid for 2.62 times the amount of debt offered,
compared with 2.66 times in May, and an average of 2.83 for the
past 10 auctions. Indirect bidders, a class of investors that
includes foreign central banks, purchased 41.6 percent of the
TIPS, compared with 40.7 percent at the May auction and an
average of 43.2 percent at the past 10 offerings.  The Treasury said it will sell $99 billion of notes next
week: $35 billion of two-year securities on July 26, the same
amount of five-year debt on the following day and $29 billion of
seven-year notes on July 28. The amounts are the same as at the
last time the U.S. auctioned the maturities in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  