-- 
Treasuries Maintain Losses After Merkel, Sarkozy Reach Agreement on Greece

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-07-21T08:02:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/treasuries-decline-after-merkel-sarkozy-reach-joint-position-on-greece.html
Treasuries fell for a second day as
talks between German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  boosted optimism the European Union
will help Greece avoid a default.  Longer-maturities led the decline after Merkel and Sarkozy
reached a joint position on Greece before euro-region leaders
meet today to discuss the region’s debt crisis. The U.S. will
today auction $13 billion of 10-year inflation-protected
securities and announce the sizes of three note sales scheduled
for next week, after the administration indicated it may reach a
compromise on the debt ceiling to avert a default.  “Given the news on the progress on the debt ceiling and
the fact that we have a highly important EU meeting today, it’s
been a minor movement thus far,” said  Kornelius Purps , a fixed-
income strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich. “Depending on
what comes out with respect to the  U.S. debt  issue and the
European debt issue, the yield movements will be far larger than
we are seeing currently.”  The benchmark 10-year yield rose two basis points to 2.95
percent as of 8:36 a.m. in London, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 3.125 percent note due May 2021 dropped 6/32,
or $1.88 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 15/32. The average over
the past decade is 4.06 percent.  The yield will climb to 3.28 percent by the end of
September, according to a Bloomberg survey of financial
companies with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings.  Brussels Summit  Details of the Merkel, Sarkozy agreement will be released
today when leaders meet in Brussels, the governments said in a
statement after seven hours of talks in Berlin. Officials are
under pressure to find a solution to stem the crisis. As  Greece 
struggles to avoid a default, investors concerned at borrowing
levels in Italy and  Spain  sent bond yields in those nations to
euro-era records this week.  President Barack Obama’s administration signaled it may
accept a short-term increase in the federal borrowing limit,
adding to hopes the government is making progress.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the
government will be unable to service the U.S. debt from Aug. 2.
The administration indicated yesterday it would accept a short-
term increase only if lawmakers need a few days to finish work
on a broader agreement to cut the deficit.  “The latest bets coming out of the U.S. are positive on
the ceiling,” said Rob da Silva, who helps oversee $235.3
billion as a  fund manager  at Principal Global Investors in
Sydney. “Treasuries are reacting to that.” The company is part
of Principal Financial Group Inc., a life insurer based in  Des
Moines ,  Iowa .  Auction Announcement  The U.S. will sell $35 billion of two-year securities on
July 26, $35 billion of five-year notes the following day and
$29 billion of seven-year debt on July 28, according to
Wrightson ICAP LLC.  The amounts would be the same as the last time the U.S.
auctioned these maturities in June, according to Wrightson,
which is based in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , and specializes in
 government finance .  An index of U.S. leading indicators rose at a slower pace
in June, indicating the recovery will be restrained in the
second half of the year, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before the report today. Jobless claims and a measure of
manufacturing increased, separate surveys showed.  Ten-year U.S. Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or
TIPS, yield 0.55 percent, compared with 0.887 percent at the
previous auction of the securities on May 19.  Investors bid for 2.66 times the amount of debt offered two
months ago, versus the average of 2.83 for the past 10 auctions.
Indirect bidders, the investor class that includes foreign
central banks, bought 40.7 percent of the securities, versus the
10-sale average of 43.2 percent.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity TIPS, a gauge of trader expectations for consumer
prices over the life of the debt, was 2.30 percentage points,
versus the 10-year average of 2.11 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 