-- 
Threat of Jail Would End U.S. Budget Gimmicks: Stephen L. Carter

-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 
2011-07-21T00:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/threat-of-jail-would-end-u-s-budget-gimmicks-stephen-l-carter.html
It is obviously good news, if true,
that Republicans and Democrats may be approaching compromise in
the negotiations over raising the federal debt ceiling.  Yet one has to wonder whether the so-called Gang of Six’s
proposed $3.7 trillion in long-term debt reductions will ever
come to pass, or is even an accurate, well-vetted figure. Or is
it, as usual, the federal government plans to thrill us with
numbers so  artificial  that they might land a company president
in prison?  The central problem with the federal budgeting process --
and with the way it is reported by a complaisant media -- is its
thorough lack of transparency.  When officials announce, with
great drama, that they have developed a “plan” to reduce the
“deficit,” they are usually sincere, but rarely accurate.  The plan is almost always a piece of paper -- the Gang of
Six’s struggles to fill five pages -- without any means of
enforcement, based on guesses, often poor ones, about the
future. Meanwhile, the budgetary process continues to chug
along, impenetrable to the mind of man.  Remember the  Budget Enforcement Act , adopted in 1990 to
limit discretionary spending, while ensuring that Congress
adopted no new tax cuts or entitlements without future revenues
to pay for them? You don’t? Of course not: Congress gutted the
thing once it began to get in the way of distributing benefits
without regard to cost.  Balance Sheet Wonders  How about the government’s balance sheet? You know, the
sort of thing that corporations have to issue every year,
calculating assets and liabilities using generally accepted
accounting principles? Haven’t seen it? Small wonder. Congress,
in its wisdom, believes that only the troglodytes of the private
sector should be burdened by such nonsense, lest their foolish
and unsophisticated clients at the banks of  Wall Street  be
deceived.  When you are carrying trillions of future liabilities, you
might want your investors -- the voting public, say -- to get a
peek now and then at the total financial picture. Or you would
if you were interested in transparency. But the federal
government is determined that its processes remain as opaque as
possible.  Experts have long catalogued the accounting tricks Congress
uses -- some would have been prohibited to private firms even
before the changes under the 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley law, others are
unique to the public sphere.  Hard to Resist  For instance, public companies, required to use “accrual
method” accounting, must book future liabilities as they accrue
rather than when they are paid. Not Congress. As the legal
scholar Cheryl Block  pointed out  in a law-review essay,
Congress, by using “cash method” accounting, can easily
“manipulate the timing of receipts and expenses,” thus making
the financial picture look rosier than it really is. Alas, says
Block, “budget gimmicks are often simply too difficult for
legislators to resist.”  As former Commerce Secretary Pete Peterson pointed out in
his book “Running on Empty,” a private enterprise that behaved
this way “stands in contempt of the law and is shunned by Wall
Street.”  Block’s article and Peterson’s book appeared during the
George W. Bush administration, but the trends they discuss are
not improving. A notorious recent example is the way the budget
scoring of last year’s health-care reform act was improved by
booking tax receipts in the short term while pushing many
liabilities beyond the 10-year horizon examined by the
 Congressional Budget Office , as well as by including some $50
billion in Social Security taxes that will actually be needed to
support Social Security. A public company that did the same
might face prosecution.  By the Numbers  The Congress that passed  Sarbanes-Oxley  concluded that the
only way to ensure transparency in corporate numbers was to
require corporate officers to certify that their numbers were
correct. The penalties for falsely certifying are substantial --
fines of as much as $5 million, and up to 20 years in prison --
on the theory that the fear of personal liability will reduce
the incentive to exaggerate future revenue or conceal future
liabilities.  By contrast, congressional appropriators and federal agency
heads, are under no similar constraints. True, the government
does have its own accounting principles. But nobody faces
liability if the numbers are off. Nobody has skin in the game.  Consequently, if we need Sarbanes-Oxley (as its supporters
still insist) to give us reassurance that we can believe
corporate America’s numbers, ought we not to have something
similar (as Peterson among others has argued) to reassure us
that we can believe the numbers coming out of  Washington ?  Two Proposals  After all, if federal officials really intend to create a
plan to reduce the nation’s debt, the least they can do is stand
behind it.  This leads to two concrete proposals:  First, the budget act should be amended to require that
Congress adopt every year a complete financial statement,
including an explicit plan for retiring the nation’s long-term
debt. The statement should be vetted, prior to passage, by an
independent agency. If the CBO is the agency, it should use
generally accepted accounting principles.  Second, the chairmen of the authorization and
appropriations panels, along with the heads of all federal
agencies, should be required to certify, under the same
penalties as in Sarbanes-Oxley, the accuracy of the numbers in
their budgets. (OK, the speech or debate clause of the
 Constitution  might cause problems with applying such a law to
committee chairs, but you get the idea.)  No Justification  Yes, there are important differences between public and
private accounting, and there is a vast literature on how to
tweak the rules to reflect those distinctions. But none of the
literature suggests that these differences justify the budgetary
practice of treating future liabilities as if they don’t exist.
Unless we develop a system in which federal officials personally
have skin in the game, no plan is likely to succeed.  What’s that you say? These requirements would be unduly
burdensome, creating enormous compliance costs and chilling
frank discussion of possible courses of action due to a fear of
personal liability? Well, sauce for the goose....  In the Congressional debate, you might believe that the
Republicans have the better of the argument or you might think
the Democrats are right. Either way, until your side produces a
set of actual numbers, clear and concise and susceptible to
analysis, it isn’t really trying to produce a budget. Rather,
both are engaging in the peculiarly childish form of wishful
thinking that our politics has become.  (Stephen L. Carter, a novelist, professor of law at Yale
and the author of “The Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the
Age of Obama,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column: Stephen L. Carter
at  stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 