-- 
Remy Cointreau Reports Quarterly Sales That Beat Estimates

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-07-21T09:10:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/remy-cointreau-reports-quarterly-sales-that-beat-estimates-2-.html
Remy Cointreau SA (RCO) , the maker of Remy
Martin, reported first-quarter sales that beat analysts’
estimates, boosted by higher cognac revenue.  So-called organic sales, which exclude the effect of
acquisitions and disposals, rose 23 percent, the company said
today in a statement. That beat the median estimate of eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News for a 5.8 percent increase.
Total revenue in the three months to June 30 rose to 198.6
million euros ($283.2 million) from 170.9 million euros.  “It was a blow-out quarter with sales far better than we
and the market expected,” Jamie Isenwater, an analyst at
Deutsche Bank in  London , said today. “Overall, numbers are much
better than we would ever have contemplated and we’d expect to
see consensus upgrades today.”  Remy’s shares rose as much as 2.70 euros, or 4.6 percent,
to 60.90 euros, and traded 4.2 percent higher at 60.67 euros as
of 10:59 a.m. in Paris.  Cognac sales rose 32 percent in the period as customers
selected more higher-priced bottles. Distillers including Paris-
based Remy are looking to sales of high-priced drinks in
emerging markets including  China  to drive growth and offset
sluggish demand in  Europe .  Marketing Investment  The company reported “double-digit growth” in Asia, the
U.S. and Europe. Sales of Metaxa, for which the company had to
take a gross impairment charge of 45 million euros last year,
are “gradually stabilizing” after two years of decline, the
company said. The Cointreau, Mount Gay Rum and St Rémy brands
saw “good growth,” it said.  “Although the markets have significantly improved, the
overall business environment remains unstable,” the company
said today. “Significant marketing investment” as well as the
“efficiency” of its distribution network helped growth in the
quarter.  Remy said on July 8 that it completed the sale of its
champagne unit to EPI group. The company will continue to
distribute the Piper-Heidsieck and Charles Heidsieck brands
globally, as well as Piper Sonoma in the U.S., it said today.
First-quarter champagne sales grew in the U.S. and  Asia , Remy
said, “with more contrasting results in Europe.”  The company expects to have a better understanding of
annual growth rates at the time of first-half results later in
the year, Finance Director Frederic Pflanz said today. “We’re
doing fine at the moment,” he said on a conference call. “I
don’t think the results should be extrapolated for the rest of
the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 