-- 
Renault in Russia Seen No. 1 Foreigner in Market Overtaking Germany: Cars

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-07-22T14:30:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/renault-in-russia-seen-increasing-share-as-no-1-foreigner-cars.html
Renault SA (RNO) , which this week outlined
plans to boost its Russian supplier network and produce engines
with local partner OAO AvtoVAZ, has grabbed a lead in the fast-
growing market that Volkswagen and Ford may struggle to follow.  Chief Executive Officer Carlos Ghosn stands to gain more
from his three-year pursuit of cooperation with AvtoVAZ after
Russia this year introduced regulations penalizing carmakers
relying on imported parts.  “The investment seemed risky in 2008 and worse in 2009,
but now it looks as if Russia could turn out to be Renault’s
 China ,” Deutsche Bank analyst Gaetan Toulemonde said. China’s
ascent to become the world’s biggest auto market has boosted
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) , the country’s leading overseas carmaker.  Renault, which paid $1 billion for its 25 percent stake in
Russia’s largest carmaker, wants to use  AvtoVAZ (AVAZ) ’s Soviet-era
Lada brand to slash costs by sharing production and suppliers.
Japanese affiliate Nissan Motor Co. will introduce a Russian-
built car based on the no-frills Renault Logan range in 2012,
and AvtoVAZ may begin making engines and gearboxes for all three
brands the following year, the French carmaker said July 19.  Under rules implemented this year, carmakers assembling
vehicles in Russia to avoid  import duties  must now also pledge
to source engines, gearboxes and 70 percent of components
locally to avoid tariffs of up to 30 percent on overseas parts
shipments. A previous decree included lower targets for Russian-
made content and no specific requirement for powertrains.  Rising Incomes  “In the past,  Russia ’s domestic carmakers made pretty much
everything for themselves, so there was no real supply chain for
the foreigners,” London-based Barclays Capital analyst  Michael Tyndall  said. “Unlike Renault, many of them waited to see what
would happen.”  Rising incomes are increasing potential spoils for foreign
carmakers, with 10 million Russian households already above the
$50,000 threshold. The country’s auto market is set to expand 21
percent to 2.3 million vehicles in 2011, said Emmanuel Quidet, a
Moscow-based partner with Ernst & Young. The consulting firm
forecasts Russia will overtake  Germany  as  Europe ’s biggest auto
market in 2015 with 3.4 million deliveries.  Renault began work to increase Russian purchasing soon
after its 2008 AvtoVAZ stake purchase, while rivals including
Volkswagen and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  are only now moving to widen
assembly with local partners. Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW agreed
last month to build cars with OAO GAZ, ultimately targeting
joint production of 110,000 units, after expanding its own
facility south of Moscow to produce 150,000 vehicles annually.
Ford, which currently makes models including the Focus compact
in Russia, signed a similar accord with OAO Sollers in June,
with an eventual capacity of 350,000 vehicles.  Lada Dominance  AvtoVAZ accounted for 45 percent of the country’s 2010
production of 1.21 million vehicles thanks to Lada’s 23.6
percent market share. Renault, Nissan and AvtoVAZ together
target 1.6 million Russian deliveries within five years, for a
combined 40 percent of the market. The planned purchase of
bankrupt carmaker IzhAvto this year will add production capacity
of 300,000 vehicles,  AvtoVAZ (AVAZ)  said in December.  Renault and Nissan have a combined 11 percent share of the
Russian market, compared with 7 percent for Volkswagen’s brands.
Renault has 130 outlets in 86 Russian cities, including all
those with 300,000 inhabitants or more.  Increasing Stake  Russian-made parts account for 56 percent of components
used to assemble Renault models including the Logan and Sandero
hatchback on existing Moscow production lines, the carmaker said
this week, pledging to lift local content to 74 percent by 2013
and add to its pool of 40 accredited Russian suppliers.  “Renault’s main rivals are closer to 30 percent, so it
clearly has the advantage there,” Deutsche Bank’s Toulemonde
said.  The Renault-Nissan alliance is in talks with AvtoVAZ
shareholders Troika Dialog and state-owned Russian Technologies
Corp. to purchase another 25 percent holding, for a total
controlling stake of 50 percent plus one share.  Nissan will produce its first sedan using the Logan’s
technical platform on a shared  production line  being built at
AvtoVAZ’s factory in Togliatti, Bruno Ancelin, Renault’s Russia
and Eurasia chief, said in interview this week.  AvtoVAZ and its partners also plan to invest in a
powertrain plant at the site to produce gearboxes and 1.6-liter
gasoline engines for Renault, Lada and Nissan models, Ancelin
said. The plant will produce as many as 400,000 engines
annually, he said. That’s twice the capacity of a powertrain
facility planned by Ford and Sollers.  Competitive Edge  The plan illustrates the competitive edge AvtoVAZ offers
because rivals with smaller market shares would struggle to
justify the investment, said London-based Credit Suisse analyst
Erich Hauser, adding that Renault shares haven’t priced in the
potential Russian gains. The stock has dropped 16 percent this
year, compared with Volkswagen’s 21 percent increase and a 1.5
percent advance in the Bloomberg Europe 500 Autos Index.  “Ford and VW are increasing their production too, but
nothing these guys do will match the scale of AvtoVAZ,” Hauser
said. “Russia stands out as one area where  Carlos Ghosn  has
demonstrated real foresight.”  Still, Ghosn faces a challenge to deliver the savings
promised by AvtoVAZ’s size while rolling out new Lada models to
stem the brand’s declining market share. The first two Ladas
based on Renault’s Logan are to be introduced next year.  Yaroslav Batashev, a 29-year-old manager in a Moscow
consumer goods company who owned a Lada 2114 for three years as
his first car, said Renault should avoid changing the brand too
drastically.  “Its strongest side is the low purchase price and
servicing costs,” Batashev said. “It’s important that the
Renault partnership doesn’t alter that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Togliatti, Russia, via the Paris newsroom at
   lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  