-- 
Trichet Signals EU to Guarantee Greek Collateral in Case of Debt Default

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-07-21T21:23:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/trichet-signals-eu-to-guarantee-greek-collateral-in-case-of-debt-default.html
Jean-Claude Trichet  said the
 European Central Bank  may be able to accept Greek collateral in
the event of a default because euro-area states have agreed to
provide guarantees.  Speaking in Brussels after euro-area leaders agreed on a
159 billion euro ($229 billion) plan to stem the Greek debt
crisis, ECB President Trichet said heads of government had
agreed to back Greek bonds up to the value of 35 billion euros
in refinancing operations in the event that the country is
judged in default on its loans.  “We have to lend to sound counterparties, and we will have
the backing for our own refinancing operations,” Trichet said.
“I can tell you that the amount of capital that has been
accepted by heads of state and governments is 35 billion
euros.”  Prompted by the worsening of the debt crisis that has
threatened to engulf  Italy , leaders empowered their 440-billion
euro rescue fund to buy debt across stressed euro nations after
eight hours of talks in Brussels, and risked default by
persuading private sector investors to help foot the bill. The
ECB softened its stance on a default, which may be declared by
credit rating companies if the debt swaps and buybacks occur.  ‘Everything Is a Compromise’  Trichet said he “won’t prejudge” whether Greek bonds will
be classified as being in default. The guarantees backstop the
ECB “in case there is anything that would hurt the collateral
to have the overall eligibility for our own refinancing
operations.”  Until the summit, ECB officials had stuck to the mantra
that they were against any default, sparking concern that the
bank would refuse to finance Greek banks in such a scenario.  “The ECB pushed the argument as far as it could,” said
Laurent Bilke, an economist at Nomura International Plc in
 London . “It is  Europe ; everything is a compromise.”  Trichet may gain solace from the bailout fund’s wider
remit, which he had repeatedly sought since the ECB suspended
its own bond buying program in April amid concern it was doing
the work of governments.  Germany  previously rejected broadening
the European Financial Stability Facility, whose size was beefed
up to its original lending target.  The facility can now buy debt directly from investors on
the basis of a mutual decision by EFSF member states and an ECB
declaration of “exceptional financial market circumstances.”
EU President Herman van Rompuy said the purchases could be used
to stabilize markets as the ECB was doing or to help countries
retire debt at a discount.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  