-- 
Roche Raises Full-Year Outlook; Sees Core Earnings Per Share Up About 10%

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-07-21T16:03:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/roche-raises-full-year-outlook-sees-core-earnings-per-share-up-about-10-.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s
biggest maker of cancer drugs, raised its profit forecast,
citing savings from a cost-cutting plan, even as second-quarter
sales slumped.  Earnings per share excluding some items will rise by about
10 percent in local currencies this year, the Basel,
Switzerland-based company said today in a  statement . Roche on
Feb. 2 had forecast a profit increase in the high single-digits.  Roche is counting on cost reductions to bolster profit as
revenue from its best-selling medicine Avastin declined. Roche
in November said it would eliminate 4,800 jobs to offset drug-
development setbacks and price pressure from changes to health-
care systems in the U.S. and Europe.  “It’s a smaller but slimmer Roche,”  Jack Scannell , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. in  London , said by
telephone today. “Had we just seen today’s sales numbers, it
would be disappointing.” He rates Roche’s shares “market
perform.”  Sales fell 11 percent to 21.4 billion Swiss francs ($26.1
billion) in the second quarter, excluding revenue from the
Tamiflu influenza treatment, hurt by the franc’s surge against
the dollar and euro. Analysts predicted 22.2 billion francs, the
average of 18 estimates. Sales rose 2 percent in local
currencies.  Stronger Franc  Roche rose 1.80 Swiss francs, or 1.3 percent, to 141.50
francs at the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in Zurich. Before
today, the shares had returned 2.5 percent in the past year
including reinvested dividends, compared with a 18 percent
return for the Bloomberg  Europe  Pharmaceutical Index.  Revenue this year will rise at low single-digit rates in
local currencies, in line with the market, the company said.  Helped by the acquisition of Genentech Inc., the cost-
reduction plan saved 950 million Swiss francs ($1.16 billion) in
the first half and is on track to save 1.8 billion francs this
year, Roche said. The annual savings goal is about 2.4 billion
francs as of 2012.  Roche generated more than a third of its sales in the U.S.
last year. The franc strengthened by 28 percent against the
dollar in the 12 months ended June 30, reducing the value of
revenue in U.S. currency. The franc gained about 8.1 percent
against the euro.  First-half profit dropped 5.8 percent to 5.15 billion
francs from 5.47 billion a year earlier. Roche doesn’t report
quarterly earnings.  Avastin Forecast  Second-quarter revenue from Avastin fell 24 percent to 1.31
billion francs. A  U.S. Food and Drug Administration  panel
recommended against using the drug for  breast cancer  on June 29.
Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  will make a final ruling on the
medicine’s use.  Roche is sticking to its peak Avastin sales forecast of 7
billion francs, Chief Executive Officer Severin Schwan said in a
press briefing today in Basel.  Breast-cancer treatment pertuzumab also has the potential
to be a blockbuster drug with more than $1 billion in annual
sales, Schwan said in an interview. Roche will ask regulators to
approve the drug this year after a late-stage clinical trial
showed it delayed the worsening of the disease. The trial
combined the medicine with chemotherapy and Roche’s older
Herceptin treatment.  Such successor product combinations will help Roche combat
price pressure from copies of its older medicines, including
Herceptin, Chief Financial Officer Alan Hippe said in an
interview. Cheaper copies are likely to result in “moderate”
price reductions, Hippe said.  Seeking Approval  Roche expects to file three drugs for approval this year,
including pertuzumab, vismodegib for advanced basal cell
carcinoma and Zelboraf, or vemurafenib, a metastatic melanoma
medicine already submitted to regulators in the second quarter.  The Swiss drugmaker said it aims to increase its dividend
in line with core earnings per share growth, at least
maintaining last year’s dividend in francs.  Second-quarter revenue for the pharmaceutical division fell
16 percent to 8.1 billion francs, while the diagnostics division
posted a 10 percent decrease to 2.45 billion francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Zurich at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  