-- 
Roth & Rau Slumps in Frankfurt After Withdrawing Profit Forecast

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-07-22T16:31:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/roth-rau-withdraws-annual-forecast-lowers-2h-expectations.html
Roth & Rau AG (R8R) , a German solar
equipment maker, fell the most in two weeks in Frankfurt trading
after withdrawing its full-year earnings forecast amid
“considerable insecurity” in the markets.  Roth & Rau slid 2.4 percent, the biggest one-day decline
since July 5, to 21.90 euros at the 5:30 p.m. close.  The Hohenstein-based company can’t issue a reliable annual
forecast because of “considerable insecurity in the market,”
Vice President of Sales and Marketing Silvia Roth said today in
a telephone interview. “We can’t say with certainty when it
will pick up again.”  First-half earnings before interest and tax will be
“significantly negative,” the company said yesterday in a
statement, citing “deterioration in the overall industry
climate.” Customers in  Asia , where Roth & Rau generates about
90 percent of its sales, have delayed or canceled orders, Roth
said.  German solar companies including  SMA Solar Technology AG (S92) 
and Q-Cells AG have fought declining sales in Europe, where
Germany, Italy and  France  have reduced solar subsidies over the
past 12 months. Roth & Rau, which agreed to a takeover from
Switzerland’s  Meyer Burger Technology AG (MBTN)  this year, supplies
solar-module makers in Asia that export to Europe.  Meyer Burger shares fell 6.2 percent to 31.10 Swiss francs
in Zurich.  China  Scraps Orders  Roth & Rau won orders valued at a combined 29 million euros
($42 million) in the second quarter, down from 83 million euros
in the prior three months, Roth said. Three Chinese customers
canceled projects worth 17 million euros, she said.  China’s solar industry is struggling with falling prices
for photovoltaic panels and their components as manufacturers
try to shift stock while demand declines in  Europe .  “Several Chinese companies have put their expansion plans
on hold,” Roth said. “We’re generating sales later than
planned.”  In a bid to reduce costs, Roth & Rau cut 55 jobs earlier
this year, Roth said.  The company previously forecast full-year consolidated
sales of as much as 325 million euros and an Ebit margin of 4
percent to 7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  