-- 
Russia’s Economy to Accelerate After Second-Quarter Slowdown

-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-07-21T16:20:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/russia-s-economic-growth-slowed-to-3-7-in-second-quarter.html
Russia ’s economy slowed in the
second quarter, according to Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach , who expects growth to accelerate in the final six
months of 2011.  Gross domestic product expanded 3.7 percent from a year
earlier in the April-June period, less than the 4.1 percent
growth in the first three months of 2011, Klepach told reporters
today in Moscow, without giving an explanation for the slowdown.  “We expect a pickup in growth in the second half, in part
thanks to demand-driven investment,” Klepach said. Agricultural
output will also help growth accelerate after the worst drought
in at least half a century in 2010 destroyed harvests.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, is lagging
behind growth in emerging-market peers Brazil, India and  China ,
even as prices for its commodity exports rise. Policymakers
should target growth of at least 8 percent within 5 years to
keep pace with the other so-called BRIC countries, President
 Dmitry Medvedev  said in January. GDP expanded 4 percent last
year after a record 7.8 percent contraction in 2009.  The ruble advanced 0.9 percent against the dollar, the most
since July 13, to 27.7400 at the 7 p.m. close of trading in
Moscow. The Micex Index of 30 stocks advanced 1.6 percent to
1729.00, the biggest daily gain since July 7.  Oil Prices , Harvest  “We remain bullish on economic acceleration in the second
half on the back of higher oil prices,” which may reach $125 a
barrel by year-end, said  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of research at
BNP Paribas SA in Moscow.  A good harvest should also provide a “strong rebound” in
the agricultural sector, Tsepliaeva wrote today in an e-mailed
note to clients  The grain crop may reach 90 million metric tons in 2011,
allowing Russia to “regain our position in the global grain
market,” Agriculture Minister  Yelena Skrynnik  said today in
Moscow. The grain harvest fell to 60.9 million tons last year.  The  Agriculture Ministry  raised its export forecast for the
year beginning July 1 to 18 million tons from 15 million to 17
million tons, Skrynnik said. Russia halted grain exports last
year to stem food-price inflation. It lifted the ban from July
1.  Retail Sales  Retail sales are exceeding estimates as a slowdown in
inflation bolsters household spending power, according to
Klepach, who oversees macroeconomic forecasting. Sales are also
benefiting from increased  consumer credit , a lower savings rate
and higher disposable incomes, he added.  Real disposable incomes rose 0.7 percent in June after
falling in each of the preceding three months, the  Federal
Statistics Service  said July 19.  “The recent pickup in real wages should feed through to
retail sales as the year progresses,” Daniel Salter and
Vladimir Kuznetsov, analysts at UniCredit SpA, said today in an
e-mailed note. “The upcoming elections should lead to greater
government expenditure, while changes to social taxes in 2012
should give companies more flexibility to increase wages.”  Broadcaster CTC Media, food retailers OAO Magnit and O’Key
Group LLC, mobile operator OAO Mobile TeleSystems, technology
holding AFK Sistema, and lender OAO Sberbank may profit, they
wrote.  Full-Year Forecasts  The government’s 4.2 percent growth forecast for 2011 may
be revised when the Economy Ministry presents updated
projections in late August, Klepach said, adding that there is a
“range of estimates” from 4 percent to 4.5 percent.  Economists expect Russia’s economy to expand 4.6 percent
this year and 4.5 percent in 2012, according to the median of 17
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  GDP may expand 4.5 percent in the second half after growing
3.9 percent in the first six months of the year, Economy
Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  said today in Moscow.  The government maintains its 6.5 percent to 7.5 percent
forecast for full-year inflation, according to Klepach, who said
the final figure may be nearer the lower end of that range.
Prices advanced 9.4 percent in June from a year earlier, the
statistics service said July 5.  Ruble Risks  The ruble is unlikely to weaken significantly next year,
Klepach said. Still, a shrinking current-account surplus may
turn into a deficit in 2013 or 2014, depending on global
commodity prices and import volumes. Russia had a current
account surplus of $32.4 billion in the first quarter, according
to central-bank data.  “There are risks,” Klepach said. “It’s also possible to
avoid sharp devaluations, but here a lot depends on the global
economy.”  While an even or slightly negative current account balance
won’t necessarily cause a significant weakening of the ruble, it
would excerpt pressure on the Russian currency, Klepach said.  “When there are big capital outflows, it’s harder to
maintain the ruble rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 