-- 
SABMiller First-Quarter Sales Beat Estimates on Latin America and Europe

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-07-21T11:05:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/sabmiller-first-quarter-sales-beat-estimates-on-latin-america-and-europe.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-
biggest brewer by volume, reported first-quarter sales growth
that beat estimates, led by gains in  Latin America  and  Europe .  The volume of lager sold by the London-based company
increased 5 percent on a so-called organic basis, which excludes
acquisitions and disposals, SABMiller said today. The median
estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 4.1 percent.  The brewer, which is seeking to buy Australia’s  Foster’s
Group Ltd. (FGL)  for about A$9.5 billion ($10.2 billion), said its
financial performance in the quarter matched its own
expectations. Organic lager volume rose 6 percent in Latin
America and 5 percent in Europe, beating the median analyst
estimates of 4.3 percent and 2.4 percent, respectively.  “SAB is a well-run business with excellent top-line growth
prospects,” analysts at MF Global said in a note today. They
have a “sell” recommendation on the stock, citing concern over
the possible acquisition of Foster’s and a price-to-earnings
ratio which exceeds that of the peer group.  SABMiller fell 25 pence, or 1.1 percent, to 2,290 pence at
11:35 a.m. in  London  as shares declined across Europe. The
shares closed at a record price on July 13 as investor concern
about a more expensive bid for Foster’s eased. Buying the brewer
would cut SABMiller’s exposure to emerging markets, and provide
the company with about half the Australian beer market.  Africa,  Asia   Organic lager volume in the first quarter increased 15
percent in Africa and 11 percent in Asia, SABMiller said.  SABMiller has the largest exposure among global brewers to
emerging markets. Beermakers are expanding in developing
countries as government spending cuts to address budget deficits
in Europe and the U.S. hold back consumer spending.  “Volume growth reflects the strength of our brand
portfolio and commercial execution, growth in  consumer spending 
in many developing markets, and a relatively weak comparative
quarter in the prior year,” SABMiller said in the statement.  Total organic revenue rose 7 percent at constant currency
rates, helped by selective price increases, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 