-- 
Cohen’s SAC Capital Seeks to Disqualify Law Firm Kasowitz in Fairfax Suit

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-07-21T21:42:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/sac-capital-seeks-to-disqualify-kasowitz-benson-law-firm-in-fairfax-suit.html
Steven A. Cohen ’s SAC Capital
Advisors LP asked a judge to disqualify the law firm that sued
it and other hedge funds on grounds the firm’s investigators
talked with a defendant who was represented by counsel.  SAC Capital joined a motion brought by Morgan Keegan & Co.
to kick Kasowitz Benson Torres & Friedman LLP off the suit
because its investigators posed as managing directors of a sham
hedge fund and contacted John Gwynn, then a Morgan Keegan
analyst, even after the suit was filed and Gwynn had a lawyer.  “The Kasowitz firm continued trying to set up a meeting
with Gwynn despite knowing he was represented by counsel and
despite an express request not to communicate with him,”
according to the July 12 motion that was unsealed July 19.  Kasowitz Benson, based in  New York , filed the suit in state
court in Morristown,  New Jersey , in July 2006 on behalf of
Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd, a Toronto-based insurer.  Fairfax accuses SAC Capital and other hedge funds of
conspiring to spread negative information about the company
because they were betting its stock price would decline. It
seeks more than $8 billion in damages.  Evidence-Gathering  Five years after the complaint was filed, the parties have
been completing the discovery, or evidence-gathering, stage of
the litigation.  The other funds named in the suit, including  James Chanos ’s
Kynikos Associates LP and  Daniel Loeb ’s Third Point LLC, both
based in New York, also joined in Morgan Keegan’s effort to
disqualify Kasowitz Benson. The hedge funds, including  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based SAC Capital, have denied Fairfax’s
accusations.  The complaint includes a racketeering, or RICO, allegation.  “This meritless motion misrepresents the facts and the
law,” Mitchell Schrage, a Kasowitz Benson partner, said in an
e-mailed statement. “It is nothing but an effort to distract
attention from the fact defendants have no valid defense to
Fairfax’s RICO and other claims or the enormous damages flowing
from those claims.”  The funds said in the motion that Fairfax wanted to talk to
Gwynn because one of the insurer’s accusations is he leaked
information to the hedge funds about his negative Fairfax
reports before they were published.  ‘Strategic Alternatives’  Morgan Keegan fired Gwynn in 2008 for disclosing research
on Fairfax to selected clients before publication. He has since
died.  Morgan Keegan, based in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , is a unit of
Birmingham, Alabama-based bank company  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) 
In June, Regions said it was considering “strategic
alternatives” for the unit after paying $200 million to settle
claims over subprime mortgage-backed securities.  Jeffrey Kaplan and Kenneth Cain, the investigators hired by
Kasowitz Benson and its investigative arm, KBTF Consulting &
Investigations LLC, now KBTF Group LLC, wanted to meet with the
insurance analyst to elicit “admissions damaging to Gwynn and
Morgan Keegan outside the presence of their counsel,” according
to the motion.  Kaplan and Cain told Morgan Keegan and Gwynn that the sham
fund, Blackwood Group Capital Partners, was backed by a wealthy
family and that they wanted to talk to an analyst about
investing in the insurance sector, according to Morgan Keegan.
Blackwood Group was based in Greenwich,  Connecticut , the
investigators said, according to the filing.  Wealthy Family  “There were no wealthy family members backing Blackwood,”
Morgan Keegan wrote. “No one intended to do business with
Morgan Keegan. Kaplan and Cain were not investors. They were
investigators operating at the behest of the Kasowitz firm and
its investigative arm.”  Kaplan, who is a lawyer, and Cain first met with Gwynn at
Morgan Keegan’s Memphis office in June 2006, according to the
filing.  The next month, before the suit was filed, Kaplan and Cain
“isolated” Gwynn in a hotel room at Morgan Keegan’s
invitation-only insurance conference in Beaver Creek,  Colorado ,
and asked him to leak research reports to them in return for
business from Blackwood Group, according to Morgan Keegan.  Gwynn refused but said “there would nevertheless be a call
regarding the research report,” according to the filing.  ‘Sinister Twist’  “Kaplan tried to put a sinister twist to this innocent
statement, suggesting that it was a promise to provide advance
notice of Gwynn’s research,” according to the filing, referring
to sworn testimony Kaplan gave in the case.  The investigators continued to contact Gwynn after the suit
was filed and after Morgan Keegan and Gwynn’s lawyers told them
not to, according to the motion. In September 2006, Kaplan sent
Gwynn an e-mail seeking to meet to discuss Blackwood Group
business, according to Morgan Keegan.  In his sworn testimony, Kaplan at first denied that his
contact with Gwynn had anything to do with the  law firm ’s effort
to get the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  to probe Morgan
Keegan, according to the filing.  “After a break, however, Kaplan changed his story,”
Morgan Keegan wrote, and said he tried to meet with Gwynn “at
the direction of FBI.”  Kaplan said he contacted Gwynn at the behest of the federal
agency, Patrick J. Monaghan Jr., a lawyer for Kaplan at Beattie
Padovano LLC in Montvale, New Jersey, said in a phone interview.  “In this case he was an investigator,” and not working
as a lawyer, Monaghan said. “What he did was appropriate.”  Monaghan said he is also representing Cain, who has been
subpoenaed to testify.  FBI Request  “Kaplan testified repeatedly and clearly that his post-
suit e-mail to Gwynn was sent at the request and direction of
the FBI,” Schrage, the Kasowitz Benson partner, said in an e-
mail. “It was not sent at the direction of anyone at, or
for, Kasowitz or Fairfax.”  John Leubsdorf, a Rutgers Law School professor in  Newark ,
New Jersey, filed an expert opinion in the case saying that
Kasowitz Benson violated New Jersey legal-ethics rules through
Kaplan’s contacting Gwynn after the suit was filed.  Kaplan said in his sworn testimony that he had reason to
believe Gwynn was represented by a lawyer, according to the
filing.  The case is  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH)  v. SAC Capital
Management LLC, L-2032-06, Superior Court of New Jersey, Morris
County (Morristown).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in  Brooklyn , New York, federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 