-- 
China’s Manufacturing May Contract for First Time in a Year, PMI Signals

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-21T07:40:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/hsbc-china-manufacturing-index-slump-in-july-signals-slowdown-worsening.html
China ’s manufacturing may contract
for the first time in a year as output and new orders drop,
preliminary data for a purchasing managers’ index indicated.  The gauge fell to 48.9 for July from a final reading of
50.1 for June, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said in a
statement today. The final July reading is due Aug. 1.  Today’s data adds to evidence that growth in the world’s
second-largest economy is slowing on Premier Wen Jiabao’s
campaign to tame consumer and property prices. The  International
Monetary Fund  said in a report released late yesterday in
 Washington  that risks for the economy include the threat of
faster-than-expected inflation, a real-estate bubble, and bad
loans from stimulus spending.  “The data are another sign that the monetary tightening
measures that commenced last October are biting,” said  Tim Condon , the Singapore-based head of Asia research at ING Groep
NV. “If there is a concern that growth is slowing too much,
past practice is that there will be a pause in the tightening.”  Stocks in China fell for a fourth day. The benchmark
Shanghai Composite Index closed 1 percent lower at 2,765.89, the
biggest decline since July 12.  The yuan rose to a 17-year high after the central bank set
the strongest  reference rate  since a dollar peg was scrapped
exactly six years ago. It was 0.12 percent stronger at 6.4516
per dollar at 3:28 p.m. in Shanghai, the biggest advance in a
week, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  Cost Pressure  Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch, said the HSBC survey may be “more downward-
biased” than an official PMI because the average size of the
businesses covered is smaller. Such companies “are under
increasing pressure” from labor costs and to secure capital, Lu
said. He advised investors to “not overly respond” to the data.  The government has raised  interest rates  five times since
mid-October, boosted lenders’ reserve requirements to a record
level and imposed curbs on property investment and home
purchases.  Inflation, which has breached the government’s 2011 target
of 4 percent every month this year, accelerated to 6.4 percent
in June from a year earlier, the highest level in three years.  The IMF said in the report that  China’s economy  “remains
on a solid footing, propelled by vigorous domestic and external
demand.” The Washington-based lender’s 24 directors also
“generally agreed” that a stronger yuan would help rebalance
the China’s economy toward domestic demand.  Slowing Demand  HSBC’s preliminary index, known as the Flash PMI, is based
on 85 percent to 90 percent of responses to a survey of
executives in more than 400 companies. Output in July contracted
at a faster rate, export orders shrank at a slower pace and the
gauge of new orders dropped below 50, the dividing line between
expansion and contraction, today’s data showed.  Manufacturing in some industries is being hit by slowing
demand. Li Ning Co., China’s largest sportswear maker and
retailer, said July 7 its first-half sales dropped by about 5
percent. The China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said
July 8 that vehicle sales may increase about 5 percent this year,
compared with an earlier estimate for 10 percent to 15 percent
growth, due to lower demand for commercial autos.  The preliminary number has matched the final reading twice
since HSBC began publishing the series in February. If it’s
confirmed on Aug. 1, the index will have dropped to its lowest
level since March 2009. It last fell below 50 in July 2010.  Economists at  Societe Generale  SA and Barclays Capital say
that seasonal factors may have contributed to the contraction in
the preliminary reading, as manufacturing tends to slow in the
summer. The index declined in June and July 2010 before
rebounding in August.  Testing Threshold  The official manufacturing PMI, released by the National
Bureau of Statistics and the China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing, last showed a contraction in February 2009. The July
reading of the index, which covers more than 800 companies in 20
industries, is due to be released on Aug. 1.  Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based economist with Societe Generale
estimates the federation’s index will decline to 50 from 50.9 in
June and rebound in August.  Barclays Capital  economist Chang Jian also forecasts a drop “possibly testing the 50
threshold,” with a gradual recovery in the third quarter.  Today’s data “implies that June’s rebound in industrial
production was just temporary,”  Qu Hongbin , chief China
economist at HSBC in  Hong Kong , said in a statement. “We expect
industrial growth to decelerate in the coming months as
tightening measures continue to filter through.”  ‘More Complicated’ Situation  Industrial output climbed 15.1 percent in June from a year
earlier, the fastest pace since May 2010. Gross domestic product
climbed 9.5 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier,
slowing from 9.7 percent in the first quarter.  China’s companies will face a “more complicated”
situation in the second half of this year from rising raw
material, energy and labor costs, the Ministry of Industry and
 Information Technology  said today. Still, output growth of 13 to
15 percent is “possible and reasonable” for the rest of the
year, ministry spokesman  Zhu Hongren  said at a briefing in
Beijing.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Jing Jin in
 Shanghai , and Huang Zhe, Victoria Ruan in Beijing. Editors:
Nerys Avery, Ken McCallum  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  