-- 
Scania Profit Misses Estimates on Brazil

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-07-21T12:21:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/scania-profit-misses-estimates-on-brazil.html
Scania AB (SCVB) , the Swedish truckmaker
controlled by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , reported second-quarter profit that
missed analysts’ estimates as orders in  Brazil  slowed.  Scania fell as much as 7.4 percent in Stockholm trading.
Net income in the quarter rose to 2.43 billion kronor ($380
million) from 2.37 billion kronor a year earlier, the company
said in a statement. Profit had been estimated at 2.73 billion
kronor in a Bloomberg survey of 11 analysts. Order bookings
declined “significantly” in  Latin America , mainly because of a
weakening in Brazil, Scania’s largest market.  “Brazil is really cooling down, which may be a bit earlier
than we had feared,” Carl Holmquist, an analyst at Danske Bank
who recommends investors buy the shares, said by telephone.
“This is having a negative impact on the operating margin and
will push down the share today.”  Scania, based in Soedertaelje, Sweden, has the best
operating margin in the business and is considering a merger
with  MAN SE (MAN)  in  Germany  to create  Europe ’s largest manufacturer
of commercial vehicles.  Scania dropped 5.5 percent, or 7.3 kronor, to 126 kronor as
of 2:13 p.m.  Sales climbed 12 percent to 23 billion kronor. Scania’s
operating margin declined to 14.4 percent from 17 percent a year
earlier. Holmquist said he had expected the margin to remain at
17 percent. Total orders rose 8 percent to 22,646 trucks and
buses.  Supply-Chain Disruptions  Scania experienced disruptions in its supply chain in the
first half of the year, Chief Executive Officer Leif Oestling
said. This “impacted the manufacturing and resulted in higher
costs in order to ensure quality and delivery precision,” he
said in the statement. “There is a continued risk of
bottlenecks.”  Squeezed supply include lack of enough tires after
manufacturers such as Michelin & Cie scaled back production in
2009, Oestling said in an interview in Stockholm today.  “We can’t send out the vehicles with any tires,” he said.
“Customers are very specific about the brands and the
dimensions they want.”  Registrations of heavy commercial vehicles in the European
Union rose 62 percent this year through May compared with the
same period last year, to 100,089 units, the European Automobile
Manufacturers Association said last month.  Scania was first among European truckmakers to publish
second-quarter figures. Swedish rival  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  will report
earnings tomorrow.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s largest truckmaker,
is scheduled to publish figures July 27, while MAN is scheduled
to report July 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  