-- 
Scene Last Night: Sam Calagione, Dogfish Head Gluten-Free Beer at Birreria

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-07-21T14:55:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/scene-last-night-sam-calagione-dogfish-head-gluten-free-beer-at-birreria.html
Tweason’ale was orangey-pink in
color, light and sweet in taste.  The new, gluten-free beer from Dogfish Head Craft Brewery
Inc. contains buckwheat honey and a lot of strawberries grown in
southern  Delaware . It won’t be released until November, but it
made an early appearance last night on Eataly’s rooftop
restaurant Birreria.  Dogfish Head’s founder and owner, Sam Calagione, introduced
the beer at a party for the new edition of his book, “Brewing
Up a Business,” published by John Wiley.  Leave it to a master of event marketing (the chapter in his
book on the subject is titled “Publicity Stunts (Poorly
Named)” to host an overachieving marketing event. In addition
to the book, the new brew, and the Dogfish Head polo shirt
Calagione was wearing (a collaboration with  Patagonia ), the
party promoted Birreria, Calagione’s new venture with  Mario Batali  and two Italian breweries,  Baladin  and Birra del Borgo.  The place, which opened last month, is already so popular
that the party was scheduled from 4 to 6 p.m. to avoid taking
tables out of commission during prime time. At 6:15 p.m., 25
people were waiting to get into the restaurant.  The views included the Flatiron and Empire State buildings.
The menu was designed, Calagione said, to pair well with beer. A
chestnut beer brewed at Birreria came out with platters of fried
shiitake mushrooms. The Tweason’ale was paired with a salad of
Bibb lettuce, wax beans and new potatoes.  It felt very fancy. All the beers were served from carafes
and poured into glasses that looked like the beakers in
chemistry class, with a stem attached. They were designed by Teo
Musso, the founder of Baladin.  Bubbling Liquids  Calagione gave guests a tour of the brewery at Birreria,
which didn’t take long. It’s in a glass-enclosed room near the
maitre d’s station and can fit just half a dozen people
comfortably.  Over the sound of bubbling liquids, and standing next to a
fermenter made by the Canby, Oregon, manufacturer JV Northwest
Inc., Calagione talked about a few of the recipes he and his
partners have developed for Birreria’s brewery.  “We were downstairs at Eataly, and Mario brought out a
whole variety of peppercorns and these crazy pepper crushers,”
Calagione said. The resulting beer, Lisa, will be available next
week and features three different peppercorns including “a pine
comb-shaped variety that has a minty taste,” he said.  Each time he finished a chapter of his book, he rewarded
himself with a glass of beer. “Usually a vintage beer, say a
stout with 18% alcohol,” Calagione said. He keeps about 150
bottles in his beer cellar.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 