-- 
Scott Thomas Uncovers Sinister Secret; ‘Another Earth’: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-07-21T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/scott-thomas-uncovers-sinister-secret-another-earth-movies.html
In a summer season filled with
gargantuan robots, warring mutants and a green superhero, along
comes a movie to remind us that there’s no substitute for great
human drama.  Despite its ethereal title and “Twilight Zone” aura,
“ Another Earth ” is at heart a story about damaged people
trying to connect with each other and the world around them. A
small film that looks at the big picture, it offers an intensely
personal vision of awe and wonder.  The movie brilliantly intertwines stories about the
discovery of a planet that mirrors Earth and a young woman’s
quest for redemption following a tragic accident. The credit
goes to first-time feature director Mike Cahill and Brit
Marling, who co-wrote the screenplay with Cahill and stars in
the film.  Marling gives an achingly raw performance as Rhoda, whose
dreams of becoming an astrophysicist are destroyed when she gets
drunk and crashes her car into another vehicle. The collision
kills a mother and her young son and severely injures the father
(William Mapother, matching Marling’s brooding mood), a composer
and music professor at a local college.  Released after four years in prison, Rhoda moves back in
with her parents and takes a menial job as a high-school
janitor. She yearns to apologize to the survivor, John, who has
become a recluse in his dilapidated country house.  Space Trip  Instead, she ends up becoming his housekeeper without
revealing her true identity. The decision backfires after their
relationship turns romantic and she enters an essay contest
offering the winner a free spaceship ride to visit a
doppelganger on the other Earth.  The movie includes a couple of unforgettable scenes. One
takes place in a college classroom, where John plays a saw whose
eerie spiritual sound evokes a Gregorian chant. In the other,
Rhoda confesses her role in the accident to John through a teary
parable.  Cahill shot the film with the same hand-held cameras he has
used for several documentaries, making “Another Earth” as
intimate as possible. The glimpses of Earth 2 are low-tech but
highly effective.  Two other notable contributions are the eclectic soundtrack
by the indie rock band Fall on Your Sword and the eccentric
narration by NASA astrophysicist Richard Berendzen, who delivers
godlike pronouncements about the nature of the universe.  “Another Earth,” from  Fox Searchlight Pictures , opens
tomorrow in New York and  Los Angeles . Rating: ****  ‘Sarah’s Key’  In the summer of 1942, French police rounded up 13,000
Parisian Jews and herded most of them into a cycling stadium,
where they were held for several days in sweltering heat with
little access to water, food or medical aid. Almost all the
prisoners were eventually shipped to concentration camps and
killed.  The Vel’ d’hiv Roundup is the centerpiece of “ Sarah’s
Key ,” a searching drama about Julia, an American journalist in
Paris (Kristin Scott Thomas) whose investigation into those mass
arrests uncovers a dark secret about her husband’s family.  Director Gilles Paquet-Brenner switches back and forth
between 1942 and 2009, when Julia, her workaholic husband
(Frederic Pierrot) and their teenage daughter are about to move
to an apartment inherited from the husband’s grandparents.  Bilingual Actress  While researching her article, the writer learns that the
grandparents moved into the building just after the roundup,
supplanting a Jewish family forced from their home. The parents
and their 10-year-old daughter Sarah (Melusine Mayance) were
taken to the stadium, but the girl locked her younger brother in
a closet to hide him from the captors.  The film, based on the best-selling novel by Tatiana de
Rosnay, follows Julia as she digs into Sarah’s life (Aidan Quinn
has a small role as her grown son) and learns about her ultimate
fate.  Scott Thomas, who lives in Paris, flawlessly alternates
between French and English while adeptly balancing the present
and past. But Mayance’s mature, clear-eyed performance as the
young Sarah is the one to savor.  “Sarah’s Key,” from the Weinstein Co., opens tomorrow in
 New York  and Los Angeles. Rating: ***  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 