-- 
SEC’s Stanford Ponzi Ruling Provokes Clash With Investor Fund

-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-07-21T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/sec-s-stanford-ponzi-ruling-provokes-clash-with-investor-fund.html
When regulators froze R. Allen Stanford’s assets two years ago and accused him of running a $7
billion  Ponzi scheme , some 20,000 investors were left wondering
if they’d ever get their money back.  Now the Securities and Exchange Commission and a federally
chartered investor protection group are clashing over whether
Stanford’s clients should be as eligible for payments as the
victims of  Bernard Madoff . The dispute highlights how the rules
can get murky when politics collides with  securities law .  The group -- the  Securities Investor Protection Corp .,
known as SIPC -- has maintained that the law doesn’t provide for
payouts to investors in the circumstances of the Stanford case.
The SEC’s staff initially agreed. SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  and
two other commissioners rejected the analysis and ordered it
redone, according to five people with knowledge of the matter.  On June 15, the SEC told SIPC to start a process that could
give as much as $500,000 to each qualified Stanford investor.
The agency further surprised SIPC by threatening to sue if it
didn’t carry out the plan.  The SEC’s action “is highly unusual,” and a lawsuit would
be unprecedented, said Stephen Harbeck, SIPC’s president, who
has worked at the group for 36 years.  Harbeck has said publicly that he doesn’t think the
Stanford investors are eligible for repayments. SIPC is supposed
to aid investors when their securities are stolen or go missing
at a brokerage. Stanford’s customers still have possession of
their securities, he said, and fraud by itself isn’t covered.  ‘Difficult to Explain’  For people who have lost a lot of money, “it is very
difficult to explain the difference between theft and fraud,”
Harbeck said.  The question will remain unsettled until at least mid-
September, when the SIPC board is set to meet to decide whether
to follow the SEC’s opinion.  For the SEC, the decision came after more than two years of
political pressure on Schapiro. More than 50 lawmakers signed
letters asking her to explain why Stanford investors among their
constituents weren’t getting aid from SIPC, which is helping a
court-appointed receiver return billions of dollars to Madoff
victims.  Schapiro was grilled on the matter almost every time she
appeared in Congress. The House panel overseeing the agency’s
budget warned her to speed up the deliberations. Senator  David Vitter  of  Louisiana , who has some 1,800 Stanford investors in
his state, blocked the nominations of two SEC commissioners.  A day after Vitter’s move, the SEC announced its decision.
“This is big, big news,” said Vitter, a Republican, who
released his hold on the nominees that day. He called the SEC’s
action “a huge step and a sigh of relief for many.”  Ignoring Warnings  The dispute involves two entities suffering from their own
reputational challenges.  The SEC has been fighting to regain credibility after being
assailed by lawmakers and investors for bungling investigations
into Ponzi schemes. Inspector General H. David Kotz determined
the agency didn’t act on warnings about Madoff’s activities or
conduct a meaningful probe of  Stanford Financial Group  until
2005, even though examiners suspected Stanford of engaging in
fraud eight years earlier.  SIPC, a nonprofit industry-funded group with a widely
misunderstood mission, has been targeted by politicians and
victims who say it protects brokers by deliberately taking a
narrow view of the law so it can parsimoniously dole out its
funds.  “We just wanted to be treated the same way that the Madoff
victims are,” said Angela Shaw, who founded the  Stanford
Victims Coalition  after her family lost $4.6 million in the
alleged fraud. “To aspire to be like the Madoff victims, that’s
a bad place to be in.”  ‘Ongoing Fraud’  Harbeck said SIPC wouldn’t hesitate to use “every last
penny we have” for investors who are eligible for its
protections.  Authorities say investors were ensnared in Stanford’s
scheme over nearly two decades. A Texas native once ranked as
the world’s 605th richest person by Forbes Magazine, Stanford
saw his assets frozen in February 2009 when the SEC accused him
of running a “massive, ongoing fraud.” Later that year, he was
indicted on federal criminal charges.  Prosecutors said Stanford’s activities centered on enticing
investors to buy certificates of deposits via Stanford
International Bank, a private subsidiary located in Antigua.  Awaiting Trial  The interest on the CDs was substantially higher than those
that could be purchased in the U.S. and they were marketed as
conservative, liquid investments, authorities said. Instead, the
system turned out to be bogus, with much of the money going to
Stanford via undocumented “loans” that supported his
businesses and lifestyle, according to prosecutors.  Stanford is now in prison awaiting a trial scheduled for
next year; he has denied all wrongdoing.  Congress established SIPC in 1970. Brokerages are required
by law to be members and pay assessments. In return, they get
the right to put the group’s logo on their marketing materials.  While investors may regard the label as equivalent to the
guarantee that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. gives to bank
accounts, SIPC doesn’t run an insurance fund. Nor is it a
government agency, even though five of its seven board members
are appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate. The
two others are filled by the Treasury Department and the Federal
Reserve.  SIPC’s fund now holds about $1.3 billion, according to
Harbeck. The question of who gets access to that money -- and
SIPC’s help with a firm’s liquidation -- is determined by the
facts of each case.  Losses Uncovered  Under the 1970 Securities Investor Protection Act, if a
broker absconds with, say, 100 shares of stock, SIPC will
replace it for the client. SIPC also will cover missing cash, up
to $250,000 within a $500,000 cap per customer.  SIPC doesn’t cover investment losses, however, even when
they come from  securities fraud . That’s an issue at play in the
Stanford matter.  Harbeck informally advised a court-appointed receiver in
August 2009 that SIPC wouldn’t get involved because investors
received actual CDs after the brokerage passed their money to a
bank. What happened after that isn’t under SIPC’s purview
because the Stanford account holders “have their securities,”
Harbeck wrote to the receiver.  The SEC rejected that reasoning in its June 15 analysis,
arguing that there was no true separation between the bank and
the brokerage firm. Customers who made their investments with
the bank, the SEC said, were effectively depositing money with
the brokerage and thus should be eligible for SIPC coverage.  Split Decision  One of the five SEC commissioners, Republican  Kathleen Casey , voted against the decision, the people briefed on the
matter said. Casey declined to comment through an aide.  The SEC’s determination, some securities lawyers said,
could set a new precedent for expanding SIPC coverage for
investors who buy fraudulent securities that were issued by a
bank affiliated with the brokerage.  “That standard would apply to some very large brokerage
firms that are subsidiaries of even larger banks,” said  John Coffee , a law professor at  Columbia University  in  New York . The
liability, which would be borne by the brokerage industry,
“could be astronomic in some conceivable cases,” he said.  Others saw the decision as overdue.  Harvey Pitt , a former
SEC chairman who runs Kalorama Partners, a Washington-based
consulting firm, said he agreed with the SEC’s order because the
investor protection fund has long been too resistant to claims.  $7.6 Billion  “I never understood how SIPC could refuse to make good on
those who lost money because of Stanford’s misconduct,” Pitt
said in an interview.  SEC spokesman  Kevin Callahan  declined to comment on the
internal deliberations. “After extensive discussions, the SEC
determined this was the right decision and the right analysis,”
he said.  In the Madoff case, SIPC has worked with a court-appointed
trustee to recover $7.6 billion as of early May, about 44
percent of the $17.3 billion in lost principal that Madoff
customers have claimed.  Even there, the group’s decisions have been in dispute.
SIPC determined that account holders should be repaid based on
what they invested minus any funds they took out. A number of
Madoff clients are challenging that in court, arguing they
should be granted coverage based on their final account
statement, a figure that SIPC says includes fake profits.  Lobbying  The gap between SIPC’s treatment of the Madoff and Stanford
cases has spurred much of the lobbying and congressional
advocacy on behalf of Stanford’s investors.  Shaw, the founder of the victims’ coalition, says that in
the end, the decision to provide SIPC payouts was made on the
legal merits.  New evidence emerged early this year showing that the
investors’ money, though ostensibly used to buy the CDs, never
left Stanford’s U.S. firm, Shaw said. That would mean funds were
missing from the brokerage and thus eligible for the payout, she
said.  Shortly after the SEC’s decision, Shaw met for the first
time with SIPC’s general counsel and left the meeting feeling
“optimistic” that the fund will comply with the ruling, she
said.  “It’s been a hard two years,” said Shaw, who works part
time in the public affairs department of the  Federal Reserve 
Bank of  Dallas  and is the mother of a 7-year-old special needs
child.  The long days in  Washington  lobbying Congress and the SEC
have been worth it, she said. Shaw estimates that about 80
percent of Stanford brokerage account holders could be made
whole by the SIPC money because they invested less than
$500,000. While that would still leave thousands of people who
invested via other Stanford affiliates unprotected, some 7,800
clients may file claims, she said.  “I have a renewed sense of belief in the system,” said
Shaw. “You want to believe that the government is there for
you, and in the end it was.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 