-- 
SEC May Help Auction-Rate Investor Lawsuits

-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-08-01T15:26:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/sec-brief-in-auction-rate-case-may-help-investors-suing-banks-lawyer-says.html
(Corrects market-size data in sixth paragraph of story
published July 22.)  Auction-rate securities holders
seeking to win back part of the $330 billion they’ve invested,
may get help from a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
legal brief supporting claims that Merrill Lynch & Co. rigged
the moribund market, a lawyer involved in the case said.  Merrill Lynch, now part of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , failed to
adequately inform investors of its alleged role in “propping
up” auctions, the SEC said in the brief, filed in the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York.  “We think the SEC has come down on the side of
investors,” Jonathan Levine, a lawyer with Girard Gibbs in  San
Francisco , said in a telephone interview. His firm represents
investors in the appeal.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  moved to reinvigorate the
enforcement unit after President  Barack Obama  appointed her in
January 2009. Investigations surged by 32 percent and the agency
went to court seeking emergency orders four times as often as it
did a year earlier, Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said at
a congressional hearing in May 2009.  If the court agrees with the SEC’s argument, it may lead to
the reversal of other dismissed auction-rate cases alleging
brokers and dealers rigged the market, Levine said. “Now it
depends on whether the court accepts the view of the SEC.”  $152.9 Billion Outstanding  Lawsuits by the agency and state regulators led to the
return of at least $60 billion to individual investors. Other
holders of the securities had their lawsuits dismissed. About
$152.9 billion in municipal, student-loan, preferred and other
auction-rate securities remain outstanding, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Municipal debt comprises $56.1 billion of
the total, the data show.  After sanctioning Wall Street’s biggest dealers for
manipulating the markets by using inside knowledge of bids to
influence yields when they ran auctions in 2006, the agency let
the practice continue as long as it was disclosed to investors.
Auction-rate securities are long-term debt with yields that are
reset weekly or monthly through auctions.  In February 2008, dealers, which had routinely bid to
prevent auction failures, withdrew their capital and stopped
bidding, leading to a market collapse that left investors with
bonds they couldn’t sell and sticking some borrowers with high
penalty rates, sometimes as much as 20 percent.  $7 Billion Settlement  Merrill and the SEC reached a preliminary settlement in
April 2008 that called for the firm to buy back $7 billion of
the securities. The agency said at the time that the dealer had
misrepresented them as “safe, highly liquid investments
equivalent to money-market instruments and cash,” and that it
didn’t make adequate disclosures to investors.  The SEC’s friend-of-the-court brief filed last month may
affect the appeals panel, where the agency has “generally been
fairly persuasive and deferred to,” said  James Cox , a Duke
University law professor in Durham,  North Carolina . The agency’s
argument may be persuasive if it provides sufficient analysis of
the market and what should have been disclosed to investors so
they’d understand how dependent it was on dealer participation.  After the market collapsed, investors who said they didn’t
know about the risk of auction failures soon began to seek
redress in the courts. Claimants in some cases said the
securities had been sold as similar to money-market funds.  “This is uncharted territory before the most respected
federal appeals court on  securities law  issues,” said Jacob S. Frenkel, a lawyer with Shulman, Rogers, Gandal, Pordy & Ecker PA
in Potomac,  Maryland , who focuses on securities law and white-
collar crime. “Because the opinion potentially could impact SEC
cases, logic dictated that the court gave the SEC an opportunity
to weigh in.”  ‘No Game-Changer’  “The request for an amicus brief by no means indicates
that it will follow the SEC,” Frenkel said by e-mail. “No
game-changer here; rather, it’s just bringing a very interested
stakeholder to the table to express its views.”  Judgments have sometimes gone against investors, including
some whose claims against Merrill have been consolidated in the
case before the appeals court.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in March won the
dismissal of five consolidated lawsuits brought by investors who
claimed the New York-based bank manipulated prices.  The SEC brief examines the adequacy of disclosure at the
request of the court, said  Kevin Callahan , an agency spokesman,
in a prepared statement.  “We made clear our view that it is not sufficient to
disclose the risk that an event may happen when according to the
plaintiff’s allegations it is known for a certainty that the
event has happened or will happen,” Callahan said.  Changing Tack  Under Schapiro’s predecessor,  Christopher Cox , the agency
instituted policies that slowed enforcement cases and led
prosecuting lawyers to conclude their commissioners opposed
fining companies, the Government Accountability Office said in a
May 2009 report. The GAO is the investigative arm of Congress.  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association,
a New York-based trade group for securities dealers, called the
agency’s argument “a flawed and unwarranted expansion of
private civil liability,” in a  brief it filed  in the  New York 
case July 8. The group asked that the court reject the appeal,
according to the filing by William Sullivan, a lawyer at Paul,
Hastings, Janofsky & Walker LLP in  Los Angeles .  Broker-dealer participation in auctions “reflected a
common industry practice that was widely known to investors,”
Sullivan said in the brief. “A market manipulation claim cannot
survive if the allegedly manipulative conduct was commonly known
to market participants.”  Merrill Response  In its response to the SEC brief, Merrill told the court
July 8 that the agency was trying to turn the case into one of
misrepresentation, instead of market manipulation, by focusing
on the company’s duty to alert investors to negative market
conditions in late 2007 and early 2008.  “The primary thrust of the SEC letter is that Merrill’s
disclosure of its auction practices became insufficient in the
fall of 2007,” company lawyers said in its response. The
company said the SEC’s position conflicts with the agency’s
concession in a different case last month that “essentially
identical” disclosures by Morgan Keegan & Co. “adequately
described the risks” associated with the securities.  Bill Halldin , a Merrill spokesman, declined to comment.  Katrina Cavalli, a spokeswoman for the securities trade
group, said that its brief “speaks for itself.”  The case is Colin Wilson v. Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc., et
al., No. 10-1528,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit,
New York, New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in  Dallas  at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 