-- 
Senate Panel Unable to Advance Drilling-Safety Legislation

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-07-21T17:32:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/senate-panel-unable-to-advance-drilling-safety-legislation-1-.html
The Senate Energy Committee was
unable to advance oil drilling-safety legislation after
lawmakers disagreed on giving coastal states a greater share of
revenues from offshore energy production.  Too few committee members were present to vote on the
underlying safety bill or the revenue-sharing amendment after
Senator  Mary Landrieu , a Louisiana Democrat and bill sponsor,
left the room. Eight of 22 senators on the committee have to be
present to vote on amendments.  Lawmakers disagreed on providing coastal states with 37.5
percent of revenue from offshore energy production. Critics say
sharing revenue with states would raise the federal deficit.
Supporters such as Landrieu said coastal states should be paid
more for bearing additional risks from offshore oil production.  The change would “be great to the taxpayers generally over
time” because it will lead to more energy production and jobs,
Landrieu said before leaving the hearing.  Committee Chairman  Jeff Bingaman , a New Mexico Democrat,
said there was support for the safety bill, which would echo the
rules the Interior Department imposed after the BP Plc oil spill
last year. Those include having third-party inspections for
critical equipment on offshore rigs.  Senator  Lisa Murkowski  of  Alaska , a co-sponsor of the
revenue-share provision, sought to direct 12.5 percent of the
revenues from offshore production to a clean-energy fund. It
failed on a 10-12 vote amid questions about whether the money
would have had to be spent on clean-energy projects.  “I don’t how we will proceed,” Bingaman said.  The bill is S. 917.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Judy Pasternak at 
 jpasternak1@bloomberg.net  