-- 
Portman Says Republicans Will Vote on Worker-Aid

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-07-21T17:49:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/senate-s-portman-says-republicans-will-ensure-worker-aid-vote.html
U.S. Senator  Rob Portman  said
Republicans will guarantee a vote on aid for workers displaced
by foreign competition, offering a path to renew the program
should the Obama administration separate it from trade accords.  Portman, an Ohio Republican, said he, Senator Roy Blunt of
 Missouri  and 10 other Republicans would vote to end debate on
Trade Adjustment Assistance if presented as a standalone bill.
The administration plans to send Congress the aid program as
part of free-trade agreements, which are covered by fast-track
authority. The support, with backing from Democrats, would help
get the 60 votes needed to break a potential filibuster and
allow a vote to renew the aid program, Portman said.  “We need 7 Republican votes to find 60,” Portman said
last night at the  Washington  International Trade Association’s
dinner in Washington, referring to the 51 Democrats and 2
independents who often vote with the party. “We were asked to
find 7, we’ve found 12.”  Approval of trade deals with  South Korea , Colombia and
Panama, reached under President  George W. Bush , stalled last
month after Republicans opposed considering worker aid and trade
deals in the same legislation. White House Chief of Staff
 William Daley  said last week the administration was preparing to
send a trade bill with worker aid attached because Republicans
“have yet to present a credible alternative to getting this
legislation passed in a timely fashion.”  Fast-Track Authority  Trade accords are considered under rules intended to ban
amendments, limit debate and ensure an up-or-down vote. The
worker-aid program wouldn’t qualify for Senate fast-track
consideration if separated from the trade deals.  A cloture vote on the aid program may lead to Senate
passage, Doug Goudie, director for international trade policy at
the  National Association of Manufacturers  in Washington, said
today in an interview.  “It has solid support on the Democratic side and I believe
some Republicans that would support it as well,” Goudie said.  President  Barack Obama  plans to delay sending the accords
to Congress until lawmakers return from an August recess as the
dispute with Republicans remains unresolved, people familiar
with the decision said yesterday.  The administration is in “active discussions” with
congressional leaders to advance worker aid and trade deals as
soon as possible, said  Carol Guthrie , a spokeswoman for the U.S.
Trade Representative’s office.  “The announcement by a number of Senate Republicans
supporting passage of Trade Adjustment Assistance is a welcome
development,” she said. “What’s needed now is a commitment
from leadership in both chambers on the specifics of how they
will move the three trade agreements and TAA.”  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, has said
that worker aid should be separated from the free-trade
agreements. Boehner said this month he hasn’t ruled out holding
separate votes on the aid and trade pacts, then combining them
before sending a bill to the Senate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  