-- 
Shrinking Cattle Herd Signals Beef Rising to Record, Higher Wendy’s Costs

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-07-21T23:09:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/shrinking-cattle-herd-signals-beef-rising-to-record-higher-wendy-s-costs.html
The U.S. cattle herd as of July 1
probably shrunk to the smallest on record, signaling tightening
beef supplies and higher costs for shoppers and companies from
 Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  to Wendy’s Co.  Ranchers held 99.39 million head of cattle as of July 1,
down 1.4 percent from a year earlier, according to the average
estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. That would
be the smallest July herd since at least 1973, when the U.S.
Department of Agriculture data begins. The government plans to
release its  semiannual report  on the herd at 3 p.m. today in
 Washington .  “If you’ve got fewer cattle, ultimately you’re going to
have less beef,”  Ron Plain , a livestock economist at the
University of  Missouri  in Columbia, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “We’re going to have new record cattle and
beef prices in 2012.”  Cattle futures, which climbed to a record $1.21625 a pound
on April 4, may climb to $1.23 as early as October and $1.25 as
soon as March, said Plain, who has studied the industry for
three decades. The size of the current herd is probably the
lowest since the 1950s, he said.  On April 5, wholesale choice beef reached $1.9196 a pound,
the highest since at least 2004, government data show.  Retail 
prices rose to $4.443 a pound in June, close to the record high
in April. Beef costs will jump as much as 8 percent this year,
more than any major  food group , the USDA has said.  Cattle futures for October delivery rose 0.1 cent to $1.154
yesterday on the  Chicago  Mercantile Exchange. The price has
climbed 22 percent in the past year.  Southern Drought  Conditions for cattle have deteriorated amid the most-
severe drought in  Texas  in a least a century and adverse weather
in the South.  More than 62 percent of the land area in a six-state region
is experiencing  “extreme”  drought, according to the U.S.
Drought Monitor. Pasture and range conditions were rated
“poor” or “very poor” in 86 percent of Texas, the biggest
cattle-producing state, in the week ended July 12.  The drought is a “game-changer” for inventories, Jim Robb, the director of the Livestock Marketing Information
Center, a Denver-based research organization funded by
universities, the industry and government, said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  “We are slaughtering animals that are potential
productive-breeding animals,” Robb said. “They are going into
feedlots and beef-production systems. We’re not holding heifers
for future breeding herd growth.”  ‘Under Pressure’  Meatpackers, retailers and restaurants will face higher
costs, Robb said. “Margins in cattle feeding and the beef
packing will be under pressure due to the tight cattle supplies.
Margin pressure on everyone but the primary producers, which is
the cow-calf operation, is going to increase over the next few
years.”  Wendy’s, a U.S. fast-food chain, said last month that its
beef costs are projected to rise 20 percent this year. CKE
Restaurants Inc., the owner of the Hardee’s chain, cited higher
meat expenses in its review of quarterly earnings.  Cattle ranchers in the U.S. will make about $100 a head
this year, up from an estimated $50 per cow last year, following
losses of about $30 in 2009, Plain of the  University of Missouri 
said. Producers still aren’t expanding because of the sluggish
economy and short-term cash-flow concerns, he said.  Livestock-Feed Costs  Calves have nine-month gestation periods and take 20 months
to reach slaughter weight, Plain said. Ranchers would rather cut
back on herds and sell animals to generate cash, while reducing
feed costs, he said.  The price of corn, the main ingredient in livestock feed,
has climbed 71 percent in the past year. On June 10, futures
reached a record $7.9975 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade.  Rising beef exports and declining imports are helping to
tighten domestic supplies, Robb of the livestock center said.
U.S. per-capita beef supplies may drop to 58.4 pounds (26.5
kilograms) this year, the smallest since at least 1955, and to
56.4 pounds next year, he said.  U.S. exports have climbed 27 percent in the five months
ended May 31 from a year earlier, government data show. U.S.
beef  production  may be 26.2 billion pounds (11.9 million metric
tons) this year, down 0.7 percent from 2010, the USDA has said.
Output in 2012 may drop to 25.1 billion pounds.  Tyson, the biggest U.S. meat company, declined to comment
on the outlook for tighter cattle inventories.  Tyson Outlook  “The recent rise in deferred cattle prices would imply
that Tyson’s costs will rise, so the company will have to garner
higher beef-selling prices to offset the elevated input costs,”
 Farha Aslam , a New York-based analyst at Stephens Inc., said in
a telephone interview.  She rates the shares “overweight.”  “There is no doubt that the packers will have to pay the
high cash prices and have to pass it along in the form of high
wholesale beef,”  Dennis Smith , a senior account executive at
Archer Financial Services Inc. in Chicago, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s just going to be a fact of life for Americans:
record-high meat prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net . 