-- 
Shuttle Landing Marks NASA Shift to Commercial Space Efforts

-- B y   J e r r y   H a r t
-- 
2011-07-21T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/shuttle-landing-marks-nasa-shift-to-commercial-space-efforts.html
The space shuttle  Atlantis ’s
scheduled  landing  in  Florida  today ends the last of 135 missions
over 30 years that delivered the Hubble telescope into orbit and
helped build the International Space Station.  The four astronauts, led by Commander Chris Ferguson, are
to touch down at the  Kennedy Space Center  in  Cape Canaveral ,
Florida, at 5:56 a.m. New York time, after a 13-day mission.  With the shuttle’s return, the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration will leave the business of low-Earth
orbital flight and use U.S. companies to develop spacecraft for
taking people and cargo on short trips. It has partnerships with
 Boeing Co. (BA) ,  Space Exploration Technologies Corp.  and others to
build such vehicles while it focuses on missions beyond the
moon.  NASA “will take on the difficult and more risky challenges
of deep-space exploration,” its administrator, Charles Bolden,
said at a Federal Aviation Administration meeting on commercial
space transportation May 11 in  Washington .  The shuttle program began with the launch of Columbia in
April 1981. Two orbiters were lost: Challenger exploded after
liftoff in January 1986 and Columbia disintegrated on re-
entering Earth’s atmosphere in February 2003.  Atlantis carried supplies and spare parts to the  space
station  in its 12th visit to the orbiting outpost, which
currently houses six crew members. U.S. shuttles made 46 trips
to the station, built by the space agencies of the U.S., Russia,
 Europe , Japan and Canada.  The first flight of Atlantis, in October 1985, was a
classified mission for the Defense Department. The spacecraft
pioneered flights to the Russian space station Mir. In 1989,
Atlantis was the first shuttle to launch a planetary probe,
sending the Magellan spacecraft to Venus.  Atlantis will remain at the  Kennedy Space Center  and go on
display at the visitors’ center. Discovery will go to a
Smithsonian Institution facility in Virginia and Endeavour heads
for the California Science Center in Los Angeles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jerry Hart in Miami at 
 jhart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  