-- 
Singapore Central Bank Raises Inflation Forecast, Vigilant on Growth Risks

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-07-21T10:21:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/singapore-raises-inflation-forecast.html
The  Monetary Authority of Singapore 
raised its inflation estimate and pledged to remain vigilant
against risks to growth, saying the economy may expand in the
lower half of its forecast range.  Consumer prices may climb 4 percent to 5 percent in 2011,
higher than a previous estimate of 3 percent to 4 percent,
Managing Director Ravi Menon told reporters in the city state
today. He reiterated a prediction for the economy to expand 5
percent to 7 percent this year and said the policy stance of
allowing the Singapore dollar to appreciate “remains
appropriate.” The currency reached a record today.  Singapore’s economy shrank last quarter as manufacturing
slumped, adding to signs of slower growth in  Asia  after the
region led the global recovery from the 2009 recession.  Europe ’s
debt woes and rising U.S. joblessness threaten demand for
exports from Asia and have wiped about $2 trillion off stocks
worldwide since the beginning of May.  “The ongoing sovereign debt crisis in the euro zone
periphery poses significant risks -- both to global economic
growth and financial stability,” the central bank said in its
annual report released today. “Asia is facing rising inflation,
caused primarily by higher oil, food and other commodity prices
but also tighter labor markets. MAS will remain vigilant against
this range of potential vulnerabilities.”  The Singapore dollar has reached unprecedented levels since
the central bank said in April it would allow further
appreciation to tame price gains, the third monetary tightening
in a year. It rose for a fourth day today against its U.S.
counterpart, reaching a record S$1.2114.  Rising Currency  “A stronger  Singapore dollar  has helped, not just by
filtering oil and food price increases, but also by providing a
restraining effect on the economy,” Menon said today.  The monetary authority uses the  exchange rate  as its main
tool to manage inflation, guiding the local dollar against a
basket of currencies within an undisclosed band. Effects of the
previous monetary tightening “will continue to filter through
the economy over the rest of this year,” it said in the report.  The central bank said costlier accommodation as a result of
rising rentals and higher private transportation costs led to a
revision in the inflation forecast.  “The central bank has taken great pains to explain” the
source of the price increase, said Kit Wei Zheng, a Singapore-
based economist at Citigroup Inc. “It suggests that they are
not in a hurry to overreact to factors that are not within their
control.”  Singapore ’s consumer prices rose 4.5 percent in May
compared with a 5.5 percent gain in January. Inflation probably
accelerated last month, with prices rising 5.1 percent from a
year earlier, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey ahead of a July 25 report.  Labor Market  “The tight labor market will continue to exert upward
pressure on costs and prices, while global oil and food prices
are likely to remain firm given supply shocks and strong demand
as the global economy slowly recovers,” the central bank said.  The city state, home to the world’s second-busiest
container port, has remained vulnerable to fluctuations in
overseas demand for manufactured goods even as the government
boosts financial services and tourism to reduce its reliance on
exports. The island located at the southern end of the 600-mile
(965-kilometer) Malacca Strait is among the first countries in
the region to report second-quarter data.  Singapore’s GDP fell an annualized 7.8 percent in the
second quarter from the previous three months, when it climbed
27.2 percent, the trade ministry said July 14.  China ’s
manufacturing may contract for the first time in a year in July,
preliminary data for a purchasing managers’ index showed today.  If the pickup from the slowdown last quarter is weaker than
currently expected, Singapore’s growth could come in at the
lower half of the 2011 forecast, Menon said.  The central bank posted a record loss of S$10.9 billion ($9
billion) in the year through March as the strength of its
currency depleted the value of investments, according to its
annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  