-- 
Singapore Central Bank Posts Record Loss

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-07-21T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/singapore-central-bank-posts-record-loss.html
The Monetary Authority of Singapore
posted a record loss of S$10.9 billion ($9 billion) in the year
through March as the strength of its currency depleted the value
of investments.  The loss is the second in the central bank’s 40-year
history, Managing Director Ravi Menon said at a press conference
today, even after an investment gain of S$12.3 billion for the
period. The Monetary Authority, also known as the MAS, reported
a net loss of S$9.2 billion in the year through March 2009.  “We made good investment gains but when measured in the
 Singapore dollar , these gains were more than offset by the
strength of the currency,” Menon said as the central bank 
released its annual report today. “The international purchasing 
power is unaffected by the strength of the Singapore dollar.”  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index advanced 11 percent in the year
through March, helping lift the value of the central bank’s
equity investments in U.S. dollar terms. The holdings were
eroded by an 11 percent increase in the Singapore dollar during
the period against the U.S. currency, the most among the 10-most
actively traded currencies in  Asia  excluding  Japan , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Singapore dollar reached a record S$1.2120 against its
U.S. counterpart today. The central bank, which uses the
 exchange rate  instead of  interest rates  to control monetary
policy, said in April it would allow further appreciation to
tame price gains, the third monetary policy tightening in a year.  “MAS foreign reserves serve two primary purposes in times
of crises: they finance our imports from the rest of the world
and safeguard the value of our currency,” Menon said. “On both
fronts, it is the foreign currency value of the reserves that
matters.”  The Singapore dollar is allowed to trade within an
undisclosed band against a basket of currencies of the city’s
major trading partners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  