-- 
South African Ministers Appeal Wal-Mart Takeover Decision

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-07-21T16:45:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/south-african-ministers-ask-appeal-court-to-review-ruling-on-wal-mart-buy.html
Three South African government
ministers appealed a decision to let  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  buy a
controlling stake in  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM)   Economic Development Minister  Ebrahim Patel , Trade and
Industry Minister  Rob Davies  and Forestry and Fisheries Minister
Tina Joemat-Pettersson filed the application, according to
documents posted on the  website  of the Pretoria-based
Competition Appeal Court today.  The ministers said the merger should be reconsidered
because there were technical irregularities in documents used by
the Competition Tribunal during its hearings.  The Competition Tribunal ruled on May 31 that the world’s
biggest retailer could proceed with the 16.5 billion-rand ($2.4
billion) takeover on condition no jobs are cut for two years.
The government objected, saying conditions imposed on the
companies were inadequate to guard against a “destabilizing”
impact on the economy as a surge in imports may undermine
manufacturing output.  “The merger hearing was unfair and not in accordance with
the principles of natural justice as required,” the ministers
said.  ‘Rigorous, inclusive’  The court aims to hear the matter in October and hasn’t set
a date yet, court registrar Tebogo Mputle said by phone from
 Pretoria  today.  “Massmart and Wal-Mart have full confidence in the merger
approval process, which is rigorous, inclusive and
transparent,” Massmart said in an e-mailed response to
questions today. “The matter is now in the hands of our legal
team.”  Massmart shares closed unchanged at 144.60 rand in
Johannesburg, giving the company a market value of 30.9 billion
rand.  The government’s appeal to the court follows a similar
application by the South African Commercial, Catering and Allied
Workers Union, which said conditions imposed by the tribunal
were inadequate to protect jobs and safeguard worker rights. The
court will have to decide whether to merge the two lawsuits.  Parliament’s economic development committee concluded three
days of public hearings on the takeover today, in which the
government and unions restated their opposition to the deal.  ‘Public Interest’  “Government is seeking to protect the public interest by
ensuring that the merger does not undermine employment,
industrial development, small business and firms controlled by
historically disadvantaged individuals,”  Richard Levin , the
economic development department’s director-general, told
lawmakers. “We believe that evidence in the possession of the
merging parties would confirm the extent of the negative impact
of the merger,” which wasn’t made available during the tribunal
hearings.  Brian Leroni, a spokesman for Johannesburg-based Massmart,
didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone.  Yesterday, Massmart Chief Executive Officer Grant Pattison
told lawmakers the company plans to create 15,000 jobs in  South
Africa  and spend an extra 60 billion rand on additional
purchases of food and fast-moving  consumer goods  within the next
five years. Massmart currently controls less than 20 percent of
the market for all its product lines, he said.  The government’s court application was reported earlier by
Business Day newspaper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in London at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  