-- 
South African Central Bank Keeps Interest Rate at 5.5% as Recovery Falters

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-07-21T15:26:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/south-african-central-bank-keeps-interest-rate-at-5-5-as-recovery-falters.html
South Africa ’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged at a 30-year low for a fourth
consecutive meeting as the recovery in  Africa ’s biggest economy
falters.  The repurchase rate was kept at 5.5 percent in a unanimous
decision, Governor Gill Marcus said today in a televised speech
from the capital,  Pretoria . All 24 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg predicted the decision.  Retail sales were unchanged in May from the year-earlier
period, while manufacturing rose 0.6 percent, undermining the
economy’s recovery and the outlook for  job creation . That is
overriding the central bank’s concern that rising food and fuel
costs will push inflation outside of the 3 percent to 6 percent
target by the fourth quarter.  “It’s a dovish statement highlighting more of the risks to
the growth outlook,” Johann Els, a senior economist at Old
Mutual Investment Group, South Africa’s largest private money
manager, said in a phone interview from  Cape Town . “They will
be very careful not to raise interest rates too soon.”  The rand strengthened to 6.7963 against the dollar as of
4:46 p.m. in Johannesburg from 6.8116 before Marcus began
speaking. The yield on the R157 government bond, due 2015, was
unchanged at 7.36 percent.  ‘Hesitant Manner’  “The domestic economic recovery has continued, but in a
hesitant manner,” Marcus said. “The strong performance of the
economy in the first quarter of the year is unlikely to have
been repeated in the second quarter.”  Rising food and fuel costs will probably push inflation
“marginally” outside the target band in the fourth quarter,
Marcus said. Inflation is expected to average 6.3 percent in the
first three months of 2012 and remain at the upper end of the
target range for the following two quarters, she said. The
inflation rate reached a 15-month high of 5 percent in June, the
statistics office said yesterday.  The European debt crisis, which has roiled markets in Italy
and  Spain  since last month, may also require the central bank to
avoid rate increases that would further depress demand.  “The global economic outlook has deteriorated,” Marcus
said. “Events in the  euro zone  appear to have entered a new
phase, with the focus moving from the peripheral countries to
some of the larger economies in the region. The global systemic
risks posed by any failure to overcome the sovereign debt crisis
are enormous.”  Wage Demands  Price pressures are also rising from wage demands, which
have intensified this year. An 11-day strike at  oil companies 
such as Royal Dutch Shell Plc has resulted in fuel shortages,
while workers at Anglo American Plc, Xstrata Plc and other coal
producers have threatened to strike if employers don’t meet
their demands for a 14 percent pay increase.  Marcus said that “unexpectedly high inflation outcomes”
would negatively affect the bank’s expectations. The bank will
“remain vigilant and continue to monitor closely any
indications of second-round effects on inflation,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 