-- 
Spanish Banks’ Quest for Capital Piles Risk on Their Customers

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-07-21T22:10:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/spanish-banks-quest-for-capital-piles-risk-on-their-customers.html
Maria Pilar Izquierdo put 5,000
euros ($7,186) into bonds that will convert into shares of  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  next year, leaving her facing potential losses on
an investment that helped  Spain ’s biggest bank bolster its
capital.  “Let’s just say that relations with my bank branch have
become very strained,” said Izquierdo, 38, a local government
worker from Zaragoza province who invested money she’d set aside
for her son’s First Communion ceremony in bonds that Santander
sold to  129,000 retail clients  in 2007. The 7 billion euros of
bonds are set to convert into shares in October 2012 at 14.13
euros a share, above the current price of 7.94 euros.  Santander and CaixaBank SA were among Spanish banks that
used funds raised with sales of  such bonds  through their branch
networks to boost their capital. Bankia SA and Banca Civica SA,
lenders formed from groups of Spanish savings banks, raised a
combined 2.1 billion euros by selling shares in their initial
public offerings to consumer-banking clients this week.  “Over-reliance on its own depositors to sell loss
absorbing products brings a conflict of interest for the lender
because it has the obligation of providing fair advice to its
clients and a big interest in placing the securities,” said
Juan Fernandez-Armesto, a former chairman of Spain’s financial
markets regulator, known as CNMV. “If those securities produce
losses for its clients after a period of time, the lender faces
rupturing its commercial relations with the clients and a
considerable legal risk because of the conflict of interest,” he
said, without referring to any particular deal.  Bank of Spain  The results of  stress tests  published on July 15 showed
that Spanish banks, including Santander and Madrid-based  Banco
Popular Espanol SA (POP) , had a combined 12 billion euros of mandatory
convertible bonds outstanding.  The Bank of Spain considers the reserves generated through
the sales as equivalent to the highest quality capital, and
cited them as a reason why Spanish lenders wouldn’t need to
raise more funds, even after five of the country’s banks failed
the stress tests with a capital shortfall of 1.56 billion euros.
The failures were Banco Pastor SA, Caja de Ahorros del
Mediterraneo, Banco Grupo Caja3, CatalunyaCaixa and Unnim.  The Santander securities paid annual interest of 7.3
percent until October 2008, before switching to a rate of 2.75
percentage points above Euribor, a yield that’s currently about
4.3 percent. The bank set out the risks for investors in the
bonds’ prospectus, including the final conversion date and the
possibility of share price declines.  ‘Paper Losses’  At the conversion price, 5,000 euros would buy about 354
shares, which are worth about 2,808 euros at the current market
price.  A spokesman for Santander, who asked not to be identified
in line with company policy, declined to comment, as did
spokesmen for CaixaBank and Popular.  “There are thousands of Santander branch customers that
were sold these investments that probably don’t know yet that
they’re sitting on huge paper losses,” said Fernando Zunzunegui, a Madrid-based lawyer who is helping set up a group
to press Santander to compensate clients for potential losses.
“These are very dangerous products to sell through your retail
network.”  Not all convertible bonds sold by Spanish banks have been
aimed at retail customers. Bankinter SA  sold  405 million euros
of convertible bonds in April to existing shareholders or
holders of preference shares.  Bankia, Civica  CaixaBank sold 1.5 billion euros of mandatory convertible
bonds through its  branch network  in June to help boost its core
capital ratio to more than 8 percent under Basel III rules by
the end of 2012. The conversion price for the bonds, which have
18-month and 30-month maturities, will be 5.253 euros, compared
with CaixaBank’s current share price of 4.217 euros.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-biggest
bank, raised 2 billion euros from the sale of mandatory
convertible bonds with a five-year maturity marketed to branch
customers in 2009. Bilbao-based BBVA, which had the right to
convert the bonds into shares on quarterly coupon dates after
the first year, announced on June 22 that it would do so. A
spokeswoman for BBVA declined to comment.  Banks seeking to raise funds from share sales to meet
 capital requirements  set by the government are also relying on
their consumer-banking clients.  Madrid-based Bankia, led by former International Monetary
Fund Director Rodrigo Rato, raised 3 billion euros with an
initial share sale this week. It sold half of the stock to its
own customers and through branches of other banks after cutting
the price by as much as 26 percent. Banca Civica, also based in
 Madrid , raised about 600 million euros in its IPO, allocating 58
percent of the shares to individual investors.  Investor Appetite  A spokeswoman for Bankia declined to comment in a phone
interview. The fact that 60,000 retail investors bought shares
was a sign of their confidence in the bank, Enrique Goni,
Civica’s co-chairman, said at a Madrid news conference.  Bankia declined 3 cents, or 0.8 percent, to 3.72 euros
since it began trading in Madrid on July 20. Civica was
unchanged at 2.70 euros in its trading debut yesterday.  Banks may be straining the willingness of their customers
to sign up for the largest deals after an index of Spanish
financial shares declined 16 percent in the past year and
unemployment rose above 21 percent. CaixaBank received orders
worth 1.74 billion euros for its 1.5 billion euros of
convertible bonds and Bankia said demand for the retail
investors’ portion of the IPO was 1.04 times the amount offered.  ‘Disgruntled Clients’  Banks such as Santander sell bonds convertible into stock
to “dodge the bullet” of immediately diluting existing
investors, said  Simon Maughan , head of sales and distribution at
MF Global Ltd. in  London . Asking clients to buy stock-linked
investments risks alienating them if they’re burdened with
losses, he said.  “The last thing you want is 130,000 disgruntled clients,”
Maughan said, referring to the mandatory convertible bonds sold
by Santander. “If worse comes to worst they may have to
compensate the customers and obviously that’s going to be
unpleasant.”  One of those customers is Izquierdo, who bought the bonds
after paying a visit to a Santander branch in Carineno, a town
of about 3,500 in Zaragoza’s wine-making country. “It has
become difficult for me to remain a Santander client,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net 
Esteban Duarte at   eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  