-- 
China-Based Spies Said to Be Behind Hacking of IMF Computers

-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-07-22T17:51:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/spies-connected-to-china-said-to-have-carried-out-hacking-of-imf-computers.html
Investigators probing the recent
ransacking of International Monetary Fund computers have
concluded the attack was carried out by cyber spies connected to
 China , according to two people close to the investigation.  Computer specialists have spent several weeks piecing
together information about the attack, which the IMF disclosed
on June 8. Internal IMF e-mails obtained by Bloomberg News
suggest fund officials completed an inventory of stolen
documents by the middle of July, and drafted an “operational
impact assessment.” The results have not been made public.  Evidence pointing to China includes an analysis of the
attack methods, as well as the electronic trail left by hackers
as they removed large quantities of documents from the IMF’s
computers. The multistaged attack, which used U.S.-based servers
as part of their equipment, ended on May 31, people involved in
the investigation said on the condition they not be identified
because they aren’t authorized to speak about it.  Their conclusion is likely to be a major test for the new
IMF chief,  Christine Lagarde , who this month appointed Chinese
economist Zhu Min as deputy managing director, giving China a
much expanded role in the institution.  “There are some very big questions about the role that
China wants to play in the global economic system and what role
it can play given some of its behavior,” said  C. Fred Bergsten ,
who heads the Washington-based Peterson Institute for
International Economics.  The timing of the attack and China’s lobbying for more
influence at the Fund appear to overlap, creating a potentially
embarrassing situation for China among the IMF’s 186 other
members, including the U.S.  Scope of Attack  IMF officials have said little publicly about the scope of
the attack or its origins, citing the on-going nature of the
investigation, which involves outside forensics experts and the
fund’s own information-technology team.  “We are not prepared to finger point at this time,” the IMF
said today in a statement. “We also may never know who
perpetrated this cyber attack. However, our effort to assess the
impact and extent of the attack is continuing.”  Wang Baodong , a spokesman for the Chinese embassy in
Washington, said in an e-mail that hacking is “an international
issue” affecting dozens of countries and “willfully relating
such cases with China is irresponsible.”  People familiar with the incident said that the hackers
were able to download a large quantity of documents from dozens
of computers on the IMF’s network, which was first infected when
an employee downloaded a file containing a piece of
sophisticated spying software that quickly spread.  IMF Internal E-Mails  In an internal e-mail sent to staff, Patrick Hinderdael,
the IMF’s adviser to the chief information officer, said the
attack occurred in at least two phases, and that no activity by
the hackers has been detected since the end of May. In the first
phase, the attackers grabbed “a general sweep” of recent files
then returned for a second wave of downloads, Hinderdael said.  Hackers have learned to use sophisticated methods to hide
their identities, including hijacking servers in other countries
to launch an attack. Forensics specialists have similarly
advanced techniques to cut through the fog. Those include
analyzing the code left behind in networks and tracing patterns
in multiple attacks that may use the same infrastructure.  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the head of the IMF, was arrested
in New York City on sexual assault charges on May 14 and
resigned four days later, setting off an international search
for a new director including demands by emerging economies that
one of their own lead the fund. Lagarde, the former French
finance minister, was appointed to fill the position beginning
July 5.  Lagarde’s Cyber Experience  Lagarde has had experience with similar cyber attacks. In
March, the French  finance ministry  said its computer network had
been hacked and that documents related the French presidency of
the G-20 were stolen. The magazine Paris Match quoted a French
official saying the information was redirected to servers in
China.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  has said its computers were attacked by
Chinese-based hackers in late 2009, along with the networks of
at least 20 other companies. According to diplomatic cables
posted by the website WikiLeaks, U.S. defense and intelligence
officials have documented the operations of sophisticated cyber
spies operating from China over several years.  “As an intelligence professional, I stand back in absolute
awe and wonderment at the Chinese espionage effort against the
 United States of America ,” Gen. Michael Hayden, the former CIA
director, said at cyber security conference last year. “It is
magnificent in its breath, its depth and its efficiency.”  China’s Clout  China, which is driving global economic growth, has been
gaining clout in international organizations. In 2008 Justin Lin, a Taiwan-born scholar who defected to China, became the
first World Bank chief economist from outside  Europe  and Lagarde
created a new position for Zhu at the IMF, giving China access
to a top management post for the first time.  A few months earlier, China obtained the third-largest
voting share at the fund after the 187 member countries agreed
to better reflect the growing weight of emerging markets in the
world’s economy.  China needs to decide whether it will be a cooperative
global power or pursue national interests that can be
disruptive, Bergsten said.  “The cyber security issue is a very big part of that but
it’s only part of a broader mosaic,” he said.  Global Cornerstone  The IMF is a cornerstone institution in the global economic
system, managing financial crises around the world. Its
computers are likely to contain confidential documents on the
fiscal health of many countries.  “The IMF holds some of most valuable data anywhere,” said
Josh Shaul, chief technology officer with Application Security,
Inc., a cyber security firm based in  New York City , NY.  The financial status of countries is critical information
for major nation-state investors or holders of sovereign debt,
he said.  Hinderdael said in an e-mail to IMF staff that the attack
was not related to  identity theft  or commercial fraud, another
indication the intruders weren’t ordinary cyber thieves.  ‘Experts’ Assessment’  “According to our experts’ assessment, the information
contained in our e-mail, document management, human resource,
and financial systems has not been compromised,” Hinderdael
said in the e-mail.  In a separate e-mail obtained by Bloomberg News, Jonathan
Palmer, chief information officer at the IMF, said the fund was
instituting new security measures for employees’ SecurID tokens,
a product sold by EMC Corp.’s security division, RSA, and used
by government agencies and banks to guard against hacking.  RSA said in March that hackers had compromised its
networks, and the stolen information was later used to access
the secure computer network of defense contractor Lockheed
Martin Corp. There is no evidence linking the RSA breach to the
incident at the IMF, a person familiar with the investigation
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in  Washington  at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  