-- 
Stora Drops After Net Misses Estimates; Predicts Little Growth

-- B y   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-07-21T13:08:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/stora-drops-after-net-misses-estimates-predicts-little-growth.html
Stora Enso Oyj (STERV)  fell the most in 18
months in Helsinki trading after  Europe ’s biggest papermaker
said third-quarter operating profit won’t grow from the period
just ended and reported profit short of analysts’ estimates.  Operating profit excluding non-recurring items in the third
quarter will be about the “same range” as the 228 million
euros ($326 million) reported in the second quarter, Stora said
in a statement today. Second-quarter net income fell 15 percent
to 136 million euros, missing an analyst estimate of 145 million
euros in a Bloomberg survey.  Stora, based in Helsinki, and other paper and pulp makers
are suffering from an oversupply of paper in Europe that’s been
putting pressure on prices. Third-quarter demand is forecast to
be stable for consumer board, industrial packaging, newsprint
and coated magazine paper, Stora said in a statement, and weaker
for uncoated magazine paper and fine paper.  “Some of our geographical markets, specifically coated
fine paper in Europe, have in recent weeks shown signs of
slowing down compared with the recovery in 2010,” Chief
Executive Officer Jouko Karvinen said in a separate statement.  Stora shares fell as much as 7.1 percent to 6 euros, the
most since March of 2009 and was trading down 6.3 percent as of
3 p.m. local time. The stock has lost 22 percent this year,
giving the company a market value of 4.9 billion euros.  Shares of other European papermakers also declined. UPM-
Kymmene Oyj, Europe’s No. 2, fell as much as 6 percent, while
 Norske Skogindustrier ASA (NSG)  in Norway fell as much as 4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim McLaughlin in Stockholm at 
 Kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  