-- 
Swedish Haven Status at Risk as Budget Fight Thwarts Government

-- B y   J o n a s   B e r g m a n   a n d   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-07-21T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/swedish-haven-status-at-risk-in-budget-fight.html
Sweden  risks damaging its status as
a haven for international investors as opposition parties put up
their biggest fight yet to block a key part of the minority
government’s budget.  Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt has staked the remaining
three years of his term on further tax reductions after lowering
income levies representing about 2 percent of annual economic
output since 2006 and trimming payroll and corporate fees. The
opposition, led by Social Democrat Hakan Juholt, has signaled it
will reject the plan, which may provoke a new election and cut
short a sitting government’s term for the first time since 1953.  “The situation is precarious,” said Jenny Madestam, a
political scientist at  Stockholm University . The government has
“been caught by surprise,” she said.  Sweden was one of two European Union countries to have a
balanced budget or post a surplus last year -- the other is
Estonia -- after delivering the bloc’s biggest economic rebound.
That’s allowed the government to pursue tax cuts when much of
the rest of Europe is trying to persuade voters to accept
austerity packages. Juholt, who took over as party head in
March, has derided lower taxes as “passive” and is lobbying
instead for more spending on infrastructure and welfare.  Voters seem to agree. A poll of 9,123 people released by
the Swedish statistics office in June showed the Social
Democrats and its allies, the Left party and the Greens, would
get 47.4 percent of the vote versus 45.4 percent for the
government. The anti-immigrant Sweden Democrats, which both
sides have refused to work with, would get 5.7 percent.  ‘Knee-Jerk Reaction’  A government switch could initially cause a “knee-jerk
reaction to sell the krona,” said Martin Enlund, a strategist
in  Stockholm  at Handelsbanken Capital Markets. “Juholt is an
unknown quantity.”  The krona has advanced 22 percent against the dollar and 20
percent against the euro in the past two years. Sweden’s 10-year
government bonds yield 2.87 percent, 1 basis point less than
benchmark German bunds of similar maturity. Foreign investors
increased their share of the total market value of the Stockholm
stock exchange to 37.8 percent at the end of last year, compared
with 37.1 percent at the end of June of 2010, Statistics Sweden
data shows.  Confidence in Swedish banks means it’s cheaper to insure
debt than for European and U.S. financial companies. The cost of
protecting  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  debt is the second-lowest in
the world among 197 banks tracked by Bloomberg at 70.64 basis
points, compared with the 321.93 average. The average for U.S.
banks is 135.65 and 435.94 in  Europe . A basis point is one-
hundredth of a percent, and each additional point means an extra
$1,000 a year to protect $10 million of debt for five years.  Sharp Tools  Jimmie Akesson, 32, leader of the Sweden Democrats, said in
parliament in a debate last month that he wants lawmakers to
deploy “sharp tools” to block further tax cuts. His party’s
entry into the legislature last September has made it more
difficult for either bloc to secure a majority vote.  Sweden’s budget law means that a minority can pass a budget
bill as long as the majority is not united in support of a
single opposing proposal. So far, minority governments have
shepherded their spending and tax bills through parliament
without being hampered by the opposition. That may be about to
change.  Social Democrats  and their allies are trying to maneuver
around the budget law, creating a precedent that may weaken
minority governments in future. Reinfeldt has warned he won’t
compromise, bringing the country closer to a snap election.
Lawmakers vote on the budget in December.  Ultimate Weapon  “If you’re ready to take collective responsibility for
dismantling our jobs-line, increasing aid to those that don’t
work, and taking down our whole jobs policy, so be it,”
Reinfeldt, 45, said during the June debate. “Parliament always
has the ultimate weapon in a vote of no confidence if it wants
to switch governments.”  Reinfeldt’s Moderate Party has set up a  ticker on its
website  to track Juholt’s proposals, which it estimates will
cost taxpayers 135 billion kronor ($21 billion).  Julholt, 48, says a lack of labor market policies has
created a large group of long-term unemployed who have been
excluded from the economic recovery. He wants more spending on
railways and roads to spur growth.  “A government shift would be negative for the markets,”
Nicola Mai, an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said by phone
from  London . “This government is seen as pushing measures that
are growth friendly.”  Falling Debt  Sweden’s economy grew 5.7 percent last year, the most in
the EU. Output will expand 4.5 percent this year, compared with
the average 2.3 percent for industrialized countries and 2
percent for the 17-member euro area, the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said in May.  Swedish debt will fall to 33.4 percent of gross domestic
product next year from 39.8 percent in 2010, according to the
European Commission. That’s less than half the EU 2012 average
of 83.3 percent, the commission estimates.  According to Roger Josefsson, chief economist at Danske
Bank A/S in Stockholm, a Social Democrat-led government is just
as likely to pursue responsible fiscal policies as Reinfeldt’s
coalition. He also said he expects the opposition to exercise
caution in its efforts to derail Reinfeldt’s tax cuts to avoid
leaving itself “open to political backlash later.”  Reinfeldt’s four-party coalition has 173 lawmakers in the
349-seat assembly, after winning 49.3 percent of the vote in the
September election. The Sweden Democrats won 5.7 percent,
depriving Reinfeldt of a majority and leading to a number of
legislative defeats for the government since the election. The
coalition has had to drop plans to sell some state assets and
has shelved a jobs program.  “The government is in trouble,”  Stig-Bjorn Ljunggren , a
Social Democratic political scientist and author, said by phone
on July 12. “I think we will see more frequent defeats this
fall unless Reinfeldt switches tactics.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim McLaughlin in Stockholm at 
 Kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net ;
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at   jbergman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  