-- 
Swedbank Beats Estimates on Baltic Rebound

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-07-21T07:07:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/swedbank-second-quarter-net-beats-estimates-on-baltic-rebound.html
Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , the largest lender in
the Baltic states, more than doubled second-quarter profit amid
a continued recovery in Estonia, Latvia and  Lithuania .  Net income climbed to 3.45 billion kronor ($540 million) in
the three months ended June 30, from 1.57 billion kronor in the
year-earlier period, the Stockholm-based lender said today in a
statement. That beat the average 3.22 billion-krona estimate of
16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We expect a gradual improvement in profit before credit
impairments, excluding one-off items,” Chief Executive Officer
Michael Wolf said in the statement. “Impairments are expected
to remain low with good potential for recoveries in the Baltic
countries, Russia and Ukraine.”  Nordea, Swedbank,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  and SEB AB all
passed the European Banking Authority’s stress test on July 15
with a core Tier 1 capital ratio, a key measure of financial
strength, of at least 8.6 percent under an “adverse” scenario.
An economic recovery in the Baltic region allowed Swedbank to
recoup 324 million kronor in bad-loan provisions in the quarter,
following credit impairments of 963 million kronor a year
earlier.  Swedbank shares climbed as much as 3.7 percent and were up
3.6 percent, or 3.8 kronor, at 108.1 kronor as of 9:02 a.m. in
Stockholm trading, the biggest gain since February 8.  Sweden , home to four of the Nordic region’s six largest
banks, wants its lenders to follow tougher capital standards
than those set out by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , and to push the changes through earlier.  The lender’s net interest income, the difference between
what the bank earns from lending and what it pays on deposits,
jumped 25 percent to 4.74 billion kronor in the quarter, while
its net commission income slipped 6.3 percent to 2.24 billion
kronor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  