-- 
Swiss Financial Adviser Charged With Offshore Tax Scheme

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-07-21T20:53:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/swiss-financial-adviser-accused-by-u-s-of-hiding-184-million-offshore.html
Federal prosecutors in  New York 
accused a Swiss financial adviser of conspiring with more than
60 U.S. taxpayers to hide more than $184 million in offshore
accounts.  The indictment unsealed today in Manhattan federal court
charges Beda Singenberger, 57, of Zurich with a single count of
conspiracy, which carries a maximum prison term of five years.
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said Singenberger took part in an
11-year scheme to help U.S. clients hide assets from the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service in Swiss bank accounts.  According to the indictment, Singenberger set up phony
Liechtenstein foundations and fake Hong Kong,  Panama  and British
Virgin Islands corporations to conceal the ownership of accounts
established at various Swiss banks.  When it became public in 2008 that  UBS AG (UBSN) , one of the banks
where Singenberger’s client accounts were held, was under
investigation by the U.S., he helped move the accounts to other
Swiss banks that didn’t have U.S. operations, prosecutors said.  In 2009, the U.S. criminally charged UBS with aiding  tax
evasion  by U.S. clients. Zurich-based UBS avoided prosecution by
paying $780 million, admitting it fostered tax evasion and
giving the IRS data on more than 250 accounts to avoid criminal
prosecution. The bank later turned over data on another 4,450
accounts. The U.S. dropped its criminal case against UBS in
October.  Not in Custody  Bharara’s office said Singenberger isn’t in U.S. custody. A
call placed to his Zurich-based  Sinco Treuhand AG  after business
hours wasn’t answered.  According to the indictment, between 2007 and 2010
Singenberger gave one of his U.S. clients a document providing
information about many of his clients and prospective clients,
including names, places of residence and the names of the
entities set up to shield the accounts from U.S. scrutiny.  The indictment describes how Singenberger allegedly advised
clients to set up sham entities whose names included Lucky
Overseas Ventures Ltd. and Real Cool Investments Ltd., to hide
the fact that the account owners were U.S. citizens. It includes
detailed allegations of Singenberger’s work for five unnamed
U.S. clients.  In addition to UBS, Singenberger’s client accounts were
held at several unnamed banks based in Switzerland and
Liechtenstein.  Three Charged  The entities named in the indictment correspond to those
cited in criminal charges against at least three U.S. residents
charged last year in New York and  Boston  with hiding income in
Swiss accounts. All three, Gregory Rudolph, Ernest Vogliano and
Sybil Nancy Upham, pleaded guilty, according to court records.
Vogliano was sentenced to two years’ probation and fined
$10,000. Rudolph and Upham are awaiting sentencing.  Prosecutors said U.S. law requires residents to declare
income and to report to the IRS any overseas bank accounts of
more than $10,000.  According to the indictment, after news accounts reported in
May 2008 that Bradley Birkenfeld, a UBS banker, was going to
plead guilty to tax charges and cooperate with the U.S.
investigation, Singenberger met with one of his clients,
identified in the indictment as “Client 2.”  Client 2 had inherited an undeclared UBS account.
Singenberger helped Client 2 set up a sham  Hong Kong 
corporation, Sinohigh Investments Ltd., and moved the account
from UBS to a different Swiss bank, according to the indictment.  Prosecutors said Singenberger’s firm was paid $10,000 for
the transaction. Client 2 allegedly didn’t report to the IRS the
income from the account, which held $2.3 million, or report its
existence, as required.  Singenberger told Client 2 that “only banks with
operations in the  United States  were in a position to be
affected by the investigation of UBS,” according to the
indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Singenberger, 11CR620, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in  Manhattan  federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  