-- 
U.K. Retail Sales Rise as Stores Cut Prices to Lure Shoppers

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-07-21T11:10:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/u-k-retail-sales-rise-as-stores-cut-prices.html
U.K. retail sales rose in June as
shops offered discounts to lure consumers squeezed by
strengthening inflation and slow wage growth.  Sales including fuel rose 0.7 percent from May, when they
dropped a revised 1.3 percent, the  Office for National
Statistics  said today in London. The median forecast of 22
economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a 0.6 percent increase.
On the year, sales increased 0.4 percent. The statistics office
said there was “anecdotal evidence” of summer sales starting
earlier this year.  Consumer confidence  fell last month as the economic outlook
dimmed and higher fuel prices left households with less
disposable income,  Nationwide Building Society  said today. The
 Bank of England  left the key interest rate at a record low this
month, with policy makers saying the current economic weakness
may persist “for longer than previously thought.”  “On the face of it, the strong growth in sales in June
looks encouraging, but there is a strong probability that these
results are just a reflection of the summer sales beginning
earlier than usual,” said Nida Ali, an economist at Ernst &
Young’s Item Club. Still, “this is a very short-term solution
and one which merely papers over the cracks.”  Discounts  The monthly increase in retail sales was led by household-
goods stores, where sales jumped 2.6 percent. That was partly
boosted by “big discounting” in furniture stores, according to
the statistics office. Food sales fell 0.2 percent from May,
while sales of clothes rose 0.6 percent.  Excluding fuel, retail sales increased 0.8 percent on the
month and were up 0.2 percent on the year.  Internet sales 
accounted for 9.9 percent of all retail sales in June, up from
6.8 percent a year earlier.  “Discounts in discretionary goods during the month appear
to have been successful in inducing demand,” said Philip Rush,
an economist at Nomura International Plc in London. “Insofar as
this is coming at the expense of profit margins, that might
explain the series of bleak reports by U.K. retailers.”  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS)  said on June 23 that the economic
backdrop remains “challenging.”  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , the
U.K.’s biggest clothing retailer, on July 13 reported sales
growth that missed some estimates as revenue from general
merchandise such as apparel and furniture stagnated.  Budget Deficit   U.K. inflation was 4.2 percent in June, outpacing wage
growth, which was 2.3 percent in the three months through May.  The retail sales deflator, a measure of changes in shop
prices, was an annual 3.7 percent in June compared with 3.8
percent in May, the statistics office said today. Excluding auto
fuel, the deflator was 2.3 percent. The food-price deflator was
5.8 percent, the highest since 2009.  In a separate report, the statistics office said Britain’s
budget shortfall excluding government support for banks was 14
billion pounds ($22.6 billion) in June, little changed from the
13.6 billion pounds posted a year earlier. That compared with
the 12.5 billion-pound median forecast of 13 economists.  The pound trade at $1.6147 as of 11:28 a.m. in  London ,
little changed from yesterday.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s plans to
reduce the deficit may be hampered by a slowing economic
recovery. While the U.K. economy expanded 0.5 percent in the
first quarter, growth may have slowed in the second quarter,
with Markit Economics saying this month that its surveys of
manufacturing and services point to gross-domestic-product
growth of 0.3 percent “at best.”  “Indicators had pointed toward continued modest underlying
U.K. GDP growth in the second quarter,” the Bank of England
said yesterday in the  minutes  of its July policy meeting. They
also indicated, “more tentatively, to some softening in the
outlook for the third quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  