-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending July 19 (Text)

-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 
2011-07-21T12:43:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-july-19-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  Weekly Summary:  The overall weather pattern for this past week
featured a trough near the west coast, a strong ridge across the
central portions of the contiguous 48 states, and a trough
across the northeast.  The trough near the west coast
contributed to below-normal temperatures west of the Continental
Divide while the ridge across the middle of the lower 48
contributed to temperatures well above normal from Texas to
 Minnesota . This week featured a return of wet weather to the
Gulf Coast region, with rains spreading from southeast  Georgia 
to southeast Texas and temperatures near normal across the
region. Rainfall associated with the North American monsoon was
largely focused across New Mexico and sparse in coverage.  The
northern Great Plains and Pacific Northwest also experienced
significant rains.  Southeast and mid-Atlantic: A dry pattern persisted for the
Carolinas, prompting a slight expansion in coverage of all the
drought categories. Some stations in the area reported rainfall
totals near 1 inch but that amount is right near, or slightly
below the 7-day average (1.0 - 2.0 inches) for many stations
across the Carolinas for the past calendar week.   Many of the
higher rainfall totals were measured near the  Charlotte , NC
metro area, with little impact across the driest coastal
regions.  Farther southwest, significant rains (0.5 - 11.0 inches) fell
across the Gulf Coast region ( Alabama , Mississippi,  Louisiana ,
and the  Florida Panhandle ).  Significant improvements in the
drought designation were made across this region as a result of
the rains.   A two category improvement was not pursued due to
longer term (6-24 months) deficits in the region.  Twelve month
rainfall deficits range from 16 inches to more than 20 inches
below average across the region, despite the recent above-
average rains. Standardized Precipitation Index (SPI) values
from 3-24 months continued to indicate at least severe drought
the region.  Improvements were made across  Florida , due to recent rains (0.5
- 3.7 inches across southern Florida) and an improving
hydrological situation (some wells have recovered by 50 percent
and the South Florida Water Management District (SFWMD) reports
an excess of water groundwater supply in some water conservation
areas).  Improvements were tempered by the continued low levels
in Lake Okeechobee. At just over 10 feet, Lake Okeechobee is not
expected to exceed minimum water management levels by the end of
the year even with near average rainy season inputs.  Great Plains:  The drought conditions across the Southern Great
Plains persisted, and worsened across most areas, with localized
improvements due to isolated rain events.  AHPS precipitation
estimates in excess of 5 inches prompted the improvement across
southeastern  Texas  while sparse rainfall just east of El Paso
also allowed for minor improvement.  The rest of the southern
Great Plains experienced continued hot (2 - 8 degrees F above
normal) and dry weather.  Exception drought (D4) coverage was
expanded in coverage across portions of Texas, including Erath,
Hood, Somervell, Comanche, Jim Wells, and Duval counties.
Additional expansion and intensification of the less severe
drought conditions was included in the latest analysis across
central Texas.  Rockies and Southwest: Rainfall (approximately 0.5 inch)
associated with monsoonal moisture contributed to a small
improvement across northwest New Mexico (McKinley County).  The
central portions of New Mexico remained dry while some portions
across the south received nearly 6 inches of rainfall.  Even
with 4-6 inches falling in the Cloudcroft region, improvement
could not be pursued as average rainfall is 5.2 inches.  Within
the same climate division, most other stations reported less
than 1 inch of total rainfall during July.  Minor changes were made in the drought depiction across
southeastern  Colorado .  Radar estimated rainfall indicates
higher amounts as much of the rain has been evaporating before
reaching the ground (as is the case across much of western
 Oklahoma  and  New Mexico ).  Impacts from the drought continue to
linger across the southernmost portions of Colorado, while the
improvements were made across central Colorado to reflect the
rains this week (0.5 - 2.7 inches).  Great Lakes: Continued dryness that began about 60 days ago
prompted the introduction of an area of abnormal dryness (D0) to
the map across the lower Great Lakes region.  Farmers have
reported cracking ground and up-turned leaves on corn plants
across northern  Indiana .  Precipitation during the last 30 days
has been less than 50% of normal for many portions of eastern
 Iowa , northern  Illinois , and Indiana.  Across western  New York  and  Pennsylvania , continued dry
conditions lead to an expansion of the recently introduced D0
area.  Local National Weather Service offices reported that
after one of wettest springs ever across western New York and
northwestern Pennsylvania, rainfall totals across the region
since June 1 are only about half of normal. Additionally, the
airport at Buffalo New York has received less than 2 hours of
rainfall during the past 18 days.  Hawaii ,  Alaska , and Puerto Rico: Rainfall across Puerto Rico was
significant so no dryness is depicted.  Windward areas of Hawaii have been receiving rainfall so D0 on
the northeast-facing slopes of Maui and the Big Island was
scaled back. Afternoon upslope showers over the NW portion of
the Big Island contributed to some improvement in the moderate
drought (D1) area. Across the Kona District, rainfall has been
below normal so abnormal dryness (D0) was expanded across the
western portions of the Big Island.  On the south side of the
Big Island (Kau District), the United States Department of
Agriculture field agents indicated that pastures have been
deteriorating, so D1 was expanded.  The depiction across Alaska was modified to match the driest
areas for the most recent 30 and 90 day periods, with a small
reduction in coverage to reflect rains during the last week.
Rainfall totals were between 0.5 and 1.5 inches across southern
interior portions of Alaska. The panhandle of Alaska remained
dry, and should be monitored closely for deteriorating
conditions.  Looking Ahead:  July 20 - 26, 2011 - The atmospheric flow
pattern is expected to bring significant precipitation to the
northern Great Plains and middle  Mississippi  River Valley.
Moisture associated with the North American monsoon is expected
to bring rainfall to much of  Arizona  and Colorado.  Afternoon
thunderstorms are likely across most of the southeast, with a
focus across central Alabama, Georgia, and Florida. Dry
conditions are expected to continue across Texas and Oklahoma,
with little relief forecast.  Temperatures are expected to
remain above normal for the central portions of the contiguous
48 states and below-normal along the Pacific Coast.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  