-- 
U.S. Bans Drew Medical CEO From Medicare Business on Fraud Case

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-07-21T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/u-s-bans-drew-medical-ceo-from-medicare-business-on-fraud-case.html
The chief executive officer of Drew
Medical Inc. will be banned from doing business with Medicare
for eight years after his company tried to defraud the U.S. of
$1.6 million, the government said.  Michael Dinkel headed the closely held medical-imaging
company in Ocoee,  Florida , when it billed Medicare and Medicaid
for 9,500 procedures over two years that were never performed,
the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services inspector
general said today in a statement. The ban comes on top of a
$1.1 million fine.  “In cases such as these, payment of civil damages is
important but not always sufficient,” said inspector general
Daniel Levinson in the statement. He said his office targeted
Dinkel “based on the magnitude of the false claims and our
assessment that he is untrustworthy and should not be allowed to
participate in federal health care programs.”  U.S. law lets government inspectors bar CEOs from doing
business with Medicare and Medicaid under a process called
 exclusion . Actions can be prompted by cases of fraud or for
making counterfeit drugs or devices. Medicare is the U.S. health
insurance program for the elderly and disabled; Medicaid is the
joint federal-state program for the poor.  The exclusions are part of an expanded U.S. legal authority
announced in October 2010 following fines on drugmakers
including London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  for defective drugs
and New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  for fraudulent marketing. The
business bans penalize executives who knew or should have known
about fraud at their firms, according to the inspector general’s
office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 