-- 
U.S. Army Chief of Staff Nominee Warns Against Troop Reductions

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 
2011-07-21T17:28:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/u-s-army-chief-of-staff-nominee-warns-against-troop-reductions.html
General Raymond Odierno, President
 Barack Obama ’s nominee to become the U.S. Army’s chief of staff,
warned lawmakers today against deep cuts in troops as part of a
deficit-reduction plan.  “We must avoid our historical pattern of drawing down too
fast and getting too small,” Odierno said today at his
confirmation hearing.  Odierno, the top U.S. commander in Iraq until last year, is
the commander of U.S. Joint Forces Command, which crafts
doctrine and joint-service training for the military. He would
succeed General Martin Dempsey, who was tapped by Obama to
succeed Navy Admiral Mike Mullen as chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff.  With 42 percent of the Army budget going to personnel,
funding reductions will surely come in that area, Odierno said.  “We’re a supply and demand business,” he said. “The Army
will pay in force structure.”  The Army is already slated to shed 49,000 active-duty
soldiers by 2017 under the Obama administration’s proposed
budget for fiscal 2012. The service had about 570,000 soldiers
on active duty as of May 31, according to the Defense
Department.  Obama has proposed cutting another $400 billion in
national-security spending through fiscal 2023. A Pentagon
review is studying how to make that target.  Deeper Cuts  Lawmakers are weighing bigger cuts amid the debate over
raising the $14.3 trillion federal debt ceiling. Senator  Tom Coburn , a Republican from  Oklahoma , has proposed $1 trillion in
defense reductions as part of a plan to curb federal spending by
$9 trillion over a decade.  Odierno appeared before the Senate Armed Services Committee
alongside Navy Admiral James Winnefeld, commander of U.S.
Northern Command, nominated to succeed Marine Corps General
James Cartwright as vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
and Air Force General William Fraser, nominated to succeed Air
Force General Duncan McNabb as commander of U.S. Transportation
Command.  The officers received bipartisan support from lawmakers
during the hearing. Senator  John McCain , a Republican from
 Arizona , credited Odierno with helping “turn the tide of battle
in Iraq.” McCain said he was concerned about the size and pace
of the scheduled drawdown in  Afghanistan .  Troop Withdrawals  Responding to a question from committee chairman  Carl Levin , a Democrat from  Michigan , the nominees said they support
President Obama’s plan to withdraw 10,000 U.S. troops from
Afghanistan this year and the 23,000 remaining “surge” troops
by the end of next summer.  The reductions are part of a plan to transfer
responsibility of security to Afghan forces by 2014, which Levin
said is “key to the strategy for success in Afghanistan.”  Odierno said that in Iraq the lack of a formal request from
the country’s leaders to extend the U.S. troop presence  has
made planning more difficult. All of the 46,000 U.S. troops in
 Iraq  are scheduled to leave by the end of the year under the
current agreement between the two countries.  Asked by McCain about how difficult it would be to keep
about 10,000 American troops in the country, Odierno said it was
important to provide Iraq with “the support that is
necessary.”  The committee is expected to hold vote within two weeks on
sending the nominations to the full Senate for confirmation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  