-- 
U.S. Stocks Advance on Plan for Additional Greek Aid, Earnings

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-07-21T20:03:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/u-s-stock-index-futures-decline-intel-qualcomm-ebay-lead-retreat.html
U.S. stocks rallied, extending a
weekly gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as European
officials announced a plan that will give additional aid to
 Greece  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s results beat estimates.  Morgan Stanley jumped 11 percent after the world’s largest
brokerage posted a smaller-than-estimated loss as trading
revenue rose from the first quarter. Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc. soared 12 percent after  Carl Icahn  urged the handset maker
to explore alternatives for its patents.  Medco Health Solutions
Inc. (MHS)  advanced 14 percent after  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  agreed to
buy the pharmacy-benefits manager for $29.1 billion.  The S&P 500 added 1.4 percent to 1,343.80 at 4 p.m. in New
York, extending its gain this week to 2.1 percent. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  climbed 152.50 points, or 1.2 percent, to
12,724.41.  “It’s a sigh of relief,” said Joseph Veranth, chief
investment officer at Dana Investment Advisors in Brookfield,
 Wisconsin , which manages $3.3 billion. “Progress on  Europe ’s
debt situation is allowing the market to remain at these levels.
All of the other satellite countries are looking to see how the
EU settles the debt situation in Greece because it has
ramifications for the European banks. It’s the framework for a
package and the markets have reacted positively.”  Greece will receive additional aid of 109 billion euros
($157 billion), according to the European Union. Italian Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said the total value of a second
Greek bailout is 160 billion euros. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said that measures agreed by euro-region leaders today
to aid Greece will not be replicated to help other countries.  Euro, Stocks  The euro and equities strengthened as European Union said
Greece will receive aid worth 160 billion euros ($230 billion)
and leaders agreed to increase the power of their regional
rescue fund to allow it to act on a precautionary basis, finance
the recapitalization of banks and buy bonds in the secondary
market.  The  S&P 500  extended gains as the New York Times reported
that President Barack Obama and House Speaker  John Boehner  were
close to a “major budget deal,” boosting optimism the world’s
biggest economy will avoid defaulting on its debt. Spokesmen for
Obama and Boehner denied the report.  The S&P 500 had its biggest rally since March on July 19 as
Obama endorsed a bipartisan deficit-reduction plan from the so-
called Gang of Six senators. The index declined 2.8 percent from
a three-year high in April through yesterday amid speculation
the sovereign debt crisis in Europe is spreading and concern
U.S. lawmakers will fail to reach a deal on raising the debt
limit before the Aug. 2 deadline, pushing the government closer
to default.  S&P reiterated today that there is a 50 percent chance it
will lower the U.S. credit rating within three months as
lawmakers struggle to reach agreement.  Earnings Season  Earnings results have boosted U.S. stocks this week. Of the
100 S&P 500 companies that have reported earnings since July 11,
86 percent have exceeded analyst estimates, according to
Bloomberg data.  Stock futures maintained gains after a report said more
Americans than forecast filed claims for  unemployment benefits 
last week. Applications for jobless benefits increased 10,000
last week to 418,000, Labor Department figures showed.
Economists forecast 410,000 claims, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Conference Board’s index of U.S. leading economic
indicators rose 0.3 percent in June, topping the 0.2 percent
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists, and a
Federal Reserve gauge of manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region showed stronger-than-forecast growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  