-- 
Consumers Denied Card, Auto Loans Will Get Free Credit Scores

-- B y   R y a n   M a c
-- 
2011-07-21T15:29:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/u-s-consumers-denied-auto-card-loans-to-get-free-copies-of-credit-scores.html
U.S. consumers denied a credit card
or auto loan will be entitled to free copies of their credit
scores starting today.  The Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law passed last year
expands credit-score disclosure rules and places the
responsibility on financial companies to provide the numbers. It
also forces lenders to give free scores to consumers who don’t
get the best rates when borrowing, a practice known as risk-
based lending.  “The purpose for the law was to provide consumers with
greater access to and information about their credit scores,”
Senator Mark Udall, the Colorado Democrat who proposed the
provision, said in an e-mail. “By seeing the clearest picture
possible of their personal finances, consumers can actively work
to improve their scores,” Udall said in a statement earlier
this month posted on his website.  The rule applies to financial-services companies that use
scores to make loans. The most common scores are based on models
established by Minneapolis-based FICO, formerly known as  Fair
Isaac Corp. (FICO) , which are used to gauge a consumer’s financial
health. The numbers, which range from 300 to 850, affect the
ability to get mortgages, credit cards and insurance products,
as well as the rates borrowers pay for them. Under current laws,
all consumers are entitled to free annual credit reports, not
their actual scores.  CFPB Report  “The law will affect credit-related transactions that
occur tens of thousands of times every day,” said John
Ulzheimer, president of consumer education at  Costa Mesa ,
California-based  SmartCredit.com , which offers consumers credit
scores, monitoring and identity protection. It’s “something
consumers have wanted and have not had the ability to execute
for near 50 years now since credit scoring has been used.”  The rule also requires that a credit score be accompanied
by the four main reasons why the number wasn’t higher, such as
delinquent accounts, Ulzheimer said.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which begins
formal operations today, is responsible for ensuring that
lenders comply and give consumers who are denied credit or don’t
get the best rates free scores. President  Barack Obama  nominated
 Richard Cordray  earlier this week to head the bureau, which was
created by the Dodd-Frank legislation. Jen Howard, a spokeswoman
for the CFPB, declined to comment on the credit disclosure law
and how it will be implemented and enforced.  Consumer Awareness  Consumers may be unaware of the variety of credit scores
available and may purchase a score thinking it’s their only
“true” score, according to a  report  released July 19 by the
CFPB. This could negatively impact them “if the credit scores
the consumer buys give a substantially different impression of
his or her credit risk than credit scores that a lender would
use,” the report said. For example, VantageScore developed by
VantageScore Solutions LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , and also
used by lenders, has a 501 to 990 range for measuring credit
risk.  When Capital One Financial Corp. uses a credit score to
determine an interest rate or decline an applicant, it will
disclose the score in a notice to the consumer, said Pam
Girardo, a spokeswoman for the McLean, Virginia-based bank.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  said it had plenty of advance notice
about the rule and was able to implement the necessary changes
to provide scores, said Erin Downs, a spokeswoman for the San
Francisco-based bank.  Bank Compliance  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-largest  U.S. bank  by
assets behind  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , is “prepared to support
new regulatory disclosure requirements,” said Steve O’Halloran,
a spokesman for the New York-based bank.  American Express Co., the biggest credit-card issuer by
purchases, will be disclosing credit scores and related
information in notices when a score is used to decline an
application for a credit or charge card, reduce the account
limit or cancel the account, said Leah Gerstner, a spokeswoman
for the New York-based company.  Since 2004 mortgage lenders have had to provide credit
scores to borrowers who are turned down, said SmartCredit.com’s
Ulzheimer.  It’s unclear whether the rule also will apply to so-called
custom credit scores used for non-lending, such as renting an
apartment or purchasing insurance, according to Chi Chi Wu, an
attorney at the  National Consumer Law Center  in  Boston .
Landlords and insurance providers may use custom scores derived
from credit reports, which may not be covered by Udall’s
provision.  Elite Scores  Any lenders that use traditional FICO scores, such as
student-loan companies or credit-card issuers, will have to
supply scores to consumers, said Ulzheimer. The score is used by
90 of the 100 largest U.S. financial institutions, according to
FICO’s website.  A FICO score of 760 is considered an “elite credit
score,” according to Ulzheimer, who said that any number at or
above that figure would likely mean a borrower gets the best
interest rate offer.  The average rate for borrowers with credit scores of 700
for a 5-year new car loan is 5.48 percent, yet those with scores
of 700 or better can shop around and qualify for rates as low as
2.5 percent, said  Greg McBride , senior financial analyst for
Bankrate.com, the  North Palm Beach , Florida-based website that
tracks bank products.  Some consumers incorrectly expect that they’ll get their
credit scores when obtaining their free annual credit reports at
annualcreditreport.com, according to Liz Weston, author of
“Your Credit Score.” Consumers can receive free copies from
each of the nationwide credit bureaus, Equifax Inc., Experian
Plc and TransUnion Corp., once every 12 months.  Not Free  “People assume their credit scores are free because they
get free annual access to their credit reports, and they don’t
understand the difference between the two,” she said. A credit
report contains information such as borrowers’ addresses, public
records and payment history.  Consumers who aren’t entitled to free credit scores under
the rule will have to pay $19.95 on  myFICO.com  for a FICO credit
score and report.  Giving some consumers free credit scores is “a step in the
right direction” toward transparency in consumer finance, said
Udall, the Colorado senator.  “We already require that consumers be provided a free
annual credit report,” he said. “I think we ought to go all
the way and allow consumers to access their credit scores for
free as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Mac in New York at 
 Rmac3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 