-- 
U.S. Risks an August Rating Downgrade If No Deficit Progress, S&P Says

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-07-21T18:15:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/u-s-risks-august-downgrade-if-no-deficit-progress-s-p-says.html
Standard & Poor’s  reiterated that
the U.S. may lose its AAA credit rating as soon as August as the
risk of a default escalates amid political wrangling to lift the
debt limit while cutting the  budget deficit .  The rating may be lowered to the AA+ range with a negative
outlook next month even if an agreement to raise the debt
ceiling in time to avert a potential default without a
“credible” plan to lower deficits, S&P said in a report. The
New York-based ratings company reiterated today that the chance
of a downgrade is 50 percent in the next three months, as
outlined when it placed the rating on “CreditWatch” for a
downgrade on July 14.  The stepped-up pressure from S&P comes as U.S. Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said the U.S. House’s decision to be
out of session this weekend presents “a bad picture” to
Americans as an Aug. 2 deadline nears for possible default.
House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, noted that the
House has passed a proposal that would slash spending while
conditioning a $2.4 trillion increase in the debt ceiling on
passage of a constitutional amendment to balance the budget and
make it more difficult to raise taxes. President  Barack Obama 
has said he’ll veto the bill.  “The proposals seem too grand to get anything permanent
done within this timeframe,”  Ray Remy , head of fixed income in
New York at Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc., one of 20
primary dealers that trade directly with the  Federal Reserve ,
said in a telephone interview. “On the surface it looks good,
but a temporary raise in the ceiling is not good.”  ‘Gang of Six’  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes climbed nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 3.2 percent at 2:12 p.m. in
New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125
percent securities maturing in May 2021 dropped 25/32, or $7.81
per $1,000 face amount, to 101 27/32.  A bipartisan group of senators called the Gang of Six
proposed a $3.7 trillion deficit-reduction plan that has been
embraced by Obama. Some Republicans have endorsed it or signaled
openness to considering it. Lawmakers are focusing talks on the
so-called grand bargain as well as providing a short-term
increase in the debt limit, according to Representative  Steny Hoyer , a Democrat from  Maryland .  The U.S. would be cut to SD, or selective default, if it
missed a payment on its debt, S&P said again today in a report.
The Treasury has said the government, which reached its $14.3
trillion borrowing limit on May 16, will run out of options to
prevent a default on Aug. 2.  Ratings Warnings  Fitch Ratings  reiterated July 18 that it would cut all
defaulted  Treasury securities  that it ranks to B+ from AAA if
the government’s misses a debt payment. Moody’s Investors
Service on July 13 put the U.S. on review for downgrade, saying
the rating would be cut to the Aa range after a default.  A deal to raise the U.S. debt limit in return for spending
cuts and revenue increases that would be determined later may
not persuade S&P to remove its negative outlook on the
government’s AAA credit rating as the firm evaluates “the
likelihood that an agreed plan will be implemented.”  Ten-year Treasury yields of 3.125 percent are less than the
average of about 4.07 percent during the past decade.  Investors should be wary that lower yields may still mask a
burgeoning crisis, Mohamed A. El-Erian, chief executive and co-
chief investment officer at Pacific Investment Management Co,
said during a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with
 Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  ‘Too Late’  “I heard that very same statement in the case of  Greece ,”
El-Erian said. “I wouldn’t underestimate how technical factors
tend to contain prices until it’s too late.”  Euro-area leaders are considering accepting a temporary
Greek default and widening the scope of their rescue fund as
they try to resolve the region’s 21-month sovereign debt crisis.
Greece is being charged about 34 percent to borrow for two
years, compared with 10 percent a year ago and 1.6 percent in
2009.  Short-term  interest rates  may increase about 50 basis
points while “shoving the  U.S. economy  back into recession” if
the government fails to boost the debt ceiling and agree on
reducing the deficit, S&P said. The government has $59 billion
of debt maturing Aug. 4 and Aug. 11, and has $62 billion due on
Aug. 15, S&P said.  U.S. economic growth may be reduced by as much as 50 basis
points and longer-term yields would rise by the same amount if
the U.S. was cut one level to AA+, S&P said.  The cost of insuring Treasuries for five years with credit-
default swaps fell 0.2 basis point to 53 basis points, according
to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  