-- 
U.S. July Philadelphia Business Outlook Report (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-07-21T14:13:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/u-s-july-philadelphia-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Philadelphia area manufacturing activity from the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia .  Responses to the Business Outlook Survey suggest that regional
manufacturing activity remained weak in July. The survey’s
indicators for activity and new orders, which had turned
negative last month, recovered somewhat but are at very
low positive readings.  Firms indicated that employment grew
modestly while the average workweek lessened.  Indexes for
prices show a continuing trend of moderating price pressures.
The broadest indicator of future activity improved markedly this
month, rebounding from its lowest reading in 31 months in June.  Indicators Suggest Activity Is Near Steady  The survey’ broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the
diffusion index of current activity, increased to 3.2 from -7.7
(see Chart). The demand for manufactured goods, as measured by
the current new orders index, improved from
last month but suggests flat demand: The index rose 8 points to
a reading of zero, and the percentage of firms reporting
increases was equally matched by the percentage reporting
decreases (28 percent).  The current shipments index
remained slightly positive but virtually unchanged from June.  Firms’ responses suggest a slight improvement in the labor
market compared to June.  The current employment index increased
5 points and remained positive for the 11th consecutive month.
About 22 percent of the firms reported an increase in employment,
up slightly from 14 percent last month.  Slightly more firms
reported a shorter workweek (21 percent) than re-ported a longer
one (15 percent) and the workweek index was down 7 points.  Price Pressures Show Further Moderation  Diffusion indexes for prices paid and prices received were lower
this month and suggest a continued trend of moderating price
pressures.  The prices paid index declined 2 points, following a
sharp drop of 22 points last month. Still,
one-third of the firms reported higher prices for inputs this
month, and 8 percent reported a decline. Only slightly more
firms reported a rise in prices for manufactured goods (18
percent) than reported declines (17 percent). The prices
received index decreased 3 points, its third consecutive monthly
decline.  Six-Month Indicators Rebound  The survey’s indicators for future activity showed notable
improvement this month. The future general activity index
increased 21 points but still remained well below average
readings in the first quarter. The indexes for
future new orders and shipments also increased, 20 and 16 points,
respectively. The index for future employment increased more
moderately, by 5 points, and also remains well below average
readings in the first quarter.  More firms expect to increase
employment over the next six months (30 percent) than expect to
decrease employment (20 percent).  In special questions this month, firms were asked about recent
trends in demand for their manufactured goods and to
characterize the reasons for any slowing. Slightly over half of
the firms indicated that demand had increased recently,
while 26 percent  indicated that demand had slowed.  Of those
firms that experienced some slowing, the most frequently cited
reasons were increased uncertainty and higher prices for energy,
commodities, and transportation. Firms were also asked about
their forecast for production in the third quarter
compared to the second quarter.  The median forecast called for
a meager 0.5 percent increase in production, with a large share
of firms situated at either end of the range of growth rates.
Over 21 percent of the firms expected increases of greater than
4 percent and 18 percent expected decreases of more than 4
percent.  Summary  According to respondents to the July Business Outlook Survey,
the region’s manufacturing sector remained weak in July. The
survey’s indicators suggested flat demand for manufactured goods
this month, while shipments and employment grew only slightly.
Price measures suggested continued moderation in price pressures.
The broadest indicators for future activity rebounded after
falling sharply last month and firms are somewhat more
optimistic about their hiring plans over the next six months. 