-- 
Home Prices Drop 6.3% in May From Year Earlier, FHFA Says

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 
2011-07-21T14:51:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/u-s-home-prices-decreased-6-3-in-may-from-previous-12-months-fhfa-says.html
U.S. home prices fell 6.3 percent in
May from a year earlier as foreclosures weighed down values and
purchases slumped.  The decline was led by a 9.9 percent decrease in the region
that includes  California , the  Federal Housing Finance Agency 
said today in a report from  Washington . The second-largest drop
was 9.2 percent in the area that includes Nevada and Arizona.  Foreclosures have boosted the supply of available homes and
reduced prices because the properties sell at a discount. Low
 interest rates  have done little to stimulate demand for homes as
mortgage standards tighten, said Rod Dubitsky, an executive vice
president at Pimco Advisory, a unit of  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., the world’s
biggest bond manager.  “Limited mortgage availability and vulnerable consumer
health across the income and age spectrum are restraining demand
and may continue to do so,” Dubitsky wrote in commentary posted
yesterday on Pimco’s website. “We believe the housing market,
considered to be a key driver of the economic recovery, will
generally remain weak for the foreseeable future.”  Prices rose 0.4 percent from April, the FHFA said.
Economists had projected a 0.1 percent increase from the
previous month, according to the average of 14 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  Today’s FHFA report is based on repeat-sales data that
compares prices of the same properties over time. The regulatory
agency, which measures sales of homes with mortgages backed by
 Fannie Mae  or  Freddie Mac , doesn’t provide a specific price.  The median price of a home sold in May, the period covered
by the FHFA report, was $169,300, according to the National
Association of Realtors.  In June, the median price was $184,300, the Chicago-based
trade group said yesterday. Sales of existing U.S. homes fell
last month to an annual pace of 4.77 million, the lowest level
since November, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 