-- 
U.S. June Leading Economic Indicators (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-07-21T14:13:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/u-s-june-leading-economic-indicators-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
leading economic indicators from the Conference Board.  The Conference Board Leading Economic Index for the U.S.
increased 0.3 percent in June to 115.3 (2004 = 100), following a
0.8 percent increase in May, and a 0.3 percent decline in April.
The largest positive contributions came from money supply, the
interest rate spread, and building permits.  Says Ataman Ozyildirim, economist at The Conference Board:
“The U.S. LEI continued to increase in June, but the strengths
among the leading indicators have been balanced with the
weaknesses in recent months. The Coincident Economic Index, a
monthly measure of current economic activity, continued to
increase slowly. The leading indicators point to slowly
expanding economic activity in the coming months.”  Says  Ken Goldstein , economist at The Conference Board: “The
economy faced some recent unexpected headwinds, including a
shortage of auto and electronic parts from  Japan  after the
earthquake, and damaging tornado and flooding activity in the
U.S. Another potential headwind is the debt ceiling issue, which
could result in a financial crisis in the near term if not
resolved. If these headwinds subside, the underlying trend of
slow growth, as suggested by the LEI, should become more
apparent over the next few months.  The Conference Board Coincident Economic Index for the U.S.
increased 0.1 percent in June to 102.9 (2004 = 100), following a
0.1 percent increase in May, and a 0.1 percent decline in April.
All of the four coincident indicators have advanced over the
past six months.  The Conference Board Lagging Economic Index increased 0.3
percent in June to 109.5 (2004 = 100), following a 0.2 percent
increase in May, and a 0.6 percent increase in April.  About The Conference Board Leading Economic Index for the U.S.  The composite economic indexes are the key elements in an
analytic system designed to signal peaks and troughs in the
business cycle. The leading, coincident, and lagging economic
indexes are essentially composite averages of several individual
leading, coincident, or lagging indicators. They are constructed
to summarize and reveal common turning point patterns in
economic data in a clearer and more convincing manner than any
individual component - primarily because they smooth out some of
the volatility of individual components.  The ten components of The Conference Board Leading Economic
Index for the U.S. include:  Average weekly hours, manufacturing  Average weekly initial claims for  unemployment insurance   Manufacturers’ new orders,  consumer goods  and materials  Index of supplier deliveries - vendor performance  Manufacturers’ new orders, nondefense capital goods  Building permits, new private housing units  Stock prices, 500 common stocks  Money supply, M2  Interest rate spread, 10-year Treasury bonds less federal
funds  Index of consumer expectations  The next release is scheduled for Thursday, August 18, 2011 at
10 A.M. ET.  SOURCE: The Conference Board 