-- 
U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for July 21 to Oct. 2011 (Text)

-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 
2011-07-21T12:54:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-july-21-to-oct-2011-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
Seasonal Drought Outlook as released by the  National Weather
Service  in Camp Springs, Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - Climate anomalies attributed to the
Summer 2010 - Spring 2011 La Nina event promoted widespread
drought development and intensification across the southern tier
of the U.S. In many locations, significant deterioration
occurred, with 65 percent of the current drought areas
categorized as extreme or exceptional, and nearly 42 percent of
drought areas categorized as exceptional (D4). During the
previous two weeks, a persistent ridge of high pressure
maintained hot, dry conditions across the core drought areas of
the southern Plains states, while a series of stalled fronts
sparked scattered to numerous thunderstorms across the Southeast
and mid-Atlantic, bringing localized drought relief. Copious
rainfall fell across the central and eastern  Gulf Coast ,
bringing more substantial relief, while daily wet-season
thunderstorms throughout the  Florida  Peninsula began eroding
entrenched drought conditions. While monsoon rainfall was
generous across much of Arizona, Utah, and Colorado, many core
drought areas of  New Mexico  and western  Texas  received subnormal
rainfall. Continued drought improvement is expected under the
monsoon regime in the Southwest, although the prospects for
significant relief across the eastern monsoon region are less
certain due to the lackluster start to the summer rainfall.
Continued drought improvement is expected across Florida and the
Southeastern coastal plain as the rainy season continues and
enhanced rainfall is more likely during the upcoming three
months. Below-average August rainfall is more likely across the
southern Mississippi Valley region, however, and prospects for
substantial drought relief across the southern Plains remains
limited through October. Across  Hawaii , leeward drought
persistence is expected under the summer trade wind regime,
while developing drought is possible in Alaska’s Kenai Peninsula
region.  SOURCE: National Weather Service  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  