-- 
Chiesi, UBS, RBC Capital, News Corp., Altria in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-07-21T10:36:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/ubs-madoff-rbc-capital-news-corp-altria-in-court-news.html
Danielle Chiesi, the former New
Castle Funds LLC analyst who was heard on a federal wiretap
passing secret tips to Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj
Rajaratnam, was sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison.  U.S. District Court Judge Richard Holwell in Manhattan
yesterday called her crimes “deplorable” as he imposed the
sentence, plus two years of supervised release, on the 45-year-
old former beauty queen. “This was not an isolated
transgression,” he said.  “The message to Wall Street needs to be loud and clear. If
you trade on inside information, you will be caught,” Holwell
said. “And if convicted, you will be sentenced to a substantial
term in prison.”  Chiesi, who wore a light pink sleeveless sheath dress and
pearl necklace, must report Sept. 20 to  Federal Prison Camp
Alderson  in  West Virginia , a minimum-security facility in the
foothills of the Allegheny Mountains where Martha Stewart served
a five-month term after being convicted of lying to federal
authorities about her sale of stocks.  “I know that there’s a punishment for people who do
wrong,” Chiesi told the judge, dropping her head and her voice
choking with emotion. “But it won’t happen again.”  Holwell yesterday also imposed a $25,000 fine and ordered
her to do 250 hours of community service. He directed that she
undergo substance-abuse treatment and therapy “to allow her to
readjust a moral compass which obviously fell by the wayside.”  Chiesi pleaded guilty Jan. 19 to three counts of
conspiracy, telling Holwell at the time that she was “deeply
ashamed” of what she had done.  Chiesi’s lawyer, Alan Kaufman, yesterday asked the judge
for less prison time than the 27 months Holwell imposed last
year on her former boss,  Mark Kurland , co-founder of New Castle
Funds, arguing that she was emotionally and financially
dependent on Kurland. Chiesi’s lawyers claimed in court papers
that Kurland had used their “toxic” sexual relationship to
manipulate her into feeding him inside tips.  Assistant U.S. Attorneys Reed Brodsky, Jonathan Streeter
and Andrew Michaelson had argued that Chiesi should get a term
of 37 to 46 months in prison, citing the U.S. sentencing
guidelines, which aren’t binding.  Kaufman said, “We think the judge gave what he thought was
a fair sentence and we respect the thoughtfulness and
thoroughness he paid. Danielle will serve her sentence and get
on with her life.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-1184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Madoff Trustee May Have to Drop $2 Billion in Claims on UBS  The liquidator of Bernard L. Madoff’s firm may have to drop
about $2 billion in claims against  UBS AG (UBSN)  after telling a
district court judge he will stop demanding damages from the
Swiss bank, based on data from a filing by UBS.  Trustee Irving Picard sued UBS twice, seeking $2.6 billion
and alleging the Zurich-based bank aided Madoff’s fraud by
setting up so-called feeder funds and agreeing “to look the
other way” at irregularities. He told U.S. District Judge
 Colleen McMahon  in Manhattan this month he would ask UBS only to
return money taken from the Ponzi scheme before its 2008
collapse. He had sought “in excess of $2 billion” based on
accusations of wrongdoing, UBS said in the filing last month.  Madoff investors will get much less money if Picard drops
damage claims in other cases. His lawsuit against  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  asks for $19 billion in damages, equal to all money lost
in the fraud. A $1 billion suit against the New York Mets’
owners uses common-law claims to demand the return of $700
million in principal.  “Picard may have made a tactical decision” to retreat
from bigger claims, said Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy lawyer at
Greenebaum Doll & McDonald PLLC in Louisville, Kentucky, who
isn’t involved in Madoff litigation. The U.S. Supreme Court
ruling in the Anna Nicole Smith case indicated that bankruptcy
courts will have smaller powers in the future, he said.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, said the trustee’s
decision to drop two common law causes of action against UBS and
its affiliates “has no impact either on the strength of our
case or on the amounts of recoveries and damages that the
trustee’s actions will seek for ultimate distribution” to
Madoff customers.  After reviewing Picard’s original suit against UBS, Bowles
said the trustee “will get large sums of money using garden
variety bankruptcy law, but he is giving up at least $2 billion
based on common and state law claims.”  Picard’s letter to the judge wasn’t filed in court.
McMahon, who is reviewing the case, noted the trustee’s
“amendment of right” and withdrawal of common law claims in a
letter to both sides’ lawyers filed yesterday in court.  She asked them to clarify by July 22 what claims remain and
what funds Picard is trying to recoup relying solely on “garden
variety bankruptcy” principles.  The case is Picard v. UBS AG, 11-cv-04213, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  BP Lawsuit Judge Denies Bid to Order U.S. to Produce E-Mails  BP Plc (BP/) , trying to counter claims that the company
underestimated the size of last year’s Gulf of Mexico oil spill,
lost its bid for a court order directing the Obama
administration to turn over e-mails from four officials.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Sally Shushan in  New Orleans , who is
handling evidence rulings in lawsuits over the spill, refused to
order the U.S. to produce e-mails from officials including Carol
Browner, former assistant to the president for energy and
climate change. BP said the officials were involved in the
government’s post-spill response including estimates of the flow
of oil from the doomed well.  “BP has not made a sufficient demonstration of need for
the documents,” Shushan said in a one-page ruling yesterday,
denying the request. BP can renew its bid for the e-mails if
documents produced in the future “demonstrate a need for
discovery,” or additional evidence, from the White House, she
said.  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and the explosion that
followed killed 11 workers. The accident and spill led to
hundreds of lawsuits against BP and its partners and
contractors, including a suit brought by the U.S. under federal
pollution laws.  Most of the lawsuits are combined before U.S. District
Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans. BP’s letter, sent July 7, was
filed in the court docket yesterday.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  U.K. Gets Freeze Order Against Swiss Asset-Management Firm  The Financial Services Authority won a court order freezing
the U.K. assets of Da Vinci Invest Ltd., a Swiss asset-
management firm, as part of a market-abuse case.  Judge Peter Smith in  London  agreed to extend a previous
freezing order and accepted assurances from the defendants not
to carry out improper activities. FSA lawyer Javan Herberg told
Smith that Unterageri, Switzerland-based Da Vinci Invest and
four individual defendants were suspected of market
manipulation.  Da Vinci provides alternative investment products to
wealthy individuals and institutional investors, according to
its website. The Da Vinci Strategies UI Fund has $3.1 million
under management.  While Da Vinci does have “legitimate business” in
Switzerland, the FSA identified a “very long and repeated
pattern of trading” that was cause for concern, Herberg said.  Lawyers for Da Vinci didn’t attend the hearing. The firm
said yesterday it was not at fault for actions carried out by
third parties.  “We funded some Hungarian traders who traded on the London
stock exchange and the FSA has the opinion that they broke some
rules,” Hendrik Klein, the chief executive officer of Da Vinci
said by phone. “We controlled their risk but we didn’t know
exactly how they traded.”  The case is The Financial Services Authority v. Da Vinci
Invest Limited & Ors, 11-02409.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Sony Sued by Zurich American Insurance Over Hacking Defense  Zurich American Insurance Co. sued  Sony Corp. (SNE) ’s U.S. unit
over its obligation to defend lawsuits and possible probes
related to hacking of Sony’s PlayStation Network.  Sony has demanded that Zurich American and Zurich Insurance
Co. Ltd., both units of Switzerland-based  Zurich Financial
Services AG (ZURN) , “defend and potentially indemnify them” from
class-action lawsuits, miscellaneous claims and possible probes
by state attorneys general over the hacking.  Zurich American and Zurich Insurance “are not obligated to
defend or indemnify any of the Sony defendants for the claims
asserted,” says the lawsuit, which was filed yesterday in New
York state Supreme Court in Manhattan.  Sony restored full PlayStation Network and Qriocity online
services in Japan earlier this month, closing a 2 1/2-month
chapter in which hackers forced the company to shut down its
global video-game and movie-streaming operations.  The April attack on Sony’s data centers in San Diego
compromised more than 100 million customer accounts, the second-
largest online data breach in U.S. history, and will cost the
company an estimated 14 billion yen ($173 million) this fiscal
year.  Patrick Seybold , a spokesman for Sony Computer
Entertainment, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message.  The case is Zurich American Insurance Co. vs.  Sony Corp. (6758)  of
America, 651982/2011, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Massachusetts Suing RBC Capital Over Leveraged ETF Sale  Massachusetts’ top securities regulator is suing RBC
Capital Markets LLC and one of its former registered
representatives over the sale of leveraged exchange-traded
funds, saying they sold them to clients who didn’t understand
how the investments worked.  Secretary of the Commonwealth William F. Galvin said RBC
Capital and Michael Zukowski, a former agent, used “dishonest
practices” in selling the funds, according to a statement e-
mailed yesterday. Galvin is seeking restitution to Massachusetts
investors, a cease and desist order, and an administrative fine.  “The point of the complaint is not that the investors lost
money,” Galvin said in the statement. “The dishonesty here is
that the investors, and indeed the agent soliciting their
investment, did not understand the workings of these funds.”  Galvin said that Zukowski, who worked in the firm’s
Osterville office, sold clients “non-traditional” leveraged
and inverse ETFs. Leveraged ETFs use swaps or derivatives to
amplify daily index returns, while the inverse funds are
designed to move in the opposite direction of their benchmark.
The  Financial Industry Regulatory Authority  warned investors and
fund sellers in June 2009 that such ETFs might not be a good fit
for long-term investors. Galvin opened a probe into the products
in July 2009.  Kevin Foster, a spokesman for New York-based RBC Capital
Markets, said the firm was “disappointed” with Galvin’s
lawsuit.  “We have been cooperating fully on this matter which
involves the practices of an ex-employee,” Foster said in an e-
mailed statement, adding the firm has “in place extensive
policies and procedures and training requirements.”  For more, click here.  SEC Sues Michigan Man for Insider Trading in Brink’s Stock  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued a Michigan
man, claiming he traded on information he learned from a
houseguest about the impending acquisition of Brink’s Home
Security Holdings Inc.  The SEC, in a complaint filed July 19 in Manhattan federal
court, claimed that Robert Doyle, 64, made $88,555 in profits
trading in Brink’s Home Security stock after an investment
banker for Tyco International Inc., the buyer, inadvertently
left behind a draft presentation on the deal.  According to the complaint, the unnamed Tyco banker visited
Doyle’s Michigan home from Aug. 23 to Aug. 27, 2009. While
there, the banker worked on a presentation to Tyco’s management
about a proposal to buy Brink’s Home Security, an installer of
security alarms operating as Broadview Security. Months later,
in December 2009, Doyle discovered the draft, according to the
SEC.  “On Jan. 13, 2010, during phone conversations with the
banker, Doyle gleaned from changes in the banker’s travel
schedule that the transaction was imminent,” according to the
complaint.  Doyle profited from trading in Brink’s Home Security stock
after the Jan. 18, 2010, public announcement of the deal caused
its price to jump 30 percent, according to the SEC.  Henry Putzel, Doyle’s lawyer, said his client has settled
the case and will turn over his profits and pay a fine. Putzel
declined to name the banker or identify the banker’s
relationship to Doyle.  The case is U.S. v. Doyle, 11-CV-4964, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Liberty Media’s TruePosition Sues Alcatel Over 4G Locators  Liberty Media Corp.’s TruePosition unit sued Alcatel-
Lucent, LM Ericsson and  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , contending they are
trying to shut it out of access to the next generation of phone-
locator technology.  TruePosition says it provides superior products to help
law-enforcement and other agencies identify locations of mobile
cellular devices, and that the rivals are violating U.S.
antitrust laws, according to a complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in Philadelphia.  Alcatel, Ericsson and Qualcomm are “accelerating
standardization of their own positioning technology” and trying
to “derail” TruePosition’s technology development, according
to court papers.  “The defendants, through the guise of creating objective
standards for the telecommunication industry, conspired to
exclude a competitor,” Stuart Salen, TruePosition general
counsel, said in a statement.  “We haven’t even seen the complaint and as is our general
policy we do not comment on pending litigation,” Mary Ward, a
U.S. spokeswoman for Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent, said in an e-
mailed message.  “We have to review this suit, so we can’t comment on it at
this time,” Fredrik Hallstam, a spokesman for Stockholm-based
Ericsson, said in a telephone interview.  “We just learned of the complaint,” which “appears to be
TruePosition’s dissatisfaction with the standards-setting
process,” and are reviewing it, Christie Thoene, a spokeswoman
for San Diego-based Qualcomm, said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is TruePosition v. LM Ericsson, 11CV4574, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  News Corp. (NWSA)  Lawyer Said Marketing Arm Accessed Rival’s Site  News Corp. acknowledged at a 2009 trial over hacking that
computers at the company’s U.S. marketing arm were used to
access a rival’s password-protected website, Bloomberg News’
David Glovin reports.  The comment constitutes an admission by News Corp., mired
in a voice-mail hacking scandal in the United Kingdom, that it
has been linked to similar conduct in the U.S. The FBI is
investigating whether News Corp. employees attempted such access
to voice-mail accounts of victims of the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attack on New York’s World Trade Center.  Lee Abrams, a lawyer for News America Marketing In-Store
Services, made the comment at a civil trial in Trenton,  New
Jersey , in a lawsuit brought by Floorgraphics Inc., which sold
floor advertising in grocery stores. Floorgraphics accused
Wilton, Connecticut-based News America Marketing of stealing
business by hacking into its secure website 11 times from
October 2003 to January 2004 and through other means.  Abrams told jurors at the Trenton trial that Floorgraphics’
website wasn’t secure and contained only pictures of its
advertising, not confidential financial data. He said News
America Marketing didn’t steal business.  “News America Marketing has succeeded in this business the
old-fashioned way, by working hard to introduce new products,”
he told jurors. Of the alleged hacking, he said there was no
proof that the accessing of Floorgraphics’ site “had any impact
on the success of News America Marketing.”  The case is Floorgraphics v. News America Marketing In-
Store Services Inc, 04-cv-3500, U.S. District Court, District of
New Jersey (Trenton).  For more, click here.  Altria Wages Last-Ditch Fight to Keep Tax Dodge  Altria Group Inc. (MO)  says its battle with the Internal Revenue
Service over tax deals with Oglethorpe Power Corp. and the
Metropolitan Transit Authority in New York will result in a $630
million charge against its 2011 earnings.  These deals, stretching back to 1996, were set up to lower
Altria’s tax bill. The company would purchase an ownership stake
in public utilities, lease the assets back to the utility and
claim millions of dollars in deductions -- without operational
control changing hands. If the court rules against it, Altria
could end up owing the IRS about $2 billion for deductions
claimed from 1996 to 2011, Bloomberg News’ Steven Sloan reports.  The Richmond, Virginia-based company, which owns cigarette
maker Philip Morris USA, is one of the last holdouts to argue in
federal court that its so-called sale-in, lease-out transactions
are valid. These deals, which Congress curbed in 2004 and the
IRS began fighting in 2005, have been criticized as a maneuver
that allowed companies to load up on tax deductions without
taking ownership of the businesses.  A federal appeals court judge in  Washington  rejected a
similar arrangement at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  in April, saying the
deals amount to “abusive tax shelters.”  Christopher Growe , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
St. Louis, said Altria’s agreement to record the charge might
indicate the company’s chances of beating the IRS are dimming.  Steve Callahan, a spokesman for Altria, said the company
wouldn’t comment on the transactions. Altria has already paid
about $1.1 billion in taxes related to these deals and is
seeking a refund in court.  The case is Altria Group Inc. v. United States, 10-02404,
2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (New York).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here. For the
latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  