-- 
Lucian Freud, Whose Portraits Set Auction Records, Dies at 88

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 
2011-07-21T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/lucian-freud-whose-portraits-set-auction-records-dies-at-88.html
Lucian Freud , the British painter of
regular people in all their fleshy glory who stayed loyal to
portraiture and realism even when modern art veered toward the
abstract, has died. He was 88.  Freud died July 20 at his home in London after a brief
illness, said William Acquavella, owner of Acquavella Galleries
in New York, which is Freud’s worldwide dealer. “He lived to
paint and painted until the day he died, far removed from the
noise of the art world,” Acquavella said yesterday in a
statement.  A grandson of Sigmund Freud, the founder of psychoanalysis,
Freud preferred to use friends and family members, including his
mother, as subjects of his portraits, using thick gobs of paint
to reveal the human body’s curves, folds and imperfections. (He
preferred the term “naked” rather than “nude.”) His
paintings were the product of profound observation of human
beings and fastidious self-criticism, and he graduated to larger
and larger canvases starting in the 1980s.  “I paint people not because of what they are like, not
exactly in spite of what they are like, but how they happen to
be,” he said.  Bloomberg News critic Jorg von Uthmann, in a review of a
2010 show at the Centre Pompidou in Paris, called Freud’s work
“unashamedly traditional, stubbornly figurative and realistic
to the point of being brutal.”  Queen’s Portrait  Born in  Germany , Freud moved to the U.K. at 11 and later
became a naturalized citizen. His longtime studio was at a home
in the London neighborhood of Holland Park. In 2000 and 2001,
 Queen Elizabeth II  sat for a portrait that  provided fodder  for
Freud’s fans and critics alike. He painted model  Kate Moss  in
2002, while she was pregnant.  Freud generally needed as much as a year’s worth of regular
sittings to complete a portrait.  In 2008, “ Benefits Supervisor Sleeping ,” his portrait of
a 280-pound civil servant named Sue, sold for $33.6 million
(20.6 million pounds) -- the highest price ever for a work by a
living artist -- in an auction at Christie’s International in
 New York . The purchase, later reported to be by Russian
billionaire  Roman Abramovich , culminated a surge of interest in
Freud’s work.  The 1998 sale in London of his “ Naked Portrait with
Reflection ” for 2.8 million pounds ($4.6 million) set a record
for the most expensive contemporary work sold in  Europe . The
portrait, from 1980, depicts a voluptuous woman reclining on a
sofa in the nude. It was  sold again  in 2008, for 11.8 million
pounds.  ‘Woman Smiling’  Also in 1998, his “Large Interior W11,” which shows two
of his children and three friends in a rundown London interior,
sold for $5.8 million.  His work continued to draw high prices. In February 2010,
at Sotheby’s in  London , a 1978 Freud self-portrait showing him
with a black eye after a fight with a London taxi driver sold
for 2.8 million pounds. At a June 2011 auction at Christie’s in
London, “Woman Smiling,” a 1958-1959 Freud portrait of his
lover, Suzy Boyt, sold for 4.7 million pounds.  Though he lived simply, his artwork made him a wealthy man,
and he had a well-known taste for gambling. The Times of London,
on its 2011 list of the U.K.’s richest, estimated Freud’s net
worth to be 125 million pounds.  The art critic Robert Hughes, writing in Time magazine in
1993, called Freud “the best realist painter alive.”  Ahead of Nazis  “Most of the major stylistic events in art since 1900,
starting with late Cezanne and going on through cubism to
abstraction in its various forms, have had no apparent impact on
Freud’s painting,”  Hughes wrote . “He is a rebuke to
superficial notions of determinism.”  Lucian Michael Freud was born on Dec. 8, 1922, in Berlin,
the second of three sons in a Jewish family. His mother, Lucie,
and his father, Ernst -- an architect who was the second son of
 Sigmund Freud  -- moved the family to London in 1933 as Nazism
was on the rise in Germany.  The first word he uttered, in his mother’s recollection,
was “alleine” -- or “alone, leave me alone.” Solitude would
be the condition he enjoyed most.  His rocky path through British schools included time at
Bryanston, where he made a sandstone carving of a three-legged
horse. That won him a spot at London’s Central School of Arts
and Crafts.  Literary Friends  After serving as a seaman in the British Navy in the North
Atlantic in 1941, at the start of World War II, he concentrated
on his art. His first solo exhibition, in 1944, included “ The
Painter’s Room ,” one of his more famous works.  During those years, Freud mixed with the poets Stephen
Spender and W.H. Auden, George Orwell, and the critic and editor
Cyril Connolly. In the late 1940s, he met  Francis Bacon , who
would remain a close friend until the 1970s. Freud featured in
many Bacon paintings, and Bacon in some, though fewer, of
Freud’s.  Among his many relationships with women, two led to
marriage, and then divorce. In 1948, he married Kitty Garman,
daughter of the sculptor Jacob Epstein, and they had two
daughters. In 1953, he married Lady Caroline Blackwood. He had
multiple children from later relationships, including novelists
Esther Freud, Susie Boyt and Rose Boyt, and fashion designer
Bella Freud.  Other of his progeny dealt with being called the
“Forgotten Freuds,” the  Daily Telegraph  reported in a 2011
profile of Lucy Freud, one of his four children with the artist
Katherine McAdam.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  