-- 
Humala Names Castilla Peru’s Next Finance Minister in Bid to Woo Investors

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y   a n d   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-07-21T21:07:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/humala-will-name-economist-castilla-next-peru-finance-minister-party-says.html
Peru ’s President-elect Ollanta Humala moved to ease investor concerns about how he’ll manage
the Andean nation’s economy by filling his Cabinet with experts
in finance and markets.  Humala named Miguel Castilla finance minister, his Gana
Peru party said in an e-mailed statement. He appointed campaign
manager and businessman Salomon Lerner as Cabinet chief and
Carlos Herrera as energy and mining minister, it said.  Humala, a former army rebel who takes office July 28, is
seeking to reassure investors that his plans to raise mining
royalties and enlarge state control won’t erode economic growth
under departing President  Alan Garcia  that was the fastest in
 Latin America . In addition to Castilla, who served as Garcia’s
deputy finance minister, Humala this week tapped central bank
President Julio Velarde to remain in his post.  Naming Velarde and Castilla is a “magnificent” sign that
Humala has heard investors’ concerns, said Patricia Teullet,
general manager at the Peruvian Exporters’ Association and a
critic of Humala, in an interview.  “It reveals pragmatism and that he’s prioritizing long-
term development over measures designed for effect and with an
ideological face,” Teullet said.  Slowing Expansion  Peru’s $153 billion economy expanded at the slowest pace in
15 months in May as companies cut spending while waiting for
Humala to detail his economic plans. The president-elect, after
running as an ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  in a
failed 2006 presidential bid, changed tack during this year’s
campaign and said he would emulate the pro-business policies of
former Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva .  Humala, in a message posted on his Twitter account today,
asked Peruvians “to have confidence” in his appointments and
that each member of his Cabinet “is committed to change.”  The 42-year-old Castilla has a doctorate in economics from
 Johns Hopkins University  and worked as chief economist at the
Caracas, Venezuela-based Andean  Development Bank , known as CAF,
according to a copy of his resume sent by the  Finance Ministry .
A former consultant to the  World Bank , he wrote a chapter on
Latin America and East Asia trade strategies in a 2008 book
titled “Growth and Development in Emerging Market Economies.”  Former Businessman  Lerner is a former deputy trade minister and businessman
who managed Humala’s campaign while Herrera served as mining
minister under former President Valentin Paniagua.  “Humala understands that these types of appointments are
necessary to tackle the deficit of trust that hangs over him,”
said Alvaro  Vargas Llosa , a senior fellow at the Independent
Institute in  Washington , in response to e-mailed questions.  Louis Maccini, who advised Castilla on his thesis at the
Baltimore-based university, said in a phone interview that his
former pupil “has a way of communicating with people who aren’t
so in tune with economics.”  Since Velarde was reappointed July 17, the yield on the
nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated bond due 2020
has fallen 5 basis points to 6.241 percent today, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. Lima’s General Stock Index has
gained 9 percent.  ‘Perfect Understanding’  Cesar Perez , a managing director at Celfin Capital SA in
Santiago,  Chile , said Castilla has “a perfect understanding of
finance and micro-economic needs” while future mining minister
Herrera “will give comfort to Peru’s key sector, which is the
backbone of the economy.”  While Humala’s appointments are likely to please investors,
they may anger supporters in his Nationalist Party who are
pressuring him to fulfill earlier pledges to rewrite the
constitution, unilaterally boost mining royalties and
renegotiate free trade agreements, said Vargas Llosa.  “If he makes those changes, we will end up badly,” said
Teullet.  Humala narrowly defeated Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori in a
June 5 runoff by pledging to better distribute Peru’s mining
wealth to help the nation’s heavily-indigenous poor, who were
slower to benefit from economic growth that averaged 5.6 percent
a year over the past decade.  Spending Boost  Humala said he plans to boost spending on pensions,
education and child care through a windfall tax on gold and
copper mining companies that won’t make Peru less attractive to
foreign investment. Peru is the world’s third-largest copper and
zinc producer.  “Humala is a pragmatic person who wants to support the
country’s economic growth,” Herrera said in an interview
yesterday. “The government is going to make a big effort to
bring in investment to the  mining industry .”  As much as $42 billion in planned mining investment may be
derailed if Humala changes investment rules, Southern Copper
Corp. Chief Executive Officer Oscar Gonzalez Rocha said June 14.  “This sends a key message to investors,”  Pedro Martinez ,
president of Peru National Society of Mining, Petroleum &
Energy, said today in an e-mailed statement. “Respect for the
contracts and accords that Peru has signed is a good signal.”  Peru’s economy expanded 8.8 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier after growing 9.2 percent in the fourth
quarter.  The country’s next energy and mining minister “will have
to be a great communicator to be able to negotiate changes to
oil and gas contracts,” said Cesar Gutierrez, an energy
consultant and former president of state oil company Petroperu.
“Any negative changes will be taken as general policy and will
discourage future investment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helen Murphy in Lima at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  