-- 
UN Airlift Planned to Get Food to Famine-Hit Southern Somalia

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-07-21T20:22:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/un-airlift-planned-to-get-food-to-famine-hit-southern-somalia.html
The  United Nations  set plans today
to begin airlifting food into famine-stricken southern  Somalia ,
accepting pledges of security from the al-Qaeda-linked Islamic
militia al-Shabaab, which controls the region.  World Food Program Executive Director Josette Sheeran
decided during a trip to Somalia’s war-torn capital Mogadishu to
test the sincerity of al-Shabaab, which has previously denied
access to international aid organizations. The Rome-based UN
agency said the airlift will begin “within days” and aims to
reach as many as 2.2 million Somalis.  The announcement came the day after the UN declared a
famine in two regions of southern Somalia amid drought and
conflict that have left 3.7 million people, almost half the
country’s population, in need of humanitarian assistance. Famine
in the Bakool and Lower Shabelle regions is the worst food-
security crisis in the Horn of Africa nation since 1992, when
300,000 people died, according to Action Against Hunger, a New
York-based humanitarian organization.  “We are testing the ground to see how we can best get
life-saving supplies in as quickly as possible,” Sheeran said
in a statement. “There is a life and death situation here in
Somalia.”  UN Under-Secretary-General Lynn Pascoe, who also visited
Somalia today, said “children are literally dying in the
road.”  Bakool and Lower Shabelle are both controlled by al-
Shabaab, which has been battling to seize power from Somalia’s
Western-backed government since 2007. Somalia has been mired in
a civil war for two decades and hasn’t had a functioning central
government since the 1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.  East African nations including Somalia, Ethiopia and  Kenya 
are experiencing the worst drought in 60 years, leaving 11.3
million people in need of food assistance. The failure of crops
and conflict between al-Shabaab insurgents has forced almost
800,000 refugees to flee Somalia to neighboring countries, a
fifth of them since the beginning of this year, according to the
UN.  A famine is declared when malnutrition rates among children
exceed 30 percent; more than two people per 10,000 die per day;
and people are unable to access food and other basic
necessities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  