-- 
United Continental, US Airways Exceed Estimates as Fares Blunt Fuel Costs

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-07-21T15:18:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/united-continental-profit-beats-estimates-as-higher-fares-blunt-fuel-costs.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and  Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK)  all reported higher
quarterly profits than analysts estimated as fare increases
helped blunt rising fuel costs.  United’s profit excluding certain items was $577 million,
or $1.49 a share, exceeding the $1.43 average estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. US Airways posted earnings of 56 cents a
share, topping a 54-cent estimate, while  Alaska ’s profit of
$2.44 a share beat a $2.43 estimate.  The three carriers all raised fares leading into the peak
summer travel season, partly to compensate for a 47 percent jump
in jet fuel prices from a year earlier. United and others plan
to trim capacity after the U.S. Labor Day holiday in
anticipation of slowing travel.  “Right now, it looks like the summer will be very
strong,” said  Ray Neidl , an analyst at Maxim Group LLC in New
York. “The big question is the later part of the third quarter,
after Labor Day. That’s what is a bit more cloudy right now.”  United’s revenue of $9.8 billion was higher than the $9.7
billion expected by analysts, while  US Airways ’ $3.5 billion in
revenue and Alaska’s $1.11 billion also exceeded estimates.  Kevin Crissey, an analyst at UBS Securities, said today in
a note to clients that additional revenue data he compiles
suggests a “stabilization in demand after shaky bookings for
June travel.”  United’s Results  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines initiated a domestic fare
increase of as much as $20 round-trip yesterday that United,
Alaska and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  seem to be matching,  Rick Seaney 
of ticket research firm FareCompare.com said today in an e-mail.
It’s the 14th attempted fare hike this year, Seaney said.  Only half of the attempted fare increases have stuck, with
six of the previous seven efforts failing when other carriers
failed to match increases, according to FareCompare.com.  United’s results excluded a $107 million increase in
revenue from modifications on a  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  credit-card
agreement and $146 million in merger integration and severance
costs.  Including those items, net income was $538 million, or
$1.39 a share, the Chicago-based carrier said today in a
statement. Combined profit in the year-earlier quarter was $611
million, or $1.57 a share, United said.  “We moved another step closer to achieving our synergy
targets and financial goals,” Zane Rowe, United’s chief
financial officer, said in the statement.  United Airlines parent UAL Corp. and Continental Airlines
Inc. merged in October in an all-stock deal, forming the world’s
largest carrier. The company has promised investors that the
merger will bring about $1.2 billion in savings and new revenue.  Japan  Traffic  United said passenger revenue fell about $100 million in
the second quarter after travel to Japan declined following a
March earthquake and tsunami. The carrier cut capacity to and
from Japan by almost 12 percent.  The company has said it plans to reduce overall capacity by
about 4 percentage points after the peak summer travel season
ends.  US Airways, based in Tempe,  Arizona , said second-quarter
profit excluding certain one-time costs tumbled 60 percent to
$106 million, from $265 million a year earlier. The smallest of
the major full-fare U.S. carriers said higher fuel prices eroded
some benefits from a 10 percent gain in sales, helped by
passenger-traffic increases and higher fares.  Including $14 million in legal costs from a planned swap
with Delta of certain airport flight slots and debt-refinancing
expenses, US Airways’ net income fell to $92 million, or 49
cents.  Alaska Air  Alaska Air’s profit excluding one-time items was $89.6
million, up from $84 million a year ago. Including charges for
changes to its fleet and adjustments in the value of fuel
hedges, the Seattle-based carrier said net income was $28.8
million, a 51 percent drop.  American Airlines parent AMR posted a $286 million loss
yesterday, or 85 cents a share, which was wider than the 81-cent
deficit estimated by analysts. The  Fort Worth , Texas-based
carrier also agreed to buy 460 new more-efficient jets from
Airbus SAS and Boeing Co. in a record order.  United rose 45 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $20.73 at 10:06
a.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. US Airways
slid 8 cents to $6.82, and Alaska rose 90 cents to $66.60.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 