-- 
Turkey’s Upgrade ‘Uncertain’ on Deficit, Fitch Says; Stocks, Lira Plunge

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-07-21T17:56:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/turkey-rating-upgrade-uncertain-due-to-deficit-loan-growth-fitch-says.html
Turkey ’s record current-account
deficit and growth in bank lending are causing “uncertainty”
for  Fitch Ratings  on its outlook for an upgrade.  “Given the scale and trend in the current-account deficit
and bank credit growth, we think that there is still uncertainty
over there and we need to wait and judge the evidence as it
comes in,”  Ed Parker , managing director at Fitch, said in a
phone interview from  London .  The comments sent Turkey’s benchmark ISE National 100
equity index tumbling as much as 3.6 percent, the most in more
than four months in intraday trading, and the main industrials
index to a drop of 5.7 percent, the biggest decline in more than
a year. The equities gauges pared losses as European Union
officials discussed a plan to recapitalize struggling banks,
leaving the general index down 754.50, or 1.2 percent, at
60,882.33. The industrials index closed with a 2.2 percent
retreat.  “We saw hard selling after the Fitch statement,” Isik Okte, a trader at Finans Invest in Istanbul, said in e-mailed
comments. “Both foreign and local investors have no intention
of staying in the Turkish equities market for the long term, so
we had panic selling in a market that has no liquidity and no
depth.”  Bonds reversed earlier losses and rallied on speculation EU
leaders may widen the scope of their rescue plan for  Greece ,
pushing Turkish benchmark yields down 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 8.6 percent, according to a Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc index of two-year debt. The lira weakened 0.4
percent to 1.6691 as of 8:24 p.m. in Istanbul.  ‘Striking’  Bank of America Merrill Lynch and HSBC Holdings Plc said
earlier this year they expected Turkey to reach investment grade
by the end of 2011. Fitch places Turkey one level below
investment grade, while Moody’s Investors Services and  Standard
& Poor’s  rank the country two grades below investment status.  “For an agency that was before talking about an upgrade to
now say that an upgrade is uncertain, is striking,” said Fatih Keresteci, a strategist at HSBC in Istanbul. “This kind of news
is discouraging.”  Turkey’s 12-month current-account deficit climbed to $68.2
billion, or about 9 percent of GDP, in May. Loan growth at an
annual 36 percent is spurring demand for imported goods and raw
materials, and driving growth in the current-account gap. The
 International Monetary Fund  forecasts the gap to reach 10.5
percent of gross domestic product this year.  Current Account  Growth in lending is 11 percentage points above the
official year-end target of 25 percent, based on Banking
Regulation & Supervision Agency figures on July 18.  “If we look at the pace of the GDP growth, the size of the
current-account deficit and the recent pace of bank credit
growth, then there are signs that the economy is growing above
its potential and overheating,” Fitch’s Parker said.  Central Bank Governor Erdem Basci has held rates at record
lows and increased banks’ reserve requirements to rein in credit
growth. The pace of lending has slowed from 40 percent a year
ago.  “It is an unorthodox policy and I think that the results
so far are mixed at best,” Parker said in the interview late
yesterday.  Tourism Revenue  Zafer Caglayan, Turkey’s minister for trade, criticized
Fitch’s comments in a meeting with reporters in Ankara today.  “Aren’t these the same people who gave their highest
rating to Ireland? I think the  ratings agencies  have lost their
esteem and need to try to look to their own reliability,” he
said. “With the effect of tourism revenues over the summer,
we’re going to see an improvement in the current account in the
fourth quarter. I don’t agree with Fitch’s assessment.”  The central bank kept  interest rates  unchanged at 6.25
percent today after inflation slowed in June to 6.2 percent from
7.2 percent in May.  There is no need to raise rates because limits imposed on
bank lending are starting to reduce credit expansion, the
central bank said in a July 5 paper posted on its website. The
deficit is the biggest risk to Turkey’s financial stability,
according to a central bank report in May.  Crisis Coming  Turks should save their money because “dark clouds are
gathering over the global economy,” potentially leading to a
global crisis that will hurt Turkey, said Bulent Gedikli, head
of economic policy for Turkey’s ruling party, Radikal newspaper
reported yesterday.  Shares of Dogan Sirketler Grubu Holding AS, the holding
company with media and energy interests, fell as much as 12
percent, the most since Septemer 2009, before closing down 5.4
percent at 87 kurus. Dogan Yayin Holding AS, the country’s
largest publisher, dropped 7.8 percent, the most since November
2009.  “Fitch’s discouraging comments are not welcomed by market
participants” because the agency was seen as an early mover
toward investment grade,”  Ozgur Altug , chief economist at BGC
Partners, said in a note to clients. Investors “put emphasis on
Fitch, as the agency’s Turkey sovereign rating is just one notch
below investment grade.”  Turkey is more vulnerable to fallout from the EU debt
crisis  compared with other developing nations, according to
Parker at Fitch.  “Turkey having a large current-account deficit, a large
external financing requirement and also the EU being its biggest
trading partner, it would be more vulnerable than some other
emerging markets,” he said. “An increase in global risk
aversion and reduction in global liquidity would have a negative
impact on Turkey.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  