-- 
Turkey Yields Fall to Lowest in 2 Months After Rates Kept Steady

-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y
-- 
2011-07-21T14:16:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/turkey-yields-fall-to-lowest-in-2-months-after-rates-kept-steady.html
Turkish yields fell to the lowest
level in more than two months and the lira declined after the
central bank kept the benchmark rate at a record low of 6.25
percent for the sixth month.  Yields on two-year bonds dropped 15 basis points to 8.60
percent at 5 p.m. in Istanbul, the least since May 10. The lira
fell 0.5 percent to 1.6709 per dollar.  The central bank’s “language was surely even more dovish
than before,”  Yarkin Cebeci , an economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed report after today’s
decision was published. “The announcement supports our view
that Turkish authorities are getting more and more worried about
the likely effect of the European debt problem.”  The central bank is trying to engineer a slowdown from the
11 percent annual economic growth that  Turkey  recorded in the
first quarter and said today that it’s sticking by its policy of
low rates and curbs on bank credit, “given the growing
uncertainty for the global economy.” A further loosening is
possible if “problems in developed economies deepen and
domestic activity halts,” according to the statement.  The central bank, however, may move to stem a recent
decline in the lira at its next rates meeting in August as the
currency fell to two-year lows against the dollar and a record
low against the euro, Cebeci said.  “The central bank is getting uncomfortable with the lira’s
recent underperformance and could hike its overnight borrowing
rate to prevent capital outflows,” he said. “We will not be
surprised if the overnight borrowing rate is raised in the next
meeting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Bentley in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ercan Ersoy at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net  