-- 
Turkish Central Bank Keeps Benchmark Interest Rate Unchanged

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-07-21T15:33:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/turkish-central-bank-keeps-benchmark-interest-rate-unchanged-2-.html
Turkish central bank Governor Erdem Basci left the benchmark interest rate unchanged at a historic
low and signaled he may consider cuts if European debt problems
put a halt to Turkish growth.  The central bank in Ankara kept the benchmark one-week repo
rate at 6.25 percent, according to a statement on its website
today. That matched the forecast of all 12 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. The bank will release minutes of the meeting
within five working days.  Basci is trying to engineer a slowdown from the 11 percent
annual economic growth that  Turkey  recorded in the first quarter
and said today that the bank is sticking by its policy of low
rates and curbs on bank credit, “given the growing uncertainty
for the global economy.” A further loosening is possible if
“problems in developed economies deepen and domestic activity
halts,” according to the statement.  The bank believes there are “no problems at home,” Tatha Ghose, senior emerging-markets economist in London at
Commerzbank AG, said in e-mailed comments. “The ongoing global
soft patch could indeed dent the current-account deficit and
core-inflation trend for a quarter or so, but we think that this
would at best be an interim correction.”  The lira fell after the announcement, extending earlier
losses. The currency dropped as much as 1 percent and declined
0.4 percent to 1.6685 per dollar at 6:32 p.m. in Istanbul.  “The fact they confirmed that the door is open for a
looser monetary policy if the situation deteriorates in the
euro-zone is negative for the lira,” HSBC currency strategist
Murat Toprak in  London  said in e-mailed comments. “We keep our
bearish bias, with the lira moving up to 1.70-75” per dollar.  Reduce Lending  The bank is keeping rates low to weaken the lira and has
increased  reserve requirements  for banks four times since
December to reduce lending and tame a boom in consumer demand
that is drawing in imports and driving the current-account
deficit to record levels.  Those measures, combined with action by the banks regulator
to increase provisions, have “brought domestic demand under
control,” according to today’s statement, in which the central
bank repeated forecasts of an improvement in the current-account
deficit in the last three months of the year.  Industrial output fell in each of the four months through
May, according to the statistics agency. Inflation slowed to 6.2
percent in June from 7.2 percent. The central bank’s target for
the end of the year is 5.5 percent. Yields on two-year lira
bonds have dropped about 40 basis points to 8.8 percent since
the end of June.  Current-Account Gap  The 12-month current-account gap widened to a record $68.2
billion, or about 9 percent of gross domestic product, in the 12
months to May. The deficit is the biggest risk to Turkey’s
financial stability, according to a central bank report in May.  Loan growth slowed to 36 percent as of July 8, from about
40 percent last year, the bank regulator said July 18. The
central bank aims to reduce that to 25 percent by the end of the
year.  Concern that Turkish authorities aren’t doing enough to
narrow the  trade gap  helped push the lira down about 8 percent
against the dollar this year, the most of 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The central bank cut the main rate in December and January,
taking the rate to the lowest since the country began inflation
targeting in 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 