-- 
Hurricane Dora Weakens in Pacific; Cindy, Bret Lose Strength in Atlantic

-- B y   C h a r l o t t e   P o r t e r
-- 
2011-07-22T01:23:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/hurricane-dora-nears-top-strength-off-mexico-as-atlantic-storms-may-weaken.html
Dora, a Category 4 hurricane off
 Mexico ’s Pacific coast with top winds of 140 miles (225
kilometers) per hour, will weaken gradually while tropical
storms Bret and Cindy are forecast to lose strength in the
Atlantic.  Dora eased from an earlier speed of 155 mph and “slow
weakening” is expected tonight, with a more rapid decrease in
winds tomorrow, the  U.S. National Hurricane Center  said in an
advisory at 8 p.m. New York time. The storm is forecast to
remain offshore, the agency said.  The hurricane was about 360 miles south-southeast of Cabo
San Lucas and heading northwest at 9 mph. Hurricane-force winds
extend up to 50 miles from Dora’s core.  High surf will affect the southwestern Mexico coast for the
next few days and start to hit the Baja California Peninsula
later tonight,  the center said . The Mexican government issued
storm watches for the southern peninsula from Agua Blanca to
Buenavista, including  Cabo San Lucas , according to the center.  In the Atlantic, Cindy was about 995 miles west-northwest
of the Azores and moving northeast at 28 mph with top winds at
60 mph, the center said. The storm poses no threat to land and
should start to weaken overnight as it hits colder water, the
 center said .  Bret to Weaken  Bret , with maximum winds of 40 mph, may become a tropical
depression overnight, the center said. The system was 335 miles
east of Cape Hatteras,  North Carolina , moving east-northeast at
10 mph.  An area of showers and thunderstorms 650 miles east of the
Windward Islands has a 10 percent chance of becoming a tropical
depression or tropical storm in the next two days, the center
said in a  weather outlook  at 8 p.m. The system is moving west-
northwest at 15 to 20 mph.  A disturbance becomes tropical when it develops a cyclonic
rotation, becomes a named storm when sustained winds reach 39
mph and attains hurricane status when winds quicken to 74 mph. A
Category 4 hurricane has sustained winds of 131 to 155 mph.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlotte Porter at 
 cporter11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  