-- 
Musharraf Says Bin Laden’s Hideout Unknown to Him, Spy Service

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-07-21T18:38:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/musharraf-says-bin-laden-s-hideout-unknown-to-him-spy-service.html
Pakistan ’s former President Pervez Musharraf said he didn’t know Osama bin Laden was hiding in the
town where U.S. forces killed him in May and doesn’t think the
country’s intelligence service had protected the al-Qaeda
leader.  “I am very sure of one thing -- that I didn’t know,
whether one believes it or not,” said Musharraf, who took power
in a bloodless coup in 1999. He remained Pakistan’s Army chief
of staff until about a year before he was forced to resign as
president in August 2008.  Speculation that the country’s Inter-Services Intelligence
Directorate, a branch of the Army, aided bin Laden doesn’t make
sense and couldn’t have been hidden from him, Musharraf told an
audience today at the  Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars  in  Washington .  “I am from the army. They are my people,” said Musharraf,
who plans to run for president of Pakistan again in 2013. “I
think there was no complicity. There was negligence of the
highest order.”  Musharraf, who lives in  London , has formed a political
party and said he plans to return to Pakistan next year.  The U.S. is scouring evidence seized in the raid on bin
Laden’s compound to determine whether any Pakistani military or
intelligence officers helped protect him for the five years that
he appeared to have lived in the compound in Abbottabad.  “Pakistan today finds itself in the eye of the terrorism
storm,” Musharraf said today.  ‘Blame Games’  Relations between the U.S. and Pakistan are strained in the
aftermath of the Abbottabad raid. “Blame games, rigidity,
arrogance, insensitivity to each other’s national interests is
certainly very counter-productive,” he said.  Rather than casting aspersions on the intelligence service,
the U.S. should help in ferreting out any wayward officers and
acknowledge that they would be the exception, he said.  “While I cannot rule out for sure that there is not one
element who may be sympathetic toward the Taliban, I am very
sure that the general direction of ISI and the military is very
positive,” Musharraf said.  Musharraf blamed the presence of “religious militancy” in
Pakistan on the longstanding conflict with  India  and on the U.S.
decision to abandon the region after the  Soviet Union  withdrew
its forces from  Afghanistan  in 1989.  The U.S. failed to follow up with rehabilitation for the
25,000 to 30,000 fighters that the Americans and Pakistanis
recruited from throughout the Muslim world and nurtured to fight
the Soviets in Afghanistan, he said.  ‘Leadership Vacuum’  He lamented what he called a “leadership vacuum” in
Pakistan’s political circles. He lauded his economic
accomplishments during his eight years in office and cited the
alliance with the U.S. after the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks
on  New York  and the Pentagon.  Musharraf resigned in 2008 amid repeated calls for his
impeachment over his ouster of Supreme Court justices and
imposition of emergency rule.  He said his only regret from his time in office was an
agreement with then-former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto that
she wouldn’t return to the country before presidential
elections. In exchange, the government said it would drop
corruption charges against her and her husband, the current
President Asif Ali Zardari.  Bhutto violated the agreement by coming back to Pakistan
and campaigning for president, Musharraf said. Her assassination
on the campaign trail “led to a total swing against my
political supporters and me,” he said. Zardari took over his
late wife’s campaign after the 2007 assassination.  “I left when Pakistan was on a growth path,” Musharraf
said. “Whatever I did, I need to repeat because Pakistan is
headed again toward a failed or defaulted state.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 