-- 
Vegas Sports Books Sit on NFL Win-Total Bets Until Player Lockout Resolved

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-07-21T13:12:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/vegas-sports-books-sit-on-nfl-win-total-bets-until-player-lockout-resolved.html
Las Vegas bettors looking to wager
on which National Football League team this season might rival
the  Kansas City  Chiefs’ six-win turnaround of 2010 will have to
wait until the sport’s new labor contract is finished.  While sports books in  Nevada  are taking bets on  Super Bowl ,
conference and division winners, they’re not putting up odds on
win totals for each NFL team until players and owners end the
four-month-old lockout and any affect of a new deal on the
league’s 16-game schedule is known.  “For the mainstream public that bets these things like
crazy, it gets confusing if they don’t start the first week on
time or if they move opening week back,” Jimmy Vaccaro,
director of sports operations at  Lucky’s Race and Sports Book  in
Las Vegas, said in a telephone interview. “Even though you
include a disclaimer that they must play all 16 regular-season
games, I don’t think anybody will put up the win totals until
they actually sign the contract.”  The season is set to start Sept. 8. The first preseason
game is Aug. 7.  About $750 million was legally wagered on the NFL in  Las
Vegas  last year, according to RJ Bell, founder and chief
executive officer of handicapping information website
Pregame.com, which is based in the Nevada city.  Las Vegas Sports Consultants , which advises the state’s
sports books on betting lines, won’t release its win-total odds
until a labor contract is in place and teams can complete player
transactions such as free-agent signings, according to senior
oddsmaker Dan O’Brien.  Turnaround Team  Two of the city’s biggest sports books -- at the  Las Vegas
Hilton  and  MGM Mirage  -- are among those also waiting to offer
win-total odds until the lockout is over and free agency gets
under way. The Chiefs won 10 games last season after a 4-12
record during the 2009 NFL season, making winners of bettors who
wagered Kansas City would exceed its over/under estimate of
eight wins.  “Once a settlement is reached, we are going to give free
agency about a week, then get up win totals,” said  Jeff Sherman , the assistant manager at the Hilton’s sports book.  NFL players and owners are working toward approval of a
contract, with management meeting in Atlanta today for a
possible vote. A majority of representatives for the 1,900-
member association needs to approve a deal, which would also
require support from at least 24 of the 32 clubs.  Negotiators tentatively have agreed on terms of a deal that
may last as long as 10 years and would give players about 48
percent of a projected 2011 revenue of $9.3 billion, according
to three people familiar with the negotiations who asked not to
be identified because talks are confidential. An agreement would
clear the way for teams to resume full operations, including the
beginning of training camps and player transactions.  Plenty of Betting  The lockout hasn’t stopped betting on the 2011 NFL season.
The defending champion  Green Bay Packers  and the  New England
Patriots  are listed as 7-1 co-favorites to win the Super Bowl.  “People are betting to win the Super Bowl, the conference
and division because, that’s an automatic no matter how many
games they play,” Vaccaro said. “There’s been a lot of early
prop bets on leading passer, leading rusher. They can’t get
confused because there will be a winner announced whether
there’s one game played or 16.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  