-- 
Vietnam’s Tax Cut Proposal Receives Criticism at Legislature

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-21T11:57:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/vietnam-s-tax-cut-proposal-receives-criticism-at-legislature-1-.html
The Vietnamese  government ’s proposal
to cut a variety of taxes raised questions at the National
Assembly on the effectiveness of the measures in boosting the
economy.  The government is suggesting tax reduction and exemption
measures worth 4.2 trillion dong ($204 million) in 2011 and 2.2
trillion dong in 2012, Finance Minister Vu Van Ninh told the
legislature in Hanoi today. The measures aim to “solve
difficulties of businesses and individuals and help boost
economic development,” he said.  The proposed tax measures, which include a 30 percent
corporate income tax reduction for small and medium enterprises,
may not reach “those in need,” according a report from the
National Assembly’s Finance and Budget Committee, presented by
Phung Quoc Hien, head of the committee.  “The biggest challenge that businesses are currently
facing is lack of capital, difficulty in getting loans and high
lending rates,” Hien said in Hanoi today. The majority of firms
needing government support don’t have any income to benefit from
tax reductions, he said.  The tax proposal includes an individual income tax
exemption for those whose earnings are at the bottom of the tax
ladder. The tax level for those people isn’t “too high” to
begin with, so the amount of tax reduced won’t be significant,
according to the legislature’s committee.  Stock Dividends  The government is also calling for tax exemption on stock
dividends and on gains from stock transfers for the period
starting on Aug. 1 until the end of 2012 to support a slumping
market.  The benchmark VN Index of stocks is down 18 percent in the
past year, the world’s third-worst slide, on concern price gains
will stanch spending, undermine the currency and hurt growth.
The index fell 0.9 percent to 413.06 today.  The Finance and Budget Committee supports the proposed tax
exemption on stock dividends, as that can help encourage
investment. Meanwhile, the suggested tax exemption on stock
transfers should be “carefully considered,” tax should not be
totally exempt and reductions should be allowed only in very
necessary cases, Hien said. Because those activities are for
profit, such tax exemptions won’t be fair to other business
areas, he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bloomberg News at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  