-- 
Vietnam National Assembly May Get More Critical of Government After Start

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-21T01:16:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/vietnam-national-assembly-may-get-more-critical-of-government-after-start.html
Vietnam’s National Assembly  opens
today after a series of actions last year that suggest the top
legislative body is growing more assertive and willing to
criticize the government.  The assembly’s June 2010 rejection of a $56 billion rail
line shows the institution could play a larger role on issues
such as the economy, said Juerg Vontobel, founder of the U.K.-
listed  Vietnam Holding Ltd. (VNH)  fund. Vietnamese inflation is at the
highest level since 2008 and the country’s credit rating was
downgraded last year by  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors
Service and Fitch Ratings.  “The National Assembly was empowered by the fact that they
were able to have an impact on the high-speed rail project,”
Vontobel said in a telephone interview. “If the economy doesn’t
improve, I would expect them to continue to be critical of
economic policies.”  The assembly, which opens with 500 members following May
elections, is scheduled to confirm Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung for a second term after the Communist Party reappointed him
to the governing Politburo in January. The body will then vote
on Dung’s personnel picks, including Nguyen Van Binh, a deputy
governor of the  State Bank  of  Vietnam , to lead the central bank,
according to three people with knowledge of policy makers’
discussions on the matter.  ‘Putting Pressure’  “The Vietnamese National Assembly is the most independent
in any Communist system, either contemporary or historically,”
said Zachary Abuza, a professor at the National War College in
 Washington  who specializes in  Southeast Asia  and has written a
book on Vietnam. “I expect them to continue putting pressure on
government leaders.”  Among the assembly’s lawmakers are 42 deputies who are not
members of the Communist Party. Independent Dang Thanh Tam,
chairman of  Kinh Bac City Development Share Holding Corp. (KBC) , is
one of the country’s wealthiest entrepreneurs.  “It’s true to say that the National Assembly has become a
more vibrant institution, but it is still dominated by members
of the party and is thoroughly establishment,” said Martin
Gainsborough, a professor of development politics at the U.K.’s
University of Bristol and the author of a book on Vietnamese
politics. “It’s not currently developing as an independent
forum that’s going to take on the party.”  The May National Assembly elections were the first since
2007 and came after the Communist Party said it would allow
private business owners into the party in January.  Heated Questioning  Questioning from lawmakers in the assembly became more
heated last year after the near bankruptcy of Vietnam
Shipbuilding Industry Group, or Vinashin. Legislator Nguyen Minh
Thuyet called for a no-confidence vote on Prime Minister Dung,
which was never held.  An increase in the number of full-time members to 33
percent from 29 percent may also result in sharper questioning,
said Edmund Malesky, an associate professor in the Graduate
School of International Relations and Pacific Studies at the
 University of California  in  San Diego .  “Full-time members tend to be more active in query
sessions and in the debates over legislation,” Malesky said.
“If the top leadership is split, the National Assembly becomes
an important forum for serious debate and activity.”  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City . Editors: Patrick
Harrington, John Brinsley  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  