-- 
Vitro’s U.S. Bankruptcy Approved After Bondholder Fight

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-07-22T02:25:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/vitro-s-u-s-bankruptcy-approved-after-bondholder-fight-1-.html
Vitro SAB, the Mexican glassmaker
that defaulted on $1.2 billion in bonds, won approval of a U.S.
bankruptcy petition that will focus the fight over its
restructuring in a Mexican court.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Harlin D. Hale in  Dallas  today
declared the bankruptcy case in  Mexico  the foreign main
proceeding in what he called a “knock down, drag out” legal
dispute, according to a court document. Hale rejected
bondholders’ attempt to block the Chapter 15 petition by arguing
that Vitro’s foreign representative shouldn’t be recognized by
the court.  Vitro defaulted on $1.5 billion of debt, including the $1.2
billion of bonds, in February 2009 after a recession caused
construction and auto-glass sales to plummet. The company also
incurred more than $300 million of derivative losses in bad bets
on natural gas and currency-exchange rates.  Under the company’s debt  settlement proposal , being
considered in a Mexican  bankruptcy court , Vitro is offering $850
million of new bonds and $100 million of debt convertible to
shares in exchange for $1.5 billion of total debt in default. In
a December tender offer, 68 percent of creditors turned down the
proposal.  Intercompany Debt  Bondholders wanted to block U.S. recognition of the Mexican
proceedings because they object to Vitro’s decision to use $1.9
billion of intercompany debt to gain a majority vote for the
restructuring proposal in the Mexican court. Vitro officials
testified in U.S. court that it created the intercompany debt
through a reorganization of units in December 2009, almost a
year after the default.  Vitro, based in Monterrey, has said that Mexican law allows
intercompany debt to be voted in a bankruptcy proceeding. A list
of Vitro creditors compiled by a court-appointed conciliator and
turned over to the Mexican judge in June included the
intercompany loans.  With  bankruptcy protection  in Mexico and now in the U.S.,
“the company will be able to continue the financial
restructuring process even as it’s prepared to face any new
legal action against it,” Alejandro Sanchez, Vitro’s legal
director, said in an e-mail statement.  Although the U.S. court recognized the Mexican bankruptcy
proceeding, it hasn’t ruled yet on implementing or recognizing
the debt restructure proposal, Allan S. Brilliant, the lead
attorney for the bondholders’ group, said in an e-mail
statement.  The bondholders will keep trying to block Vitro from
“using manufactured insider votes to cram down a plan,”
Brilliant said. “We are confident that the court will uphold
the right of the bondholders.”  The case has been contentious, Hale said in his decision.  “Virtually every matter filed by one party is objected to
by the other,” he said.  The Chapter 11 case is In re Vitro Asset Corp., 11-32600,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas). The
Chapter 15 case is In re Vitro SAB, 11-33335, in the same court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 