-- 
Walter Energy CEO Resigning Signals 60% Takeover Gain: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 
2011-07-21T20:16:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/walter-energy-ceo-resigning-signals-60-takeover-gain-real-m-a.html
Walter Energy Inc. (WLT) ’s shareholders,
who lost almost $2 billion in three months on management turmoil
and disappointing earnings, may still be rewarded with a $4
billion windfall if the coal producer is acquired.  Investor Audley Capital Advisors LLP said this week the
southern Appalachia producer of steelmaking coal should explore
a sale following Chief Executive Officer Keith Calder’s
resignation after three months on the job. Walter Energy would
fetch as much as $192 a share, or a 60 percent premium to
yesterday’s close, based on the median earnings multiple paid in
coal deals since 1998, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While the $12 billion price would mark the biggest takeover
of a coal producer, Walter Energy makes twice as much profit per
dollar of sales as the U.S. industry average, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. With metallurgical coal trading near a record
and the Birmingham, Alabama-based company’s shares down 15
percent from an all-time high in April, Walter Energy may lure
buyers from  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  to  Consol Energy Inc. (CNX) ,
according to Raymond James Financial Inc. It may also attract
steelmaker Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA, Davenport & Co. said.  “It’s really an obvious takeout candidate, especially
after their CEO resigned,” said  Eric Green , a Philadelphia-
based  fund manager  at Penn Capital Management, which oversees
$6.5 billion and about 60,000 Walter Energy shares. “It would
be extremely attractive for an international steel or materials
company. There’s huge demand for met coal, and Walter’s is very
high quality.”  ‘Constructive Dialogue’  Michael Monahan, a spokesman for Walter Energy, declined to
comment beyond the company’s July 19 response to Audley Capital.
The coal producer said it welcomes “constructive dialogue”
with all investors, is focused on creating long-term shareholder
value and will still be led by “an experienced senior
management team,” according to the statement.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for London-based Audley Capital,
declined to comment.  Walter Energy, which has operations in Alabama’s  Blue Creek
seam , gained mines in  Canada  when it purchased Vancouver-based
Western Coal Corp. in April for C$5.3 billion ($5.6 billion).  Metallurgical coal, also referred to as coking coal, is
used to forge steel, while the thermal form is used by utilities
to generate electricity. Walter Energy’s coking coal is
considered better quality because it’s purer and has a higher
heat rate, making it desirable for steelmakers, said Timothy Parker, who oversees $8.5 billion in natural-resource stocks at
T. Rowe Price Group Inc., part of the firm’s $509.9 billion
under management globally.  ‘Bee’s Knees’  “It’s excellent coal,” said Baltimore-based Parker, whose
firm owned about 2.3 million shares of Walter Energy at the end
of March. “It’s really essential for steelmaking, so it prices
at a premium, especially because it’s very hard to find. It’s
the bee’s knees.”  Walter Energy was also one of more than 40 companies that
Bloomberg identified in March that met the acquisition criteria
 Warren Buffett  listed in his annual  letter  to shareholders.
Buffett typically prefers “simple” businesses with pretax
profit exceeding $75 million, “consistent” earning power, and
“good” returns on equity while employing little or no debt,
according to his report to  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  shareholders.  While Walter Energy has been a takeover candidate for
“several years,” the company became more vulnerable to a sale
after its CEO said he was stepping down just three months after
he took the position, according to Penn Capital’s Green.  Management Conflict  Calder, whose resignation is effective at the end of this
month, told the board of directors in a letter that he was
leaving due to differing opinions on management philosophy,
according to a June 30 statement from the company. Joseph B. Leonard, the interim chief from March 2010 to March 2011, will
be the interim CEO again.  The company missed analysts’ earnings estimates three
quarters in a row and has faced operational problems at deeper
mines in Alabama. Since reaching a record April 8, the shares
fell 21 percent before Audley Capital’s letter was made public,
wiping out about $1.9 billion in market value, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The stock had gained 7.8 percent since the
investor’s letter was disclosed through yesterday.  Walter Energy rose $5.51, or 4.6 percent, to $125.15 today
in  New York , the highest closing price since May 10.  The company should sell because it “now lacks the strong
leadership needed,” which is “weighing on the share price,”
Audley Capital, which owns 900,000 shares, or about 1.5 percent
of the company, said in a July 17 letter to the board.  ‘Headless Horseman’  Walter Energy could fetch $240 a share in a takeover, based
on the 2012 earnings multiple that  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  and
ArcelorMittal are offering for  Macarthur Coal Ltd. (MCC) , the letter
said. That would be double Walter Energy’s closing price of
$119.64 yesterday.  “Walter has been the headless horseman before, and it’s
about to be the headless horseman again,” T. Rowe’s Parker
said. “It’s not totally shocking that some activists wanted to
shake the tree.”  Coal producers have sold for a median of 7.25 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
since 1998, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Applying
that multiple to analysts’ estimated 2011 Ebitda of $1.66
billion, Walter Energy may draw a bid for its equity of $11.9
billion, or almost $192 a share, Bloomberg data show.  That’s $4.4 billion more than the company’s market value of
$7.5 billion as of yesterday. Such a deal would also top Teck
Resources Ltd.’s almost $8.7 billion acquisition of Fording
Canadian Coal Trust in 2008 as the biggest in the industry.  Record Coal Prices  While J. Christopher Haberlin, an analyst at Davenport,
estimates the company may fetch between $185 and $215 a share,
David Beard, an analyst at Iberia Capital Partners LLC, pegs a
takeover at about $160 a share.  The coal producer’s profit margin of 25 percent in the last
12 months tops 10 of 11 U.S. industry peers with market values
greater than $500 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The group’s average margin was almost 13 percent.  Benchmark prices for steelmaking coal settled at $315 a ton
for the quarterly contract, according to UBS AG, the second-
highest level on record. They slipped 4.5 percent from the all
time high of $330 for the three-month contract that started
April 1.  Prices have surged amid global production disruptions,
including record flooding in Queensland,  Australia , and labor
strikes in the face of robust demand from China and  India .  ‘Time to Sell’  “Now is a good time to sell the company because of the
near-record prices for met coal, strong global demand and
constricted global supply,” said Davenport’s Haberlin, who’s
based in Richmond,  Virginia . “The assets have more value now
than ever.”  Walter has projected that coking coal production will
increase to 20 million metric tons in 2012 from sales of 7.2
million tons in 2010, prior to the Western Coal deal closing.  The company’s production growth, high-quality coal and
rising international demand may attract buyers in the coal
industry, including Consol Energy, a coal and natural-gas
company, and Alpha, the world’s third-largest producer of
steelmaking coal, said Jim Rollyson, an analyst at  Raymond James 
in Houston.  Consol Energy has a market value of $12.3 billion, while
Alpha of Abingdon, Virginia, is valued at $10.2 billion. Lynn
Seay, a spokeswoman for Consol Energy, and  Ted Pile , a spokesman
for Alpha, said the companies don’t comment on speculation.  Rare Coal Quality  The quality of Walter Energy’s coal makes it attractive to
producers of steel, which is used in buildings and cars, said T.
Rowe’s Parker. Brazilian iron and steel manufacturer CSN, as
Siderurgica Nacional is known, is also a potential buyer,
according to Haberlin at Davenport. The company has a market
value of 25 billion real ($16 billion).  Fabio Rocha, a spokesman for CSN, didn’t respond to an e-
mail requesting comment.  While Walter Energy may appeal to a variety of companies,
many firms in the mining industry are already in the midst of
acquisitions or recently completed deals.  Alpha completed the $7.5 billion acquisition last month of
Massey Energy Co., the owner of the mine in West Virginia where
29 workers died in an April 2010 explosion. That may make Alpha
less likely to pursue another deal right now, said Iberia
Capital’s Beard, who’s based in  New Orleans ,  Louisiana .  Steel manufacturer  ArcelorMittal (MT)  of Luxembourg and St.
Louis, Missouri-based coal miner Peabody announced on July 11 a
proposed acquisition of Macarthur that values the Brisbane,
Australia-based coal producer at A$4.7 billion ($5.1 billion).  Walter Energy Bidders  Although the bidders are still trying to persuade
Macarthur, ArcelorMittal, with a $50 billion market
capitalization, or Peabody, at $16.5 billion, may potentially
bid for Walter Energy, said Davenport’s Haberlin, Raymond
James’s Rollyson and Penn Capital’s Green.  Giles Read, a spokesman for ArcelorMittal, declined to
comment. Representatives for Peabody didn’t respond to phone
calls and e-mails requesting comment.  “Clearly the market has worked in their favor in terms of
the strength in pricing of their commodity,” Raymond James’
Rollyson said. “Given the right circumstance, there will
probably be some interest in Walter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 