-- 
Wetjen Nominated to CFTC at ‘Crucial’ Time for Swaps Regulations

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-07-21T15:58:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/wetjen-nominated-to-cftc-at-crucial-time-for-swaps-regulations.html
Mark P. Wetjen, President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to sit on the U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission , said it’s critical that the agency “hews closely”
to the Dodd-Frank Act and avoids “unnecessary” costs on
commercial and manufacturing firms.  Wetjen, a senior policy adviser to Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , made the comments in testimony for his confirmation
hearing today at the Senate Agriculture Committee. Wetjen was
nominated to replace Michael Dunn, a Democrat, on the five-
member CFTC.  “I think the more quickly the commission can act the
better because it is going to provide some certainty to market
participants and I know the market prefers that,” Wetjen told
lawmakers. “But I think more important to them is making sure
the rules are right.”  The CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission  are leading
U.S. efforts to write new rules for the $601 trillion swaps
market after largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008
credit crisis. The CFTC aims to finalize by the end of 2011 most
of the new rules meant to reduce risk and boost transparency.
The rules will govern trades conducted by firms including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and Cargill Inc.  Wetjen’s nomination comes at a “crucial” time for the
agency as commissioners look to make changes to more than 40
proposed rules and complete the regulations, said Senator  Debbie Stabenow , the Michigan Democrat who leads the agriculture panel.
Wetjen has been “parachuted” into the process, Senator Pat Roberts, a Kansas Republican, said at the hearing.  Chamber Support  Wetjen’s nomination is supported by the U.S.  Chamber of
Commerce , which sent a letter on May 19 urging senators to
confirm him to the agency.  “We are confident that Mark will exercise that sort of
probing, and judicious, intellect at the CFTC,” R.  Bruce Josten , executive vice president for government affairs at the
Chamber, said in the letter. The chamber has lobbied to ensure
that commercial and manufacturing “end users” such as
MillerCoors are exempt from having to post margin in derivatives
trades.  Wetjen told lawmakers that it is important for the CFTC to
balance the need for new limits on speculation and the potential
impact on liquidity that those restrictions might create.  “If liquidity dries up there are no swaps markets,”
Wetjen said. The commission must be “careful and deliberative”
as it considers implementing the limits. “I think that those
two objectives can be met,” Wetjen said.  13,000 Comments  The so-called position limits proposal, issued in January,
has been among the most contentious aspects of the agency’s
Dodd-Frank rulemaking. The proposal spurred more than 13,000
comments from supporters such as  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and
opponents such as  Barclays Capital .  Wetjen, 37, was born in Dubuque,  Iowa , and spent weekends
on his family’s farm listening to market reports on the price of
corn, soybean and hogs, according to his prepared testimony.  Before working for Reid, Wetjen worked at the  Lionel Swayer
& Collins  law firm in  Nevada  and represented clients in the
mortgage-finance, gambling and energy industries. He was also a
bartender for five months in 1997 and drove garbage and
recycling trucks in Dubuque for four months in 1996.  He received his bachelor’s degree from  Creighton Universit y
in 1996 and a law degree from the  University of Iowa  in 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  