-- 
Wheat Drops as Importing Nations May Turn to Russia, Ukraine for Supplies

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-07-21T12:41:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/wheat-falls-as-importing-nations-may-turn-to-russia-ukraine-for-supplies.html
Wheat futures fell, erasing earlier
gains, as importers of the grain turn to Russia and Ukraine for
cheaper supplies after the countries raised their export
restrictions earlier this month.  Russia said today it would ship 18 million metric tons of
grain in the year from July 1, up from as much as 17 million
previously forecast. Ukraine may double its grain exports from
last year after drought devastated its crop, the government
said.  Egypt  said it bought 180,000 tons of Russian wheat at a
tender last week and may consider purchasing Ukraine wheat.  “The general vibe in Kiev was that they’re going to have a
decent harvest in terms of volume,” said  Dave Norris , an
independent grain broker in Harrogate,  England , who said Russian
wheat is selling for $40 a ton less than EU wheat. “It seems
like a smart move to me for Egypt to now re-accept Ukraine wheat
their tenders.”  Wheat for September delivery fell 0.5 cent to $6.965 a
bushel by 1:15 p.m. London time on the Chicago Board of Trade.
The price has gained 14 percent this month. Milling wheat for
November delivery on NYSE Liffe in Paris fell 0.1 percent to 199
euros ($281) a ton.  Russia ended an export ban on grains on July 1 after the
worst drought in a half century curbed production last year.  Corn for December delivery fell 5 cents, or 0.7 percent, to
$6.7275 a bushel in  Chicago . The price declined 1.4 percent
yesterday, the biggest loss since July 1. Soybeans for November
delivery were little changed at at $13.86 a bushel in Chicago.  Earlier corn futures gained on speculation that hot weather
in the U.S. Midwest would curb production and
wheat rose on expectations wet weather would delay the harvest
in the European Union, producer of a fifth of the grain in
world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 Jdeane3@bloomberg.net . 