-- 
Willis Group Is Fined $11 Million by U.K.’s FSA Over Suspicious Payments

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-21T11:08:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/willis-is-fined-11-million-by-fsa-over-anti-bribery-corruption-failings.html
Willis Group Holdings Ltd., the
world’s third-largest insurance broker, was fined 6.9 million
pounds ($11 million) by financial regulators for failing to
prevent $227,000 in possible bribes.  The suspicious payments were a portion of 27 million pounds
the company paid “to overseas third parties who assisted it in
winning and retaining business from overseas clients,” between
2005 and 2009, the  Financial Services Authority  said in a
statement today.  Willis is conducting a “past-payment review” and must
report any further findings of corrupt payments to the Serious
Organised Crime Agency, said Sarah Bailey, an FSA spokeswoman.  The  Serious Fraud Office , which prosecutes corruption in
the U.K., didn’t open its own investigation “but we discussed
this case with the FSA early on,” spokesman  David Jones  said.
“Both bodies agreed that the solution was a regulatory approach
and the FSA took it forward.”  Nick Oborne, a spokesman for London-based Willis, declined
to immediately comment on whether the company reported the
payments to the  U.S. Department of Justice , which prosecutes
overseas corruption under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  “The involvement of U.K. financial institutions in corrupt
or potentially corrupt practices overseas undermines the
integrity” of the country’s finance industry, Tracey McDermott,
the FSA’s acting head of enforcement, said in the statement.  Fine Reduction  Willis qualified for a 30 percent reduction in its fine
after cooperating with the FSA, the agency said.  “When we discovered some of our businesses had not got
that right in the past, we were swift to engage with the FSA
towards today’s regulatory resolution,” Brendan McManus, chief
executive of the company’s U.K. unit, said in a statement.  The FSA began a review of anti-bribery systems and controls
at commercial insurance brokerages in late 2008. It fined
insurance broker Aon Ltd. 5.25 million pounds in 2009 for
failing to prevent a number of suspicious payments to overseas
firms and individuals between 2005 and 2007.  The agency said last month it is opening a review into
whether investment banks have systems and controls in place to
prevent their employees from paying bribes to win business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  