-- 
TMX Agrees to Takeover Talks With Maple After LSE Deal Scrapped

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-07-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/tmx-agrees-to-enter-talks-with-maple-group-after-lse-combination-scrapped.html
TMX Group Inc. (X) , the Toronto Stock
Exchange owner that failed to combine with  London Stock Exchange
Group Plc (LSE) , agreed to takeover talks with a group of Canadian
banks and pension funds.  TMX’s board authorized management and advisers to hold
discussions with Maple Group Acquisition Corp. on its
unsolicited C$3.73 billion ($3.95 billion) offer, the Toronto-
based company said yesterday in a statement. The board “is
making no recommendation to shareholders regarding the current
Maple offer and there can be no assurance that any agreement or
recommendation will result.”  The exchange operator changed its mind three weeks after
TMX and LSE scrapped their agreement because they lacked enough
support from shareholders. TMX had stuck with the London
agreement from Feb. 9 even after Maple, whose backers include
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , offered more
money on May 13 and raised its bid on June 22.  “If TMX management can’t come up with an agreeable
proposal with the Maple consortium, they run the risk of
shareholders tendering their shares to Maple regardless,”  Ed Ditmire , an analyst with Macquarie Group Ltd. in  New York , said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “Then, of course, Maple
would control the fate of the company.”  TMX Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Kloet  said June 30, the
day after the LSE deal was terminated, that he would consider
“all opportunities” including Maple’s cash-and-stock bid,
which values the exchange owner at C$50 a share. Maple’s offer
to buy at least 70 percent of TMX shares expires Aug. 8.  Fifth-Biggest Gain  The stock has risen 0.8 percent to C$43.90 since the LSE
agreement was dropped on June 29, and gained 19 percent in 2011,
the fifth-biggest advance among 25 stocks in the Bloomberg World
Exchanges Index.  Maple’s proposal requires approvals from provincial
regulators including those in Quebec and Ontario, as well as
 Canada ’s Competition Bureau.  “Having them on the same team, if they can come to an
agreement, would in my view give them much better chances of
getting those kinds of approvals,” Ditmire said.  Maple said yesterday in an e-mailed statement that it has
signed a confidentiality agreement with TMX, which also owns
Montreal Exchange, a  derivatives market .  “We look forward to engaging in collaborative discussions
with TMX Group,”  Luc Bertrand , a Maple spokesman, said in the
statement. “While there can be no assurance that these
discussions will ultimately lead to a TMX Group Board supported
transaction, the signing of this agreement and the commencement
of discussions is a positive step.”  Alpha, CDS  Maple’s 13 members also include the Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board. In addition to buying TMX, Maple wants to
purchase Alpha Group, a bank-owned trading platform that
competes with the bourse, and clearing house CDS Inc. Alpha has
captured about 19 percent of Canadian equities trading.  While TMX and Maple’s agreement to start talks could
increase the odds of a deal, it may also bring changes to the
proposed transaction, Ditmire said.  “You have to be open to the idea that that deal might be
different than what the Maple proposal currently is,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  