-- 
Yuan Hits 17-Year High on Record Reference Rate, Growth Outlook

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-07-21T09:30:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/yuan-hits-17-year-high-on-record-reference-rate-growth-outlook.html
China ’s yuan rose to a 17-year high
after the central bank set the strongest  reference rate  since a
dollar peg was scrapped exactly six years ago, allowing gains to
help tame inflation.  The currency is allowed to trade up to 0.5 percent on
either side of the People’s Bank of China’s daily fixing, which
was set 0.09 percent higher at 6.4536 per dollar. A leading
indicator of China’s economic prospects climbed for a third
month in May, The Conference Board said on its website yesterday,
citing a preliminary reading. Consumer prices climbed 6.4
percent in June, the most in three years, official figures show.  “China has seen the usefulness of a stronger currency with
higher commodity prices in the past six years,” said  David Cohen , a Singapore-based economist at Action Economics. “The
trajectory of gradual appreciation of the yuan will continue as
global demand for Chinese goods and its domestic demand are
still strong.” He forecasts the currency will reach 6.3 per
dollar by the end of this year.  The yuan rose 0.12 percent to close at 6.4516 per dollar in
 Shanghai , the biggest advance in a week, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System. The currency reached 6.4505
earlier, the strongest level since China unified official and
market exchange rates at the end of 1993. In Hong Kong’s
offshore market, the yuan appreciated 0.02 percent to 6.4545.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards were little changed
at 6.3920 per dollar as of 5:30 p.m. in Hong Kong, trading at a
0.9 percent premium to the onshore spot rate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  IMF View  The  International Monetary Fund  said China should let the
yuan gain to boost demand and global economic stability, citing
the risk that any growth shocks in the country will hurt the
world, the fund said in a statement released late yesterday in
 Washington . The currency remains undervalued by 3 percent to 23
percent, depending on methodology, and fell against the
currencies of trading partners in the past year in inflation-
adjusted terms, the organization’s economists said.  The statement marks a shift from last year, when directors
of the 187-nation fund split over the staff view that the yuan
was undervalued. In the latest report, the organization’s
economists found that the currency “remains substantially below
the level consistent with medium-term fundamentals” and added
that, on one measure, it had depreciated over the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  