-- 
Zapatero Says Agreement Should Help Ease Spain’s Financing Costs

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-07-21T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-21/zapatero-says-agreement-should-help-ease-spain-s-financing-costs.html
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said that the agreement between euro-area
leaders should help ease his nation’s financing costs as it
fights contagion from the debt crisis afflicting the region.  “The response given today by the euro zone leaders’ summit
should generate confidence and stability in the markets,”
Zapatero told reporters late yesterday after a summit in
Brussels. “It should help reduce the excessive percentage which
was requested of some countries to finance themselves and bring
it back to more normal levels, hence facilitating the
fulfillment of the commitments we still have ahead.”  Before the summit,  Spain  opposed moves led by  Germany  to
get investors to share the burden of any further bailout of
 Greece  because it might stoke doubts about other countries’
abilities to pay back debt. Zapatero’s minority Socialist
government is battling to convince investors Spain can stem the
euro area’s third-largest deficit and avoid following Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal  in seeking an international rescue.  “This was a decisive summit,” Zapatero said. “We reached
a good, strong, concrete and precise accord, which will transmit
confidence and credibility.”  Spanish, Greek and Italian 10-year bonds jumped late
yesterday as details of the summit agreement emerged.
Spanish 10-year bonds rose for a third day, lowering yields 25
basis points to 5.73 percent as of 4:59 p.m. in  London . That
reduced the spread, or yield difference, over benchmark German
bunds to 285 basis points.  Bank Involvement  Zapatero said that Spain doesn’t need any European help for
its banks. He said that the region has given itself “strong
weapons” to solve problems and that the terms of the agreement
on the participation of banks in the Greek bailout “are clear,
precise and convincing, as I had requested it.”  While the element of private sector participation is
relevant, the summit’s most notable achievement is that it has
strengthened European capacity to act, he said.  Zapatero said that the summit has shown  Europe ’s ability to
provide adequate responses to individual countries’ problems,
even as he agreed with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  that the
region’s governance needs to be improved. Direct European
intervention to buy bonds on the second market was still totally
out of the question till recently, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  