-- AbbVie Beats Estimates as Sales of Humira Continues Climb
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-07-26T20:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/abbvie-beats-estimates-as-sales-of-humira-continues-climb.html
AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) , the drugmaker carved
out of  Abbott (ABT)  Laboratories at the start of the year, reported
profit that beat analysts’ estimates and raised its 2013
forecast after sales of top medicine Humira gained on price
increases and new indications.  Earnings, excluding one-time items, of 82 cents a share
topped by 3 cents the average of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Full-year profit is expected to be $3.07 to $3.13
a share, the  Abbott Park , Illinois-based company said in a
statement today. Its previous outlook was for profit of at least
$3.03 a share.  “Our first-half performance, including better-than-expected sales growth, has allowed us to increase our earnings-per share guidance for the year,” Richard Gonzalez, AbbVie’s
chief executive officer, said in the statement.  Humira sales increased 12 percent to $2.61 billion. The
rheumatoid arthritis drug is the backbone of the company.
AbbVie’s roster of experimental medicines, though, may not be
getting enough credit, said  Jami Rubin , an analyst with Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. who has a buy rating on the stock. “We think
the under-appreciated pipeline may lead to a valuation re-rate,” she said in a July 11 note to clients.  Shares Rise  AbbVie was created when Abbott split in half, leaving
AbbVie with the brand drugs and Abbott with the medical devices,
diagnostics, nutrition and generics lines. AbbVie shares have
gained 31 percent since the separation on Jan. 1, compared with
a 24 percent increase for the 24-member Bloomberg Americas
Pharmaceutical Index. The stock rose 1.2 percent to $44.79 at
the close in New York.  AbbVie is reorienting the company’s focus on new drug
lines, shifting away from primary care medicines into specialty
treatments for immune, cancer and viral conditions.  The drugmaker’s most-promising experimental products are in
hepatitis C, a viral liver disease, and cancer. The hepatitis C
treatment is a combination of pills that if approved probably
will compete with  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s experimental therapy.
The new products don’t rely on shots of interferon, which come
with flu-like side effects.  “It’s a very tight race, but we’re feeling very, very good
about our position,” Scott Brun, AbbVie’s head of research and
development, said today on a conference call.  Pent-Up Demand  The company will be pouring resources into the debut of the
hepatitis C drug, Gonzalez said.  “There will be a fair amount
of pent-up demand, so we’re building up all the assets we need
to have an aggressive launch,” Gonzalez said on the call.  The hepatitis C combination treatment “has been
overlooked,” Rubin said. Investors are also closely watching
ABT-199, a cancer medicine being studied in leukemia and
lymphoma, may be on the market in 2016, according to the
company.  AbbVie’s under-appreciated pipeline is part of a trend
across the industry, where after several years of losing drugs
to patent expiries new therapies in development will begin to
pay off, said  Timothy Anderson , an analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co.  “There are some signs that new drug pipelines may be
slowly improving which is perhaps the most important trend to
watch,” he said in a July 15 note to clients. “By the end of
2013, the financial impact from biggest bolus of patent
expirations will have lapsed. Coupled with the fact that the
industry continues to ‘right-size’ itself, the majority of our
companies seem capable of returning to some modest level of
longer-term growth.”  Earnings Results  Profit from continuing operations rose 2.2 percent to $1.45
billion, or 66 cents a share, from $1.42 billion, or 80 cents, a
year earlier, the company said. Net income declined 16 percent
to $1.07 billion, while revenue gained 4.4 percent to $4.69
billion.  Success with those products would diversify the company’s
sales beyond Humira, which made up 50 percent of revenue last
year. AbbVie has also sought new uses for Humira with new
indications in the U.S. for other immune system and inflammatory
diseases, including psoriasis and ulcerative colitis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  