-- Lafarge Lines Up More Assets for Disposal as Profit Declines
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-07-26T05:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/lafarge-lines-up-more-assets-for-disposal-as-profit-declines.html
Lafarge SA (LG) , the world’s biggest
cement maker, said it will sell more assets to cut debt after a
deterioration in European demand and poor weather for
construction work cut second-quarter profit.  The French company is looking for additional proceeds to
bring borrowings down to below 10 billion euros ($14 billion)
this year, and then to 9 billion euros in 2014, to regain an
investment grade “as soon as possible,” it said.  Weakened construction industries in Europe is putting the
emphasis on self-help measures. Chief Executive Officer Bruno Lafont is cutting jobs and procurement costs and pushing sales
of higher-margin services and products. Earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization fell 8 percent
from a year earlier to 922 million euros, short of the 937
million euros that analysts estimated, on average.  “Our results in the second quarter resisted in an
environment which was marked by a conjunction of unfavourable
circustances,” Lafont said.  As well as a European slump, Lafarge had to contend with a
prolonged winter in its home region, political turmoil in the
Middle East and a temporary fuel shortage in  Egypt . Asset sales
are part of the CEO’s drive to repair a  credit rating  that has
fallen one level below investment grade.  Net income quintupled to 201 million euros in the quarter,
compared to an average estimate of 230 million euros.  Lafarge’s  debt  shrank by 5 percent at the end of second
quarter from a year earlier to 11.9 billion euros. It has
secured 1.5 billion euros of asset sales since the start of
2012, of which 900 million euros will be received in the second
half, it said.  In January, Lafarge announced the sale of aggregates
quarries in the U.S. for $160 million, and merged some U.K.
assets with  Anglo American (AAL) ’s Tarmac unit. Lafarge also agreed to
sell a cement plant in  Ukraine  to  CRH Plc (CRH)  for 96 million euros,
raise 200 million euros in May through a capital increase at its
India unit as well as divesting its North American gypsum unit
for $700 million to Lone Star Funds in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  