-- Aflac Wins Wider Access to Japan Post’s Insurance Sales Network
-- B y   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2013-07-26T07:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/aflac-wins-wider-access-to-japan-post-s-insurance-sales-network.html
Japan Post  Holdings Co., the
country’s biggest holder of  bank deposits , will start selling
more insurance products by  Aflac Inc. (AFL) , the largest provider of
supplemental health insurance.  Japan Post, which began offering Aflac’s cancer insurance
products in October 2008, will sell the policies in as many as
20,000 post offices from the current 1,000, the U.S. insurer
said in a statement through the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The two
companies will also co-develop insurance products, according to
the statement.  The alliance comes amid Aflac’s effort to expand in Japan,
its largest market, and discussions on the Trans Pacific
Partnership regional trade deal. The U.S. has requested that
Japan Post’s insurance subsidiary compete fairly with private
companies.  Japan  Post Insurance, locally known as Kampo and a unit of
Japan Post Holdings, will enter into a contract with Aflac to
begin distributing cancer insurance products at all of its 79
sales offices, according to the statement.  “This isn’t a bad deal for the Japanese government and
Japan Post,” Nobuyasu Uemura, managing director, at Capitas
Consulting, a Tokyo-based consulting firm, said. “This allows
Japan to show its willingness to be open to discussions ahead of
the TPP talks. It could lead to Japan Post selling different
products to widen its offerings.”  Japan earlier this year reached a deal with the U.S. on
bilateral trade issues that clears the way for the world’s
third-largest economy to join talks for the TPP trade agreement
as soon as this month.  Japan Post President Taizo Nishimuro earlier this week said
the company, which is also the largest holder of Japan’s debt,
plans to sell shares through an initial public offering by April
2015, six months earlier than it had targeted. The offering may
exceed 4 trillion yen, the previous administration’s Postal
Reform Minister Mikio Shimoji said in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  