-- Agriculture Chief Predicts Resumption of Japan Wheat Buys
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 2013-07-26T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/agriculture-chief-predicts-resumption-of-japan-wheat-buys.html
Japan, which stopped buying some
U.S. wheat after a genetically modified variety was discovered
in an Oregon field, may resume purchases as soon as next month,
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said.  “We’ve come a long way in terms of the Ministry of
Agriculture in Japan to reassure them,” Vilsack said yesterday
in an interview with  Peter Cook  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Capitol Gains” to air July 28. “I think that hopefully
they’re getting their questions answered and that sometime,
perhaps as early as August, we would see a resumption.”  Monsanto Co. (MON) , which developed the wheat, and the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  are investigating how a gene-altered
plant that hasn’t been approved for commercial use was found on
an Oregon farm eight years after nationwide field tests ended.
After the USDA’s May 29 announcement, Japan,  South Korea  and
Taiwan suspended some U.S. wheat purchases.  South Korea and Taiwan have since resumed buying, and
Japanese officials visited the U.S. last week to discuss new
sales. Monsanto, the world’s largest seed company, reported
$13.5 billion in 2012  sales , led by corn and other crops
genetically engineered to tolerate Roundup, the world’s best-selling herbicide. Corn  accounted  for 43 percent of last year’s
sales.  The experimental wheat, designed to survive the weedkiller,
may have gotten into an Oregon field by an “accidental or
purposeful” act, Chief Technology Officer Robb Fraley said last
month.  Contamination Limits  Vilsack declined to comment on possible causes of the
contamination.  “I think it’s better that we let the investigation run its
course and find out at the end of that process what we know,”
he said. “We’re very sure it doesn’t pose a safety threat to
the  food supply .”  Separately, Vilsack urged Congress to pass an agriculture
bill that includes  food stamps  as well as farm aid before
provisions of the current law begin to expire Sept. 30.  The Senate last month passed a plan with both elements at a
cost of more than $95 billion a year. The  House of
Representatives  this month approved a package without nutrition
aid to poor families. Without farm and food aid together, farm-policy legislation is unlikely to win support needed to pass
both houses of Congress.  “By having the food assistance programs in the bill, you
basically have a good message point to suburban and urban
legislators who may not fully understand what agriculture
contributes to their constituents,” Vilsack said. “You’re
going to get that coalition of members in Congress to be able to
pass a bill.’  To contact the reporter on this story: Alan Bjerga in Washington
at   abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ; 