-- Thai Baht, Bonds Fall This Week as Bill Sparks Political Concern
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-07-26T08:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/thai-baht-bonds-fall-this-week-as-bill-sparks-political-concern.html
Thailand ’s baht,  government bonds 
and stocks dropped this week on concern the ruling coalition’s
plan to push forward an amnesty bill for political protesters
will trigger renewed tension.  The benchmark  SET Index (SET)  of shares fell by the most in six
weeks yesterday and slumped 1.8 percent from July 19 after the
leader of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s Pheu Thai Party
said late July 24 that a bill to pardon all wrongdoings in past
political demonstrations will be tabled in August, according to
the party’s website. Exports fell 3.4 percent in June from a
year earlier, following a 5.3 percent decline in May, official
data showed today, amid concern an economic slowdown in  China 
will hurt overseas sales.  “While sentiment is not so strong, any concern with regard
to the political situation hurts the baht and Thai assets,”
said Tohru Nishihama, an economist covering  emerging markets  at
Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in Tokyo. “China slowdown
concern is lingering and from the export perspective, it’s
negative for the region.”  The baht fell 0.2 percent this week to 31.1 per dollar as
of 3:33 p.m. in Bangkok and touched a one-week low of 31.17
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was
unchanged today after declining 0.5 percent yesterday. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange
rate  used to price options, dropped 34 basis points this week to
6.38 percent.  New Bill  The proposed bill would pardon those involved in
demonstrations, mainly supporters of the current government,
after former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra  was toppled in a
2006 coup. Thaksin is Yingluck’s brother. The bill is negative
for stocks and could lead to another round of demonstrations,
according to a DBS Vickers research note released yesterday.  The drop in exports compared with the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey for a 1.6 percent increase.  A Purchasing Managers Index from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics this week showed a preliminary reading for
Chinese factory output of 47.7 in July, compared with a forecast
for 48.2. China took 11 percent of Thai exports in the first
half of 2013 and shipments to Asia’s largest economy slumped 17
percent in June, official data show.  The yield on the 3.625 percent bonds due June 2023
increased 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, this week
to 3.87 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
rate, which was steady today, was the highest since June 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  