-- Air France-KLM Sees 2013 Profit on Cost Cuts and Traffic
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-07-26T11:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/air-france-klm-sees-2013-profit-on-cost-cuts-and-traffic.html
Air France-KLM Group (AF)  expects to make
an operating profit this year after higher passenger numbers,
lower fuel expenses and a cost-savings plan boosted second-quarter earnings at Europe’s biggest airline.  Operating profit of 79 million euros ($105 million) fell
short of the 89-million-euro  estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of
analysts, and compared with a loss of 79 million euros a year
earlier. Air France said it sees improvement in the second half
“in line with that of the first half.” From that, one can
infer a profit this year, said Chief Financial Officer Philippe Calavia, without being more specific. The company made a loss of
300 million euros in 2012.  “We’re on the right track,” Chief Executive Officer
Alexandre de Juniac said at a briefing in Paris today. “The
improvement in our results is in large part the result of our
implementing the savings plan.”  Juniac took the helm this month after running the Air
France unit for a year and a half. He’s designed a cost- and
job-cuts plan to improve profits amid southern  Europe ’s economic
slump and rising competition from low-cost carriers in Europe
and Middle Eastern airlines overseas. He pledged to improve
performance at the Paris-based carrier’s short- and medium-haul
network and cargo business with measures next year.  The shares rose as much as 4.2 percent in Paris, the
biggest intraday increase in a month, and were trading up 1.9
percent to 6.48 euros at 1:36 p.m. local time.  Progress Challenging  Juniac cautioned that the economic environment is still
more difficult than previously anticipated, with fuel prices at
record highs, making progress challenging. Average ticket
prices, or yield, should “rise slightly” in the second half
after declining by 0.1 percent in the first half, he said.  Average ticket fares, a measure of how the airline juggles
supply and demand to win the best pricing, remains a key concern
for investors. Revenue per available seat kilometer was down 1.3
percent in the second quarter after rising 1.3 percent in the
first quarter, James Hollins, an analyst at Investec said in a
note to clients.  “The results reflect the continued woes in its business in
driving yields,” Hollins wrote, referring to average ticket
prices. He recommends clients sell the stock.  Strict Discipline  Second-quarter sales rose 1.2 percent to 6.58 billion
euros, Air  France  said, while net debt fell to 5.3 billion euros
at the end of the period from 5.97 billion euros in December.  While progress on the Transform 2015 cost-savings program
is on schedule, the company plans “additional major measures”
from 2014 to address lagging performance in medium-haul
passenger operations as well as in cargo, Juniac said. Those
will be announced in the autumn.  “Short- and medium-haul operations are not a lost cause,”
Juniac said, pointing to improvements KLM had made in its
European network. Air France has already sought to lower costs
with the introduction of Hop!, a low-cost, point-to-point
operation. The savings plans will improve use of the capacities
of low-cost subsidiary Transavia in France, Air France CEO
Frederic Gagey said today.  Commercial Links  Air France owns 25 percent of  Alitalia  and has commercial
links with the Italian carrier through their common presence in
the SkyTeam alliance.  The french carrier will wait until year-end to assess the
progress Alitalia makes on its new, three-year business plan
before deciding whether to change its shareholding, Calavia said
on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown.” A sale of the CityJet
regional airline is “close” to conclusion, he said.  Air France’s shares have underperformed competitors’ this
year as it had resisted providing a full-year outlook until
today. The stock has declined 7.3 percent in the year to date,
giving the carrier a market value of 1.95 billion euros.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG has gained 9.7 percent this year,
valuing Europe’s second-biggest carrier at about 7.2 billion
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  