-- Taiwan’s Ma Seeks to Restore Relations With Philippines Soon
-- B y   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2013-07-26T08:10:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/taiwan-s-ma-seeks-to-restore-relations-with-philippines-soon.html
Taiwan ’s president Ma Ying-jeou
indicated a thawing in a dispute with the  Philippines  over the
shooting death of a Taiwanese fisherman in May, saying he hoped
warmer ties would resume quickly.  “We are eager to restore relations as soon as possible,
because, prior to this event, relations were quite friendly,”
Ma said in an interview with Bloomberg News in Taipei yesterday.  Taiwan in May held military exercises off its southern
coast to protest the killing of the fisherman by the crew of a
Philippine coast guard vessel in disputed waters.  The shooting and the disagreement over its circumstances
have soured ties. Ma recalled his representative from the
Philippines and froze the hiring of workers from the Southeast
Asian country on May 15, rejecting Philippine President Benigno Aquino’s apology over the fisherman’s death. Taiwanese employers
haven’t renewed contracts for about 10,000 Filipinos, the  Manila 
Economic and Cultural Office said July 9.  Taipei and Manila had carried out parallel and cooperative
investigations into the incident, Ma said, with  Taiwan (TWGDCONY) ’s report
completed more than a month ago.  “We are now looking for a response from the Philippines so
that both sides can release their investigation results, which
will move us even closer,” Ma said. “We hope the process will
not be a long one.”  Four Demands  Aquino is reviewing a report prepared by the National
Bureau of Investigation, Justice Secretary Leila de Lima said
last month. Taiwan hasn’t decided when it will release its
report, Deputy Justice Minister Chen Ming-tang said today.  “It’s in Ma’s best interest to bring this to a close so
Taiwan can pursue fishery talks with the Philippines,” Song
Yann-huei, a research fellow at Taipei-based Academia Sinica,
said by phone today. “They would like to resolve this so they
can move on to issues requiring more imminent attention.”  The investigation was one of four demands made by Ma’s
administration after the May 9 confrontation. Others included a
formal apology, compensation and punishment of the perpetrators.
Ma said the Philippines is negotiating with the victim’s family.
“We hope for agreement to be reached there quickly,” he said.  Taiwan and the Philippines last month agreed on a mechanism
for law-enforcement operations at sea, including no use of
force, mutual notification of any arrests and the release of
detained fishermen and boats. The two sides are discussing plans
for a second meeting, Anna Kao, a spokeswoman at Taiwan’s
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said by phone today.  Taiwan’s goal is to sign an agreement with the Philippines
similar to the accord it reached with  Japan  on April 10, which
gives fishermen access to Japanese-administered waters near
islands also claimed by  China , Ma said.  “Neither side changed its stance on sovereignty, but
rather agreed to set the issue aside,” he said.  Taiwan, China, and Japan all claim sovereignty over islands
in the East China Sea known as Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in
Japanese.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  