-- Ana Says It Found Damaged Wire in Boeing 787 Beacon
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r ,   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-07-27T12:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/ana-says-it-found-damaged-wire-in-boeing-787-beacon.html
United Airlines  found a pinched wire
in an emergency beacon on one of its  Boeing Co. (BA)  787s, making it
at least the second carrier to discover such a fault in the
component linked to this month’s fire in a parked Dreamliner.  The emergency locator transmitter was replaced and returned
to manufacturer  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  for evaluation,
Christen David, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based United, said in
an e-mail.  ANA Holdings Inc. (9202)  said earlier that it discovered a
damaged wire on a 787 flown in Japan.  The airlines’ discoveries may intensify the focus of
investigators trying to determine whether two wires smashed
under a cover on the ELT caused a short-circuit that triggered
the blaze on an Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise 787 at  London ’s
Heathrow airport, according to a person familiar with the probe.  ANA also found a dented wire in a separate portable beacon
and is sending the equipment to Honeywell for checks, Megumi Tezuka, an airline spokeswoman, said yesterday by telephone in
 Tokyo . The carrier has removed all beacons from the eight 787s
it uses on domestic routes, she said.  Japan ’s largest airline is continuing normal operations of
its 12 Dreamliners flying on international routes after
completing checks on their beacons, which are used to help
rescuers locate an aircraft in the event of a crash.  Renewed Concern  The fire in the Ethiopian Airlines’ transmitter, which runs
off a lithium battery, renewed concern that the 787 was at risk
from electrical faults after two meltdowns in a different type
of lithium battery in January. Those incidents, involving
batteries that are part of the plane’s power system, spurred a
three-month grounding of the global Dreamliner fleet to fix the
flaw.  Qatar Airways Ltd. said on Saturday that one of its 787
aircraft has been grounded since Monday because of a “minor”
technical problem. A spokeswoman for the Doha-based carrier, who
asked not to be named as per company policy, said the issue was
not a fire and was discovered when the plane was on the ground.
She declined to give further details.  Separately,  Norwegian Air Shuttle AS (NAS)  followed Boeing
instructions on transmitter removal after getting approval from
its civil aviation authority, the Oslo-based carrier said in an
e-mailed statement.  Boeing 787 operators must check the jets’ emergency locator
transmitters made by Honeywell, the European Aviation Safety
Agency said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Airlines must “either remove or inspect the Honeywell ELT,
and take corrective actions if necessary,” the region’s safety
regulator said, following its U.S. counterpart after the July 12
fire in London.  FAA Inspection  The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  ordered on July 25
that the Dreamliners’ ELTs be inspected and said it may take
steps affecting thousands of identical beacons on other models.
Japan’s Civil Aviation Bureau said yesterday that it was asking
airlines to check the beacons.  Honeywell supports the FAA action “and will continue to
collaborate on the investigation into the source of the
Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 787 fire,” Steve Brecken, a
spokesman, said by e-mail.  United, a unit of  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,
completed inspections on the rest of its Dreamliners without
interrupting schedules, and is in compliance with the
airworthiness directive issued by the FAA, David said.  Japan Airlines Co. (9201) , the nation’s other operator of 787s,
said earlier this week that it had completed checks of beacons
and was flying its fleet of nine planes as usual after
confirming their safety.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  