-- Managing Yankees as She Liked It Put Afterman in Baseball’s Trio
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-07-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/managing-yankees-as-she-liked-it-put-afterman-in-baseball-s-trio.html
Long before she encountered  George Steinbrenner  across a negotiating table, Jean Afterman was
performing Shakespeare to hone the skills that would earn her
the respect of the  New York Yankees ’ owner and lead her to a job
in a Major League Baseball front office.  Afterman, one of only three women to ever hold the position
of assistant general manager for an MLB team, was a lawyer and
player agent before joining the Yankees in 2001. Her first
career was as an actress, and she says that helped her break
into the normally all-male bastion.  “A part of any negotiation is acting, you have to act
outraged or you have to pretend like they got the better of
you,” Afterman said in a dugout interview before a Yankees game
in Oakland, California. “And negotiating with George
Steinbrenner was one of the highlights of my theatrical
career.”  Afterman, 56, who was a character actress with a preference
for Shakespearean comedies and Cole Porter musicals, has found
herself part of a drama this season with the Yankees.  The team has lost more than half its starting lineup to
injuries for most of the season; about 4,000 fewer people than
last year are attending games at Yankee Stadium as the club has
sunk to fourth place in the five-team American League East, and
its highest-paid player,  Alex Rodriguez , has been under a drug-suspicion cloud while recovering from hip surgery.  Steinbrenner, the former Yankees owner who died in 2010,
and General Manager  Brian Cashman  were so impressed with the
negotiating skills of Afterman that they hired her to focus on
contracts and compliance for the 27-time  World Series  champions.  Third Woman  Afterman got the job when Kim Ng left to take a similar
post with the  Los Angeles Dodgers . Elaine Steward is the third
woman to have been an MLB assistant general manager, holding
that post for the  Boston Red Sox  from 1990 until being promoted
to vice president and club counsel in 2002.  Ng, 44, was assistant general manager of the Yankees from
1998-2001 and of the Dodgers until 2011 before becoming MLB’s
senior vice president of baseball operations.  Baseball has never had a woman general manager. Susan
Nierenberg, vice president of global marketing and corporate
communications for Catalyst Inc., said she would welcome more
women getting upper management positions with sports teams. New
York-based Catalyst is a research group that promotes workplace
diversity.  “Leadership is leadership –- it’s not gendered -– and
reflects the marketplace and key stakeholders,” Nierenberg said
in an e-mail message. “As in many other industries, we look to
the day where a women general manager in sports is not the first
or even the second, but the new norm.”  Both Afterman and Cashman said they don’t think gender has
been a factor in Afterman’s career. Though Cashman called her
“a very powerful woman in a baseball world of men,” he said in
a telephone interview that her legal background has had much
more of an impact.  No Sexism  Afterman said there hasn’t been a female general manager
mostly because of numbers.  “I don’t think it is sexism,” she said. “There are only
30 of those jobs available and they rarely come up.”  She said she doesn’t want to be the first woman to become a
general manager -- who typically has the final say on player
personnel. Instead, she’d prefer to follow the path of Pam
Gardner, who was president of the Houston Astros for 11 years
until she resigned in 2012.  “I think my comfort zone is more in the business and legal
side of our industry, and I think that today’s general manager
is much more someone who is comfortable in the player evaluation
side of it,” she said. “When I came to the Yankees, Brian told
me straight off he didn’t want a talent evaluator, he had more
than enough scouts, and he said he needed somebody who would be
his compliance officer.”  Perfect Partner  To Cashman, 46, who has been general manager of the Yankees
since 1998, Afterman provides the perfect partner.  “She makes sure everything I do is accurate and complete,
and makes sure I see roadblocks before they occur,” he said.
“The last thing we need as we put a club together is to step in
potholes.”  There have been plenty of injury-related potholes this
season for the Yankees, who have a value estimated by Forbes at
$2.3 billion, fourth highest in world sports behind European
soccer clubs Real Madrid,  Manchester United (MANU)  and Barcelona.  The core of the offense has been hobbled with injuries to
former All-Stars Rodriguez,  Derek Jeter ,  Mark Teixeira  and
 Curtis Granderson  as well as catcher  Francisco Cervelli . All
have missed most of the season.  Jeter, 39, returned from offseason ankle surgery on July
11, got four at-bats and then went back on the disabled list
with a thigh strain.  Drug Accusations  Rodriguez, 37, a three-time American League Most Valuable
Player, has been out all season following left hip surgery and
his planned return this week was postponed by a mild quadriceps
strain. He also has been surrounded by drug accusations.  The Miami New Times reported in January that Rodriguez’s
name was included on a client list at the now-defunct Biogenesis
of America LLC clinic in Coral Gables, Florida, which was
selling performance-enhancing drugs. ESPN reported in February
that Biogenesis founder Anthony Bosch injected Rodriguez with
banned substances, and the network said earlier this month that
MLB Commissioner  Bud Selig  would seek to suspend as many as 22
players without pay for their relationship with Biogenesis.  Rodriguez, who is fifth on baseball’s career list with 647
home runs, has said he wasn’t a patient of Bosch and otherwise
declined to comment on the Biogenesis case. He acknowledged in
February 2009 that he took banned performance-enhancing
substances from 2001 to 2003 when he was with the  Texas Rangers .
He is making $28 million this season, according to baseball-reference.com.  Declining Attendance  Meanwhile, the Yankees are averaging 39,669 fans through 51
home games this season -- down more than 9 percent from 43,733
per game for the entire 2012 season.  Afterman grew up a baseball fan, just not of the Yankees.
She is from San Francisco, and went to Giants games with her
family at wind-swept Candlestick Park, so “the Yankees were
very far off and were the American League.”  She performed in high school musicals ranging from “Guys
and Dolls,” as Salvation Army missionary Sarah Brown, to
 Stephen Sondheim ’s “Follies” as Sally, and moved on to dramas
such as  William Shakespeare ’s “As You Like It,” performing the
role of Celia, in college.  Acting Career  Afterman graduated from the  University of California ,
Berkeley, in 1979 and went to London to pursue a career in
acting. When that fell through, she tried acting in San
Francisco and New York while supporting herself by teaching
English as a second language.  She worked at  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s  Paramount Pictures  in feature
film production before attending law school at the University of
San Francisco.  Afterman was general counsel at Oxnard, California-based
Purepak Inc., a grower of organic fruits and vegetables, when
she met Don Nomura, who was representing Japanese baseball
players seeking to move to the major leagues.  Most Powerful  That brought her to the attention of Steinbrenner, and
eventually to a job that led Crain’s to label her one of the
“Most Powerful Women in New York 2007.”  “He was unafraid -- unafraid of anything and anybody,”
Afterman said of her former boss. “He was always up for a
challenge. We had Japanese clubs threatening to sue any baseball
team that signed a particular player, and that was pretty much
an engraved invitation to Mr. Steinbrenner, he was not going to
be intimidated by anybody.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  