-- Anglo CEO Seeks $1.3 Billion Cash Gain From Business Review
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-07-26T16:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/anglo-american-s-first-half-profit-falls-on-lower-metals-prices.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the mining
company that is reviewing its operations from  Australia  to
Brazil, will target a $1.3 billion gain in annual  cash flow  and
the sale of some assets during an overhaul.  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani , who is seeking to
complete the study in the next three months, has visited 40
percent of the company’s assets since taking over from Cynthia Carroll in April, he said on a conference call.  The company may consider seeking buyers for some of the 15
Anglo assets identified for potential divestment when markets
offer “good value,” Cutifani said from London. “I’ve got
recommendations to sell some assets, today isn’t a good time to
sell,” he said. “We’ll work to fix them and be opportunistic
to sell when there’s value. It’s a tough market now.”  Anglo’s first-half underlying earnings dropped 28 percent
to $1.25 billion from a year earlier, it said, because of lower
metal prices. Profit at mining companies has fallen as economic
growth slows in  China , the largest commodity importer. Anglo
last week booked a charge of $189 million for the six months
after the price it got for its copper slumped 14 percent.  “Decent interim results with ambitious cash uplift
plans,” Liberum Capital Ltd. said in a note to investors. “We
remain cynical of any massive cost savings management hope to
achieve, until they become more identifiable.”  Cash ‘Uplift’  Anglo gained 0.1 percent to 1,391 pence by the close in
London. It has dropped 26 percent in the past six months,
compared with an 11 percent decline for  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Rio
Tinto Group’s 17 percent retreat, and  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) ’s
drop of 28 percent.  Cutifani seeks to achieve the $1.3 billion annual cash flow
“uplift” by 2016 through $300 million savings from capital
allocations on early stage projects, about $500 million from
commercial business and $500 million from organizational
restructuring.  “There are projects that will be pushed back,” Cutifani
said on the call. “The $300 million is not fluffy stuff. It’s
been kicked back because they won’t deliver the sort of returns
I expect to see in the business. And that reduction will be an
ongoing reduction because we’ve changed the way we look at and
think about projects.”  Anglo has reduced the number of business units to six from
10, it said in a separate statement. “It’s about getting our
structure down to something that’s much more manageable,
effective, and cut out the bureaucracy,” Cutifani said.  Brazil Process  Anglo has started a process to sell less than a 50 percent
stake in its Minas-Rio iron ore project in  Brazil , according to
the CEO. “We are open, we are in conversation,” he said. “The
next 12 months will demonstrate that we de-risk the project.”  The metals producer hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan
Stanley and UBS AG to sell as much as 49.9 percent of the
project, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said
last month.  The plan to sell a stake in Minas-Rio follows the company’s
writedown in the value of the $8.8 billion mine, processing
plant, pipeline and port terminal by $4 billion. First shipments
are scheduled to start late in 2014 after years of delays and
budget increases.  Even with the review, Anglo will still be a diversified
mining company a year from now, Cutifani said.  “We like the commodity spread that we have and see
potential to make good returns across the business,” he said on
the conference call. “At the asset level, that’s where the
issues are.”  South Africa  Anglo’s platinum operations, chiefly in  South Africa , are
an undervalued business, Cutifani said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. Anglo, which has 45 percent of its
business in the country, including Anglo American Platinum Ltd.,
the biggest producer, needs to “reframe” its relationship with
South Africa after operating there for 80 years, Cutifani said
in the interview.  “The thing for us going forward is how do we make sure we
both do the right thing by our stakeholders, and certainly that
will be the central point of what I’ve got to do over the next
12 months in working with the government -- making sure we’ve
got the balance right.”  Amplats, as the Johannesburg-based platinum producer is
known, plans to cut 6,000 jobs, idle three shafts and reduce
annual output by 350,000 ounces.  About 5,600 South African workers at unit  Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s biggest producer of the metal, this
month went on strike demanding that suspended union officials be
reinstated.  Anglo’s current operating model isn’t effective and needs
to change to a more industrial approach, he said during the
interview. The company will have to increase the rate at which
it meets budget targets to 80 percent, from just 11 percent now,
he said earlier. “That’s the minimum we should be expecting,”
he told reporters. “To go from 11 percent to 80 percent or
better than 75 percent success rate means we have to run the
operations differently to what we’ve been doing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in  London  at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  