-- Angola Oil Finance May Lure U.S., Chinese Banks, Brokerage Says
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-07-26T09:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/angola-oil-finance-may-lure-u-s-chinese-banks-brokerage-says.html
Profit from a foreign-exchange law
in  Angola , Africa’s largest crude oil producer behind  Nigeria ,
may attract banks from the U.S., China and even Brazil,
according to Eaglestone Securities BV.  The law, passed last year, is expected to draw an
additional $20 billion to $30 billion a year through Angolan
banks, which may add 10 percent to their fee income, Lisbon-based analyst Tiago Dionisio wrote in a note published today.
Return on investment is expected to remain at 15 percent to 20
percent for the foreseeable future, he said.  Foreign  oil companies  such as  Total SA (FP) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  operating in the southwest African country
were required to pay taxes in kwanzas, the local currency, from
May. Since July 1 foreign companies must pay all domestic
suppliers in kwanzas, and after Oct. 1 they have to pay foreign
suppliers via Angolan bank accounts in local or foreign
currency.  The new law “should also raise foreign interest in local
banks, making consolidation a topic to monitor,” Dionisio
wrote. “The continued expansion of the banking sector in the
domestic market remains on the agenda of most players,” while
expensive real estate and a shortage of skilled labor and remain
challenges, he said.  Angola pumped 1.67 million barrels of oil a day in June,
mostly from offshore fields, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Exploration is at the leading edge of undersea
development with  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  preparing to drill
under a layer of salt 5 kilometers (3 miles) beneath the seabed
for discoveries similar to the 12 billion barrel Libra field off
Brazil predicted by the industry’s Atlantic mirror theory.  Business Growth  From 2008 to 2011, Angolan banks delivered an average
compound annual growth rate of 33 percent in net interest
income, according to Eaglestone’s Dionisio. Loans increased by
34 percent and profit rose 24 percent.  Growth in the country’s banking industry may be helped by
an economy that the World Bank forecasts will expand by 7.2
percent this year and 7.5 percent in 2014, Dionisio said.  Angola has 23 banks, with 75 percent to 80 percent of total
assets, loans and deposits controlled by five, according to
Eaglestone. They are  Banco Angolano de Investimentos SA , Banco
de Poupanca e Credito SA, Banco Espirito Santo Angola SA, Banco
BIC SA and Banco de Fomento Angola SA.  London-based Eaglestone was founded in 2011 with a focus on
sub-Sahara Africa. It has about 25 staff members with offices in
Amsterdam,  Cape Town , Luanda, Lisbon, New York and Maputo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  