-- Apple IPhone Share Shrinks as China’s Huawei to ZTE Lure Users
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-26T05:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/apple-iphone-share-shrinks-as-china-s-huawei-to-zte-lure-users.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s share of the global
smartphone market fell to its lowest in three years in the
second quarter as more consumers chose inexpensive handsets from
Chinese makers over the iPhone.  Apple shipped 31.2 million devices for 13.6 percent of the
global smartphone market, researcher Strategy Analytics reported
yesterday. That’s down from a 16.6 percent share a year earlier
and trails market leader  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s 76 million
shipments and 33.1 percent market share,  Boston , Massachusetts-based Strategy Analytics said.  The Cupertino, California-based smartphone maker lost share
to Chinese makers Huawei Technologies Co and  ZTE Corp. (763) ,
according to the report. Apple’s 20 percent increase during the
quarter was less than half the smartphone industry’s 47 percent
expansion pace, according to the report.  “Lower-priced smartphones continue to gain traction, but
the key for vendors will be to keep prices low while still
offering premium devices and services,”  Ramon Llamas , research
manager at International Data Corp. said in a separate report
yesterday.  Apple posted its second-lowest year-over-year iPhone growth
rate in almost four years as some buyers held off on purchases
in advance of an expected next-generation device this fall, IDC
said.  Apple’s global smartphone market share of 13.6 percent in
the quarter was its lowest level since the second quarter of
2010, according to the estimates by Strategy Analytics.  LG Electronics  “The current iPhone portfolio is under-performing and
Apple is at risk of being trapped in a pincer movement between
rival 3-inch Android models at the low-end and 5-inch Android
models at the high-end,” Neil Mawston, executive director at
Strategy Analytics, wrote in the report.  Apple is also losing share to  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  of South
Korea, according to both IDC and Strategy Analytics.  “LG was a star performer as global shipments doubled year-over-year,” Linda Sui, analyst at Strategy Analytics, said in
the report. “If LG can expand its retail presence and marketing
in major countries such as the U.S. or  China , LG could quietly
start to challenge Apple for second position.”  The top five global smartphone vendors in the second
quarter by IDC’s ranking are: Samsung with 30.4 percent; Apple
with 13.1 percent; LG with 5.1 percent; Lenovo with 4.7 percent
and ZTE with 4.2 percent.  The ranking from Strategy Analytics shows Samsung at 33.1
percent; Apple with 13.6 percent; LG with 5.3 percent; ZTE with
5 percent and Huawei with 4.8 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  