-- Harlem Bard, ‘Getting My Act Together,’ Crybabies: Stage
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-07-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/harlem-bard-getting-my-act-together-crybabies-stage.html
“I’m Getting My Act Together and
Taking It on the Road” is a knockout even after 35 years of
wear and tear. You only have until tomorrow night to see it at
the  City Center ’s “Encores! Off-Center” series.  A collaboration by Gretchen Cryer (book and lyrics) and
Nancy Ford (music), it’s about a cabaret singer on the cusp of
40 discovering her inner Carole King.  Heather, acted and sung with irresistible soulfulness by
Renee Elise Goldsberry, chooses opening night before an audience
of industry bigwigs to unveil her new, raised-consciousness
material.  She has the support of her female back-up singers and male
band. But when her manager (Frederick Weller) shows up and hears
the songs, he freaks.  Some of you probably had at least one of the Indian
bedspreads that make up most of Derek McLane’s set; ditto the
costumes by Clint Ramos. Under Kathleen Marshall’s exuberant
direction, the cast is wonderful.  Weller is even better, exuding bumbling cluelessness. As
for Goldsberry, heretofore a mainstay of Shakespeare in the Park
productions, she’s a star.  Through July 27 at City Center, 131 W. 55th St.
Information: +1-212-581-1212;  http://www.nycitycenter.org 
Rating: ****  Cry Baby  Wallace Shawn’s “The Designated Mourner,” revived at the
Public, is a self-lacerating meditation on the dissolution of
civilized society through the complacency of the civilized.  The production, staged by Andre Gregory with Shawn in the
title role, Deborah Eisenberg as his wife and Larry Pine as his
father-in-law, is beautifully and simply designed in whitewashed
wood paneling by Eugene Lee.  But this irony-free play takes three-plus dreary hours to
say what just about any Randy Newman song conveys in four
minutes, minus the smugness that suffuses it. Mourning is an apt
word; the play is deader than the elite culture it
simultaneously indicts and embraces.  Through Aug. 25 at the  Public Theater , 425 Lafayette St.
Information: +1-212-967-7555;  http://www.publictheater.org .
Rating: *1/2  Harlem Bard  You don’t have to wait on line all day to see Shakespeare
in the Park. Just head up to the splendid Richard Rodgers
Amphitheater in Harlem’s  Marcus Garvey Park  for an enchanting
(if abbreviated and somewhat altered) version of “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream.”  There are African drums, colorful gowns, nimble dancers and
one sex change -- Lysander is now Lysandra -- in Justin Emeka’s
production with the  Classical Theatre of Harlem .  Michael Early and Zainab Jah are well-matched as the
battling Oberon and Titania. Throw in some truly unruly “Rude
Mechanicals,” plus infectious choreography by Lakai Worell
(kids in the audience went right up to the stage to mime the
action).  Afterward, walk around the corner for an outdoor drink at
Red Rooster to watch the rest of the parade passing by.  Through July 30 at the Richard Rodgers Amphitheater in
Marcus Garvey Park, Mt. Morris Park West at West 122nd Street.
Information: +1-347-688-6304;
 http://www.classicaltheatreofharlem.org . Rating: ***  Red Lights  The adventurous  York Theater Company  has gone all out for
“Storyville,” a musical set in 1917 about the last days of  New
Orleans ’s red light district.  The lobby hosts an exhibition of E.J. Bellocq’s transfixing
photographs of prostitutes, and the design carries over into
James Morgan’s amazing environmental set, cramming brothels,
clubs, apartments and street life into the tiny theater.  I wish the show were up to the high expectations these
accoutrements raise.  The stories include a boxer-turned-horn player out to make
his mark, and the thread of corruption that leads from the white
mayor and a French purveyor of dope down to the working girls
dreaming of better lives.  “Storyville” has been knocking around in various
productions for years, and despite the game cast, you can feel
the exhaustive efforts to breathe life into Ed Bullins’s
predictable book and Mildred Kayden’s generic songs.  Through Aug. 17 at the York Theatre Company at St. Peter’s
Church, East 54th Street and Lexington Avenue. Information: +1-212-935-5824;  http://www.yorktheatre.org . Rating: **1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and  New York   Weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 