-- Asia Stocks Fall Led by Japan Stocks Before Earnings Peak
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-07-26T10:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/asian-stocks-poised-to-fall-third-day-as-industrial-shares-drop.html
Asian stocks  fell, with the regional
benchmark index paring its longest weekly winning streak since
January. Japanese shares fell the most in six weeks ahead of the
busiest week of earnings.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  lost 3.6 percent as the Japanese
carmaker said it was outsold by General Motors Co. for the first
time in six quarters. Advantest Corp. slumped 9.7 percent in
Tokyo after the chip-equipment maker posted a wider-than-expected quarterly loss. BBMG Corp. and Shandong Chenming Paper
Holdings Ltd. slid in  Hong Kong  and mainland trading after they
were cited by the Chinese government in a list of companies that
must curb capacity this year.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.6 percent to 135.24 as
of 7:07 p.m. in Tokyo, with about two stocks dropping for each
that rose. The measure has gained 0.2 percent this week, heading
for a five-week advance. U.S. data showed mixed clues as to when
the  Federal Reserve  may taper stimulus.  “The market is still trying to make sense of whether
tapering is good or bad, and I think it will bring us good, but
we are in this process of going up and down depending on daily
moves,” said Mikio Kumada, a Hong Kong-based global strategist
for LGT Capital Partners. In  China , “the message they are
trying to convey is that ‘look, we are going to put a floor on
growth.’”  The  MSCI measure  gained 5.2 percent this year through
yesterday, with consumer discretionary shares rising the most
and energy shares falling the most. The index traded at 13.4
times estimated earnings, compared with 15.4 times for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 13.5 times for the Stoxx Europe
600 Index.  Earnings Analysis  Of the 103 companies in the Asia-Pacific gauge that have
posted quarterly results and for which Bloomberg has estimates,
53 percent beat projections while 47 percent missed them.  Japan’s Topix index  lost 2.9 percent, the biggest slump
since June 13. About 690 companies including Toyota in the
1,710-member measure are scheduled to announce results next
week.  “Japanese earnings aren’t good enough to alleviate the
fears from global concerns,” said  Tomomi Yamashita , who helps
oversee the equivalent of $5 billion at Shinkin Asset Management
Co. in Tokyo. “There’s still concern about how the U.S.
tapering story will pan out, and about  China’s economy . It’s
quite surprising how volatile markets are being today though,
given how quiet it’s been recently.”  Higher Yen  Toyota dropped 3.6 percent to 6,150 yen after reporting
global sales from January to June fell 1.2 percent and as the
yen strengthened against all of its 16 major counterparts. A
stronger yen weakens the earnings outlook for export income.
Sony Corp., a TV maker with 68 percent of its sales coming from
overseas, slid 3.4 percent to 2,133 yen.  The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding  Japan  Index gained 0.3
percent.  South Korea ’s Kospi Index,  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200
Index and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index all rose 0.1 percent.  Taiwan’s Taiex Index fell 0.2 percent, while  Singapore ’s
Straits Times Index advanced 0.2 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Index (HSI)  was little changed, erasing gains of as much as 0.6
percent.  China’s Shanghai Composite fell 0.5 percent after the
government ordered more than 1,400 companies in 19 industries to
cut excess production capacity this year, part of efforts to
shift toward slower, more-sustainable economic growth. Steel,
ferro alloys, electrolytic aluminum, copper smelting, cement and
paper are among areas affected, the Ministry of Industry and
 Information Technology  said in a statement yesterday.  U.S. Data  Futures of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index decreased 0.3
percent today. The measure gained 0.3 percent in  New York 
yesterday, when reports showed that U.S. orders for durable
goods rose more than forecast in June, while more Americans
filed for  unemployment benefits  last week. The Fed next meets to
review policy on July 30 and 31.  Advantest slumped 9.7 percent to 1,390 yen after posting a
3.6 billion yen net loss for the quarter ended June 30. The
stock fell the most in Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average, which
dropped 3 percent.  JFE Holdings Inc., Japan’s second-biggest steelmaker,
tumbled 8.3 percent to 2,363 yen after declining to provide a
full-year profit forecast, citing difficulty in reaching a
rational estimate.  Tencent Holdings Ltd., the world’s No. 2 Internet company
by market value, rose 3.9 percent to HK$347.40 in Hong Kong. The
company is benefiting from online and mobile games advertising.
Also, a surge in U.S. technology stocks including Facebook Inc.
yesterday is stimulating today’s gains, said Ricky Lai, analyst
at Guotai Junan International Holdings Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  