-- Asian Stocks Post Weekly Gain as China Pledges Stimulus
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-07-26T23:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/asian-stocks-post-weekly-gain-as-china-pledges-stimulus.html
Asian  stocks  outside of  Japan  rose
for a third week as Chinese equities advanced amid government
pledges to do more to support transition in the world’s No. 2
economy. Japanese shares retreated as the yen strengthened.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s
second-biggest lender by market value, gained 3.9 percent in
Hong Kong as Chinese Premier Li Keqiang said economic growth
won’t fall below 7 percent. ZTE Corp.,  China ’s second-largest
maker of equipment for phone networks, surged 19 percent after
reporting higher first-half profit. Canon Inc., the world’s
biggest camera maker, sank 6.5 percent in Tokyo after cutting
its profit forecast for this year.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index added 1.9
percent to 447.69 this week as Chinese shares led gains. The
benchmark MSCI Asia-Pacific Index, up 0.4 percent on the week,
has fallen 6.2 percent from this year’s high on May 20 through
July 26 amid signs China’s economy is slowing and on concern the
Federal Reserve will start tapering monetary stimulus as the U.S.
economy improves.  Li’s statement “helped to reassure investors,”  Daphne Roth , Singapore-based head of Asia equity research at ABN Amro
Private Bank, which oversees about $207 billion, said by
telephone. “China could introduce some kind of fiscal stimulus
to help stabilize the economy. While there’s a likelihood the
Fed will start tapering monetary stimulus in September, we don’t
expect the Fed to start raising rates until the end of 2014. We
remain overweight on equities.”  Half of the economists surveyed by Bloomberg say the
Federal Reserve will in September begin tapering its bond-buying
program that has supported bond and equity gains.  Relative Value  Shares on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index traded at 13.2 times
estimated earnings as of yesterday, compared with 15.2 times for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 13.5 times for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index.  The Shanghai Composite Index climbed 0.9 percent this week.
The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
traded in Hong Kong advanced 3.3 percent, its biggest weekly
gain since May 10. The benchmark Hang Seng Index gained 2.8
percent.  Chinese shares rallied as Premier Li’s commitment to
support growth overshadowed a weaker manufacturing report.
China’s “bottom line” for gross domestic product growth is 7
percent and the nation can’t let growth go below that, Beijing
News reported on July 23, Li’s comments at a recent meeting with
economists and business people.  South Korea’s  Kospi index  rose 2.1 percent this week, while
 Taiwan ’s Taiex index added 1.1 percent.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200
Index gained 1.4 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
increased 1 percent.  Topix Retreats  Japan’s  Topix (TPX)  index dropped 3.7 percent this week and the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average sank 3.2 percent. Both gauges retreated
for the first time in six weeks as the Japanese yen strengthened.  Investor attention in Japan has shifted to whether the
government will cut corporate taxes, ease regulations, loosen
labor laws, join the Trans-Pacific Partnership free-trade
agreement and raise the sales tax as planned. Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s victory in the July 21 upper-house election gave
him a freer hand to execute economic reforms.  “There’s a feeling that stocks are overheating, so after
gains there’s going to be a lot of profit taking,” said
 Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc., a unit of Japan’s second-biggest lender by
market value. “Still, with expectations for Abenomics and
Japan’s economic recovery, we probably won’t see big declines.”  CSR, ZTE  Chinese lenders and developers rose. ICBC, as China’s
biggest bank is known, climbed 3.9 percent to HK$5.11.  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  advanced 5.3 percent to HK$5.78. CSR
Corp., the nation’s biggest trainmaker, surged 9 percent to
HK$5.35.  ZTE jumped 19 percent to HK$13.74 this week after saying
first-half net income rose 23 percent to 302.3 million  yuan  ($49
million).  Daihatsu Motor Co., the minicar maker 52 percent owned by
Toyota Motor Corp., advanced 5.7 percent to 2,188 yen in  Tokyo 
after first-quarter profit beat analysts’ estimates.  Of the 108 companies on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index that
reported quarterly earnings since July 1 and for which estimates
are available, 51 percent exceeded analyst estimates, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Among stocks that fell, Canon slumped 6.5 percent to 3,165
yen this week in Tokyo after cutting its profit forecast by 10
percent.  Toyota fell 5 percent to 6,150 yen as General Motors Co.
outsold Japan’s biggest carmaker for the first time in six
quarters.  Japanese exporters also declined as the yen advanced this
week. A stronger yen reduces the value of overseas income at
carmakers and electronics manufacturers when repatriated.  Honda
Motor Co. (7267) , which gets about 83 percent of sales abroad, lost 2.2
percent to 3,790 yen. Sony Corp., the maker of Bravia
televisions and PlayStation game consoles, lost 2.5 percent to
2,133 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  