-- Latvian Regulator Probes TeliaSonera Transfers to Parex Account
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2013-07-26T11:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/latvian-regulator-probes-teliasonera-transfers-to-parex-account.html
Latvia’s bank regulator is
investigating transfers made to an account at Parex Banka AS by
 TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  that involved an Uzbek mobile license and led to
the resignation of the company’s chief executive officer.  “The processes are continuing, yet it’s too early to talk
about the results,” Ieva Upleja, a spokeswoman for the Latvian
Financial and Capital Markets Commission, said in a statement
late yesterday.  TeliaSonera’s Chief Executive Officer Lars Nyberg resigned
on Feb. 1 after a legal firm hired to investigate graft
accusations said the carrier should have been more careful when
it bought an Uzbek phone license in 2007. Mannheimer Swartling,
the  law firm , said in its review that TeliaSonera transferred
money into accounts in Nordea Bank AB and Parex held by a
Gibraltar-based Takilant Ltd. as part of the mobile deal.  Kristina Hunter Nilsson, a spokeswoman for TeliaSonera in
 Stockholm , was today not immediately able to comment on the
Latvian probe.  Swedish prosecutors opened an investigation last year into
whether the country’s largest operator knew, or should have
known, when it bought an Uzbeki phone license from Takilant in
2007 that the money went to President Islam Karimov’s family.  The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority on April 16
fined Nordea 30 million kronor ($4.6 million) for being
“deficient in its handling of the EU sanctions regulations and
in its work to prevent  money laundering .”  Latvia’s regulator found that Nordea’s unit in the Baltic
country didn’t have weaknesses in its system that would allow
transfers such as in  Sweden , said Upleja.  Parex was Latvia’s second-biggest bank in 2008 when it
needed a state rescue. The government took over the lender and
split it into a good and bank, creating a new lender called
Citadele Banka AS and an  asset management company  renamed
Reverta AS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  