-- Aussie Headed for Second-Straight Weekly Gain Before Fed Meeting
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-07-26T06:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/aussie-headed-for-second-straight-weekly-gain-before-fed-meeting.html
The Australian dollar headed for a
second-straight weekly gain against the greenback amid
speculation the Federal Reserve will maintain bond purchases
that have supported higher-yielding assets around the world.  The Aussie traded near its weakest in 4 1/2 years against
New Zealand’s kiwi dollar as traders boosted bets for the
Reserve Bank of  Australia  to lower borrowing costs when policy
makers meet on Aug. 6. The kiwi is set for a five-day advance
against all 16 of its major peers after the nation’s central
bank said yesterday a removal of monetary stimulus “will likely
be needed in the future,” prompting wagers for an increase to
the benchmark rate as early as January 2014.  “A lot will depend on how financial conditions evolve in
the U.S. and whether the Fed looks to reduce its stimulus,”
said Peter Dragicevich, a Sydney-based currency economist at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s largest lender.
“We expect it will at some point in 2013, but there is a risk
that it delays it by a meeting or two. We don’t think the Aussie
will fall too far.”  The Aussie rose 0.1 percent to 92.59 U.S. cents as of 4:46
p.m. in Sydney, headed for a 1 percent weekly advance. New
Zealand’s dollar was little changed at 80.77 U.S. cents after
climbing 1.9 percent yesterday, its biggest one-day gain since
June 2012. Australia’s currency gained 0.2 percent to NZ$1.1463,
after reaching NZ$1.1397 yesterday, the weakest since November
2008.  Levels around 91.50 U.S. cents could provide support to the
Aussie in coming days, said Dragicevich, referring to an area on
a chart where orders to buy may be clustered.  No Reduction  The Federal Open Market Committee is scheduled to meet July
30-31. It won’t announce a decision to reduce its monthly bond
purchases at that meeting, according to 54 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News from July 18-22. Half of those polled said Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will trim bond buying to $65 billion in
September from the current pace of $85 billion.  There’s a 76 percent chance RBA Governor Glenn Stevens and
his board will lower Australia’s benchmark rate by 25 basis
points to 2.5 percent at a meeting next month,  interest-rate
swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s up from 65 percent
odds signaled on July 19.  Traders see a 60 percent probability Reserve Bank of New
Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler will raise borrowing costs from
a record-low 2.5 percent to 2.75 percent or higher by its
January meeting, according to Bloomberg-compiled data. That
compares with 41 percent odds seen a week ago  “Wheeler’s comments regarding the need to remove monetary
stimulus are producing a stronger-than-expected contrast with
the RBA’s more subdued policy profile,” Adam Myers, the head of
foreign-exchange strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank in  London , wrote in a research note. “Selling
momentum in AUD/NZD should persist into next week.”  Australia’s  10-year government bond yield  was unchanged at
3.78 percent, after earlier touching 3.79 percent, the highest
since July 10. New Zealand’s  two-year swap rate , a fixed payment
made to receive floating rates that is sensitive to interest-rate expectations, gained two basis points to 3.36 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  