-- Australia’s Deal With PNG May Harm Asylum Seekers, UN Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-07-26T05:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/australia-s-deal-with-png-may-harm-asylum-seekers-un-says.html
Australia’s new policy of sending
refugees to detention camps in  Papua New Guinea  may cause
physical and mental harm to the asylum seekers, the  United
Nations  said.  “There are currently significant shortcomings in the legal
framework for receiving and processing asylum seekers from
Australia” in Papua New Guinea, the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees said in an e-mailed statement today.
“These include a lack of national capacity and expertise in
processing, and poor physical conditions within open-ended,
mandatory and arbitrary detention settings.”  Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd , who must hold elections by the
end of November, last week toughened his government’s stance
against asylum seekers by announcing Australia would refuse
entry to refugees arriving by boat and send them to Papua New
Guinea. The failure to cut the number of asylum seekers
attempting to reach Australia by sea has eroded support for his
ruling  Labor party .  Asylum seekers from war-torn countries including
Afghanistan and Pakistan have used Indonesia as a stepping stone
to Australia, hiring people smugglers to ferry them in
unseaworthy boats.  Since 2008, more than 1,000 asylum seekers have died at
sea, with 48,000 people arriving on Australian soil on almost
800 “illegal” boats, opposition leader  Tony Abbott  said
yesterday, announcing plans to let Australia’s military lead
efforts to combat people smuggling should the coalition win
government.  Sending asylum seekers to Papua New Guinea was “a very
hardline decision,” Rudd said July 19. The agreement with its
neighbour didn’t put a limit on the number of people who could
be sent there, he said.  The UN was “troubled by the current absence of adequate
protection standards and safeguards for asylum seekers and
refugees in Papua New Guinea,” it said in today’s statement.
Conditions in the camps “can be harmful to the physical and
psycho-social well-being of transferees, particularly families
and children,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  