-- China’s Bond Risk Poised For First Rise in 5 Weeks Amid Slowdown
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-07-26T05:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/australia-bond-risk-rises-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
The perception of  China ’s
creditworthiness weakened for the first time in five weeks as a
slump in manufacturing added to signs of an economic slowdown,
driving up yields in Asia’s bond markets.  The cost of insuring China’s sovereign notes against non-payment was at 110 basis points as of 9:12 a.m. in  Singapore ,
according to prices from  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  That’s up  12
basis points  since July 19, set for the first weekly gain since
June 21, according to data provider CMA. Average dollar bond
 yields  for Asian borrowers climbed seven to 5.21 percent for the
first advance in three weeks, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes.  China has ordered more than 1,400 companies in 19
industries to cut excess production capacity this year as part
of efforts to shift toward slower and more sustainable growth.
Steel, copper smelting, cement and paper are among areas
affected, the government said in a statement yesterday.
Manufacturing fell in July to the lowest in 11 months, according
to the preliminary reading published by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics on July 24.  “There’s been a marginal increase in credit risk in the
region,” said Hemant Dharnidharka, head of credit research at
SJS Markets Ltd. “If the Chinese numbers deteriorate further,
the overall global economic scenario would worsen.”  Asia Risk  The Markit iTraxx  Asia  index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  was unchanged at 142 basis points as of
8:30 a.m. in Singapore, Westpac prices show. The benchmark is
headed for its biggest weekly gain in five weeks, rising from
132.8 on July 19, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index rose 120 basis points as
of 10:28 a.m. in Sydney, according to National Australia Bank
Ltd. prices. The measure is on track for its first weekly gain
since the five days ended June 21, according to CMA, which
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index fell 0.5 basis points to 98.5
basis points as of 9:28 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Citigroup
Inc. prices. The gauge is set to fall for the first time in
three days, according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  