-- Taxi Operator Blue Bird Said to Seek $600 Million IPO
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-07-26T03:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/taxi-operator-blue-bird-said-to-seek-600-million-ipo.html
Blue Bird Group , the biggest taxi
operator in  Indonesia , plans to seek at least $600 million in an
initial public offering in the country, three people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The company, based in Jakarta, may start the sale in the
fourth quarter, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private. The fundraising target could
be expanded to as much as $800 million, one person said.  At $600 million, the IPO would be Indonesia’s largest since
PT Indofood CBP, a food producer, raised $696 million in October
2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. With the potential for
rising wealth and consumption luring investors to  Southeast
Asia ’s largest economy, companies have raised $3.7 billion in
share sales in Jakarta this year, more than twice the amount of
the year-earlier period, the data show.  Credit Suisse Group AG, Rothschild and UBS AG are among
banks arranging the IPO, the people said.  Blue Bird spokesman Teguh Wijayanto did not answer two
calls to his mobile phone seeking comment. Wijayanto said in
November that Blue Bird may sell 20 percent to 40 percent of the
company in an IPO this year, without specifying a target for
proceeds from the sale.  Blue Bird has grown from 25 taxis in 1972 to around 26,000
today and serves more than 8.5 million passengers per month
across the country, according to its  website . Its name was taken
from a European fairy tale about a girl and a blue bird who
worked tirelessly to find happinesss, the website says.  Another Indonesian taxi operator,  PT Express Transindo
Utama Tbk (TAXI) , raised 588.7 billion rupiah ($57 million) in an IPO
in October 2012. The stock has surged 74 percent this year.  In the biggest Indonesian share sale this year, PT Matahari
Department Store’s owners raised $1.5 billion selling stock in
the retailer in March and April, Bloomberg data show. Investment
company  Saratoga Investama Sedaya PT (SRTG)  completed the biggest local
IPO this year, raising $152 million last month, the data show.  Indonesia’s rupiah fell to a four-year low yesterday on
concern that demand for emerging-market assets will wane if the
 Federal Reserve  starts to reduce stimulus. The country’s
benchmark stock index has fallen 10 percent from a record high
in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  