-- Bangladesh Detains Suspended Mayor of Collapsed Factory Town
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-07-26T08:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/bangladesh-detains-suspended-mayor-of-collapsed-factory-town.html
The suspended mayor of the
Bangladeshi town where a garment factory collapse killed more
than 1,000 people earlier this year has been detained by a
judicial magistrate in the capital Dhaka.  Refayet Ullah, who was arrested on Wednesday, was ordered
to be held in custody by a magistrate after his bail application
was rejected, his lawyer Sanaullah Miah said. He was earlier
suspended from his job for failures in monitoring building
constructions.  The arrest is part of an investigation into the collapse of
Rana Plaza on April 24, the country’s worst industrial accident
to date. At least 21 people have been arrested in two cases tied
to the collapse, Bijoy Krishna Kar, an assistant superintendent
of police, said in a phone interview today. The investigation
will probably take two more months, he said.  Soon after the collapse, security forces tracked owner
Sohel Rana to a western border town and brought him back to
Dhaka to face charges. Some members of his family were also
detained and a judge ordered his assets seized.  After cracks were found in the building April 23, Rana
forced workers to return to their posts and said it was safe as
it was being checked by engineers, according to Mokhlesur
Rahman, director general of the Rapid Action Battalion, an elite
law-enforcement agency.  When the military ended rescue operations on May 14, the
death toll had reached 1,131, reinforcing calls in  Bangladesh 
and elsewhere that the tragedy should lead to lasting change.  Earlier this week, the Bangladeshi government, employers’
and workers organizations signed a plan of action to improve
fire safety and construction standards in garment factories in
the countries. Key actions under the plan include assessment of
factories and strengthening labor inspections, the International
Labor Organization said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  