-- Barclays Seen With Profit Gain as CEO Fends Off Capital Demands
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-07-26T09:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/barclays-seen-with-profit-gain-as-ceo-fends-off-capital-demands.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-largest bank by assets, may post a 19 percent gain in second-quarter profit as Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins  tries
to fend off regulators’ calls to raise capital immediately.  Barclays will say pretax profit, excluding swings in the
value of its own debt, rose to 2.11 billion pounds ($3.3
billion) from 1.78 billion pounds in the year-earlier period on
cost-cuts and increased income from  investment banking ,
according to the median  estimate  of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The London-based lender is scheduled to report
results on July 30 at 7 a.m. local time.  Barclays, which holds the least capital as a proportion of
its assets of Britain’s four biggest banks, has been pressed by
regulators to boost that ratio to 3 percent. Jenkins, who took
up the job 11 months ago, warned that doing that immediately
could force the bank to cut lending, while analysts speculated
it could make it sell as much as 6 billion pounds of stock.
Barclays is in talks with regulators to delay the move until the
end of 2014, according to the Financial Times.  “Extending the deadline by a year would be welcome,” said
Shailesh Raikundlia, an analyst at Espirito Santo Investment
Bank in London with a buy rating on the stock. “The risk of a
capital-raising to meet the  leverage ratio  has receded.”  Barclays may still have to reduce the size of its balance
sheet by 7.5 percent, or 107 billion pounds, to hit the target
“without having much impact on profitability” Raikundlia said.  Businesses Cut?  The bank could reduce the size of its 177 billion-pound
repo-financing business, where securities such as Treasuries and
mortgage bonds are sold with an agreement by the borrower to buy
them back later, Morgan Stanley analyst Huw van Steenis wrote in
a note to clients. Barclays may also cut loans to other banks or
reduce its liquid asset buffer, he said.  The 3 percent target, which aims to limit the risks to the
taxpayer in a repeat of the financial crisis, would force banks
to hold 3 pounds of equity for every 100 pounds of assets. Both
Barclays and Nationwide Building Society, the U.K.’s largest
customer-owned lender, fell short of the goal at 2.5 percent and
2 percent respectively. The Prudential Regulation Authority gave
Nationwide until 2015 to comply, allowing the mutual to avoid
issuing capital that could have forced its member-owners to cede
control.  When Jenkins, 52, suggested on June 28 bringing forward the
leverage ratio target may choke off lending, the  Bank of England 
responded on the same day that capital plans that restrict
credit to the economy “will not be accepted.”  Stock Offering?  Even with the extra time, Barclays may still need to sell
as much as 6 billion pounds of stock because the bank, which
acquired the North American business of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2008, may be required to hold more capital by U.S.
regulators, said  Mike Trippitt , an analyst at Numis Securities
Ltd. with a sell rating on Barclays.  “Recent history suggests that the pessimistic scenario may
well become the realistic scenario,” wrote Trippitt.  Barclays spokesman John McGuinness declined to comment as
did officials at the PRA in London.  Since taking the top job about a year ago, Jenkins has
overseen a 76 percent gain in its shares, second only to Lloyds
Banking Group Plc’s 107 percent increase at yesterday’s close of
trading. The 40-member  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index  rose 29 percent in the period.  Jenkins said in February the bank will cut 1.7 billion
pounds in annual expenses by 2015, eliminate 3,700 jobs and
reduce costs to about 55 percent of income from 71 percent in
the first quarter. His cost target matches those of  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. HSBC’s costs
were 50.8 percent of revenue in the period, compared with 64
percent for RBS, according to company filings.  Cost Cuts  “Jenkins has got to show he’s edging the cost base down
and show growth from Barclaycard and the retail business,” said
Julian Chillingworth, who helps manage about 20 billion pounds
at  Rathbone Brothers Plc (RAT)  in London including Barclays shares.  Corporate and investment banking provided about 50 percent
of the bank’s revenue last year and its African operations and
Absa supplied 11 percent, according to company filings.
Barclaycard, the credit card business, contributed about 14
percent, the U.K. and European consumer banking unit about 18
percent and wealth management 6 percent.  Investors “will reward cost discipline” from the bank,
Morgan Stanley analysts led by Chris Manners with an overweight
rating on the stock wrote in a July 24 note to clients. Costs
may have fallen 1 percent, or about 60 million pounds in the
quarter, he said.  Investment Bank  Revenue at Barclays’s investment bank, led by Eric Bommensath and Tom King, may have risen by 2 percent in the
second quarter to 3.08 billion pounds, Morgan Stanley analysts
said.  “Growth should not be as strong as for U.S. banks,”
Manners wrote. Fixed income, commodities and currencies, the
unit’s largest business, may post a 5 percent revenue increase
to 1.85 billion pounds, falling short of its peers because of a
“strong” performance in the year-earlier period, he said.  Credit Suisse Group AG,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest
lender, said on yesterday revenue from the fixed-income sales
and trading unit rose 13 percent from the second quarter of 2012
to 1.26 billion Swiss francs ($1.34 billion). Its investment
bank had a pretax profit of 754 million francs, up from 314
million francs in the year-earlier period as revenue rose 24
percent.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Citigroup
Inc., Bank of America Corp. and Morgan Stanley reported a
cumulative 24 percent gain in revenue at their investment banks
from the year-earlier quarter, excluding own debt valuations,
data compiled by Bloomberg Industries show.  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Simone Meier  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  