-- Barclays May Announce Capital Raise Next Week, WSJ Says
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-07-26T18:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/barclays-may-announce-capital-raise-next-week-wsj-says.html
Barclays Plc, whose Chief Executive
Officer  Antony Jenkins  has been seeking to fend off regulators’
calls to increase capital, will probably announce plans next
week to raise billions of dollars, the Wall Street Journal
reported.  The bank may sell convertible bonds and common stock to
boost its  capital ratios , the newspaper said today, citing
people familiar with the matter without identifying them.  Mark Lane , a spokesman for the London-based lender, declined to
comment. Barclays is scheduled to report quarterly earnings on
July 30.  Barclays, which holds the least capital as a proportion of
its assets of Britain’s four biggest banks, has been pressed by
regulators to boost that ratio to 3 percent. Jenkins, 52, who
took up the job 11 months ago, warned that doing so immediately
could force the bank to cut lending, while analysts estimated
the bank could have to sell as much as 6 billion pounds ($9.2
billion) of stock.  Barclays (BARC)  is in talks with regulators to delay
the move until the end of 2014, according to the Financial
Times.  Barclays is also in discussions with U.K. regulators about
the size of the capital raise, according to the Journal. The
plans are preliminary and may change, the newspaper said.  The 3 percent target, which seeks to limit the risks to the
taxpayer in a repeat of the financial crisis, would force banks
to hold 3 pounds of equity for every 100 pounds of assets. Both
Barclays and Nationwide Building Society, the U.K.’s largest
customer-owned lender, fell short of the goal at 2.5 percent and
2 percent respectively. The Prudential Regulation Authority gave
Nationwide until 2015 to comply, allowing the mutual to avoid
issuing capital that could have forced its member-owners to cede
control.  When Jenkins suggested on June 28 that bringing forward the
leverage ratio target may choke off lending, the  Bank of England 
responded on the same day that capital plans that restrict
credit to the economy “will not be accepted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  