-- Belgacom Soars as Mobile Wins Ease Payout Threat: Brussels Mover
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-07-26T17:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/belgacom-soars-as-mobile-wins-ease-payout-threat-brussels-mover.html
Belgacom SA (BELG) , the largest telephone
company in Belgium, climbed the most in Brussels trading since
going public in 2004 as better-than-estimated earnings
alleviated concern about a possible dividend cut.  Belgacom jumped 9.1 percent to 18.335 euros on Euronext
Brussels, the biggest gain since it  first  sold shares in March
2004. The shares had lost 24 percent this year through
yesterday, the  worst performance  among the 23 companies in the
Stoxx 600 Telecommunications Index, as investors speculated that
Belgacom would have to reduce its payouts amid mounting mobile
competition in Belgium.  Chief Executive Officer Didier Bellens switched Belgacom’s
focus to mobile customer wins in the past quarter using handset
subsidies and a simplified offer of lower-priced rate plans,
backed by price increases for bundled fixed-line products and
direct sales through the company’s own website. Belgacom added
128,000 postpaid clients in the three months through June,
halting the erosion of its mobile-customer base, and maintained
its  forecast  for a drop of as much as 6 percent in earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization this year.  “The fact that Belgacom reiterates its guidance might give
investors hope that the 2013  dividend  will amount to 2.18 euros
a share,” Emmanuel Carlier, an analyst at ING Bank NV in
Brussels, wrote in an investor note. “Free cash flow will
remain under pressure in the coming years, suggesting a dividend
cut is merely a question of time.”  Mobile Prices  Second-quarter earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization of 430 million euros ($572 million)  surpassed 
the 414.2 million-euro average of 12 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Revenue fell 2.5 percent on a like-for-like basis,
worsening from a 0.8 percent drop in the preceding quarter amid
lower mobile prices.  Mobistar,  Belgium ’s second-largest mobile-phone operator,
lowered its forecasts and suspended its dividend earlier this
week to retain cash for network investments after customer
losses continued and lower-priced rate plans took a larger hit
on service revenue than analysts had estimated.  Belgacom generated 371 million euros of cash from
operations less capital spending before changes in working
capital in the first half, a 4.9 percent drop from the same
period a year earlier.  Free cash flow, which also incorporates changes in
inventories, accounts receivable and accounts payable, tumbled
53 percent to 136 million euros in the same period because of
timing differences in income tax payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  