-- BG Makes Progress in Brazil After ‘Extremely Good’ Test
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-07-26T10:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/bg-makes-progress-in-brazil-after-extremely-good-test.html
BG Group Plc (BG/)  said test results at
its Iara field in  Brazil  were “extremely good” and the
reservoir size is similar to the nation’s largest field.  The British company along with Petroleo Brasileiro SA and
Galp Energia SGPS SA this month completed an appraisal of the
fourth well at the field, “which has oil in place similar to
Lula,” BG said today in a statement. BG and its partners plan
to install eight production units at Lula, which is the biggest
oilfield in Brazil, and have so far designed two at Iara.  The comments about Iara were more optimistic than Chief
Executive Officer Chris Finlayson’s guidance about the project
in May, when he described it as having “poorer reservoir
properties” than Lula. Today, in a conference call, he said it
was “an absolutely excellent well.”  The well flowed 7,500 barrels a day during tests, which was
limited by equipment in place, he said.  “This is extremely good news,” Finlayson said. “This is
a key piece of information for our plans” as the companies
evaluate an announcement on the commercial future of the
project. He declined to discuss how BG might expand investment
on the field.  The company’s comments “hinted at potential fast-tracking
of the Iara project, given strong results from the Iara-4
appraisal well,”  Oswald Clint , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in London, wrote in an e-mailed report today.  Petrobras, the world’s biggest producer from deep waters,
encountered rocks with low permeability in sections of the Iara
field, three people with knowledge of the project said in May.
Lula and Iara are located on the same exploration block and are
part of the so-called pre-salt region, discovered by Petrobras
in 2007, when it found crude trapped under a layer of salt below
the Atlantic seabed offshore Brazil.  Subsea 7 SA (SUBC)  in June said it experienced delays at Guara-Lula fields in Brazil during the second quarter because of
problems with the supply chain and adverse weather conditions.  BG and partners haven’t so far experienced any equipment
delivery delays for their projects in Brazil, Finlayson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in  London  at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  