-- BG Profit Declines 3% on Lower Output From Kazakhstan, Egypt
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-07-26T16:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/bg-profit-declines-3-on-lower-production-from-kazakhstan-egypt.html
BG Group Plc (BG/) , the U.K.’s third-largest natural-gas producer, said earnings dropped 3 percent in
the second quarter as output declined in  Kazakhstan  and Egypt.  Profit excluding disposals and one-time items slipped to
$986 million from $1 billion a year earlier, the Reading,
England-based company said today. That beat the $968.4 million
average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  In Kazakhstan, production was hurt by a planned shutdown of
the Karachaganak field for maintenance. In Egypt, BG saw gas-export volumes drop as reservoirs depleted and more supply was
diverted to the domestic market to meet demand.  While operations off Egypt haven’t been affected by recent
civil unrest, the crisis remains a “primary concern and will
continue to be so as the political, social and business
environment evolves,” Chief Executive Officer Chris Finlayson
said in a statement.  BG production fell 2.4 percent to 59.8 million barrels of
oil equivalent (657,000 barrels a day) in the quarter. Liquefied
natural gas deliveries shrank 17 percent to 2.4 million tons, it
said, citing declines in Egypt and lost cargoes in Nigeria amid
shipment disruptions. In Tanzania, BG and partner  Ophir Energy
Plc (OPHR)  raised gas resource estimates to 13 trillion cubic feet.  Share Performance  BG rose 0.4 percent to 1,190 pence in London trading. The
shares have gained 18 percent this year, following a record drop
at the end of October when BG warned of slower 2013 growth.  Finlayson presented BG’s new strategy on May 14, saying
profit will outpace production growth in the years ahead as LNG
trading expands. Today the CEO said that operating costs in 2013
will be about 50 cents a barrel higher than originally forecast.  “We expect near-term consensus earnings estimates to be
revised down to account for increased costs,” Brendan Warn, an
analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. in  London , said in an e-mailed note. “We continue to like BG on a medium to longer
term, with a cautious eye on the unfolding situation in Egypt.”  Net income rose to $1.1 billion in the second quarter from
$280 million a year earlier, when the company took a $1.3
billion impairment on its U.S. shale-gas assets after prices for
the commodity sank to a decade-low.  BG, the biggest U.K.-listed gas producer after  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  BP Plc (BP/) , this month appointed Simon Lowth of
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  as chief financial officer, replacing Fabio
Barbosa. Lowth will start in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 