-- Billionaire Lim Says Genting Hong Kong Plans to Raise Echo Stake
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-07-26T08:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/billionaire-lim-says-genting-hong-kong-plans-to-raise-echo-stake.html
Lim Kok Thay, the billionaire
chairman and chief executive officer of  Genting Bhd. (GENT) , comments
on his plan to boost its stake in  Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP) 
He spoke in an interview in Kuala Lumpur today.  Lim is  Malaysia ’s third-richest man with an estimated net
worth of $7.5 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index .  On the Echo Entertainment investment:  “ Australia , we bought a stake in there at a time when Mr.
 James Packer  invested first. And now of course Mr. Packer has
sold his stake in Echo. We have done nothing since our initial
stage, because we have to go through the regulatory process.  ‘‘Echo’s stake actually covers two regulators, the state of
New South Wales and Queensland. They may not take doubly as
long, because the two states have agreed that they will
cooperate to process our application, to allow us to go beyond
the 10 percent stake.’’  The application ‘‘has been in for a while. So we are just
patiently waiting. It’s a two-way process: they would ask for
more information and we would have to compile the information
and we would feed them with it and they would ask more
questions. My guess is it will go on for a while.’’  On the size of stake Genting wants in Echo:  ‘‘We have not formed any views yet, especially now that Mr.
Packer has sold his shares for the reason that he is working on
a competing casino, and the state seems certainly very keen to
see competition in New South Wales. All that are factors that as
an investor we would have to take into consideration. So we have
formed no views yet. We would cross that bridge after we’ve got
our license.’’  On Genting  Hong Kong ’s involvement in Echo:  ‘‘Genting Singapore decided not to do it. It’s really more
of who wants to do it. In this case, Genting Singapore doesn’t
think it fits into their plans and Genting Hong Kong thinks that
it does. Hence Genting Hong Kong bought a small stake. As you
can see, it’s a very cautious approach because we don’t want to
buy a whole lot and then find that we can’t go beyond 10. So
where we are at the moment? It’s what we called it, more of an
interested party that has a watching brief on that company.”  On James Packer’s Sydney plan:  “We are sitting and watching. He too, would have to go
through the various process that I’m sure the government would
set up to encourage investment to become real. Again, it will
take some time. The regulators have not told us where we are
yet, so we are waiting anyway. At the same time we are watching
what’s happening on that side of the equation as well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barry Porter in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  