-- Blankfein Says Lack of Business Risk Constrains U.S. Growth
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-07-26T02:07:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/blankfein-says-lack-of-business-risk-constrains-u-s-growth.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  said a lack of U.S. business
appetite for risk is constraining a recovery in the world’s
largest economy.  The “U.S. feels like it is recovering but I wouldn’t say
that it is quite healthy yet,” Blankfein told a business group
today in Sydney. “It is a very poor time to take risk and
without risk taking there is less growth.”  Economic growth in the U.S. will slow to 1.8 percent this
year from the 2.2 percent expansion in 2012, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Mergers and acquisitions,
while improved, haven’t fully recovered since the global
financial crisis, said Blankfein, whose firm topped the world
rankings for takeover advice in the first half of 2013.  Deal transactions worldwide reached about $490 billion in
the second quarter, up 3 percent from the previous three months.
They were down about 10 percent compared with the same period in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Global rule changes aimed at the finance industry are set
to continue as society opts for more regulation and less risk-taking following the global crisis, Blankfein said.  “When they see the consequence of it, they will decide
every year whether that is the right balance,” he said. “You
will have regulation and you will have re-regulation if it turns
out to be excessive.”  Courageous Bernanke  Blankfein said U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke showed courage and skill in responding to the financial
crisis. “So far he has done pretty good,” he said. “The U.S.
is very well off for having him in the seat.”  Bernanke will trim in September the Fed’s monthly bond
buying to $65 billion from the current pace of $85 billion,
according to half of the economists surveyed by Bloomberg in a
July 18-22 survey. Blankfein said he expects Fed policy will be
“very, very easy for a very long time.”  Bernanke’s second four-year term expires in January. While
he has declined to describe his plans, President  Barack Obama 
said last month the Fed chairman has stayed in his post “longer
than he wanted.”  The  U.S. economy  grew an annualised 1.8 percent in the
first quarter, less than originally estimated, as a payroll tax
increase hurt  consumer spending .  Europe Behind  Blankfein said pessimism lingers over  Europe . “I’d say
Europe is half a cycle behind the U.S.,” he said. “As a
consequence the pessimism hangs in the air a little bit more.”  The  International Monetary Fund  said on July 25 that the
euro area risks years of economic stagnation if it doesn’t
bolster its banks and employment. The Washington-based fund cut
its global economic growth forecast on July 9 for the fifth
consecutive time, saying a leveling off in  China  and the risk of
capital outflows present new challenges to nations that have
propelled the world economy.  Developing countries  will expand 5 percent this year, down
from a 5.3 percent forecast in April and an annual average of
6.6 percent during the past decade, according to the IMF.  While the so-called BRIC economies of  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India 
and China will probably continue to expand, it wouldn’t be
surprising if their growth was volatile, Blankfein said.  China is shifting from a goal of maximising growth at all
costs to one where there is a minimum pace of expansion while
the economy becomes more sustainable, he said.  “It is very, very probable and certain that the BRICs will
continue growing and will have the highest growth rate and give
the world much of its growth,” Blankfein said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  