-- BOE Seen Holding Policy as Carney Guidance Review Looms
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-07-26T15:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/boe-seen-holding-policy-as-carney-guidance-review-looms.html
The  Bank of England  will probably
leave its stimulus levels unchanged next week as Governor Mark Carney readies officials’ assessment of the merits of adding
forward guidance to their policy arsenal.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee will keep its
 bond-purchase program  at 375 billion pounds ($577 billion),
according to all but one of 42 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. Officials will also hold the  benchmark interest rate  at
a record low of 0.5 percent, a separate survey showed.  Policy makers maintained stimulus on July 4 after Carney’s
first MPC meeting. The reluctance to act may extend to a second
month after data this week showed the  economic recovery  gained
traction, while the BOE is preparing to publish its findings on
guidance when it presents new quarterly forecasts Aug. 7.  “It seems unlikely the BOE would muddy the waters just six
days ahead of the Aug. 7 announcement,” said Rob Wood, an
economist at Berenberg Bank in  London  and a former central bank
official. “The data on the month is unlikely to cause a
change.”  The bank will announce the decisions at noon in London on
Aug. 1. Minutes of the decision showing how officials voted will
be published Aug. 14.  At the July 4 MPC meeting, officials signaled they would
keep interest rates at a record low for longer than investors
had been betting. The analysis of providing forward guidance to
be published next month will include an assessment of
intermediate thresholds.  Data this week showed the economy expanded 0.6 percent in
the  second quarter , indicating the rebound is gaining traction.
With gross domestic product still 3.3 percent below its peak in
early 2008, officials are looking at ways to cement the
recovery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  