-- Oven on Boeing 787 Overheats During Air India Flight
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-07-26T09:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/boeing-787-oven-overheats-during-air-india-domestic-flight.html
Air  India  Ltd., the nation’s only
operator of  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787, said an oven for warming food on a
Dreamliner overheated during a domestic flight, prompting the
crew to take measures to contain smoke.  The oven’s overheating on the flight from New Delhi to the
eastern city of Kolkata on July 24 didn’t cause a fire, Air
India spokesman G. Prasada Rao said by telephone today. The
flight was not diverted because of the incident and the aircraft
continues to be in service, he said.  The latest incident involving a 787 comes amid U.S.
aviation regulators ordering inspections of emergency beacons
that were linked to a July 12 fire on a Dreamliner parked at
 London ’s Heathrow Airport. Air India, which has taken delivery
of seven of the jets, has begun removing the emergency locator
transmitters as a precautionary measure, according to an India
civil aviation ministry official.  India’s Directorate General of Civil Aviation is looking
into what may have caused the oven’s overheating, Arun Mishra,
who heads the regulator, said in a mobile phone text message. He
didn’t elaborate.  The Federal Aviation Administration yesterday issued an
order that United Continental Holdings Inc., the only U.S.
airline flying the Dreamliner, must complete the inspections of
emergency locator transmitters by Aug. 5. The blaze that broke
out on an Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise 787 parked at Heathrow
was traced to a  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  transmitter powered
by a lithium battery.  More Protection  Bhawna Singh, Boeing’s external spokeswoman in India,
didn’t immediately respond to a call and an e-mail seeking
comments on the Air India incident. The Mumbai-based carrier,
which has 20 more 787s on order, is adding new destinations
including Sydney and  Melbourne  using the Dreamliners.  In January, the global fleet of 787s was grounded because
of overheating of lithium-ion batteries on two of the aircraft.
The FAA cleared the jet to fly again after Boeing redesigned the
battery to include more protection around individual cells to
contain any overheating, a steel case to prevent fire and a tube
to vent any vapors outside the fuselage.  The incident on the Air India Dreamliner was earlier
reported by Mint newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  