-- Boeing Appoints Whittington as Engineering Chief of Dreamliner
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-07-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/boeing-appoints-whittington-as-engineering-chief-of-dreamliner.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  chose a new chief
engineer for the 787 Dreamliner program as the composite-plastic
jet continues to face glitches almost two years after it first
entered service.  Bob Whittington will take over as chief project engineer
for the 787, which was grounded for three months after lithium-ion batteries overheated on two Dreamliners in January and now
is being investigated for a July 12 fire on an empty plane
parked at  London ’s Heathrow airport.  Whittington, chief engineer on the twin-engine 777, will
replace Mike Sinnett, who will become vice president of product
development. Sinnett had been chief engineer of the 787 since
early 2010 and took the lead role in redesigning its lithium-ion
batteries, including a metal enclosure, which led U.S.
regulators to permit the plane to fly again in April. He served
on the 787 program since its inception, previously as chief
systems engineer and vice president of systems.  Larry Schneider, vice president of product development,
will take over as chief engineer of the 777, which is scheduled
to introduce a new version of the twin-engine plane this year,
known as the 777X. The job changes will take place over an
extended period of time, Mike Delaney, engineering vice
president for Boeing’s commercial airplane unit, said yesterday
in a memo announcing the shuffle.  No Perfect Time  “Some may ask why we are making moves of this magnitude at
this time,” Delaney said. “While there is never a perfect time
to make changes, by making these moves, we are giving all of
these individuals an opportunity to broaden their experience and
to apply their knowledge and capability to other roles or on
other programs.”  For the July 12 blaze on the Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise
787, U.K. investigators have pointed to an emergency locator
transmitter as the likely source. Regulators, including the U.S.
Federal Aviation Administration, have asked airlines to check
the beacon, made by  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  Two airlines
have reported crimped wires on the transmitter.  In another Dreamliner incident, Air India Ltd. said an oven
for warming food overheated on July 24 and began to emit smoke.
There was no fire and the plane wasn’t diverted during the
flight from New Delhi to the city of Kolkata.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Black in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ; 