-- BSkyB Sales Beat Estimates as Ways to Watch TV Expand
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-07-26T07:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/bskyb-full-year-sales-beat-estimates-as-ways-to-watch-tv-expand.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,
the U.K.’s largest pay-TV broadcaster, unveiled a box to link
televisions to the Internet and said it will buy back 500
million pounds ($770 million) of shares as full-year sales grew.  Revenue for the year rose 7 percent to 7.24 billion pounds.
That beat the 7.19 billion-pound average estimate, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, amortization and some items in the year ended June
30 rose 8 percent to 1.69 billion pounds, the Isleworth,
England-based company said in a statement today.  BSkyB relies on exclusive sports broadcasts and premium
movie channels to retain and win subscribers. The company has
14.8 million retail and wholesale customers, a 3.9 percent
increase from the year prior. BSkyB, about 39 percent owned by
Rupert Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox, unveiled its NOW TV set-top
box to connect a TV wirelessly to the Internet, in a bid to
reach millions of U.K. homes that don’t have a pay-TV service.  “The strength of our financial performance is a result of
our successful transition to more broadly-based growth and
sustained investment,” Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Darroch
said in the statement. The “consumer environment” would remain
challenging in the next year, he said.  The shares fell 1.9 percent to 833.50 pence as of 8:17 a.m.
in  London . BSkyB’s market value is 13.3 billion pounds.  Dividend Increase  BSkyB said today it was also increasing its full-year
dividend 18 percent to 30 pence a share.  The company, which offers TV, Internet and phone service
separately or bundled together, said customers are taking an
average of 2.8 paid-for products from Sky and average revenue
per user rose 29 pounds in the year to 577 pounds.  BSkyB is facing tougher competition on several fronts.  BT
Group Plc (BT/A) , the biggest fixed-line phone company in the U.K.,
unveiled sports channels in May free for BT broadband customers.
BT said yesterday some 500,000 households have ordered BT Sport,
set to debut on Aug. 1.  BSkyB has fought back, bringing on David Beckham to star in
a new Sky Sports ad campaign. It will also broadcast matches on
the first day of the Premier League’s soccer season next month
free to customers who don’t subscribe to its sports channels
already.  U.S. streaming service  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and Amazon.com Inc.’s
European movie Lovefilm are also edging into BSkyB’s home
country.  “We’ve seen an explosion in on-demand and mobile viewing
as more people connect their Sky boxes to broadband and watch TV
on laptops and mobile devices with Sky Go,” Darroch said.  Sky Go Extra, the company’s subscription service where
users can watch Sky on their mobiles and laptops, had 166,000
customers at the end of the year, five months after it started.
BSkyB also reported a “fivefold” increase in on-demand
downloads, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  