-- Canada Dollar Trades at Almost Five-Week High Before Fed Meeting
-- B y   J e f f   M a r s h a l l
-- 2013-07-26T21:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/canada-dollar-trades-at-almost-five-week-high-before-fed-meeting.html
The Canadian dollar traded at almost
a five-week high before the Federal Reserve meets next week amid
speculation policy makers will maintain monetary stimulus in the
nation’s biggest trade partner.  The currency rose for a third week as investors prepare for
next week’s Federal Open Market Committee where Chairman Ben. S.
Bernanke is expected to maintain the current level of monetary
stimulus, according to a Bloomberg survey. A report next week is
forecast to show gross domestic product  grew  0.3 percent in May
after expanding 0.1 percent in April.  “The focus for the  Canada  dollar is on the events next
week, so consolidation should prevail,” said Greg T. Moore, a
currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank. “Markets are
looking for anything that could shed light on what the Fed’s
thinking is on QE.”  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, was little changed at C$1.0278
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One loonie buys 97.30 U.S.
cents. The Canadian currency gained 0.4 percent yesterday and
touched C$1.0255, the strongest level since June 19. It has
advanced 0.9 percent on the week.  “Dollar Canada has traded in a fairly narrow range in the
absence of domestic economic news,”  Jack Spitz , managing
director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada (NA)  said by
phone from Toronto.  Moving Averages  The Canadian currency has traded stronger than its 50-day
average versus the dollar since July 22. The currency also
touched its 100-day moving average for the third consecutive
day. Breaching moving averages signal to some traders a move has
momentum to continue.  Futures traders decreased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will decline against the U.S. dollar, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was
16,758 on July 23, compared with net shorts of 20,043 a week
earlier.  Government bonds rose, as the yield on the 10-year
benchmark fell one basis point to 2.45 percent. The 1.5 percent
note due June 2023 gained 11 cents to C$91.76.  Oil Correlation  Crude oil futures fell 0.8 percent to $104.64 per barrel in
New York. The asset is near its lowest correlation with the
Canadian dollar, considered a commodity currency, in more than a
month.  “Since June, the correlation with oil has fallen off a
cliff,” Moore said. “It fits with historical patterns where
strong crude rallies usually corresponds with a deterioration of
the correlation.”  Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, has remained above $100
since July 2, the longest stretch since May 2012.  The loonie has risen 0.2 percent this month against nine
developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The yen fell 2.5 percent and the
euro is down 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Marshall in New York at 
 jmarshall75@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  