-- Celestica Rises to Two-Year High as Profit Tops Estimates
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-07-26T20:38:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/celestica-rises-to-two-year-high-as-profit-tops-estimates.html
Celestica Inc. (CLS) , the Canadian
electronics manufacturer, rose to a two-year  high  after second-quarter profit topped analysts’ estimates.  Celestica rose 6.3 percent to C$10.40 at the end of trading
in Toronto after increasing as much as 9.4 percent, its biggest
one-day gain in 15 months.  The Toronto-based company reported earnings of 21 cents a
share, beating the 17-cent average of 13 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue was $1.5 billion, beating the
estimate of $1.44 billion.  “The revenue upside was driven in large part by the
communications segment,” said Thanos Moschopoulos, an analyst
at Bank of Montreal, in a note to investors. “Management noted
that it saw strong demand from several customers kick-in toward
the end of the quarter.”  Celestica forecast adjusted earnings of 17 cents to 23
cents a share for the third quarter, according to the statement
today. “Despite the challenging economic environment, we are
projecting continued growth,” the company said in the
statement.  The former maker of smartphones for Waterloo-based
 BlackBerry Ltd. (BB)  has shifted its focus to contracts in the so-called diversified category, which includes defense, industrial
and semiconducter customers.  Chief Executive Officer Craig Muhlhauser said in an
interview in April that he realized he had to pull back the
company’s dependence on BlackBerry at the end of 2011, when the
Canadian company was struggling to compete with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
Samsung Electronics Co.  Celestica increased 31 percent this year, compared with a
17 percent gain for an  index  of information technology companies
listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  