-- China’s Greenland Buys Stake in Los Angeles Project
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-26T21:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/china-s-greenland-enters-u-s-in-1-billion-los-angeles-project.html
Shanghai Greenland Group Co., the
developer building one of China’s tallest towers, is investing
$1 billion in a downtown  Los Angeles  project, the latest Chinese
builder to venture overseas.  Shanghai Greenland signed an agreement to acquire a stake
in the project from California State Teachers’ Retirement
System, the state-owned Chinese developer said in an e-mailed
statement. It is the biggest deal of its kind by a Chinese
developer in the U.S., Shanghai Greenland said.  Chinese developers are expanding overseas as the government
maintains curbs on residential property at home to damp price
gains.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the biggest homebuilder listed on
mainland exchanges, said in February it entered a residential-property venture in  San Francisco , while  Xinyuan Real Estate Co. (XIN) 
in September said it was developing a New York project.  “We are extending the  China  market abroad, and we
prioritize our investment to countries where Chinese immigrants,
students and tourists like the most,” Zhang Yuliang, chairman
of Shanghai Greenland, said in the statement.  Michael Sicilia, a Calstrs spokesman, said the transaction
took place this week and declined to comment on the reason the
pension fund sold the stake. Christy Ingle, a spokeswoman for
 CBRE Group Inc. (CBG) , the  listing  brokerage, declined to comment on
the sale.  The 25,600 square-meter (275,450-square-foot) Metropolis
project -- on Eighth Street near the L.A. Live development that
includes the Nokia Theatre and Ritz Carlton -- will have hotels,
offices, apartments and luxury homes. Construction is expected
to start this year, Shanghai Greenland said.  Investor Demand  Demand from overseas investors has been rising in  downtown
Los Angeles .  MPG Office Trust Inc. (MPG)  in June sold the U.S. Bank
Tower, the West Coast’s tallest office building, to Singapore-based  Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd. (OUE)  for $367.5 million.  The Ritz-Carlton, located on the top floors of a JW
Marriott hotel, has sold 85 percent of its 224 housing units,
Jack Skelley, a Ritz-Carlton Residences spokesman, said on June
21. The remaining units probably will be sold by the end of the
year, with “a huge share” going to Asian buyers, he said.  New York developer Joseph Moinian last month said he is
marketing downtown Los Angeles land planned for a high-end
retail, hotel and residential project.  Shanghai Greenland, the closely held company set up in
1992, said in 2010 that it will invest 30 billion  yuan  ($4.8
billion) to develop a 606-meter skyscraper in the central city
of Wuhan. China’s tallest building currently is the 492-meter
Shanghai World Financial Center.  Sydney Project  The developer said yesterday that its A$480 million ($446
million) redevelopment project in Sydney announced in March has
obtained approval from the Chinese regulators and sales will
start this year. Zhang expected the company’s new overseas
investments this year to be 10 billion yuan, according to the
statement.  Calstrs, the second-biggest U.S. pension fund, managed
about $165.8 billion of assets as of June 30, according to its
website.  Vanke and Tishman Speyer Properties LP, the owner of New
York’s Rockefeller Center, are planning two residential towers
in San Francisco that will cost $620 million,  Rob Speyer ,
Tishman’s president and co-chief executive officer, said in
February.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  