-- China Sets Timeline for Resolving Bo Xilai Scandal
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-26T02:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/china-sets-timeline-for-resolving-bo-xilai-scandal.html
China  set a timeline for the
prosecution of disgraced Politburo member Bo Xilai, moving to
resolve a scandal that overshadowed a once-in-a-decade transfer
of power and tested the unity of new Communist Party leaders.  Bo was charged with corruption, abuse of power and using
his government positions to take an “extremely huge” amount of
bribes, the official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday. The
indictment was brought by the Jinan prosecutor’s office, Xinhua
said, signaling the eastern Chinese city will host the trial.
Under Chinese law, a court will probably deliver a judgment
within a month.  Bo’s downfall, the most serious political scandal in two
decades, came in the midst of a leadership transition that
brought Xi Jinping to power in November. It has taken Communist
Party leaders, who tried to portray Bo’s actions as an
aberration, almost a year from the time they expelled him to
announce his indictment.  “An agreement has been reached and they will need to be
confident that this will hold before putting Bo on trial,”
Steve Tsang, director of the China Policy Institute at the
University of Nottingham in  England , said in an e-mail. “The
risk management by Xi and company must include an assessment
that the risk is low before indicting Bo and thus setting the
train in motion for the trial.”  ‘Eight Immortals’  As the son of former Vice Premier  Bo Yibo , one of the
“eight immortals” of the Communist Party, Bo, like President
Xi, belongs to the princeling class of second-generation
officials whose families are tied together through decades of
shared experiences, alliances and patronage. The indictment
follows the conviction of Bo’s wife, Gu Kailai, last August for
murdering British businessman Neil Heywood after a one-day trial
that produced a suspended death sentence.  That the leaders have decided to go ahead with the
prosecution signals they are confident enough to try Bo, who won
millions of supporters with populist policies in southwestern
China’s Chongqing municipality that aimed at fighting poverty
and emphasized the “red” songs and slogans of the early years
of Communist rule.  “Defendant  Bo Xilai  used his official state position to
seek benefits, illegally accepted an extremely huge amount of
property from others, embezzled a huge amount of public money,
and abused his power, resulting in huge losses to the nation and
the people,” Xinhua reported, citing the indictment. “The
circumstances are extremely serious.”  Crime Crackdown  A former commerce minister and governor of northeastern
China’s Liaoning province, Bo, 64, rose to prominence for his
moves in Chongqing to boost social spending and state-led
financing. His crackdown on organized crime, called “da hei,”
or “strike black,” was a cornerstone of his tenure. Bo won
praise from China’s top leaders, including Xi, who  flocked to
Chongqing  to study his policies.  Rare for Chinese politicians, Bo attracted admirers across
the country. Supporters unfurled a banner in Chinese that read
“Secretary Bo, corrupt and incompetent officials envy you, the
people love you,” outside a courthouse in Guiyang on Jan. 28,
where some media reports said his trial would be held.  Once seen as a possible candidate for the ruling Politburo
Standing Committee, Bo was expelled from the Communist Party in
September. The party said he took bribes throughout his career
and abused his power in the homicide case against his wife,
Xinhua reported at the time. He also had improper sexual
relations with “a number” of women, Xinhua reported.  ‘Final Nail’  “Chinese politics is not for the faint hearted,” Kerry
Brown, a former U.K. diplomat and a professor of China studies
at the  University of Sydney , said in an e-mail. “This, I guess
they hope, will be the final nail in the coffin,” he said,
referring to the indictment.  The party is seeking to shore up its legitimacy as its new
leaders tackle corruption, including sex tapes featuring senior
officials and revelations of cadres living opulent lifestyles.
For Xi, also the son of a top Communist leader, fighting
corruption is essential if the party is to maintain its 64-year
hold on power.  “The preponderance of facts tell us that the more severe
the corruption problem becomes, it will ultimately lead the
party and the nation to perish!” Xi told members of the ruling
Politburo on Nov. 17 in remarks published in the Communist
Party’s official People’s Daily. “We must be vigilant!”  People’s Daily  The People’s Daily published a page one commentary today on
Bo’s case, emphasizing that the prosecution shows the new
leaders are serious about cracking down on corruption even in
the highest levels of government.  “People will be held accountable and severely punished if
they break the law, no matter who they are, no matter whether
their power is great or small, no matter whether their positions
are high or low,” the unsigned commentary said.  Since Bo’s expulsion, the Communist Party has been hit by
more scandals. On Jan. 24, Xinhua reported that police in
Chongqing cracked a criminal ring accused of hiring women to
seduce local officials and then secretly filming the encounters
to blackmail them.  Murder Plot  One official caught on tape having sex with a woman, former
district-level party secretary Lei Zhengfu, was sentenced to 13
years in jail in June for taking bribes. Former railway minister
Liu Zhijun was given a suspended death sentence earlier this
month for accepting bribes and abuse of power.  Bo was ousted as party secretary of Chongqing in March 2012
and accused of violating party discipline after his former
police chief fled to a U.S. consulate with evidence that Gu
helped plot Heywood’s murder, after they clashed over financial
issues, Xinhua reported last year. Gu has since been sentenced
to death with a two-year reprieve, while the police chief, Wang Lijun, was given 15 years in prison in September for trying to
cover up the killing.  Bo’s ouster, the party’s biggest crisis since the 1989
Tiananmen Square protests, has focused attention on the
accumulation of wealth by the politically connected. The
extended families of Bo and Gu, for example, built a fortune of
at least $136 million in company shares and property, according
to regulatory and corporate filings.  Party Plenum  The announcement means the trial should be over before the
party’s  Central Committee  meets later this year at a so-called
plenum that may announce new economic policies.  “It would be desirable for the Party to get the trial out
of the way before the Plenum,” Tsang said. “Such a trial is,
by the standards of the Chinese Communist Party, much too
important to be left to the court.”  Bo is the third member of the elite Politburo to be
prosecuted in the past two decades. Former Beijing party chief
Chen Xitong, who died last month, was imprisoned for corruption
following his 1995 Politburo expulsion and former Shanghai party
boss  Chen Liangyu  was sentenced to 18 years in prison in 2008
for taking bribes.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  