-- China Ships Ply Disputed Waters as Japan Mulls Marine Forces
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-07-26T08:11:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/china-ships-ply-disputed-waters-as-japan-mulls-marine-forces.html
Ships from  China ’s new coast guard
confronted Japanese vessels in disputed waters as  Japan ’s
 Defense Ministry  said the country should bolster marine forces
and consider a first-strike capability to deal with threats.  Four Chinese vessels ordered Japanese ships to leave waters
around disputed islands known as Diaoyu in China and Senkaku in
Japan, China’s State Oceanic Administration said on its website.
China’s strengthened coast guard began operations on July 22,
and the action appeared to mark an escalation as previous
maneuvers generally involved three vessels.  “I can see the China Coast Guard being able to draw upon
many more ships than before,” said Gary Li, a senior analyst
for IHS Maritime in Beijing, adding that the increase in
capabilities brings China onto an “equal footing” with Japan.  The incident came just as Japan’s Defense Ministry released
a report recommending that the country expand its fledgling
marine force, start using drones to patrol its waters and
consider developing the ability to strike foreign targets. The
report partially echoes proposals put forward in May by the
ruling  Liberal Democratic Party , although it contains fewer
specifics and avoids the question of whether Japan should let
its armed forces defend allies.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe dropped the defense plan approved
by the prior administration and is seeking to create a more
robust one by the end of the year. Abe, who took office in
December, backed Japan’s first defense budget increase in 11
years. Scope for change is limited by a restricted budget in the
world’s most-indebted country and by caution on the part of his
Buddhist-backed coalition ally New Komeito.  Spending Constrained  One of the most contentious proposals is to what extent
Japan could obtain the ability to preemptively strike against an
aggressor.  Proposals for a stronger amphibious force are being
prompted by unease over China’s activities around the
uninhabited East China Sea islands that Japan nationalized in
September. Chinese and Japanese ships and planes have been
tailing one another around the uninhabited islets ever since.  In one of the latest incidents, Japanese fighter planes
were dispatched after a Chinese military aircraft was observed
for the first time passing between the southern Japanese islands
of Okinawa and Miyakojima on July 24. The jet was in
international airspace.  Korean Missiles  The capability to attack an enemy base has been mooted for
years in Japan, amid concerns over  North Korea  launching a
series of ballistic missiles and testing nuclear weapons, most
recently in February. Japan already has a system of ship and
land-based interceptors that can be used to shoot down a
missile.  The ministry’s report refers only to a need to “strengthen
its capacity to deal with” the threat of ballistic missile
attack. Kiyoshi Serizawa of the ministry’s Defense Policy
Division told reporters this would include considering obtaining
the capacity for an overseas strike.  Other views, probably including those of New Komeito, will
be taken into account before the new defense plan is completed,
Serizawa said.  Fresh from a decisive victory in an upper house election on
July 21, Abe is currently on a tour of  Malaysia ,  Singapore  and
the  Philippines . He told reporters in Singapore today he wants a
“common recognition to make sure that the Asia Pacific region
is a region that is ruled by law and not by coercion and
intimidation.”  Japan in 2002 established a small marines-style force of
about 660 troops charged with defending the islands that dot the
ocean between it and  Taiwan .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  