-- China Stocks Fall for 3rd Day; Material, Technology Shares Drop
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-07-26T07:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/china-s-stock-futures-drop-signaling-losses-for-major-indexes.html
China ’s stocks fell for a third day
after the government ordered cuts to production capacity in 19
industries, while technology companies extended a slump after
reaching the highest valuations in more than two years.  BBMG Corp. (2009) , Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth Hi-Tech
Co., and  Shandong Chenming Paper Holdings Ltd. (000488)  slid at least 1.5
percent after they were cited by the Ministry of Industry and
 Information Technology  in a list of companies that must curb
capacity this year. BOE Technology Group Co. slumped for a
second day after the company said it planned a share sale that
may be China’s largest private placement.  The Shanghai Composite slipped 0.5 percent to 2,010.85 at
the close, paring this week’s gains to 0.9 percent. The
technology index on the CSI 300 index retreated 1.3 percent
after dropping 3.5 percent yesterday. Investors need to be
cautious of stocks with smaller market values because of
valuations, while the government order shows industrial
overcapacity remains a problem that could drag down the economy,
said Deng Wenyuan, an analyst at Soochow Securities Co.  The government directive “shows it’s a problem that has
not been resolved,” Deng said. “Investors have to be wary” of
small caps, he said.  The CSI 300 Index fell 0.6 percent, while the Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong 
slid less than 0.1 percent. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index
added 2 percent in  New York  yesterday.  ‘Necessary Pain’  BBMG, a cement company, fell 3.3 percent to 4.93 yuan.
Baotou Steel dropped 1.5 percent to 23.42 yuan and Shandong
Chenming Paper declined 2.3 percent to 3.77 yuan.  Cement, steelmaking, ferroalloys, electrolytic aluminum,
copper smelting, cement production and papermaking are among
industries required to cut excess capacity, MIIT said in a
statement yesterday. Excess capacity must be eliminated by the
end of the year, it said.  “This detailed list shows the government is serious in its
efforts to restructure the economy and is prepared to tolerate
the necessary pain.” Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong, wrote in a note yesterday.
“This reinforces our view that aggressive policy stimulus is
unlikely in 2012 and that growth should trend down.”  People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said that
downward pressure on the economy is “relatively big,”
according to an article he wrote in the People’s Daily today. He
reiterated the nation will continue a prudent monetary policy
and keep a “reasonable” amount of  money supply  and credit. The
People’s Daily is published by  China’s (SHCOMP)  communist party.  Trading Drops  “The new leadership appears focused on implementing a
strong foundation to support stable long-term economic growth,”
said Brendan Ahern, New York-based managing director of Krane
Fund Advisers LLC. Krane has started an exchange-traded fund
that tracks companies that will benefit from China’s Five-Year
Plan including technology and health care.  A measure of technology stocks in the CSI 300 dropped 1.3
percent for a two-day loss of 4.8 percent, the most since July
8. It’s still the best performer this year with a 32 percent
gain, followed by telecom and health-care. BOE declined 1.4
percent today, adding to yesterday’s 8.4 percent slump. The
company said it would sell as much as 46 billion  yuan  ($7.5
billion) in shares to investors to finance expansion.  The  company , with a market value of about 29 billion yuan
as of yesterday, will issue between 9.5 billion and 22.4 billion
shares. At the top end, that would surpass Bank of
Communications Co.’s $4.68 billion sale announced in August 2012
to become the largest private placement of shares traded on a
Chinese exchange, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Trading volumes on the Shanghai Composite were 23 percent
lower than the 30-day average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The index has fallen 11 percent this year, compared
with a 13 percent gain for the MSCI All-Country World Index.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  