-- China Wealth Fund CIC Posts 10.6% Return as Equity Rally
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-26T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/china-wealth-fund-reports-10-6-return-amid-global-equity-rally.html
China  Investment Corp., created to
manage part of the nation’s $3.5 trillion of foreign-currency
reserves, reported a 10.6 percent return on its overseas
investments last year as global equities rallied.  Net income at the $575 billion sovereign wealth fund, which
also holds the government’s stakes in China’s biggest banks,
rose to $77.4 billion from $48.4 billion in 2011, Beijing-based
CIC said in its annual report yesterday. Its overseas investment
returns compared with a 4.3 percent loss in 2011 amid declines
in global commodity prices.  CIC, which this month named Ding Xuedong chairman, has
sought to burnish its performance as the fund makes the case for
more money to be placed under its management. That comes as the
State Administration of Foreign Exchange, the agency overseeing
day-to-day management of China’s reserves, has begun
diversifying away from U.S. Treasuries and seeking investments
in assets from equities to property.  “That was a relatively big number for a single year,” Li
Jie, head of the foreign-exchange-reserve-research center at the
Central University of Finance and Economics in Beijing, said of
CIC’s overseas return before the announcement. The withdrawal of
monetary stimulus by the U.S. “may have a little bit of impact
on CIC’s short-term returns due to the pressure on asset prices,
but it won’t change CIC’s long-term investment behavior.”  New Capital  CIC President Gao Xiqing told the official Xinhua News
Agency last month that the sovereign fund’s 2012 overseas return
had been about 11 percent. Gao said the fund had proven that a
diversified investment approach was better than solely buying
treasuries and that CIC was able to manage more money because it
had yet to reach an optimal size.  The MSCI World Index jumped 13 percent last year as efforts
by global central banks to spur growth boosted equities, helping
then CIC Chairman  Lou Jiwei  reverse losses before he became the
nation’s finance minister in March.  The fund “built up” positions in public equities with its
new capital last year, and boosted real estate, infrastructure,
agriculture other assets, generating steady returns in its long-term portfolio and producing “good results,” according to the
report. It also conducted a review of all direct investment
projects and exited some private-equity investments, it said
without providing details.  CIC set up unit China Investment Corporation International
Co. in 2011 to manage its overseas investments. The unit had
received about $49 billion of capital from the government since
then, according to yesterday’s report. CIC used up almost all
its initial $200 billion in 2010.  Subdued Recovery  Ding, 53, a former deputy finance minister, moved from the
State Council, where he was a deputy secretary-general, to take
over the running of the fund after Lou was appointed to new
Premier  Li Keqiang ’s government.  “Going forward, the subdued global economic recovery,
compounded by rising protectionism, will cast a prolonged shadow
over the outlooks of global financial markets,” Ding said in
the report. “As major developed economies embark on tapering
their quantitative easing programs, volatility of global
financial markets will be further increased, creating new
challenges for institutional investors.”  CIC achieved 5.02 percent in annualized return on its
overseas investments through 2012, the company said in the
report. That was “above the medium level” among sovereign
wealth funds and reached a target set by its board, Xinhua News
Agency reported last month, citing Gao, the fund’s president.
The performance compares to the 8.3 percent return the nation’s
1.1 trillion  yuan  ($179 billion)  pension fund , which mainly
invests in domestic markets, delivered since its creation in
2000.  Asset Allocation  Temasek Holdings Pte,  Singapore ’s state-owned investment
company, said July 4 that assets rose to a record S$215 billion
($170 billion) in the year ended March as surging stock markets
drove an almost sixfold increase in returns. Total shareholder
return, which includes dividends, widened to 8.9 percent from
1.5 percent in the previous year.  The U.S. accounted for 49.2 percent of CIC’s diversified
equity investments as of Dec. 31, while  emerging markets  made up
23 percent, report showed. Financials made up 22.3 percent of
such holdings, up from 19 percent in 2011.  Public equities rose by 7 percentage points last year to 32
percent of its overseas portfolio, while fixed-income securities
fell to 19.1 percent from 21 percent, CIC said. Absolute-return
investments rose to 12.7 percent.  CIC’s Future  The fund last year decided to base its  asset allocation  on
the model of endowment funds after reviewing experiences of
institutional investors, it said without elaborating. The
company also chose to build a “mid-term policy portfolio” to
improve stability and flexibility of its holdings, adding a new
aspect to its asset management framework that also includes
“strategic” and “tactical” allocations, according to the
report.  The fund, created in 2007 with an initial $200 billion from
the Ministry of Finance, had $22.3 billion in cash and bank
deposits as of Dec. 31, up from $20.1 billion in the year
earlier, according to the report.  The sovereign fund may find it more difficult to obtain
funds going forward as slowing  economic growth  in China eases
concerns about rapid accumulation of  reserves  and raises the
prospect of declines in the holdings.  SAFE, as the central bank agency managing most of the
nation’s $3.5 trillion in foreign reserves is known, announced
in January a new office to deliver on a government mandate for
more “innovative” use of the holdings, as it looks to invest
in riskier asset classes that CIC was tasked with.  “After five years of experiment, it’s now possible to see
whether what was expected from CIC is actually achievable,”
said Li. “Going forward, CIC’s future may be replaced by part
of SAFE’s funds.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  