-- Chinese Coal Port Said to Weigh Moving Shanghai IPO to Hong Kong
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2013-07-26T18:05:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/chinese-coal-port-said-to-weigh-moving-shanghai-ipo-to-hong-kong.html
Qinhuangdao Port Co. ,  China ’s
biggest coal port, is preparing an $800 million initial public
offering in  Hong Kong  after waiting for more than a year to sell
shares in  Shanghai , said three people with knowledge of the
matter.  The company, based in  Hebei province , may cancel plans to
sell shares in mainland China, where regulators have stopped
allowing IPOs as they review listing rules, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the information is private.
Qinhuangdao Port may start marketing the offering in Hong Kong
in the fourth quarter, one of the people said.  Chinese regulators will resume approving IPOs only after
revising rules on underwriting and disclosure, Jiang Xiangyang,
an official at the China Securities Regulatory Commission, said
June 25 at a press conference in Shanghai. More than 700
companies are waiting for approval from the regulator, after
filing applications for IPOs in Shanghai or Shenzhen.  Qinhuangdao Port, controlled by the Hebei provincial
government, posted sales of 5.9 billion  yuan  ($962 million) in
2011, up 12 percent from 2010, according to a  filing  to the
China Securities Regulatory Commission in September. Revenue
reached 3.1 billion yuan in the first half of 2012, the filing
shows without providing a year-earlier figure.  The company said it planned to sell as many as 1.4 billion
shares in a Shanghai IPO, as it needed 4.8 billion yuan to fund
projects, buy equipment and repay debt. Two calls yesterday to
the company’s head office in Qinhuangdao city weren’t answered.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  