-- Backers of Planned Tallest Building Say China Approval Obtained
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-26T03:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/china-s-world-tallest-building-says-it-has-permission-to-build.html
The Chinese builder who is planning
to erect the world’s tallest building in  China  said it has
permission for the project after a media report that it hasn’t
received approval.  Broad Group , a maker of air-conditioners based in the
central city of Changsha, held a ceremony for the Sky City
project on July 20 and has started preparations to build, though
it hasn’t started construction yet, Zhu Linfang, a company
spokeswoman, said in a phone interview today. The plan has not
yet been approved, China’s official Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday, citing an unidentified local official.  Broad Group’s plan to complete the 838-meter (2,749-foot)
skyscraper by April 2014 remained unchanged, Zhu said. The
building, if completed, would overtake the 828-meter Burj
Khalifa in Dubai, the world’s tallest building.  “All the procedures we followed comply with the
government’s laws and regulations,” Zhu said. “We haven’t
started the ground breaking and will make it public by the
time.”  The company will assemble the floors and ceilings in its
factories and then hoist them into place at the construction
site, Tang Ying, general manager of the marketing center at
Broad Sustainable Building Co., the unit that is building the
skyscraper, said in an interview in  Shanghai  in September. That
will allow Broad Group to complete the building faster.  Chinese urban planners have criticized the safety of Broad
Group’s plan for the building, China Daily reported in November.
It will include housing for 4,000 families in apartments from
the 16th to 180th floors, the newspaper said.  The world’s tallest building under construction is the 1
kilometer (0.6215 mile) Kingdom Tower in Jeddah, while the 492-meter World Financial Center in Shanghai is the tallest tower in
China and the fourth in the world, according to the Chicago-based  Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat .  China completed 23 buildings taller than 200 meters in
2011, more than any other country, according to the council.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  