-- Ciris Gets Asia Pacific Backing to Convert Coal to Gas
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-07-26T23:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/ciris-gets-asia-pacific-capital-backing-to-convert-coal-to-gas.html
Ciris Energy Inc., a closely held
U.S. company that converts coal to natural gas, raised $15
million from Asia Pacific Capital of  Hong Kong  in a Series C
funding round to commercialize its technology.  The preferred stock offering follows a similar, $10 million
investment in February from Asia Pacific Capital, Ciris said
today in a statement.  The company developed a technique to  inject  nutrients into
buried coal-seams to stimulate naturally occurring
microorganisms that consume coal and emit methane. The process
converts low-rank coal into more valuable products such as
methane and industrial chemicals, according to Centennial,
Colorado-based Ciris’s website.  Ciris is developing an underground project in  Wyoming ’s
Powder River Basin and plans to demonstrate next year a process
it’s developing that works above ground, after coal is mined,
Chief Executive Officer Jay Short said in an interview. He’s
evaluating additional project opportunities in the U.S.,
Australia and  Asia , including China and  Indonesia .  Asia has “major challenges in terms of dealing with coal,
and they need new energy sources,” Short said. Low-rank coals,
such as those present in Wyoming, emit more pollutants when
burned, he said. “There’s a large advantage to converting them
instead to natural gas. It’s much cleaner.”  Ciris expects that a project producing gas from a 640-acre
coal-seam may last for 20 years and generate as much as $250
million in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, Short said. Its 160-acre project in Wyoming will
begin commercial production next year, he said.  The company also is backed by  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Braemar
Energy Ventures, Rho Ventures LLC, Triplepoint Capital LLC,
Lighthouse Capital Partners Inc., Khosla Ventures and Energy
Technology Ventures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  