-- Citigroup Says Summers Working as Consultant Since at Least 2012
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-07-26T22:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/citigroup-says-summers-working-as-consultant-since-at-least-2012.html
Larry Summers, the former Treasury
secretary in the running to replace  Ben S. Bernanke  as Federal
Reserve chairman, is a paid consultant for  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Summers, 58, has worked for Citigroup since at least 2012,
according to Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for the New
York-based lender. She declined to say how much compensation he
receives from the bank, the third-biggest in the U.S. The Fed is
one of the primary regulators of the nation’s lenders.  “In addition to speaking at internal meetings, we engage
Mr. Summers for small private-bank client and institutional
client meetings,” Romero-Apsilos said in an e-mailed statement.
“He provides insight on a broad range of topics including the
global and domestic economy.”  The Citigroup tie could fuel opposition to Summers, who was
an advocate for financial deregulation before the banking system
almost collapsed in 2008. He was a key adviser to President
 Barack Obama  in the wake of the crisis, weighing the fate of
U.S. banks as head of the National Economic Council. Citigroup
needed a $45 billion bailout, which it later repaid.  The Wall Street Journal reported the arrangement earlier
today and said Summers also works for Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., the
D.E. Shaw & Co. hedge fund and the Andreessen Horowitz LLC
venture capital firm.  Kelly Friendly, a spokeswoman for Summers, and Nasdaq’s
Joseph Christinat said they couldn’t comment.  Obama hasn’t named a potential successor to Bernanke, whose
tenure expires at the end of January. Summers and Fed Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen  are the leading candidates to replace
Bernanke, according to a former top government official in
contact with the White House.  Summers served as Treasury secretary under President  Bill
Clinton .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  