-- Clearing Next Greek Payment Leads to Talk of 2014 Options
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-07-26T14:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/clearing-next-greek-payment-leads-to-talk-of-2014-options.html
No sooner did European creditors
plug one hole in  Greece ’s finances than they started fretting
over the next as the 3 1/2-year tussle between the  Athens 
government and its rescuers looked set to drag into 2014.  Euro-area governments today cleared the release of 2.5
billion euros ($3.3 billion), part of 5.8 billion euros in
funding to tide Greece past  Germany ’s Sept. 22 elections that
will determine the course of the  crisis management . Less than
two hours later, a European Union official was discussing how to
fill a 3.8 billion-euro gap expected in 2014.  Options include tapping unused funds earmarked for Greek
banks, having Greece venture back into the short-term  bond
market  in late 2014, or having creditor governments put in more
money, the official told reporters in Brussels on condition of
anonymity because he’s not an authorized spokesman.  Greece’s financial fate has become entwined with German
politics, with Chancellor Angela Merkel campaigning for a third
term on the promise that Germany won’t write off any of the
loans made to Greece since the debt crisis broke out in 2010.  Greek 10-year bonds yield 842 basis points more than German
bonds, compared to 1,509 basis points before European creditors
promised to ease bailout terms on Nov. 27, 2012.  European creditors, led by Germany, need to plug next
year’s hole because the  International Monetary Fund  insists on
seeing a 12-month guarantee of Greece’s financing in order to
continue with its own lending.  The gap opened up because European national central banks
balked at a tentative November 2012 understanding to roll over
their portfolios of  Greek bonds  after deciding that such a
concession would amount to an illegal subsidy for Greece.  Greek Banks  So far, Greek banks have drawn on 40 billion euros of the
50 billion euros budgeted for them in the rescue program. It
won’t be known until early 2014 whether the banks need the
remaining 10 billion euros, making it hard to retarget that
amount before then, the official said.  While the missing sum isn’t enormous and finding it will be
feasible, the official declined to speculate on the ultimate
solution. A regular review mission to Greece by European
Commission,  European Central Bank  and IMF experts will tackle
the question in September.  Greece’s spending and revenue are in line with forecasts,
making it possible that the government will post a  budget 
surplus when factoring out interest payments on its debt in
2013, the official said.  Primary Surplus  Such a primary surplus is the condition for Greece to
obtain “further measures and assistance” promised by European
creditors in  November 2012 . The German view is that those steps
won’t include a writedown of official loans, Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said July 18 in Athens.  In any case, the discussion will be put off until April
2014, when the European statistics office certifies whether
Greece had a primary surplus in 2013, the official said.  A German parliament committee has until noon July 29 to
raise objections to today’s approval of the 2.5 billion-euro
loan from the  European Financial Stability Facility . It will be
topped by 1.5 billion euros in profits from Greek bond holdings
that European central banks will transfer back to Athens.
Another 1.8 billion euros is due from the IMF, which meets July
29 to approve its Greek loan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  