-- CNP’s First-Half Profit Rose 7.9% on Brazilian Premium Growth
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-07-26T07:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/cnp-s-first-half-profit-rose-7-9-on-brazilian-premium-growth.html
CNP Assurances (CNP)  SA,  France ’s largest
life insurer, said first-half profit advanced 7.9 percent,
helped by premium growth in  Brazil .  Net income climbed to 583 million euros ($774 million) from
540 million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based insurer said
in a statement today. CNP shares rose as much as 3 percent.  Premiums increased 5.6 percent to 14 billion euros, helped
by a “sharp rise” at its Brazilian pensions and home-loan
insurance business, according to a presentation on the company’s
website. Brazil is CNP’s second-largest market, with first-half
premiums up 22 percent to 1.57 billion euros.  “Insurance is gaining clout in this country in a very
important way,” even as the economy slows down, Chief Financial
Officer Antoine Lissowski said on a call with journalists today,
without disclosing the company’s growth targets in Brazil. CNP
saw “no significant impact on sales” from last month’s street
protests in the country.  More than 1 million Brazilians took to the streets in the
largest cities,  Sao Paulo  and  Rio de Janeiro , last month,
voicing discontent over bus fare increases, corruption, the
quality of public services and government spending priorities.  CNP  rose  2.9 percent to 12.81 euros by 9:41 a.m. in Paris,
bringing the gain this year to 10 percent. That compares with
the 16 percent  increase  in the Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance
Index, which tracks 28 companies.  CNP’s first-half premiums in France fell 3.8 percent to
10.38 billion euros, it said. The French economy has barely
grown over the past two years and life-insurance policies faced
competition from tax-free bank savings.  The insurer took a 50 million-euro provision for its
business in Cyprus. CNP had a joint venture with Cyprus Popular
Bank Pcl, which faces a break-up as part of the island’s March
bailout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 