-- Colombia Leaves Key Rate on Hold as Growth and Inflation Pick Up
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-07-26T18:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/colombia-leaves-key-rate-on-hold-as-growth-and-inflation-pick-up.html
Colombia  kept  borrowing costs 
unchanged for a fourth consecutive month as inflation rebounds
from a six-decade low and economic growth shows signs of picking
up.  Banco de la Republica, led by Governor Jose Dario Uribe,
held its benchmark interest rate at 3.25 percent, as forecast by
all 29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The central bank cut  interest rates  2 percentage points
over its past 13 meetings as the inflation rate fell to its
lowest level since 1955 and growth cooled. Now, with surging
consumer confidence driving a recovery in domestic demand, and
inflation  picking up , policy makers will probably start to raise
rates before the end of the year, said Daniel Lozano, head
analyst at Bogota-based brokerage Serfinco.  “As inflation accelerates, and if the economy picks up as
we expect, the central bank could raise the interest rate 25
basis points in November or December,” Lozano said in a phone
interview before today’s decision.  Consumer confidence  rose to its highest level in more than
a year in June, while retail sales leaped 6.5 percent in May
from the year earlier, the biggest increase in six months.
Central bank co-director Adolfo Meisel said in a July 9
interview that consumer and business expectations are “very
favorable” for the second half of the year.  Policy makers’ next move will be to raise its benchmark
rate by half a percentage point in the first quarter of 2014,
according to the most recent central bank survey of economists.  The economy is also receiving a boost from a spike in the
price of crude oil, which represented more than half of
Colombian exports last year. Crude rose above $100 a barrel for
the first time in more than a year last month.  Inflation Accelerates  Annual inflation accelerated to 2.16 percent in June, its
fastest pace in six months, from 2.0 percent in May. This could
be an early sign of a recovery in growth, central bank co-director Ana Fernanda Maiguashca said July 8.  In February, annual inflation slowed to 1.83 percent, its
lowest level since 1955. Colombia aims for annual consumer price
rises of 3 percent, plus or minus one percentage point.  The economy grew 2.8 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, trailing expansion of 4.1 percent in  Chile  and 4.8
percent in  Peru , while outpacing  Brazil ’s 1.9 percent and
 Mexico ’s 0.8 percent.  In April President  Juan Manuel Santos  announced a 5
trillion-peso ($2.6 billion) stimulus plan, of which $900
million will be spent in 2013. The measures, which include an
expansion of a housing program for low-income families and
cheaper energy costs, will boost 2013 growth by 0.7 percentage
point, according to the  Finance Ministry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Bristow at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net . 