-- U.S. Credit Swaps Fall; Odebrecht Sells $1.69 Billion in Debt
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-07-26T21:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/corporate-credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-increase-for-fourth-day.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk declined for the first time in four days. Odebrecht SA sold
$1.69 billion in bonds after postponing a June offering.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
2.1 basis points to a mid-price of 74.5 basis points as of 4:41
p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure advanced 1.9 basis points this week, the first rise
since the period ended June 21.  Investors are looking for signs of improvement in the
world’s biggest economy to determine when the  Federal Reserve 
will begin to scale back its $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases, which have bolstered credit markets. Many are
reluctant to take a firm position before next week’s jobs and
gross domestic product reports and the Federal Reserve’s policy
meeting, according to Noel Hebert, chief investment officer at
Concannon Wealth Management LLC in Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania .  “We won’t see any real action” until those economic
reports and the central bank meeting, Hebert wrote in an e-mail.  Fed Purchases  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The central bank’s bond purchases “are by no means on a
preset course” and could be reduced more quickly or expanded as
economic conditions warrant, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
on July 17.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  is scheduled to meet July
30-31. The central bank will trim its monthly bond buying to $65
billion from the current pace of $85 billion, according to a
growing number of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . Half of
economists held that view in a July 18-22 survey, up from 44
percent in last month’s poll.  Consumer confidence  increased this month to the highest
level in six years as Americans’ views of their finances
improved.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final  index  of
consumer sentiment advanced to 85.1 in July from 84.1 at the end
of June. Economists in a Bloomberg survey called for 84,
according to the median projection after a preliminary reading
of 83.9.  Expedia Swaps  The cost to protect the bonds of  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  from default
climbed to the highest level in a month after the company missed
second-quarter sales and profit estimates.  Five-year swaps tied to the debt of the online travel-agency widened 28.2 basis points to 175.2 basis points as of
4:22 p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the highest closing level since June 26.  Net income slumped 32 percent to $71.5 million, or 51 cents
a share, from $105.2 million, or 76 cents, a year earlier,
Bellevue, Washington-based Expedia said in a  statement .
Excluding some items, earnings were 64 cents a share. Analysts
had estimated 81 cents on average, Bloomberg data show.  The average relative yield on investment-grade bonds
widened 0.2 basis point to 127.4 basis points, Bloomberg prices
show.  Odebrecht’s debentures yield 6.75 percent and mature in
October 2022, Bloomberg data show. The bonds are expected to be
rated Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service.  Bond Sales  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index dropped 8.1 basis points to 363.4 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  Company bond sales in the U.S. fell 5.8 percent this week
to about $29.5 billion as relative yields widened.  Wells Fargo & Co ., the largest U.S. home lender, raised $5
billion in four parts and Purchase, New York-based  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) 
issued $1.7 billion as they led offerings that were in line with
a 2013 weekly average of $29.3 billion, Bloomberg data show.
Sales compare with $31.3 billion in the period ended July 19.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt widened 5.7 basis points to 550.5 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in New York at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  