-- Dangote Cement First-Half Profit Gains on Record Nigeria Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-07-26T13:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/dangote-cement-first-half-profit-gains-on-record-nigeria-sales.html
Dangote Cement Plc (DANGCEM) ,  Africa ’s biggest
producer of the building material, said first-half profit
increased 52 percent on record sales in Nigeria.  After-tax income for the six months through June advanced
to 107.7 billion naira ($670 million) from 70.8 billion naira a
year earlier, the Lagos-based company said in an e-mailed
statement today. Revenue rose 28 percent to 198.5 billion naira,
as cement sales in Nigeria advanced 29 percent to 6.76 million
metric tons.  Dangote Cement, controlled by billionaire Chairman  Aliko Dangote , has production capacity of 19.3 million metric tons in
Nigeria. The company has three plants in Africa’s second largest
economy and plans to expand into 13 other nations on the
continent, brining total capacity to 55 million tons by 2016.  “Nigeria’s demand for cement remained robust across the
first six months of 2013,” Chief Executive Officer Devakumar Edwin said in the statement. “The 29.4 percent increase in
shipments we achieved was more than double the market’s rate of
growth.”  Gas supply to Dangote’s two largest cement factories in
Nigeria will probably fall in the third quarter due to vandalism
of pipelines in the south of the country. The company estimates
that 80 percent gas and 20 percent low-pour fuel oil will be
used to run the plants this year.  Land Dispute  A factory in  Senegal  hasn’t been able to start production
in the first half as intended because of a legal dispute over
the land title.  “We remain committed to achieving an acceptable resolution
of the land dispute,” the company said in the statement. “Once
such a resolution has been achieved, the commissioning process
can begin in earnest and the plant could be operational and
producing cement within weeks.”  Dangote Cement’s joint venture with  Sephaku Holdings Ltd. (SEP) 
on a plant in South Africa is expected to start producing in the
first quarter of 2014. The plant will have a capacity of three
million tons, Dangote Cement said.  Dangote Cement’s  stock  was unchanged at 190 naira at 1:29
p.m. in Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial capital. The shares have
risen 48 percent this year, outpacing the 33 percent increase in
the  Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index. (NGSEINDX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  