-- De Beers Sees Faster Diamond Sales Growth as U.S. Counters India
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-07-26T11:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/de-beers-counts-on-u-s-jewelry-demand-for-moderate-gem-growth.html
De Beers , the world’s largest
diamond producer, expects the market to grow faster in 2013 than
last year as stronger U.S. consumer demand counters a faltering
market in  India  caused by the rupee’s slump to a record low.  “The world market grew by more than 2 percent last year,
we are forecasting growth for this year slightly higher,” Chief
Executive Officer Philippe Mellier said on a call with reporters
today. “We are cautiously optimistic. Clearly, the U.S. market
is doing well, the Chinese market is not bad. We are certainly
more worried about the Indian market.”  India lags behind only the U.S. and  China , accounting for
about 10 percent of global demand in 2011. That should rise to
13 percent by 2016 as the worldwide market for polished diamonds
swells to $31 billion from $23 billion,  De Beers (AAL)  owner Anglo
American Plc forecast last year. The rupee retreated to a low of
61.2125 a dollar on July 8.  Mellier said he was concerned that the Indian market may
contract this year after the company forecast in November that
demand in the Asian country will expand at a “minimum” of 5
percent in 2013.  “In India, which is a little bit of a problematic market
today, lets hope that the market will not drop in dollar terms
because of the impact of the  exchange rate ,” Mellier said.  The U.S. diamond market is expected to grow more than last
year, while consumption in China, the second-biggest market,
will be similar to the previous 12 months, he said.  Japanese Yen  Consumer sentiment measured by the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final index jumped in the U.S. in
May this year to 84.5, the highest level since 2007.  “De Beers expects moderate growth in diamond jewelry
demand in the remaining six months of 2013, supported by
improving sentiment in the U.S. market,” it said in a statement
today. “Conditions in India and  Japan  remain more uncertain
due, in part, to the continuing volatility of their
currencies.”  The  Japanese yen  has weakened 10 percent this year, the
worst performance among the 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. Japan is
the fourth-biggest diamond market.  “Despite the fragility of the global economic recovery,
macro-economic conditions are generally supportive of global
growth in the polished diamond market in 2013 at levels slightly
above 2012,” De Beers said.  First-half sales were unchanged from a year earlier at $3.3
billion, De Beers said. Production rose 7.6 percent to 14.3
million carats and full-year output will be “broadly in line”
with the 27.9 million carats in 2012, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  