-- Detroit’s 86-Cent Water Debt Seen Delivering Profit: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-07-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/detroit-s-86-cent-water-debt-seen-delivering-profit-muni-credit.html
Detroit ’s bankruptcy is providing a
buying opportunity in the city’s $5.4 billion of water and sewer
debt as investors bet that bonds trading at the deepest discount
since 2011 will get paid in full.  The biggest Chapter 9 filing in U.S. history is scaring
individuals away from the obligations, creating a chance to
profit, said Tom Metzold at Eaton Vance Management and Paul Mansour at Conning. Detroit securities guaranteed by water and
sewer fees would be refinanced and fully repaid under Emergency
Financial Manager Kevyn Orr’s pre-bankruptcy proposal, unlike
some general obligations he deemed unsecured.  Investors still accept less than 100 cents on the dollar to
part with the debt. Two series of water bonds backed by units of
 Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  and  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  traded July 19 -- the day
after Orr filed -- at 86 cents, the lowest since 2011, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Both companies said they would make
full and timely payments to bondholders if Detroit doesn’t.  “The chances of not getting paid 100 cents on the dollar,
even for uninsured people, is as close to zero as possible,”
said Metzold, who helps oversee about $28 billion of debt as co-director of municipal debt at Eaton Vance in  Boston .  Confidence Contrast  The debt is “one of the single-best values in the entire
 bond market  right now,” Metzold said in a telephone interview.
The company owns about $100 million of Detroit water and sewer
obligations and is buying more, he said.  Confidence in Detroit’s revenue bonds contrasts with views
on its general obligations. Orr’s plan to avert Chapter 9
included the unprecedented step of classifying more than $530
million of such securities as unsecured, even though they are
backed by the city’s taxing power. He offered holders of such
borrowings less than 20 cents on the dollar.  Investors holding about $900 billion of general obligations
from issuers nationwide are debating whether Orr’s plan will
hold up in court. No municipality has used bankruptcy to force
such bondholders to take a cut in principal.  While Detroit can stop paying some liabilities under court
protection, the water and sewer system will probably continue to
pay investors, said David Kudla, chief executive officer of
Mainstay Capital Management LLC in Troy,  Michigan . Moody’s
Investors Service said on July 18 it doesn’t expect bankruptcy
to prevent utility-bond holders from collecting debt service.  Orr Speaks  “Water and sewer, we’re going to honor those,” Orr said
yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg’s  New York  headquarters.
“They are unimpaired, they are paid according to their terms,
and we are current on all our obligations with our secured
debt.”  There are few legal precedents from Chapter 9 cases on
which Detroit investors can rely.  In the bankruptcy of Jefferson County,  Alabama , a judge
ruled the county had the right to collect legal fees related to
bankruptcy, and possibly other costs, before warrant holders are
paid. Sewer warrant holders failed to persuade U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Thomas Bennett that the county could only pay the normal
operating costs listed in the debt contracts.  Detroit’s filing came after decades of decline left the
city of 700,000 too poor to pay billions owed to bondholders,
retired police officers and city workers. The municipality this
week obtained federal protection from lawsuits while in
bankruptcy, setting the stage for a hearing near the end of the
year over whether the case belongs in court.  Sewer Safety  Orr sought protection from creditors after too few would
accept a plan he offered to repay $11.5 billion in unsecured
debt with $2 billion in borrowed money.  That portion of obligations didn’t include water and sewer
bonds, which Orr classified as secured. The plan called for
forming the Metropolitan Area Water and Sewer Authority, which
would oversee operations previously handled by the Detroit Water
and Sewerage Department. The new agency would also be able to
issue municipal bonds.  Investors have already shown demand for the water bonds at
86 cents. The debt, backed by Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp.,
traded July 24 at an average of 90 cents. The securities changed
hands this week the most in a month.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the
securities BB- without insurance, three levels below investment
grade.  Ratings Threat  The rating companies haven’t expressed the same confidence
as investors in full repayment on the utility debt.  S&P on July 19 said Detroit sewer bonds could have their
rating cut to CC, 10 steps below investment grade, on the
possibility of a restructuring or negotiated exchange.  Jefferson County was previously the biggest U.S. municipal
bankruptcy, filing in November 2011 as officials sought to spare
residents from ballooning fees needed to pay off debt that
financed a sewer project. The locality had $3.14 billion of
sewer borrowings when it sought court protection.  The county last month filed a plan to end its bankruptcy by
cutting $1.2 billion in principal payments to investors holding
defaulted sewer-related debt. Some warrant holders were given a
choice of either collecting 65 cents on the dollar and filing
claims against insurers, or 80 cents on the dollar and waiving
the insurance.  Detroit Difference  Bondholders won’t be forced into such an agreement in
Detroit because the water and sewer system is self-sufficient
and has adequate revenue to make debt payments, said Mansour,
head of muni research at Hartford, Connecticut-based Conning.  “The big difference between Detroit and Jefferson County
is this water and sewer system is a solid credit,” Mansour
said. His company manages $9 billion in munis, including Detroit
utility debt. “It’s not the problem. It has the potential to be
part of the solution.”  Patrick Stoffel at Wells Fargo Advisors and Thomas McLoughlin at UBS Wealth Management said in July 19 reports that
precedents set in Jefferson County and other Chapter 9 cases
that uphold bondholders’ right to dedicated revenue should
protect Detroit utility investors.  Even if the bonds are handled differently, having insurers
backing the debt justifies holding the water and sewer bonds,
Stoffel said.  “I don’t think the insurance is even going to come into
play on the water and sewer bonds -- it’s just superfluous,”
said Eaton Vance’s Metzold. “Uninsured or insured, either one
is a great investment.”  Issuance Slows  In the $3.7 trillion municipal market, issuers including
Chicago O’Hare International Airport are set to sell a combined
$4.6 billion next week, down from $6.4 billion this week, as
rising yields slow issuance.  At  2.92 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis are
close to the highest since April 2011. The  interest rate 
compares with  2.57 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 114 percent, compared with an average of 93 percent since
2001. The greater the figure, the cheaper munis are compared
with federal securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  