-- Deutsche Bank Gets Boost From Underwriting as Profit Seen Rising
-- B y   W e i x i n   Z h a   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-07-26T09:54:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/deutsche-bank-gets-boost-from-underwriting-as-profit-seen-rising.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , continental
Europe’s biggest lender, may say second-quarter profit climbed
after earnings from underwriting stock and bond sales helped
bring a surge in investment banking revenue.  Net income may increase 29 percent to 845 million euros
($1.12 billion) in the three months through June from 656
million euros a year earlier, according to the average estimate
of nine  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg. Deutsche Bank may say
pretax profit at the investment bank doubled to 990 million
euros when it reports the earnings on July 30.  Global investment banks, including  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
 Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc., had higher revenue from trading and
underwriting securities for clients in the second quarter.
Deutsche Bank Co-Chief Executive Officer Anshu Jain, 50, is also
cutting pay, shedding riskier assets and moving staff to cheaper
locations to reduce costs.  “The market is expecting to see a good quarter in
investment banking,” Ingo Frommen, an analyst with Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart who recommends investors buy the
stock, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “There is
positive momentum on costs, but I don’t know if we’ll see the
full effect as they still have to spend money on their overhaul
and then there’s the black box of litigation.”  Apple Bonds  Deutsche Bank and Goldman Sachs were among banks earning
$53.25 million in fees from underwriting a $17 billion bond sale
by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Deutsche Bank was joint global coordinator with
Morgan Stanley on the sale of 1.4 billion euros of shares in
broadcaster  RTL Group SA (RTL)  by Bertelsmann SE, Europe’s largest
media company, at the end of April.  Jain, formerly head of the investment bank, has set aside
2.4 billion euros to cover expenses from litigation and
regulatory probes including an investigation into alleged
manipulation of Libor, a global benchmark for interest rates.  Net income at Deutsche Bank rose 19 percent to 1.65 billion
euros in the first quarter, traditionally a peak period for
investment banking as clients do new business at the start of
the year.  Deutsche Bank rose 0.5 percent to 36.22 euros a 11:06 a.m.
in  Frankfurt , valuing the company at 36.9 billion euros. The
shares have risen 9.9 percent this year compared with a 9.4
percent increase for the 40-member  Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index .  Revenue was “sound” in the first two months of the second
quarter, helped by “solid” income at the investment bank, Jain
said in June. Low interest rates and pressure on margins in some
regions and businesses put a drag on earnings, he told investors
at a conference in New York.  Transaction Banking  Revenue from fixed income, currencies and commodities was
9.2 billion euros last year, 59 percent of the 15.6 billion
euros in income at the investment bank unit, according to
company filings. The investment bank contributed 46 percent of
the firm’s 33.7 billion euros of revenue.  Deutsche Bank’s three non-investment banking businesses
also helped earnings grow, the survey showed.  Pretax profit at the transaction banking division probably
rose 9.1 percent to 321 million euros, according to the average
estimate of seven analysts. Asset and wealth management saw a 49
percent increase to 146 million euros and private and corporate
banking raised pretax profit 9.5 percent to 402 million euros,
the analysts said.  Lower Expenses  Cost-cutting is also helping boost profit. In September,
Deutsche Bank announced a plan to reduce annual expenses by 4.5
billion euros by 2015. It completed the majority of almost 2,000
job cuts, including more than 800 at the investment-banking
unit, by the end of last year.  The company started moving 1,500 positions out of New York,
 London , Hong Kong and  Singapore  in the first quarter, Chief
Operating Officer Henry Ritchotte said in a presentation to
investors in Brussels last month. The bank hasn’t specified
where the jobs are being moved to.  Jain and Chief Financial Officer Stefan Krause are
scheduled to hold a conference call with analysts at 8 a.m.
Frankfurt time after the publication of the quarterly results.  Investors will probably ask Jain about plans to reduce
leverage at the bank toward levels recommended by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision, said  Andreas Plaesier , an
analyst at M.M. Warburg in Hamburg who recommends investors buy
Deutsche Bank shares.  Leverage Concern  Some regulators are questioning the weightings banks use to
determine their risk and capital levels and are instead
embracing a broader measure of equity to total assets known as
the leverage ratio. The Basel committee, which sets global
banking standards, has suggested that banks hold capital
equivalent to 3 percent or more of their assets.  Deutsche Bank had a leverage ratio of 2 percent after
selling almost 3 billion euros of shares at the end of April,
James Chappell, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in London, said in
an e-mailed report to clients last month. The company would have
to delay dividends and set aside four years of profit to exceed
the 3 percent goal, according to Berenberg.  The following is a table of average second-quarter
estimates, year-earlier figures and results from the previous
quarter, as well as the number of analysts surveyed. The data is
in millions of euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Weixin Zha in Frankfurt at 
 wzha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  