-- Draghi Pledge One Year On Rescues Bonds Not Economy
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w ,   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-07-26T06:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/draghi-pledge-one-year-on-rescues-bonds-not-economy.html
A year ago today,  Mario Draghi 
pledged to save the euro and unblock credit to companies. His
job is only half done.  Bond yields down from panic levels across the region are
proof of the European Central Bank president’s success in
promising “whatever it takes” to preserve the common currency.
Even after he crafted an unprecedented plan to buy the bonds of
distressed nations, companies in countries such as Spain are
still struggling to obtain funding, suggesting his aim of ending
financial fragmentation remains elusive.  “The bond-purchase program was designed to fix the fact
that low interest rates didn’t have an impact on credit supply
to companies and households in the periphery,” said Ralf Preusser, head of European rates research at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in  London . “Its success shouldn’t be measured by
whether bond yields have fallen but whether companies have an
easier time to access credit at better rates. There, the answer
is clearly no.”  While Draghi proved on July 26 last year that the central
bank has the power to change the course of the region’s crisis
at a stroke, record-low interest rates haven’t reached those
members of the 17-nation euro region most in need. That leaves
investors and entrepreneurs seeking another policy lightning
bolt from the central bank that may not come.  Borrowing Costs  The ECB reduced its benchmark interest rate to 0.5 percent
in May. The same month, Spain’s 10-year  yield  fell to 3.94
percent, the lowest since 2010 and down from a euro-era record
of 7.75 percent reached the day before Draghi’s July speech.
 Spain ’s borrowing cost is at 4.66 percent today, down from an
average this year of about 4.8 percent.  Draghi told investors and business leaders in his London
speech that the “key strategy point” for saving the euro would
be to repair financial fragmentation. When he announced an
unlimited bond-purchase program dubbed Outright Monetary
Transactions six weeks later, he said that “we should therefore
see some improvement on the credit front.”  That hasn’t happened. Euro-area banks have continued to
tighten credit standards and reduce lending, ECB data shows.
Loans to the private sector have contracted for 14 months and
fell by the most on record in June.  Corporate Rates  Average  interest rates  on new loans to businesses in Spain
rose to 3.89 percent in May 2013 from 3.68 percent in June 2012,
ECB data show. Rates fell 12 basis points in  Belgium , 16 basis
points in Slovenia and 1 basis point in  Italy . The average
decline in the euro area was 29 basis points, helped by a drop
of 61 basis points in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, which
is seen as a haven amid the crisis.  The euro-area economy shrank in the six quarters through
March, the longest recession since the single currency started
in 1999. The ECB forecasts gross domestic product will contract
0.6 percent this year, after declining the same amount in 2012.  The currency bloc is showing some signs that it may be
emerging from its slump and that credit access may be improving.
Manufacturing unexpectedly expanded in July for the first time
in two years, according to a purchasing managers’ index from
London-based Markit Economics. Banks loosened credit standards
for loans to consumers in the second quarter for the first time
since the end of 2007, the ECB’s Bank Lending Survey showed.  ‘Rhetoric Policy’  Economic and market strains in nations from  Portugal  to
Cyprus haven’t pushed governments into applying for the OMT. The
still-untapped program is “probably the most successful”
policy measure of recent times, Draghi said on June 6.  With inflation slower than 2 percent, Draghi still has room
to bolster economic sentiment. Options include another cut in
the benchmark rate, charging banks for depositing money at the
ECB, linking the bank’s guidance on future policy to economic
indicators or time horizons, or introducing more long-term loans
to banks.  “The ECB probably hopes that they don’t need to do
anything,” said Mark Wall, chief euro-area economist at
Deutsche Bank AG in London. “The ECB is increasingly relying on
words but the risk is that the more you rely on rhetoric policy,
the bigger the chances that the market will call your bluff.”  Reduced Imbalances  The central bank has argued that financial fragmentation
has eased since the OMT’s announcement, even as bank lending
continues to decline. In an April presentation in Brussels, ECB
Vice President  Vitor Constancio  cited the shrinking imbalances
in the euro-area’s payments system, known as Target2, as one
indicator.  Germany’s Target2 surplus has fallen from 729 billion euros
($963 billion) in June 2012 to 575 billion euros last month.
Spain’s Target2 deficit has dropped to 284 billion euros from
372 billion.  “It is hard to avoid the conclusion that the OMT has
proved to be of considerable benefit over the past year,” said
Huw Pill, chief European economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
in London. “Existential tail risks have diminished
dramatically. And, while credit markets remain painfully
segmented, the threat of a systemic collapse in the European
financial sector has receded.”  Furthermore, Draghi’s defense is that monetary policy can’t
go it alone.  Banking Union  “It is essential that the fragmentation of euro-area
credit markets continues to decline further and that the
resilience of banks is strengthened where needed,” he said in
his monthly press conference on July 4. “Further decisive steps
for establishing a banking union will help to accomplish this
objective.”  Political progress on establishing that union isn’t going
as fast as the ECB would like. Months of wrangling over who will
pay when banks fail and the fact that European Union lawmakers
won’t vote on the legislation before September mean the ECB
can’t start its task of supervising financial institutions until
late 2014, at least six months behind the initial target of
March.  That also delays an ECB review of banks’ balance sheets and
the subsequent stress tests that are supposed to show the health
of financial institutions, so helping to kickstart lending.  Declining credit puts “serious question marks over the
strength of the nascent recovery across the region,” said
Martin van Vliet, senior euro-area economist at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam. “It is difficult to envisage a sustainable euro-zone
economic recovery without a pick-up in bank lending.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  