-- EADS Names Hoppe Premium Aerotec CEO as Unit Reorganizes
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-26T13:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/eads-names-hoppe-premium-aerotec-ceo-as-unit-reorganizes.html
European Aeronautic, Defence and
Space Co. ’s Premium Aerotec unit appointed Christoph Hoppe as
chief executive officer as the plane-parts making business works
on improvements that EADS’s Airbus division calls urgent.  Hoppe, 50, replaces CEO Kai Horten, who was dismissed in
May. The executive, who is human resources director at EADS’s
Cassidian defense unit, will take on the new role in September,
Premium Aerotec said today in a statement.  EADS created Premium Aerotec out of three German factories
that supply components to Airbus, the world’s second-biggest
maker of commercial aircraft. The unit has had trouble meeting
delivery commitments and quality standards, and must start
making improvements immediately,  Tom Williams , executive vice
president for programs at Toulouse, France-based Airbus, said in
an interview last month.  “The main task of the renewed and highly competent
management team will be to further enhance Premium Aerotec’s
high performance capabilities and to restore profitability,”
Guenter Butschek, Airbus chief operating officer and head of the
Premium Aerotec supervisory board, said in today’s statement.  EADS is bringing in new management to replace Horten and
Premium Aerotec Chief Financial Officer Helmut Kretschmer, who
left in May. Lars Kaestle, a comptroller at EADS, was appointed
as Premium Aerotec CFO on July 1. EADS has set a target for the
Augsburg, Germany-based plane-component business to reach
positive free  cash flow  by 2015 as it undergoes an
“intensifying” cost review.  French Parallel  Premium Aerotec was set up in 2009 after Airbus failed to
find a buyer for two of its plants in Nordenham and Varel and
the one in Augsburg. A parallel organization, called Aerolia,
was created from Airbus’s plants in  France . That entity has
progressed further in its restructuring, Williams said.  “Setting clear targets, having the courage to make
changes, teamwork and social dialogue are at the very top of my
list of priorities,” Hoppe said in today’s statement.  EADS has said previously it would consider trying to sell
Premium Aerotech and Aerolia once a production ramp-up of the
twin-aisle A350 long-range airliner that first flew last month
is assured. The A350 is due to be handed over to airlines
starting next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris via 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  