-- Teck Joins Goldcorp Cutting Spending in Slump: Corporate Canada
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-07-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/teck-joins-goldcorp-cutting-spending-in-slump-corporate-canada.html
Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B)  and  Goldcorp
Inc. (G)  yesterday joined a list of Canadian resource companies
cutting spending plans as firms appease investors who question
the logic of large investments when commodity prices are weak.  Vancouver-based Teck, the country’s second-largest mining
company, reduced its 2013 capital expenditures guidance by 7.5
percent to C$1.85 billion ($1.80 billion), while Goldcorp said
spending will be about $200 million less this year than earlier
planned. Other firms scrapping projects, cutting spending or
deferring plans include  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , Encana Corp.,
Eldorado Gold Corp. and Suncor Energy Inc.  “In the last couple of months it’s definitely been more of
a focus for investors to concentrate on where the money is being
spent,” said Steve Vannatta, who helps manage about C$6.7
billion in assets at Aston Hill Financial Inc. in Toronto.
“Growth for the sake of growth, people aren’t rewarding guys
for that anymore.”  Canadian companies are slowing investment just as policy
makers are increasingly relying on business spending to drive
growth in the world’s 11th largest economy. The International
Monetary Fund projects  Canada  will be among the worst performing
economies outside  Europe  in the Group of 20 in 2013.  The Bank of Canada’s commodity price  index , while higher
than the beginning of the year, has fallen 10.9 percent since
reaching a post-recession high in May 2011. The central bank
expects that an acceleration in business investment will help
drive faster growth in 2014 once companies begin to see strong
evidence of pick up in foreign demand.  Uncertain Executives  Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz says business
executives are saying they’re still uncertain about foreign
demand. CEOs are telling him “exports are growing but it’s not
gangbusters yet and I’m not sure it’s going to last,” Poloz
told reporters on July 20.  Data suggest the country’s largest companies are turning
their focus to sustaining dividends and moving away from
investment. Average  capital expenditures  among Canadian-listed
companies valued at more than C$1 billion is expected to drop 15
percent to C$828 million in 2015 from C$974 million this year,
according to Bloomberg estimates.  The average dividend yield, which measures disbursements to
investors relative to a company’s share price, is seen rising to
4.17 percent by 2015 from 3.8 percent this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Deferring Projects  “We are prudently deferring projects and capital
expenditures but we continue to pay a strong dividend and
continue to buy back shares,” Teck Chief Executive Officer Don Lindsay said yesterday. He spoke on a conference call after the
company reported that second-quarter net income declined to
C$143 million, or 25 cents a share, from C$354 million, or 60
cents, a year earlier. Excluding one-time items, profit was 34
cents a share, topping the 32-cent average of 25 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Teck shares gained 72 cents, or 3 percent, to C$24.41 in
Toronto yesterday, while Goldcorp lost 36 cents, or 1.2 percent,
to C$28.88.  Over the past year, some energy companies including
Whitecap Resources Inc., Torc Oil and Gas Ltd., and Surge Energy
Inc. have said they’re changing their strategies to focus on
yielding dividends.  Whitecap’s 28.9 percent gain this year is the second-best
among oil and gas producers in Canada, after it announced in
November it would focus on paying a sustainable dividend.  ‘Solid’ Dividends  Vannatta said he recently bought shares in Calgary-based
 Black Diamond Group  Ltd., which rents temporary structures for
the oil industry, and Computer Modelling Group Ltd., a  software
company  that specializes in energy, because of their “solid”
dividend yield.  Gold producers have been among the most aggressive in
cutting spending plans in recent weeks, after prices for the
precious metal plunged 23 percent in the second quarter in  New
York . Eldorado, a Canadian producer of the metal with mines in
 China , Europe and  Brazil , said July 16 it will defer expansion
and slow development of projects, the same day Toronto-based
producer QMX Gold Corp. said it is curtailing operations at the
Lac Herbin mine in  Quebec .  In an earnings report yesterday that revealed a $1.93
billion second-quarter loss, Goldcorp said it is reviewing
operating plans and will defer some spending this year and next
at mines it’s building in Argentina and Canada.  Golds Punished  “The gold sector in general has been punished because they
were growing for the sake of growth and they weren’t actually
generating any returns,” Vannatta said.  “You’ve definitely
seen that space be more focused on capital efficiency.”  A focus on dividends can force companies to take on too
much debt.  Renegade Petroleum Ltd. (RPL) , which has lost 52 percent
this year, cut its dividend by 56 percent this month to ease
worries about its debt levels. Penn West Petroleum Ltd. fueled
gains after announcing dividend and staff cuts to repair balance
sheets.  The impact of dividends on balance sheets isn’t the only
concern. Falling investment means companies will have less
capacity to grow sales and profits in the future, according to
John O’Connell of Davis Rea Ltd. The trend could propel some
companies into a “death spiral” of slow growth and debt, he
said.  “Companies have given more thought to raising stock prices
than their underlying businesses,” O’Connell, chief executive
officer of Davis Rea in Toronto, which manages about C$600
million, said in a telephone interview. They “are very nervous
about reducing their dividends even if it’s not sustainable.”  It’s more than just resource companies feeling pressure
from shareholders. Tim Hortons Inc., Canada’s largest fast-food
chain, recently faced criticism of its U.S. strategy from
activist investors Highfields Capital Management LP of  Boston 
and New York-based Scout Capital Management LLC, which hold 4
percent and 5 percent of the company’s shares. Both investment
firms pressured the company to scale back U.S. expansion, and
instead direct capital to share buybacks.  “Investors have forgotten dividends aren’t entitlements,”
O’Connell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  