-- MediaNet, Infineon, Amazon: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-07-26T12:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/medianet-infineon-amazon-intellectual-property.html
Singer-songwriter Aimee Mann is
suing MediaNet Digital Inc., the music streaming company,
claiming that the company offered her music without
authorization.  In a copyright lawsuit filed in federal court in  Los
Angeles  on July 22, Mann, who was in the bands The Young Snakes
and ‘Til Tuesday before starting a solo career, said her license
with MediaNet terminated in December 2006, and the company
continued to offer her songs after that date.  Frank Johnson, chief executive officer of MediaNet, said in
an e-mailed statement that the claims are without merit.  “MediaNet has had a license for her music since December
2003,” Johnson said. “We have been paying royalties regularly
to her agents on her behalf. MediaNet is a supporter of artist
rights and copyright and has been since we launched in 2001. We
expect this matter will be resolved.”  Mann is represented by Gradstein & Marzano PC of Los
Angeles. A spokeswoman for New York-based MediaNet, Laurie Jakobsen, said the company was in the process of retaining
counsel.  The case is Mann v. MediaNet Digital Inc., 13-cv-05269,
U.S. District Court, Central District of  California  (Los
Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  Patent  Infineon Wins Most of Appeals Case Over Qimonda Patents Rights  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest
chipmaker, won an appeals court ruling saying it still holds
license rights to patents owned by insolvent Qimonda AG.  The Munich Higher Regional Court yesterday dismissed the
majority of arguments brought by Qimonda insolvency
administrator Michael Jaffe. The judges rejected his claim that
the  patent rights  ended under German insolvency rules, court
spokesman Wilhelm Schneider said in an e-mailed statement.  Infineon argued in a lower court that the suit covers
thousands of Qimonda patents and that the question of whether it
still has rights to that portfolio is key to Infineon’s
business.  Infineon completed an initial public offering of Qimonda,
its former unit, in August 2006 to reduce its dependence on
businesses with volatile demand and prices. Qimonda filed for
insolvency in 2009 after memory-chip prices fell.  Yesterday’s case is part of a wider dispute between Jaffe
and Infineon. In a separate suit still pending in Munich, Jaffe
is seeking 3.35 billion euros ($4.4 billion) he says is owed to
Qimonda because of an incomplete filing when Infineon
transferred its memory business to a shell company that became
Qimonda. As part of that transaction, the patents were also
transferred to Qimonda and licensed back to Infineon.  Jaffe has already appealed the ruling, Sebastian Brunner,
his spokesman, said by phone.  Infineon is “delighted” that a second panel of judges has
backed its legal argument, said Kay Laudien, company spokesman.  The case is OLG Muenchen, 6 U 541/12.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Chateau Ausone Wins Trademark Dispute in China, Decanter Reports  Chateau Ausone, a leading wine producer in Bordeaux’s
Saint-Emilion region, won a trademark case in  China  against a
person who tried to register a Chinese ideogram of its name,
according to  Decanter.com , the website of Decanter, a wine
magazine.  Although the wine estate held no prior legal rights to the
trademark, the Chinese Trademark Office, or CTO, ruled that the
Chinese applicant seeking to register it had acted in bad faith,
according to the website. Bordeaux wine merchant Barriere
Freres, jointly owned by Castel Freres and Suntory, won a
similar trademark dispute relating to its Grand Bateau trademark
with a ship logo, Decanter said.  For more trademark news, click here.  In the News  Five Hackers Charged in Largest Data-Breach Scheme in U.S.  Four Russians and a Ukrainian were charged in what
prosecutors called the largest hacking and data breach scheme in
U.S. history.  The five conspired in a “worldwide scheme that targeted
major corporate networks, stole more than 160 million credit
card numbers and resulted in hundreds of millions of dollars in
losses,” Paul Fishman, the U.S. attorney in  New Jersey , said
yesterday in a statement.  U.S. prosecutors in  New York  separately indicted one of the
five men and another Russian in another hacking scheme that
targeted 800,000 bank accounts. Two of the men are in custody.  The five men operated “a prolific hacking organization”
that “penetrated the secure computer networks of several of the
largest payment-processing companies, retailers and financial
institutions in the world,” according to an indictment unsealed
in federal court in  Newark , New Jersey. They are accused of
stealing user names and passwords, personal identification
information, and credit and debit card numbers.  After stealing data, known as “dumps,” the men sold it to
“dumps resellers,” who then sold it through online forums or
to individuals and organizations, prosecutors charged.  The men encoded the data into the magnetic strips of blank
plastic cards and withdrew money from automated teller machines
and made credit-card purchases, the U.S. said.  “Financial institutions, credit card companies and
consumers suffered hundreds of millions in losses, including
losses in excess of $300 million by just three of the corporate
victims, and immeasurable losses to identity-theft victims,”
according to the indictment. Companies they allegedly targeted
included  Carrefour SA (CA) , France’s biggest retailer.  All five were charged with conspiracy to gain unauthorized
access to computer and conspiracy to commit  wire fraud .  The cases are U.S. v. Drinkman, 09-cr-00626, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark); and U.S. v. Kalinin and
U.S. v. Nasenkov, 09-cr-1093, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  Amazon Sues U.S. Over $600 Million CIA Computing Contract  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , which had won a $600 million contract for
Central Intelligence Agency cloud-computing services, sued the
U.S. after  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  secured a
government mediator’s ruling that could reopen the bidding
process.  Amazon filed its bid protest lawsuit July 24 in the U.S.
Court of Federal Claims. The complaint and other documents in
the case are under seal until a judge decides what will be made
public.  The U.S. Government Accountability Office, the agency that
makes recommendations on challenges to contract awards, sided
with IBM on June 6, agreeing that the spy agency failed to
properly evaluate prices and waived a contract requirement only
for Seattle-based Amazon.  The GAO recommended that the CIA reopen negotiations with
the companies. The decision, which agencies usually accept,
would give Armonk, New York-based IBM another chance to land the
computing contract.  IBM is a longtime federal contractor, amassing about $1.5
billion in awards in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, 2012.
Amazon is newer to the market, setting up a dedicated government
sales division only a few years ago. More than 300 U.S. agencies
use the company’s computing services, Teresa Carlson, an Amazon
vice president, said in statement in May.  Allison Price, a Justice Department spokeswoman, and John
Tomczyk, a CIA spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to requests
for comment the lawsuit. Ana Rigby, a spokeswoman for Amazon,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment sent
before normal business hours.  The CIA has until early August to decide whether to follow
the GAO’s recommendation to reopen the bidding process,
according to federal contracting regulations.  The case is Amazon Web Services Inc. v. U.S., 13-cv-00506,
U.S. Court of Federal Claims ( Washington ).  Law Firm Moves  U.S. Patent and Trademark Office GC Moves to McDermott  Bernard J. Knight Jr., general counsel of the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office, is joining McDermott Will & Emery LLP’s
Washington office as a partner in the  intellectual-property 
litigation practice group. He will be co-chairman of the firm’s
post-grant practice, joining the firm in September.  “Bernie has been in the public spotlight as a key
architect of the 2012 America Invents Act, which fundamentally
changed several of the key provisions of  patent law ,” Sarah Chapin Columbia, partner and head of the firm’s intellectual
property litigation practice group, said in a statement.  Knight has been the Patent Office’s general counsel since
2010. He was previously acting general counsel of the  U.S.
Treasury .  Jones Day Adds IP Lawyers in Dallas and Atlanta Offices  Richard “Jay” Johnson, an assistant U.S. attorney for the
Eastern District of  Texas  focused on cyber crime, intellectual
property theft and the collection of electronic evidence, joined
the Dallas office of  Jones Day  LP as of counsel.  Geoffrey Gavin joined the firm’s Atlanta office as a
partner earlier this month. He focuses on patent litigation and
counseling and represents clients from industries including
wireless telecommunications, software, athletic footwear and
equipment, medical devices, paper products, floor covering and
logistics equipment. Previously, Gavin was a partner in the
Atlanta office of Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP.  Both Gavin and Johnson are joining the intellectual
property practice of Jones Day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  