-- Egyptian Crackdown on Mursi Supporters Leaves Dozens Dead
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2013-07-27T08:59:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/egypt-orders-mursi-detained-for-links-to-hamas-militants.html
Dozens of supporters of ousted
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi were killed in clashes with
police as the new rulers seek to consolidate control over the
country and put an end to attacks on the armed forces.  In Cairo, 75 pro-Mursi Egyptians were killed yesterday and
early today and more than 1,000 injured, the state-run Middle
East  News Agency  said. Most were shot, MENA said, citing medics
at a field hospital in Rabaa el-Adawiya Square, where Mursi’s
 Muslim Brotherhood  backers have held rallies since he was ousted
by the military and detained on July 3. The Health Ministry said
violence in the square itself during the early hours of today
left 20 dead and 177 injured, MENA reported.  Egyptian judicial authorities yesterday extended Mursi’s
detention for 15 days after accusing him of conspiring with the
Palestinian militant group Hamas in murders, abductions,
jailbreaks and other attacks on the country’s security
buildings, MENA said. The military said the day before that it
would use new tactics against violence and terrorism starting
today, without giving details.  “What’s happening right now is an ugly massacre,” Omar
Talaat, a doctor at the field hospital, told al-Jazeera TV.  As the military’s deadline loomed, thousands of Mursi
backers rallied in Cairo and other cities including Alexandria,
while tens of thousands of his opponents met in the capital’s
 Tahrir Square  and near the presidential palace.  The gatherings yesterday followed a call the previous day
by military chief Abdelfatah al-Seesi for Egyptians to take to
the streets to give the armed forces and police a broad mandate
to combat violence.  ‘Reframe Conflict’  Al-Seesi’s request for Egyptians to rally was “designed to
reframe the conflict with the Muslim Brotherhood as a war on
terror,” Hani Sabra, Middle East director at the Eurasia Group
in  New York , said in an e-mailed statement.  Mursi’s backers vowed today to press ahead with their
demonstrations against what they call a “coup.”  “The massacres and crimes committed against the free
Egyptian people will not scare them and they will continue to
protest peacefully until the coup is reversed and coup-ist
leaders are brought to justice,” the Anti-Coup Alliance,
comprising Brotherhood members and Islamist parties, said today
in a statement in English.  Mursi has been held at an undisclosed location since his
ouster, which followed street protests against his rule by those
who accused him of pursuing an Islamist agenda. His supporters
have held daily demonstrations since his removal by the army,
demanding the former president’s reinstatement. Before the
latest violence, almost 100 people had died in clashes since
Mursi was deposed.  Palace Rally  Thousands gathered yesterday by the presidential palace in
Heliopolis, site of one of the rallies called by al-Seesi, as
military helicopters hovered above. People waved Egyptian flags
and carried posters of al-Seesi while chanting “Come down
Seesi, you’re our president.”  “He wanted the authority and we’re giving it to him,”
said 26-year-old Ayman Rizkalla. “ Egypt  is for all of us, not
just the Islamists who were taking us to hell.”  The unrest has roiled the country’s markets. Yields on
Egypt’s 5.75 percent bonds maturing April 2020 rose 4 basis
points to 8.60 percent yesterday, bringing this week’s increase
to 15 basis points, the most in a month.  Detaining “a legitimate president” without the presence
of his lawyers “shows the nature of the military regime,”
Essam El-Erian, vice chairman of the Brotherhood’s Freedom and
Justice Party, said yesterday on his Facebook page.  Brotherhood’s Opponents  Opponents of the Brotherhood, including youth groups and
secular-leaning parties, accuse Islamists of deadly violence,
including a surge in attacks by militants in the  Sinai peninsula 
against military and police positions. Several armed supporters
of Mursi were detained this week as they tried to attack a rival
sit-in in Tahrir Square, the heart of the 2011 uprising that
toppled  Hosni Mubarak , state-run media reported.  Clashes in Alexandria yesterday left seven people dead,
Ahram Gate reported, citing Khalid el-Khatib, a senior official
at the Health Ministry. A total of nine people were killed
nationwide yesterday, MENA said. Police clashed with Mursi’s
supporters in Cairo when they tried to block key roads serving
the capital, the news agency said.  ‘Increasingly Untenable’  “It’s becoming increasingly untenable for president Mursi
to be detained for almost a month now without being charged with
anything,” putting pressure on the authorities to announce a
judicial process has begun, Yasser el-Shimy, a Cairo-based
analyst with the  International Crisis Group , said yesterday by
phone. “It’s likely to inflame the sentiments of the pro-Mursi
crowd.”  Mursi was accused of escaping and assisting others to
escape from Wadi al-Natrun jail, where he was detained before
the 2011 uprising, according to a judicial statement yesterday.
He was questioned over the allegations and was presented with
evidence, MENA said.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration, in a move that may
protect U.S. aid to Egypt, has concluded that it doesn’t have to
make a formal determination on whether Mursi’s ouster was a
coup, a State Department official said.  Making such a determination, which potentially would have
required cutting off aid, wouldn’t be in the U.S. national
interest, State Department spokeswoman Jennifer Psaki said
yesterday. Egypt is a stabilizing force in the region, and it’s
to the U.S.’s advantage to continue providing aid, she said.  Obama had asked U.S. agencies on July 3 to review whether
Mursi’s removal required halting about $1.5 billion in U.S. aid,
of which $1.3 billion is military assistance. A U.S. law
requires the denial of “any assistance to the government of any
country whose duly elected head of government is deposed by a
military coup d’etat or decree,” or a coup “in which the
military plays a decisive role.”  “Our national security interests influence our policy as
it relates to aid with Egypt,” Psaki told reporters at a State
Department briefing. “We reviewed the legal obligations and
determined we did not need to make a determination one way or
the other.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Cairo at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  