-- Einhorn’s Greenlight Closes J.C. Penney Short Position
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-07-26T20:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/einhorn-s-greenlight-closes-j-c-penney-short-position.html
Greenlight Capital Inc. closed its
short position on retailer  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  and sold its long
holding in  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in the second quarter, founder  David Einhorn  said in a letter to investors.  Greenlight, which oversaw $8.8 billion in assets at the
start of the year, returned 1.2 percent in the quarter and 7.1
percent in the first half of 2013, the hedge-fund firm said in
today’s letter, a copy of which was obtained by  Bloomberg News .
J.C. Penney was “our most profitable  short  of 2012,” and
Greenlight covered its position when the board fired Chief
Executive Officer  Ron Johnson  “before he could turn the company
into a penney stock.”  J.C. Penney, based in Plano,  Texas , is trying to rebound
from a 25 percent drop in sales last year under Johnson’s
leadership. He was replaced as CEO by Myron Ullman in April.
Ullman, who ran the chain from 2004 to 2011, borrowed $850
million from the company’s credit line and secured a loan of
$2.25 billion from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “In 2006 we compared Microsoft to A-Rod, which was a
compliment at the time,” the firm said, likening the Redmond,
Washington-based software maker to New York Yankees baseball
player  Alex Rodriguez . “In 2013, the comparison is still apt,
but it is no longer a compliment.” Windows 8 “appears to be a
flop, and a decade of mismanagement has put Microsoft at risk of
becoming a shrinking company,” the firm told clients.  Greenlight also closed long positions in  CBS Corp. (CBS) ,  Seagate
Technology Plc (STX) ,  Sprint Corp. (S)  and  Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET) ;
and shorts in  Aruba Networks Inc. (ARUN) ,  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP)  and
 Essex Property Trust Inc. (ESS) ,  Dick’s Sporting Goods Inc. (DKS)  and
Greenhill & Co.  The fund added long holdings in  ING US Inc. (VOYA)  and Greek banks
 Alpha Bank AE (ALPHA)  and  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR) , according to the letter.  In a short sale, an investor borrows a stock and then sells
it in anticipation that the price will fall and it can be
repurchased at a lower price later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  