-- Tepco President Apologizes for Fukushima Leak Disclosure Delay
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-07-26T08:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/tepco-president-apologizes-for-fukushima-leak-disclosure-delay.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  erred by
not publicly airing its suspicions that radioactive groundwater
at the Fukushima nuclear plant may be leaking into the ocean,
the company’s president said.  The utility known as Tepco suspected that the groundwater
was seeping into the Pacific more than a month before it
acknowledged that the leakage was taking place on July 22,
President Naomi Hirose said at a press conference today. That
acknowledgment was based on data shared with him three days
earlier, said Hirose, who apologized for that delay as well.  “There are many points I regret,” Hirose said. “Our
announcement was delayed because we decided to wait until more
reliable data became available instead of informing of risks in
a proactive way.”  Hirose vowed that the company would be faster to share
information with the public in the future.  Tepco first suspected that the water was leaking into the
ocean on June 19, when it found strontium and tritium in a
monitoring well at a turbine complex within the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, which was damaged in the March 2011 earthquake and
tsunami, Hirose said.  The company’s failure to acknowledge its concerns over the
seepage into the ocean continued on July 10, when the Nuclear
Regulation Authority said it suspected there was a leak and
urged the utility to speed construction of a seawall to block
contaminated water.  Reform Committee  Hirose and Tepco Vice President Zengo Aizawa each had one
month of their salaries cut by 10 percent as a penalty for
delaying disclosure of the leak, according to a company
statement today.  Hirose acknowledged the delay during a briefing that had
been meant to focus on discussions held earlier in the day by
Tepco’s  Nuclear Reform Monitoring Committee , a panel of outside
experts set up after the accident to help guide the resumption
of the company’s nuclear plants.  “It is very frustrating for the members of the committee
to arrive just in time when there is groundwater leakage and a
very poor communication program, said Committee Chairman  Dale
Klein , a former chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission. ‘‘From what we’ve seen, it’s more of what I’d call
incompetence instead of any cover-up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  