-- Merkel Ally Says Germany Will Win Support for Bank Union Stance
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-07-26T13:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/merkel-ally-says-germany-will-win-support-for-bank-union-stance.html
The parliamentary finance-policy
spokesman for  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s bloc said he’s
confident that Germany will persuade more European countries to
join it in rejecting a single fund to wind down troubled banks.  Plans unveiled by the European Commission for a banking
union in Europe are “not acceptable” in their present form as
they’re incompatible with European law, Klaus-Peter Flosbach
said in e-mailed comments responding to questions today.  “We advocate a network of national restructuring funds
instead of a single European bank resolution fund,” he said.
“I’am optimistic that other member states will join our view.”  Flosbach’s comments followed a report in today’s Die Welt
newspaper that German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble is
forging a blocking minority of European Union member states
against a commission proposal that might hold taxpayers liable
for the costs of winding down troubled banks.  Germany  has won the support of the U.K.,  Finland ,  Estonia 
and possibly some other EU countries, Die Welt  said , citing
German government officials it didn’t name. The commission
proposal needs the backing of 55 percent of member states
representing 65 percent of the 28-nation EU’s population as well
as the European Parliament.  Winning allies against the commission is one of three
options identified by Schaeuble, which include a legal challenge
and delaying progress toward banking union until a new
commission takes over next year that’s more open to German
objections, accroding to Die Welt.  ‘Fully Effective’  Germany is not trying to delay the banking union project, a
Finance Ministry spokesman said on customary condition of
anonymity, declining to comment on the Die Welt article.  “Time and again we’ve made it clear in the negotiations
that we need to set a Europe-wide mechanism in motion quickly
which allows us to wind down large, internationally active
banks,” Flosbach said. “Only then can the new European
supervisory standards be fully effective.”  Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial-services chief, unveiled
a proposal on July 10 for a single resolution mechanism that
gives the commission the power to decide when banks need to be
saved or shut, potentially resulting in the use of public funds.
National governments can veto any resolution decision that
includes possible recourse to the public purse.  In a letter to Barnier dated July 11, Schaeuble said the
commission’s proposal “doesn’t match the current legal,
political and economic realities and would create major risks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  