-- House Ethics Panel Investigates Bachmann, Three Others
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-07-27T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/ethics-panel-investigating-bachmann-three-other-house-members.html
A House investigative panel will
spend the next six weeks scrutinizing four House lawmakers
accused of ethics violations, including Representative  Michele Bachmann  and a member of the Republican leadership.  Bachmann, a Minnesota Republican, has been accused of
financial impropriety in her 2012 presidential campaign,
according to a report in the Minneapolis-based Star Tribune. Two
months ago, Bachmann’s congressional campaign committee agreed
to pay an $8,000 fine to the  Federal Election Commission  for
failing to disclose more than $400,000 in receipts and
expenditures.  Bachmann announced earlier this year that she won’t run for
re-election in 2014.  Dan Kotman, a spokesman for Bachmann, directed questions to
Washington-based attorney Bill McGinley. In an e-mail, he
rejected the allegations as “highly politicized” and expressed
confidence the ethics panel’s inquiry would show them to be
“baseless and without merit.”  The House Ethics Committee  announced  yesterday that it
needed another 45 days to evaluate her case, along with others
targeting Illinois Representative Peter Roskam, the chief deputy
Republican whip, and two Democrats: John Tierney of
 Massachusetts  and  Tim Bishop  of  New York .  The committee’s investigation of Roskam, the chamber’s
fourth-ranking Republican, centers on claims that an October
2011 trip he took with his wife to  Taiwan  was improperly funded
by the Taiwanese government, Politico reported on its website.  ‘Fully Complied’  Roskam’s communications director, Stephanie Genco, said
yesterday that the congressman “fully complied with all laws,
rules, and procedures related to privately sponsored travel”
and that he “fully expects the clear and indisputable facts of
the case to speak for themselves.”  “The trip was vetted and approved by the House Ethics
Committee, the body legally authorized to make determinations on
Congressional conduct,” Genco said in a statement.  Bishop was the focus of complaints from his political
opponent, who questioned whether the incumbent improperly helped
obtain fireworks permits for a campaign contributor. The Ethics
Committee is investigating those allegations, said a Democratic
staff member who asked not to be identified because details
weren’t released.  “As I have said many times, I welcome a fair-minded review
of the facts because I have done nothing wrong,” Bishop said in
a statement.  Tierney faced questions during his 2012 race about money
his wife received from her brother, Robert Eremian, who ran an
illegal gambling business. A statement from Tierney about the
ethics investigation said his wife’s brother gave her the money
as a gift “for caring for their dying mother and his three
children who were without parental supervision.”  “I welcome the opportunity to finally put this issue to
rest after years of my opponents attacking me and my family,”
Tierney said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  