-- European Agency Requires Boeing 787 Beacon Check in Fire Probe
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-26T16:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/european-agency-requires-boeing-787-beacon-check-in-fire-probe.html
European  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 operators
must check the jets’ emergency locator transmitters made by
 Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  as the region’s safety regulator
followed its U.S. counterpart after a July 12 fire in  London .  Airlines must “either remove or inspect the Honeywell ELT,
and take corrective actions if necessary,” the European
Aviation Safety Agency said today in an e-mailed statement. The
plane’s minimum equipment list is being amended to operate for
90 days without beacon, the Cologne, Germany-based agency said.  The fire on an Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise 787 parked at
London’s Heathrow airport was traced to a Honeywell transmitter
powered by a lithium battery. The U.K. Air Accidents
Investigation Branch on July 19 said the device should be
deactivated as the probe into the cause of the blaze continues.  The EASA said that its directive “is an interim measure to
prevent any unsafe condition” and that it “continues to
monitor the situation closely.”  The requirement applies only to European carriers. The
EASA, which typically adopts directives from the U.S. Federal
Aviation Administration, had to issue its own version to reflect
a difference in policy on beacons. The FAA ordered inspections
of the 787 beacons yesterday.  ANA Holdings Inc. (9202)  found damage to a beacon wire on one of
its Dreamliners and has sent the device to Honeywell for
inspection, Megumi Tezuka, a spokeswoman for the Tokyo-based
airline, said today. ANA, the first Dreamliner operator, also
found a dented wire on a portable beacon used on 787s, she said.  Thomson Airways, a Coventry, U.K.-based charter carrier,
removed the Honeywell locators within hours of that nation’s
investigation agency calling for their deactivation.  No Issues  LOT Polish Airlines SA, the first European airline to
receive the jet, said it has made checks after the U.K. agency’s
directive and found no issues. The Warsaw-based airline said in
an e-mailed statement that it’s still seeking compensation from
Chicago-based Boeing.  Norwegian Air Shuttle AS (NAS) , which is based in Fornebu,
 Norway , and operates Dreamliners on lease from International
Lease Finance Corp., couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment.  Qatar Airways Ltd. has taken one of its Dreamliners out of
service for a minor issue with the plane, Madonna Walsh, a
spokeswoman for the Doha-based carrier, said today. She declined
to elaborate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  