-- European Stocks Slide for First Week in Five on Earnings
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-07-26T16:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/european-stocks-slide-for-first-week-in-five-on-earnings.html
European stocks  declined for the
first week in five as worse-than-estimated earnings from BASF SE
and ABB Ltd. raised concern the economic recovery is faltering.  BASF and ABB each fell more than 4.5 percent.  Sulzer (SUN)  AG
slumped 19 percent as it planned to sell a unit.  Siemens AG (SIE)  and
 Metso Oyj (MEO1V)  both declined at least 4.5 percent after cutting their
forecasts.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  and Banco
Santander SA rose as the pace of recession in Spain slowed.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 0.3 percent to 298.91 this
past week. The benchmark gauge has rallied 4.9 percent so far in
July, after its decline in June that was the first in 13 months.
A gauge of expected volatility in euro-area stocks, based on
options prices, rose for the first week in three.  “Results in Europe are coming out as unimpressive,”
Alberto Espelosin, who helps oversee $1.5 billion at Abante
Asesores Gestion in  Madrid , said in a phone interview.
“Analysts will still have to pencil in slower growth. Stocks
haven’t had a strong correction downwards yet and this could
happen any time.”  Analysts have reduced their estimates for annual earnings
at companies listed on the Stoxx 600 by 7.8 percent since the
start of the year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Stoxx 600 plunged 11 percent from May 22 through June
24 amid speculation the Fed will begin tapering bond purchases
as soon as September. The gauge has rebounded 8.4 percent since
then after the Fed and other central banks pledged to continue
stimulus measures.  Economic Data    Sales (NHSLTOT)  of new houses in the U.S. rose more than forecast in
June to the highest level in five years, the Commerce Department
said July 24. The release helped offset data two days earlier
that showed sales of previously owned houses unexpectedly fell
last month.  Manufacturing indexes based on surveys of purchasing
managers rose in the U.S. this month and unexpectedly climbed to
a level that signals expansion in the euro area, London-based
Markit Economics said this week. Chinese manufacturing weakened
further in July, according to a preliminary survey of purchasing
managers.  National benchmark indexes fell in nine of the 18 western
European markets this week. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 slipped 1.1
percent,  France ’s  CAC 40 (CAC)  gained 1.1 percent and  Germany ’s DAX
Index dropped 1 percent.  BASF, ABB  BASF retreated 5.9 percent. The world’s biggest chemical
company said second-quarter earnings before interest, taxes and
one-time items fell 5.4 percent to 1.83 billion euros ($2.41
billion). The average estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg survey
had called for 1.99 billion euros.  ABB slid 4.7 percent. The largest maker of power
transformers posted second-quarter net income of $763 million,
missing the $779-million average estimate of analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Sulzer plunged 19 percent. The Swiss pumpmaker fell on July
23 by the most since October 2008 after saying that it is
exploring a sale of its Metco coatings unit. The company said it
will focus on oil, gas, power and water markets to revive
earnings, as it also cut its full-year forecast.  Siemens dropped 4.5 percent. The company, which makes
products from power turbines to high-speed trains, said July 25
it no longer predicts an operating profit margin of at least 12
percent of sales in the 12 months through September 2014, citing
“lower market expectations.”  Structural Changes  “We are surprised that the stock is not down more given
how central the 12 percent margin target was to the investment
case on Siemens,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by Andreas Willi wrote in a report to investors. A slowdown may spur
speculation of “potential actions” and “structural changes,”
they added.  The stock pared its weekly losses today as Siemens’s board
prepared to meet next week to consider the future of Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  after the company cut its
profit forecast for the fifth time in his six-year tenure.
Separately, Manager Magazin reported Siegfried Russwurm, a
divisional head, may replace Loescher.  Metso Oyj declined 8.1 percent. The Finnish maker of mining
equipment on July 25 reported second-quarter net income that
missed analysts’ estimates and cut its forecast for full-year
sales and pretax earnings, saying uncertainty in the global
economy hurt orders.  German Elections  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG, the German broadcaster controlled
by KKR & Co. and Permira Advisers LLP, tumbled 16 percent.
Liberum Capital Ltd. cut its rating on the stock to hold from
buy, saying Germany’s advertising market may weaken before the
federal Parliamentary election on Sept. 22.  A gauge of banks led gains among the 19 industry groups in
the Stoxx 600 as Spanish lenders rallied. BBVA advanced 9.5
percent, while  Santander (SAN)  climbed 9 percent.  The pace of recession in Spain slowed in the three months
through June, underscoring Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy’s
forecast of a recovery. Gross domestic product shrank 0.1
percent from the first quarter, when it dropped 0.5 percent,
according to the Bank of Spain’s monthly bulletin July 23. That
beat the median estimate of a 0.3 percent decline forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey. Spain will release the official data on
July 30.  Royal KPN NV jumped 19 percent. The largest Dutch phone
company agreed to sell its E-Plus mobile-phone business in
Germany to Spain’s  Telefonica SA (TEF)  in a deal valuing the division
at 8.1 billion euros. Telefonica rose 6.7 percent.  Axel Springer AG (SPR)  surged 16 percent, its biggest weekly
increase since 2003. Europe’s biggest newspaper publisher agreed
to sell regional newspapers and women’s and television magazines
to Funke Mediengruppe GmbH for 920 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 