-- Texas Loses Bid to Stop EPA Takeover of Greenhouse Rules
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-26T20:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/texas-loses-bid-to-stop-epa-takeover-of-greenhouse-rules.html
Texas ’s bid to keep control of its
own greenhouse gas permitting program was rejected by a divided
federal appeals court in a decision that supports a takeover by
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  In a 2-1 ruling, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington
said today that Texas, Wyoming, Peabody Energy Corp. and
industry groups aren’t in a legal position to challenge federal
rules governing the revision of state implementation plans,
known as SIPs. The ruling follows the court’s holding last year
that the EPA’s limits on greenhouse gas emissions are lawful.  The parties cannot show harm because “the permitting
requirements are self-executing” under the  Clean Air Act , U.S.
Circuit Judge  Judith Rogers  wrote in a majority opinion joined
by Judge David Tatel.  Texas sued the agency in 2010 to prevent the EPA from
taking control of the state’s regulation of carbon-emissions
from stationary sources. States were required to regulate
 greenhouse gases  as pollutants in their permitting programs by
January 2011.  Bryan Shaw, chairman of the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality, said it was remarkable that the court
found no harm to the states with respect to the greenhouse gas
rules.  “The EPA has effectively rewritten the Clean Air Act to
impose its new standards, imposed severely restrictive timelines
on the states to implement its new requirements, and then
twisted the act to immediately impose its agenda on Texas,”
Shaw said in an e-mailed statement.  Dissenting Judge  In a dissent, Circuit Judge  Brett Kavanaugh  argued that
under EPA regulations the states should have three years to
revise their plans before any federal intervention. He said the
regulation also doesn’t impose a construction moratorium during
those three years.  It would be “borderline nonsensical” for the EPA to give
a state three years to meet new emissions requirements while
imposing those new standards during that same time, Kavanaugh
said.  “A state that took advantage of the three-year period
would do so at the expense of bringing major construction in the
state to a grinding halt,” Kavanaugh said.  The case is State of Texas v. Environmental Protection
Agency, 10-1425, U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 