-- Mexico Central Bank Unanimous in Holding Rate as Inflation Slows
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-07-26T14:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/mexico-central-bank-unanimous-in-holding-rate-as-inflation-slows.html
Mexican policy makers were unanimous
in their decision to leave  interest rates  unchanged this month
as pressure on inflation eased and the  Federal Reserve  signaled
it may begin to withdraw stimulus in the U.S., the minutes
published today show.  The central bank’s five-member board left borrowing costs
at a record-low 4 percent on July 12 after cutting them in March
for the first time since 2009. The decision was a response to
the risk of a prolonged economic slowdown and the potential for
new inflationary pressures, policy makers said at the time.  The  inflation  rate fell to 3.53 percent in the first half
of July, dropping within the central bank’s target range of 2
percent to 4 percent and backing forecasts by some analysts for
a second rate cut this year. Yields on  six-month interest-rate
swaps  closed at 4.27 percent yesterday, indicating traders see
about a 24 percent chance the bank will lower rates over that
period.  The possibility of the Fed easing its rate of bonds
purchases is “the most important change in the international
environment,” according to the minutes. The board’s decision
was influenced by “the recent development of inflation and its
expectations, the significant slowdown in the Mexican economy,
the fragility of the external environment and the volatility in
international financial markets.”  The bank may be wary of renewed peso weakness after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled in May that the U.S.
could dial back stimulus, sending the currency to a 10-month low
against the dollar on June 20.  Peso Stability  The peso slid 0.9 percent to 12.7212 per  U.S. dollar  at
9:44 a.m. in Mexico City, paring its rally in the past month to
3.5 percent. The currency has risen after Bernanke damped
speculation that the withdrawal will begin soon.  “A stable peso is a necessary condition for a rate cut
from Banxico in September or October,” Ociel Hernandez, the
head of fixed income at Grupo Financiero BBVA Bancomer SA, said
in an e-mailed research note on July 24. The bank forecasts a
cut of a half percentage point, or 50 basis points, to 3.5
percent in September.  The peso yesterday remained 5.3 percent below an almost
two-year high reached in May.  Expectations for future rate moves have reversed over the
past month as the currency strengthened and the inflation rate
fell. On June 21, swap contracts indicated about a 36 percent
chance the bank would increase its benchmark rate within six
months.  Inflation will ease below 4 percent in the second half of
the year, most policy makers said in today’s minutes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 