-- Facebook’s Mobile-Ad Boom Provides Model to Social Sites
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-07-26T20:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/facebook-s-mobile-ad-boom-provides-model-to-social-sites.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s success in mobile
advertising, which is making it a stronger rival to  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
is also providing a model for other social-networking sites such
as Twitter Inc., Pinterest Inc. and Snapchat Inc.  Facebook’s mobile ads generated 41 percent of revenue last
quarter, up from 14 percent a year earlier, helping the company
top second-quarter profit and sales estimates this week. The
results contrasted with earnings from Google and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ,
which both reported lower-than-predicted revenue.  As companies cope with a shift to wireless devices,
Facebook is benefiting from a user base that checks in several
times a day and is willing to accept marketing messages in news
feeds. Twitter is already seeing ads surge with a similar
approach and others such as Snapchat may not be far behind, said
Laura O’Shaughnessy, chief executive officer of SocialCode.  “You will see mobile ad dollars booming as usage heads in
that direction,” said O’Shaughnessy, whose company helps
advertisers buy on social and mobile networks. “ Facebook  made
huge changes to its news feed ads that made them much more
effective, and that’s why there’s more spend there.”  While Google accounts for more than 50 percent of the
world’s mobile-ad market, it’s now growing more slowly than
Facebook. Internet-search ads -- Google’s biggest strength --are
less effective on mobile screens than on desktop computers, said
Scott Kessler, an analyst at S&P Capital IQ in New York.  Lower Pricing  “It’s harder to read,” Kessler said. “People are less
likely to click on it, and there’s lower pricing in a mobile
environment.”  Rob Shilkin, a spokesman for Mountain View, California-based Google, declined to comment.  Twitter, which lets users share 140-character status
updates, also sells ads that appear inside mobile news feeds.
Those ads account for more than half of the company’s revenue on
some days, CEO Dick Costolo has said.  Pinterest, a site for collecting and sharing images, and
Snapchat, a mobile messaging service, haven’t yet introduced
mobile ads. Still, they’re now better poised to do so in the
wake of Facebook’s success, O’Shaughnessy said.  Banner advertising, meanwhile, can be less relevant because
it doesn’t typically target users based on their interests or
habits, Kessler said. Google’s AdMob unit and Apple Inc.’s iAd
service both focus on those kinds of promotions, which often
appear at the top or bottom of a device’s screen.  Bar Bets  Facebook’s mobile application has gained support from
advertisers because it more closely ties ads to the activities
of its 819 million users, said Michael Pachter, an analyst at
Wedbush Securities Inc. in Los Angeles. Facebook, the world’s
largest social-networking site, has 1.15 billion members in
total -- including people who just use it on desktop computers.  “The existence of a Facebook app on your phone makes you
more likely to check on it day in and day out,” Pachter said.
“Google is great in satisfying bar bets. I’m not sure if it’s
as good in Internet ad revenue as Facebook.”  Facebook hones its ad messages by looking at what has
worked in the past with a user’s friends, said George Bell, CEO
of the mobile-ad company Jumptap Inc. That helps generate more
clicks and purchases. Facebook further refines its targeting by
using data from outside marketing firms such as  Acxiom Corp. (ACXM)  and
 Epsilon Corp. (EPSO) , he said.  “They’re on the path to take the social signals conveyed
through actions on Facebook and supplement those with insights
from third parties to paint a richer picture,” Bell said.  ‘Paying Off’  By showing progress in mobile advertising, Facebook’s
quarterly results sent its  shares  up almost 30 percent to $34.36
yesterday for a record one-day gain. That brought the stock
within a few dollars of its May 2012 initial public offering
price. The shares slipped 1 percent to $34.01 today in New York.  “We’re effectively navigating the shift to mobile,”  David Ebersman , chief financial officer of Menlo Park,  California-based Facebook , said in an interview. “All the investments
we’ve been making in the business have been paying off.”  Unlike Google and Apple, which built out their mobile-ad
businesses by acquiring startups, Facebook has relied mostly on
internal development for this piece of its intellectual
property. That may have helped it better customize mobile ads to
its service, said Lars Albright, who co-founded Quattro Wireless
Inc. -- a company sold to Apple in 2010. That startup became the
basis for iAd.  “They are building this all in-house,” said Albright, who
now runs mobile startup SessionM. “They feel that particularly
the targeting piece is so core to their IP and who they are that
they felt best-suited to do it.”  Seeking Scale  The challenge for smaller social-networking companies is
building enough scale to do what Facebook is doing, said Will Margiloff, CEO of IgnitionOne, a marketing-technology company
that analyzes industry trends. For now, there aren’t many
services with enough mobile users, he said.  “Facebook’s strategy can’t be replicated elsewhere, except
maybe Twitter,” Margiloff said. “The platform itself lends
itself well to mobile as it already has so many mobile users.”  Luis Caballero, chief operating officer of media-buying
firm Blinq Media LLC, sees more advertisers shifting their
budgets to Facebook. That’s coming at the expense of Google, he
said.  Marketers increased their mobile-advertising budgets for
Facebook’s mobile app to about 24 percent last month from 10
percent in January, he estimates.  “Advertisers are definitely going heavier on Facebook
right now,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  