-- First Strut Chairman’s Murder Was Contract Killing, Star Reports
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s   a n d   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-07-26T14:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/first-strut-chairman-s-murder-was-contract-killing-star-reports.html
The murder of First Strut Ltd.
Chairman Jeff Wiggill was a “hit,” the Johannesburg-based  Star 
reported, citing one of the men arrested for his shooting.  The man told the Protea Magistrate’s Court in his bail
application that he was going to be paid 100,000 rand ($10,262)
to kill Wiggill, the newspaper reported. The man, who was
released on bail on July 15, said he didn’t know where the money
was coming from, the Star reported.  Calls to the court in Soweto, southwest of Johannesburg, by
 Bloomberg News  weren’t answered. Paul Ramaloko, a spokesman for
the investigations unit of the South African Police Service,
didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone today.  Wiggill, 59 was found last month next to his car in Soweto
with bullet wounds to his head, the South African Press
Association reported June 20. While his wallet and mobile phone
were missing, the motive for the killing was unknown, SAPA said,
citing police captain, Augustinah Selepe.  First Strut, a manufacturer supplying the transport, mining
and power industries, was placed in provisional liquidation on
July 16, said John Louw, business rescue practitioner for the
5,000-person firm. First Strut, which owes  Investec Plc (INVP)  240
million rand and  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA)  30 million rand, has 925
million rand of floating-rate notes outstanding, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Police are investigating the possibility that Wiggill
arranged his own murder, according to the Star.  On the night of Sept. 27, 2005, South African mining
magnate  Brett Kebble  was shot seven times in his silver Mercedes
S600 in Johannesburg. The trial five years later of one of his
alleged killers showed that Kebble, who had been forced to
resign as head of three mining companies and faced a probe after
assets worth hundreds of millions of dollars went missing from
 Randgold & Exploration Ltd. (RNG) , had become a suicidal recluse and
had ordered his own shooting to avoid a possible jail sentence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  