-- Forsa Says Merkel’s Re-Election Chances Helped by New Parties
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-07-26T15:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/forsa-says-merkel-s-re-election-chances-helped-by-new-parties.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
aim to prolong her coalition’s rule after Sept. 22 national
elections is getting a boost from the entry of new political
parties to the campaign, polling company  Forsa  GmbH said.  Votes drawn by fledgling parties including the anti-euro
Alternative for  Germany  lower the threshold Merkel needs for a
majority to as little as about 45 percent, Peter Matuschek,
Forsa’s chief political analyst, said today in an interview.  Two months before the vote, Merkel’s Christian Democratic
bloc and its Free Democratic coalition partner had a combined 46
percent in each of three polls published this week. One poll, by
Infratest dimap, gave the CDU/CSU alone 42 percent, an increase
of almost eight percentage points on the last election in 2009.  “Merkel-party-only rule after the election would be
unrealistic, but the snapshots of voter intentions give a strong
signal that her coalition will hold office,” Berlin-based
Matuschek said by phone. “And crowding of the race by smaller
parties is a help, not the hindrance that it could be.”  Smaller political groups such as  the Pirate s party, which
ran in 2009 for the first time, campaigning for digital
liberties, together took 6 percent at the last election. Now,
support for parties that polls show probably won’t win
parliamentary seats is as much as 12 percent, mainly at the
expense of Merkel’s FDP ally, which is polling about 5 percent
after taking almost 15 percent in 2009. Parties need to win 5
percent to gain seats in parliament.  Merkel’s CDU/CSU held at 41 percent for the fifth straight
week in the latest Forsa poll published on July 24, while the
opposition  Social Democratic Party  of her main challenger,  Peer Steinbrueck , dropped a point to 22 percent.  The Free Democrats were unchanged at 5 percent and the
SPD’s Green party allies lost two points to 12 percent. The
anti-capitalist Left Party had 9 percent, up a point. The
Pirates, the AfD and “others” had a combined 11 percent. Forsa
polled 2,500 voters on July 15-19. The results have a margin of
error of about 2.5 percentage points.  As many as 38 parties may contest seats in the lower house,
the Bundestag, the Federal Election Authority  said  on July 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  