-- Fortinet Value Detected After Pricey Cisco Deal: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-07-26T20:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/fortinet-value-detected-after-pricey-cisco-deal-real-m-a.html
After  Cisco (CSCO)  Systems Inc. paid the
highest multiple since 2002 for  Sourcefire Inc. (FIRE) , investors are
betting other Internet security providers such as  Fortinet Inc. (FTNT) 
can also win premium valuations in a sale.  Cisco agreed this week to buy anti-hacking technology maker
Sourcefire for about $2.7 billion, or 12 times revenue,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. William Blair & Co.
said the next probable targets are Fortinet and  Imperva Inc. (IMPV) ,
which rose to a three-month and record high, respectively, after
Cisco’s deal even though they trade for two of the group’s
highest valuations, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  On the Web, “you’re seeing an increased number of attacks,
you’re seeing increased sophistication of attacks and frankly
the cost associated with this is reaching a very meaningful
level,” Rob Owens, a Portland, Oregon-based analyst at Pacific
Crest Securities, said in a phone interview. “Some of the large
tech bellwethers will be willing to pay higher price tags for
the opportunity” to profit from that trend.  Technology companies are bolstering their cybersecurity
offerings to serve corporations and governments coping with
attacks on their computers. Fortinet, a $3.4 billion maker of
firewalls, could fetch an 86 percent premium to yesterday’s
stock price in a sale, FBR & Co. said. Oppenheimer Holdings Inc.
sees  Palo Alto Networks Inc. (PANW) , which analysts estimate will boost
sales faster than every peer but one through 2015, as another
attractive acquisition.  Highest Multiple  Rick Popko, a spokesman for Sunnyvale, California-based
Fortinet, declined to comment on whether it would be interested
in selling itself. A representative for Santa Clara, California-based Palo Alto Networks said the company didn’t immediately
have a comment. A representative for Redwood Shores, California-based Imperva didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Cisco’s bid for Sourcefire valued the company at about $2.7
billion including retention incentives, or 12 times the $233
million in  revenue  it posted in the past year. That’s the
highest multiple paid for a U.S. Internet security provider in
more than a decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The high price tag highlights the increasing importance of
Internet security services as corporations and governments seek
better protection from hackers, according to  Daniel Ives , a New
York-based managing director and analyst at FBR. International
Business Machines Corp.,  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  and EMC Corp. are
likely to follow Cisco’s lead and strike deals for cybersecurity
operators, he said.  Hacking Charges  After a U.S. Federal Reserve website was breached and
denial-of-service attacks disrupted banks, President  Barack Obama  issued a Feb. 12 executive order directing the government
to develop voluntary cybersecurity standards for companies
operating the nation’s vital infrastructure. Yesterday, the U.S.
charged five people for stealing more than 160 million credit
card numbers in what prosecutors called the largest hacking and
data breach scheme in American history.  “Hacking has become a major risk,” Ives said in a phone
interview. The need to protect data “has gone from, ‘Maybe
we’ll have that,’ to ‘We need to have that as an organization.’
That’s what’s fueling the growth and that’s what’s fueling”
takeover interest.  Fortinet and Imperva, a $1.2 billion company that sells
data-security software, are the most likely next targets, said
Jonathan Ho, a Chicago-based analyst at William Blair.  After the Sourcefire acquisition was announced, Fortinet
jumped 4.8 percent on July 23 to $21.43, the highest  price  since
April, while Imperva rose 3.5 percent to what was then a  record
high  of $49.66.  Not Cheap  Today, Fortinet shares fell 1.2 percent to $20.73. Imperva
lost 0.6 percent to $50.78.  “They’re large assets that can move the needle for some of
the bigger organizations,” Ho said in a phone interview.  A deal for either wouldn’t be cheap. Fortinet’s price-sales
ratio of 6.1 yesterday was higher than 69 percent of computer
peripherals and infrastructure software companies valued at more
than $1 billion, while Imperva’s multiple of almost 11 topped 93
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fortinet could fetch $39 a share in a takeover based on the
amount paid for Sourcefire, FBR’s Ives said. Oppenheimer’s Shaul Eyal estimates as much as $50, or more than double yesterday’s
closing price, and said Cisco could want Fortinet to further
bolster its security  offerings .  For Cisco, “Sourcefire basically brought access to the
high-end security markets,” New York-based Eyal said. If Cisco
Chief Executive Officer John Chambers wants to supplement that,
“Fortinet is the way to do it.”  Tripling Revenue  Robyn Jenkins-Blum, a spokeswoman for San Jose, California-based Cisco, declined to comment.  Palo Alto Networks, which has a market value of $3.5
billion, may also be an attractive target, according to Eyal and
Michael Turits, a New York-based analyst at Raymond James
Financial Inc.  Analysts project the company will generate $713 million of
 sales  in fiscal 2015, almost triple the amount in fiscal 2012,
according to the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s a faster growth rate than 97 percent of similar-sized
peers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Qualys Inc. (QLYS) , a $507 million maker of cloud-based security
technology, and  Proofpoint Inc. (PFPT) , a $917 million developer of
compliance software, may appeal to technology companies such as
Juniper, said Frederick Ziegel, a Petoskey, Michigan-based
analyst at Topeka Capital Markets Inc.  Playing Chess  Juniper “will continue to look at acquisitions in a
variety of areas and make investments where we believe they will
align with our overall strategy,” said Cindy Ta, a spokeswoman
for the Sunnyvale, California-based company.  Dave Farmer, a spokesman for Hopkinton, Massachusetts-based
EMC, declined to comment on the company’s acquisition strategy,
while noting its purchases of Internet security providers
including Aveksa Inc. James Sciales, a spokesman for Armonk, New
York-based  IBM (IBM) , also declined to comment, while Sunnyvale,
California-based Proofpoint didn’t respond to a request for
comment.  “There’s a huge consolidation taking place in the
enterprise security” industry, Philippe Courtot, the chairman
and CEO of Redwood City, California-based Qualys, said in a
phone interview. He declined to comment on whether his company
would sell itself.  Today, shares of Palo Alo Networks fell 1.1 percent to
$49.29, while Qualys’s stock price was unchanged at $16.01.
Proofpoint advanced 3.3 percent to $26.93.  Following Cisco’s Sourcefire deal, the need to stay
competitive may be enough for companies such as IBM, Juniper and
EMC to justify expensive deals, said Ives of FBR.  “It’s a game of chess,” he said. “Cisco made the first
move, and the other vendors can’t just sit there twiddling their
thumbs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  