-- George Mitchell, Billionaire Behind Shale Boom, Dies at 94
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-07-26T18:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/george-mitchell-billionaire-behind-u-s-shale-boom-dies-at-94.html
George P. Mitchell, the  Texas 
billionaire who pioneered shale-drilling techniques that
triggered a renaissance in North American oil and natural gas
production, has died. He was 94.  He died today at his residence in the Tremont Hotel in
Galveston, Texas, according to Franklin “Rusty” Carnes, at the
 Carnes Brothers Funeral Home  in Galveston. He died of natural
causes, his family said in a statement.  Mitchell’s innovative use of horizontal wells and hydraulic
fracturing in the 1990s to release gas from a previously-impermeable rock formation near  Fort Worth , Texas, earned him
the nickname the “father of the  Barnett Shale .” Those drilling
breakthroughs revolutionized oil and gas exploration from
 Pennsylvania  to  Poland  and the Yukon Territory to  Argentina .  “My engineers kept telling me, ‘You are wasting your
money, Mitchell,” he told Forbes in 2009. “And I said, ‘Well
damn it, let’s figure this thing out, because there is no
question there is a tremendous source bed that’s about 250 feet
thick.’”  As other companies adopted Mitchell’s techniques, U.S. gas
 production  rose 25 percent in the past decade, pushing prices to
a 10-year low in April 2012. The nation now has an estimated 890
trillion cubic feet equivalent of recoverable natural gas,
according to ITG Investment Research. That’s enough fuel for
almost 40 years at current consumption rates.  As the same methods were applied to  oil fields , crude
production has more than quadrupled in places such as the Bakken
formation in  North Dakota  and  Montana  in the past three years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  Sold Company  Mitchell sold his company, Mitchell Energy & Development
Corp., to  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  in 2002 for about $3 billion,
becoming one of the largest shareholders of the Oklahoma City-based gas and oil producer. Forbes magazine ranked him the
239th-richest American in 2012.  The oilman focused on real estate earlier in his career,
developing a suburb north of Houston out of 25,000 acres of pine
forest. The Woodlands, which opened in 1974, now has a
population of 100,000 and includes a mall, a 1.4-mile (2.3-kilometer) winding waterway and the 30-story headquarters of
Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  Exxon Mobil  Corp., based in Irving,
Texas, is building a 3 million-square-foot campus there.  Mitchell sold the development in 1997 to a partnership of
Crescent Real Estate Equities Co. and Morgan Stanley Real Estate
Fund II.  Showed ‘Guts’  Mitchell had the “guts” to do certain things that other
people would be too scared to do, said Michael Richmond, who
worked for Mitchell for 25 years, eventually retiring as chief
executive officer of the real-estate company that developed The
Woodlands.  “George didn’t like to hear the answer, ‘No,’” Richmond
said. “He always wanted to hear the answer, ‘How.’ You had to
figure out solutions to any issue that was on the table.”  “The Woodlands is a beautiful project,” Mitchell said in
a March 2009 interview in his downtown Houston office. “But
energy has been my background.”  George Phydias Mitchell was born in Galveston on May 21,
1919. His parents, Mike and Katina Mitchell, who had come to the
U.S. from  Greece  separately around 1900, ran a shoeshine parlor
in Galveston. His father, soon after arriving in the U.S., took
the name Mike Mitchell from an employer handing out paychecks
who couldn’t say his real name, Savvas Paraskevopoulos,
according to an article in the Houston Chronicle.  Early Passion  Mitchell developed a passion for oil and gas while working
in the oil fields for his older brother, Johnny, around the age
of 17. He graduated in 1940 with a degree in petroleum
engineering and an emphasis in geology from the Agricultural and
Mechanical College of Texas, an institution now known as  Texas
A&M University , in  College Station , Texas.  After serving as a captain in the U.S.  Army Corps  of
Engineers during World War II, Mitchell in 1946 joined a newly
formed oil exploration company, Oil Drilling. That eventually
became Mitchell Energy & Development Corp., which went public in
1972. Mitchell and his brother were early partners in the
company.  Mitchell participated in about 10,000 wells over his
career. His company drilled its first well in the Barnett Shale
in 1981 and developed fracturing and horizontal-drilling
techniques to unlock gas trapped beneath hundreds of feet of
rock, according to Mitchell’s company.  In his late 80s, Mitchell turned his attention back to
another shale play, this time bankrolling rigs in the Marcellus
Shale in Pennsylvania for a company headed by his son, Todd, and
Joe Greenberg, a geologist. The Marcellus Shale has since
emerged as the largest U.S. gas resource, holding the equivalent
of 330 trillion cubic feet of recoverable gas, according to ITG.  Abundant Gas  The new abundance of cheap gas transformed the U.S.
industrial landscape, prompting new investment in  power plants 
that use gas to generate electricity and accelerating the demise
of older coal and nuclear plants that were more expensive to
repair and operate.  Chemical manufacturers including Exxon Mobil that use gas
as the raw material for their products planned to build new
plants in the U.S. to take advantage of the new resources.
Pipeline networks to carry the newfound gas to market multiplied
across the country. And gas drillers promoted natural gas
powered trucks and cars for the nation’s highways and roads.  Import facilities built earlier in the 2000’s, when
concerns in the U.S. focused on dwindling oil and gas supplies,
are now seeking to add export terminals to send U.S. gas
overseas in the form of liquefied natural gas.  ‘A Visionary’  “He was a visionary,” said James Rebello, who worked at
Prudential Securities when it financed a small part of the
exploration and production side of Mitchell’s group. Rebello and
his colleagues told Mitchell they could lend him more if he
combined the oil & gas business with the real estate unit.  “But he was adamant that he wanted to keep those
separate,” Rebello said. “He was right, and it worked out in
the long run.”  Mitchell donated more than $175 million, with the largest
gifts going to  Texas A&M , the  University of Houston  and M.D.
Anderson Cancer Center. A tennis center at Texas A&M bears his
name. His wife, Cynthia, who died in 2009, helped develop the
Cynthia Woods Mitchell Pavilion, an outdoor concert venue, in
The Woodlands.  In addition to his “great love” for The Woodlands,
Richmond said, Mitchell had “an enormous passion” for his
hometown of Galveston, Texas, where he bought and renovated
older buildings in the downtown area.  Mitchell met his wife while in the Army and married her in
1943. They had 10 children -- Pamela Maguire, Meredith Dreiss,
Scott Mitchell, Sheridan Lorenz,  Mark Mitchell , Kent Mitchell,
Greg Mitchell, Kirk Mitchell,  Todd Mitchell  and Grant Mitchell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  