-- GM to Ford Pension Gains Frees Cash for Fusion-Like Hits
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-07-26T04:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/gm-to-ford-pension-gains-frees-cash-for-fusion-like-hits.html
While drawing car buyers and praise
from the likes of Consumer Reports,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Ford
Motor Co. are getting a grip on pensions that will free up cash
to develop future hits.  GM and Ford, burdened by some of the largest pension
obligations among all U.S. companies, said this week they see
significant improvement in their plans because of rising
interest rates used to calculate the cost of future payments to
retirees. When rates rise, the cost today of those promises
declines. So pension shortfalls that were many years in the
making can shrink without ever-larger payments by the companies.  Over the long term, this should allow more spending on the
core business and less on retirees. That in turn creates a
brighter outlook for the companies, which are already delivering
more competitive cars like the Chevrolet Impala and Ford Fusion,
and better-than-estimated profits.  “It’s one less thing investors have to worry about on the
risk side,” said Michael Razewski, a New York-based principal
at Douglas C. Lane & Associates, which oversees $3.1 billion,
including Ford shares. “The less Ford has to focus on funding
the pension, the more they can focus on driving innovative
products and services and meeting customer demand.”  Confounding Challenge  GM and Ford have shelled out heavily for years to try to
shore up their pensions, one of their most confounding
challenges. Ford plans to make $5 billion in cash pension
contributions this year, on top of $3.4 billion last year and
$1.1 billion in 2011. This year’s payments are just shy of the
 $5.5 billion  that Ford devoted to capital spending last year on
everything from building factories to developing future cars and
trucks.  “We won’t have to allocate as much capital to pensions as
we have the last couple of years and certainly this year,” Bob Shanks, chief financial officer of Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford,
said during a July 24 conference call with analysts and
reporters. “That will give us the ability to take the cash that
we’re generating and invest it in other parts of the business
that can support further growth.”  Ford’s pension plans were underfunded by $18.7 billion last
year. Only Detroit-based GM, with a shortfall of $27.8 billion,
General Electric Co. and Boeing Co. had bigger holes at the end
of 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’ve made good progress since the end of last year from
a pension-funded position perspective, given the rise in
interest rates that’s clearly helped our overall funding
position,” GM CFO Dan Ammann told reporters yesterday. On a
conference call with analysts, he said the stronger fund “gives
us more rather than less flexibility.”  $900 Million  GM isn’t required to make any contributions to its U.S.
plans this year, according to last year’s annual report. The
company said it expects to pay in about $900 million anyway.  Both automakers have taken big steps to contain their
pension costs for salaried workers. A year ago, GM said it would
spend as much as $4.5 billion to shift salaried retirees to a
group annuity handled by a unit of Prudential Financial Inc. The
annuity, and lump-sum buyout offers to 42,000 retirees, was
forecast by GM to shave $26 billion from its pension load.  Ford is also offering lump-sum buyouts to salaried retirees.
The automaker has said it wants to eliminate remaining
shortfalls in its pension funds by mid-decade.  Fed Actions  For several years, GM and Ford could blame Treasury yields,
a benchmark in their pension calculation, for at least part of
their shortfalls. Yields plunged after the 2008 financial crisis
as the Federal Reserve embarked on unprecedented bond-purchase
programs to lower borrowing costs and encourage spending.  Interest rates have risen the last two months after Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said the central bank may reduce
its asset purchases this year and stop in the middle of 2014 if
economic growth meets policy makers’ projections.  The increase in rates will help reduce the funding needs at
all types of pensions, whether run by corporations or
governments.  Detroit , long dubbed the Motor City, this month
filed the largest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history and is
struggling under a large unfunded pension obligation that could
lead to benefit cuts for 30,000 current and former city workers.
Though shortfalls can develop in the private sector, companies
have stricter funding requirements than governments and pay into
a federal insurance fund.  ‘Best Year’  “If the year ended today, this would be the best year for
funded status in the 13-year history of the Milliman Pension
Funding Index,” said John Ehrhardt, a New York-based principal
and consulting actuary for Milliman Inc., which tracks corporate
pension performance.  For GM, each increase of 1 percentage point in the discount
rate cuts $8.76 billion from the present value of its U.S.
pension obligation, according to its 2012 annual report. A
similar increase would reduce Ford’s U.S. total obligation by
$5.2 billion, its regulatory filing shows.  Ford has seen a 70 to 80 basis-point rise in U.S. discount
rates this year, Shanks said this week. An increase at the top
of that range would narrow Ford’s pension gap by 42 percent to
$10.8 billion by the end of this year, Matthew Stover, an auto
analyst with Guggenheim Securities, wrote in a report yesterday.  By 2015, GM may reduce its pension shortfall by 24 percent
to $21 billion, Ryan Brinkman, a New York-based auto analyst for
JPMorgan Chase & Co., estimated in a July 15 report.  Pension Health  The current value of promised future payments is only part
of the total pension equation. The investment return is also
important in assessing a plan’s health. GM and Ford have said
they were trying to take some of the risk out of their plans by
moving to a greater mix of fixed-income assets.  It’s unclear whether higher rates might damp the returns on
Ford’s and GM’s investments, said Brian Johnson, a Chicago-based
auto analyst for Barclays Plc.  “It depends on the extent to which they might reduce some
of these long-dated bond holdings we believe they built up over
the last couple years, which served them well when rates were
falling,” he said in a telephone interview.  Ford said this week that it expects to meet or exceed last
year’s $8 billion in pretax profit, helped by the Fusion family
car, which climbed to No. 7 in U.S. sales in the first half from
outside the top 10 a year earlier, according to researcher
Autodata Corp.  Beating analyst estimates in its second-quarter profit, GM
is riding one of the biggest waves of new models in its history.
The redesigned Chevrolet Impala, among 18 new or refreshed GM
vehicles arriving in U.S. showrooms this year, was rated by
Consumer Reports yesterday as the best sedan on the market -- a
first for a U.S. automaker in at least 20 years.  “What’s so interesting about the automakers now is that
they have started to really think about the business that
they’re supposed to be doing,” Jody Lurie, a corporate credit
analyst for Janney Capital Markets in Philadelphia, said by
phone. “They can focus now on how to be the best in the actual
business of auto-making.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  