-- Google Loses Bid to Delay U.K. Trial Until After EU Probe
-- B y   N i c o l e   M o r t i m e r
-- 2013-07-26T15:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/google-loses-bid-to-delay-u-k-trial-until-after-eu-probe.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  lost a bid to delay
proceedings in a London antitrust case until after the
resolution of a European Union investigation triggered by the
same company that filed the U.K. lawsuit.  Judge Peter Roth told Google in a ruling today to provide
Foundem, a shopping comparison website, with documents related
to four of five allegations in the lawsuit. Google, based in
 Mountain View , California, had argued that further European
Commission findings might negate some of Foundem’s claims.  Postponing disclosure until after an eventual decision by
the EU “and potential appeals, would cause several years’
delay,” Roth said.  Foundem ’s complaint to EU regulators that Google stifles
innovation for so-called vertical search services helped spur an
almost three-year-old antitrust investigation into whether the
world’s largest search engine discriminates against rivals in
its search results. EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia 
last week said he wrote to Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  to ask
the company to improve its settlement offer.  Lawyers at Google’s law firm, Bristows LLP, declined to
comment. Jenny Craig, an outside spokeswoman for Google,
declined to immediately comment.  Foundem sued Google a year ago in London, arguing it had
been penalized in Google’s search results because it offers a
competing shopping comparison service.  Roth told both Google and Foundem, citing statistics from
the EU probe, to prepare for a trial based on an assumption that
Google was the dominant provider in the search market. He also
said that if Google won on Foundem’s claim that the company
abused its position, the rest of the case would be dismissed.  Foundem is a member of ICOMP, a Brussels-based industry
coalition that includes  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , owner of the Bing
search engine.  Lawyers representing Foundem didn’t immediately comment.  The case is Infederation v. Google, High Court of Justice,
 Chancery Division , No. HC12A02489.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Mortimer in London at 
 nmortimer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  