-- IMF Sees Market Volatility Risk in Fed’s Exit From Record Easing
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-07-26T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/imf-sees-market-volatility-risk-in-fed-s-exit-from-record-easing.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
cautioned that the U.S. Federal Reserve’s exit from
unprecedented  asset purchases  could spur market reactions
causing “excessive” interest-rate volatility.  That would have “adverse global implications,” the fund’s
board of directors said today in a statement, part of an annual
review of the world’s largest economy. “Effective communication
on the exit strategy and a careful calibration of its timing
will be critical for reducing these risks,” the Washington-based fund said.  The IMF left its U.S. growth forecast for this year
unchanged at 1.7 percent, saying the housing and labor markets
are improving even as the Fed’s decision looms and fiscal policy
remains a drag on growth. The fund projected 2014 growth of 2.7
percent, also unchanged from a report earlier this month.  The Fed is considering reducing its $85 billion in monthly
bond purchases even with unemployment at 7.6 percent and the
Fed’s preferred inflation index showing prices rising 1 percent
from a year earlier, below the central bank’s 2 percent goal.
The Fed’s policy-making committee next meets July 30-31.  The Fed has said economic data will determine the timing
and pace of any reduction in monthly bond-buying, known as
quantitative easing. The central bank may start trimming
purchases in September, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  ‘Essential Support’  While accommodative policy “continues to provide essential
support to the recovery,” the IMF board said, “its financial
stability implications should be carefully assessed” because a
long period of extremely low  interest rates  could have
unintended consequences for financial stability and complicates
macro-policy in some  emerging markets . The Fed has kept the main
interest rate close to zero since December 2008.  The IMF also warned that “fiscal  deficit reduction  in 2013
is excessively rapid,” and that automatic spending cuts, called
sequestration, could lower medium-term potential growth.  The board welcomed improvement in the U.S. housing and
labor markets, and “agreed that the rebound of the housing
market has benefited from monetary policy actions” and
government-backed programs promoting refinancing and loan
modification. The fund also “saw room for policies that
continue to support the housing market,” the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  