-- India’s Nifty Futures Climb, Signaling Rally From Two-Day Slump
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-07-26T01:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/india-s-nifty-futures-climb-signaling-rally-from-two-day-slump.html
Indian stock-index futures gained,
signaling benchmark indexes may rally after the biggest two-day
loss in a month.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for August delivery rose 0.3
percent to 5,962 at 9:46 a.m. in Singapore. The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index plunged 1.4 percent to 5,907.50 yesterday, the
lowest level since July 10. The S&P BSE Sensex tumbled 1.4
percent. The Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR Index of U.S.-
traded shares rose 0.6 percent.  The Sensex has lost 2.5 percent in the past two days,
heading for its first weekly loss in five weeks, after the
 Reserve Bank  of India tightened banks’ access to cash on July 23
to steady a weakening rupee. The moves should not be seen as
indicating a forthcoming major shift in monetary policy,
 Raghuram Rajan , the Finance Ministry’s chief economic adviser,
said yesterday. The central bank meets for its next review on
July 30.  “At best, we can see some bounce-back due to the sharp
fall over two days, and there may be some buying in beaten-down
sectors or in stocks where earnings have positively surprised,”
 Arun Kejriwal , director at Kejriwal Research & Investment
Services, said by phone from Mumbai yesterday. “Investors will
resist from taking big bets ahead of the RBI review next week.”  Earnings Reports  The central bank raised two  interest rates  and drained
liquidity in the past two weeks, joining nations including
Brazil and Indonesia in tightening policy to check currency
volatility. RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao maintained interest
rates at the last policy meeting in June, citing persistent
inflation risks, after cutting the benchmark  repurchase  rate
three times this year to spur an economy that grew at the
slowest pace in a decade in the year ended March 31.  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) , India’s third-biggest software exporter, may
report today profit of 16.15 billion rupees ($273 million) for
the quarter ended June 30, compared with 15.8 billion a year
earlier, according to the median estimate of 38 analysts in a
Bloomberg Survey.  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , India’s biggest household products
maker, may announce first-quarter net income of 8.67 billion
rupees, compared with 13.3 billion rupees a year earlier,
according to the median of 34 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
Earnings for the same period last year were higher because of a
one-time gain from some real estate sales.  Four of the 11 Sensex members that have posted earnings so
far for the June quarter missed analyst estimates. About 27
percent of companies in the measure missed forecasts for the
three months ended March, and 43 percent in the quarter through
December, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Sensex has gained 2 percent this year and  trades  at
13.9 times projected 12-month earnings, compared with the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index’s 10 times.  Global funds  sold a net $65.8 million of local shares on
July 24, paring this year’s net purchases to $12.3 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. They have sold $1.02 billion of
 Indian (SENSEX)  stocks this month, the most among 10 Asian markets
tracked by Bloomberg, extending June’s $1.8 billion sell-off.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  