-- India’s SBI Warns Solar Tariff Cut Will Curtail Funding
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-07-26T11:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/india-s-sbi-warns-solar-tariff-cut-will-curtail-funding.html
State Bank of India , the nation’s
biggest lender, is drafting a letter to a state regulator
warning that a move to backtrack on contracts by reducing the
price of solar power will curb investment.  The state buyer of solar power in Gujarat state is seeking
approval to cut the rate paid to plants by 28 percent. The
Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission is evaluating whether
to accept the case. A decision is due next month.  The petition alone will have “an adverse impact on
investors’ outlook,” Rajat Misra, senior vice president of the
infrastructure group at SBI Capital Markets Ltd., which is the
lender’s investment banking arm, said in an interview in Mumbai.
“It only takes a couple of projects to go back for the entire
sector to fall through.”  SBI Capital has arranged funding for 95 megawatts of solar
capacity. Those are mostly for projects in Gujarat owned by
developers such as  Tata Power Co. (TPWR) ,  France ’s Solairedirect SA,
billionaire Vinod Khosla-backed SunBorne Energy Holdings LLC,
and Kiran Energy Solar Power Pvt. whose investors include
Bessemer Venture Partners, according to Misra.  Debt Repayments  The projects were based on assumptions, including tariffs
that wouldn’t be revised during the 25-year power purchase
agreements, Misra said.  “If that changes, the entire financials of the companies
would change,” he said. “They’ll barely be able to service
their debt. That’s not a happy situation for both financers and
the developers.”  The Indian state joins jurisdictions like Spain,  Greece ,
 Romania  and the Czech Republic also working on retrospective
cuts for solar power. Spain, after installing the most capacity
worldwide in 2008, stalled growth in the industry by capping the
number of hours solar plants could earn preferential rates and
holding up new installations.  Reopening contracts is always damaging, especially in a new
industry that’s struggling to gain investor confidence, Misra
said. Project finance, where the lender is repaid from the
plant’s revenue and has no claim on other assets, has been more
difficult to raise, he said.  “It’s especially negative for something like the solar
industry, where non-recourse lending only just started two years
back,” Misra said. “We had to work very hard to convince
lenders about the technology since it was new for the Indian
market.”  The petition submitted by power buyer Gujarat Urja Vikas
Nigam Ltd. seeks to lower the average megawatt-hour price to
9,000 rupees ($152) from 12,540 rupees for projects comprising
857 megawatts of capacity. SunBorne Energy Holdings LLC and
 Moser Baer India Ltd. (MBI)  are among more than 80 developers that may
be impacted who are fighting to dismiss the petition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  