-- India Rupee Completes Third Weekly Gain After RBI Tightens Cash
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-07-26T11:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/india-rupee-heads-for-third-weekly-gain-after-rbi-tightens-cash.html
India ’s rupee completed its third
weekly gain, the longest winning streak since February, after
the central bank tightened the supply of cash to arrest a slide
in the currency.  The Reserve Bank of India has raised two interest rates and
restricted lenders’ access to funds in the past two weeks,
pushing the benchmark 10-year bond yield to a 14-month high and
leading to debt-sale failures. The measures “should be seen not
as a precursor to a substantial change in monetary stance,
which, thus far, has been on the easing side,” Raghuram Rajan,
the top adviser in the finance ministry, said yesterday in an
interview with Bloomberg India TV. The steps should be
sufficient, he said.  “Such comments are, indeed, what markets would like to
hear, as they improve communication of policy intentions,”
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong
Kong, said in an e-mail interview today. “The measures amount
to significant tightening and were a mistake as their negative
impact on market rates, confidence and growth will be bigger
than the positive impact on the rupee.”  The rupee advanced 0.5 percent this week to 59.0425 per
dollar in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks compiled
by Bloomberg. The currency, which plunged to an unprecedented
61.2125 on July 8, rose 0.1 percent today and touched 58.7025,
the strongest level since June 19.  RBI Steps  Global funds have cut holdings of Indian debt by $9 billion
since May 22, when the Federal Reserve first signaled it could
curb asset purchases that have boosted demand for emerging-market assets.  The RBI capped the amount lenders can borrow in daily
repurchase auctions at 0.5 percent of their deposits, it said in
a July 23 statement. The authority also raised the daily balance
requirement for lenders’ cash-reserve ratios to 99 percent from
70 percent effective July 27. The moves follow steps announced
July 15, when the RBI raised its bank rate and marginal standing
facility rate to 10.25 percent from 8.25 percent. It left the
main repurchase rate unchanged as the economy grows at the
slowest pace in a decade.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, fell 15 basis
points, or 0.15 percentage point, this week to 11.65 percent.
The rate fell 10 basis points today.  Forwards Rise  “By stabilizing the rupee, we will also enhance the
possibility of stronger growth,” the finance ministry’s Rajan
said. “Because the inflationary consequence will be contained
and, hopefully over time, that will give RBI room to be more
accommodative.”  Rajan’s comments probably aim to “calm the market’s
nerves,” Credit Agricole’s Kowalczyk said. The RBI will keep
the  benchmark rate  at 7.25 percent at a July 30 review,
according to all 28 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards were little changed
today at 60.60 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Offshore non-deliverable contracts were steady at 60.40.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  