-- Unilever Unit’s Sales Growth Slows on Weaker India Economy
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-07-26T09:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/hindustan-unilever-sales-growth-slows-as-india-economy-weakens.html
Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , the Indian
unit of the world’s second-biggest consumer-goods company,
reported the slowest sales growth in more than three years as
 India ’s economy weakened. The stock fell the most since 2009.  Sales rose 7 percent in the quarter ended June, the weakest
pace since December 2009, according to exchange filings.  India’s economy grew at its slowest pace in a decade last
fiscal year and that has led to softer consumer demand for the
company’s premium soaps and shampoos, said Nitin Mathur,
consumer analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank. Sales volume
at the seller of Dove soap and Surf detergent rose 4 percent in
the quarter,  compared  to 9 percent growth in the same period
last year.  “The volumes fell to the lower end of the street
expectations, and that’s not good by any standards,” Mumbai-based Mathur said in a telephone interview.  “Growth rates are
tapering sharply in personal care products.”  Sales of personal care products like creams and lotions
rose 2 percent to 18.8 billion rupees.  The lesser-than-expected sales growth was largely a result
of a “sharp decline” in demand for its Fair & Lovely fairness
cream, Chief Financial Officer Sridhar Ramamurthy said in a
conference call today.  “There are near-term challenges in the
Indian FMCG market with respect to slowing growth of the market
and volatility.’’  New CEO  Chief Executive Officer Nitin Paranjpe will move to parent
Unilever on Oct. 1 to become president of its global home care
businesses, according to an e-mailed statement today. Sanjiv Mehta, who is chairman of North Africa and Middle East
operations for parent Unilever, will take his place. The move is
in keeping with a broader trend of senior management at the
company moving to the parent and vice versa.  “Our tradition has always been that different people come
in and build the business,” Harish Manwani, chief operating
officer of Unilever, told reporters in Mumbai.  Hindustan Unilever’s  shares  traded 3.9 percent lower at
661.45 rupees at 2:20 p.m. in Mumbai trading today. It earlier
fell as much as 5.9 percent, headed for the biggest decline
since July 2009.  Net income fell to 10.2 billion rupees ($173 million) in
the three months ended June from 13.3 billion rupees a year
earlier, the Mumbai-based company said in a statement today.
Earnings for the same period last year were higher due to a one-time gain from the sale of some properties.  The company’s domestic business grew at 7 percent, the
slowest pace since Dec. 2009, according to exchange filings.  Parent Unilever, the world’s second-biggest consumer-goods
maker, yesterday reported quarterly sales that missed estimates
and said growth is slowing in  emerging markets  while conditions
remain difficult in the U.S. and Europe.  In India, Unilever sees “an overall slowdown of the
market, as well as the consumer, and in our business to a
certain extent,” Chief Financial Officer Jean-Marc Huet said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  