-- Iran Needs Higher Oil Price for 2013 Budget, Apicorp Says
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-07-26T15:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/iran-needs-higher-oil-price-for-2013-budget-apicorp-says.html
Iran needs the highest oil price
among OPEC members to balance its 2013 budget, according to an
inter-governmental Arab energy lender.  Iran requires an average crude price of $144 a barrel this
year to break even, up from $127 last year, the Arab Petroleum
Investments Corp., known as Apicorp, said today in an e-mailed
report.  Saudi Arabia , the largest producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries, will need a lower $98 to
balance its budget, according to Apicorp. The kingdom needed $94
last year, the lender said.  The weighted-average oil price to break even this year’s
budgets for the 12 members of OPEC is estimated at $105 as the
group’s combined budget is set to grow by 7 percent this year,
the bank said. OPEC needed $99 last year, it said. Benchmark
Brent crude, used to price more than half the world’s oil,
averaged about $108 this year.  “The ultimate point is that no OPEC member can expect to
set expenditures that depend on other members surrendering
market share,” Ali Aissaoui, a senior consultant at the bank
said in the report. “Countries would be more likely to spend
what they could afford.”  With the exception of  Kuwait , all members require higher
break-even prices this year than a year earlier, the Khobar,
Saudi Arabia-based bank said.  Iraq , OPEC’s second-largest producer, needs an oil price of
about $123 this year, $10 more than 2012, according to Apicorp.
 Venezuela ,  Algeria , Libya,  Nigeria  and Ecuador all required
prices above $110 to balance spending plans, it said.  Saudi Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said on May 31 in Vienna
that Brent at about $100 is a fair price. The kingdom’s budget
is based on an average price of $75 a barrel and an export rate
of 7.2 million barrels a day, Fahd bin Jumah, a member of the
Shura Council that advises the king, wrote in Riyadh newspaper
on July 23.  The break-even level represents the price wanted by the
government and is usually different from the actual cost of
production for oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  