-- Irrational to Slam $900 Billion Market Over Detroit: Orr
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-07-26T12:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/irrational-to-slam-900-billion-market-over-detroit-orr.html
Municipal issuers around the U.S.
shouldn’t be penalized because of a plan to force losses on some
Detroit bondholders, said Kevyn Orr, the emergency manager who
sought  bankruptcy protection  for  Michigan ’s biggest city.  “That’s irrational behavior because each underwriting
should stand on its own,” Orr said in an interview yesterday at
Bloomberg headquarters in New York. Lenders “want to send a
shock to the system, to the market.”  Orr offered holders of $369 million of unlimited general-obligation bonds less than 20 cents on the dollar in a fiscal
rescue plan floated before his record bankruptcy filing last
week. His proposal sought to avoid a Chapter 9 reorganization to
deal with about $18 billion in city liabilities. General
obligations, which are supposed to be backed by taxpayers, are
generally considered the safest part of the municipal market.  By offering less than full payment, Orr’s plan “undermines
the sanctity” of such debt, according to Sheila Amoroso and
Rafael Costas, co-directors of municipal investments for a unit
of  San Mateo , California-based  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN)  Tax-backed general-obligation securities make up about $900 billion
of the $3.7 trillion market, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Unsettling Precedent’  If Orr’s proposal takes effect, it “would be an unsettling
precedent” for the municipal market, Amoroso and Costas said in
a July 24 report.  “These are the harsh realities of the marketplace for a
bankrupt enterprise,” Orr said regarding Detroit’s general-obligation bonds. He said that doesn’t mean other issuers are in
the same boat, or present similar risks to investors.  Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder , a Republican, seconded that
opinion.  Investors “should be looking at the financial strength of
that jurisdiction,” he said in an interview today at Bloomberg
headquarters. “Isn’t that the point of having a prospectus, of
having those bonds backed by that community?”  States and cities from  California  to New York use unlimited
general-obligation bonds to build roads, bridges and schools.
The issuers pledge to repay borrowings with tax receipts, and to
use their power to impose levies high enough to cover the debt.  Services Struggle  Detroit, where officials struggle to provide basic services
such as policing and street lighting, joins Jefferson County,
 Alabama , and the California municipalities of Stockton and San
Bernardino in trying to use bankruptcy to reduce debt. The Motor
City, with about 700,000 residents, is the biggest community in
U.S. history to enter court protection.  Creditors balked at Orr’s plan to avoid bankruptcy, and
some sued in state courts trying to prevent a filing.  Detroit ’s
municipal pensions as well as labor unions have also objected.  While Orr said he understands that the treatment of
Detroit’s debt may have a widespread effect on the muni market
in particular, he views his job as restoring the city to fiscal
stability. He compared his task to a horse with blinders on,
trying to stay in one lane to get to the final destination.  “My statute does not say that I have an obligation to take
into account the larger macroeconomic and political aspects of
the general-obligation bond market,” Orr said. “If I did that,
where does it end?”  Detroit unlimited general-obligation bonds maturing April
2020 traded July 23 at an average of about 78.7 cents on the
dollar, the lowest in at least a year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The Ambac Assurance-backed debt had an average
yield of about 9.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  