-- ITC Plans to Invest $4.4 Billion in Five Years
-- B y   P r a d i p t a   M u k h e r j e e   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-07-26T18:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/itc-plans-to-invest-4-4-billion-in-five-years.html
ITC Ltd. (ITC) ,  Asia ’s second-largest
cigarette maker by market value, plans to invest 260 billion
rupees ($4.4 billion) to expand its businesses from cigarettes
to hotels after sales grew at the slowest pace in four years.  The company, based in Kolkata, will triple investment in
its  information technology , hotels, paper and consumer goods
businesses to 60 billion rupees in the year that started April
1, Chairman Yogesh Chander Deveshwar said yesterday. ITC will
use its profit to make the investment, he said.  The company, which is about 30 percent  owned  by  British
American Tobacco Plc (BATS) , is accelerating investment to boost profit
and sales that analysts forecast will expand at the weakest pace
in five years in the year ending March 31. Deveshwar is
targeting 1 trillion rupees of revenue from its consumer goods
businesses by 2030.  “ITC could use the investment to acquire consumer goods
brands,” said Naveen Vyas, a Kolkota-based analyst with
Microsec Capital Ltd. “The hotel business is highly capital
intensive and expansion may require a lot of funds.”  ITC’s  shares , which have risen 28 percent this year, rose
2.6 percent to 368.15 rupees in Mumbai yesterday. The stock has
the highest weighting in the benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  index.  The company’s  sales  may rise 15 percent in the year ending
March 31, according to an average estimate of 14 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the slowest pace since 2009.
Profit may rise 18 percent, the data show.  “We would have been a company with much higher rate of
growth if we could invest as much as we wanted to,” Deveshwar
said at a briefing in Kolkata yesterday. “We would like to
invest so fast that we get to a stage where we will have to
borrow. Unfortunately, we are not able to because of challenges
like getting land,” for our projects, he said without
elaborating.  The company on July 25 said net income rose 18 percent to
18.9 billion rupees in the three months ended June. This
compared with the 19-billion rupee  median  of 30 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pradipta Mukherjee in Kolkata at 
 pmukherjee7@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  