-- Liverpool Give Arsenal Deadline for Suarez Deal: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-07-26T09:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/liverpool-give-arsenal-deadline-for-suarez-deal-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  One Week  Liverpool has given Arsenal one week to meet its 50
million-pound ($77 million) valuation of striker  Luis Suarez ,
the  Daily Express  said.  Liverpool rejected Arsenal’s 40,000,001-pound offer earlier
this week. The Gunners are reluctant to go to 50 million pounds
and hope Suarez puts in a transfer request to force the issue,
the Express said.  Quitting Barca  Cesc Fabregas has told friends in England he wants to leave
Barcelona for  Manchester United , the  Daily Mail  said.  Barcelona has already turned down a 30 million-pound bid
for the midfielder, the Mail said. Fabregas is attracted by the
prospect of playing regularly at United and also wants to re-unite with former Arsenal teammate Robin van Persie, the Mail
said  No Sale  United will not sell  Wayne Rooney , even if it signs
Fabregas or another forward, the  Guardian said .  United insists the England striker is not for sale, even
though he is intent on leaving, the Guardian said.  Waiting Game  Chelsea manager  Jose Mourinho  is willing to wait until
after the Premier League season starts to sign Rooney, the
 Express  said.  Mourinho has not followed up on a 20 million-pound bid for
Rooney that was rejected last week, the Express said. United
won’t let Rooney leave until its game against Chelsea on Aug.
26, a week before the close of the transfer window, the
newspaper said.  Lambert Talks  West Ham manager  Sam Allardyce  will try again to sign
Southampton striker Rickie Lambert after having an offer turned
down in January, the  Daily Star  said.  Lambert was the top scoring Englishman in the Premier
League last season with 15 goals and is under contract until
2016 after agreeing to an extension in March, the Star said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 