-- Jack Welch’s Partner Dammerman Who Helped Revive GE Dies
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r   a n d   D i a n e   B r a d y
-- 2013-07-29T13:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/jack-welch-s-partner-dammerman-who-helped-revive-ge-dies.html
(Corrects spelling of hometown in ninth paragraph.)  Dennis Dammerman, the man Jack Welch
picked to help extricate  General Electric Co. (GE)  from a bond-trading scandal at its former Kidder, Peabody Group Inc. unit,
has died. He was 67.  Dammerman died July 23 at Saratoga Hospital in Saratoga
Springs, New York, after a “long illness,” GE said in a
statement.  “I loved him and respected him and will miss him
terribly,” Welch, GE’s chief executive officer from 1981 to
2001, said in the statement.  Welch chose Dammerman, who was then 38, to become the
youngest chief financial officer in GE’s history. He soon asked
his new CFO to handle the scandal at Kidder, Peabody, where $350
million of false profits were created through what GE called
“phantom trading” in U.S. Treasury securities. Dammerman took
charge of the battered brokerage and helped sell it to
PaineWebber in a deal that ultimately minimized GE’s financial
pain.  To stem losses at Kidder, Dammerman oversaw the elimination
of 10 percent of the workforce, paring costs by $100 million and
cutting its balance sheet by as much as $30 billion.  Four years later, in 1998, Welch chose Dammerman to run GE
Capital, where he more than doubled its assets to $567 billion.
Dammerman retired from Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE in 2005.  “If Dammerman’s not going to be CEO of GE, you want him to
have what’s arguably the next most important job there,” Tim
Stevenson, an analyst with American Express Financial Advisors
told Bloomberg in 1998.  Geithner, Paulson  In 2008, Timothy Geithner, as president of the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, and then-Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, pulled Dammerman out of retirement and onto the board
of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  There, Dammerman discovered
 Robert Benmosche  and hired him as CEO in 2009 to steer the
troubled insurance giant back toward profitability.  Born on Nov. 4, 1945, in Grand Mound,  Iowa , Dammerman
received a bachelor’s degree from the University of Dubuque in
Dubuque, Iowa, and joined GE’s financial management program in
1967.  A decade later, he met Welch, who was impressed with
Dammerman’s understanding of the numbers as well as his grasp of
which parts of the business would drive profit, according to a
1995 article in Fortune. He soon became Welch’s right-hand man.  Dammerman was known for having unwavering loyalty to GE and
is credited with discovering GE’s current CEO, Jeff Immelt, at
the time a Harvard MBA graduate, who walked into his office for
a job interview in 1982. He became a powerful partner to Immelt
as he rose through the ranks to take the top job in 2011.  “I will always be grateful to Dennis for the time he took
to help me when I became CEO,” Immelt wrote in a note to GE
employees and in the statement released by GE. “He was a great
mentor, coach and partner. There were many times when I faced
tough decisions that I knew Dennis would have the right
answer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net ;
Diane Brady in New York at 
 dbrady11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  