-- Japan Needs Marine Force as Security Environment Worse
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-07-26T03:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/japan-needs-marine-force-as-security-environment-worse.html
Japan  should bolster its fledgling
marine force and consider developing a first-strike capability
as it seeks to respond to “high-handed” actions by  China  and
the threat of North Korean missiles, the Defense Ministry said.  A report from the ministry partially echoes proposals put
forward in May by the ruling Liberal Democratic Party, although
it contains fewer specifics and avoids the question of whether
Japan should let its armed forces defend allies. Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe dropped the defense plan approved by the prior
administration and is seeking to create a more robust one by the
end of the year.  “The security environment surrounding our country is
becoming more severe,” the ministry said in the midterm
progress report submitted to Defense Minister Itsunori Onodera
in  Tokyo  today. It cited China’s “insufficiently transparent”
military expansion and the increase in its naval activities, as
well as North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs.  The LDP wants to develop a Marine corps to counter what the
government says are Chinese attempts to change the status quo in
maritime spats by force. It wants consideration for buying
first-strike weapons like cruise missiles, and a
reinterpretation of the occupation-era constitution so Japan can
defend its allies.  The report came as Japan’s Coast Guard said four China
coast guard ships had entered Japan-controlled waters around
islands known as Diaoyu in China and Senkaku in Japan. The
action appeared to mark an escalation, as previous maneuvers
have generally involved three ships.  The government should consider introducing pilotless drones
to improve surveillance, the ministry said in its report.  First Strike  Abe, who took office in December, backed Japan’s first
defense budget increase in 11 years. Scope for change is limited
by a restricted budget in the world’s most indebted country and
by caution on the part of his Buddhist-backed coalition ally New
Komeito.  One of the most contentious proposals is to what extent
Japan could obtain the ability to preemptively strike against an
aggressor.  The capability to attack an enemy base has been mooted for
years in Japan, amid concerns over North Korea launching a
series of ballistic missiles and testing nuclear weapons, most
recently in February. Japan already has a system of ship and
land-based interceptors that can be used to shoot down a
missile.  The ministry’s report refers only to a need to “strengthen
its capacity to deal with” the threat of ballistic missile
attack. Kiyoshi Serizawa of the ministry’s Defense Policy
Division told reporters this would include considering obtaining
the capacity for an overseas strike.  Other views, probably including those of New Komeito, will
be taken into account before the new defense plan is completed,
Serizawa said.  China Unease  Proposals for a stronger amphibious force are being
prompted by unease over China’s activities around disputed East
China Sea islands controlled by Japan. Chinese and Japanese
ships and planes have been tailing one another around the
uninhabited islets, known as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in
China, for months.  In the latest incident, Japanese fighter planes were
dispatched after a Chinese military aircraft was observed for
the first time passing between the southern Japanese islands of
Okinawa and Miyakojima on July 24. The jet was in international
airspace.  Fresh from a decisive victory in an upper house election on
July 21, Abe is currently on a tour of  Malaysia ,  Singapore  and
the  Philippines , during which he said he plans to press the view
that the region should be controlled by law, rather than force.  Japan in 2002 established a small marines-style force of
about 660 troops charged with defending the islands that dot the
ocean between its main islands and  Taiwan , which could become
the nucleus of a marine force.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  