-- Japan’s Rural Financial Firms Should Combine, LDP Lawmaker Says
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2013-07-26T01:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/japan-s-rural-financial-firms-should-combine-ldp-lawmaker-says.html
Japan ’s regional financial
institutions should consolidate across geographical boundaries
to help revive the economy, ruling Liberal Democratic Party
lawmaker Yasuhisa Shiozaki said.  To strengthen rural areas, the nation should give first
priority to financial restructuring, said Shiozaki, 62, who is
vice chairman of the LDP’s Policy Research Council. “We need a
financial sector that can support the vitality of industries and
companies,” he said an interview on July 23.  Japan has more than 500 local financial institutions,
including 64 so-called first-tier regional banks and 41 smaller
second-tier lenders, the Financial Services Agency’s  website 
shows. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, whose government cemented
control of parliament with an upper-house election victory on
July 21, is expected to present a legislative growth strategy
later this year to accompany monetary and fiscal stimulus.  “I don’t understand why regional financial institutions
have to stay within their own prefectures at a time when the
economy expands beyond geographical boundaries,” said Shiozaki.
“They should branch out, or they simply won’t be able to catch
up with the real economy.”  Japan has made little headway on the realignment of local
financial institutions in part because shareholders have been
silent about their business management, he said.  Fukuoka Financial  Shiozaki, a former chief cabinet secretary, said  Fukuoka
Financial Group Inc. (8354)  is an example of a successful merger of
regional banks. He declined to identify potential future tie-ups
between local lenders.  Fukuoka Financial, Japan’s second-biggest regional bank by
assets, was created in April 2007 after Bank of Fukuoka Ltd.
paid 90 billion yen ($900 million) to buy Kumamoto Family Bank
Ltd. The group, based on the southern island of Kyushu, agreed a
month later to purchase Shinwa Bank Ltd. for 76 billion yen.  “Restructuring and consolidation is an option for regional
banks,” Fukuoka Financial President Masaaki Tani said in an
interview on July 18. “But at the end of the day, that’s a
managerial decision for individual banks and it doesn’t make
sense to let the government take the lead.”  Tani is also chairman of Japan’s main regional bank lobby
group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  