-- Jet Air Jumps on Speculation India May Approve Stake Sale
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-07-26T10:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/jet-jumps-on-speculation-india-may-approve-stake-sale-to-etihad.html
Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN)  jumped the
most in five months in Mumbai trading on speculation that a
government panel will approve on July 29 the carrier’s deal to
sell a stake to Etihad Airways PJSC.  Jet  surged  17.4 percent, the biggest gain since Feb. 27, to
396.35 rupees at close of trading in the city. The benchmark S&P
BSE Sensex fell 0.3 percent.  “The expectation is that the government will put some
conditions for the carriers and give a go-ahead,” said  Arun Kejriwal , director at Kejriwal Research & Investment Services
Pvt. in Mumbai. “India must take a decision on this deal as
this has far-reaching implications for the airline industry.”  The Foreign Investment Promotion Board last month deferred
a decision on Jet’s accord to sell its shares to Abu Dhabi-based
Etihad, as authorities sought more details about the control and
ownership of the Indian company after the stake sale. The deal
marks the first investment by a foreign carrier in an Indian
airline after the government eased aviation rules in September.  The FIPB on July 29 will consider the deal between the two
airlines, it said on July 19.  Jet founder and Chairman Naresh Goyal will own 51 percent
of the carrier after the stake sale, according to a company
statement in April. Etihad will hold 24 percent and the
remainder will be held by the public.  Overseas Flights  India ’s aviation ministry is concerned that the stake sale
may result in Jet, the nation’s biggest publicly-traded airline,
losing some overseas flying rights, a government official
familiar with the matter said yesterday. The pact may win
approvals if the companies address the questions over the
transfer of effective control, the official said.  Etihad agreed to reduce the number of directors it can
nominate on Jet’s board to two, Press Trust of India today
reported, citing a finance ministry official it didn’t identify.
Jet had said that the Gulf carrier can nominate three directors
to its board, according to an April 29 stock exchange filing.  Rupert Hugh-Jones, an Etihad spokesman, and Ragini Chopra,
a spokeswoman for Jet, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails
seeking comment.  Jet is seeking funds to add aircraft and pare debt after
six years of losses caused by fuel costs and competition from
discount carriers. The airline, which agreed in April to sell
its stake for 20.6 billion rupees ($350 million), is counting on
Etihad funds to accelerate repayment of working capital debt,
K.G. Vishwanath, vice president of commercial strategy, told
analysts in a conference call in May.  The carriers also need to obtain approvals from India’s
stock market regulator and the home ministry to complete the
share sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  