-- Jews Take the Field; Baseball Stumpers Test Fans: Books
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 2013-07-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/jews-take-the-field-baseball-stumpers-test-fans-books.html
Jews and baseball have always gone
together. Trying to explain this connection has become something
of a national pastime.  The latest effort is “ American Jews and America’s Game:
Voices of a Growing Legacy in Baseball ” by Larry Ruttman
( Nebraska , $34.95), a large (510 pages!) collection of
interviews with leading Jewish players and personalities.  The disgraced outfielder  Ryan Braun , known as the Hebrew
Hammer, merited only a brief mention and a picture even before
he was suspended by the Brewers for his connections to a clinic
accused of supplying banned drugs.  All the usual suspects are here:  Hank Greenberg , Al Rosen,
Art Shamsky,  Sandy Koufax , even  Kevin Youkilis . Also in the
lineup: a commissioner ( Bud Selig , of course), a bigmouth ( Alan Dershowitz , onetime Dodgers fan now firmly in the Red Sox camp)
and a quiet scholar (Sol Gittleman, former Tufts provost).  Gittleman went to college at Drew University, a Methodist
institution in  New Jersey . The baseball coach asked him what he
thought he’d pursue as a major.  “I came to play shortstop, not to major,” he said,
proving that someone now regarded as a wise man could have
started out as a wise guy.  The coach replied: “I’m the German teacher; you major in
German, take care of the infield, and I’ll take care of you.”
They both kept their word.  Cleveland Indians  “ Cleveland Indians Legends ” (Black Squirrel/Kent State,
$29.95), sounds like an unlikely volume, but -- wonder of
wonders, miracle of miracles -- it contains no snickers about
the great failure of Cleveland teams to win any championships
since 1964, when the Browns came out on top of the  National
Football League .  The Indians lack pennant titles and book titles, at least
compared to their colleagues in New York,  Boston ,  Chicago  and
 St. Louis . But Russell Schneider, a Cleveland legend himself for
his years as a sportswriter, has assembled his own hall of fame
in a coffee-table book.  Here’s Tris Speaker, Bob Feller, Lou Boudreau, Bob Lemon,
Early Wynn, Larry Doby, Sam McDowell, Luis Tiant, Jim “Mudcat”
Grant -- and Omar Vizquel and Kenny Lofton. Schneider includes
both Albert Belle and Buddy Bell, somehow resisting the urge to
include Gary Bell, an Indian between 1958 and 1967, with 96 wins
to his credit.  Tribe Member?  No, Gaylord Perry (who won 70 games and a Cy Young Award
while on the Indians) isn’t here. He’s in the Hall of Fame but
was not an MOT (member of the tribe) long enough to be included.  You don’t have to be a Clevelander to feel the pain of the
Indians, who haven’t won a  World Series  since 1948, or to
recognize that the lack of championships doesn’t mean there was
any lack of legends. Hooray for the Indians, and for this book.  Long before “ Moneyball ,”  Bill James  and sabermetrics,
baseball nerds of the late 1950s and ’60s buried themselves in
“So You Think You Know Baseball,” which appeared first as a
weekly column in the Saturday Evening Post and then in a Crest
paperback cherished by teenagers like me with too much time on
our hands and too little ability to play the game at a
competitive level.  In that feature, a baseball savant named Harry Simmons
created bizarre diamond situations designed to challenge our
knowledge of the more obscure rules of the game.  Sports Snobs  Now comes a  book by the very same name  with the very same
theme, this time using actual examples of baseball conundrums.
Dip into this volume by Peter E. Meltzer (Norton, $16.95) for
just a quarter-hour and all your illusions of a second career as
a major-league umpire will wash away like a spring game
postponed by a downpour.  Page after page of stumpers, this book is testimony to why
sports snobs get away with calling baseball the “thinking-man’s
game,” though any thoughtful fan knows some of the people doing
the thinking are women.  Can a manager dispatch a pinch runner when a player
ruptures his Achilles tendon rounding second base on a home-run
trot? (Yes.) Is there an occasion besides a pitcher’s balk or a
stolen base when a runner can advance a base while a ball is in
the pitcher’s hand? (Yes, if the catcher sets up with a foot
outside the catcher’s box.) You could look it up.  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and a
 Lewis Lapham  podcast.  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 