-- Johnson Controls to Seek Acquisitions, New CEO Says
-- B y   M e g a n   D u r i s i n
-- 2013-07-26T16:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/johnson-controls-to-seek-acquisitions-new-ceo-says.html
Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) , the largest
U.S. automotive supplier, will seek acquisitions for its
building efficiency unit, the company’s incoming chief executive
officer said.  “It’s more than possible,” Alex Molinaroli, who takes the
helm of the Milwaukee-based company on Oct. 1, said in an
interview today. “I don’t think I’d be doing my job if it’s
just possible.”  Molinaroli, a 30-year veteran of Johnson Controls, has
served as vice chairman since January. He will succeed Stephen Roell, who will retire after holding the top position since
2007. Roell will remain as chairman until the end of the year.
Molinaroli will assume that post on Jan. 1.  Acquisitions in the company’s automotive sector are
possible and such moves would be “fairly narrow,” Molinaroli
said. The business efficiency line is a more attractive
investment in the near-term and the company’s automotive group
is still “digesting” acquisitions, he said.  “I think that right now would be the wrong time to pile
more on top of that team,” he said of automotive. The company
in 2011 acquired C. Rob. Hammerstein Group, Keiper and Recaro
Automotive in  Europe .  Johnson Controls still plans to find a buyer for its
automotive electronics business by the end of September,
Molinaroli said. Last week, the company agreed to sell its
HomeLink installed garage door business to Zeeland, Michigan-based  Gentex Corp. (GNTX)  for $700 million. Molinaroli said the rest of
the line won’t be be split further.  The incoming CEO said he didn’t expect an immediate
recovery for European auto sales, which have slumped to a two-decade low.  “We’re bumping along the bottom, and we will be bumping
along the bottom for a while,” Molinaroli said.  Johnson Controls fell 0.8 percent to $40.89 at 12:21 p.m.
 New York  time. The shares have gained 34 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 19 percent rise in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Megan Durisin in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mdurisin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  