-- Junk Bond Sales Setting July Record in Europe as Returns Recover
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l   a n d   V e r i t y   R a t c l i f f e
-- 2013-07-26T10:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/junk-bond-sales-setting-july-record-in-europe-as-returns-recover.html
High-yield debt issuance is surging
to the busiest July on record as Europe’s economy shows signs of
recovery a year after European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  promised to do “whatever it takes” to save the euro.  Italian automaker  Fiat SpA (F)  led 6.2 billion euros ($8.2
billion) of speculative-grade sales, up 55 percent from June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. After two months of
losses, the securities are handing investors 1.9 percent in
July, beating the 0.7 percent return from non-financial
investment-grade securities, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show.  Euro-area manufacturing unexpectedly expanded in July for
the first time in two years adding to signs the currency bloc’s
economy is emerging from a record-long recession. The average
yield investors demand to hold  junk bonds  fell 42 basis points
so far this month to 5.68 percent, near the lowest in seven
weeks, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  “Economic data in  Europe  is turning more positive and
company earnings remain benign,” Barclays Plc analysts Soren
Willemann and Zoso Davies in  London  wrote in a note to
investors. “Our base case remains that spreads will grind
tighter over the summer.”  ‘Sweet Spot’  Investors placed $9.8 billion in European high-yield credit
funds this year and $4.5 billion in high-grade funds, Bank of
America Corp. analysts led by Barnaby Martin wrote in a report
today. Non-financial companies sold 45 billion euros of junk-rated securities in euros and pounds, the most for the year-to-date period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Investors are still seeing, in spite of a year that’s
been quite volatile, positive total returns and attractive
yields,” said Chris Higham, a  fund manager  at Aviva Investors
Ltd. in London, which manages more than 60 billion pounds ($92
billion) in credit globally.  The cost of insuring European corporate debt against
default is heading for its first monthly decline since April,
signaling improvement in perceptions of  credit quality .  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of default swaps on 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings, which was down
6.75 basis points at 408.6 at 11:10 a.m. in London, dropped 68
basis points so far in July. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of
125 companies with investment-grade ratings fell 1.75 to 101.5
today, and is down 17 basis points on the month.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net ;
Verity Ratcliffe in London at 
 vratcliffe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  