-- Justice Department Targets Texas With ‘Band-Aid’ on Voting Laws
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-07-26T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/justice-department-targets-texas-with-band-aid-on-voting-laws.html
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder,
stung by the  Supreme Court ’s decision gutting federal power to
pre-emptively strike at state voting laws, opened a new front in
the Obama administration’s fight against election laws it views
as discriminatory.  The first target in what Holder says may become a multi-state effort is  Texas . In the face of strong objections from the
state’s top officials, the Justice Department will ask a federal
court to require Texas to obtain approval from the government or
a federal court before making voting-law changes.  “It’s very significant, but not at all surprising,”  Dan
Tokaji , a law professor who focuses on election law and  voting
rights  at  Ohio State University ’s Moritz College Law. “It’s
best viewed as a Band-Aid rather than an inoculation, which is
what the old regime was.”  Holder, the country’s first black attorney general who
aides say was deeply concerned about the court’s ruling, has
been telegraphing that the administration will use all remaining
tools to push back on state laws it finds discriminatory.  His action yesterday puts the Justice Department behind a
lawsuit filed by civil rights groups in federal court in Texas
and comes as several states are responding to the high courts
ruling with proposals that would add voting restrictions.  Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott  said in a conference
call with reporters that the state would fight Holder’s effort.
State officials announced shortly after the Supreme Court ruling
that a state law imposing new identification requirements for
voters would take effect. The North Carolina legislature is also
moving forward with new voter identification laws.  Holder’s Options  The Supreme Court’s ruling on June 25 to strike down a core
provision of the Voting Rights Act left Holder and his top
deputies to look at the other provisions of the law for other
approaches.  The day of the decision, Holder  told reporters  the
department would “not hesitate to take swift enforcement action
-- using every legal tool that remains available to us --
against any jurisdiction that seeks to take advantage of the
Supreme Court’s ruling by hindering eligible citizens’ full and
free exercise of the franchise.”  Since then, he has attacked the ruling in speeches,
including  remarks  yesterday at the National Urban League’s
national convention in which he called it a “deeply
disappointing -- and flawed -- decision.” He has used public
forums and behind the scenes lobbying to press Congress to enact
an updated preclearance formula, saying the issue “has never
been a partisan” one.  Voting Focus  Holder redeployed the department’s civil rights division,
moving attorneys to focus on voting laws not affected by the
court ruling. That includes an added emphasis on actions like
the one filed in Texas, which utilizes the little-used Section 3
of the Voting Rights Act to “bail-in” or require jurisdictions
to seek preclearance for election law changes, as well as the
use of Section 2, which allows the department to sue
jurisdictions that adopt voting laws or procedures that
“purposefully discriminate.”  Top Texas officials, all Republicans, pushed back. Governor
 Rick Perry  said Holder was attempting an “end-run around the
Supreme Court that undermines the will of the people of Texas.”  Abbott said “there is no valid legal reason to bail-in the
state of Texas into ongoing federal oversight.” He said he
would take the case to the Supreme Court should the state lose.  ‘Political Agenda’  Senator  John Cornyn , the state’s former attorney general,
said the Obama administration was “bullying” Texas for
political gain.  “This decision has nothing to do with protecting voting
rights and everything to do with advancing a partisan political
agenda,” Cornyn said.  Texas is undergoing a demographic shift, with voting-age
Hispanics on pace to make up more of the electorate than white
voters in the years ahead. Advocacy groups aligned with the
 Democratic Party  are seeking to take political advantage.  One such group, Battleground Texas, created by veterans of
President  Barack Obama ’s campaigns, is using data and voter
contacts to try to shift the electoral balance.  At issue in Texas are the state’s election maps, which
determine the size and composition of state and federal voting
districts based on the census. They were revised after the
Justice Department successfully blocked the state’s 2011
redistricting proposal. Federal judges struck down that plan,
finding that it intentionally discriminated against minorities.  Election Maps  Perry signed the revised maps into law shortly after the
Supreme Court decision last month.  A federal three-judge panel in  San Antonio , Texas will now
rule on whether the revised district maps adequately corrected
the discrimination found in the initial proposals. The panel
also will have to rule, based on a July filing from the civil
rights groups backed by the  Justice Department , whether the
state should be required to seek preclearance before imposing
any changes to voting laws.  Federal lawmakers are working to replace the portion of the
Voting Rights Act struck down by the court.  Under the Section 5 preclearance requirement, all or parts
of 15 states had to get federal approval before changing
election districts, amending voting rules or even moving a
polling place. The Justice Department used that provision, which
covered virtually the entire South, to object to more than 2,400
state and local voting changes from 1982 to 2006.  Legal Formula  The Supreme Court majority rejected the decades-old formula
for determining which states were covered by the preclearance
requirement. The formula tied coverage to voter registration
rates, turnout and ballot-box rules in the 1960s and early
1970s.  Lawmakers in the House and Senate, including Republican
Representative James Sensenbrenner of  Wisconsin , are attempting
to draft a new formula, something Holder and the Justice
Department continue to support.  “Let me be very clear: these tools are no substitute for
legislation that will fill the void left by the Supreme Court’s
decision,” Holder said yesterday.  Richard L. Hasen, a law and political science professor at
the University of California  Irvine  said in an e-mail that if
judges agreed that the state required preclearance “it will
restore a piece, but not a majority, of what Section 5 did
before the Supreme Court gutted it.”  Hasen, on his  election law blog , called it a “clunky way
to cover only a subset of jurisdictions found to be
intentionally discriminating -- a tough legal standard to
prove.”  “But a bail-in is a lot better nothing,” Hasen wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  