-- SoftBank’s Son Demands Government Reconsider Spectrum Opinion
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-07-26T11:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/kddi-recommended-to-receive-japan-wi-fi-spectrum-license.html
SoftBank Corp. (9984)  President Masayoshi Son asked a Japanese council to reconsider a recommendation that
new wireless spectrum be awarded to competitor  KDDI Corp. (9433)  as
carriers seek to boost download speeds for mobile devices.  The billionaire Son, whose company also applied for the
spectrum, said the decision was unfair and he requested records
relating to the advisory opinion. “SoftBank will be at a huge
disadvantage,” he said in an interview.  KDDI,  Japan ’s second-largest mobile carrier, would get the
right to use the new 2,500-MHz spectrum if the Ministry of
Internal Affairs and Communications adopts the recommendation,
which was announced in a statement today.  “The process is ridiculous and very unfair,” Son said in
the interview after the announcement. “We need to fight for our
users. I’m fully prepared to die if necessary to say this.”  SoftBank, the nation’s third-largest wireless carrier,
bought  Sprint Corp. (S)  as it tries to counter a declining
population at home.  Ayumi Tsujishita, a spokeswoman for KDDI, declined to
comment.  The bandwidth hadn’t previously been released and is part
of the government’s plan to make new spectrum available as
consumers increasingly use mobile devices to surf the Internet
and download videos and music. Global smartphone shipments
jumped 47 percent to 230 million in the second quarter from a
year ago,  Strategy Analytics  said.  “The value of spectrum will rise as data traffic
increases,” Hideki Yasuda, an analyst at Ace Securities Co. in
 Tokyo , said yesterday. “Companies cannot buy spectrum whenever
they want.”  KDDI’s proposal for the spectrum would improve the
efficiency of the airwaves, according to a statement from the
Radio Regulatory Council.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  