-- NAMA Seeks to Revive U2 Tower Project Shelved in 2008
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-07-26T12:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/nama-seeks-to-revive-u2-tower-project-that-was-shelved-in-2008.html
Ireland’s National Asset Management
Agency is seeking to resurrect a plan to build a residential
property in Dublin known as the U2 Tower five years after the
project was shelved.  NAMA and  Kennedy-Wilson Holdings Inc. (KW)  have drafted
proposals for the development of about 5 acres (2 hectares) of
land in the city’s docklands district, including the U2 Tower
site, according to a filing by Kennedy-Wilson to the city’s
municipal authority. The building would have 18 stories, half as
many as the original project endorsed by the Irish  rock band .  Ireland’s real estate market is emerging from the biggest
slump in western Europe, led by Dublin. Annual home prices
across the country climbed in June for the first time in more
than five years, the  Central Statistics Office  said this week.
In Dublin, apartment values climbed almost 10 percent from a
year earlier.  Kennedy-Wilson, the largest overseas buyer of Irish real
estate since the market crashed in 2008, and NAMA “have
collaborated their effort and inputs in devising an acceptable
and viable scheme for their combined land holdings,” according
to the filing. Kennedy-Wilson controls land between  State Street
Corp. (STT) ’s Irish headquarters and the U2 Tower site.  David Clerkin, a spokesman for NAMA, declined to comment.
Peter Collins, the Dublin-based managing director for Kennedy-Wilson’s European business, didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment.  Apartments Plan  NAMA and  Beverly Hills , California-based Kennedy-Wilson may
also develop apartments and office buildings with as many as
eight stories on their land, the filing shows. The document was
submitted to Dublin City Council with the “knowledge and
support” of the Irish bad bank, Kennedy-Wilson said in the
filing that was prepared by planners Stephen Little & Associates
on its behalf.  The original U2 Tower was to be built by developers  Paddy
McKillen  and Ballymore Properties and would have been partly
funded by members of the band. The Foster & Partners-designed
skyscraper would have included a studio for U2 at the top of the
tower.  NAMA took control of the site in 2011 from the state-owned
Dublin Docklands Development Authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  