-- Natural Gas Drops in Survey on Outlook for Milder Weather
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-07-26T19:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/natural-gas-drops-in-survey-on-outlook-for-milder-u-s-weather.html
Natural gas futures may fall next
week as milder weather limits demand for the power-plant fuel, a
Bloomberg survey showed.  Six of 12 analysts, or 50 percent, predicted that futures
will drop on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through Aug. 2.
Four, or 33 percent, said gas will increase and two predicted
prices will stay the same. Last week, 55 percent of participants
said gas would advance.  Temperatures will be seasonal or below normal across the
northern half of the U.S. and the Southeast from July 30 through
Aug. 8, with a chance for higher readings in the Northeast,
according to Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .
U.S. gas  inventory gains  were below the five-year average in the
past two government supply reports as an East Coast heat wave
drove power demand to an all-time high in New York.  “We are looking at forecasts for milder temperatures and
the preference for natural gas that we saw these last two weeks
have really been more operational than economical,” said Aaron Calder, senior market analyst at Gelber & Associates in Houston.
“We are going to see power demand decrease for sure and also
the hottest part of the summer may well be in the rearview
mirror.”  Natural gas futures dropped 23.4 cents, or 6.2 percent,
this week to $3.555 per million British thermal units on the
Nymex, the lowest settlement price since March 6 and the biggest
weekly drop since the seven days ended Dec. 14. The futures are
up 6.1 percent this year.  Prices may test a psychological and technical support level
of $3.50 next week if mild weather holds, and then head toward
the next technical support of $3.43, Calder said.  New York  The high temperature in  New York City  on July 31 will be 82
degrees Fahrenheit, (28 Celsius) 2 below normal, according to
AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . Minneapolis’s
high on Aug. 1 may be 8 lower than the average at 74 degrees.  Power plants  will account for 32 percent of U.S. gas
consumption this year and are the biggest users of the fuel,
according to the Energy Information Administration, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm.  Gas inventories  increased 41 billion cubic feet to 2.786
trillion in the week ended July 19, below the five-year average
gain for the period of 53 billion, according to an EIA report
yesterday. A  deficit  to the five-year average widened for a
second week, increasing to 1.6 percent from 1.2 percent the
previous week. Supplies were 12.5 percent below  levels a year
earlier  versus 13.1 percent a week earlier.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex gas futures will probably
rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This week’s
results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  4      6      2  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  