-- Newark’s Booker Fundraising for Four Senate Races at Once
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-07-26T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/newark-s-booker-fundraising-for-four-senate-races-at-once.html
Newark Mayor  Cory Booker , the
frontrunner in New Jersey’s special election to replace the late
U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg , has proven adept at raising cash.
Enough, in some cases, for four elections.  Booker, a 44-year-old Democrat, has accepted contributions
of as much as $10,400 ahead of the Aug. 13 primary, four times
the $2,600 federal limit per election. Such fundraising is
permissible by law as long as the donor stipulates that the
money is for multiple races.  The mayor’s campaign said the money will be used for this
year’s primary and general contests, as well as next year’s
election cycle. Booker raised $4.6 million between April and
June, with donations of at least $10,000 from more than 150
people, including  Facebook Inc. (FB)  co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  and
 Christy R. Walton , the world’s richest woman.  “It demonstrates their level of confidence in him,” said
Ben Dworkin, director of the Rebovich Institute of New Jersey
Politics at  Rider University . “People who can afford to give
this type of money to a political candidate are very busy
people, and this way you can ask them to do it once and they’re
covered for two years.”  Eyes on Prize  Booker, a rising Democratic star, had already filed papers
this year with the  Federal Election Commission  declaring himself
a candidate to seek Lautenberg’s seat in 2014. Those plans were
fast-tracked by the death of Lautenberg, a Democrat elected to
five terms, on June 3 at age 89.  Governor Chris Christie, a 50-year-old Republican, set an
August primary and Oct. 16 general election for the seat while
appointing a temporary replacement. Whoever wins this year must
run again next year when Lautenberg’s term expires.  The back-to-back elections -- four in less than two years -
- are a rarity in the Senate, where terms last six years and
vacancies are often filled by gubernatorial apppointments that
run the length of a departed member’s remaining time in office,
said  Paul Ryan , an attorney specializing in campaign-finance law
and senior counsel for the Washington-based  Campaign Legal
Center .  “It’s a quirk in the system -- anomaly might be too strong
a word -- but these aren’t normal circumstances,” Ryan said.
“But it doesn’t raise any red flags.”  Wall Street  Booker, a Rhodes Scholar and Yale University-educated
lawyer who moved to Newark in 1996, won the mayor’s seat in 2006
and again in 2010. His efforts to add development and reduce
crime in New Jersey’s largest city have attracted investments
from Zuckerberg, who pledged $100 million to the city’s schools,
as well as hedge-fund managers including  Bill Ackman  and  Leon Cooperman .  The mayor gained national attention last year for saving a
neighbor from a fire and for living on food stamps for a week to
show the difficulty of relying on the government aid. A frequent
Twitter user, Booker has 1.4 million followers on it. He spoke
at the 2012 Democratic National Convention and helped lead its
platform committee.  His nearest challenger in the Democratic primary, U.S.
Representative  Frank Pallone , began July with $3.5 million,
mostly from the transfer of surplus campaign funds. U.S.
Representative Rush Holt had $1.1 million and state Assembly
Speaker Sheila Oliver didn’t disclose fundraising because she
filed organizing documents after the quarter ended, according to
reports from the  Federal Election Commission .  Democratic Edge  Booker got 52 percent support in a Quinnipiac University
poll on July 9. Pallone had 10 percent; Holt, 8 percent; and
Oliver, 3 percent, as 26 percent were undecided.  The Democratic victor will face the winner of a Republican
race between former Bogota Mayor Steven Lonegan and Piscataway
physician Alieta Eck. In the Quinnipiac poll, Lonegan topped
Eck, 62 percent to 5 percent, while Booker beat Lonegan, 53
percent to 30 percent. New Jersey voters haven’t elected a
Republican to the Senate since 1972.  Booker’s campaign is giving each donor a letter specifiying
that any money raised above $2,600 will be allotted to future
races through the 2014 general election. It also asked donors to
sign a separate form acknowledging the allotment, according to a
copy of the document provided to  Bloomberg News .  Silvia Alvarez, a Booker spokeswoman, said the campaign
will make sure the money is spent in accordance with federal
guidelines. She declined to say how much will be available for
the special election and how much will be earmarked for 2014.  ‘Deeply Grateful’  “We are deeply grateful for the support of our
contributors, and their faith that Mayor Booker will be the kind
of leader who can go to Washington to bring people together,”
Alvarez said in an e-mail. “This campaign takes that support
and compliance with campaign-finance laws seriously. We will
continue to follow the rules.”  Booker got $10,000 or more from Christopher Drake Heinz, an
heir to the H.J. Heinz ketchup fortune; Maria Cuomo Cole,
daughter of former  New York  Governor  Mario Cuomo ; New York Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg ; cosmetics company founder Bobbi Brown;
director  J.J. Abrams ; and Ivanka Trump, daughter of  Donald Trump ; among others, according to FEC  documents  filed in the
second quarter.  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  co-founder Ken Langone gave
$5,200 while actor  Ben Affleck  and singer Paul Anka both gave
$5,000. Bloomberg is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  Pouring In  Booker has raised another $2 million this month, according
to a campaign official who asked not to be identified because
they weren’t authorized to disclose financing. That would bring
Booker’s total fundraising so far to $8.5 million.  “It certainly doesn’t surprise me -- he has star power and
star power attracts campaign contributions,” said state Senator
Raymond Lesniak, a Democrat from Elizabeth. “Cory Booker
eclipses even  Chris Christie , who is a governor and a celebrity
in his own right. I have not seen anything like this before in
terms of fundraising ability -- no one comes close in New
Jersey.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  