-- Nippon Yusen, Other Car Transporters Face Antitrust Suit
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-07-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/nippon-yusen-other-car-transporters-face-antitrust-suit.html
Nippon Yusen K.K. (9101) ,  Japan ’s biggest
shipping line, and eight other maritime-car transporters were
accused in a lawsuit by a Florida-based shipping company of
fixing prices on carrier services.  Manaco International Forwarder Inc.  contends officials of
Nippon Yusen and other car transporters, such as  Kawasaki Kisen
Kaisha Ltd. (9107)  and  Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. (9104) , violated U.S.
antitrust laws by conspiring to “fix, stabilize or maintain
prices of” their services, according to a lawsuit filed in
federal court in  Manhattan .  The conspiracy caused Ft. Lauderdale, Florida-based Manaco
and other shipping clients to “pay artificially inflated
prices” to have cars delivered, the company said in the
complaint. Manaco is seeking to have the case certified as a
class action, or group, lawsuit.  The suit follows raids by Japanese antitrust regulators
last year at the offices of Nippon Yusen and four other shipping
lines that control about 70 percent of the global market for
carrying cars. The companies said the search was in connection
with a probe of price-fixing claims.  Jiro Tanida, a Nippon Yusen spokesman, Jitsuo Narita, a
spokesman for Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd., and Yasuyuki Fukuma, a
Mitsui O.S.K. spokesman, couldn’t be immediately reached for
comment on the suit yesterday in Japan.  ‘Highly Concentrated’  Manaco contends the car-shipping companies operate in a
“highly concentrated industry,” where companies all operate
the same kind of “Roll-on/Roll-off” ships. The defendants sued
in the case comprise the five largest companies based on
capacity, according to court filings.  Even though the industry has faced a glut of transport
capacity over the years, prices have remained stable or
increased, Manaco said in its complaint. That fact “is
indicative of price collusion within the market,” the company
said.  The case is Manaco International Forwarders Inc. v. Nippon
Yusen Kabushiki Kaisha, NYK Line (North America) Inc., 13-civ-5243, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 