-- Nomura Sees Momentum in Stock Underwriting, Retail Demand
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-07-26T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/nomura-s-quarterly-profit-surges-as-abe-stock-rally-spurs-fees.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  Japan ’s
biggest securities firm, expects the recovery at its retail
brokerage and equity underwriting businesses will stretch into
this quarter as corporate and investor sentiment improves.  “We have mid-sized deals in our pipeline,” Chief
Financial Officer Shigesuke Kashiwagi said yesterday in  Tokyo 
after the bank posted a fourth straight quarter of year-on-year
 profit growth . “I think we’ll be able to maintain momentum.”  Japan’s stocks are the best performers among major
developed markets this year, boosting Nomura’s brokerage
commissions and fees from managing share sales for companies
including  Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd. (2587)  Net revenue from retail
operations doubled last quarter to the highest in 11 years as
Japanese anticipating an end to deflation shifted savings into
riskier investments.  “It makes sense for Japanese corporates to raise funds and
spend them on equipment today rather than tomorrow if the
economy is moving toward inflation,” said Shiro Yoshioka, an
analyst at  Japaninvest Group Plc (3827)  who rates Nomura a buy. “And
it’s reasonable for retail investors to opt for equities rather
than keep their money in deposits with fixed  interest rates .”  Net income surged to 65.9 billion yen ($668 million) for
the three months ended June 30 from 1.9 billion yen a year
earlier, in line with  analysts’  estimates, Nomura’s earnings
report showed yesterday.  Brokerage commissions doubled to 157.6 billion yen. Net
revenue from retail operations rose to 166.3 billion yen, the
highest since Tokyo-based Nomura began keeping quarterly  records 
in the year ended March 2002.  Abe Rally  The benchmark  Topix Index (TPX)  of shares has gained 36 percent
this year on the back of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s drive to
end deflation with fiscal and monetary stimulus combined with
deregulation. Securities stocks led the rally, with Nomura
climbing 56 percent, as demand for brokerage services increased.  Kashiwagi, 53, said individual investors have been buying
stocks, mutual funds, emerging-market bonds and high-yield notes
since June because securities became cheap after a selloff the
previous month. “The momentum is continuing in July,” he said.  Japanese, who hoarded cash during 15 years of deflation,
are beginning to shift to riskier assets. Households boosted
their holdings of stocks and other equities by 17 percent in the
quarter ended March from a year earlier to 124 trillion yen, the
highest since December 2007,  Bank of Japan  data show.  Consumer
prices (JNCPIXFF)  rose 0.4 percent in June from a year earlier, the most
since 2008, government figures showed yesterday.  Fortunes Turn  Nomura’s fortunes have turned around in the past 12 months.
A year ago, the company reported an 89 percent plunge in
quarterly net income and then-Chief Executive Officer Kenichi Watanabe and his top lieutenant resigned after staff leaked
information used for  insider trading . The scandal cost the bank
some debt and equity underwriting business.  Watanabe’s replacement, 54-year-old Koji Nagai, is cutting
$1 billion of costs to sustain the earnings rebound and become
profitable abroad. Pretax loss from overseas operations widened
13 percent last quarter from a year earlier to 13.7 billion yen
because of the weaker yen and costs related to staff
retirements, the bank said.  Investment banking fees more than doubled to 25.4 billion
yen as Japanese companies sold shares and bonds to raise funds.
The nation’s large manufacturers turned optimistic in June for
the first time since 2011, the Bank of Japan’s  Tankan (JNTSMFG)  survey
showed this month.  Nomura was the No. 1 underwriter of Japanese equity sales
last quarter, managing offerings valued at 263.4 billion yen,
more than eight times higher than a year earlier, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. While the company isn’t working on deals as
large as Suntory’s almost $4 billion initial public offering,
according to Kashiwagi, it has managed six sales in July,
including by  Dentsu Inc. (4324)  and  Sumitomo Forestry Co. (1911)   “A strong equity capital market will be the earnings
driver for the second quarter,” said Katsunori Tanaka, a Tokyo-based analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “We’ve already seen
several deals in Japan since the start of July, and corporate
sentiment and activities have been rising.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  