-- Obama Contraceptive Mandate Upheld by U.S. Appeals Court
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/obama-contraceptive-mandate-upheld-by-u-s-appeals-court.html
The Obama administration won an
appeals court victory in a challenge to its 2010 health-care law
by a for-profit company seeking a religious exemption to a
mandate that employers provide insurance coverage for
contraceptives.  In a 2-1 decision, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Philadelphia yesterday rejected a challenge to the Affordable
Care Act requirement brought by  Conestoga Wood Specialties
Corp. , a cabinet maker owned by Mennonite Christians who argued
the mandate violates their religious beliefs.  “We simply conclude that the law has long recognized the
distinction between the owners of a corporation and the
corporation itself,” U.S. Circuit Judge Robert Cowen wrote in
the majority decision. “A holding to the contrary -- that a
for-profit corporation can engage in religious exercise -- would
eviscerate the fundamental principle that a corporation is a
legally distinct entity from its owners.”  The ruling sets up a split between federal appeals courts
that makes it more likely the U.S. Supreme Court will eventually
consider the dispute. On June 27, a federal appeals court in
Denver ruled that Hobby Lobby Stores Inc. was likely to win on
the merits of its argument that the mandate violates the rights
of the company and its owners under the Religious Freedom
Restoration Act and the First Amendment of the Constitution.  Hobby Lobby  A federal judge on July 19 issued a ruling blocking
enforcement of the mandate against Hobby Lobby and put the case
on hold until October.  Conestoga and other companies challenged the government
over the provision of the 2010 U.S. health law requiring
employers and insurers to provide preventive  health services 
without charge to their workers, a category of service the
administration said includes  birth control .  Thirty-six lawsuits have been filed by for-profit companies
challenging the Affordable Care Act’s contraceptive coverage
mandate, according to the National Women’s Law Center. In at
least 24 cases the plaintiffs have won rulings allowing them not
to provide the coverage while the litigation is pending. In
seven cases, the court has ruled against the companies’ request,
according to the group.  “Most courts agree that all Americans have religious
freedom even when trying to earn a living and we think this
decision will eventually be reviewed and that religious freedom
will be vindicated,” Matt Bowman, a lawyer for Conestoga at the
Washington-based Alliance for Defending Freedom, said in an
interview.  ‘Grievous Harm’  In a 66-page dissent, Circuit Judge Kent Jordan said the
majority’s ruling “guarantees grievous harm” as Conestoga’s
owners are forced to pay for the “offending contraceptives,
including abortifacients,” in violation of their religious
convictions or face “ruinous fines.”  “It should not be hard for us to join the many courts
across the country that have looked at the mandate and its
implementation and concluded that the government should be
enjoined from telling sincere believers in the sanctity of life
to put their consciences aside and support other people’s
reproductive choices,” Jordan said.  The case is Conestoga Wood Specialties Corp. v. Secretary
of the  Department of Health  and Human Services, 13-1144, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 