-- Obama Ignores U.S. Law to Ignore Egypt’s Coup
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-07-26T21:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/obama-ignores-u-s-law-to-ignore-egypt-s-coup.html
Heard the one about the law that
says the U.S. must cut aid to a country that has had a coup?
Apparently the  Barack Obama  administration has: Its lawyers have
reportedly told the president he can ignore the law simply by
not asking whether  Egypt has had a coup .  The joke would be funny if it weren’t so outrageous -- and
such an affront to the rule of law in  Washington , to say nothing
of Cairo.  Many laws are complicated, but  Section 508  of the Foreign
Assistance Act isn’t. It reads: “None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available pursuant to this Act shall be
obligated or expended to finance directly any assistance to any
country whose duly elected head of government is deposed by
military coup or decree.”  In other words, money spent to aid a foreign country such
as  Egypt  can’t be spent if there has been a coup. There is no
loophole in this language.  The unnamed “senior official” who revealed the Obama
team’s legal opinion didn’t actually reveal the legal reasoning
behind its decision to keep the aid flowing, except to say that
“the law does not require us to make a formal determination as
to whether a coup took place.” What in the world does this
cryptic description of a secret legal opinion mean?  Ostrich Theory  The most likely possibility is that State Department
lawyers are being hyperliteralists. The law says no aid if there
has been a coup, but it never explicitly orders the
administration to inquire whether a coup has occurred. It also
contains no trigger stating that when the government changes
hands in a recipient country, the president needs to determine
if it has been a coup. The lawyers may have concluded that the
president can bury his head in the sand, ignore the realities of
what has happened in Egypt, and keep signing checks.  This ostrich theory of the law makes no sense, however. If
it were correct, the law would amount to nothing more than
advice to the president to suspend aid after a coup if he felt
like it. Otherwise, he could always ignore the coup. Yet the law
as written explicitly forbids assistance when a coup has
occurred. That means that if one has, and the president keeps
sending funds, he’s violating the law.  There might be no one who has standing to challenge this
decision in court -- but the president is obligated under the
Constitution to “take care that the laws be faithfully
executed.”  Wanting to give the White House every benefit of the doubt,
I batted around some ideas with a few legal colleagues, and we
came up with a few other possible legal arguments. None were
convincing, either.  Perhaps the president might claim an inherent commander-in-chief power or foreign-relations power to keep the money coming
because of national security. But we aren’t at war, and Congress
certainly has the power of the purse. What’s more, Congress has
spoken clearly in the law, which means that the president’s
power is at its nadir, according to the test devised by Justice
 Robert Jackson  in the Youngstown steel seizure case.  Another option would be to claim that U.S. aid to Egypt
somehow doesn’t “directly” assist Egypt, but considering that
Congress allocates specific funds for the country, and has done
so since the 1978 Camp David agreement, it’s difficult to see
how this argument could be made.  It’s hard to escape the conclusion that the Obama
administration is adopting some highly doubtful legal conclusion
just because it thinks it can get away with it. There is no
reason whatsoever for secrecy here -- except to shield itself
from criticism of the content of the opinion. At least when the
administration claimed its support for the Libya bombing
campaign didn’t count as “hostilities” under the War Powers
Act, it told the public what its strained interpretation of the
law was, so that it could be criticized.  Secret interpretations of the law are almost as bad as
secret laws. Both are incompatible with the rule of law. The
Foreign Assistance Act is supposed to give other countries
incentive to follow the law. How seriously is military chief
General Abdelfatah Al-Seesi likely take our encouragement to
follow Egyptian law when he observes how freely the White House
ignores our own?  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Cool War: The Future of Global Competition” and
“The Fall and Rise of the Islamic State,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. Follow him on Twitter at  @NoahRFeldman .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  nfeldman@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 