-- Ex-Billionaire Batista’s 30-Cent Redemption Ignites OGX
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-07-26T16:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/ogx-s-30-cent-redemption-talk-ignites-record-jump-brazil-credit.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes
SA’s bonds are surging like never before, ignited by speculation
 Eike Batista ’s flagship oil producer will offer to buy back the
most-distressed debt in  emerging markets .  The company’s $2.56 billion of debt due in 2018 has soared
7 cents this week to 22 cents on the dollar, poised for the
biggest gain since the securities were issued in May 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The notes were the
world’s worst-performing corporate bonds this year after
tumbling from 98.1 cents in January.  While OGX has denied plans to restructure its debt,
newspaper Folha de S.Paulo said July 24 that Batista is seeking
partners to redeem the notes for as much as 30 cents, without
saying how it got the information. Batista’s fortune has fallen
99 percent from its peak, as the failure of OGX to deliver the
oil production he promised sparked concern the company will
default and pushed its bonds to 15 cents last week. Abu Dhabi’s
sovereign wealth fund, mentioned as one of the possible partners
by Folha, is said to be interested Batista’s assets.  “Independent of the way this is negotiated or the details
of the negotiation, the fact that somebody is working on a way
out is interesting for people to get involved with,” Klaus Spielkamp, a fixed-income trader at Bulltick Capital Markets,
said in a telephone interview from Miami. “There’s a true
belief that there’s something going on.”  ‘Makes Sense’  Press officials for Rio de Janeiro-based OGX who asked not
to be identified in accordance with policy declined to comment
on the performance of OGX’s bonds.  OGX’s bonds due in 2018 yield 56.22 percentage points more
than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries, more than any other
performing emerging-market bond with at least $500 million
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 56-year-old Batista, who ranked as the world’s eighth-richest person last year with a fortune of $34.5 billion in
March 2012, has seen his net worth decline to about $200
million, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Batista is looking for partners to help him propose an
offer of between 20 cents on the dollar and 30 cents on the
dollar, according to  Folha . The debt would then be swapped into
equity, the newspaper said.  Since 1983, senior unsecured creditors in Latin American
corporate defaults have recovered an average of 35.2 cents on
the dollar, according to data compiled by Moody’s Investors
Service.  Abu Dhabi  OGX’s $1.06 billion of notes due in 2022 now trade at 21
cents after falling to a record low 13.5 cents on July 18,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “For investors that bought at the low teens, 30 cents is a
home-run return,” Revisson Bonfim, an analyst at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank, said in a telephone interview from New York.
“It makes sense.”  Mubadala Development Co., the Abu Dhabi wealth fund that
restructured a $2 billion investment in Batista’s EBX Group Co.,
said it may be interested in his holdings.  Many of the company’s assets have significant value to a
number of parties including Mubadala, according to an e-mailed
response to questions yesterday from a fund spokesman, who asked
not to be identified citing policy.  Mubadala agreed to take a 5.63 percent stake in EBX in
March 2012, when OGX’s  shares  were trading at 15.83 reais. They
have since fallen 96 percent to 0.56 real.  Possible Liquidation  EBX agreed to redeem a “significant portion” of
Mubadala’s initial investment this month and give “enhanced
protection” to remaining funds. Batista’s publicly traded
companies have lost about $10 billion in  market value  this year
as OGX missed oil output targets and abandoned fields that
Batista has previously declared “bonanza” assets.  OGX, which said July 1 it may shut down its only oil-producing field next year, may end the year with about $13
million in cash, according to Credit Suisse Group AG estimates.  Henri Alexaline, who helps manage $1 billion of fixed-income assets at FM Capital Partners Ltd., said the rebound in
OGX bonds will be short-lived as a restructuring will be
complicated by the complex structure of EBX.  “It’s more like a dead-cat bounce than the signs of a
radical review of recovery prospects,” Alexaline said in an e-mail from  London . “Liquidation might end up being the only
feasible option.”  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to own  Brazil  government
dollar bonds instead of Treasuries widened five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 228 basis points at 12:18 p.m. in New
York, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  Brazil’s five-year credit default swaps, contracts
protecting holders of the nation’s debt against non-payment,
increased eight basis points to 186 basis points.  The real fell 0.4 percent to 2.2518 per dollar.  FTI Consulting Inc. and U.S. law firms Cleary Gottlieb
Steen & Hamilton LLP and Bingham McCutchen LLP said they have
held meetings with OGX bondholders to discuss Brazilian
insolvency law, indicating creditors are organizing before a
potential restructuring, according to Espirito Santo’s Bonfim.  “It was surprising that they waited so long,” Bonfim
said. “There’s a good possibility that this bondholder group
has gone and said, ‘Listen, we would be interested in a
restructuring with a recovery value of such.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  