-- Holder Tells Russia Snowden Won’t Face Death Penalty
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-07-26T16:46:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/holder-tells-russia-snowden-won-t-face-death-penalty.html
Attorney General Eric Holder has
told the Russian government that fugitive former security
contractor Edward Snowden won’t be tortured or face the death
penalty if he is returned to the U.S.  Holder offered the assurances to Russian authorities in a
letter dated July 23 and released today by the  Justice
Department  in a bid to persuade the country to turn down
Snowden’s asylum request.  Holder said that Snowden isn’t charged with a capital crime
and pledged not to seek a death sentence against him even if he
is charged with additional violations that could carry the death
penalty. He said that Snowden wouldn’t be compelled to answer
questions and would be allowed representation by an attorney and
a public trial.  “We believe that these assurances eliminate the asserted
grounds for Mr. Snowden’s claim that he should be treated as a
refugee or granted asylum, temporary or otherwise,” Holder
wrote in the letter, addressed to Russian Justice Minister
Alexander Konovalov. Claims Snowden has made that he would be
tortured by the U.S. government “are entirely without merit.”  Snowden’s presence at the Moscow airport has further
strained relations between the U.S. and Russia weeks before
President  Barack Obama  is scheduled to meet with President
 Vladimir Putin  in Moscow in early September just ahead of a
meeting of Group of 20 nations in  St. Petersburg .  Holder’s letter was reported earlier today by the Wall
Street Journal.  Snowden Waiting  Snowden, who arrived in Moscow from Hong Kong on June 23,
is awaiting a document from the Federal Migration Service that
will enable him to cross Russia’s border and exit the airport,
Anatoly Kucherena told reporters in Moscow earlier this week.  His efforts to reach a haven in  Latin America  have been
blocked by the U.S. and its European allies. His U.S. passport
has been revoked. Snowden applied for a 12-month renewable
refugee status in Russia on July 16. Authorities have as long as
three months to consider the request, according to Kucherena.  Holder said Snowden remains an American citizen and is
eligible for limited travel documents that would allow him to
return to the U.S.  “The  United States  is willing to immediately issue such a
passport to Mr. Snowden,” Holder wrote.  U.S. Charges  The 30-year-old former U.S. contractor for the National
Security Agency is charged with espionage and theft of
government property in connection with his disclosure of two
secret U.S. government surveillance programs. One collects the
phone records of millions of U.S. citizens and another allows
for targeted collection of Internet records of foreigners
suspected of involvement in terrorism.  The Obama administration has repeatedly urged Russia to
expel Snowden to the U.S. As the standoff has dragged on, White
House officials have repeatedly declined to confirm that the
meeting with Putin will proceed.  Asked July 24 about a possible Obama-Putin meeting, White
House press secretary  Jay Carney  said, “The president intends
to travel to Russia for the G-20 Summit, and as I’ve noted in
the past, I have no further announcements to make about that
travel.”  Canceling the summit, announced in June, would deal a blow
to Obama administration efforts to smooth relations with Russia
and would be a direct challenge to Putin’s prestige. Russia
assumed the G-20 presidency for the first time last December and
Putin is the host for the group’s annual summit.  Two U.S. senators, Republican  Lindsey Graham  of  South
Carolina  and Democrat  Charles Schumer  of  New York , have
introduced a non-binding resolution urging Obama to consider
recommending shifting the G-20 to another location if  Russia 
doesn’t turn over Snowden to the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  