-- Homex Posts Second-Quarter Loss on Property Write-Off
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2013-07-29T20:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/homex-posts-809-million-loss-last-quarter-on-property-write-off.html
(Corrects size of loss in first paragraph in story that
ran July 26.)  Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*) , Mexico’s
biggest homebuilder by 2012 revenue, posted a 10.2 billion peso
($809 million) quarterly loss as sales plunged and the company
wrote down properties whose value fell after changes in
government housing policy.  The loss for the second quarter compared with a profit of
568 million pesos a year earlier, Culiacan, Mexico-based Homex
said in a filing after markets closed yesterday. The average
estimate of four analysts in a Bloomberg survey was for a loss
of 29 million pesos. Revenue fell 84 percent to 1.1 billion
pesos.  The company took a charge of 5.3 billion pesos in the
quarter after carrying out an “initial feasibility analysis”
of housing developments and land reserves based on new
government rules.  Homex and competitors  Corp. Geo SAB (GEOB)  and  Urbi Desarrollos
Urbanos SAB (URBI*)  have hired advisers to restructure debt as they face
losses on land reserves far from city centers. The government
shifted housing subsidies to favor apartment construction in
urban areas.  The results were “materially weak,” Deutsche Bank AG
analysts Esteban Polidura and Daniela Najar wrote in a note to
clients. The analysts said the earnings report showed “complete
distress” and boost the chances the company will seek
 bankruptcy protection  or a moratorium with creditors.  Homex Shares  Homex investor relations official Vania Fueyo declined to
comment on the Deutsche Bank report.  Gerardo de Nicolas, Homex’s chief executive officer, said
in the filing that the results reflect “the industry’s
regulatory and structural changes.”  Homex shares have lost 75 percent this year, the third
largest decline on  Mexico ’s benchmark IPC  equity index , and its
dollar bonds due 2020 have tumbled to about 38 cents on the
dollar.  Geo and Urbi said yesterday they would miss the stock
exchange’s scheduled deadline this week for reporting second-quarter results.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  