-- Homex Falls as Writedowns Spur Loss: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-07-29T20:43:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/homex-plunges-after-bigger-than-expected-loss-mexico-city-mover.html
(Corrects size of loss in first paragraph of story that
ran July 26.)  Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*) ,  Mexico ’s
biggest homebuilder by 2012 revenue, plunged the most on record
after posting its biggest-ever loss of 10.2 billion peso ($809
million) as sales and property values tumbled.  The shares fell 30 percent to a record low of 4.66 pesos
today in Mexico City trading, the biggest drop on a closing
basis since the shares began trading nine years ago. It was the
worst performance on the country’s benchmark IPC index, which
rose 0.8 percent.  Mexico’s largest homebuilders, which also include  Corp. Geo
SAB (GEOB)  and  Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB (URBI*) , have hired advisers to
help restructure debt accumulated while buying up properties
that have since lost money because of shifts in government
housing policies. Geo and Urbi both said yesterday that they
would miss the Mexican stock exchange’s deadline this week for
reporting quarterly results.  “We find almost no equity value for investors,” Credit
Suisse analysts Eugenio Amador and Julian Bravo Lozano wrote in
a note to clients today. “Continuity of operations going
forward is unviable until a financial restructuring is completed
and a new business plan re-establishes its assets and
liabilities.” Credit Suisse cut its target price on the shares
to 0.1 peso from 22 pesos.  The Mexico Habita Index of six homebuilders has fallen 68
percent this year as Homex, Geo and Urbi racked up losses on
land reserves they bought far from city centers in anticipation
of creating affordable homes in commuter towns. The government
over the past year has shifted subsidies to favor apartment
construction in urban areas, where commutes are shorter.  ‘Downward Adjustment’  Homex, based in Culiacan, Mexico, had been  projected  to
post a loss of 29 million pesos, the average estimate of four
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The net loss was more than six
times its current market capitalization. A year earlier, Homex
posted a profit of 568 million pesos. Second-quarter revenue
fell 84 percent to 1.1 billion pesos.  The company took a 5.27 billion peso “downward
adjustment” in land and in-process construction inventory after
a viability analysis, according to a filing yesterday. Homex
also set aside 2.1 billion pesos for uncollectable accounts
receivable.  The writedowns followed the roll-out last month of the
government’s new housing subsidy plan, Homex said. Under the
rules, location is the main way for a plot of land to qualify
for the program.  ‘Materially Weak’  “The second quarter of the year continued to be very
challenging for Homex as reflected in our results,” Gerardo de Nicolas, Homex’s chief executive officer, said on a conference
call today with investors. “We continue to feel confident about
Homex’s future despite these turbulent times that we’re
facing.”  The results were “materially weak” and boost the chances
the company will seek  bankruptcy protection  or a moratorium with
creditors, Deutsche Bank AG analysts Esteban Polidura and
Daniela Najar wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  Homex investor relations official Vania Fueyo declined to
comment on the Deutsche Bank and Credit Suisse reports.  The homebuilder’s dollar bonds due in 2020 tumbled 3.51
cents to 28.78 cents on the dollar, heading for its biggest
daily drop since May 17, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We think recovery values in a restructuring may be close
to where Homex bonds trade currently, but that there are
downside risks in the ultimate commercial viability of Homex’s
projects,” Barclays Plc analyst Autumn Graham wrote in a note
to clients.  Urbi Suspended  De Nicolas, the CEO, said the company plans to restart
stalled housing projects in the second half of the year, and to
emphasize Mexican operations over those in  Brazil . The company
didn’t take questions from analysts or journalists on the
conference call, as it has in previous quarters.  Further reductions in asset values are possible,
Corporativo GBM SAB analysts led by Javier Gayol wrote in a
research note e-mailed today.  Earlier this year, the buider had said it didn’t expect to
have to write down its properties.  “We’re confident in the quality and location of Homex’s
land reserve, and we don’t anticipate writedowns in relation to
our terrain,” Homex’s Fueyo said in a Feb. 26 e-mailed response
to questions.  Geo shares lost 24 percent today to 2.20 pesos. Urbi’s
stock was suspended from trading because of the missed reporting
deadline, according to statement to from the Mexican exchange.
Geo had applied for and received a waiver allowing a delay of 20
business days to report earnings, Francisco Valle, the head of
promotion and issuers at the exchange, said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Bank Creditors  The homebuilder slump has forced bank creditors including
Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to evaluate the
likelihood of loan losses.  Banorte, Mexico’s third-biggest bank, said yesterday that
it recorded 4 billion pesos of losses on loans to the three
biggest homebuilders in the first half of this year. Citigroup
Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach  said July 15 that the
lender has about $300 million in loans outstanding to the top
three builders. The bank is monitoring the companies’
performance “as well as the value of our collateral,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  