-- Hong Kong Regulator Summons Banks as June Loan Growth Jumps
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-07-26T06:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/hong-kong-regulator-meets-banks-after-june-loan-growth-doubles.html
The  Hong Kong  Monetary Authority is
summoning the city’s banks for meetings after a doubling in the
pace of loan growth stoked concern that credit and funding risks
have risen.  Bank loans expanded by an annualized rate of almost 40
percent in June, compared with 20 percent a month earlier, the
regulator said in an e-mailed reply to questions. The HKMA has
been talking with lenders to assess the risks and whether the
pace will continue, the regulator said in the e-mail, declining
to say when the meetings will be finished.  A cash crunch in  China ’s interbank lending market last
month, the worst in at least a decade, has reduced the
availability of funding. Money market  rates  on the mainland
spiked last month, increasing Hong Kong’s relative
attractiveness for borrowers.  “The growth of loans will come down to a more moderate
level in the remaining five months this year,” Ronald Wan, a
committee member at the Hong Kong Securities & Investment
Institute, said by phone. “Credit liquidity in mainland China
will restore to normal, making companies less willing to come to
Hong Kong to borrow money.”  Hong Kong bank loans in June jumped by about 3 percent from
May, the regulator said. That increased outstanding loans in the
city by HK$177 billion ($22.8 billion), to HK$5.92 trillion,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on HKMA loan  data .  The surge in loans, equivalent to an annual rate of almost
40 percent, is the biggest in three years,  Apple Daily  reported
earlier today. Bank lending grew 9.6 percent last year and 20
percent in 2011, according to the regulator’s latest  annual
report .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  