-- Moody’s Sees Local Default as $21 Billion Matures: China Credit
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   Y a n p i n g   L i
-- 2013-07-26T03:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/moody-s-sees-local-default-as-21-billion-matures-china-credit.html
Local-government financing vehicles
need to repay a record amount of debt this year, prompting
Moody’s Investors Service to warn Premier  Li Keqiang  may set an
example by allowing  China ’s first onshore bond default.  Some 127 billion yuan ($21 billion) of so-called LGFV notes
expire in the second half, according to Everbright Securities
Co., the most in its data going back to 2000 and more than
double the 62.7 billion yuan that matured in the first six
months. The yield premium over top-rated notes for one-year AA
debt, the most common rating for LGFVs, widened to 67 basis
points yesterday, the highest level since Jan. 16, Chinabond
data show. The comparable gap in  India  is 47.  “With bonds approaching maturity, the weaker ones will
have some problems as cash flows that they generate are very
weak,” said Christine Kuo, a Moody’s analyst in Hong Kong. “I
wouldn’t rule out the possibility of the government showcasing
some companies to go under.”  Refinancing will be a challenge after corporate bond sales
slumped to a two-year low in the second quarter and policy
makers cracked down on shadow banking activities that bypass
regulatory limits on lending. Premier Li is seeking to shift the
focus of the world’s second-largest economy away from
government-led investment and China this month cut taxes for
small businesses and eased controls on bank lending rates.  Next year, 208.8 billion  yuan  of LGFV debt comes due, up 10
percent from this year and 122 percent than in 2012, according
to Shanghai-based Everbright. Guotai Junan Securities Co., which
uses a different classification system, estimates a record 160
billion yuan of the debt matures both this year and next, up
from 110 billion yuan in 2012.  ‘High Alert’  The investment arms in the city of Ordos,  Inner Mongolia 
have amassed 240 billion yuan of debt and some district
governments there are struggling to repay debt and pay workers,
according to a magazine published by the Xinhua News Agency this
month.  Local governments set up more than 10,000 LGFVs to fund the
construction of roads, sewage plants and subways after they were
barred from directly issuing bonds under a 1994 budget law. A 4
trillion yuan stimulus plan during the 2008-09 financial crisis
swelled loans to the companies, which they have been rolling
over or refinancing with new note sales.  LGFVs may hold more than 20 trillion yuan of debt, former
Finance Minister Xiang Huaicheng said in April. That’s double
the figure given by the National Audit Office in 2011. The
government must be on “high alert” to the dangers of their
rising borrowings, Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  warned on
July 5, after central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said in March
that about 20 percent of the debt is risky.  Yield Jump  The yield on one-year securities rated AA surged 112 basis
points last month in an interbank cash squeeze, the most on
record, to 5.54 percent and was 5.59 percent yesterday. The
benchmark one-year treasury  yield  increased three basis points
this month to 3.51 percent after a 61 basis-point jump in June.  “We remain bearish on AA-or-below-rated LGFV notes as they
heavily depend on borrowings to repay debts,” said Zhao Bowen,
a credit analyst at Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. in Beijing.
“Should the government remain tight on sales, LGFVs face a
greater risk of default. Once one goes broke, the fall could
lead to a domino effect among the weaker LGFVs and cause a
systemic risk.”  To limit the fallout, he forecast the government will help
approve bond sales for selected companies. China will support
local governments in raising funds for shantytown redevelopment,
the  Finance Ministry  said this week. Policy makers also expanded
a trial that allows regional authorities to directly sell bonds
to include Jiangsu and Shandong provinces earlier this month.  ‘Moral Hazard’  Zhao said the average yield of AA-rated LGFV notes may
climb to 7 percent this quarter from the current range of 6.3
percent to 6.5 percent. Most LGFV bonds are rated AA and above,
according to Bank of America Corp.  The yield on Lishui City Construction Investment Co.’s
notes due May 2020 climbed 25 basis points this month to 6.26
percent yesterday, China Interbank Funding Center prices show.
Liaoyang City Assets Operation & Management Co.’s November 2019
bonds yielded 7.53 percent, 73 basis points more than at the end
of June, according to  Shanghai  Stock Exchange prices.  Rising borrowing costs for LGFVs reflect uncertainty that
the central government will bail them out in case of distress,
said Bin Gao, BOA’s head of Asia-Pacific rates research in  Hong
Kong . “The government has more willingness to allow some kind
of restructuring or default to reduce moral hazard,” he said.  Painful Reform  Premier Li described reform as the “biggest dividend for
China” in his first press conference on March 17 and said that
cutting the government’s power was a “self-imposed
revolution,” that would “be very painful and even feel like
cutting one’s wrist.” Policy makers refrained from adding cash
to the banking system, sending interbank money rates to a record
last month. Total financing, the broadest measure of credit,
slid to 1.04 trillion yuan in June, the least since April 2012,
as policy makers curbed unregulated lending.  The authorities are focusing instead on financial reforms
to revive the economy after growth slowed to 7.5 percent last
quarter. China scrapped a floor for banks’ lending rates on July
19, raised the limit for foreign investment in  capital markets 
on July 12 and is planning to set up a pilot free-trade zone in
Shanghai. The State Council approved tax breaks for small
companies this week and said railway construction will be
accelerated to support the economy.  Issuance Slump  Corporate bond sales fell to 219 billion yuan in the last
three months, the least since the third quarter of 2011, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. LGFVs’ issuance slipped to 53.5
billion yuan in June from 93.5 billion yuan in May, according to
data from Everbright Securities. The decline came after the
National Development and Reform Commission restricted bond-sale
applications from LGFVs in April.  Li Qing, a credit analyst at Guotai Junan in Shanghai,
predicted issuance by LGFVs will remain around or below 50
billion yuan a month in the second half, while Zhao at Shenyin &
Wanguo forecast a rebound from this quarter onwards.  There have been no defaults in the publicly traded domestic
debt market since the central bank started regulating it in
1997, according to Moody’s.  The possibility of the first is making it more expensive to
insure Chinese bond holdings using  credit-default swaps . Five-year contracts on sovereign debt rose 45 basis points this year
to 112 in  New York , according to CMA prices. They reached 147
last month, the highest since January 2012. The yuan weakened
0.17 percent since reaching a 19-year high of 6.1210 per dollar
on May 27 in Shanghai. The rate was at 6.1326 today.  “The amount of bonds set to mature is getting bigger while
the financial situation of LGFVs is getting worse and worse,”
Bank of Amercia’s Gao said. “We do think there’s a higher
chance for some LGFV bonds not to be paid back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Yanping Li in Singapore at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Ven Ram at 
 vram1@bloomberg.net  