-- TOP Oil Market News: WTI Poised for Weekly Decline on Supplies
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-07-26T07:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/top-oil-market-news-wti-poised-for-weekly-decline-on-supplies.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Poised for Weekly Drop as Rising U.S. Supply Counters Growth  West Texas Intermediate was poised for the first weekly
decline in more than a month as rising crude production
countered signs of economic growth in the U.S., the world’s
biggest oil consumer.  TOP OIL MARKET NEWS  Crude May Decline on Signs of Economic Weakness, Survey Shows  West Texas Intermediate crude will probably decline next
week on concern that weak economic growth will reduce demand, a
Bloomberg survey showed.  World Energy Consumption to Increase 56% by 2040 Led by Asia (2)  World energy consumption will rise 56 percent in the next
three decades, driven by growth in developing countries such as
China and  India , the Energy Information Administration said.  Iraq to Reduce Kirkuk Crude Exports to 15 Cargoes in August  Iraq plans to reduce exports of its Kirkuk crude in August
from the Turkish port of Ceyhan to 15 cargoes, two less than
this month, according to a loading program obtained by Bloomberg
News.  Shell, Vitol Bid for Forties; Urals Primorsk Oil Exports to Drop  Benchmark North Sea Forties crude was bid higher with no
trades done. Russia plans to ship less than 1 million barrels a
day of Urals from the port of Primorsk for a third month, with
shipments set to drop to the lowest in more than five years, a
preliminary loading program showed.  Nigeria to Keep Crude Oil Exports Little Changed in September  Nigeria,  Africa ’s largest oil producer, will keep daily
crude exports for September little changed from August,
according to loading programs obtained by Bloomberg News
covering 17 grades excluding Bonny Light.  Tropical Storm Dorian Maintains Strength on Path Across Atlantic  Tropical Storm Dorian maintained its strength as it moved
across the Atlantic, according to the U.S. National Hurricane
Center.  Gasoil Stockpiles Rise in Europe’s Oil-Trading Hub, PJK Says  Gasoil stockpiles in independent storage rose in Europe’s
Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp oil-trading hub, according to PJK
International BV.  OPEC  OPEC to Reduce Exports as Demand Passes Peak, Oil Movements Says  Crude shipments from the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will decline from near their highest in a
year as summer demand passes its peak, tanker-tracker Oil
Movements said.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Valero Ardmore Refinery Reported Emissions July 23  Refinery in Okla. reported yesterday that plant began
releasing emissions July 23, notice to state regulators shows.  CVR Wynnewood Refinery Reported Startup July 22  Refinery in Okla. reported yesterday that plant began
releasing emissions July 22 related to a startup, notice to
state regulators shows.  Holly Tulsa East Refinery Reported Emissions Yesterday  Refinery in Okla. said plant released emissions July 23,
July 24, notices to state regulators show.  Husky Lloydminster Upgrader Turnaround to Start Early September  Husky’s Lloydminster Upgrader will undergo maintenance in
September and be offline for 45 days, said, Alister Cowan, Co.’s  CFO, in 2Q13 earnings call.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Are Unchanged  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline, jet fuel or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
 Japan  was unchanged at 6.69 U.S. cents yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Russian August Primorsk Oil Exports to Drop to Five-Year Low (1)  Russia plans to ship less than 1 million barrels a day of
Urals crude from the port of Primorsk for a third month, with
shipments set to drop to the lowest in more than five years, a
preliminary loading program showed.  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crude grades from the Middle East, Asia,
Africa and the Americas. Figures are in dollars a barrel, or
premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where plus and
minus symbols appear.  Libya Cuts August Es Sider Crude Price to 20-Cent Discount (1)  Libya’s state-run National Oil Corp. reduced its official
selling price of benchmark Es Sider crude for August to 20 cents
a barrel less than Dated Brent, compared with a discount of 5
cents for July, according to a price list obtained by Bloomberg
News.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Halliburton, Baker Hughes Cooperating With U.S. Frack Probe (3)  Halliburton Co. and Baker Hughes Inc., two of the largest
providers of hydraulic-fracturing services, said they are
cooperating with a U.S. Justice Department antitrust
investigation related to the fracking market.  Oneok to Spin Off Gas Distribution Business Into One Gas (3)  Oneok Inc., the Oklahoma-based operator of natural gas
pipelines, said it will spin off its utility business, sending
shares up the most in more than four years to lead the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index today.  Buffett Says Coal’s Decline in U.S. to Be Gradual Yet Permanent  Coal use in the U.S. will continue to fall though the slide
will be gradual as electric utilities switch to cleaner
alternatives over “years and years,” billionaire  Warren
Buffett  said at an event in  Indiana  this week.  Repsol Seeks to Block Chevron Deal With YPF via World Bank (1)  Repsol SA is asking a World Bank panel to help prevent
Argentina’s YPF SA from developing assets seized from the
Spanish oil producer after Chevron Corp. agreed to invest $1.24
billion in a shale venture in the country.  Antitrust Probe Targets Halliburton’s Fracking Business: Energy  A federal antitrust probe into the $36 billion hydraulic
fracturing market is increasing pressure on oilfield-service
companies already reeling as skyrocketing competition cuts into
their profit margins.  Leak Stopped and Fire Almost Out at Walter’s Gulf Gas Well (2)  The flow of natural gas from a leaking Walter Oil & Gas
Corp. well in the Gulf of Mexico that caused a fire aboard a
drilling rig was halted after surrounding sediment and sand
naturally plugged the hole.  OTHER MARKETS  Asian Stocks Fall as Topix Declines on Earnings; Gasoline Rises  Asian stocks fell, with the regional benchmark index
trimming a fifth weekly advance, as Japanese shares dropped amid
disappointing earnings. The yen and South Korea’s won climbed,
while gasoline rebounded.  Dollar Set for Weekly Drop Versus Peers Before Fed; Yen Advances  The Dollar Index fell, extending a third-straight weekly
decline, on speculation the Federal Reserve will reassure
investors at next week’s meeting that policy will remain
accommodative.  Euro Seen as Biggest Loser in G-10 on Fed Tapering: Currencies  The euro and New Zealand dollar are emerging as the
developed-world currencies most vulnerable to whipsawing
sentiment about how quickly the U.S. Federal Reserve will pull
back from its unprecedented stimulus measures.  Capital-Goods Order Record May Aid U.S. Stocks: Chart of the Day  Record-setting orders for production equipment last month
are a sign that stocks have more going for them than the Federal
Reserve’s bond buying, according to Neil Dutta, head of U.S.
economics at Renaissance Macro Research LLC.  Gold Bulls Retreat as Higher Prices Deter Jewelers: Commodities  Gold traders are the least bullish in four weeks as jewelry
purchases slowed.  Ma Says Taiwan People Override Missiles in Deciding on Xi Meet  The more than 1,100 Chinese missiles aimed at  Taiwan  are
less of an impediment to a meeting with President Xi Jinping
than whether talks would be backed by the island’s people,
Taiwan President Ma Ying-jeou said.  Inter-Korean Talks Break Down With ‘Pushing and Shoving’ (2)  Talks between the two Koreas aimed at reopening the
jointly-operated Gaeseong factory park broke down yesterday,
with negotiators from both sides “pushing and shoving” and no
agreement for dialogue to resume.  SPORTS  Cowboys Reach Agreement With AT&T to Name NFL Stadium (1)  The Dallas Cowboys and AT&T Inc. reached an agreement to
name the National Football League team’s stadium after the
U.S.’s largest phone company.  FC Barcelona Said to Open Hong Kong Office as Soccer Teams Grow  Spanish soccer league champion FC Barcelona agreed to lease
space in a building in Hong Kong’s Central business district as
European teams seek to expand their fan base in Asia.  ENERGY PRICES  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  