-- Morgan Stanley Can Pursue Skowron Fraud Claim, Judge Says
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-07-26T23:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/morgan-stanley-can-pursue-skowron-fraud-claim-judge-says.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  can pursue a fraud
claim as it seeks to recover damages from Joseph “Chip” Skowron, a former hedge fund manager serving a five-year prison
term for  insider trading , a federal judge ruled.  Skowron managed Morgan Stanley’s FrontPoint Partners LLC
until he was charged in 2011 with using inside information to
avoid $30 million in losses. The New York-based bank sued
Skowron after he pleaded guilty to conspiring to commit
 securities fraud  and obstruct justice, seeking to recover $33
million it paid U.S. regulators and the $32 million it paid him.  Skowron, 44, asked U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in
 Manhattan  to dismiss three of Morgan Stanley’s claims, including
that he defrauded the bank and breached his fiduciary duty. The
judge ruled that the bank can seek to prove its fraud claim,
while dismissing its fiduciary duty claim. She said Skowron
covered up his crimes as the bank and U.S. government
investigated.  “I decline to impose on Morgan Stanley the duty to ferret
out the truth from a man who lied for years not only to Morgan
Stanley but also to his own lawyers and to the government,”
Scheindlin ruled July 23 in federal court in New York.  The judge also granted Skowron’s motion to dismiss Morgan
Stanley’s breach of fiduciary duty claim relating to the bank’s
payment of $33 million to settle with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Morgan Stanley had agreed to cover any
liabilities incurred by FrontPoint for alleged violations of the
law, according to the judge.  ‘Losses Avoided’  “That the losses were avoided because of Skowron’s insider
trading and not Morgan Stanley’s wrongdoing does not alter the
conclusion that the settlement amount represented money which
FrontPoint and Morgan Stanley were never entitled to retain,”
according to the judge.  Josh Epstein , a lawyer for Skowron, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment about the ruling.  Kevin Marino , a lawyer for Morgan Stanley, said “We’re
very pleased that the court rejected Mr. Skowron’s attempt to
escape the consequences of his fraud and look forward to
pursuing this case to a successful resolution.”  On July 16, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Manhattan ruled
that Morgan Stanley is entitled to $10.2 million in restitution
from Skowron. The court upheld a judge’s ruling that Skowron
owed the bank 20 percent of his salary from 2007 to 2010, or
$6.4 million, and $3.8 million in legal fees.  Secret Tips  In August 2011, Skowron admitted to helping FrontPoint
avoid more than $30 million in trading losses on Human Genome
Sciences Inc., a Rockville, Maryland, pharmaceutical firm that
was acquired by  GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)   Skowron admitted he got secret tips from a French
physician, Yves Benhamou, who helped oversee a clinical trial of
a Human Genome hepatitis drug, Albuferon. After Benhamou told
Skowron about disappointing results in the drug trial, Skowron
sold Human Genome shares in FrontPoint’s funds.  Skowron, a Yale University and Harvard University-trained
doctor who quit medicine for  Wall Street , is serving his term at
McKean Federal Correction Institution in northwestern
Pennsylvania, according to the  Federal Bureau  of Prisons
website.  The District Court case is U.S. v. Skowron, 1:11-cr-00699,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).
The appeal is U.S. v. Skowron, 12-1284, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit (Manhattan). Morgan Stanley’s suit is
Morgan Stanley v. Skowron, 12-cv-8016, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in federal court in Newark,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in Manhattan
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 