-- Morgan Stanley to JPMorgan Said to Keep Trading With SAC
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-07-26T18:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/morgan-stanley-to-jpmorgan-said-to-keep-trading-with-sac.html
Bank of America  Corp.,  JPMorgan (JPM) 
Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley are among Wall Street banks
continuing to trade with SAC Capital Advisors LP after U.S.
prosecutors indicted the hedge fund for insider trading,
according to four people briefed on the matter.  The firms are still providing trading and prime brokerage
services to the hedge fund founded by  Steven A. Cohen , said the
people, who asked not to be identified talking about a specific
client. The government has no plan to freeze fund assets,
prevent redemptions or affect interests of SAC counterparties,
 Stamford , Connecticut-based SAC said yesterday after the
government’s criminal charges were made public.  Banks have been grappling with the reputational and
financial consequences of continuing their dealings with SAC,
one of Wall Street’s largest trading clients. The $14 billion
hedge fund was indicted for perpetrating what prosecutors called
an unprecedented insider-trading scheme.  “You’re always between a rock and a hard place when you’re
the credit guy trying to decide to what to do,” said  James Rickards , senior managing director at Tangent Capital Partners
LLC and former general counsel at Long-Term Capital Management
LP, which was one of the world’s biggest hedge funds before
losing $4 billion in 1998.  Banks have to ask themselves “what is the risk that I lose
money? What is the risk that they get into stress and I don’t
get paid? What is the risk that the regulator criticizes me or
my reputation is tarnished?” Rickards said. “The other side is
I like the commissions and I want to be a stand-up guy, and I
don’t want to be perceived as a guy who cut and run.”  Protective Measures  It’s unclear whether other lenders including  Goldman Sachs (GS) 
Group Inc.,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  had changed any
of their dealings with SAC. Spokesmen for the banks declined to
comment.  Banks may continue to deal with the hedge-fund firm while
protecting themselves by reducing credit limits, requiring more
collateral and halting trades in over-the-counter products, said
Rickards, who was a credit officer at Greenwich  Capital Markets 
when junk-bond powerhouse Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. collapsed
in 1990.  “There’s a lot of things you can do between doing nothing
and cutting them off completely to improve your position,” said
Rickards. “If everyone hangs together, and everyone does some
common-sense things, it’s business as usual. But if one domino
falls, the rest of them will fall very quickly, and that’s why
everyone is on eggshells.”  Allegations Denied  SAC denied it encouraged or tolerated  insider trading  and
said it will continue to operate as it works through the
allegations. The Securities and Exchange Commission filed an
administrative complaint against Cohen last week, seeking to ban
him from overseeing investor funds for allegedly failing to
supervise employees and prevent them from engaging in insider
trading.  No major financial-services firm has survived a criminal
indictment in the U.S. While Cohen has vowed to keep open the
most successful equity hedge-fund manager, clients have already
pulled billions from its funds. SAC Capital said in a regulatory
filing this week that it managed $13.9 billion of net assets as
of July 1.  The hedge fund has been among the largest trading clients
for New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Goldman Sachs, according
to people with knowledge of the relationships. SAC has used
those firms, along with JPMorgan,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , as prime brokers, Reuters reported in 2011.  Reputational Risk  Some of the world’s biggest banks have been emphasizing
their efforts to behave ethically, put clients first, cooperate
with regulators and temper risk-taking after reputations were
damaged during the credit crisis, government-funded bailouts and
scandals throughout the financial industry.  “There is definitely reputational risk at this point that
didn’t exist before as a result of the indictment,” Rickards
said. “I know we’re innocent until proven guilty, and I respect
that, but there’s no requirement that a counterparty be good to
the last drop. You’re allowed to make sensible business
decisions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  