-- Most Emerging Stocks Decline as Samsung, Embraer Sink
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-07-26T22:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/most-emerging-stocks-decline-as-samsung-slides-tencent-rallies.html
Most emerging-market stocks fell as
Samsung Electronics Co.’s earnings missed estimates and
planemaker  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  posted a surprise loss. Turkish stocks
capped the biggest weekly loss since June after policy makers
raised borrowing costs.  Samsung, the world’s biggest smartphone maker, retreated
for the first time in a week in  Seoul . Embraer, the world’s
largest regional-jet maker, fell the most in more than a year in
 Sao Paulo . Akbank TAS, the Turkish lender part-owned by
Citigroup Inc., dropped to a two-week low after profit trailed
projections. Homebuilder Desarrolladora Homex SAB sank 30
percent in Mexico City after posting a record quarterly loss.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 0.1 percent to 961.53,
with 433 of its member stocks falling. The decline pared the
gauge’s five-day gain to 1.2 percent, a third weekly advance.
About 55 percent of companies in the index that posted quarterly
earnings this month  trailed  estimates. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  will hold a meeting next week, and a July 31 report
may show U.S. economic growth slowed in the April-to-June
period.  “ Emerging markets  have some pretty meaningful headwinds
against them right now,” James W. Gaul, a portfolio manager at
Boston Advisors LLC, which oversees about $2.6 billion in
assets, said by phone. “The story is starting to look a bit
more interesting, but we don’t yet see the catalyst. They’re
going through a difficult period, and that is going to flow
through to the companies.”  Brazilian Steelmakers  Benchmark gauges in  China ,  Turkey ,  Poland ,  Hungary  and the
 Philippines  fell at least 0.5 percent. Indexes in  Thailand  and
the Czech Republic gained more than 0.6 percent.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund lost 0.2 percent to $39.83. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
fell 1 percent to 21.30.  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  capped its best weekly gain in 10 months
as Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA jumped 15 percent,
leading a rally in steelmakers after its second-quarter earnings
beat estimates.  Embraer posted a net loss of 9.9 million reais ($4.4
million) in the second quarter, surprising analysts who on
average had forecast a profit of 217 million reais. The stock
slumped 5.7 percent.  The Mexican IPC Index rose 0.8 percent. Homex, the
country’s biggest homebuilder by 2012 revenue, plunged the most
on record after posting its biggest-ever loss of 10.1 billion
peso ($797 million) as sales and property values tumbled.  Turkey Rates  Akbank sank 4.2 percent in Istanbul, falling for a sixth
straight day, the longest streak in almost two months.  Turcas
Petrol AS (TRCAS)  lost 1.6 percent after the Turkish energy company said
Finance Ministry officials started an inspection at its venture
with Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  Turkey’s central bank increased its overnight lending rate
by 0.75 percentage point to 7.25 percent on July 23 and said
“additional monetary tightening will be implemented when
necessary.” The country’s benchmark equity index fell 4.4
percent this week.  PKN Orlen SA and Grupa Lotos SA, Poland’s largest oil
companies, sank more than 4.4 percent. PKN tumbled 12 percent
this week after reporting its loss widened in the second
quarter. KGHM Polska Miedz SA, the country’s sole copper
producer, lost 2.5 percent. Mol Nyrt., Hungary’s biggest
refiner, slipped 0.5 percent.  Oil, Copper  Oil dropped 0.7 percent in  New York , capping its first
weekly decline in more than a month. Copper also slid in New
York.  Telefonica  Czech Republic  AS jumped 4 percent to a five-week high after Russian billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov said
he’s studying takeover targets including the Spanish phone
company’s Czech unit. Evtushenkov, owner of Russia’s largest
wireless operator OAO Mobile TeleSystems, said in an interview
he is considering targets in various markets though he currently
doesn’t have any concrete proposals pending. MTS gained 0.6
percent in Moscow.  OAO Uralkali, the world’s largest potash producer by
output, rose 1.6 percent in Moscow, rebounding from its lowest
level since December 2010. Russia’s Micex Index snapped two days
of declines as it climbed 0.1 percent.  The MSCI Emerging-Markets Index has lost 8.9 percent this
year, while the MSCI World Index of developed-country stocks has
gained 13 percent. The emerging-stocks measure trades at 10.1
times 12-month projected earnings, compared with the MSCI
world’s multiple of 13.8, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Samsung Earnings  Samsung (005930)  dropped 0.9 percent, the biggest drag to the MSCI
developing-nation gauge, after its second-quarter earnings
trailed estimates as market saturation for high-end handsets
curbed sales growth for its flagship Galaxy S4.  The won increased 0.4 percent against the dollar, extending
its third week of gains after Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said the economy is overcoming the impact of a weak yen. The
Indian rupee strengthened for a third day, adding 0.1 percent,
bringing this week’s gain to 0.5 percent. The currency rallied
after the central bank tightened the supply of cash to arrest
the rupee’s slide.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 0.5 percent after
China’s government ordered cuts to production capacity in 19
industries.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 315 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  