-- Total Reports ‘Encouraging’ Drilling Results in Kurdistan
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-07-26T16:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/total-reports-encouraging-drilling-results-in-kurdistan.html
Total SA (FP)  drilled successfully in
Kurdistan as part of a plan by Europe’s third-largest oil
company to explore more aggressively to boost production.  “We have several exciting prospects,” Chief Financial
Officer Patrick de la Chevardiere said today on a conference
call. Total is also drilling exploration wells in Gabon,
Indonesia, Argentina and the  Gulf of Mexico  and is also
preparing more in Brazil and Angola, he said.  Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie has pledged
to boost production, targeting average annual growth of 3
percent from 2011 to 2015 even after losing volumes the past two
years. The French company has promised to take more risks, with
plans for more than 60 wells this year.  A well drilled in the Harir block in Kurdistan is “showing
encouraging results” and is being tested while another at Tazir
has also shown “good results,” de la Chevardiere said. The
“very active” Kurdistan exploration program will include four
more wells.  Total has 35 percent stakes in the Harir and Safen blocks
that it bought from  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  It also holds a 20
percent interest in the Taza license held by  Oil Search Ltd. (OSH)   Iraq’s Kurds will start exporting crude by pipeline “very
soon” after the completion of a new link to the Turkish border
by the end of September, the Kurdistan Regional Government’s
natural resources minister said in London last month.  The landlocked, self-governed Kurdish enclave halted crude
exports through the Iraqi central government-run pipeline since
December. The Kurds are sparring with the Oil Ministry in
 Baghdad  over the sharing of revenue from crude sales and
payments owed to international companies.  Total announced in January 2011 a “bolder” approach to
exploration by seeking oil and natural gas reserves in a wider
and riskier range of geographic zones and geologies.  “We haven’t yet found the giant field we are looking
for,” de la Chevardiere said. He cited discoveries in
Argentina, Australia, Kurdistan,  Ivory Coast  and the U.K. as
successes to date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  