-- OTP Records Best Week in 6 Months on Loan Plan: Budapest Mover
-- B y   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-07-26T15:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/otp-set-for-best-week-in-15-months-on-loan-plan-budapest-mover.html
OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
lender, recorded its biggest weekly gain in six months after an
economy ministry official said the nation will consult banks on
its plan to phase out foreign-currency mortgages.  The shares rose as much as 2.4 percent and closed little
changed at 4,538 forint in Budapest, bringing their advance this
week to 8.1 percent, the largest increase for the period since
Jan. 18. The  BUX index  fell for the first time in four days,
down 0.9 percent, paring its weekly gain to 1.2 percent.  The process to remove foreign-currency loans will probably
take years, Gabor Orban, a state secretary at the ministry, said
in an interview with  Bloomberg News  late yesterday. OTP slumped
17 percent last week as the Justice Ministry said the cabinet is
looking at the possibility of modifying the terms of the
mortgages and as Chief Executive Officer Sandor Csanyi sold
shares.  “As the market expected the worst-case scenario with
regard to OTP, there may be an appreciation in the stock,”  Akos Kuti , Budapest-based head of research at broker Equilor
Befektetesi Zrt., said in an e-mailed note to investors today.
“As long as the uncertainty persists, the volatility may
remain.”  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , who faces elections next year,
wants to help borrowers of mostly Swiss-franc home loans whose
payments soared as the forint weakened during the credit crisis.
Measures already introduced since 2011, including fixing
exchange rates at below-market levels, allowing early repayments
and setting up a state aid fund, have weighed on the
profitability of banks.  “We will leave time so that everyone can say there view
and so that we can discuss possible instruments,” Economy
Minister Mihaly Varga said in an interview with news website
Portfolio.hu.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  