-- Tourre Tells Jurors ‘I Haven’t Done Anything Wrong’
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-07-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/tourre-tells-jurors-i-haven-t-done-anything-wrong-.html
Fabrice Tourre made one final
attempt to convince jurors in  Manhattan  that he didn’t defraud
investors in a 2007 mortgage bond-backed investment that lost
them $1 billion when the U.S. housing market crashed.  “I haven’t done anything wrong, as I’m here literally to
tell the truth and to clear my name,” Tourre, 34, said
yesterday as he wrapped up his testimony in the trial of the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s civil fraud case
against him.  The SEC claims Tourre, a former vice president at  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , hid the involvement of the hedge fund Paulson
& Co. in selecting the mortgage bonds underlying the investment,
known as Abacus 2007-AC1, and then made a $1 billion bet it
would fail. The agency plans to rest its case against Tourre
when the trial reconvenes July 29.  Tourre testified he made $1.7 million in salary and bonus
in 2007. If found liable for fraud, he faces money penalties and
a possible ban from the securities industry.  Tourre told jurors yesterday that he learned in April 2010
the SEC was suing him and Goldman Sachs over Abacus from a news
headline scrolling on his Bloomberg terminal. At the time, he
was working in  London  after moving there from  New York , where he
had structured and marketed Abacus.  Career ‘Destroyed’  Tourre, a French citizen, said he voluntarily testified
before a U.S. Senate subcommittee in 2010. After that he “had
to take a step back and think about what to do,” as his career
had been “effectively destroyed” by the allegations. Tourre
was placed on paid leave by Goldman Sachs for one year, at his
base salary of about $750,000. He said he hoped he’d be able to
return to the firm.  “I was hoping I could make the SEC understand this
transaction,” he said.  Tourre told jurors he did volunteer work in  East Africa  and
is now pursuing a doctorate in economics at the  University of
Chicago .  The SEC called Tourre to the stand the afternoon of July
24. He testified all day July 25 and part of yesterday morning.  Two days ago, Tourre told jurors about working at Goldman
Sachs, six days a week, often until midnight.  “I would say there were thousands of vice presidents at
Goldman,” Tourre said.  Tourre’s lead lawyer,  Pamela Chepiga , sought to minimize
Tourre’s responsibility for the Abacus transaction by
highlighting his relatively junior status and showing that the
transaction was reviewed by dozens of people at Goldman Sachs.  Tourre was called as a witness by the SEC and was
questioned by both sides. He isn’t expected to testify again
when his defense team presents its case next week.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 