-- Pakistan Attacks Kill 9 Day After Bombs Leave 60 Dead
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2013-07-27T08:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/pakistan-bombing-kills-40-wounds-60-official-says.html
At least nine people were killed and
25 others wounded in attacks on two Pakistan security posts, a
day after more than 60 people died and 187 were injured by two
bomb blasts in the northwestern city of Parachinar.  Militants today attacked a check post in the northern part
of the country, killing two, Geo TV reported, citing officials
it didn’t identify. A separate assault in western Gwadar city
near the border with  Iran  left seven dead, Geo reported. The
Gwadar attack was against a Coast Guards station, Major General
Zafar, a spokesman, said by phone.  A majority of those killed and injured in yesterday’s
bombings were Shiites, according to Muhammad Arbab, a government
official in Parachinar.  “They appear to be suicide attacks,” Arbab said by phone
yesterday. One targeted a crowded bazaar in a Shiite
neighborhood and the other struck people on a roadside, he said.  The injured were taken to a nearby hospital while bodies of
those killed were moved separately, Geo reported yesterday.
Paramilitary and local police had cordoned off the area, the
television channel said.  The bombings occurred four days before a July 30 poll to
elect a new president. President Bilawal Bhutto Zardari’s
Peoples Party lost the May 11 parliamentary election to  Nawaz Sharif ’s Muslim League party. Sharif’s candidate, Mamnoon Hussain, is said to be the likely winner in the presidential
election, according to forecasts by local media.  Raza Rabbani, candidate for the  People’s Party , said
earlier today that his party was pulling out of the presidential
election because of a Supreme Court decision to bring balloting
forward to July 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Kraus at 
 jkraus2@bloomberg.net  