-- Panalpina Cuts Ocean Freight Forecast as Capacity Exceeds Demand
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-07-26T14:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/panalpina-cuts-ocean-freight-forecast-as-capacity-exceeds-demand.html
Panalpina Welttransport Holding AG (PWTN) ,
the world’s fourth-largest seafreight forwarder by revenue,
reduced its growth forecast for the ocean freight market as
shipping capacity outpaced demand.  Panalpina followed industry leader Kuehne & Nagel
International AG in projecting growth of 2 percent to 3 percent
this year, down from as much as 4 percent predicted in May, a
company presentation showed.  “We cut our market forecast as decreasing dynamics in the
last months have led us to believe that 4 percent growth is
unlikely this year,” said Rainer Weihofen, global head of
corporate communication at  Basel , Switzerland-based Panalpina.  The container-shipping industry is suffering from a glut
after a boom in ship deliveries coincided with the worst slump
in freight demand since the 1970s. Deutsche Bahn AG, whose DB
Schenker unit is the third-biggest seafreight forwarder, also
pared its growth forecast yesterday to 2 percent from 4 percent.  Panalpina is betting it’ll outperform the market after
adding customers in the manufacturing and energy industries in
the second quarter.  “In the ocean freight business we won clients from the
manufacturing sector and the oil and gas industry, for whom we
ship equipment such as oil rigs,” Weihofen said by telephone.
Panalpina also saw more sea and air trade within  Asia , he said.
“We want to expand there, as trade in that region is growing
most rapidly, for instance between north  China  and  Vietnam .”  Panalpina shipped 5 percent more standard 20-foot
containers, or TEUs, across the oceans in the quarter than a
year earlier, exceeding market growth of about 2 percent, it
said. Gross profit per container rose 8 percent from a year
earlier and was little changed from the first quarter, according
to its  interim statement .  Air freight volumes handled grew in the period for the
first time in more than two years, Panalpina said, forecasting
that it may be able to outperform the industry in the full year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  