-- Pearson Rises to Highest Since 2001 on Higher Sales
-- B y   S a m   C h a m b e r s ,   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r   a n d   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-07-26T13:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/pearson-first-half-profit-falls-on-new-product-investments.html
Pearson Plc (PSON) , the publisher of the
Financial Times newspaper, rose to the highest level in 12 years
after reporting first-half sales that beat analyst estimates.  Revenue rose 5 percent to 2.8 billion pounds ($4.3
billion), Pearson said in a statement today. That beat the
average analyst estimate of 2.69 billion pounds, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock climbed as much as 9.4
percent to its highest price since May 2001. The shares were up
8.6 percent at 1,359 pence as of 1:37 p.m. in  London .  “Good growth in our digital, services and developing-market businesses continues to offset tough conditions for
traditional publishing,” Chief Executive Officer John Fallon
said on a conference call. “With our restructuring program on
track and the reorganization of the company under way, we are
making significant progress towards that goal.”  Pearson has said it will spend 150 million pounds on
reorganizing this year to accelerate its education business’s
move to fast-growing regions and digital services. In February,
the company forecast that 2013 operating profit will be
“broadly level” with 2012 before restructuring costs and
including the Penguin book unit for the full year, which it
reiterated today. The company said it will pay an interim
dividend of 16 pence a share.  MergerMarket Sale  Pearson sales are “ahead of expectations,” Credit Suisse
analysts including Nick Bertolotti said in a note today. “We
believe good management and digital exposure will result in
ongoing market share gains.”  Pearson said it’s exploring the possible sale of
MergerMarket, an information provider of market data on
activities such as mergers and acquisitions. The company has
said restructuring will generate about 100 million pounds of
annual cost savings in 2014.  The plan to sell MergerMarket is a signal that Pearson
wants to unload the FT Group, which includes the Financial Times
newspaper, “bit by bit,”  Alex DeGroote , a media analyst at
Panmure Gordon & Co. in London, said in a phone interview. He
predicted a sale of the newspaper and Pearson’s stake in the
Economist magazine, as well as other parts of FT Group, within
12 months. Pearson would be “worse off” after such an exit
because it would be “undiversified” and too dependent on
education, he said.  Education Growth  In March, Fallon told Financial Times employees that there
would be fewer jobs in the U.S. and U.K. as Pearson focused on
emerging markets, according to a person who attended the
meeting. He also said Pearson was attempting to do in one year a
restructuring that would normally be spread over six.  Pearson unveiled a new leadership team with the
reorganization in May to drive efforts in digital learning,
education and  emerging markets . From January, the company will
be divided into three worldwide business groups called School,
Higher Education and Professional, and geographically grouped at
 North America , Growth and Core.  “Education is now emerging as one of the major growth
industries for the next decade and beyond; it is serving a huge
rise in the global middle class, and we now need to be thinking
of how to serve global products focused on efficacy,” said
Fallon, who took over from Marjorie Scardino this year.  Developing markets accounted for 45 percent of
International Education revenues last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sam Chambers in London at 
 schambers7@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Pashley in London at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  