-- Pemex Cuts Crude Goal as Cantarell Wanes Ahead of Energy Debate
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z   a n d   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-07-26T18:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/pemex-cuts-crude-goal-as-cantarell-wanes-ahead-of-energy-debate.html
Petroleos Mexicanos , the world’s
fifth-largest oil producer, lowered a year-end 2013 output goal
after failing to maintain crude from its Cantarell field.  While Mexico’s state-owned company known as Pemex plans to
increase production in the second-half of the year, the average
at year-end will be 2.541 million barrels a day,  Carlos Morales ,
head of production and exploration, said today on a call with
analysts. The estimate is 0.3 percent lower than December’s
average of 2.549 million and 0.6 percent below the company’s
goal to produce more than 2.55 million barrels this year.  Pemex has failed to halt eight years of production declines
as output from Cantarell plunged more than 80 percent since 2004
to last month’s 388,000 barrels a day. Cantarell was the world’s
third-largest deposit when it was discovered in 1976.  A bill that would end the government’s monopoly on
production and allow for private investment is expected to be
presented to congress when regular sessions resume by September,
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto told Bloomberg in June.
 Mexico ’s energy reform is expected to be submitted in the coming
weeks or in a month, Pemex’s Chief Financial Officer Mario
Meauregard said on today’s call.  Cantarell’s  production  has been limited by “the fractional
water flow of wells and a natural decline in production,” the
Mexico City-based company said today in a quarterly
presentation. Cantarell produced 380,000 a day so far this
month, heading for its lowest average on record, according to
Pemex and Energy Ministry data.  Pemex earlier today reported its second-quarter net loss
widened to 49 billion pesos ($3.87 billion) from the year-ago
period. Sales slid 3.2 percent to 393 billion pesos on lower
fuel prices and declining exports, the company said in a
regulatory filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  