-- Philippines Doesn’t Need Additional Stimulus, Tetangco Says
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2013-07-26T04:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/philippines-doesn-t-need-additional-stimulus-now-tetangco-says.html
The  Philippines  doesn’t need further
stimulus now, and the outlook for the global economy suggests
the use of caution in monetary policy, central bank Governor
Amando Tetangco said.  “Domestic growth in the Philippines is strong, and
therefore, we don’t see any real need for stimulus at this
point,” Tetangco said today in an interview with Zeb Eckert on
Bloomberg Television. “The recent volatility in international
markets, owing to concerns of the timing of the Fed tapering
would suggest caution in assessing the policy stance.”  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas yesterday held its benchmark
 interest rate  at a record-low 3.5 percent and raised its
inflation forecasts, saying that a weakening currency poses
price-gain risks. The peso has depreciated more than 5 percent
this year, and is the worst performer after the yen and the
Indian rupee among 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  President Benigno Aquino, who won control of Congress in
May elections, this week asked lawmakers to pass measures to
boost business competitiveness and improve governance to sustain
the nation’s expansion. Gross domestic product rose 7.8 percent
in the first quarter from a year earlier, the fastest growth
among 17 Asia-Pacific economies tracked by Bloomberg.  “Higher interest rates may come sooner than later as
inflation quickens and the Federal Reserve starts tapering
stimulus,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at
 BDO Unibank Inc. (BDO)  in Manila. “The central bank is slowly
preparing itself,” he said, adding that the BSP may raise
borrowing costs by 25 basis points in the first quarter of 2014.  Rating Review  The peso gained 0.1 percent to 43.31 per dollar, according
to Tullett Prebon Plc. The Philippine Stock Exchange Index fell
0.4 percent.  The central bank yesterday raised its price-gain forecasts
for this year and next, even as it predicted inflation will
remain within its 3 percent-to-5 percent target range. Inflation
quickened in June from May, with prices rising 2.8 percent from
a year earlier.  The Philippines won its first investment-grade scores from
Fitch Ratings and Standard & Poor’s earlier this year. Moody’s
Investors Service, which ranks the nation a step below,
yesterday said it is reviewing the rating for an upgrade.  “Hopefully, they would be convinced even more that the
positive overall performance and the reforms of the Philippine
economy are sustainable,” Tetangco said, adding that he expects
the Moody’s upgrade to come in the third or fourth quarter this
year. “The governance changes so far could cement economic
growth on a higher trajectory.”  Aquino is increasing spending to a record in 2013 and is
seeking more than $17 billion of investments in highways and
airports. Fujifilm Corp. and Sonion A/S began production at new
factories in the Philippines this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  