-- Philippine Bonds, Peso Rise as Moody’s Signals Possible Upgrade
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-07-26T05:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/philippine-bonds-peso-rise-as-moody-s-signals-possible-upgrade.html
Philippine seven-year sovereign
bonds headed for a fourth weekly gain and the peso climbed after
Moody’s Investors Service placed the nation’s credit rating on
review for a possible upgrade.  Representatives from Moody’s will visit the  Philippines 
next week and may join Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings in
awarding the nation investment-grade status as soon as this
quarter, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today. Deputy Governor Diwa
Guinigundo said yesterday that some of the funds Bangko Sentral
ng Pilipinas ordered banks to withdraw from its special-deposit
accounts by the end of July may be used to purchase bonds.  “The market is focused on the influx of investments from
the SDAs and from a probable rating upgrade from Moody’s,” said
Bunny Bernardo-Recto, vice president at Chinatrust Philippines
Commercial Bank Corp. in  Manila .  The yield on the 7.75 percent bonds due February 2020 fell
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.32 percent
from a week ago, the lowest level since June 7, according to a
midday fixing at Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp. It has
dropped 77 basis points in the last four weeks.  Philippine local-currency government notes are the best
performing in  Southeast Asia  this month, providing a return of
2.6 percent, compared with a 3.3 percent loss in  Indonesia ,
indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc show.  Upgrade Drivers  The Philippines long-term foreign and local-currency debt
are rated Ba1 by Moody’s, the highest junk level. S&P and Fitch
raised the nation to investment grade in the first half. The key
drivers for an upgrade would be robust economic growth, “stable
and favorable” government funding conditions, improving fiscal
and debt dynamics and political stability, according to a
statement from Moody’s yesterday.  Bangko Sentral instructed lenders to remove at least 30
percent of funds from individually managed accounts from the
SDAs by July 31, and all of such money by the end of November.  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 43.31 per dollar by the noon
trading break and was up by the same magnitude for the week,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, dropped 68 basis points from July 19 to 6.13 percent
and was 12 basis points higher today.  The central bank amended its 2013 inflation forecast to 3.3
percent, compared with a previous estimate of 3.1 percent,
Deputy Governor Guinigundo said yesterday,  Consumer prices rose 2.8 percent in June, compared with 2.6
percent in May. Tetangco said yesterday that July data will
probably be in the region of 2.2 percent to 3.1 percent.  “The market seems to have factored in the higher inflation
expectations by the central bank,” Chinatrust’s Bernardo-Recto
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  