-- Picanol Says $255 Million Tessenderlo Stake to Aid Growth
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-07-26T09:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/picanol-says-255-million-tessenderlo-stake-to-aid-growth.html
Picanol (PIC)  said the Belgian weaving-equipment maker’s 192.4 million-euro ($255 million) investment
in  Tessenderlo Chemie NV (TESB)  fits within a strategy of diversifying
to reduce reliance on the  textile industry .  Picanol had the cash available to purchase the French
state’s 27.6 percent holding in Tessenderlo, and talks were
completed late yesterday, Managing Director Luc Tack said in a
phone interview. The Ieper-based equipment manufacturer has no
plans at the moment to increase the stake further, he said.  The equipment manufacturer  agreed  to pay 22 euros a share,
or 8.1 percent more than yesterday’s closing price, for
Brussels-based Tessenderlo, a maker of water-treatment chemicals
and food ingredients. Picanol is looking at entering other
industries to become less depenent on the cyclical market of
weaving machines, where it’s the world’s biggest producer.  “Like it always goes in negotiations, we think we pay a
little too much and the seller thinks it’s not enough, but
finally in the late hours we were able to come to an
agreement,” Tack said.  Tessenderlo  jumped  as much as 5.5 percent to 21.47 euros
and was trading up 3.7 percent at 11:09 a.m. in Brussels. The
stock has declined 15 percent this year, valuing the company at
669.5 million euros. Picanol rose 1.7 percent to 21.46 euros.  Tessenderlo is under going a transformation under Chief
Executive Officer Frank Coenen to increase profit. It has  sold 
commodity plastic and compounds businesses to focus on higher-margin food ingredients and gelatin-based products.  Board Seats  A decision on what will happen to the three board seats
held by  France  has yet to be made, Tack said.  “After the closing of the deal, we’ll come to a conclusion
on this,” Tack said. Picanol’s investment will bring stability
to Tessenderlo as it pursues a growth strategy, he said.  The investment coincides with the planned sale of a
competing gelatin business by Dutch meat producer Vion Food
Group Ltd. The ingredients division may fetch about 1 billion
euros and initial bids were handed in this week. The asset has
drawn broad interest from private equity firms including PAI
Partners and CVC Capital Partners Ltd., according to people with
knowledge of the situation.  Vion is owned by NCB Ontwikkeling, which is closely
affiliated with the Dutch farming and gardening advocacy group
Zuidelijke Land-En Tuinbouworganisatie, according to the
company’s website.  Tack said his company’s investment in Tessenderlo isn’t
related to the Vion situation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  