-- Praktiker’s Max Bahr DIY Division Files for Insolvency
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-07-26T14:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/praktiker-s-max-bahr-do-it-yourself-chain-sucked-into-insolvency.html
Praktiker AG (PRA) ’s Max Bahr do-it-yourself stores filed for insolvency after suppliers lost their
insurance cover, joining its home-improvement retailing parent
company in bankruptcy proceedings.  Attorney Jens-Soeren Schroeder will be the insolvency
administrator for three Max Bahr units and Christopher Seagon
will oversee proceedings for a fourth, Hamburg’s higher regional
court said in a statement today. Seagon is also the
administrator for the Praktiker-branded businesses that filed
for  bankruptcy protection  in mid-July.  Founded in 1879 by Johann Jacob Heinrich Bahr, Max Bahr has
132 stores and 3,700 employees in Germany. Praktiker, which is
based in Kirkel, Germany, said earlier this month that Max Bahr
wouldn’t be affected by the insolvency. Praktiker said late
yesterday that because of a lack of insurance, a “steady supply
of goods to Max Bahr stores is no longer guaranteed.”  The filing “is negative for the company, but it doesn’t
necessarily mean that all Max Bahr stores will close,” said
Anna Patrice, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London . “It all
depends on the company’s majority investors now.”  The reduction in domestic competition will be positive for
retailers such as Hornbach Holding AG and OBI Group Holding SE,
Patrice said. Praktiker said on July 11 it filed for insolvency
after the disposal of a division collapsed. The retailer’s
international operations are unaffected, it reiterated
yesterday.  Record Lows  Praktiker slid as much as 18 percent to 11 euro cents and
were trading down 12 percent at 4:54 p.m. in  Frankfurt . The
stock, which went on the market at 14.50 euros a share in a 2005
 initial public offering , has been trading at record lows since
this month’s insolvency filing.  Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s biggest retailer, sold a 59.5 percent
stake in Praktiker in the IPO and divested its remaining holding
the following year. Praktiker’s current shareholders include
Donau Invest Beteiligungs GmbH, with just under 10 percent of
the  voting rights , and Maseltov Ltd. at 9.6 percent, according
to its website.  The insolvency filing is the biggest in Germany’s retail
industry since drugstore chain Schlecker went out of business
last year, according to Ralf Moldenhauer, a Frankfurt-based
partner at  Boston Consulting Group .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  