-- Public Has No Right to Know for 50 Years With Senate Redo: Taxes
-- B y   M a r c   H e l l e r   a n d   A a r o n   E .   L o r e n z o
-- 2013-07-26T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/public-has-no-right-to-know-for-50-years-with-senate-redo-taxes.html
Leaders of the tax-code rewrite in
Congress pledged to keep ideas submitted by lawmakers secret for
50 years, seeking to assuage concerns that leaks of comments may
jeopardize relationships with fundraisers or constituents.  Senate Finance Committee staff promised that submissions on
which tax breaks to keep or jettison -- which are due today --
will be marked as confidential and won’t be released until Dec.
31, 2064, according to a July 19 memo to Senate tax aides
obtained by Bloomberg BNA.  Congress is working on the biggest rewrite of the tax code
since 1986, and big breaks may be on the chopping block. Leaders
say they want to start by throwing out all the deductions and
making people argue to get them back in. Assuring lawmakers of
anonymity will help attract more participation, said Dean Zerbe,
a former tax counsel to the committee.  “The intent is to let members be candid,” said Zerbe, now
national managing director at Alliantgroup. Keeping many
discussions behind closed doors while crafting the 2001 and 2003
tax cuts helped then, he said.  The secrecy contrasts with most records. Senate Historian
Don Ritchie said most files automatically open after 20 years,
and some can be sealed for 50 years to protect personal privacy,
national security, or the confidentiality of a congressional
investigation. The records of Senator Joe McCarthy’s secret
hearings were opened in 2003, 50 years after they were held, he
said. A committee chairman can interpret “investigation” to
cover the examination of legislation, he said.  Accountability Questioned  Since the decision to start from zero last month, there has
been a lobbying frenzy from corporations and interest groups.
Companies are weighing in on deductions for specific industries
like drilling and broad items including international taxation.
Backers of breaks for retirement savings and charitable
contributions are pressing to keep them.  The memo details measures the committee will use to protect
the confidentiality of the submissions. Some senators reportedly
have been reluctant to answer the call for ideas because of
concern they could become public -- even though committee
Chairman Max Baucus has vowed not to release them.  The Montana Democrat told reporters July 24 that the lockup
would help draw additional letters. Sean Neary, a spokesman for
the committee, told BNA that 50 years of confidentiality is
“standard operating procedure.”  “It’s utterly out of keeping with the desire of the Senate
and House to serve the public,” said Charles Tiefer, a former
associate Senate counsel who now teaches at the University of
Baltimore Law School. “It makes you wonder what they’re trying
to hide” and is “particularly out of keeping with the effort
reflected in the Thomas.gov database to provide information on a
real-time basis to the public” about legislation, he said.  Insulated Members  The Thomas website of the Library of Congress provides
access to text of pending legislation and summaries as well as
records of past congressional legislative deliberations.  “While the 50 year seal is a great symbol for the excessive
congressional secrecy, it’s more controversial to me that the
related committees are sending a message to the rest of
Congress: Our work on taxes will be irrelevant to your
individual campaigns,” said Sunlight Foundation Policy Director
John Wonderlich. “The committees are seeking to insulate
members from pressure of any kind: from donors, constituents,
and ultimately, voters.”  With the actual submissions off-limits to the public,
Baucus hasn’t said how much information about them the committee
may share publicly, such as the number of proposals or a summary
of topics covered. “We’ll have to see what we get” before
deciding how much information to share, Neary said.  Blank Slate  The call for submissions is part of a “blank slate”
approach to tax deductions, credits and other breaks by Baucus
and ranking member Senator Orrin Hatch, a Utah Republican. The
senators have said they will begin tax reform deliberations by
wiping the tax code clean of such provisions, asking senators to
recommend which should ultimately be retained.  Hatch told reporters July 23 that the response to the call
for submissions has been “mixed,” though he added the next day
that the 50-year lockup would help convince some concerned about
confidentiality to participate. Baucus told reporters that some
senators prefer to simply speak with him, although he said he
would prefer submissions in writing.  Among rank-and-file members of the committee, comments were
fixed. Richard Burr, a Republican from North Carolina, told BNA
that he continues to plan to communicate personally rather than
submit anything in writing, regardless of the confidentiality
promise. Johnny Isakson, a Georgia Republican who said he has
shared his opinions with committee leaders, said the letter
solicitation didn’t bother him as much as others.  10 People  According to the memo, submissions will be copied digitally
and marked with a code unique to the majority and minority
staffs. One paper copy each will be made for minority and
majority staff, to be kept in a locked safe.  Six committee staff members -- three from the majority, and
three from the minority -- will be authorized to view them, and
four more will be allowed to handle them for administrative
purposes, the memo said.  The confidential documents will be archived separately from
legislative records. Information in them may be made public
during the legislative process only if modified to prevent
identifying their source.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net  