-- TransCanada Profit Rises as Bruce Nuclear Units Return
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-07-26T21:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/transcanada-profit-rises-as-bruce-nuclear-units-return.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , the company
proposing to build the Keystone XL oil pipeline, said second-quarter profit increased 34 percent as nuclear reactors in
Ontario returned to service and power prices in  Alberta  rose.  Net income rose to C$365 million ($355 million), or 52
cents a share, from C$272 million, or 39 cents, a year earlier,
the Calgary-based company said in a statement today. Excluding a
tax adjustment and hedging loss, per-share profit missed by 1
cent the 52-cent average of 13  analysts’ estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 8.8 percent to C$2.01 billion.  TransCanada is supplying more electricity from Bruce Power,
the world’s largest operating nuclear plant, with all eight
units at the Ontario site operating for the first time in two
decades. The company got about 34 percent of  revenue  from its
energy business last year and the rest from transporting natural
gas and oil on its 57,000-kilometer (35,000-mile) pipeline
network.  The results were “roughly in line with the consensus
estimate,” Pierre Lacroix, an analyst at Desjardins Securities
Inc. in  Montreal , wrote in a note to clients today. “We expect
that investors will continue to focus on the major upcoming
regulatory decision related to Keystone XL, which could be a
positive catalyst for the shares, if approved as expected.”  TransCanada’s target to start operating the Keystone XL
pipeline from Alberta’s oil sands to  Gulf Coast  refineries in
the second half of 2015 will be “difficult” to meet,  Russ Girling , chief executive officer of the company, said in a July
18 interview. The timing of a U.S. decision for a necessary
permit may delay the line’s construction, he said.  Keystone Leg  The company gave no revised schedule or cost estimate for
the $5.3 billion project today.  The lower leg of the line from Cushing,  Oklahoma , to the
Gulf Coast, which TransCanada started building earlier because
it didn’t require a presidential permit, is 85 percent complete
and on track to start transporting crude at the end of this
year, the company said. A lateral pipeline to Houston is
forecast to be online in 2014.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization from the company’s energy division, which includes
power generation as well as gas storage, increased 94 percent to
C$330 million from C$170 million.  TransCanada, which has nine buy and eight hold
recommendations from  analysts , climbed 2 cents to C$46.43 at the
close in Toronto. The shares have declined 1.3 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  