-- Renault Posts Unexpected Profit Growth on Labor Cutbacks
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-07-26T07:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/renault-posts-unexpected-profit-growth-on-labor-cost-cuts.html
Renault SA (RNO) ,  France ’s second-biggest
carmaker, reported unexpected growth in first-half profit as
labor-cost reductions and higher vehicle prices more than offset
slumping sales in a shrinking European auto market.  Earnings before interest, taxes and one-time items, which
the automaker calls operating margin, climbed 15 percent to 583
million euros ($774 million) from 508 million euros a year
earlier, the Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based company said
today in a statement. Earnings were projected to fall to 397
million euro, according to the average of seven analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Renault reached a deal with unions in March to cut its
French workforce 17 percent and freeze wages in exchange for not
closing domestic plants for three years. Renault is pushing for
more sales outside  Europe  to reduce reliance on its home region.
Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  reiterated operating-profit
and free cash-flow targets today for the car division this year.  “After the better-than-expected first-half results,
guidance looks achievable,” Sascha Gommel, a Frankfurt-based
analyst at Commerzbank AG, said today by e-mail. “We expect a
positive share-price reaction today.”  Renault  jumped  as much as 5.4 percent to 62.88 euros, the
highest intraday price since May 20, and was trading up 2.9
percent at 9:25 a.m. in Paris. The stock has gained 51 percent
this year, valuing the company at 18.2 billion euros.  Currency Effects  Currency effects reduced the operating margin by 242
million euros, while higher prices for vehicles provided a 261
million-euro boost, Renault said in an online presentation. The
operating margin at the carmaking business jumped 82 percent to
211 million euros, with profit as a proportion of sales rising
0.5 percentage point to 1.1 percent of sales. On a group level,
earnings widened 0.4 points to 2.9 percent of sales.  The manufacturer said in February that it was targeting a
“positive” operating margin and free cash flow for the
automotive operations for this year. Renault is “on track to
achieve the objectives we announced for 2013,” Ghosn said in
today’s statement.  Renault, Turin, Italy-based  Fiat SpA (F)  and Paris-based  PSA
Peugeot Citroen (UG)  have been hit harder by Europe’s recession than
their German counterparts because the three automakers are more
reliant on the French, Spanish and Italian markets, which have
plunged in recent years.  Shrinking Market  First-half auto deliveries across Europe tumbled 6.7
percent from a year earlier to 6.44 million vehicles, the lowest
six-month number since 1993, according to Brussels-based
 European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association .  The European car market is set to shrink for a sixth
consecutive year in 2013, and Ghosn predicted earlier this month
that the declines will continue through 2015 as unemployment
saps consumer demand. Industrywide sales in the region are
likely to fall in the second half of 2013, Chief Operating
Officer  Carlos Tavares  told analysts today on a conference call.
There is also a risk of slowing demand growth in  emerging
markets , he said.  The automaker is sticking with car-market forecasts of 2
percent growth worldwide, with the global increase held back by
a 5 percent decline across Europe, including an 8 percent drop
in France, Chief Financial Officer Dominique Thormann said today
at a press conference in Boulogne-Billancourt.  Wage Freeze  The labor agreement enables Renault to eliminate 7,500 jobs
by 2016 through attrition. Labor leaders also agreed on a wage
freeze this year and to increase the average number of weekly
working hours to 35 from 32. The company targets annual savings
from the cuts of 500 million euros, Gerard Leclercq, head of
Renault’s French operations, said in January.  The first-half operating loss including special items was
249 million euros compared with profit of 545 million euros a
year earlier. One-time costs of 832 million euros included a
provision of 512 million euros for the automaker’s business in
 Iran . Net income dropped 95 percent to 39 million euros. Revenue
declined 0.9 percent to 20.4 billion euros.  The automotive unit had negative free  cash flow  of 31
million euros. The division had a net cash position of 732
million euros at the end of the period.  Renault is updating its model line in an effort to attract
customers. Vehicles introduced in the last year include
Renault’s first compact crossover, the Captur; new versions of
the Renault Clio and Dacia Sandero hatchbacks and Dacia Logan
sedan and wagon.  Entry-level models accounted for 40 percent of Renault’s
group deliveries in the first half, and that range of vehicles
gives the company a “global advantage,” Jerome Stoll, head of
group sales, told journalists this month. Dacia has reached a
target market share in Europe of 2 percent, and the division
will continue to post sales gains, he said.  The manufacturer, which owns 43 percent of Yokohama, Japan-based  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , is aiming for approval from Chinese
authorities this year for a joint venture with Dongfeng Motor
Group Co., the country’s third-largest carmaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  