-- ReneSola to Sell Solar Panels to South America’s Biggest Project
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-07-26T17:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/renesola-to-sell-solar-panels-to-south-america-s-biggest-project.html
ReneSola Ltd. (SOL)  agreed to sell about
29 megawatts of photovoltaic panels to Chilean developer Selray
Energias Ltd. to expand the La Huayca project into  South
America ’s biggest solar power provider.  ReneSola, based in Jiashan, China, agreed two months ago to
furnish the equipment, Humberto Romero, general manager of
Selray Energias, said in a July 24 phone interview. Selray
Energias will sign a contract on Aug. 5 with the International
Finance Corp. to receive the first tranche of $46.9 million of
 debt  to buy the equipment, he said.  The rise of mining in Chile’s desert north is leading solar
developers to build projects to supply the increased demand for
energy, said Maria Gabriela da Rocha Oliveira, a Sao Paulo-based
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The technology is also
gaining traction in  Ecuador ,  Peru , Brazil and Mexico as panel
prices fall.  Solar energy “is the next big thing for Chile,” she said
in a phone interview today. “Last year, for the first time,
investment in solar energy in  Latin America  exceeded investment
in biofuels. Four years ago renewable-energy investment in the
region was basically all biofuels.”  A spokesman for ReneSola had no immediate comment on the
deal.  Selray plans to spend $67 million expanding its existing
1.4-megawatt La Huayca project in the northern Atacama Desert to
30.5 megawatts by April.  Spot Prices  The project will continue selling energy on the  spot market 
to Chile’s northern grid, Romero said. The average spot price in
the region is expected to rise to $120 a megawatt-hour in the
next couple of years from an average of $84 last year as more
mines come online, he said.  Selray is a joint venture between German solar developer
Saferay GmbH and local engineering firm Seltec Ltda., according
to an IFC statement. Saferay is also seeking permits to build a
$300 million photovoltaic-power plant in the Atacama desert.  Central and South America have 114 megawatts of solar
capacity online, while Germany has about 3,100 megawatts
operating, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  