-- RusPetro Jumps Most Since April on Tax Relief on Tight Oil
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-07-26T10:34:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/ruspetro-jumps-most-since-april-on-tax-relief-on-tight-oil.html
RusPetro Plc (RPO) , a Russian oil
producer, jumped the most in almost four months in London
trading after saying 97 percent of its oil output could be
eligible for tax relief.  The shares rose by as much as 23 percent after the company
said a “substantial” reduction in the Russian Mineral
Extraction Tax applicable to tight oil will probably be applied
to production from September. RusPetro estimates the  tax rate 
will be lowered by 80 percent for about 74 percent of the
company’s Jurassic reserves and 97 percent of its current crude
production.  President  Vladimir Putin  is pushing ahead with measures to
tap  Russia ’s tight oil and offshore resources as core Soviet-legacy Siberian deposits decline. The Russian leader signed off
on laws offering tax discounts to stimulate hard-to-recover
resources on July 23, according to a government website.  “This is a potential gamechanger for RusPetro,” Chief
Executive Officer  Tom Reed  said from Moscow today. “This isn’t
just a field or two, it’s for almost everything we’ve got.”  If the tax relief had been in place for first-quarter
output, it would have resulted in an almost 400 percent increase
in earnings per barrel of production, the company said today in
a statement.  The stock is 59 percent lower than at the start of the year
after the company missed an output target and concern grew over
the availability of funds for development and debt servicing.  “RusPetro will now have more time to finance and ramp up the
development of its 1.8 billion barrels of proven and probable
reserves,” Reed said.  RusPetro said average oil and condensate production rose 38
percent in the first half to 5,455 barrels a day from the year-earlier period.  “I’ve never had any doubt about the oil, every well we
drilled encountered oil,” Reed said. “The challenge we
encountered in 2012 was the economics and that just got a whole
lot better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  