-- Russia Sees Risks Emerging as Foreigners Amass State Debt
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-07-26T10:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/russia-sees-risks-emerging-as-foreigners-amass-state-debt.html
Russia ’s financial industry faces
risks from surging demand for domestic ruble bonds as investors
plow into the securities, competing with local banks for the
assets used as refinancing collateral, the central bank said.  Non-resident holdings of ruble-denominated sovereign notes,
known as OFZs, are now approaching the emerging-market average
of 30 percent, compared with 21 percent on Feb. 1 and 7 percent
on July 1, 2012, the Moscow-based regulator said in a report
today. Bank Rossii and the Finance Ministry plan to start
monitoring foreign ownership of OFZs to reduce risks.  “We don’t consider the situation to be critical at this
point, or that it requires any immediate action from the central
bank or  Finance Ministry ,” Vladimir Chistyukhin, head of the
regulator’s financial stability department, told reporters in
Moscow today. “At the same time, we do see potential risks.”  The report highlights the downside of Russia’s move this
year to allow foreign investors to buy OFZs through systems run
by Euroclear Bank SA and Clearstream International SA. Russia’s
state  debt market  “collapsed” in 1997 and 1998 because of the
dominance of foreign investors and the government’s weak
financial position, according to the report.  The added demand has sent yields tumbling for the state and
companies, while leaving Russia more exposed to fluctuations in
global financial markets, according to the central bank. The
country defaulted on $40 billion of domestic debt in 1998.  Negative Return  Yields on Russia’s 10-year debt fell to 6.48 percent on May
7, the lowest since February 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield on OFZs due January 2023 retreated for the
first time this week, dropping four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 7.31 percent as of 2:04 p.m. in Moscow.  “The drop in  interest rates  on the sovereign debt market
was followed by a correction in yields for corporate bonds,”
the central bank said. “In many instances, borrowing costs for
sub-investment grade issuers have fallen below the rates on
retail deposits in the biggest banks. That shows a possible
underestimation of the risks of investing in bonds.”  The share of foreign OFZ ownership may rise to 50 percent,
according to preliminary estimates, Chistyukhin said. A level of
more than 40 percent would prompt discussions with the Finance
Ministry on possible steps, he said.  Bernanke Effect  Comments by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  that
the U.S. central bank plans to taper its bond buying program may
“at least stabilize” the share of non-residents on the OFZ
market, Sergei Moiseev, deputy head of the stability department,
said at the press conference.  “If some sovereign fund or private investment fund even
wanted to open a position of 1 percent or 2 percent for Russia,
they could simply consume our entire market,” Moiseev said.
“So no matter what Bernanke says, I think that reason -- the
small size of our market -- means the share of non-residents
will grow.”  After adjusting for inflation, one-year OFZs yielded a
negative 1.5 percent at the end of the first quarter, while
holders of 10-year notes were left with essentially no real
return, according to the report.  “The current level of nominal yields is acceptable for
non-residents, who have low funding costs,” the central bank
said. “For residents, however, the negative real ruble rates
mean, essentially, subsidizing the  federal budget .”  Risk Appetite  A deterioration in risk perception because of events in the
euro area threatens to drive up bond yields on OFZs, saddling
banks with losses, according to the report.  That may also spur “speculative pressure in the  currency
market ” as non-residents would need to convert their rubles
from the sale of OFZs back into foreign currency, the bank said.  Still, Russia is benefiting from a diversification of the
investor base, the central bank said. Sovereign funds from
Europe and  Asia  have become major OFZ holders since the market
was opened.  The U.K. accounted for 40.4 percent of OFZ ownership
through Euroclear as of April 1, followed by 26.6 percent in the
U.S., 8.5 percent in Luxembourg and 6.3 percent in  Singapore ,
according to the report.  As of May 2013, the banking industry had “an adequate
store of unused potential for refinancing to handle potential
liquidity shocks,” according to the report.  Russia’s 30 biggest banks plus the 10 other lenders most
active on the money market had about 1.1 trillion rubles ($34
billion) in unused market assets and more than 2 trillion rubles
in non-marketable assets and guarantees.  “As such, at present there aren’t any preconditions for
the formation of a systemic liquidity deficit, and liquidity
risks for the largest lenders are insignificant,” the central
bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  