-- S&P 500 Snaps 4-Week Gain Amid Earnings, Stimulus Concern
-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-07-26T22:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/s-p-500-snaps-4-week-gain-amid-earnings-stimulus-concern.html
The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (VIX) 
snapped a four-week advance as investors weighed corporate
earnings amid speculation that the  Federal Reserve  may reduce
its asset purchases this year.  Caterpillar Inc. fell 4.2 percent after quarterly profit
missed estimates and it cut its annual earnings forecast.
McDonald’s Corp. tumbled 2.2 percent after saying economic
weakness would hurt results for the rest of the year.
Homebuilders dropped 8.8 percent as a group as  PulteGroup (PHM)  Inc.
and D.R. Horton Inc. lost more than 12 percent.  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
 surged  31 percent as mobile advertising helped profit.  The  S&P 500  dropped less than 0.1 percent to 1,691.65, its
first weekly decline since June 21. The benchmark index reached
a record on July 22 and climbed within 3 points of 1,700 for
three straight days before retreating. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average (INDU)  added 15.09 points, or 0.1 percent, to 15,558.83.  “The market is trying to figure out where we have some
safety and where we have top-line and bottom-line growth,”
Samuel Lieber, the Purchase, New York-based chief executive
officer at Alpine Woods Capital Investors, said in a telephone
interview. His firm oversees $4.8 billion. “The underlying
trend is being questioned.”  The Fed has said economic data will determine the timing
and pace of any reduction in its $85 billion in monthly asset
purchases. A gauge of manufacturing in the mid-Atlantic region
unexpectedly fell, while orders for durable goods rose more than
forecast in June and  consumer confidence  unexpectedly increased
in July to the highest level in six years.  Bull Market  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  climbed 150 percent since March 2009 as the
U.S. bull market has entered its fifth year, driven by better-than-estimated corporate earnings and three rounds of bond
purchases by the U.S. central bank. The stock gauge is heading
for a 5.3 percent advance this month, the most since October
2011. The gauge fell in June, after seven successive months of
gains, as Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on May 21 the Fed could
reduce its bond purchases as early as September.  Equity valuations have climbed 16 percent this year, with
the S&P 500  trading  at 16.1 times reported operating earnings,
close to the highest level since May 2010, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
VIX, gained 1.4 percent to 12.72 during the week. The equity
volatility gauge, which moves in the opposite direction as the
S&P 500 about 80 percent of the time, is down 29 percent for the
year.  More Clues  The coming week will offer more clues to the state of the
economy. In addition to earnings reports will be data on U.S.
gross domestic product and the monthly labor report, as well as
monetary policy announcements by the Fed and the  European
Central Bank .  “The Fed is going to be meeting and there is speculation
that maybe they will start to reduce their bond purchases in
September,”  Peter Jankovskis , co-chief investment officer who
helps manage $3.6 billion at Oakbrook Investments LLC, said via
phone from Lisle, Illinois. “The reports that we have had and
any statements they make are going to be the big lead-in to that
story. The big driver really continues to be the employment
statistics.”  Exxon Mobil Corp. and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  will be among
134 S&P 500 companies releasing results in the coming week. Of
the 260 companies in the benchmark equity index that have posted
 quarterly results  so far, 73 percent have exceeded analysts’
 estimates  for profit and 57 percent have topped sales
projections, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Industrials lost 1 percent as a group for the week, the
 most among  10 industries in the S&P 500, followed by a 0.8
percent drop among energy producers.  Slower Demand  Caterpillar (CAT)  slid 4.2 percent to $82.06 for the steepest
loss in the Dow. Earnings for the world’s largest maker of
mining and construction machinery trailed analysts’  estimates 
for a third straight quarter and cut its forecast as mining-equipment sales declined on slower commodity demand from
 emerging markets .  McDonald’s fell 2.2 percent, the  second-most  in the Dow, to
$98.03. The world’s largest restaurant chain posted second-quarter profit and revenue that fell short of analysts’
forecasts and said sales for the rest of 2013 would be hurt by
economic weakness.  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  sank 27 percent to $47.20 for the biggest
retreat in the S&P 500 as the online travel agency missed sales
and profit estimates amid increased competition. Netflix Inc.
slumped 6.9 percent to $246.31 on slower-than-estimated
subscriber gains.  Homebuilders Tumble  An index of homebuilders fell 8.8 percent as PulteGroup and
D.R. Horton reported lower-than-forecast orders, adding to
concerns that higher mortgage rates will hamper the nation’s
housing recovery. PulteGroup plunged 16 percent to $16.36 for
its biggest weekly decline in almost two years. D.R. Horton sank
12 percent to $19.33.  Health-care stocks and technology companies added at least
0.8 percent for the biggest gains of the week.  Facebook jumped 31 percent, its biggest weekly advance, to
$34.01. The operator of the world’s most popular social-networking service reported sales and profit that beat
estimates. Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg ’s decision
last year to bet big on mobile software is paying off, with
sales of ads on wireless devices now on track to surpass revenue
from desktop computers.  Apple Jumps  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  rose 3.8 percent to $440.99. The world’s most
valuable technology company, which hasn’t refreshed its iPhone
and iPad since last year, managed to exceed analysts’ earnings
projections, even as profit declined from a year earlier and
sales were largely flat.  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  soared 13 percent to $10.96. The
second-biggest maker of heart-rhythm devices reported profit
that beat analysts’ estimates and raised its forecast amid signs
that demand for defibrillators and stents is starting to
stabilize.  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  rose 6.6 percent to a record $73.36 after
profits topped forecasts. Chief Executive Officer  Howard
Schultz ’s push into food is starting to pay off, driving traffic
into U.S. stores and lifting sales and profit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  