-- S&P Wants Government Documents About Other Investigations
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-07-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/s-p-wants-government-documents-about-other-investigations.html
McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) ’s
 Standard & Poor’s , preparing its defense to the fraud lawsuit by
the U.S. Justice Department, will ask the government for
information about investigations of other credit raters.  The Justice Department and S&P yesterday filed a joint
report ahead of a hearing July 29 in federal court in Santa Ana,
 California . The report lays out the kind of evidence each side
will seek from the other in preparation for a trial of the
government’s claims that S&P lied to investors about its ratings
being independent and free of conflicts of interest.  S&P wants the government to provide it with documents about
its investigation of S&P and others, about the government’s
decision to file the lawsuit, and information the government
received about residential mortgage-backed securities and
collateralized-debt obligations in investigations of others,
including other credit rating providers.  The parties “anticipate that S&P’s document discovery in
these areas will generate objections from the government,”
according to the filing.  The  Justice Department  will initially seek evidence related
to whether particular S&P-rated residential mortgage-backed
securities and CDOs were affected by the alleged fraud and the
losses to financial institutions from these particular
securities, according to the filing.  $5 Billion  The Justice Department seeks as much as $5 billion in civil
penalties from New York-based S&P, based on losses federally
insured financial institutions incurred from investments in
mortgage-backed securities and CDOs that included these
securities, which had received investment-grade credit ratings
from S&P.  U.S. District Judge  David Carter  on July 16 denied S&P’s
request to throw out the government’s complaint without ruling
on the merits of the allegations. The Justice Department in its
complaint met the legal standards to proceed with its fraud
claims, the judge said.  Edward Sweeney , a spokesman for S&P, and Thom Mrozek, a
spokesman for U.S. Attorney Andre Birotte Jr. in  Los Angeles ,
declined to comment on the filing.  The case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill Cos., 13-cv-00779, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal courthouse at +1-   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 