-- SAC Capital Timeline: Insider Scheme Started in 1999
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-07-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/sac-capital-timeline-insider-scheme-started-in-1999.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP, the $14
billion hedge fund founded by  Steven A. Cohen , was a “veritable
magnet for market cheaters,” Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said yesterday after indicting the firm on four counts
of securities fraud and one count of  wire fraud .  The scheme, which involved more than 20 companies and went
back as far as 1999, helped reap hundreds of millions of dollars
in illicit profits, the U.S. said. Cohen founded the  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based firm in 1992. The U.S. described separate
 insider trading  schemes by at least eight former SAC fund
managers and analysts. Cohen hasn’t been charged. Here is a
timeline of the case:  July 23: Richard Lee, a former SAC portfolio manager who worked
at the firm until March 2013, secretly pleaded guilty to insider
trading charges, two days before Bharara announced the
indictment of SAC. His lawyer said he’s cooperating with the
U.S.  July 19: The SEC accused Cohen of failing to supervise former
health-care portfolio manager Mathew Martoma and Michael Steinberg, a technology fund manager at SAC’s Sigma Capital
Management unit. The SEC said Cohen received “highly
suspicious” information that should have caused any reasonable
hedge-fund manager to investigate the basis for trades made by
the two managers. While the agency stopped short of accusing
Cohen of insider trading, regulators alleged that in late August
2008, Cohen traded on nonpublic information on  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,
selling off his entire position, more than $11 million, minutes
after receiving an advance tip from former SAC analyst, Jon Horvath, that the computer maker would announce disappointing
quarterly earnings.  March 29: Steinberg was charged with earning more than $1.4
million based on illicit tips provided by Horvath. Steinberg,
who has pleaded not guilty, is the longest-serving SAC employee
to be charged in the probe. He is scheduled to go to trial Nov.
18 in Manhattan.  March 15: SAC agreed to pay a record $616 million to settle
SEC’s charges regarding Martoma’s and Steinberg’s trades.  Jan. 9: Wesley Wang, a former analyst for Sigma Capital who
cooperated with the government’s investigation of insider
trading, was sentenced to two years’ probation. He pleaded
guilty on July 13, 2012, to two counts of conspiracy to commit
securities fraud.  Dec. 17, 2012: Level Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson, who left SAC to start a hedge fund, and former
Diamondback Capital Management LLC portfolio manager  Todd Newman 
were convicted in an insider-trading scheme that reaped more
than $72 million. Horvath was charged with being part of the
insider-trading scheme. Both Chiasson and Newman have been
sentenced to prison and are free pending their appeal.  Nov. 20, 2012: Martoma was charged with helping SAC get hundreds
of millions of dollars in illegal profit on tips provided by a
doctor about a clinical trial involving an Alzheimer drug being
developed by Wyeth LLC and Elan Corp. Martoma, who has pleaded
not guilty, is scheduled to go to trial in Manhattan on Nov. 4.  Sept. 28, 2012: Horvath, a former technology analyst at SAC’s
Sigma Capital, pleaded guilty to funneling inside information to
his portfolio manager and agreed to cooperate with the U.S. He
will testify for the government against Steinberg, prosecutors
said.  July 29, 2011: Donald Longueuil, a former SAC Capital portfolio
manager, was sentenced to 30 months for his role in an insider
trading scheme that the U.S. said included his friend, former
SAC portfolio manager Noah Freeman.  April 28, 2011: Former SAC analyst Jonathan Hollander agreed to
settle SEC allegations that he traded on inside information
about a pending takeover of the Albertsons LLC grocery chain.  Feb. 7, 2011: Former SAC fund manager Noah Freeman secretly
pleaded guilty to insider trading and  securities fraud  and
agreed to cooperate with the U.S., a day before Bharara’s office
announced charges in his case. In December 2010, Freeman told
FBI agents in  New York  that it was “understood” by SAC
portfolio managers “that providing Cohen with your best trading
ideas involved providing Cohen with inside information.”  Oct. 13, 2009: Former SAC fund manager Richard Choo Beng Lee,
who later founded Spherix Capital, secretly pleaded guilty to
conspiracy to commit securities fraud and wire fraud and a
second count of securities fraud tied to the probe of Galleon
Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. His plea was disclosed the
next month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in  Manhattan  federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 