-- San Diego Mayor Says He’ll Seek Therapy Amid Sex Scandal
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-07-26T20:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/san-diego-mayor-says-he-ll-seek-therapy-amid-sex-scandal.html
San Diego  Mayor Bob Filner said
he’ll seek therapy amid allegations he sexually harassed women,
including a retired Navy rear admiral, a state university dean
and his spokeswoman.  The 70-year-old Filner, elected to 10 terms in Congress,
took office in December as the first Democrat in 20 years to
lead America’s eighth-largest city. The mayor, who has been
under fire since the accusations became public July 11, said
he’ll enter a behavioral counseling clinic Aug. 5 for two weeks.  “My failure to respect women, and the intimidating contact
is inexcusable,” Filner said in a news briefing at  city hall .
“I apologize to the people of San Diego. And most of all, I
apologize to the women that I have offended.”  The San Diego scandal unfolded as another prominent
Democrat, disgraced congressman Anthony Weiner, resisted calls
to quit his campaign for mayor of  New York , following
revelations that he sent lewd messages to women over the
Internet even after resigning from  House of Representatives  over
similar behavior.  Filner said he’ll continue to run the city of 1.3 million
people, receiving daily briefings from his staff, while at the
clinic full-time. The  city charter  has no provision for the
mayor to hand over his duties to someone else unless the office
is vacated. In that case, the city council is responsible until
a special election.  On July 11, three former Filner supporters, including ex-Councilwoman Donna Frye, who worked for the mayor earlier this
year, held a news briefing to call for his resignation, citing
sexual harassment without giving details. Filner responded with
a public apology.  Mayor ‘Embarrassed’  “I am embarrassed to admit that I have failed to respect
the women who work for me and with me,” he said.  On July 22, the mayor’s former communications director,
Irene McCormack Jackson, 57, filed suit asserting that the
divorced Filner had held her in a headlock and suggested that
she not wear panties to work. Filner denied wrongdoing.  Yesterday, four more accusers came forward in a KPBS-TV
 interview , telling the San Diego station they had received
unwanted sexual advances.  One of those women was Veronica Froman, a former admiral
who served as the city’s chief operating officer under Filner’s
predecessor, Mayor Jerry Sanders. Another was Joyce Gattas, the
dean of the College of Professional Studies and Fine Arts at  San
Diego State University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net 
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  