-- Scottish Equity May Channel $108 Million Into U.K. Clean Energy
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-07-26T11:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/scottish-equity-may-channel-108-million-into-u-k-clean-energy.html
Scottish Equity Partners LLP, a U.K.
venture capital company, may invest as much as 70 million pounds
($107.8 million) from its current fund in British clean energy
businesses as it sees the economy starting to pick-up.  The money, from its 200 million-pound fund, will likely be
channeled into four to six clean energy companies, Gary Le Sueur, a partner for London-based Scottish Equity, said in an
interview in the capital. He said he’s interested in energy
efficiency, low-power lighting and smart-grid businesses.  “Energy efficiency makes sense from a commercial, economic
and environmental perspective,” Le Sueur said. “You can build
a profitable business around it. And because of that, investors
like Scottish Equity should be able to generate a good return.
We’re just at the beginning of the journey greening-up the
housing and commercial building stock in the U.K. There is a
long way to go.”  Government-mandated efficiency measures such as low-power
lighting and insulation will help to lower bills by curbing
energy use and waste from buildings. Buildings account for about
43 percent of the U.K.’s greenhouse gas emissions, according to
the government. The government is aiming to cut emissions by 80
percent by 2050.  The British economy is “picking up,” and the availability
of debt funding is improving, said the partner. The fund is “on
the lookout” for opportunities in clean energy and efficiency,
though it generally avoids pure renewable power technology
companies, such as wind developers, because they are “very
capital intensive,” Le Sueur said.  Scottish Equity also has a 95 million pound Environmental
Energies Fund with SSE Plc. It is invested in nine companies
including Aquamarine Power Ltd., a wave technology developer;
Solar Century Holdings Ltd., a sun-power business; and Green
Highland Renewables Ltd., a small-hydropower company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  