-- SEC Fraud Probes Said to Suffer If E-Mails Kept Private
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-07-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/sec-fraud-probes-said-to-suffer-if-e-mails-kept-private.html
There’s a tie that binds the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission’s separate probes of SAC
Capital Advisors LP founder  Steven A. Cohen  and Fabrice Tourre,
the former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. vice president.  It’s old e-mails, which feature prominently as evidence in
SEC enforcement actions.  How the agency obtains e-mails has become the subject of a
Washington debate, pitting Wall Street’s top regulator against
privacy advocates and Internet companies, which say the
information they store should be as secure from government
seizure as documents in a desk drawer.  The SEC is fighting legislation that would trim government
access to personal and corporate e-mail kept for customers by
third-party providers, such as Amazon.com Inc. and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)   Bipartisan legislation requiring agencies to get warrants
to access e-mails could have “a significant negative impact”
on enforcement efforts, SEC Chairman Mary Jo White said in an
April letter to Congress. The SEC, a civil regulatory agency,
doesn’t have authority to obtain warrants.  “I think there’s critical mass to get this legislation
through,” Kevin Richards, senior vice president for federal
government affairs at TechAmerica, a Washington-based trade
group with members including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Hewlett-Packard
Co. and International Business Machines Corp., said in an
interview.  ‘Silly E-Mail’  The SEC has “often” asked Internet service providers for
e-mails “because persons who violate the law frequently do not
retain copies of incriminating communications,” White said in
her letter to Senator  Patrick Leahy , the Vermont Democrat who is
chairman of the Judiciary Committee and a sponsor of the bill.
The legislation awaits a vote by the full Senate; a similar bill
is being considered in the House.  SEC spokesman  Kevin Callahan  declined to comment on whether
the agency used this method to obtain emails used in the SAC
Capital or Tourre cases.  E-mails have taken starring roles in both cases.  In Tourre’s trial yesterday, SEC attorneys asked him about
one 2007 e-mail in which he dubbed himself “the fabulous Fab”
who forged “complex, highly levered, exotic trades.”  “This is a silly, romantic e-mail I sent late at night at
a moment of market stress,” Tourre said.  When it accused Cohen last week of failing to prevent
 insider trading , the SEC cited a 2008 e-mail he received as a
supposed warning sign that his employees may be making illegal
trades. Cohen’s lawyers said he never read the e-mail.  Harm Investigations  Reduced access to e-mails could harm some investigations,
Steve Crimmins, a former SEC trial attorney who is now a partner
at law firm K&L Gates LLP in  Washington , said in an interview.  “In dealing with large corporations which have responsibly
maintained e-mail communications, the SEC will be able to get
all the e-mail it needs,” Crimmins said. “But in cases with
less responsible entities or investigations just involving
individuals, the SEC will be severely hampered in getting the
evidence it needs to bring a case.”  The SEC has authority to issue administrative subpoenas,
which require the recipient to hand over all relevant documents.
However, many SEC probes are covert, so investigators subpoena
information from third parties, such as trading records from a
brokerage or e-mails from a third-party  Internet service
provider , without tipping off the subject.  1986 Law  The Senate measure would update a 1986 law by extending its
warrant requirement for recent e-mails to those older than 180
days, which weren’t shielded when the statute was written.  “The bill as currently constituted could have a
significant negative impact” on enforcement efforts, White
said. She proposed allowing access to communications from
Internet service providers if agencies first meet a judicial
standard comparable to the one for criminal warrants.  White’s proposal is opposed by companies, including the
biggest U.S. Web portal Yahoo, online storage provider
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , electronic market hub  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , personal-finance software provider  Intuit Inc. (INTU) , and search-engine leader
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , in addition to groups such as the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and the American Library Association. They said in a
July 12 letter to Congress that the SEC sought a “sweeping
change” that would allow other agencies conducting civil
investigations, such as the  Internal Revenue Service  and the
Environmental Protection Agency, to get e-mail without warrants.  “It will no doubt be dubbed ‘the IRS exception’ because it
would give all federal agencies including the Internal Revenue
Service access to e-mail and internal communications without a
warrant,” Gregory Nojeim, senior counsel at the Washington-based Center for Democracy & Technology, a policy group that
works for Internet freedom, said in an interview.  Changing Technology  The original act was passed 27 years ago, when e-mail was a
novelty and “no one could have imagined the way the Internet
and mobile technologies would transform how we communicate,”
Leahy told colleagues March 19 as he introduced the bill.  Companies face a welter of requests from local courts and
sheriffs, federal agencies and county governments, and have a
“broad consensus” that the law needs to be updated,  Ed Black ,
president of the Computer & Communications Industry Association,
a Washington-based trade group with members including Google,
Yahoo,  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Microsoft Corp., said in an interview.  Disquiet over domestic intelligence-gathering revealed by
fugitive Edward Snowden, a former security contractor for Booz
Allen Hamilton Holding Corp., has spurred lawmakers to debate
controls on government access to private information, improving
odds Congress will pass the bill, Nojeim said.  The Senate bill is co-sponsored by Senator  Mike Lee , a Utah
Republican. Similar legislation in the House, introduced by
Representative Kevin Yoder, a Kansas Republican, has attracted
136 co-sponsors.  Expanding Business  The business of storing information remotely, in the so-called cloud, was worth an estimated $110.3 billion in 2012 and
could expand to $210 billion by this year, according to Gartner
Inc., a technology researcher based in  Stamford , Connecticut.
Growth in the sector where leaders include Google, Apple Inc.,
Microsoft and Amazon could slow if businesses are concerned
their information isn’t secure, according to a June 13 report by
Bloomberg Government analysts  Michael Nelson  and  Allan Holmes .  “Companies have -- and our customers want us to have -- a
duty and the legal ability to protect their privacy,” Black
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  