-- Serb PM’s Party Backs Cabinet Shuffle, Split of Ally’s Ministry
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-07-26T15:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/serb-pm-s-party-backs-cabinet-shuffle-split-of-ally-s-ministry.html
Serbian Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s
Socialist Party backed a move to shuffle the cabinet a year
since taking office, demanding a split of the Finance and
Economy Ministry as a condition to keep the coalition intact.  Dacic’s Socialists also pledged to replace its transport
minister, Milutin Mrkonjic, the party said in an e-mailed
statement after its leadership met in Belgrade today.  Deputy Premier Aleksandar Vucic and his Serbian Progressive
Party, the largest coalition member, would win elections if an
early poll is held. It had 40.9 percent support in a July 18-23
survey by Faktor Plus pollster in Belgrade. The party initiated
the shuffle and has threatened early elections if their demands
are not met.  “Considering the government’s main goal in the coming
period is economic and financial consolidation and development,
it’s crucial to have a division of responsibilities through
splitting the ministry in charge of finance and economy,”
according to the Socialists’ statement.  The Finance and Economy Ministry is led by  Mladjan Dinkic ,
the leader of the United Regions of  Serbia , the smallest of the
three parties in the coalition.  If Dinkic does not agree to split his ministry, “it will
be necessary to define a new coalition agreement so the Serbian
government can continue to pursue its goals,” the Socialists
said in the statement.  The three political groups garnered a combined 131 seats in
the 250-member parliament in July 2012, after they promised to
continue the Balkan country’s fiscal consolidation, resume talks
with the  International Monetary Fund  and the  World Bank  and
integrate faster into the European Union.  Double Recession  Dacic has been trying to boost the economy, which has
fallen into recession twice in the past three years, leaving a
quarter of the nation’s workforce without jobs.  The  budget deficit  is expected to top at least 6 percent of
gross domestic product this year, down from 7.3 percent in 2012.
The current-account deficit will reach 8.7 percent of GDP
according to IMF forecasts.  Monetary policy makers are balancing the need to shore up
Serbia’s $37 billion economy against fighting inflation and
shielding the dinar from market turmoil. The inflation rate fell
to 9.9 percent in May, dipping below 10 percent for the first
time in nine months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net ;
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  