-- Sino Grandness to List Garden Fresh Unit in Hong Kong or Taiwan
-- B y   J a s m i n e   N g
-- 2013-07-26T00:54:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/sino-grandness-to-list-garden-fresh-unit-in-hong-kong-or-taiwan.html
Sino Grandness Food Industry Group
Ltd. (SFGI) , a Chinese manufacturer of canned fruits and vegetables,
plans to take its beverage unit public through a share sale in
 Hong Kong  or Taiwan by October 2014.  The company, whose shares are traded in  Singapore , plans to
spin off its Garden Fresh Hong Kong unit, known for its loquat
fruit juice in  China . Sino Grandness will appoint banks for the
stock sale in the next few months to raise at least S$150
million ($118.7 million), Chairman Huang Yupeng said.  The planned offer will help Sino Grandness capitalize on
valuations in the overseas markets where comparable companies in
Hong Kong and Taiwan trade at higher multiples relative to
earnings, according to an April 8  report  by Maybank Kim Eng.
Garden Fresh is expected to have a market capitalization of
S$750 million if it trades at a “conservative” 15 times price-earnings ratio in Hong Kong or  Taiwan , Huang said.  “Consumer companies are highly valued in markets like Hong
Kong and Taiwan,” Huang said in a phone interview on July 23.
“In Singapore, there are small and medium-sized Chinese
companies that are valued very cheaply.” .  Sino Grandness is trading at 6.8 times earnings,  compared 
with the average of 55.6 times for comparable peers from China,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Those in Taiwan have a
multiple of 41, more than twice the Singapore average, while
food and beverage stocks trade at 23.8 times in Hong Kong,
according to the data.  Deadline Risk  Sino Grandness will seek approval from its shareholders and
appoint underwriters for the listing over the next few months,
Huang said. The company has set a target to list Garden Fresh by
October 2014, or it will have to pay a premium when it redeems
its convertible bonds.  Garden Fresh issued two portions of convertible bonds in
2011 and 2012, which can be converted to shares in the
subsidiary when they mature.  If Sino Grandness lists its beverage business by next
October, the bondholders are “likely to convert the bonds into
shares of Garden Fresh, so that they can participate in the
IPO,” Huang said.  Wei estimated that Sino Grandness would need to pay as much
as 723 million  yuan  to all bondholders, based on a 25 percent
effective interest rate, if the shares are not listed by the
maturity date.  Sino Grandness, which has a market value of about S$450
million, has more than doubled in Singapore this year, compared
with the city’s benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI) ’s 2.3 percent
gain. The company announced its plans to list Garden Fresh on an
“internationally recognized stock exchange” in a filing to the
 Singapore Exchange  on July 1.  “We believe the catalyst has not been sufficiently priced
in and buying it now would be akin to a pre-IPO investment in
Garden Fresh,” said Wei Bin, a Maybank analyst, who reiterated
his comments in the April report yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Ng in Singapore at 
 jng281@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  