-- Snyder Embraces Detroit Recovery While Pledging No State Bailout
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-07-26T15:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/snyder-embraces-detroit-recovery-while-pledging-no-state-bailout.html
Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder  has a
vision for tackling what he calls the largest challenge in the
U.S.: resurrecting bankrupt Detroit.  His plan includes a city center filled with restaurants and
hip, home-grown, artisanal manufacturing businesses. He sees
tracts of Detroit’s 139 square miles (360 kilometers) cleared of
blighted buildings and replaced by urban farms. Yet the 54-year-old former venture capitalist and chief executive of Gateway
Inc., opposes an overarching state bailout.  The comeback of Detroit, a Democrat-dominated city with an
83-percent black population, may define the political career of
the white first-term Republican who has avoided partisan warfare
like that waged by party colleagues  Scott Walker  of  Wisconsin 
and  Sam Brownback  of  Kansas . Snyder’s ability to remake the
biggest city in a state that led the U.S. in unemployment during
the recession could provide a blueprint for cooperation on
intractable issues.  “I do what I believe is the right thing, and I don’t get
caught up in all the politics,” Snyder said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s New York headquarters. “The state of  Michigan  is on
the comeback path, in some measure I hope because of the good
things we’ve done over the last three years, and Detroit is part
of Michigan.”  Hipster Businesses  Snyder said he wants to rebuild the city, which has lost
about 60 percent of its population since its peak of 1.8 million
in the 1950s, starting from its denser downtown and Midtown and
moving on to its far-flung and lightly peopled neighborhoods. He
would foster economic development and begin spending $100
million within the next 30 days to bolster safety and remove
blight.  “If people have better services, they’ll be in Detroit,”
he said. Holding out his arm to show off a made-on-Milwaukee-Street  Shinola  watch, he described  Detroit ’s Midtown as “this
environment where you have watchmakers, you have microbrewers,
you have people living in lofts.”  Detroit, the birthplace of the automobile assembly line and
a one-time symbol of industrial might, filed the biggest U.S.
municipal bankruptcy July 18. Decades of decline had left it too
poor to pay billions of dollars owed bondholders, retired cops
and current city workers.  The city where officials struggle to provide public safety
and even streetlights faces $18 billion of debt, an amount
Snyder called “crushing.” He said Emergency Financial Manager
Kevyn Orr’s decision to file bankruptcy was the city’s only
option.  Young Trader  Snyder has been primed for finance since youth. He started
trading stocks at 11 with $1,000 from his parents. His portfolio
helped pay for college and a down payment on a house. He earned
both an MBA and law degree by 23 at the  University of Michigan .  After serving as chairman and chief executive officer at
North Sioux City, South Dakota-based Gateway Inc., a computer
company acquired in 2007 by  Acer Inc. (2353) , Snyder became a venture
capitalist.  Since he was elected in 2010, Snyder has focused on
Detroit, calling it the linchpin of Michigan’s economic
recovery. He’s battled to build a bridge from Detroit to  Canada ,
a span he says will boost commerce. Snyder tried to develop a
close relationship with Mayor Dave Bing, a former Detroit
Pistons basketball star, even going to a University of Michigan
game with the Democrat.  Civic Amenities  The governor proposed having the state take over and repair
Belle Isle Park, a 983-acre refuge on the Detroit River that has
fallen into disrepair. Snyder proposed turning the site into a
state park, which would have saved the city $6 million a year.
The city council, which lost its power when Snyder appointed
Orr, snubbed him.  Projects such as the bridge, a light-rail initiative and a
new $650 million arena for the National Hockey League’s Red
Wings will revitalize Detroit, Snyder said.  “I am committing state money, but I’m not doing it in
terms of just paying a bailout to pay off debt -- it’s on
focused projects,” Snyder said. “I view it as how we can put
state resources toward better services to citizens, not simply
debt service.”  “We are looking beyond simply this phase of the next 15 to
16 months,” the governor said. “We are looking at what needs
to be done for a sustainable Detroit.”  Detroit’s Republicans  He has succeeded in a similar repair job on state finances,
assisted by the federal bailout of the  auto industry . Moody’s
Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s this year both revised
their outlooks on the eighth-most-populous state to positive,
citing increased reserves and a resurgent economy.  Snyder and a Republican-dominated legislature have balanced
budgets and rearranged taxes. They’ve cut education spending,
business regulations,  unemployment benefits  and retirement
health benefits for public employees. The governor also
championed a new emergency manager law that critics called a
power grab, yet one that has put him in the middle of the
bankruptcy and the political jeopardy that comes with it.  Snyder isn’t the first Republican to be identified with
Democratic Detroit, said  Bill Ballenger , publisher of Lansing-based Inside Michigan Politics newsletter. In the 1970s,
Governor William Milliken forged a relationship with Mayor
Coleman Young, Detroit’s first black mayor and a fiery
Democratic partisan.  That put Milliken at odds with party colleagues as state
aid flowed to the city, Ballenger said. Michigan’s newest state
park is in Detroit, on the riverfront, and is named after
Milliken.  Snyder stands to gain if the public perceives Detroit as
better off from bankruptcy, Ballenger said.  “For the time being, he’s getting the benefit of the
doubt,” Ballenger said. “There are a lot of people in Detroit
who support what he’s doing, but are afraid to speak up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Christoff in Lansing, Michigan at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  