-- Soriano’s Return to Yankees Is Imminent, Cubs Manager Sveum Says
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-07-26T04:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/soriano-s-return-to-yankees-is-imminent-cubs-manager-sveum-says.html
Alfonso Soriano is close to
returning to the  New York Yankees  after a nine-year absence,
Chicago Cubs manager  Dale Sveum  said.  Sveum replaced the outfielder with Nate Schierholtz in his
lineup for last night’s game at the  Arizona  Diamondbacks after
Cubs President of Baseball Operations Theo Epstein told the
manager a trade for Soriano was imminent.  “I took him out of the lineup and put Schierholtz in,”
Sveum told reporters. “Theo called and said (the trade) is
pretty close to being done, so just better off not playing
him.”  Chicago is waiting for the 37-year-old Soriano to formally
waive his right to reject a trade before completing the
transaction, ESPN said last night. Soriano has one year
remaining on a $136 million, eight-year deal, MLB.com said.  The Yankees want to sign Soriano before  Major League
Baseball ’s July 31 trade deadline because of a lack of power
hitting caused by injuries to key players. Soriano has eight
home runs during July, one more than the entire Yankees team.  New York ranks 24th of 30 MLB teams with 88 home runs this
year after leading the majors with 245 homers during the 2012
regular season. The Yankees have scored 395 runs this year to
rank 22nd after finishing second in that category last year with
804 runs.  The Yankees’ offense has been stymied by the absence of
injured players including  Derek Jeter  and  Alex Rodriguez .  Curtis Granderson , who hit a team-high 43 home runs last year, and  Mark Teixeira , who contributed 24 home runs, are also on the disabled
list.  Soriano-Rodriguez Trade  The Yankees are fourth in the five-team American League
East with a 54-48 mark, 6 1/2 games behind the division-leading
 Boston Red Sox .  Soriano is batting .254 this season with 17 home runs and
51 runs batted in. During his 15-year career, which began in
1999 with the Yankees, he has a .272 batting average with 389
home runs, 1,989 hits and 1,086 RBIs.  Soriano was traded by the Yankees to the  Texas Rangers  for
Rodriguez on Feb. 2, 2004. He played two seasons with the
Rangers and one for the Washington Nationals before joining the
Cubs in November 2006.  Shortstop Jeter, who batted in 58 runs and had 15 homers
last year, said yesterday that he’ll be ready to play tomorrow,
when he’s eligible to come off the disabled list, at Yankee
Stadium against the Tampa Bay Rays.  “I think I could play today,” Jeter said after running
the bases before New York’s 2-0 win at the Rangers yesterday.
“I feel good. I didn’t feel my leg, which is good.”  Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  was more circumspect, saying
the team captain will be assessed by a doctor after running the
bases again today.  Jeter played one game this season before returning to the
disabled list July 19 with a quadriceps strain. Jeter, 39,
sustained the injury after returning from offseason ankle
surgery on July 12.  Rehabilitation Plan  Rodriguez said last night that he’ll accept a five-day
Yankees rehabilitation plan for a thigh muscle strain that may
see him return Aug. 6.  Rodriguez and the Yankees have been verbally jousting over
his return after hip surgery in January. The Yankees may
discipline the third baseman for seeking a second opinion on a
thigh injury sustained during a minor-league rehab stint because
he didn’t get permission from the team first, the  Associated
Press  reported last night.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  