-- South Africa Seeks New Markets for Citrus Fruit as EU Ban Looms
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n   a n d   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2013-07-26T15:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/south-africa-seeks-new-markets-for-citrus-fruit-as-eu-ban-looms.html
South Africa  is targeting  China  and
India as new destinations for citrus fruit exports following the
European Union’s threat of an import ban, Agriculture Minister
Tina Joemat-Pettersson said today.  The EU in February said it would restrict citrus imports
should it intercept five incidences a year of citrus black spot,
a fungus which causes blemishes on fruit. The trading block
accounts for 40 percent, or 3 billion rand ($308 million) in
value, of South Africa’s citrus exports, Pieter Nortje, chairman
of the Citrus Growers Association of Southern Africa, told
reporters in Johannesburg.  “We are not replacing the EU market,” Joemat-Pettersson
said. “The citrus industry has been challenged in the EU so we
cannot put all our eggs in one basket. We believe that  India  and
China are the countries with the most opportunities.”  India levies a 40 percent duty and China requires cold
storage of sub-zero degrees on imports, Nortje said.  “We believe it could be eased and relaxed slightly,”
Joemat-Pettersson said.  The EU last week in trade talks gave South Africa a
temporary reprieve from the requirement on citrus black spot for
this year only, Nortje said.  “We do have a big problem in  Europe ,” said Nortje. “It’s
not a wake-up call, it’s been coming for 15 years.”  The first incidence of citrus black spot for the year was
reported last week following 39 interceptions in 2012, Nortje
said. “We will exceed five,” he said.  South Africa’s citrus fruit industry provides 60,000
permanent and up to 100,000 temporary jobs, Joemat-Pettersson
said.  The country has already started shipping smaller quantities
to other new markets, including  Zimbabwe  and  South Korea , said
Justin Chadwick, chief executive officer of the Citrus Growers
Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  