-- Spectra Wins $3 Billion Interstate Florida Gas Pipeline
-- B y   B i l l   F a r i e s   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2013-07-26T20:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/spectra-wins-3-billion-interstate-florida-gas-pipeline.html
Spectra Energy Corp. (SE)  will build a $3
billion interstate natural gas pipeline with  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE) 
to supply the fuel for  Florida ’s growing power generation needs.  The new line will run 465 miles (750 kilometers) from
Alabama to a hub in central Florida, and carry as much as 1
billion cubic feet a day of gas, NextEra’s regulated utility,
Florida Power & Light Co., said today in a statement. As winner
of the contract, Houston-based Spectra will operate the pipeline
and invest $2 billion while NextEra funds the remainder, it
said.  NextEra, based in Juno Beach, Florida, will spend $550
million to build a separate pipeline from the new hub to its
generating plant in Indiantown, Florida.  The project will be the third pipeline connecting Florida
to new sources of gas around the country, including shale fields
in  Texas  and the Northeast. FPL will be a major customer for the
project, which also will sell capacity to other users. Florida
consumes more natural gas for power generation than any U.S.
state except Texas, and has virtually no production of its own.  “Natural gas is vital to the reliability and affordability
of electricity in our state,” FPL President Eric Silagy said in
the statement.  NextEra has been focused on driving  earnings  through
infrastructure investments as tepid demand has damped sales at
Florida Power & Light. The company said in March that it may
invest as much as $23 billion though 2016, including its new
pipeline project. FPL, the state’s biggest utility, is upgrading
gas generators as it seeks to make its fleet more efficient and
prepare for a rebound in economic growth.  Expansion Plans  Spectra, the third-largest pipeline operator in the U.S. by
market value, operates 22,000 miles of gas and crude oil
pipelines in the U.S. and Canada. The Florida project is part of
$25 billion Chief Executive Officer Greg Ebel plans to spend
through the end of the decade to expand the company’s assets,
according to a separate Spectra statement today.  The company is completing an $800 million connection from
 New Jersey  to  New York City . Ebel said Spectra was outbid
earlier this year by Calgary-based  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  on a
pipeline to connect natural gas fields in Canada to a proposed
export terminal in British Columbia.  The Florida pipeline must be approved by Florida regulators
and the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Construction
is scheduled to start in 2016, and the line could be in service
by May 2017, according to NextEra’s statement. Spectra and
NextEra have formed a joint venture called Sabal Trail
Transmission LLC for the project.  Kinder Morgan (KMI)  Inc., the biggest U.S. pipeline company, and
 Williams Cos. (WMB)  previously said they planned to bid on the
project.  Florida is served by two other interstate gas pipelines,
both of which are nearing full capacity. Florida Gas
Transmission has a capacity of 3.1 billion cubic feet a day, and
Gulfstream has a capacity of 1.29 billion cubic feet a day.
Spectra co-owns the Gulfstream line with Williams Cos.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Faries in Miami at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  