-- Sutherland, Sullivan & Cromwell: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-07-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/sutherland-sullivan-cromwell-business-of-law.html
Sheldon M. Kay, chief of appeals at
the Internal Revenue Service, will return to Sutherland Asbill &
Brennan LLP as a partner in the tax practice group on Sept. 1.  Kay will focus on tax controversy issues, including IRS
procedures, dispute resolutions and tax litigation matters, the
firm said. Kay was a partner in Sutherland’s tax practice before
joining the IRS Appeals Office in 2011.  “Shelly’s professional experience is extraordinary, and we
are pleased to welcome him back to the firm,” Sutherland
managing partner Mark D. Wasserman said in a statement. “He
possesses both the deep experience and government service that
have long been hallmarks of Sutherland.”  Sutherland Asbill has 425 attorneys at seven offices in the
U.S. and  London .  Saul Ewing Adds Corporate Lawyer With Health and Tax Experience  Saul Ewing LLP announced that Glenn D. Fox joined the firm
as a partner in the business and finance department and will be
a member of the health, corporate and tax practices, in the
Philadelphia office. He was previously at Schnader Harrison
Segal & Lewis LLP.  He has experience representing business and nonprofit
organizations, including senior living, long-term care and other
health care providers, in corporate, transactional, tax and
financial matters, the firm said.  “In addition to Glenn’s experience handling legal matters
for health systems, health care providers and senior living
entities, his strong background in counseling clients on mergers
and acquisitions, restructurings and related financial deals
will greatly augment the suite of business services we offer our
clients,” Barry F. Levin, chair of the business and finance
department said in a statement.  Saul Ewing has more than 250 lawyers in 11 East Coast U.S.
offices.  Davis Wright Hires Technology Partner Seattle  Wendy Kearns, a lawyer who ran her own boutique technology
firm, joined the technology transactional and M&A practice at
Davis Wright Tremaine LLP in  Seattle .  Kearns has handled licensing and technology transactions
matters as well as has experience with cloud services
agreements, video game industry agreements, marketing and
advertising agreements, and university intellectual property
transactions, the firm said.  Davis Wright has approximately 500 lawyers in the U.S. and
 Shanghai .  Deals  S&C Advises PacWest on $2.3 Billion CapitalSource Purchase  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP advised  PacWest Bancorp (PACW) , which
agreed to purchase  CapitalSource Inc. (CSE)  in a deal valued at about
$2.3 billion, to create the eighth-largest commercial bank based
in California. Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz was legal counsel
for CapitalSource.  The S&C team includes partners Patrick Brown, corporate;
Matt Friestedt, employee benefits; and Ron Creamer, tax.  Wachtell’s team was led by corporate partners Edward D. Herlihy and Matthew M. Guest. Additional partners working on the
deal included: Richard K. Kim, corporate; Jeannemarie O’Brien,
executive compensation and benefits; and Joshua M. Holmes, tax.  CapitalSource investors will get about $11.64 in PacWest
stock and cash, 18 percent more than yesterday’s closing price,
the Los Angeles-based companies said in a statement. Each
CapitalSource share will be exchanged for 0.2837 PacWest share
and $2.47 in cash, according to the statement.  The combined bank would have about $15.4 billion in assets,
with 96 branches in  California , the most populous U.S. state,
according to yesterday’s statement. PacWest Chief Executive
Officer Matt Wagner will lead the combined firm and James Pieczynski, CEO of the target company, will run the
CapitalSource unit.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Nixon Peabody Names Doran Tax Credit Finance Head  Gregory N. Doran, a Washington partner at Nixon Peabody
LLP, was named head of the tax credit finance and syndication
practice.  “We partner with our clients to shape tomorrow’s tax
credit transactions. To make these projects a reality, clients
need to align the complex and sometimes contradictory funding
layers so that the deal will close and investments are safe,”
Doran said in a statement. “Whether it’s energy, historic,
housing or new markets tax credits, no firm has a deeper bench
of well-connected industry experts.”  Doran, who has experience working for the  Internal Revenue
Service , concentrates his practice on transactions involving the
New Markets Tax Credit. He also advises clients on transactions
related to historic preservation and other federal and state
programs designed to promote development in underserved markets,
the firm said.  Doran succeeds Jeffrey S. Lesk, who expanded the practice
from its focus on housing to include historic, new markets,
energy and housing tax credits. Lesk, managing partner of the
Nixon Peabody’s Washington office, will continue handling tax
credit finance and syndication matters.  Litigation  Tourre Calls Message a ‘Silly, Romantic E-Mail’ to Girlfriend  Fabrice Tourre, the former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. vice
president facing civil fraud claims over a $1 billion mortgage
bond debacle, said yesterday an e-mail he sent to his girlfriend
was “silly” and “romantic” and that he didn’t create any
“monstrosities.”  His e-mails are at the center of a case that alleges Tourre
misled clients on a 2007 mortgage-backed investment that lost a
group of investors about $1 billion when the housing market
crashed.  Tourre is testifying near the end of two weeks of evidence
against him brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The agency’s lawyers are trying to show Tourre
misled investors about the role of Paulson & Co., the hedge fund
run by  John Paulson , in helping select the assets behind the
investment, which the fund then bet against. Tourre took the
stand after Laura Schwartz, a participant in the deal and a key
SEC witness against Tourre.  Earlier in the trial both the prosecution and defense
addressed a January 2007 e-mail from Tourre to his girlfriend,
which included the “Fabulous” nickname that’s stuck to him
since it became public. SEC lawyer Matthew Martens said the e-mail shows Tourre knew what he was doing was wrong. Tourre’s
lawyer,  Pamela Chepiga , of  Allen & Overy LLP, called it “an
old-fashioned love letter” that has nothing to do with the
issues in the case.  “What this e-mail expresses is the self-doubt of a young
man, about whom there is nothing fabulous, struggling in a
financial world that is uncertain and going through uncertain
times,” Chepiga told jurors.  In the e-mail, Tourre alternated between English and
French, writing: “More and more leverage in the system, the
whole building is about to collapse anytime now ... Only
potential survivor, the fabulous Fab ... standing in the middle
of all these complex, highly levered, exotic trades he created
without necessarily understanding all the implications of those
monstruosities!!!”  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  For more, click here.  Video  SAC Pursuit of ‘Edge’ Led to Criminality, Bharara Says  Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara and George Venizelos,
assistant director in charge of the FBI’s New York field office,
speak about an indictment alleging SAC Capital Advisors LP
perpetrated an unprecedented insider trading scheme.  The hedge fund founded by  Steven A. Cohen  was charged with
four counts of  securities fraud  and one count of  wire fraud  in
an indictment unsealed in Manhattan federal court. Bharara and
Venizelos speak at a news conference in New York.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 