-- U.K. Regulator Rebuffs Co-Op Bank Bondholders’ Call for Review
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-07-26T11:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/u-k-regulator-rebuffs-co-op-bank-bondholders-call-for-review.html
The Prudential Regulation Authority
rebuffed calls from a group of Co-Operative Bank Plc bondholders
for a review of the U.K. lender’s restructuring plan, telling
them how the company raises money is up to its management.  Co-Operative Bank said last month it will swap some debt
for equity as part of a plan to raise 1.5 billion pounds ($2.3
billion) of capital after the failure of its bid for 632  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  branches exposed the deficit. The bank has
about 7,000 bondholders with holdings of 25,000 pounds or less.  Mark Taber, organizer of a group of bondholders, wrote on
July 9 to  Andrew Bailey , the PRA’s chief executive officer,
asking for a review of the lender’s plan. His group is one of at
least three seeking better terms for bondholders in the
restructuring.  “The PRA has always been clear that the way in which that
extra capital was to be raised was a matter for the Co-Operative
Bank itself,” Bailey said in a letter to Taber on July 23 seen
by  Bloomberg News .  Bailey declined to comment on why the Co-Operative Bank’s
auditor, KPMG LLP, indicated that the bank was well-capitalised
in accounts published in March. He reiterated regulators told
the lender it should have raised capital in 2011. He declined to
give additional details, citing confidentiality agreements.  Sarah Bailey, a spokeswoman for the PRA, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment. A spokeswoman for  KPMG  also
declined to immediately comment.  Regulator’s Approval  Taber said he has responded to Bailey, saying the terms of
the lender’s perpetual subordinated bonds require consent from
regulators for repurchase.  “It is therefore completely within the power of the PRA to
influence the terms of any offer made to holders of the bank’s
retail bonds,” Taber wrote.  Co-Operative Bank’s capital has been depleted by soured
consumer and commercial real estate loans stemming from the
purchase of Britannia Building Society in 2009. Loan impairments
more than quadrupled to 468.7 million pounds in 2012, the
company said in March. The bank had a pretax loss of 673.7
million pounds in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  