-- U.S. Stocks Rebound as Yen Climbs, Commodities Slide
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-07-26T20:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/u-s-stocks-fall-as-yen-climbs-on-inflation-metals-slip.html
U.S. stocks rose, erasing earlier
losses, as investors watched earnings ahead of central bank
meetings next week. The yen climbed after a jump in consumer
prices reduced speculation  Japan  will need to boost stimulus,
while commodities slid as  China  cut manufacturing capacity.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.1 percent to
1,691.65 at 4 p.m. in  New York , after dropping as much as 0.8
percent. The gauge was down less than 0.1 percent for the week,
snapping a four-week rally. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped
0.2 percent. Japan’s currency rose 1 percent to 98.27 per
dollar, bringing this week’s gain to 2.4 percent. The  S&P GSCI (SPGSCI) 
gauge of 24 raw materials dropped 0.6 percent, with copper down
2.5 percent and West Texas Intermediate oil falling 0.7 percent.
Treasuries rose for a second day.  Starbucks Corp. beat earnings forecasts while Expedia Inc.
posted sales and profit that missed estimates. Consumer prices
in Japan excluding food rose 0.4 percent in June, more than
economists estimated, as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s policies
weaken the yen and energy costs rise. China directed more than
1,400 companies in industries from steelmaking to papermaking to
cut excess capacity by year-end.  “Earnings are coming in through efficiencies, lower
expenses, and lower interest costs,” said Timothy Hoyle, the
director of research at Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Haverford
Investments, which oversees about $6 billion of assets. “We
still don’t see end market demand in the economy.”  Weekly Decline  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  is heading for a 5.3 percent advance for the
month. The gauge fell in June, after seven successive months of
gains, as investors examined economic data for clues on when the
 Federal Reserve  will start to reduce its $85 billion of monthly
bond purchases.  Support from central banks and better-than-estimated
earnings have driven the  S&P 500  up as much as 151 percent from
its March 2009 low to record highs. The Fed has said economic
data will determine the timing and pace of any reduction in its
bond-buying.  The Fed will start trimming its purchases in September,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week it is “way too early to make any
judgment” as to whether policy makers will start tapering
purchases in September. The Fed’s Open Market Committee next
meets to review policy on July 30-31.  Earnings Season  Investors are also watching company  earnings reports.  Of
the 260 companies in the S&P 500 that have posted  quarterly
results  so far, 73 percent have exceeded analysts’  estimates  for
profit and 57 percent have topped sales projections, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Starbucks jumped 7.6 percent after reporting profit that
beat estimates. Zynga Inc. plunged 14 percent after abandoning
plans to enter online gambling and forecasting earnings that
fell short of estimates. Expedia tumbled 27 percent after
missing second-quarter sales and profit estimates.  Consumer confidence  unexpectedly increased in July to the
highest level in six years, according to the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final index of U.S. consumer
sentiment, released today.  Next week offers more clues to the state of the economy.
Accompanying earnings reports from companies including  Procter &
Gamble Co . and Exxon Mobil Corp. will be data on U.S. gross
domestic product and the monthly labor report, as well as
monetary policy announcements by the Fed and the  European
Central Bank .  U.S. GDP  U.S. economic growth probably slowed to 1 percent in the
second quarter from the 1.8 percent pace in the previous period
while employers added 185,000 workers in July, down from 195,000
in June, economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast. The ECB is
likely to leave its benchmark rate at a record low of 0.5
percent, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  The Stoxx 600 has climbed 17 percent since ECB President
 Mario Draghi  said at a speech in  London  a year ago today the
policy makers will do whatever is needed to preserve the euro.
Spanish 10-year yields have dropped to 4.62 percent from a euro-era record 7.75 percent the day before Draghi’s speech. Italian
10-year rates dropped more than 2 percentage points in the same
period, from 6.71 percent.  Tighter Spreads  “We are one year on from ‘whatever it takes,’” Kit Juckes, a global strategist at Societe Generale SA in London,
wrote in e-mailed comments. “The euro has held together, no one
has left, spreads are tighter, PMI is back up, the sun is
shining and even the Spanish  unemployment rate  has fallen.”  The Stoxx 600 lost 0.3 percent this week after four
straight weeks of gains.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ,
the world’s largest luxury-goods maker, climbed 3.6 percent and
Kering SA, owner of the Gucci brand, advanced 3.9 percent after
reporting accelerating sales growth. Deutsche Boerse AG slipped
3.7 percent as the operator of the Frankfurt stock exchange
reported declining profit.  Treasury 10-year note yields fell 1 basis point to 2.56
percent.  U.S. debt  ended two weeks of gains after the government
sold $99 billion of securities over the previous three days,
including seven-year debt at the highest yield since July 2011.  The yen rose against all of its 16 major counterparts,
advancing 1.1 percent to 130.43 per euro. Japan’s Topix index
tumbled 2.9 percent. The dollar was little changed at $1.3274
per euro, for a decline of 1 percent this week.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slipped 0.1 percent. The
Shanghai Composite retreated 0.5 percent.  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930)  lost 0.9 percent in  Seoul  after posting net income of 7.58
trillion won ($6.8 billion) for last quarter, versus an average
analyst estimate of 8.02 trillion won.  The S&P GSCI fell for a third day and lost 2.1 percent for
the week, its first weekly decline since June 21.  Crude futures slid 0.7 percent to $104.70 a barrel,
bringing the decline this week to 3.1 percent. Oil retreated as
much as 1.5 percent today on speculation that China’s plans to
cut excess manufacturing capacity will reduce fuel consumption.
Copper lost 2.5 percent, the most in three weeks, amid concern
that demand will slow.  Gold declined for the third time in four days. Futures for
December delivery lost 0.6 percent to $1,321.90 an ounce on the
Comex in New York. The metal rose 2.2 percent this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  