-- U.S. Equity Funds Grow Amid Outflows From Money Markets, Munis
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-07-26T01:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/u-s-equity-funds-grow-amid-outflows-from-money-markets-munis.html
U.S.  equity  funds attracted
investments for a fourth-straight week while money-market and
municipal bond funds suffered outflows, according to data
compiled by the Denver-based research firm Lipper.  Stock funds gained $5.4 billion in net new money in the
week ended July 24, while fixed-income funds added $4.6 billion,
the data show. Those investing in municipal debt had to hand
back $1.2 billion in the same week as  Detroit  became the most
populous U.S. city to file for  bankruptcy protection . Money-market funds saw net redemptions of $12.7 billion following four
weeks of positive flows.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks has rallied
more than 5 percent this month as corporate earnings exceeded
expectations and concern has eased that the  Federal Reserve  will
reduce stimulus measures too quickly. U.S. municipal securities,
which are often tax-exempt, have lost 1.6 percent this month,
while Treasuries have dropped 0.3 percent, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. Corporate and high-yield debt
gained 0.9 percent.  “Equity and taxable bond fund investors kept the pedal to
the metal,” Tom Roseen, an analyst at Lipper, said in an e-mailed release. “Municipal bond funds continued to hemorrhage
assets.” Investors were net redeemers from funds for the week,
withdrawing just under $4 billion, Roseen said.  Detroit filed the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy July 18
after decades of decline left the city, once synonymous with
America’s auto industry, unable to pay its  debts  and provide
necessary services.  Of the  249 companies  in the  S&P 500  that have posted
results so far in the current quarterly reporting season, 73
percent have exceeded analysts’ profit estimates and 57 percent
have topped sales projections, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sovereign bonds have fallen since Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  signaled last month that the central bank could begin
tapering its asset-purchase program as soon as September. The
yield on the benchmark  10-year Treasury (USGG10YR)  touched a two-year high
of 2.75 percent on July 8 and was at 2.58 percent as of 10:02
a.m. in Tokyo today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  