-- Hungary to Avoid Blitzkrieg on Banks in Loan Plan, Orban Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-07-26T09:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/hungary-to-avoid-blitzkrieg-on-banks-in-loan-plan-orban-says.html
Hungary’s drive to phase out
foreign-currency mortgages won’t be similar to the 2011
“Blitzkrieg” on banks when the government forced lenders to
swallow losses on such loans, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said.  The cabinet wants to eliminate foreign-currency household
mortgages for good as they are the economy’s biggest
vulnerability, Orban said on public radio MR1 Kossuth today.  “We have to find a solution that doesn’t wreck the
financial system and helps those in trouble,” Orban said.
Economy Minister Mihaly Varga has a broad mandate to negotiate
with lenders on a plan, “whether he deletes these loans or,
converts them to forint, or chooses a different solution, that
is up to the minister.”.  The Hungarian premier, who faces elections in 2014, is
offering help to households indebted mostly in Swiss francs
whose payments soared as the forint weakened during the global
credit crisis. The solution will cover about 1.9 trillion forint
($8.4 billion) of such mortgages, while the 1.8 trillion forint
of home-equity loans won’t be included, Economy Ministry State
Secretary Gabor Orban said yesterday.  OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest bank,  rose  0.9 percent to
4,580 forint by 11:32 a.m., extending its biggest weekly gain in
six months. It dropped 36 percent and the forint weakened 12
percent in 2011, when the government allowed clients to pay back
their foreign-currency mortgages at below-market rates.  The forint strengthened 0.5 percent to 296.27 per euro,
snapping a three-day decline.  Hungarian households still hold more than 510,000 foreign-currency mortgage contracts, including 284,000 home-equity
loans, according to central bank data.  “Hungary is strong now, so we aren’t seeking a solution
similar to the early repayment, we want calm, sober negotiations
and to help not just a fraction of foreign-currency borrowers
but get rid of the institution of such loans altogether,” Prime
Minister Orban said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  