-- Hungary Ministry’s Orban Says Mortgage Plan Can’t Hurt Forint
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-07-26T07:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/hungary-ministry-s-orban-says-mortgage-plan-can-t-hurt-forint.html
Hungarian Economy Ministry State
Secretary Gabor Orban comments on the government’s plans to help
foreign-currency borrowers and the outlook for the economy. He
spoke in an interview in Budapest yesterday.  On the potential plan to help foreign-currency mortgage
borrowers:  “The government views the phasing out of foreign-currency
mortgage loans as a financial and not a legal question. Just as
the stability of the legal system shouldn’t be at risk from a
bad financial product or model, the safe functioning of the
financial system also shouldn’t be at risk from a bad legal
solution. These aren’t invalid contracts, but bad products that
don’t belong in the financial portfolio of households.  ‘‘There’s no need to expect something similar to the early
repayment plan, the comparison is a big stretch. The two don’t
show any relation in spirit.”  On the scope of the program:  “The logic has to be different for performing and non-performing loans. The first step, i think, is to separate these
two. Our aim is to make sure that this doesn’t, under any
circumstance, brings about a strengthening of excessive risk
taking or abuses.  ‘‘The program would cover mortgages, not home-equity loans.
From an economic-policy perspective, we are of course trying to
help foreign-currency borrowers, but we must also see that we
can’t endanger other people’s savings or loans through helping
them.”  On the effects on financial stability:  “We’re not yet at the point in our discussions to know
what is acceptable politically and for society and also possible
to execute from the point of view of financial stability. The
past three years showed that try as we might with different
solutions, the basic problem is with this product.
Unfortunately, the clients weren’t prepared for it, perhaps the
banks weren’t prepared for it, while the supervising authority
didn’t sufficiently execute its consumer-protection role. What I
can definitely say is that the phasing out of foreign-currency
loans will be a process measured in years.”  On the effect on forint borrowers:  “The government’s basic expectation of the solution is
that forint borrowers can’t be worse off is a general principle.
We don’t consider it an expectable requirement for the bank to
calculate this to the last penny for every client.”  On the timing of the program:  “In this program, we have to aim for this product to be
phased out as soon as possible, because of the excesses of
foreign-currency based housing loans -- the sense of justice in
all of us dictates that this product wasn’t fair in every
respect. Our current goal is to have discussions with all the
involved parties. In the coming weeks, we’ll have talks with the
civic organizations of foreign-currency mortgage borrowers as
well as the Banking Association.  ‘‘I think forint conversion would be the main track, but
we’re not exactly talking about the full volume being in forint
by the middle of next year, but about accelerating this phasing
out. Say, the last foreign-currency loan shouldn’t disappear in
11 years, but less than that.  ‘‘What helps in working out the construction is that we
have several months to build a solution with the participation
of the involved parties that is satisfactory to everyone.  ‘‘The government wants to start the program within a
reasonable deadline, we absolutely have to start the process
this year. We have to aim for closing this issue as soon as
possible. But it must be seen that, obviously, we started the
discussions because there are market risks that the government
needs to evaluate. It’s obviously in nobody’s interest for the
banking system’s stability to be shaken or tipped over. The
Hungarian banking system is stable, meaning that there’s no bank
in  Hungary  that wouldn’t meet  capital requirements . At the same
time, it’s a question how a foreign owner behaves if it incurs
losses on the closing of a contract. From that perspective,
there’s a risk that the Hungarian state would have to
participate in helping a bank. This is something we don’t want
to risk. That’s partly why we are talking to the financial
institutions, to find out what fits into the maneuvering room
they have.  On the future of the exchange-rate barrier plan:  ‘‘For the question of the exchange-rate barrier, we can’t
exclude that there would be some sort of solution for the period
after the deadline.  ‘‘This would be a co-ordinated and directed process, in
which the clients would be transferred to forint after some time
without their payments rising.”  On the role of the central bank:  “We definitely have to have discussions with the Magyar
Nemzeti Bank, since it’s possible that the central bank will
have a role in the process.”  On the effect on the banking industry:  “Our experience shows that the banking industry can better
live with the burdens that are spread out over time. Therefore,
we aren’t looking for a solution that would suddenly change the
whole thing in a radical way.”  On the forint’s exchange rate:  “Weakening the forint’s exchange rate isn’t part, or
wouldn’t be a welcome consequence of this program. The corporate
debt stock and the government’s open position continues to
necessitate the forint’s exchange rate to not be viewed as a
policy variable that can be used without limits.  ‘‘The negative consequences of the exchange-rate weakening
beyond a certain point continue to exist and that will continue
to be the case after the package.  ‘‘The banks will have to wind down their remaining foreign-currency positions after the program and that can be done by the
central bank or the banks themselves on the market. The latter
is possible if the solution happens in a very gradual way.  On the program’s effect on the budget:  ‘‘The solution must take into account the ability of every
involved party to take on burden and the government’s ability to
take on burden is clearly staked out by the excessive deficit in
the European Union sense. There’s an openness from the
government’s side to take some part in this program if we can
find a sensible solution.”  On the outlook for the economy:  “Based on what we’re seeing now, there won’t be a need for
further measures to reach this year’s budget target. This year’s
risks were dealt with in a final way by the two-rounds of
measures.  ‘‘Based on the incoming data, we may adjust the growth
forecast a bit higher and the inflation forecast a bit lower and
the two together will have a neutral effect on the tax base.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  