-- Visa Sued Over Card Fees by U.K. Retailers Including Asda
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-07-26T15:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/visa-sued-over-card-fees-by-u-k-retailers-from-asda-to-arcadia.html
Visa Inc., which operates the
world’s biggest electronic-payments network, was sued by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda unit, William Morrison Supermarkets Plc
and Arcadia Group Plc over payment-processing fees.  The three companies sued Visa and its former European
affiliate Visa Europe Ltd., at a London court on July 23,
according to court records.  The European Union proposed caps this week on such levies,
known as interchange fees, that banks can demand from retailers
at 0.2 percent for debit card payments and 0.3 percent for
credit cards.  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  is also being sued by more than a
dozen companies over the fees in the U.K., including Asda and
Morrison, the U.K.’s fourth-largest grocery store chain.  “We have not seen this claim,” a spokesman for Visa
 Europe , Mark Hooper, said in an e-mail. “We are surprised that
a case might be brought and, if it was, would strongly contest
it.”  Tania Foster-Brown, a spokeswoman for Arcadia, Russell Craig, a spokesman for Asda, and James French, a spokesman for
Morrison, declined to comment beyond confirming the subject of
the lawsuits. Comet Group Ltd., Iceland Foods Group Ltd., and
six others also filed lawsuits on the same day.  The EU’s antitrust regulators have been reviewing credit
and debit card fees for over a decade, warning that the way the
charges are agreed is anti-competitive. The bloc’s agency said
in 2007 that MasterCard’s fees for cross-border card payments
violated antitrust rules, unfairly inflating the fees paid by
retailers for processing payments.  While interchange fees can be agreed on by banks, card
companies such as Visa and MasterCard provide default ones that
are used unless lenders comes to their own bilateral
arrangements.  Visa Europe split from  Visa Inc. (V)  before the U.S. card
company’s initial public offering in early 2008.  The case is Asda Stores Ltd. v Visa Inc. & Ors, case no.
13-984, U.K.  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  