-- Vivendi Bolsters Goldman to Lazard as Makeover Wins Fees
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-07-26T22:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/vivendi-buoys-banks-as-big-deals-yield-big-fees.html
For investment banks,  Vivendi SA (VIV)  is
a gift that keeps on giving.  The metamorphosis of Europe’s biggest telecommunications
and media company, which participated in $61 billion in asset
purchases and sales in the last decade, has generated a steady
stream of fees for merger and acquisition advisers.  This week the Paris-based company announced $13.8 billion
in deals, including yesterday’s agreement to sell most of its
stake in video-game group  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  for $8.2
billion. For bankers, who stand to gain as much as $145 million
in fees in the week’s sales, according to research firm Freeman
& Co., the deals have been a boon. First-half global
transactions slid 4 percent from the year-earlier period to
about $988 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The intermediaries, and notably the banks, are happiest
with these operations, and in some cases, the biggest
shareholders,” said Anis Bouayad, chairman of consulting firm
Strategie Alliance in Paris.  Banks from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. are benefitting from the efforts of Vivendi
Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou to unwind an empire that included the
world’s largest video-games company, the biggest music
distributor and  France ’s second-largest mobile-phone company.
Vivendi has paid out about $348 million in investment-banking
fees since 2008, according to Freeman.  Once a sleepy French water utility that went by the name of
Generale des Eaux, Vivendi was transformed in the 1990s by
former Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Marie Messier , a self-proclaimed “Master of the Universe,” into a globe-spanning
entertainment group.  Vivendi’s Transformation  Messier was ousted in 2002, with his acquisition binge
leaving behind a company that posted the biggest loss in French
corporate history. Former CEO  Jean-Bernard Levy , from whom
Fourtou took the reins last year, added assets from  Brazil  to
France.  Bankers rode the wave of Vivendi’s expansion, and are now
riding it back down as the company shrinks.  With Vivendi, “you build it up, and you take it down,”
said  Conor O’Shea , an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in
Paris. “It’s always been this churning of assets.”  The volume of Vivendi’s dealmaking in the last decade was
roughly equal to that of local competitor Orange SA, whose 2012
revenues were about 50 percent greater and which employs almost
three times as many people.  Earlier this week, Vivendi announced exclusive talks to
unload its 53 percent stake in Maroc Telecom SA for 4.2 billion
euros ($5.6 billion) to Emirates Telecommunications Co.,
reversing an attempt to build an African mobile business.  Bankers’ Bonanza  For the Maroc Telecom sale, Vivendi tapped Lazard and
Credit Agricole SA for advice, while the buyer, better known as
Etisalat, relied on BNP Paribas SA.  On the Activision deal, Goldman Sachs and Barclays advised
Vivendi, JPMorgan worked with Activision while the game
publisher’s special committee of directors was advised by
Centerview Partners LLC. Activision CEO Bobby Kotick and his
partners, who are among the buyers, were advised by Allen & Co.  The deal will bring Centerview, a New York-based boutique,
within striking distance of UBS AG in rankings for M&A advice,
with total volume of about $65 billion, Bloomberg data show.  Vivendi’s  revenue  has almost halved from its peak of 58.2
billion euros in 2002 to about 29 billion euros last year. A
company representative declined to comment on the fees it pays
banks on transactions.  Fourtou’s Strategy  Fourtou is pushing Vivendi to focus on media assets such as
 Universal Music  Group, the world’s largest record label, and
French pay-TV provider Canal Plus instead of slower-growing
telecommunications businesses.  To be sure, Vivendi has benefitted from the assets in its
stable. Strong growth at GVT and Activision, which publishes
titles like “ Call of Duty ” and “World of Warcraft,” helped
it beat earnings estimates, and Maroc Telecom gave it a slice of
a growing market for mobile communications in  Africa .  Brazilian broadband provider GVT, for which Fourtou
unsuccessfully sought a buyer, has also expanded in tandem with
the growth of the South American country’s middle class. It was
a centerpiece of Levy’s telecommunications-focused strategy.  This week’s announcements add to a long list of media and
telecommunications transactions. The largest was the 2011
purchase of  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s stake in SFR, the second-largest French mobile operator, for $11.3 billion.  More Deals  In 2009, Vivendi sold its minority stake in  NBC Universal ,
the owner of U.S. television networks and Hollywood studios, to
General Electric Co. for $3.8 billion.  Vivendi executives are already flagging further deals.  “One possibility among others is that we engineer a split
of the company with SFR being taken out of the perimeter,”
Chief Financial Officer Philippe Capron said on a call with
analysts yesterday. “The GVT process could be started again.
That would leave us to start re-growing the group again around
Universal Music and Canal.”  While little is certain about the future composition of
Vivendi, which oversees its empire from a building on Paris’s
Avenue Friedland,  Europe ’s M&A bankers may have more occasions
to visit its headquarters in the shadow of the Arc de Triomphe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  