-- LVMH Increases Holding in Rival Hermes in ‘Opportunistic’ Move
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-07-26T14:24:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/lvmh-increases-holding-in-rival-hermes-in-opportunistic-move.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ,
the world’s largest luxury goods maker, said it increased its
stake in  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA to 23.1 percent from 22.6
percent in what it described as “an opportunistic move.”  “It doesn’t say anything about our attitude in the future
so you cannot extrapolate that for the rest of the year,” Chief
Financial Officer Jean-Jacques Guiony said on a conference call.  Paris-based LVMH raised its stake in the maker of Birkin
bags in the first six months of 2013, according to LVMH’s half-year consolidated financial statement published yesterday. As of
June 30, Hermes’s share price, applied for the purpose of
valuing this investment, was 248 euros, LVMH said. Hermes traded
at 254.55 euros as of 4:18 p.m. in Paris today.  Hermes has called repeatedly for LVMH to reduce the stake
it built starting in 2010 after converting cash settlement equity
swaps.  France ’s financial markets regulator fined LVMH 8 million
euros ($10.6 million) this month for breaching disclosure rules.
LVMH, which plans to appeal the ruling, has said it did nothing
wrong after buying equity derivatives of Hermes shares in 2008.  LVMH, which this month agreed to pay  2 billion euros  for an
80 percent stake in Italian cashmere clothier Loro Piana SpA,
said today it doesn’t need to sell its Hermes stake to fuel
growth in other parts of its business.  “Time will tell,” Guiony said. “We are pretty pleased
with the performance of the Hermes business so there is no
particular pressure on our side.”  Hermes last week reported a  16 percent increase  in
quarterly revenue, excluding currency swings, as sales of its
Kelly handbags and other goods surged in  Asia  and the Americas.
LVMH yesterday reported second-quarter comparable revenue growth
of 9 percent, sending the shares up 4.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  