-- Wema Bank Nigeria Records Biggest Advance in Month: Lagos Mover
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2013-07-26T15:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/wema-bank-nigeria-heads-for-biggest-gain-in-month-lagos-mover.html
Wema Bank Plc (WEMABANK) , a Nigerian lender,
rose for the first time in seven days, gaining the most in one
month after saying it raised funds for an expansion and plans to
bolster its capital levels if it gets regulatory approval.  The  shares  advanced 9.2 percent to 1.07 naira in Lagos,
 Nigeria ’s commercial capital, the biggest advance since June 27.
About 4.6 million securities traded or 65 percent of the three-month daily average volume. The stock has more than doubled this
year compared with 32 percent rally in the  Nigerian Stock
Exchange All Share Index (NGSEINDX)  of 192 members.  The bank raised 40 billion naira ($249 million) in a sale
of stock to selected investors and plans to increase its Tier 2
capital levels, the company said today in an e-mailed response
to questions. Shareholders will be asked for approval at a
meeting on Aug. 16 and the amount of funds will be announced
after the country’s market regulator gives assent, according to
the lender.  “Investors anticipate the new capital will facilitate the
bank’s migration to a national bank and leading to better
performance,” David Adonri, chief executive officer of Lagos-based Lambeth Trust and Investment Co., said by phone.  Wema Bank, which operates as a regional lender mainly in
western Nigeria and in the capital, Abuja, said on March 15 it
would raise 35 billion naira to fund expansion to become a
national bank. The  Central Bank of Nigeria  introduced modified
licensing rules as part of reforms after a debt crisis in 2009
brought the industry to the verge of collapse. Lenders in
Nigeria are either licensed as holding companies operating local
and international units, or as national and regional banks.  The lender posted a loss of 1.8 billion naira for the nine
months through September last year, according to a Jan. 4
statement to the Lagos bourse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  