-- White House Shields Aid to Egypt by Avoiding Talk of Coup
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-07-26T20:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/white-house-shields-aid-to-egypt-by-avoiding-talk-of-coup.html
The Obama administration, in a move
that may protect U.S. aid to  Egypt , has concluded that it
doesn’t have to make a formal determination on whether the
ouster of President Mohamed Mursi was a coup, a State Department
official said.  Making such a determination, which potentially would have
required cutting off aid, wouldn’t be in the U.S. national
interest, State Department spokeswoman Jennifer Psaki said
today. Egypt is a stabilizing force in the region, and it’s to
the U.S.’s advantage to continue providing aid, she said.  “Our national security interests influence our policy as
it relates to aid with Egypt,” Psaki told reporters at a State
Department briefing. “We reviewed the legal obligations and
determined we did not need to make a determination one way or
the other.”  Mursi, Egypt’s first freely elected civilian president, was
ousted on July 3 by the military after days of protest by
opponents of his Islamist-backed government. President  Barack Obama  asked U.S. agencies that day to review whether Mursi’s
removal required halting about $1.5 billion in U.S. aid, of
which $1.3 billion is in the form of military assistance.  A U.S. law requires denying “any assistance to the
government of any country whose duly elected head of government
is deposed by a military coup d’etat or decree,” or a coup “in
which the military plays a decisive role.”  National Security  The administration concluded that “the continued provision
of assistance to Egypt, consistent with our law, is important to
our goal of advancing a responsible transition to democratic
governance and is consistent with our national security
interests,”Psaki said. “Egypt serves as a stabilizing pillar
of regional peace and security, and the  United States  has a
national security interest in a stable and successful democratic
transition in Egypt.”  Psaki didn’t provide a legal rationale for not making a
determination about whether a coup occurred. Her comments came
after Deputy Secretary of State  William Burns  briefed members of
Congress in closed sessions yesterday.  Psaki said the administration will work with U.S. lawmakers
“to determine how best to continue assistance to Egypt in a
manner that encourages Egypt’s interim government to quickly and
responsibly transition back to a stable, democratic, civilian-led and inclusive government.”  McCain Stance  Members of Congress had differed over whether U.S. aid
needed to be suspended. Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman
 Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, has said the law shouldn’t
force a cutoff of military assistance.  Arizona  Republican Senator  John McCain  said while he didn’t
want to suspend the aid, U.S. law was “very clear” that
assistance had to be withheld. Vermont Democratic Senator
 Patrick Leahy , chairman of the Senate Appropriations
subcommittee that oversees the State Department and foreign
operations, also has said the law clearly calls for a cutoff.  Burns’s visit to Capitol Hill came a day after the Defense
Department said it was delaying the planned delivery of four
F-16 fighter jets to Egypt because of the “fluid situation”
there after Mursi’s ouster.  Supporters of Mursi and his Muslim Brotherhood have held
daily protests since the army’s intervention that ousted him.
Almost 100 people have been killed in clashes, as the violence
undermines efforts by the new army-installed government to ease
tensions and revive the economy.  Street Protests  The Brotherhood has called Mursi’s removal a coup, demanded
his reinstatement and objected to efforts by the interim
government to forge a transition.  Egyptian judicial authorities today accused Mursi of
conspiring with the Palestinian militant group Hamas, the state-run Middle East  News Agency  reported. The allegations also
include attacks on security buildings, jailbreaks, murder and
abduction, MENA reported, saying Mursi would continue to be
detained for 15 days during the inquiry.  Thousands of supporters of the former president flocked to
Cairo’s Rabaa el-Adawiya square, while thousands of his
opponents gathered in  Tahrir Square , amid warnings the
continuation of more than a month of protests was dragging Egypt
deeper into conflict.  Mursi’s opponents were responding to a call by Egypt’s
military chief, Abdelfatah al-Seesi, for Egyptians to take to
the streets and give the military and police a broad mandate to
combat “violence” and “terrorism.” The Muslim Brotherhood
urged rallies today against Mursi’s ouster, putting the
Islamists on a collision course with the army.  Obama Concerns  “The Obama administration is concerned by any rhetoric
that inflames tensions and could possibly lead to more
violence,” White House spokesman  Josh Earnest  told reporters
traveling yesterday to  Florida  with Obama on Air Force One.  While Earnest didn’t address the coup designation directly,
he said “we’ve stated publicly that it is our view, it is the
view of the administration, that it’s not in the best interest
of the  United States of America  for us to make significant
changes to our assistance to Egypt at this point.”  The U.S. is “engaged in a number of conversations at a
number of different levels with Egyptian officials,” Earnest
said. “And part of that message is the reiteration of our view
that they should move expeditiously back in the direction of
democratically elected government.”  Egypt has been the second-largest recipient of U.S. foreign
aid since 1979, after  Israel , according to the  Congressional
Research Service .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  