-- Wipro Quarterly Profit Rises 2.5% on Outsourcing Demand
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-07-26T18:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/wipro-profit-rises-2-5-on-higher-outsourcing-demand.html
Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) ,  India ’s third-largest
software exporter, reported first-quarter profit rose 2.5
percent as demand for information-technology services increased.  Net income rose to 16.2 billion rupees ($275 million) in
the three months ended June, matching the median of 38
analysts’s estimate compiled by Bloomberg. The Bangalore-based
company posted sales of 97.3 billion rupees, that missed the
99.3 billion-rupee median of analysts’ estimates. Wipro’s
revenue from information-technology services matched the
forecast range it provided in April.  Billionaire Chairman  Azim Premji  said the company is seeing
higher confidence among its customers amid “positive
macroeconomic developments,” particularly in the U.S. -- its
biggest market. Wipro joins larger rival  Tata Consultancy
Services Ltd. (TCS)  in signaling higher demand for outsourced software
work by forecasting revenue from the business to rise as much as
$1.65 billion in the quarter ending September.  “The guidance is a significant jump over this quarter’s
expectations,” said Amar Mourya, a Mumbai-based analyst with
India Nivesh Securities. “That could lead to a re-rating and
revision in the full-year stock price” target, he said.  The forecast for IT revenue in the second quarter is based
on 57.24 rupees to a U.S. dollar, the company said in a
statement yesterday.  Meeting Forecast  Its revenue from IT services increased to $1.59 billion in
the quarter ended June, in line with its April forecast of
$1.575 billion to $1.61 billion for the period.  Shares of Wipro rose 1.5 percent to 381.95 rupees at the
close in Mumbai trading before the earnings announcement
yesterday. The stock has climbed 8.6 percent this year, compared
with a 1.7 percent advance in the S&P BSE Sensex.  Salary increases to its employees squeezed operating
margins in the quarter, according to Chief Financial Officer
Suresh Senapaty.  “We continue to maintain our sector underperformer call on
Wipro owing to its dismal performance and sustained
underperformace,” Rahul Jain, an analyst with Mumbai-based
Dolat Capital Market Pvt. said in a note yesterday. “We believe
that stock would deliver lower growth compared to peers.”  The company added 28 new customers in the quarter, it said.
Wipro added 1,469 people in the period, bringing the total
number of employees to 147,281.  “We are seeing a pickup in large deal closures which has
reflected in strong order book in the current quarter,” T.K. Kurien, chief executive officer, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  