-- Without Cohen, the Case Against SAC Is Lacking
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-26T15:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/without-cohen-the-case-against-sac-is-lacking.html
The U.S. government has spent seven
years and spared no effort investigating allegations of  insider
trading  at SAC Capital Advisors LP. This week’s announcement
that the company will be  prosecuted  on fraud charges, together
with a new civil action by the Securities and Exchange
Commission against the company’s owner,  Steven A. Cohen , sends
the message that the crime won’t be tolerated.  That’s a good message to send, but the authorities are
gambling nonetheless. It hasn’t escaped Wall Street’s attention
that Preet Bharara, the U.S. attorney bringing the action,
hasn’t charged Cohen himself -- not yet, anyway -- which
suggests a failure to find evidence directly implicating the man
at the top. Moreover, the 41-page criminal  indictment  isn’t as
impressive as the prosecutor could have wished.  The best evidence that the company tolerated and encouraged
insider trading is that six of SAC’s former employees have
already pleaded guilty to it; two others deny it and are
awaiting trial. That’s enough, Bharara will argue, to prove a
pattern of corruption. The trouble is, people who plead guilty
in exchange for leniency  lack credibility  and don’t always make
the best prosecution witnesses.  And some of the other material in the indictment looks a
bit thin. For instance, there is an e-mail to Cohen praising a
possible hire for having excellent contacts in his industry,
noting that the recruit has “a share house in the Hamptons”
with a senior executive. At trial, the government will surely
have to do better than that. Portfolio managers, the company
will argue, need to understand their industries, and frequent
contact with executives serves that legitimate purpose.  Perhaps the government’s strategy is still unfolding --
maybe a criminal prosecution of the company will persuade other
SAC managers (one in particular, who’s accused of a very large
fraud) to plead guilty and help the authorities pursue Cohen
himself.  For now, it’s good that charges are headed for a court that
will address the question of guilt, rather than toward a
settlement in which that issue is glided over in return for cash
-- which is how a previous action against SAC was resolved. The
usual reservation about a corporate prosecution, that it causes
too much collateral damage to innocent parties (the collapse of
Arthur Andersen LLP stands as the classic example), doesn’t
really apply in the case of a company with a relatively small
and conspicuously well-remunerated staff.  Ultimately, it can’t be ideal to leave Cohen out of the
prosecution. If his company is guilty as charged, an outcome
that leaves him to manage his billions in peace while
subordinates go to jail won’t look like justice.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 