-- Won Leads Gains in Asian Currencies This Week on Equity Inflows
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-07-26T03:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/won-leads-gains-in-asian-currencies-this-week-on-equity-inflows.html
South Korea ’s won led gains in Asian
currencies this week as international investors added to
holdings of the region’s stocks.  The won headed for a third weekly advance after data showed
the Korean economy  expanded  the most in more than two years in
the second quarter. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asian Dollar Index
rose 0.2 percent from July 19 as global funds bought $1.4
billion more stocks than they sold this week through yesterday
in South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand, exchange data show.  “Risk appetite has improved,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , an
economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in Singapore.
“People are coming back to this part of the region. There is
still a huge growth opportunity in Asia.”  The won strengthened 1 percent this week to 1,110.84 per
dollar as of 12:30 p.m. in  Seoul , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. India’s rupee appreciated 0.8 percent to 58.8575, the
Philippine peso climbed 0.2 percent to 43.28 and the  Taiwan
dollar  advanced 0.2 percent to NT$29.909.  Fund flows to  emerging markets  have increased after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this month the  U.S.
economy  needs “highly accommodative monetary policy for the
foreseeable future,” easing concern the central bank will scale
back asset purchases that have boosted dollar supply.  Stable Fundamentals  South Korea’s gross domestic product rose 1.1 percent in
the three months ended June 30 from the previous period, the
most since the first quarter of 2011, a central bank report
showed yesterday. The figures signal the economy is overcoming
the impact of a weak yen, with expansion still driven by
exports, Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said today, as a
separate report showed a gauge of  consumer confidence  in the
country held at a 13-month high in July.  “Stable fundamentals such as GDP growth and the current-account surplus should support the won,” said Son Eun Jeong, a
currency analyst at Woori Futures Co. in Seoul. “Fund inflows
to Korean stocks also turned around this week.”  South Korea’s economy will grow about 1 percent each
quarter in the second half, driven by a global recovery and
sustained monetary-policy stimulus,  Kwon Goohoon , a Seoul-based
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a research note
yesterday. The current account, the broadest measure of trade,
stood at a record surplus of $8.6 billion in May.  The rupee was set for a third weekly advance after the
central bank took steps to tighten cash supply to increase
support for the currency.  The  Reserve Bank  of India capped the amount lenders can
borrow in daily repurchase auctions at 0.5 percent of their
deposits, it said in a July 23 statement. The authority also
raised the daily balance requirement for lenders’ cash-reserve
ratios to 99 percent from 70 percent effective July 27.  Philippine Peso  The peso was poised for its biggest weekly gain in a month
after Moody’s Investors Service yesterday placed the nation on
review for investment grade.  “Philippine assets, especially the currency, should react
positively to the country’s sovereign rating being put on review
for possible upgrade by Moody’s,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, Hong Kong-based senior economist and strategist at Credit Agricole CIB,
wrote in a research note.  The Southeast Asian nation doesn’t need further stimulus as
domestic growth is strong, and the outlook for the global
economy suggests the use of caution in monetary policy, central
bank Governor Amando Tetangco said today in an interview with
Zeb Eckert on Bloomberg Television.  Elsewhere in Asia, China’s  yuan  rose 0.1 percent in the
past five days to 6.1330 per dollar. The Indonesian rupiah
weakened 1.8 percent to 10,260, the Malaysian ringgit dropped
0.3 percent to 3.2025 and the  Thai baht  lost 0.2 percent to
31.11, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  