-- Yankees Beat Rangers, Mets Top Braves to Split Four-Game Series
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-07-26T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/yankees-beat-rangers-mets-top-braves-to-split-four-game-series.html
Hiroki Kuroda pitched seven
scoreless innings as the New York Yankees won 2-0 to split a
four-game series at the  Texas  Rangers. The New York Mets won 7-4
to also split their series with the Atlanta Braves.  Brent Lillibridge and  Eduardo Nunez  drove in the runs at
Rangers Ballpark in Arlington, Texas, as the Yankees improved to
54-48, 6 1/2 games behind the division-leading Boston Red Sox in
the American League East. The Rangers dropped to 56-46 with
their fifth loss in seven games since the All-Star break.  Kuroda improved to 10-6 as he helped the Yankees log their
sixth shutout of the season, giving up six hits, striking out
three batters and walking one.  Mariano Rivera got his 33rd save of the Major League
Baseball season. Before the game, the Rangers presented Rivera,
baseball’s career leader with 641 saves, with a cowboy hat and
boots inscribed with the Yankees logo to commemorate his last
visit to the ballpark. Rivera, 43, has said he’ll retire at the
end of the season.  The Yankees took the lead on Lillibridge’s run-scoring
double in the sixth offDerek Holland (8-6), who pitched into
the eighth inning. Robinson Cano then scored in the eighth when
Nunez reached first on a fielder’s choice grounder.  At Citi Field in New York, John Buck drove in three runs as
the Mets topped the Braves (57-45) to improve to 45-53.  Zack Wheeler (4-1) got the win, giving up four runs on as
many hits in six innings of work.  A two-run homer by Atlanta’s Dan Uggla in the fourth and a
single shot by Freddie Freeman of the Braves in the sixth tied
the game 4-4.  The Mets then took the lead for good in the bottom of the
sixth with three runs, on a run-scoring single by Daniel Murphy,
who then scored on David Wright’s triple before Buck drove in
the last run with a double.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 