-- Thyssen Drops on Concern Sale of Steel Plants has Failed
-- B y   W e i x i n   Z h a   a n d   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-07-26T15:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/thyssen-drops-on-concern-sale-of-steel-plants-has-failed.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  fell the most in
four months after the the Wall Street Journal reported that
 Germany ’s biggest steelmaker failed to reach a deal on the sale
of a steel plant with Brazilian steelmaker CSN.  ThyssenKrupp  decreased  as much as 7.2 percent to 16.1
euros, the steepest intraday decline since March 19. The stock
was trading down 2.9 percent at 5:19 p.m. in  Frankfurt , valuing
the Essen, Germany-based company at 8.7 billion euros ($11.6
billion). Volume was 15 percent higher than the three-month
daily average.  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (CSNA3) ,  Brazil ’s third-largest
steelmaker, and ThyssenKrupp failed to reach deal as they
could’t agree on the price, the Wall Street Journal reported,
citing people familiar with the matter. The deal fell through on
a price difference of 385 million euros, the newspaper said. CSN
emerged as the leading bidder for the German company’s Brazilian
and U.S. steel plants, people with knowledge of the talks said
in May.  ThyssenKrupp said today that the status of the negotiations
hasn’t changed.  “We are in advanced negotiations with a leading bidder on
the disposal of Steel Americas,” the unit that’s being sold,
Stefan Ettwig, a spokesman at ThyssenKrupp, said by phone.  The 18-stock Bloomberg Europe Iron/Steel Index was little
changed.  ‘Big Setback’  “If the speculation turns out to be correct, this will be
a big setback for ThyssenKrupp,” Dirk Schlamp, a Frankfurt-based analyst at  DZ Bank , wrote today in a note. “A failure to
sell the steel assets could result in changes to current company
strategy and would be clearly very negative.”  Bjoern Voss, an analyst at M.M.Warburg in Hamburg, lowered
his rating on ThyssenKrupp shares to hold from buy, cutting his
price target to 18 euros from 19 euros, citing other risks such
as damage claims by German rail operators and price-fixing
charges by the German cartel office.  He said the amount of 385 million euros “appears too low”
to jeopardize a completion of the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weixin Zha in Frankfurt at 
 wzha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  