-- Yuan Sees Best Week Since May as Li Signals Will Shore Up Growth
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-07-26T08:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/yuan-sees-best-week-since-may-as-li-signals-will-shore-up-growth.html
China’s  yuan  posted its best weekly
gain since May after the government said it will prevent
economic growth from dipping below 7 percent as data showed
manufacturing contracted further in July.  Premier  Li Keqiang  was cited by local media this week as
saying the nation can’t let expansion fall lower than the
“bottom line” of 7 percent. Export growth will “recover” as
yuan appreciation slows and the global market improves,  Zhang
Liqun , a researcher with the State Council’s Development
Research Center, wrote in the People’s Daily today.  “Li’s remarks reassured investors that the government
won’t stay on the sidelines if growth decelerates too quickly,”
said  Daniel Chan , a wealth management director at Hong Kong-based China Silver Global Investment Consultant Ltd. “The
outlook for the yuan remains dim in the short term as export
growth could still be trending down.”  The yuan gained 0.1 percent to close at 6.1316 per dollar
this week in Shanghai after falling in the prior two weeks,
China Foreign Exchange Trade System prices showed. The currency
appreciated 0.05 percent today. It’s bucked a weakening trend in
Asia this year, rising 1.6 percent.  The People’s Bank of China raised the  reference rate  by
0.06 percent to 6.1720 per dollar. The onshore spot rate is
allowed to diverge a maximum 1 percent on either side of the
daily fixing. In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan gained
0.03 percent today to 6.1345 per dollar.  Trade Measures  One-month implied volatility in the onshore yuan, a measure
of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
fell 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 1.43 percent
during the five days.  A  preliminary  Purchasing Managers’ Index compiled by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics was at 47.7 in July, below
June’s final level of 48.2, according to a report this week.
Fifty is the dividing line between expansion and contraction.  The Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology  ordered
more than 1,400 companies in 19 industries to cut excess
production capacity this year in an effort to shift toward more
sustainable economic growth, it said in a statement yesterday.  China will release detailed measures to stabilize trade,
Ministry of Commerce spokesman Shen Danyang said at a briefing
in Beijing on July 25, without elaborating. Exports contracted
in June for the first time since January 2012, while economic
growth slowed to 7.5 percent in the second quarter.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.09 percent
today to 6.2765 per dollar, erasing this week’s losses. The
contracts traded at a 2.3 percent  discount  to the onshore rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  