-- Zynga Drops After Abandoning U.S. Online-Betting Plan
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-07-26T20:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-26/zynga-drops-after-abandoning-u-s-online-betting-plan.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , maker of the social-networking games “FarmVille” and “Texas HoldEm,” tumbled the
most in a year after abandoning plans to enter the online-gambling business in the U.S.  The shares  dropped  14 percent to $3.01 at the close in New
York, the biggest one-day decline since July 2012.  “While the company continues to evaluate its real-money
gaming products in the U.K. test, Zynga is making a focused
choice not to pursue a license for real-money gaming in the
U.S.,” the San Francisco-based company said yesterday in a
statement. The stock tumbled as low as $2.81.  The shares had surged 48 percent this year through
yesterday on optimism that Zynga could use Web betting to revive
growth amid a slump in gaming on  Facebook Inc.’s (FB)  network. Zynga
took preliminary steps to get a gambling license in  Nevada  last
year, working to enter a U.S. market for online betting that may
reach $7.4 billion a year by 2017,  according to  Manchester,
U.K.-based researcher H2 Gambling Capital.  “Zynga probably realized they’re not going to get one in
the near term,” said  Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush
Securities Inc. in  Los Angeles . “There’s a greater sense of
urgency on turning the business around.”  The company also forecast third-quarter sales and earnings
that fell short of analysts’ estimates as fewer users access its
titles on Facebook’s website.  Top Games  The third-quarter loss excluding some items will be 2 cents
to 5 cents a share on revenue of $175 million to $200 million,
Zynga said. Analysts on average had  estimated  a 2-cent loss on
sales of $216.2 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  At the end of the second quarter, Zynga had three top-10
titles on Facebook, down from seven a year earlier. Don Mattrick, who replaced founder  Mark Pincus  as chief executive
officer this month, is working to jump-start sales as users
shift their attention to mobile devices and more Facebook
members shun Zynga’s titles for games from competitors such as
King.com, maker of “Candy Crush Saga.”  “Zynga doesn’t have the same advantages on mobile as it
did on Facebook,” said  Arvind Bhatia , an analyst at Sterne Agee
& Leach Inc. in  Dallas , who has a neutral rating on the shares.
“It’s a tough platform.”  ‘Volatile’ Period  Mattrick, the former head of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
entertainment division, said Zynga expects two to four quarters
of “volatility” as he evaluates the business and product line
and develops a new strategy.  “We are missing out on the platform growth that Apple,
Google and Facebook are seeing,” Mattrick said on a conference
call yesterday. “We have the ability to break some bad habits
and get back to some good fundamentals.”  Before yesterday’s report, the shares advanced 6.7 percent
to $3.50 at the close in  New York , bolstered after Facebook said
the number of mobile users on its service expanded 51 percent to
819 million during the June quarter.  Zynga generates revenue by selling virtual goods within its
games -- for example, poker chips in “Texas HoldEm” or a
tractor in “FarmVille 2.”  The company said its second-quarter loss excluding some
items was 1 cent a share and revenue fell 31 percent to $230.7
million. Analysts on average had estimated a 4-cent loss on
sales of $219.2 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The net loss for the quarter narrowed to $15.8 million, or
2 cents a share, from a loss of $22.8 million, or 3 cents, a
year earlier.  Bookings, or the total value of virtual goods sold in the
quarter, fell 38 percent to $187.6 million, within the range of
the company’s forecast of $180 million to $190 million. Zynga’s
reported revenue includes virtual items sold before the quarter
and amortized over their expected life.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  