-- T-Mobile’s MetroPCS Merger Opponents Gaining Traction
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-04-01T20:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/t-mobile-s-metropcs-merger-opponents-gaining-traction.html
Opposition to T-Mobile USA Inc.’s
merger with  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , bolstered by two
shareholder-advisory firms spurning the deal, is gaining
momentum leading up to next week’s vote on the transaction.  P. Schoenfeld Asset Management LP, a MetroPCS investor that
has led a challenge to the deal, scheduled a webcast for April 4
to explain its position to other shareholders in the wireless
carrier. Institutional Shareholder Services and Glass, Lewis &
Co. came out against the transaction last week, while Egan-Jones
Proxy Services was in favor.  The decisions put more pressure on T-Mobile parent  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  to offer better terms than the current proposal.
MetroPCS shareholders are being asked to approve a reverse
merger creating a publicly traded company 74 percent owned by
the German phone carrier.  “DT has to sweeten,” said Jonathan Chaplin, an analyst at
New Street Research in New York. “DT would be crazy to let it
go to a vote. There’s no way they will win. They don’t have
enough votes to get a deal done.”  Critics suggest the merger will load up the new company
with too much  debt , while supporters say it’s the best way for
MetroPCS to compete. MetroPCS’s top shareholder, Paulson & Co.,
is against the deal, while Madison Dearborn Partners LLC, the
second-biggest, is for it, making the recommendations of the
advisory firms even more crucial since they influence how the
remaining investors will vote.  U.S. Comeback  “Two of the most highly respected corporate governance
advisory firms have now come out against the merger,” P.
Schoenfeld Asset Management said in a statement. “It is time
for PCS management to re-examine the terms of the proposed
transaction and other alternatives available to the company,
such as remaining as a stand-alone business.”  The proposal would unify the fourth- and fifth-largest U.S.
wireless carriers, and it represents a key part of Deutsche
Telekom’s effort to stage a U.S. comeback. Its T-Mobile division
ranks a distant No. 4 to Verizon Wireless,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S) , and it lost 2.1 million monthly contract
subscribers last year.  MetroPCS reiterated its plea to support the deal today,
saying the merger offers “both immediate and long-term
compelling economic value” to investors.  “The combined company will be the leading value carrier
in the U.S. wireless marketplace and will be able to compete
more effectively against the other national wireless
competitors,” it said in a letter to shareholders. The carrier
will also be in “a better position to participate in future
industry growth and consolidation,” MetroPCS said, signaling
that the merger could be a prelude to a larger deal.  ‘Clinched It’  Investors are slated to vote on the proposed combination on
April 12. Chaplin of New Street Research said his recent
meetings with shareholders convinced him it would be difficult
for MetroPCS to win approval for the deal. “And then the ISS
report pretty much clinched it,” he said. He has a neutral
rating on the mobile-phone carrier.  ISS said it opposed the deal because of unfavorable terms
and the potential for MetroPCS to thrive as an independent
company. MetroPCS could bolster its network by acquiring more
wireless airwaves and it may be the target of additional merger
offers in the future, the Rockville, Maryland-based firm said in
a report.  “The question remains, ‘Why now?’” ISS said. “Absent
merging with T-Mobile, PCS will still have $1.5 billion of  cash 
to dedicate to new spectrum in some way and could continue
operating as a stand-alone company.”  Wireless Coverage  While the merger is “strategically compelling,”
shareholders shouldn’t be satisfied with the agreement because
it “appears to undervalue MetroPCS’s contribution to the
combined company,” Glass Lewis said.  Egan-Jones  said the combination would increase the size and
quality of the carrier’s wireless coverage and help it respond
to growing demand for faster mobile-data services.  Deutsche Telekom remains convinced that the deal will
benefit both carriers’ shareholders and that it will be approved
on April 12, said Philipp Kornstaedt, a spokesman for the Bonn-
based company. He declined to say whether Deutsche Telekom may
offer improved terms to MetroPCS shareholders.  Heavy Burden  Deutsche Telekom,  Germany ’s biggest phone company, would
own almost three-quarters of the new business after making a
$1.5 billion cash payment to MetroPCS shareholders. The German
company also would loan $15 billion to the entity. The resulting
level of debt -- and the relatively high, 7 percent projected
interest rate -- would be a heavy burden, according to P.
Schoenfeld Asset Management and other opponents.  The way the deal is structured, the combined company would
be valued at $7 to $8 a share, Chaplin said. That compares with
MetroPCS’s closing share price of $11.05 today, up 1.4 percent
at the close in New York. Shares of the Richardson, Texas-based
company have fallen 19 percent since Oct. 2, the day before the
merger was announced, signaling that investors are unhappy with
the terms.  If Deutsche Telekom doesn’t improve its offer, MetroPCS may
have few additional options. The company said this week that no
other bidders have emerged willing to counter T-Mobile’s offer.  MetroPCS could go it alone, though it’s increasingly
difficult to compete with the major carriers. Analysts estimate
that the company’s revenue will drop 1 percent to $5.07 billion
this year, while net income slides 36 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  MetroPCS’s board  approved the merger and has urged a yes
vote so the carrier can mount a stronger challenge to the top
carriers -- even if the new company would still be relatively
small. The combination would create a carrier with 42.3 million
customers, less than half the size of Verizon Wireless or AT&T.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  