-- Colorado Prosecutors Seek Death Penalty in Movie Massacre
-- B y   J e f f   K a s s   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-04-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/accused-movie-shooter-holmes-to-learn-of-death-penalty-decision.html
James Holmes, accused of opening
fire in a Colorado movie theater in July and killing 12 people,
should face the death penalty, according to a prosecutor who
said the law requires him to be “minister of justice.”  Arapahoe County District Attorney  George Brauchler  informed
Judge William Sylvester of the decision at a two-minute hearing
yesterday in state court in Centennial, in suburban Denver. He
told the judge that members of his office talked to more than
800 victims and family members in the case and that he
personally spoke with 60 victims.  “For James Eagan Holmes, justice is death,” he said.  Holmes, with bushy hair and a long beard, wore a red
jumpsuit and glanced in the direction of his parents as he was
escorted into the courtroom yesterday.  Prosecutors last week rejected an offer from Holmes to
plead guilty and spend his life in prison without any chance of
parole in exchange for sparing him from the death penalty.  Sylvester ruled in January that the government established
probable cause that Holmes committed the crimes of which he’s
accused -- killing 12 people and injuring 70. Holmes, who
studied neuroscience at the University of  Colorado , Denver, is
charged with 166 counts, including murder and attempted murder.  At a January preliminary hearing, prosecutors presented
eyewitnesses and experts in weapons and explosives to describe
the July 20 attack and how Holmes allegedly prepared for it.
They also played phone calls to emergency services and showed
the judge pictures Holmes allegedly took of himself before the
shooting spree during a midnight screening of “The Dark Knight
Rises.”  Insanity Defense  Sylvester entered a not guilty plea at Holmes’s arraignment
on March 12 because Daniel King of the Colorado public
defender’s office told the judge that Holmes wasn’t ready to
plead. Previously, Holmes’s lawyers said they were considering
an insanity plea.  Sylvester yesterday reassigned the case to Judge Carlos A.
Samour Jr., who moved the trial back to Feb. 3 from Aug. 5,
saying it will last four months. Holmes’s lawyers sought a trial
date in the summer or fall of 2014, arguing it will last nine
months.  “They are trying to execute our client and we will do what
we need to do to save his life,” defense attorney Tamara Brady
said during the debate over scheduling. She said the case is
“the most important matter this court, this courthouse, will
ever hear.”  Offer Rejected  Prosecutors rejected Holmes’s offer to plead guilty
because, they said in a court filing, his attorneys have
“steadfastly and repeatedly” refused to provide information
required to consider the offer. Brauchler didn’t specify in the
filing what information his office was seeking.  There are currently  three men  on Colorado’s death row,
according to the state’s corrections department.  “Prosecutors in this state have rarely sought the death
penalty and have reserved this sentence for the cases they have
considered to be the worst of the worst,”  Karen Steinhauser , a
former Denver prosecutor now in private practice, said in an e-
mail. “Most people would probably agree that this case
constitutes the worst of the worst.”  Holmes will probably be the first defendant in a Colorado
capital case to challenge the constitutionality of the state’s
insanity-defense laws, and such a challenge will delay a trial,
Steinhauser said.  Truth Serum  Public defenders have already objected to a provision
blocking Holmes from calling witnesses to present evidence about
his mental condition if he doesn’t cooperate with court-
appointed psychiatrists. Under Colorado law, psychiatrists are
permitted to require Holmes to submit to interviews under the
influence of a so-called truth serum, according to Steinhauser.  Sylvester ruled March 11 that prosecutors may require
Holmes to submit to a “narcoanalytic interview” under the
influence of “medically appropriate” drugs. Such drugs can
enable a person to recall something they’re having difficulty
remembering, Steinhauser said.  The case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th Judicial
District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kass in state court in Centennial, Colorado,
at  kassj@msn.com ;
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 