-- Aetna Opposes Investor-Owned ERs as $1,500 Fees Charged
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-04-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/aetna-opposes-investor-owned-ers-as-1-500-fees-charged.html
After developing a chest cold and
breathing problems last year, Susan Alexander went to  First
Choice ER , an independent emergency room in League City,  Texas ,
drawn by its motto: “Real ER. Real Fast.”  Treatment was indeed speedy, about 20 minutes. It was also
real expensive, Alexander said. The bill was about $2,000, or as
much as five times what the 56-year-old nurse might have paid
for similar care at a doctor’s office. The charges included a
$1,518 “facility fee,” typically assessed by hospitals and
their ERs to support the space, services and equipment needed to
keep dozens to hundreds of beds available.  Yet First Choice looks nothing like a hospital. It sits in
a single-story commercial building that shares parking space
with a hair salon and an energy company. Alexander was left with
an out-of-pocket bill of about $700.  “I was astonished,” she said in a telephone interview.
“It’s a rip off.”  Freestanding ERs are among the fastest-growing areas of
medical care, often offering 24-hour service, minimal waits,
board-certified emergency specialists and complex testing
technology. Proponents say they provide a safety-valve for
overcrowded and understaffed hospital ERs. Critics worry they’ll
make care more expensive for those not seriously ill, adding to
national medical costs expected to rise to $3 trillion in 2014
and undercutting efforts by the 2010 health-care law to reduce
payments for individual medical services.  On Par  First Choice and other stand-alone ERs say consumers should
expect charges on par with those in hospitals because the
service it offers is similar.  “We’re an ER,” First Choice spokeswoman Heather Weimer
said in a telephone interview. “That means it will cost more.
We don’t try to hide it.”  Alexander’s case was “atypical,” according to Weimer. It
required a chest X-ray, steroid and breathing treatment and took
longer than 20 minutes, she said. First Choice had no control
over her out-of-pocket costs since that was based on what her
insurer covers, Weimer said.  Consumers and some health insurers have a different view.
Led by  Aetna Inc. (AET) , they say the facility fees charged by many of
the new ER aren’t justified and lack transparency. Hospitals
contend the facilities drain away the privately insured, high-
paying patients they need to survive. And many don’t treat the
uninsured or patients on government health plans, people
hospital emergency departments are required to serve.  State Legislation  That has prompted some states to require freestanding ERs
that don’t take Medicare and Medicaid to provide critical
treatment to anyone having a health emergency, regardless of the
ability to pay. Medicare is the U.S. health program for the
elderly and disabled. Medicaid is the joint U.S.-state plan for
the poor.  Some stand-alone ERs are owned by doctors and investors,
and others by hospitals, which do take Medicare and Medicaid and
are bound by a U.S. law that they treat all emergencies. Critics
say both often bill excessive fees even though they largely
treat patients with non-critical ailments such as the flu or
sore throats who could be seen in doctor’s offices or urgent
care centers -- practices designed to treat illnesses that
aren’t life-threatening.  “Physician and investor-owned ERs are skimming off the
cream-of-the-crop patients,” said  John Milne , chairman of
emergency medicine at  Swedish Medical Center , a nonprofit
health-care system in Issaquah, Washington. “Many are glorified
urgent-care centers, but they still bill ER charges.”  Price Differences  The differences in price are substantial, according to a
2011  report  for the Urgent Care Association of America.
Freestanding ERs charge as much as $500 per patient, versus $135
for urgent-care centers, the report found. At the same time,
patients seen in freestanding facilities are much less likely
than those going to hospital ERs to require complex care,
according to the report.  Unattached ERs and urgent-care centers transfer patients
needing critical care to hospitals, and freestanding ERs
typically have agreements with hospitals to take their patients.
Facility fees in hospitals are intended to help them survive as
insurers cut back payments for individual procedures. The fees
typically cover items such as safe food, clean rooms, nursing
care and administration costs, said Caroline Steinberg, vice
president of trends analysis at the American Hospital
Association in  Chicago .  “Hospitals couldn’t be open without being able to charge
facility fees,” Steinberg said by phone. “It’s much more
expensive to run a hospital than a physician’s office.”  Higher Expenses  Tim Seay, president of the Greater Houston Emergency
Physicians PLLC, which staffs four freestanding ERs in Texas,
counters that freestanding ERs also need to charge such fees.
The expenses of a stand-alone ER are more than 10 times those of
a doctor’s office or urgent-care center, with requirements for
equipment such as CT scanners, Seay said in an e-mail.  Hospitals “massage any message to prevent competition that
raises any health-care bar,” he said.  Aetna, the third-largest private Medicare insurer, has sued
at least three freestanding ERs and a hospital. In a lawsuit
filed in August and amended in December 2012 in Houston federal
court, Aetna said the ERs have “wrongfully submitted facility
fees.” The businesses have “masqueraded as hospital emergency
rooms, without a license or any of the associated overhead,”
Hartford, Connecticut-based Aetna said in the suit.  Sham Contract  The insurer contends that Rayford ER Management Co. LLC and
two other freestanding ERs entered into a “sham” management
contract with  Cleveland  Imaging and Surgical Hospital LLC in
Cleveland, Texas. The ERs began seeking facility fees using the
hospital’s tax identification number as a “front,” according
to the lawsuit. Aetna has paid the three ERs almost $6 million,
according to the complaint.  Larry Thompson, a lawyer at  Lorance & Thompson, P.C . in
Houston, represents the stand-alone emergency departments. They
don’t need to be licensed by the state because of legitimate
agreements with the hospital, he said.  “They are emergency departments, they bill as emergency
departments, but because they’re not on a hospital campus, Aetna
says they want their money back,” Thompson said by phone.
“They’re picking on the little guys.”  Humana Inc. (HUM) , the second-biggest private Medicare insurer,
and not party to the Aetna lawsuit, said in a statement that
it’s concerned patients don’t understand the cost differential
between freestanding ERs and urgent care centers.  Dog Bite  That’s the situation of 52-year-old Diane MacQuoid, a
retiree from a manufacturing distribution business. She said she
was charged more than $1,300 -- including a $625 facility fee --
for treatment of a dog bite at a  First Choice ER  in Humble,
Texas. She said she is paying $655 out-of-pocket.  “Nobody informed me there was a facility fee,” MacQuoid
said. “There are clinics I could have gone to a mile away. It’s
excessive. That could be someone’s grocery bill for months.”  First Choice’s website includes an explanation of its fees.
It uses “a point system based on procedures performed, patient
acuity, potential liability and the complexity of the
physician/patient interaction.”  Weimer, the First Choice spokeswoman, said MacQuoid’s out-
of-pocket expense was high because her insurance deductible
wasn’t met for the year. MacQuoid’s and Susan Alexander’s cases
reflect the need for consumers to be better educated about how
emergency departments are different than urgent care, Weimer
said.  Texas Law  Texas passed a law in 2009 requiring licensed stand-alone
ERs to provide whatever treatment is needed to ensure patients
are stabilized, which generally means they can be safely
transferred to a hospital, regardless of their ability to pay.
The state also has rules governing hours of operation and
required equipment. As of Feb. 12, Texas had 56 licensed, stand-
alone ERs, according to the state’s health services department.  At least 16 states have laws allowing freestanding ERs,
with varying licensing and operational guidelines, according to
the American College of Emergency Physicians, or ACEP, in
Washington.  Delaware  doesn’t restrict who can own stand-alone
ERs and requires that they provide service 24 hours a day,
according to ACEP.  Rhode Island  doesn’t require they be open
around the clock and  Idaho  says they must be owned by a hospital
with a dedicated emergency department of its own.  Forty-five states now have freestanding ERs owned by
hospitals, led by Ohio with 29, Texas with 26, and  Mississippi 
with 20, according to the American Hospital Association.  Hospital-owned ERs shouldn’t be lumped in with other
facilities, said Trevor Fetter, chief executive officer of  Tenet
Healthcare Corp., (THC)  the third-biggest publicly traded U.S.
hospital chain.  Freeing Capacity  ERs owned by hospitals, he said, are indistinguishable from
those located inside the main facility and they help keep the
medical centers on an even financial keel. Building a hospital
may cost $130 million, he said, versus $5 million or $10 million
for one of Tenet’s freestanding ERs. Tenet has four such
facilities, all in Texas, that the Dallas-based company says
charge the same fees as those located inside a hospital.  “Years ago, everything happened at the hospital,” he said
in an interview Tenet’s Dallas headquarters. The trend toward
stand-alone ERs “is freeing up capacity at the hospital.”  The case is Aetna Life Insurance Co. v. Cleveland Imaging
and Surgical Hospital LLC 4:12-cv-02451, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in  Washington  at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  