-- Airlines Rejected by Top Court on Price Advertising Rules
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-04-01T13:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/airlines-rejected-by-top-court-on-price-advertising-rules.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  turned away
an airline-industry challenge to federal requirements that
carriers display the total cost of a ticket more prominently
than the pretax price on web pages and in advertisements.  The justices today left intact Transportation Department
rules that were put in place last year to reduce consumer
confusion about ticket charges. Airlines said the rules violate
speech rights by preventing companies from emphasizing the impact
of fees and taxes.  The department is trying to block companies “from drawing
clear and conspicuous attention to truthful information about
the significant tax burden on airline tickets, at a time when
the administration is pushing to raise those taxes even
higher,”  Spirit Airlines Inc. (SAVE) ,  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  and
Allegiant Air LLC argued in court papers.  The Supreme Court under Chief Justice  John Roberts  has
backed corporate speech rights in other contexts, striking down
restrictions on violent video games, pharmaceutical marketing
and political spending.  The court also let stand a Transportation Department
requirement that airlines either allow penalty-free cancellation
of reservations for 24 hours or let customers hold seats for a
day without payment. The airlines said the rules amount to re-
regulation of the industry.  A federal appeals court upheld the rules last year, calling
them a legitimate use of the department’s power to regulate
deceptive and unfair industry trade practices. President  Barack Obama ’s administration urged the justices not to hear the
appeal.  Consumer Protection  “The airline advertising rule is a quintessential
consumer-protection regulation,” U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli argued in court papers. “The government’s substantial
interest in ensuring that consumers receive accurate information
about air fares is clearly and directly advanced by a regulation
requiring that the total, final price be the most prominent.”  The Obama administration said in 2010 that it planned to
start enforcing a longstanding requirement that airlines
advertise only the total cost of a ticket. Under the
Transportation Department’s current policy, airlines that list
taxes and fees separately must use a smaller type size and can’t
put those costs at the top of the page.  The case is Spirit v. United States Department of
Transportation, 12-656.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  