-- Majority of House Members Get Education on Immigration
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-04-01T15:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/majority-of-house-members-get-education-on-immigration.html
The last time the  U.S. Congress 
considered a broad revision to immigration laws was in 2007,
when more than half of today’s House Republicans weren’t even
elected.  That lack of experience explains why House leaders are
taking a slower approach than Senate lawmakers on an issue that
could roil a party base divided on providing a path to
citizenship to the 11 million undocumented residents in the U.S.  The leadership is hosting “listening sessions” in the
office of House Majority Whip  Kevin McCarthy , a  California 
Republican. With a wall-sized rendering of President George Washington’s Delaware River crossing in the room, lawmakers
gathered last month for a power-point presentation on current
immigration law and the government’s visa programs.  One of the most surprising notions for attendees was the
fact that about 40 percent of undocumented immigrants in the
U.S. overstayed their visas rather than illegally crossing the
border, according to a leadership aide familiar with the
meetings who asked not to be identified to discuss details.  “What I found is that for most people that’s not an issue
that they’ve dealt with, and it’s very complicated,” said
Representative Mario Diaz-Balart, a Florida Republican and a
member of a House bipartisan group working on an immigration
rewrite proposal. “You have dozens of different visas,
different categories, most of it broken.”  June Legislation  While a bipartisan group of senators is expected to unveil
a legislative proposal next week, the House probably won’t take
up a measure until June. A small group of Republican and
Democratic House members are meeting privately to develop a set
of principles, although they are keeping their work private to
prevent leaks from derailing it.  The listening sessions focus on the challenges that face
companies and immigrants seeking  work . Among the business
sectors lobbying for a new immigration law are large
agricultural interests and technology companies including Google
Inc. and Facebook Inc.  The motivation for action stems from the Nov. 6 election
results.  Exit polls of voters showed President  Barack Obama  won 71
percent of Hispanics, the fastest growing electoral bloc. That
translated to a 44-percentage-point advantage over Republican
nominee  Mitt Romney , who won just 27 percent of the Hispanic
vote -- down from 31 percent for the party’s presidential ticket
in 2008, 44 percent in 2004 and 35 percent in 2000.  Republican Committee  To become more competitive, the  Republican National
Committee  and other leaders are urging their elected officials
to engage in the immigration debate to demonstrate sensitivity
on an issue important to Latinos.  Still, it’s not as much of an electoral concern for the
party’s House caucus because many of their districts have larger
Caucasian majorities as a result of 2010 redistricting, a
process dominated by Republican-held state legislatures.  The average district of a House Republican was 75 percent
non-Hispanic white after redistricting and the 2012 elections,
up from 73 percent before, according to  David Wasserman , House
editor for the nonpartisan Cook Political Report.  “House Republicans have done a remarkable job of
sequestering Democrats into the minority” of House seats,
Wasserman said. “In the process they’ve also reduced their own
incentive to reach out to groups their party badly needs to do a
better job of courting if it wants to stay relevant.”  Hispanic Voters  Unlike the Senate, where Republican members from such
states as  Texas  and  Arizona  are accustomed to courting Hispanic
voters, many House members rarely need to. Combined with the
fact that about 125 of the 232 House Republicans, or 54 percent,
were elected after the last major immigration debate, leaders
concluded that an education effort had to come first.  James Lankford, head of the Republican Policy Committee,
said the listening sessions aren’t “designed to create some
sort of consensus around an idea, they are designed to lay out
the problems as we face them.”  There have been two meetings, with about 50 members
combined, and three more are planned. The focus ranges from
border security to the need to attract talent in science,
technology, engineering and mathematics, Lankford said. “Some
people focus on family members not being able to get in, some
people focus on the lottery system” for visas, he said.  ‘Big Shift’  The briefings are being led by Virginia Republican Bob Goodlatte, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee; South
Carolina Republican Trey Gowdy, who heads the panel’s
immigration subcommittee; and Lankford, an Oklahoma Republican.  The “big shift” among Republicans is that many now
“believe that there should be some form of legalization” for
undocumented immigrants, said Muzaffar Chishti, director of the
Migration Policy Institute’s office at the  New York  University
School of Law.  Below that broad consensus, divisions remain.  Chishti said Republicans are split on whether to provide
legal status or a path to citizenship, which Republican
opponents label as “amnesty.” More than 60 percent of
Americans support providing U.S. citizenship, according to a
 Brookings Institution  and Public Religion Research Institute
 poll  released March 21. Among Republicans, 53 percent support
that proposal, while 47 percent oppose it.  Guest Workers  In the House, there’s a faction that wants to tie U.S.
residency to high-education degrees. And there are those who
wouldn’t support changes without a revised guest-worker program
-- an issue only recently resolved among a group of senators.  Labor leaders are pressing for stricter limits on higher
wages for low-skilled workers while the business community
resists those requirements and wants more flexibility to meet
demand. Labor and business leaders reached a tentative accord
with a bipartisan group of senators on the issue March 29.  “Every major policy issue has been resolved,” Senator
 Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat and member of the Senate’s
eight-person negotiating team, said on yesterday’s “Meet the
Press” on NBC. While there’s no final agreement yet, Schumer
said he expected the bill to reach the Senate Judiciary
Committee in April and the full Senate in May.  “There is a universal recognition that the system is
absolutely broken,” Diaz-Balart said in an interview. “The
most important thing is not doing it fast, it’s doing it right.
We’re trying to make sure that we have something that’s
reasonable, that’s real, that fixes what’s broken and that can
get bipartisan support.”  House Negotiators  In addition to Diaz-Balart, the House negotiators include
Republicans  John Carter  and Sam Johnson of Texas and Raul Labrador of  Idaho , along with Democrats Zoe Lofgren and  Xavier Becerra  of California, Luis Gutierrez of  Illinois  and John Yarmuth of  Kentucky .  “We’ve really resolved all of the truly contentious
issues, so now it’s a lot of detail work and some loose ends,”
Yarmuth said March 27 on  MSNBC . The group is in agreement on how
to ensure employers hire “only legal residents” and
determining “who’s legal and who’s not.” The group also has an
understanding on the guest-worker program, he said.  Labrador is the group’s barometer on how far Republicans
aligned with the anti-tax Tea Party movement may go on the
issue. He endorsed a plan by Kentucky Senator Rand Paul, another
Tea Party ally, which called for giving legal status to
undocumented immigrants after Congress verifies improved border
security.  ‘Special Pathway’  “That is something that many conservatives in the House
will support,” Labrador said. “It has to be something in my
opinion that does not lead to a special pathway to citizenship
but does allow the 11 million people that are here illegally to
come out of the shadows and become legal.”  House Democrats  are more unified on providing undocumented
immigrants a pathway to citizenship, according to Chishti of the
Migration Policy Institute. That could push Republican leaders
to deliver more of its members to get a bill without such a path
through the House.  Gutierrez, the lead Democratic negotiator in the House,
last month signaled flexibility on the guest-worker issue.  “It is an issue that we need to resolve, it is a thorny
issue” for Democrats, he told reporters at a March 19 breakfast
sponsored by the Christian Science Monitor. “You cannot fix our
broken immigration system unless you figure out a way to supply
the workforce needs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  