-- Amazon-Overstock, Squawk Box Case, SAC Accord: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n   a n d   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-04-01T12:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/amazon-overstock-squawk-box-case-sac-accord-compliance.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s biggest
online retailer, and discount Internet seller  Overstock.com Inc. (OSTK) 
lost a challenge to New York’s Internet sales tax law as the
state’s highest court rejected their arguments that it was
unconstitutional.  Amazon, based in Seattle, and Overstock, based in Salt Lake
City, sued the state’s Department of Taxation and Finance
separately in 2008, seeking to overturn a law requiring
retailers to pay taxes if they solicit business in New York
through a link to a website.  The companies argued that the law violated the Commerce
Clause of the U.S. Constitution by subjecting online retailers
without a physical presence in the state to sales and
compensating use taxes. It violated the Due Process Clause by
“creating an irrational, irrebuttable presumption of
solicitation of business within the state,” they said.  Justice Eileen Bransten dismissed the suits in January
2009. An appeals court in Manhattan affirmed her rulings in
2010, and the state  Court of Appeals  agreed on March 28, saying
the companies “established an in-state sales force” through
agreements with affiliates who received commissions for posting
links on their websites directing users to Amazon.com or
Overstock.com.  “If a vendor is paying New York residents to actively
solicit business in this state, there is no reason why that
vendor should not shoulder the appropriate tax burden,” Chief
Judge Jonathan Lippman wrote in a majority decision.  The decision affirms New York’s approach to “ensure fair
tax administration for both brick-and-mortar and Internet-based
businesses,” the state’s commissioner of taxation and finance,
Thomas H. Mattox, said in a statement.  The ruling conflicts with U.S. Supreme Court precedents and
with decisions by other state courts, Amazon spokesman Ty Rogers
said in an e-mail.  “Given the confusion reflected by this decision, we
believe the best way to effectively fix this problem is through
passage of the Marketplace Fairness Act by Congress, which
Amazon strongly supports,” Rogers said.  Overstock will probably appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court as
Colorado and Illinois state courts have found similar laws
violated the Constitution, said Jonathan Johnson, the company’s
acting chief executive officer. Eight states other than New York
have passed similar laws, “the chief effect of which has been
to put many Internet advertisers out of business,” Johnson said
in a statement.  “We’re disappointed in the ruling but are confident that
the New York law is unconstitutional,” Johnson said in a
telephone interview. “We will very likely file to have it heard
by the U.S. Supreme Court since there are other states that on
almost the same law have ruled the opposite way.”  The cases are Amazon.com LLC v. Department of Taxation,
601247/2008, and Overstock.com v. New York State, 107581/2008,
New York State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  All 6 Charged in Squawk-Box Case Made Deals, Prosecutors Say  Six men charged in a scheme to tip off traders to
communications on internal brokerage “squawk boxes” reached
deferred-prosecution agreements, the government said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  James McMahon  announced the deals
March 28 in Brooklyn, New York, federal court, marking the end
of a seven-year-long effort by the  Justice Department  to
prosecute “front-running,” or trading ahead of market-moving
orders.  In the case, former brokers at Merrill Lynch & Co.,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Smith Barney
were accused of conspiring with employees at day-trading firm
 A.B. Watley Group Inc. (ABWG)  to use order information transmitted on
“squawk boxes” for front-running.  The deals were reached after a Manhattan federal appeals
court reversed the men’s convictions in August, finding that
prosecutors had withheld critical evidence.  “The government has entered into deferred prosecution
agreements with each of the six defendants,” McMahon said March
28 to U.S. District Judge John Gleeson. Under the deals, the men
face waiting periods ranging from six months to five years when
the charges against them could be revived if they engage in
other crimes.  The charges would eventually be dropped if defendants meet
the conditions of their agreements, attorneys said. Some
defendants face other conditions under separate deals reached
earlier with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The men were first tried in 2007 on  securities fraud ,
conspiracy and other charges. A jury acquitted them of 20
separate securities fraud charges, remained hung on a conspiracy
charge and convicted one of the defendants, former Merrill
broker Timothy O’Connell of witness tampering and making a false
statement, according to the appeals court’s ruling.  In a second trial in 2009, a jury found the men guilty of
conspiracy to commit honest services and property fraud,
according to the ruling.  The appeals court said that prosecutors failed to disclose
until after the trial 30 deposition transcripts taken by the
SEC, some of which would have supported the defense of ex-
Merrill Lynch and Smith Barney broker Kenneth Mahaffy Jr. and
others. Turning over the materials was required under the U.S.
Supreme Court’s ruling in Brady v. Maryland, the appeals court
found.  “The government should have dismissed the case,” Andrew
J. Frisch, a lawyer for Mahaffy, said after the brief hearing.  The case is U.S. v. Mahaffy, 1:05-cr-00613, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  SAC Capital Siege by U.S. Seen Slowing With Steinberg Evidence  SAC Capital Advisors LP may seem under siege by federal
prosecutors, with the steady drumbeat of indictments over the
past few years and the invariable 6 a.m. knock at the door as
one employee after another meets agents of the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation’s New York office.  With the insider trading indictment last week of SAC fund
manager Michael Steinberg, a 16-year veteran of the firm,
prosecutors have reached the inner circle of founder  Steven A.
Cohen . After the arrest last year of SAC portfolio manager
Mathew Martoma, and the tying of seven other current or former
SAC traders or analysts to illegal trades, prosecutors are seen
by some as looking to cut deals in pursuit of the $15 billion
hedge fund itself -- and Cohen.  But looks can be deceiving. While Martoma’s case involves
direct communication with Cohen over health stocks, Steinberg’s
technology stock case is more indirect, and the judge presiding
over it said the indictment doesn’t show much new evidence of
malfeasance at the hedge fund. Following the $616 million U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission settlement with SAC last
month, it may very well be that the government won’t seek to go
much higher up SAC’s ladder.  Still, the SEC has said that its investigation is
continuing, and the Justice Department has made no announcement
that its five-years of scrutinizing  hedge funds  led by SAC was
winding down.  Cohen, 56, hasn’t been charged or sued by the government.
Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Stamford, Connecticut-based
SAC, and  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Bharara, declined to
comment.  Steinberg, who turns 41 this week, was taken into custody
March 29 at his Manhattan home when FBI agents appeared at his
door at 6 a.m. The most senior SAC official to be charged, he
was indicted by a federal grand jury March 28 on five counts of
conspiracy and securities fraud. Part of SAC’s Sigma Capital
Management unit, he has been with SAC since 1997.  Steinberg traded on insider tips obtained from convicted
SAC technology analyst Jon Horvath, according to his indictment.  One of 15 SAC portfolio managers handling technology, media
and telecommunications stocks before he was placed on leave last
year, a person familiar with the matter said, Steinberg faces as
long as 20 years in prison if convicted.  Steinberg pleaded not guilty during a half-hour court
hearing March 29.  Barry Berke, Steinberg’s lawyer, rejected the charges and
said his client traded “based on detailed analysis as well as
information that he understood had been properly obtained.”  The case is U.S. v. Steinberg, 12-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Separately, SAC will have to wait to learn if its $602
million insider trading settlement with the SEC can go forward,
after a Manhattan judge raised questions over a provision that
allows the hedge fund to avoid admitting it did anything wrong.  SAC and the agency asked U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero 
on March 28 to approve the agreement, which is the SEC’s biggest
insider-trading settlement. It would resolve SEC claims that SAC
and its CR Intrinsic Investors LLC unit profited from illegal
tips about an Alzheimer’s drug received by a former portfolio
manager, Mathew Martoma.  At the hearing, Marrero expressed concern about the SEC’s
use of the “neither admit nor deny” provision, which was
questioned by a different judge who rejected an SEC settlement
with Citigroup Inc. in 2011. Marrero said he may condition
approval of the SAC deal on a ruling in the Citigroup case by
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York. Marrero also asked what
would happen if Martoma, who has pleaded not guilty to related
criminal charges, is convicted.  Charles Riely, a lawyer for the SEC, argued that the
Citigroup appeal doesn’t concern the question whether a judge
may approve a settlement with such a provision. He said the
judge is free to approve the deal without regard to the
Citigroup appeal.  “We do not see the no-admit, no-deny language as an
unsettled question,” Riely said.  “The ground is shaking, let’s admit that,” said Marrero.
“This court is in the same position that Judge Rakoff was some
months ago.”  In the Citigroup case, U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in
Manhattan criticized the SEC’s policy of allowing settlements
that permit defendants to neither admit nor deny the agency’s
allegations, ruling that Citigroup’s $285 million SEC settlement
couldn’t go forward because the deal wasn’t in the public
interest. The appeals court heard arguments in the case in
February.  Marrero questioned why SAC, the Stamford, Connecticut-based
hedge fund run by billionaire Steven A. Cohen, is willing to pay
more than $600 million to settle, rather than $1 million in
legal costs to defend itself, “if it truly did nothing wrong.”
He said he isn’t questioning the amount of the settlement.  SAC settled “because we have a business to run and we
don’t want to have this case hanging over our heads for years,”
Martin Klotz, a lawyer representing the firm, told Marrero.
“And we want to put this behind us.”  Jonathan Gasthalter, an SAC spokesman who works for Sard
Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment on the hearing.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. CR
Intrinsic Investors LLC, 12-cv-08466, and the criminal case is
U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-02985, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  FSA to Press Banks, Others on Assisting SMEs, Nikkei Says  Japan’s Financial Services Agency plans audits of private
financial institutions to gauge support for struggling small and
medium-size enterprises, Nikkei reported, without citing anyone.  The audits, which are to include credit unions and banks,
are planned for May and June.  Compliance Policy  Sifma Urges End to Some Data Systems as Audit Trail Approaches  U.S. regulators implementing a sweeping project to monitor
securities trading should discard overlapping systems designed
to capture similar data, according to a paper published by the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association.  The Securities and Exchange Commission should end its
Electronic Blue Sheets system to collect trading information
from brokers and its Large Trader Reporting system, approved in
2011 as a way to compile data on the 300 biggest market
participants, Sifma said in a  paper  published on its website
March 28. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which
oversees almost 4,300 brokers, should also end its Order Audit
Trail System, in place since the late 1990s, Sifma said.  The planned consolidated audit trail, one of former SEC
Chairman  Mary Schapiro ’s main projects, will track all
securities orders and trades in the U.S. from start to
completion and give the agency and other regulators a system to
monitor markets, pursue abusive behavior and reconstruct
crashes. The exchanges and Finra said in November they would
submit the plan in December 2013, eight months later than
initially expected.  The amount of money it will take to comply with overlapping
reporting requirements “not only complicates the task of sound
regulation, but also serves as a tax on the industry that can
increase costs to the investing public, reduce shareholder value
and reduce the competitiveness of U.S. markets,” Sifma wrote in
the report, which it co-wrote with International Business
Machines Corp., a consultant engaged for the study.  The trade group said it supports the construction of a
consolidated audit trail.  In the Courts  BofA, Societe Generale Appeal MBIA Win in Restructuring Case  Bank of America Corp.  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  appealed a
judge’s decision upholding regulatory approval of bond insurer
 MBIA Inc. (MBI) ’s 2009 restructuring, which they say harmed them as
policyholders.  New York state Justice Barbara Kapnick was wrong when she
dismissed a lawsuit by the banks seeking to reverse approval by
the state insurance regulator, they said in papers filed March
28.  The trial court erred in not annulling the approval because
it “was arbitrary and capricious and an abuse of discretion,”
they said.  In 2009, New York Insurance Department Superintendent  Eric
Dinallo  approved the split, allowing MBIA to move the company’s
guarantees on state and municipal bonds out of subsidiary MBIA
Insurance Corp., which guaranteed some of Wall Street’s most
toxic mortgage debt.  The banks said during a month of oral arguments last year
that the approval was based on inaccurate and incomplete
information provided by Armonk, New York-based MBIA. They say
the split exposed them to losses as holders of financial-
guaranty policies by siphoning more than $5 billion in assets
from MBIA Insurance.  In a March 4 decision, Kapnick dismissed the banks’
lawsuit, which was brought under New York law allowing court
challenges to state agency decisions.  Spokesmen for MBIA and the New York Department of Financial
Services, which combines the functions of the state’s banking
and insurance regulators, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails
seeking comment on the appeal.  The case is ABN Amro Bank NV v. Dinallo, 601846-2009, New
York State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  Gardner Denver Sued by Investor Over $3.7 Billion KKR Deal  Gardner Denver Inc. (GDI)  was sued by an investor claiming  KKR &
Co. (KKR) ’s planned $3.7 billion buyout undervalues the industrial-
equipment maker.  Gardner Denver directors breached their fiduciary duties by
accepting an insufficient offer that furthers the interests of a
majority stakeholder, investor Daniel White said in a complaint
filed March 27 in Delaware Chancery Court. White blamed the
proposed deal on pressure from ValueAct Holdings LP, the
company’s third-largest investor. ValueAct isn’t named as a
defendant in the case.  The sales process “was being run in an unnecessarily
hurried fashion which deprived the board of the opportunity to
make a fully informed decision and ultimately favored KKR’s
offer,” White said in his complaint.  KKR, the New York-based private-equity firm, announced
March 8 that it would pay $76 a share for Wayne, Pennsylvania-
based Gardner Denver after raising its offer from $75 a share.
The deal, expected to close in the third quarter, is valued at
$3.9 billion including the assumption of Gardner Denver’s debt.  Vikram Kini, a Gardner Denver spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to a call seeking comment on the complaint.  The case is White v. Larsen, CA8439, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  Speeches and Interviews  Cordray Says Consumer Complaint Data Can Aid Financial Companies  Financial services companies should use the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau’s complaint database to head off
potential lawsuits instead of objecting to its public release,
the director of the agency said March 28.  “If they want to do so, they can use this information to
improve their customer service and their general practices,”
 Richard Cordray  said in a  speech  in Des Moines, Iowa. “Data can
help them detect regulatory risks and address problems before
they are faced with potential enforcement action or private
litigation.”  The agency held a hearing in Des Moines March 28 on its
consumer complaint system, which has been criticized by the
industry for tarnishing respectable brands by publicizing data
on complaints that may not be valid.  The bureau was created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank law to
protect consumers from abusive financial practices. It
supervises major banks such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  US
Bancorp (USB) , and non-bank firms like payday lenders, credit bureaus
and debt collectors.  Last week, the CFPB expanded the body of published data on
consumer complaints from about 19,000 entries to more than
90,000 on mortgages, student loans, checking accounts and other
consumer products. It had previously only published data on
credit card complaints.  Cordray rejected the industry’s criticism of the data’s
impact on their reputations.  Comings and Goings  FSA Chairman Turner to Join Soros Think Tank, Telegraph Says  Adair Turner , the Financial Services Authority chairman,
will join the board of the New York-based  Institute for New
Economic Thinking , founded by billionaire investor  George Soros ,
the Sunday Telegraph reported.  Turner is stepping down from his FSA role as the agency
splits into two, the newspaper reported.  An unnamed FSA spokesman confirmed Turner’s appointment,
according to the paper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  