-- AMC’s ‘Walking Dead’ Finale Draws 12.4 Million Viewers
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-04-02T00:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/amc-s-walking-dead-finale-draws-12-4-million-viewers.html
AMC’s “The Walking Dead” drew a
series record of 12.4 million viewers last night to its third-
season finale, making it the most-watched entertainment show on
broadcast and cable for the evening.  The program attracted 8.1 million viewers ages 18 to 49, a
group targeted by advertisers, New York-based  AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX) 
said today in an e-mailed statement. “The Walking Dead” is the
most-watched show on TV among that demographic.  The “Walking Dead” ratings will lift advertising sales
and fees from pay-TV systems for AMC,  Benjamin Mogil , an analyst
at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., wrote today in a report. Since the
show began in September, AMC’s prime-time audience has climbed
7.3 percent and by 21 percent in the advertiser-targeted group,
according to Nielsen data. Across basic cable, 18-to-49-year-old
viewership has slid 3.1 percent this season.  “This continues to bode well for both first-quarter 2013
advertising and overall affiliate carriage discussions,” wrote
Mogil, who rates the shares buy. Mogil forecasts AMC’s first
quarter ad revenue will climb 4 percent.  The “Walking Dead’” audience will rise another 3 million
viewers once three days of DVR viewing is added,the network
said. AMC will begin airing the sixth season of “Mad Men” on
April 7 with a two-hour episode.  AMC Networks  fell  2.2 percent to $61.86 at the close in  New
York . The stock has climbed 25 percent this year.  Cable’s Night  The ratings victory capped a night of big audiences on
 cable television .  HBO ’s “Game of Thrones” drew a series record 4.4 million
viewers to the start of the show’s third season, according to
Time Warner Inc.’s premium cable channel. The audience rose 13
percent from the second season’s premiere and exceeded the
previous record of 4.2 million, set in the finale,  New York- 
based HBO said today in an e-mailed statement.  On History, the two-hour finale of  Mark Burnett ’s “The
Bible” drew 11.7 million viewers, a 14 percent gain from last
week’s episode, the network said in an e-mailed statement.
History is part of A&E Television Networks LLC, a joint venture
of Walt Disney Co. and Hearst Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  