-- American Airlines, Orbitz Settle Flight-Data Dispute
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-04-01T15:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/american-airlines-orbitz-settle-flight-data-dispute.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American Airlines and
 Orbitz Worldwide (OWW)  LLC settled their litigation over competing
electronic flight-data systems.  The airline and the online travel reservation service
issued a joint statement today saying they had resolved lawsuits
between them. Terms of the agreement weren’t disclosed.  Orbitz, based in Chicago, was the last remaining defendant
in a lawsuit filed by American in federal court in Fort Worth,
 Texas , accusing it, Sabre Holdings Corp. and Travelport LP of
conspiring to block the airline’s entry into electronic flight-
data and reservations market.  “The settlement requires review and approval by the court
presiding over AMR Corporation’s restructuring,” the companies
said in the statement, declining to comment further.  AMR filed for U.S. bankruptcy court protection in  New York 
in 2011. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane last week approved the
 Fort Worth , Texas-based airline’s proposed merger with U.S.
Airways Group Inc.  The combined companies will constitute the world’s largest
carrier and operate under the American Airlines name. Lane’s
approval moves American a step closer to finishing its
reorganization and exiting  bankruptcy protection .  Orbitz in February lost a bid to enforce what it claimed
was an agreement to resolve the antitrust litigation with
American. The airline denied any deal had been completed.  ‘Signed Agreement’  “While this court certainly encourages settlement
agreements, it simply is disinclined to enforce anything short
of a final, signed agreement,” U.S. District Judge Terry R. Means said in a Feb. 12 ruling.  The accord described in court then by Orbitz lawyer
Christopher Yates called for no payment to either party, mutual
releases from liability and his client’s agreement to provide
American with information it could use against other defendants,
Yates said in court.  In exchange, the airline would drop the case against
Orbitz, Yates said.  Airline lawyer Paul Yetter had told Means the deal was
never completed.  American settled its litigation with Sabre in October and
with Travelport last month.  The case is  American Airlines  v. Travelport Ltd., 11-cv-
00244, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  