-- Anglo Discusses Port With Batista at $8.8 Billion Brazil Project
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-04-01T18:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/anglo-discusses-port-with-batista-at-8-8-billion-brazil-project.html
Anglo American Plc. (AAL)  said its biggest
project, the $8.8 billion Minas-Rio venture in Brazil, is 60
percent complete as the London-based miner discusses terms of
its port terminal agreement with  Eike Batista .  Anglo is in talks with Batista’s  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3)  to allow
the billionaire to open their jointly owned terminal at the Acu
port in Rio de Janeiro state to other investments, Paulo Castellari, Anglo’s head for iron ore in Brazil, said today. The
company expects to sign “operational agreements” with LLX by
June, he said.  “We are in negotiations to see what else will be done
there,” Castellari, 42, told reporters today during a meeting
at the company’s offices in Belo Horizonte, Brazil. “We have
priority for 26.5 million tons and the right to expand, that’s
guaranteed,” he said, declining to say what Anglo is asking
Batista as compensation to allow the terminal for other uses.  Anglo said in January it would write down $4 billion on
Minas-Rio and increase the iron-ore project’s budget for a sixth
time after prior blowouts forced Chief Executive Officer Cynthia Carroll to quit. The venture has suffered licensing impediments
and rising costs since Anglo bought it in 2008, leading to a
delay of at least four years to start production.  Minas-Rio, which includes a mine, processing plant and a
525-kilometer pipeline to an iron-ore terminal at the Acu port
in Rio state, will have an initial capacity of 26.5 million
metric tons a year. Anglo, which says the project contains at
least 8 billion tons of resources, expects to make the first
shipment in late 2014.  Anglo continues talks with  Ternium SA (TX)  for an iron-ore
supply contract from Minas-Rio, Castellari said today, after
saying last year that an agreement would be signed by June 2012.  Anglo  dropped  1.7 percent in London on March 28 before the
Easter break and has slumped 28 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  