-- Manufacturing in U.S. Probably Grew in March on Equipment Demand
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-04-01T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/manufacturing-in-u-s-probably-grew-in-march-on-equipment-demand.html
Manufacturing in the U.S. probably
kept expanding in March as business investment and  consumer
spending  improved, economists said before a report today.  A reading of 54 for the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
factory  index  is the  median  forecast in a Bloomberg survey after
the prior month’s 54.2, which was the highest since June 2011. A
level greater than 50 signals growth.  Construction spending 
rebounded in February, separate figures may show.  The economy is getting a bigger boost from production gains
amid stronger  capital spending , progress in the housing industry
and resilient consumer demand. Further strides in manufacturing
may depend on how companies respond to automatic cuts in federal
spending that began last month.  “We’re seeing growth in housing plus the trickle-down into
all the associated industries,” said Tom Simons, an economist
at Jefferies LLC in  New York . “Businesses aren’t overly
concerned about the budget cuts,” though “there could be some
months of weakness,” he said.  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s figures are due at 10 a.m.
New York time. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
51.6 to 55.  Also at 10 a.m., Commerce Department figures may show
construction spending climbed 1 percent in February as near
record-low  mortgage rates  spurred homebuilding, according to the
Bloomberg survey  median . Estimates ranged from no change to a 2
percent increase.  Texas Instruments  Manufacturers projecting a better outlook include  Texas
Instruments Inc. (TXN)  The largest maker of analog chips raised the
lower end of its forecasts for first-quarter sales and profit.  “The stronger demand environment has continued,”  Ron Slaymaker , vice president of the Dallas-based company, said on a
March 7 conference call with analysts. “Quarter-to-date orders
have been growing strongly.”  Manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy, has rebounded following a mid-2012 slowdown. Orders for
durable goods jumped 5.7 percent in February, the most since
September, after falling 3.8 percent the prior month, the
Commerce Department said on March 26.  At the same time, regional reports offered a mixed picture
for March. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s so-called
Empire State gauge showed manufacturing in the region grew for a
second month, and the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s
factory  index  indicated growth. The MNI Chicago Report’s
business barometer fell to the  lowest level  of this year.  Federal Spending  As part of the attempt to rein in the  federal budget 
deficit, the government began across-the-board reductions in
spending on March 1. About $85 billion of those will occur in
this fiscal year.  Federal Reserve policy makers have said they’re concerned
the fiscal restraint may impede the expansion’s progress. The
economy cooled to a 0.4 percent annual rate in the final three
months of 2012, after growing at a 3.1 percent pace in the third
quarter.  Manufacturing shares are trailing the overall market. The
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery Index has advanced
6.1 percent this year, compared with a 10 percent jump in the
broader S&P 500 measure.  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , the maker of Pratt & Whitney jet
engines and Otis elevators, is among businesses projecting
economic growth will improve.  “The  U.S. economy  is better and it is going to continue to
get better,” Gregory Hayes, chief financial officer of the
Hartford, Connecticut-based company, said at a March 14 analyst
meeting. “We’ve got another year-and-a-half or so probably of
low interest-rate environment, which we could hope to capitalize
on.”  Consumer spending climbed in February by the most in five
months, even in the face of a two percentage-point increase in
the  payroll tax . Growth in hiring is one reason for the pickup.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  