-- Apple, Wharton, Del Monte, DuPont: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-04-01T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/apple-wharton-del-monte-dupont-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s future iPhones may look
very different from present models, if a recently published
patent application is any indication.  The Cupertino, California-based company submitted an
application, published in the database of the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office on March 28, for what it calls “an electronic
device with wrap-around display.”  According to application  20130076612 , the mobile device
will have a flexible display housing that is enclosed in a
transparent housing. Apple said any portion of the display can
show visual content.  The present configuration of most mobile devices leaves its
sides and rear surfaces “unused or at best configured with
buttons and switches with fixed location and functionality,”
according to the application. Because many of the device’s
buttons and switches have fixed functionality they can’t always
be incorporated into third-party applications, Apple said.  The aim of the new configuration would be to provide
functionality on more than one surface, Apple said.  The company applied for the patent in September 2011.
Unlike many Apple patent applications or patents related to the
appearance of the company’s products, the application doesn’t
name the late  Steve Jobs , the company founder, as an inventor.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Penn Accuses California Company of Being Wharton Imposter  The  University of Pennsylvania  filed a lawsuit accusing a
California company of violating a trademark associated with the
Wharton Business School.  The Wharton Business Foundation, which has locations in
Beverly Hills, California, and Blue Bell, Pennsylvania, is using
Penn’s 132-year-old Wharton trademark without authorization,
lawyers for the university said in a complaint made public March
28 in federal court in Philadelphia.  The company’s use of the name “creates a likelihood of
confusion in the marketplace,” the University of Pennsylvania
said in its complaint.  Wharton Business Foundation operates a website with the
Wharton name and offers services including business education
and business consultation through its Wharton Business
Foundation University, according to the complaint. The company
also advertises and has a toll-free phone number 888-4-WHARTON,
the university said in its filing.  Penn has been using the Wharton registered mark for
business education since as early as 1881 and for business
consultation since 1953, lawyers for the university said in the
filing.  According to the school’s website , the name comes from
businessman and entrepreneur Joseph Wharton, who established
“the world’s first collegiate school of business” at the
university in 1881.  The university is seeking a  jury trial  and a court order
barring the misuse of its mark.  Officials at the Wharton Business Foundation didn’t
immediately return a phone message seeking comment on the
complaint.  The case is The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania
v. Wharton Business Foundation, 13-cv-01616, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  Del Monte Barred From Some Labeling, Product-Dating Practices  Del Monte  Foods Co., the maker of canned fruit and pet
products controlled by KKR & Co., is barred from using its
trademark on refrigerated food products containing five
specified kinds of fruit.  A federal court in Manhattan told the San Francisco-based
food company that it violated a licensing agreement with its
1989 spinoff  Fresh Del Monte Produce Inc. (FDP) , and falsely informed
customers that some of its products that contained preservatives
had to be refrigerated  The order came in resolution of the contract-dispute suit
Fresh filed against Del Monte in 2008. Fresh, based in Coral
Gables, Florida, claimed that the California company breached a
trademark licensing agreement.  According to court papers, the agreement limited Del Monte
Foods’ exclusive use of the Del Monte mark to preserved produce
and gave Fresh the rights to use it with fresh fruit and
vegetables.  The dispute centered on the parties’ different
interpretations of a license agreement with respect to
refrigerated pineapple, melons, berries, papayas and bananas
regardless of whether they are fresh or preserved.  Following a jury verdict that Del Monte had violated
trademark law with respect to some of the products, it gave
Fresh a damages award of $7.2 million. Fresh then sought a court
order controlling aspects of Del Monte’s packaging and
marketing.  In his March 28 order, U.S. District Judge Sidney H. Stein
said Del Monte is barred from using the trademark on any product
containing any of the five fruits that is intended to be
refrigerated or chilled at the point of sale. If Del Monte’s
customers are refrigerating these products, the California
company is required to tell them in writing that they aren’t
permitted to sell them under refrigeration.  The company is also barred from pasteurizing or adding
chemical preservatives to its fruit products without saying so.
The judge said that while Del Monte didn’t have to add
“‘Contains Preservatives’’ on the front label, it must state on
the ingredient list that certain chemicals added are
preservatives. Additionally, Del Monte cannot put ‘‘best by’’ or
‘‘sell by’’ dates on its products without test results that
justify the existence of such a date, he said.  The case is Fresh Del Monte Produce Inc. v. Del Monte Foods
Co., 08-cv-08718, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  ‘Star Wars’ Movie May Guide Big East on Selecting New Name  Darth Vader might serve as inspiration for the  Big East 
Conference, which must change its name after the so-called
Catholic Seven leaves in three months and takes the league’s
moniker with them.  Among the names suggested by the marketing firm Duffy &
Shanley when the conference formed in 1979 was Galactic East,
which the company said was inspired by the 1977 movie ‘‘Star
Wars.’’ Other suggestions were the Empire Conference, Conference
One, Eastern One, Olympic Conference and Eastern Compact,
according to the plan, a copy of which was provided to  Bloomberg
News  by Dave Duffy, a partner in the firm at the time.  Geographic-based suggestions were the Big East, Met-East
and North Atlantic Alliance. Heritage-based suggestions were the
Patriot Athletic Conference, Colonial League and Mayflower
Compact.  The firm’s principal recommendation was the Big East, which
will be used by the seven departing schools that include
 Georgetown University , Villanova University and Providence
College. Joseph Shanley, the father of current Providence
College President Brian Shanley, was a partner in the marketing
firm.  ‘‘All the great brands of the world -- General Electric,
Coca-Cola, they have a lot of roots,’’ Duffy, 73, said in a
telephone interview from Florida. ‘‘It would be hard for the new
basketball league to start over and match that.’’  Covington & Burling LLP attorney Marie Lavalleye, acting as
a representative of the league, on March 6 filed an application
with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for the term ‘‘America
12 Conference.’’ She didn’t return a telephone calling seeking
comment on the name change.  Duffy & Shanley, in the original marketing plan, said the
conference’s name, at least in the beginning, shouldn’t include
a number because conference members are sure to change, a
recommendation he said is even more valid today with the
realignment in college sports. Shanley, the Providence
president, earlier this month said ‘‘the landscape in college
sports has not stopped morphing.”  Since 2011, the Big East has lost 16 schools that were
either members or dropped out before playing a game. The Pac-10
Conference, meantime, became the Pac-12 after adding two
schools. The  Big Ten Conference  hasn’t had 10 teams since Penn
State University joined in 1990. While the Big Ten didn’t change
its name at the time, it did alter its  logo  to reflect an 11th
team. The current Big Ten has 12 football members and is adding
more.  DuPont Drops Trademark-Infringement Suit Against Easton-Bell  DuPont Co. (DD) , the maker of Corian countertops and Tyvek
packaging materials, dropped a trademark-infringement lawsuit
against a California maker of sports equipment.  The suit, filed Jan. 28 in federal court in Wilmington,
Delaware, accused Easton-Bell Sports Inc. of Scotts Valley,
California, of infringing the chemical company’s “Kevlar”
trademark.  DuPont, based in Wilmington, said the size of the Kevlar
trademark on Easton-Bell’s packaging was even larger than the
California company’s own mark, according to the complaint  Easton-Bell has sold and marketed bicycle tires and locks
in packaging displaying the Kevlar trademark since July,
according to court papers. Such products are sold through
retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,  Target Corp. (TGT)  and
Amazon.com Inc., DuPont said.  Easton-Bell sued in federal court in San Francisco on Jan.
18, seeking a court declaration that it didn’t infringe the
DuPont trademark.  In its pleadings, Easton-Bell said it has bought Kevlar
from authorized distributors and resellers for at least six
years and used it in bike tires and locks. Indicating on its
packaging that the products contain Kevlar “has no likelihood
of causing confusion,” the company claimed.  On March 26, a magistrate judge refused to dismiss Easton-
Bell’s case and rejected DuPont’s request that the dispute be
transferred to Delaware. He said that DuPont’s request for a
transfer was inappropriate.  Dupont didn’t give any reason for dropping its suit against
Easton-Bell. According to the March 28 filing, Easton-Bell
hadn’t answered the complaint or asked that the case be
dismissed.  The DuPont case is E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co. v. Easton-
Bell Sports Inc., 1:13-cv-00150, U.S. District Court, District
of Delaware (Wilmington). The earlier case is Easton-Bell Sports
v. E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co, 3:13-cv-00283, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  For more trademark news, click here.  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Obama Urged by Democrats to Act on China’s Alleged Cyber Thefts  President  Barack Obama ’s administration should take action
to curb China’s alleged cyber theft, two House Democrats said,
after a top U.S. official accused the Asian nation of industrial
espionage against American companies.  The U.S. Trade Representative’s office needs to designate
China as a top violator of  intellectual property  rights, which
can lead to further trade restrictions, Representatives Sander
Levin of Michigan and Charles Rangel of New York said March 28
in a letter to Acting USTR Demetrios Marantis.  “In the case of China, the government itself appears to be
actively stealing the intellectual property of American
businesses,” the lawmakers, ranking Democrats on the House Ways
and Means Committee, which deals with trade issues, wrote.  China’s cyber espionage against U.S. businesses is adding
tension between the governments of the world’s two largest
economies, Obama’s National Security Adviser Thomas Donilon said
in a March 11 speech in New York. In their letter, Levin and
Rangel cited a February report by Mandiant Corp., an Arlington,
Virginia-based information security firm, that concluded the
Chinese government is probably the source of recent hacking
attacks.  The lawmakers asked the USTR to list China in the annual
assessment of intellectual property rights protection and
enforcement in other nations, to be released about April 30.  “We have received the letter and are reviewing it,”  Carol
Guthrie , a USTR spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The USTR will seek to toughen trade-secret protection
through the annual assessment, the Obama administration said its
strategy to mitigate violations, released in February.  Intellectual-property protection is among the issues being
negotiated as the U.S. seeks trade deals with 10 Pacific-region
governments and the 27-nation European Union. Companies
including New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  rely
on enforcement of trade laws to protect their patents.  Intellectual-property provisions shouldn’t be in a proposed
U.S.-EU trade deal because they could raise health-care costs,
limit free speech and restrict access to education materials,
Washington-based consumer group Public Citizen said in a March
18 statement joined by other organizations.  IP Moves  Wilson Sonsini Expands IP Practice With Team of Five From Sidley  Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati PC expanded its IP
practice with the hiring of five patent litigators, the Palo
Alto, California-based firm said in a  statement .  The five new hires all previously were with Chicago’s
Sidley Austin LLP. They are Edward Poplawski, Vera Elson, Paul Tripodi II, Olivia M. Kim and Sandra S. Fujiyama.  Poplawski , who headed Sidley’s West Coast IP practice, has
litigated life-sciences and technology patent cases in federal
courts and before the International Trade Commission, a
Washington-based entity with the power to exclude imports of
products that infringe U.S. intellectual property.  He has an undergraduate degree and a master’s degree in
mechanical engineering from Drexel University and a law degree
from Villanova University.  Elson  has previously practiced at Wilson Sonsini and at
Chicago’s McDermott Will & Emery LLP. Before she was a lawyer,
she was an electrical engineer at Hughes Aircraft’s Advanced
Circuit Technology Labs.  She has an undergraduate degree in cybernetics and a
master’s degree in engineering from the  University of California 
at  Los Angeles  and a law degree from the University of  Southern
California .  Tripodi  has practiced in both federal court and before the
International Trade Commission.  He has an undergraduate degree in chemistry from
Pennsylvania State University, a master’s degree in chemical
physics from the California Institute of Technology and a law
degree from the University of California at Los Angeles.  Kim  has represented clients whose technologies have
included biometric sensors, computer processor architecture,
Internet payment systems and plasma display panels. She was a
researcher at the University of California’s immunology and
physiology labs before she became a lawyer.  She has an undergraduate degree in biochemistry and a law
degree from the University of California at Los Angeles.  Fujiyama  does patent and trademark acquisition work in
addition to litigation.  She has an undergraduate degree in biochemistry and a law
degree from the University of California at Los Angeles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 