-- Are Floating Pigs Behind China’s Avian Flu?
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-04-01T14:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/are-floating-pigs-behind-china-s-avian-flu-.html
News that a new form of deadly bird
flu recently killed two  Shanghai  residents arrived in the
morning’s papers, along with some expert suggestions on how to
avoid catching the unwelcome disease.  “Wash your hands, and cover your nose and mouth when
coughing or sneezing,” was the  advice published  in the Oriental
Morning Post, Shanghai’s most popular newspaper (and  repeated in
others ). “And avoid eating or contact with dead and diseased
livestock.”  That last directive might be a little tricky to fulfill.
Since early March, Shanghai’s waterways have been clogged by
dead pigs --  officially  at least 11,000 of them but  likely a lot
more . Many of those pigs have found their way into tributaries
that feed directly into the municipal water supply. Thus, in
theory, every Shanghai resident who comes into contact with the
city’s water is potentially compromised.  Or are they? So far, at least, nobody from any level of
government -- local to national -- has revealed what, precisely,
may have caused a massive pork die-off so close to the city of
Shanghai. Was it a virus? Or perhaps a play for livestock
insurance? Both rumors (and others) have been floated in Chinese
social and traditional media, but without official confirmation.  The reason for the mass water burial, however, is a
different matter. According to numerous reports in Chinese and
foreign media (though also without government confirmation), the
 immediate cause  appears to be a government crackdown on the
well-established, highly lucrative and totally disgusting
underground trade in dead and diseased pigs for human
consumption.  For Shanghai, a town whose cuisine is largely built on
pork, this news would be unsettling under any circumstance. But
in light of a bird flu that even Communist Party newspapers are
implying could be caused by contact with dead and diseased
livestock, it’s reason for panic. And, sure enough, Chinese
social media were quickly filled with  speculation  on whether the
month-long dead pork tide had played any role in this emerging
strain of flu. Adding to the sense of unease was the late-arriving information that the younger of Shanghai’s two bird flu
victims was a  27-year-old pork trader .  So far, nobody knows just how the young pork merchant
contracted the flu (the  World Health Organization says  that
human-to-human transmission is highly unlikely). The H7 types of
virus, to which the newly emerged strain belongs, generally
 infect humans through birds , not pigs. Thus it would behoove the
Shanghai government -- or whoever is in charge of the response
to the outbreak -- to test some of the pig carcasses recovered
from the Huangpu river for the H7N7 strain that caused the two
human deaths, and disclose the results to an increasingly edgy
Chinese public.  To be sure, even a positive result wouldn’t prove the
source of the new outbreak. But it would indicate that  China ’s
public health authorities are willing to exhibit some well-needed transparency during a public health crisis with
potentially global consequences.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter at
 ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 