-- Marlins Fans Stay Away as Owner Loria’s Popularity Plummets
-- B y   I r a   B o u d w a y
-- 2013-04-01T17:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/marlins-fans-to-stay-away-as-loria-s-favorability-rating-drops.html
Russell McBride has been a Miami
Marlins fan since the Major League Baseball team’s first season
in 1993.  For the past decade, he’s attended the home opener with
about 20 friends. McBride was there last April when the Marlins
played the first game in their new 37,000-seat, retractable roof
stadium -- a gaudy gem of a facility that owner Jeffrey Loria
filled with $191 million in free agent talent, including players
signed away from big-time franchises in New York and Chicago.  Every baseball team is in first place on opening day; the
2012 Marlins appeared poised to be there in October, too. When
Miami plays its first home game of 2013, on April 8 against the
Atlanta Braves, McBride will be a conscientious objector.  “I’m not going to attend any more games until there is an
ownership change,” he said.  This is as gentle an opinion about Loria as you’ll find.
After a widely hated trade, he’s been called everything from a
con artist and the biggest fraud in baseball by Yahoo, to a
“wheezing toad goiter,” by ESPN. When the Miami Herald
commissioned a poll of South Florida baseball fans in November,
Loria’s favorability rating was 6 percent.  Baseball in Miami has always been a cycle of boom and gloom.
The Marlins have won two World Series titles -- one in 1997
under Blockbuster video billionaire Wayne Huizenga, one under
Loria, in 2003. The franchise’s other 18 seasons have mostly
been exercises in anonymous futility.  Funds Lacking  Ownership said there was a lack of funds to get star talent
because the Marlins were forced to play in the Miami Dolphins’
cavernous, soggy football stadium.  “I’m done losing money until there’s a commitment from
others,” Loria told the New York Times in 2005.  By commitment, he meant a baseball-only stadium, and from
others he meant the tax-paying public.  Over the next three years Loria did the ownership Hokey
Pokey -- one foot in his home market, one in Portland, or San
Antonio, or Las Vegas. Anywhere that might put pressure on the
people of Miami to fork over the money.  “We let it bottom out,” Marlins President and Loria’s
stepson David Samson told Miami business leaders at a breakfast
meeting last year. “We pretended we were going to move.”  Like countless other owners, Loria’s tactics worked. In
March 2009, Miami-Dade County commissioners approved a $650
million stadium project, with the city and county kicking in
$490 million. Thanks to the balloon payment structure of the
bonds sold to finance Marlins Park, the county is actually on
the hook for $2.4 billion through 2049. Loria promised Miami
about $160 million, plus rent on a 35-year lease.  Opening Loss  For all that public money, fans like McBride expected a
winner, and on opening day 2012 it looked like Loria had
assembled one. But the Marlins lost that day and 92 more times
in 2012, finishing in last place in the National League East.  Most team owners would ask their fan base to embrace
baseball’s array of cliches about hope for next year and pledge
to do whatever it takes to field a winner. Not Loria.  On Nov. 13, the Marlins traded five veteran players,
including two signed the previous off-season, to the Toronto
Blue Jays in exchange for three big-leaguers and four prospects.  The trade wasn’t about players, though. It was about money:
The Marlins shed $146.5 million in future payroll. If the
Marlins were going to lose, Loria decided they might as well
lose cheap. Even if that meant becoming the most hated man in
Miami.  Emotional Bonds  It’s easy to forget that baseball teams are capitalist
enterprises -- in part because they’re not entirely. Besides
MLB’s antitrust exemption, franchises trade on the emotions of
their home cities in ways the local manufacturing plant can not.  Like any retail company, the Marlins have customers. They
buy tickets, beer, souvenirs, etc. Uniquely, though, the team
also has supporters. These people may never set foot in the
stadium or watch a game on TV, but their pride in the team spurs
on the paying customers and imbues the franchise with a halo of
civic value.  The most respected owners -- such as Charles Johnson of the
San Francisco Giants and Stuart Sternberg of the Tampa Bay Rays
-- run their teams for profit while keeping the halo bright.
They aren’t just owners, they are fans-in-chief. Sometimes
they’ll spend money to stay respectable even when a championship
is unlikely, just to ensure the halo doesn’t dim. Unlike many of
his fellow owners, Jeffrey Loria is unwilling to fake it.  Profit Motive  “Loria’s a profit maximizing person and we shouldn’t
presume that he is looking out for the city,” said Victor
Matheson, an economist at the College of the Holy Cross who
studies stadium financing. “He’s looking out for himself, and
the way he does that is by extracting as many dollars as he can
from fans, from taxpayers, and from the league in general.”  Loria declined to be interviewed for this story.  Loria, 72, bought his first baseball team in 1989, paying
$4.2 million with a group of partners for the minor league
Oklahoma City 89ers. Raised in Manhattan, Loria was a high
school second baseman who went on to earn millions as an art
dealer specializing in 20th century masters.  Baseball remained a passion, though, and the 89ers were
hardly a vanity purchase. According to Jim Weigel, then the
89ers general manager, Loria had a phone line installed so he
could call in and hear the radio feed of games from wherever his
art business took him. He raised front office salaries and
weighed in on everything from uniforms to ticket giveaways until
he sold the team for $8 million in 1993.  Expos Deal  After failed bids to buy into big league teams in Texas,
Baltimore and Kansas City, Loria got lucky in Montreal. In 1999,
the Expos’ local ownership group was short on cash and sold him
a 24 percent stake for $12 million.  Three years later, they accused Loria of conspiring with
the league to move the franchise.  In a racketeering suit filed in Miami, they claimed he had
set out to destroy the viability of baseball in Montreal by
sabotaging media rights deals and efforts to build a new stadium.
Loria denied the allegations, and the other owners did not
pursue the claims after an arbitration panel later found that
Loria acted within his contractual rights.  Whatever his intentions in Montreal, Loria poured $18
million into the Expos. He boosted payroll, triggering cash
calls the other owners failed to answer. By 2002, he owned 94
percent of the club.  Double Play  That year, MLB Commissioner Bud Selig executed a double
switch. The league’s other 29 owners took over the Expos, paying
Loria and his partners $120 million. (The league eventually
moved the team to Washington). Florida Marlins owner John Henry
then sold his team to Loria for $158.5 million, with a $38.5
million interest-free loan from the league. Henry then led a
group that bought the Boston Red Sox for $660 million.  In his second season in Miami, the Marlins won the World
Series, albeit with a roster that was largely in place when
Loria arrived.  “You can say a lot of things about him, but the guy wants
to win,” said former Marlins catcher Paul Lo Duca. “Probably
too much.”  When the 2004 Marlins were in the playoff hunt, Lo Duca
recalled Loria showing up in the clubhouse with a highlight reel
from the previous year’s World Series team to pump up the
players.  “As corny as it sounds, that’s Jeffrey,” he said.  There is a downside to all that competitive passion, though.  “He probably does have knee-jerk reactions,” said Lo Duca.  Competitive, Impetuous  Careening between competitive instincts and impetuous
decision-making has been a hallmark of Loria’s ownership. In
2005, as he was cutting payroll and pressing for a new stadium
deal -- losing now so he could win long-term -- Fox Sports
Florida offered a quick cash infusion in return for the team’s
regional TV rights. Former MLB Commissioner Fay Vincent, who
along with other sports executives anticipated a spike in rights
fees, tried to talk Loria out of the 15-year deal.  Vincent asked if there were any early-out clauses in the
contract; Loria said no, and that he planned to make the deal
anyway.  “It was take the money now, pay off debt, be
comfortable,” said Vincent. That deal, which the South Florida
Sun Sentinel reported pays $16 million to $18 million per year,
now stands as one of the worst in baseball. In February, Loria
invoked it as one of the reasons he had to cut payroll.  $29 Million  MLB doesn’t reveal the finances of individual teams, but
for a while, Loria’s penury didn’t appear to hurt the Marlins.
Financial documents leaked to the website Deadspin in 2010
showed that, thanks to subsidies from wealthier clubs and a
share of league-wide media and royalty deals, the Marlins had
net income of $29 million in 2008 despite their paltry
attendance.  The arrival of the new stadium changed things. There was
the $191 million off-season free agent binge; a Showtime reality
show about the team; and an attempt to reposition Loria as a
civic figure.  The stadium plan included a $7.5 million “Art in Public
Places” budget to install works by artists such as Joan Miro
and Roy Lichtenstein in the concourses. Loria sent the message
that he had evolved into a more traditional kind of owner, one
who would at least make a grateful gesture or two to the city.  Payroll Errors  Marlins President David Samson conceded that the team’s
turbulence has been hard on fans. The way he sees it, the
mistake wasn’t slashing payroll after a losing season, but in
ever raising it.  “Being higher in payroll than we should have been last
year, it didn’t work,” he said.  All fans see now is the drop.  “Last year we had $100 million and this year it’s $40
million payroll. If we were 70 last year and 70 this year,
you’re probably not even calling me.”  In a sign that the franchise is returning to form, Samson
said that the new stadium is now part of the reason the team had
to dump salaries.  “Let’s not forget the investment (Loria) made in the
ballpark,” he said. “That money is significant. Does it come
instead of payroll? Yeah. Dollars are dollars wherever they
go.”  In any given season most sports teams are in some stage of
rebuilding. Only one wins a title. A handful contend. The rest
can disguise where they are or try to explain where they’re
going. Disguise involves keeping or signing a couple of aging
players with names the fans know and pretending your team has a
chance. Explaining requires putting trust in your fans’ ability
to see the long view.  “You have to communicate, be transparent and be honest,”
Mark Cuban, owner of the National Basketball Association’s
Dallas Mavericks, said in an e-mail. “Then expect to get
criticized heavily in the media.”  Bare Bones  As general manager of the Cleveland Indians in 1992, John
Hart, now an analyst for MLB Network, stripped his team “down
to bare bones,” a $6 million payroll. Three years and one new
stadium later, the team went on a five-year playoff run. When
they lost to Huizenga’s Marlins in the 1997 World Series, the
payroll was $54 million.  “You’ve got to articulate your vision, to explain what it
is you’re doing, and keep your fans updated,” said Hart.
“You’re selling the future.”  For all of the rancor inspired by the Marlins’ off-season,
executives on other teams tend to agree that the team is setting
itself up well for the future.  Shrewd Move  Baseball Prospectus, one of the most trusted guides in the
game, called the November trade “a shrewd baseball move” that
“infused talented players into an already impressive
pipeline.” In a full-page ad in three South Florida papers,
Loria made an attempt to explain the team’s strategy.  “We needed to start from scratch quickly to build this
team from the ground up,” he wrote.  Ticket sales have dipped more than expected since the
November trade. Season ticket holders, Samson told the local
media, are down from 12,000 last season to fewer than 5,000. And
it’s possible that no amount of explanation or outreach can keep
the Marlins’ from an attendance apocalypse in 2013.  “My job is -- one fan at a time -- just to try to get
people to engage with the Marlins and enjoy the fact that there
is baseball here,” said Samson. “To have even one person not
want to watch or go to a game because of me or because of
Jeffrey makes me disappointed and sad.”  If those jilted fans see progress in the next two or three
years, history says they will begin to forget their dashed hopes.  “If they start to play well and they add some free agents
back into the mix, fans will come back,” said Hart. “They
will.”  At least until Loria tears it down again.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ira Boudway in New York at 
 iboudway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Biuso at 
 ebiuso@bloomberg.net  