-- Dodgers, Nationals Open With MLB Wins as Yankees Lose to Red Sox
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-04-02T05:41:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/harper-homers-twice-in-nationals-win-boston-beats-yankees-8-2.html
Clayton Kershaw  and Bryce Harper
showed why the Los Angeles Dodgers and Washington Nationals
entered the Major League Baseball season as two of the leading
favorites to win the World Series.  Kershaw pitched the Dodgers to a 4-0 win against the
defending World Series-champion San Francisco Giants while
becoming the first player to throw a shutout and hit a home run
on opening day since Hall of Famer Bob Lemon in 1953.  Harper became the youngest major leaguer to hit two home
runs in his team’s first game of the season, leading the
Nationals to a 2-0 win against the Miami Marlins yesterday.  The wins by the Dodgers and Nationals were among four
shutouts in 12 games on baseball’s first full day of play, when
ace pitchers such as Washington’s  Stephen Strasburg , Detroit’s
 Justin Verlander  and Seattle’s  Felix Hernandez  joined Kershaw in
getting opening day wins.  The New York Mets, who scored the sixth-fewest runs in the
majors last season, were the only team to score more than 10
runs in a 11-2 victory against the San Diego Padres.  The New York Yankees were beaten by the Boston Red Sox 8-2,
ending a record-tying run of 11 straight wins in home season
openers that dated back to 1982. Both New York teams started
their season at home yesterday for the first time.  The Los Angeles Angels won yesterday’s longest game,
pulling out a 3-1 victory against the Cincinnati Reds on a two-
run single by Chris Ianetta in the 13th inning. Milwaukee and
Colorado also went to extra innings, with the Brewers winning
5-4 on Jonathan Lucroy’s sacrifice fly in the bottom of the
10th.  Braves Win  The  Atlanta Braves  hit three home runs off Cole Hamels in a
7-5 home win against the Philadelphia Phillies, while Verlander
tossed five shutout innings in the Detroit Tigers’ 4-2 victory
at the Minnesota Twins.  In yesterday’s other season openers, the Chicago Cubs
topped the Pittsburgh Pirates 3-1, Chris Sale pitched the
Chicago White Sox to a 1-0 win against the Kansas City Royals,
the Arizona Diamondbacks defeated the St. Louis Cardinals 6-2,
and the Mariners blanked the Oakland Athletics 2-0 as Hernandez
pitched 7 2/3 scoreless innings.  Kershaw had the most dominating pitching performance of the
day, limiting the Giants to four hits over nine innings for the
first shutout in a Dodgers home opener since  Fernando Valenzuela 
in 1981. Kershaw also hit a solo homer in the eighth inning to
snap a scoreless tie, the first by a pitcher on opening day
since Joe Magrane in 1988.  “We had opportunities but didn’t get him run support, so
he did it himself,” Dodgers first baseman  Adrian Gonzalez  said.
“To me, he’s probably the best pitcher in baseball.”  Harper’s Homers  Harper, 20, hit solo home runs off Marlins starter Ricky Nolasco in the first and fourth innings yesterday at Nationals
Park in Washington. Harper’s two home runs accounted for
Washington’s only scoring as Strasburg, another No. 1 draft
pick, allowed three hits in seven innings.  The Nationals entered this season with 7-1 odds of winning
the World Series, tied with the Angels for second best behind
the Tigers. The Dodgers are fourth with 8-1 odds.  The Mets, tied for 28th out of 30 teams with 100-1 odds of
winning the World Series, started their season by scoring
multiple runs in the second, third and fourth innings at Citi
Field in Flushing, Queens. Nine of the team’s 11 runs came with
two outs. Collin Cowgill hit a seventh-inning grand slam in his
Mets debut, while captain  David Wright  was 2-for-5 with a run
batted in and two stolen bases.  Yankees Fall  At Yankee Stadium in the Bronx, the Red Sox opened the
scoring with a four-run second inning and never trailed. Jacoby Ellsbury was 3-for-6 with two RBIs and a run scored as the Red
Sox snapped a five-game losing skid against the Yankees.  New York catcher  Francisco Cervelli  drove in both runs for
a Yankees roster thinned by injuries to  Curtis Granderson ,  Derek Jeter ,  Alex Rodriguez  and  Mark Teixeira . New York starter CC Sabathia allowed eight hits and four runs in five innings as the
Yankees lost their season-opening game for the fourth time in
the past five years.  With Granderson, Teixeira, Jeter and Rodriguez injured, and
 Russell Martin , Raul Ibanez,  Nick Swisher ,  Eric Chavez  and
Andruw Jones having left in the offseason, the Yankees entered
this campaign without players who combined for 206 homers last
year. Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said the missing home runs
would not affect the team’s ability to rally late in games.  “I’m sure I’m going to be asked that question a lot
without some of the firepower that we’ve had in the past,”
Girardi told reporters. “But I feel these guys are more than
capable of coming back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  