-- Taylor Morrison Files to Raise as Much as $523.8 Million
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-04-01T16:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/taylor-morrison-files-to-raise-up-to-524-million-in-ipo.html
Taylor Morrison Home Corp. (TMHC) , a
builder of houses in the U.S. and  Canada , filed to raise as much
as $523.8 million in an initial public offering.  About 23.8 million shares are being offered at $20 to $22
each, according to a regulatory filing today from the
Scottsdale, Arizona-based company. Taylor Morrison plans to
trade on the  New York  Stock Exchange under the ticker TMHC.  The builder is seeking to benefit from a recovery in home
sales and  prices , which have climbed following the worst housing
crash since the Great Depression. Taylor Morrison’s owners,
which include TPG Capital and Oaktree Capital Management LP, are
taking advantage of rising demand for new equities as record-
high U.S. stocks help fuel a pickup in the IPO market.  “We believe that a U.S. housing recovery is under way on a
national basis, driven by consumers who are increasingly
optimistic about their economic prospects,” the company said in
the prospectus filed today.  Taylor Morrison builds homes in Arizona, California,
Colorado, Texas, Florida and Ontario, Canada. It was sold in
2011 by its British parent,  Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/) , to a group of
investors backed by David Bonderman’s TPG, Los Angeles-based
Oaktree and JH Investments Inc.  Following the IPO, TPG and Oaktree will each hold 39.5
percent of the shares, while investors in the offering will hold
19.5 percent, according to the prospectus. The $21 midpoint
values Taylor Morrison’s outstanding common stock at $2.57
billion, the regulatory filing shows.  Share Purchases  Taylor Morrison is selling all of the stock in the offering
and will use proceeds to repay borrowings and purchase shares
from TPG and Oaktree, the filing shows.  Taylor Morrison had net income of $430.8 million on revenue
of $1.4 billion in 2012, ranking among the 10 largest publicly
traded U.S. homebuilders, according to the prospectus. It sold
4,014 homes with an average price of $364,000.  Following the IPO, Taylor Morrison intends to sell $500
million of debt, subject to market conditions, for working
capital and general purposes.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are leading the
stock sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  