-- Mazda3 Seen Crucial to Extending Rally on Weaker Yen
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2013-04-02T09:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/mazda3-seen-crucial-to-extending-rally-on-weaker-yen.html
The slide in the yen has turned
 Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) ’s biggest weakness into its biggest strength.
All  Japan ’s most export-dependent automaker has to do now is
sell more cars.  Japan’s fifth-largest car company has the wind of the yen’s
16 percent descent in the past six months in its sails. Shares
have tripled to their highest level since 2008 as more-
profitable exports and cost reductions steer Mazda toward its
first annual profit in five years.  Despite Mazda’s status as the top performer on Japan’s
benchmark stock index over the past six months, the Hiroshima-
based carmaker needs to make a hit out of a new version of the
Mazda3, its top seller, due this fiscal year, to prove it
doesn’t require a weak yen to compete against its bigger rivals.  “It’s very critical,”  Ashvin Chotai , London-based
managing director of Intelligence Automotive  Asia , said of the
Mazda3, which accounts for a third of the automaker’s sales.
“Mazda is a small company and they can’t afford to make any
mistakes.”  Few companies better illustrate how Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is reversing Japan’s fortunes by weakening the yen. About a
year ago, Mazda was so desperate for cash that it printed 1.22
billion new shares, equivalent to almost 70 percent of
outstanding stock, at the expense of existing investors, who saw
their holdings diluted. The stock fell to record lows.  Now, the cheaper local currency is giving Mazda Chief
Executive Takashi Yamanouchi, 68, breathing room to show his
turnaround efforts are bearing fruit and for the company to
focus on rolling out new models.  Profit Boost  The yen’s drop to a 3 1/2-year low -- it is about 93 to the
dollar now -- has turned its operations in the U.S., Mazda’s
biggest market, more profitable. For the fiscal year that ended
March 31, Mazda has projected it would post a profit of 26
billion yen ($279 million), emerging from a loss of 107.7
billion yen the previous year, though its global sales target
was only slightly higher. Mazda said it may report earnings at
the end of this month.  The weaker yen is projected to boost profit for the
January-March quarter. Mazda based its 25.4 billion yen
quarterly operating income forecast on rates of 85 yen per
dollar and 110 per euro. The Japanese currency has never been
that strong in 2013.  It’s still expensive based on its average of about 107 to
the dollar over the past 20 years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  A one-yen change against the dollar, euro, Canadian dollar
and Australian dollar has a 9.1 percent impact on Mazda’s
operating profit, according to estimates of Bank of America
Corp., based on Mazda’s own forecast for the current fiscal
year. That compares with 4.7 percent at  Fuji Heavy Industries
Ltd. (7270) , which makes Subaru cars, and 3.1 percent at  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)   Positive View  The cheaper yen has encouraged analysts to boost their
ratings on Mazda. About 50 percent of those who cover the stock
rated it a buy at the start of March, the highest level since
August 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The stock fell 2.6 percent to 262 yen at the 3 p.m. close
in Tokyo, while the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average declined
1.1 percent. It has gained 51 percent this year, compared with a
15 percent rise in the Nikkei index.  Mazda shares are trading at about 10 times estimated
earnings for the coming fiscal year, in line with other Japanese
automakers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Honda Motor
Co. is valued at 10 times estimated earnings, while Toyota
shares have a multiple of 11.  Advanced Research Japan analyst Koji Endo said his view is
“positive” even though Mazda’s price has tripled from its
historic low last year. “As long as the yen stays at around
90-95 against the dollar, Mazda’s profits could double in the
fiscal year to March 2014,” he said.  Environmentally Friendly  Takashi Aoki, a  fund manager  at Mizuho Asset Management,
said he has also expected a jump in Mazda earnings this year.
However, Mazda is still too reliant on the yen, he said.  “If the Japanese currency goes up to more than 90 yen
versus dollar once again, which is not unlikely, it can be a
risk to Mazda,” he said.  The company’s drive to more than triple profit by 2016
calls for car sales to increase by more than one-third. Top-
selling models are being reintroduced with fuel-saving engines
Mazda spent billions of dollars developing as its own answer to
the demand for more environmentally friendly cars.  The Mazda6, on sale in the U.S. since January, and the
Mazda3, expected later this year, will compete against market
leaders like Toyota’s Camry and Corolla. Together, the pair make
up about half of all Mazda sales.  Elusive Details  Details about the next Mazda3, including when it will be
introduced, remain elusive. Mazda won’t comment on whether the
car follows similar design lines to the Mazda6.  The Mazda6, also set to go on sale in  China  later this
year, will probably shed light on how the new generation of cars
might fare in the market.  The Mazda6 was designed to convey the company’s
determination to do things its own way, according to project
manager Hiroshi Kajiyama. “We are a small carmaker, so we
wanted to make it a distinct car with Mazda’s characteristics,
make it the flagship car,” Kajiyama said, speaking in an
interview in March.  Five Drivers  Kajiyama said the Mazda6 design project involved finding
five Mazda fans in different countries and studying their
lifestyle, interests, driving habits for about a week. The goal
was to figure out what their ideal Mazda would be, Kajiyama
said.  The car’s external shape is sculpted to cut wind resistance
and boost handling, and heated seats are supposed to mold
themselves to the shape of their occupiers. It’s an embodiment
of Mazda’s philosophy of “car and driver as one,” he said.  Mazda was inspired by the fans’ suggestions to move the
driver and passenger compartment toward the rear of the car,
giving its nose and bonnet a sloping, aerodynamic look without
compromising on trunk space. The accelerator pedal is also made
more sensitive to driver foot pressure.  Satomi Hamada, a Tokyo-based analyst at IHS Automotive,
said Mazda’s choice with the Mazda6 design shows the company’s
determination to make cars that stand out. “It is extremely
rare for carmakers to design a mainstream car using just five
people as a data sample,” Hamada said.  Ford Stake  The global economic slowdown that followed the 2008
financial crisis, combined with the yen’s rise to near post-
World War II record levels, sent Mazda to losses.  A long-standing relationship with Ford frayed. Having once
owned about a third of Mazda, the U.S. automaker began cutting
its stake in 2008 to raise cash as it struggled to cope with the
impact of the financial crisis. It now owns 2 percent of the
Japanese company.  As demand for environmentally friendly vehicles grew,
industry rivals developed hybrid gasoline-electric cars or plug-
in battery-powered vehicles. Mazda went its own way. It began
work on what it calls SkyActiv cars, named for a suite of
technology applications based on conventional diesel and
gasoline engines. These includes new automatic transmissions and
lighter car frames to cut down on fuel use while increasing
engine output.  Mazda declines to say how much it has invested in SkyActiv.
The automaker typically spends about 100 billion yen each year
on research and development, according to its financial
statements.  Mazda will incorporate SkyActiv technologies in the
Lafester minivan it will produce for Nissan and an open-top
sports car it has agreed to produce for  Fiat SpA (F)  under the Alfa
Romeo brand.  Cutting Costs  Mazda has cut production costs by 20 percent and boosted
profit margins by increasing efficiency in logistics and
eliminating waste, according to the company. It says the
SkyActiv technology means it can break even on exports even when
the yen is stronger than now: Its CX-5 sport-utility vehicle,
the first to make full use of SkyActiv systems, would make money
even if the yen traded at 77 to the dollar, Mazda says.  The early response to the CX-5, introduced in February
2012, offers Mazda some hope. It was named Japan’s “Car of the
Year” last November by the industry panel that oversees the
annual award and has sold more than 190,938 units in its first
year in market, compared with Mazda’s target of 190,000 units.  Mazda aims to raise operating income to 150 billion yen and
introduce a total of eight models that fully adopt SkyActiv by
March 2016. The company says its annual sales target by then
will be 1.7 million cars, more than a third above current
levels.  Mexico Plant  Mazda is opening a plant in  Mexico  that’s scheduled to
start production in 2014. It also raised the planned initial
production capacity at the plant in Salamanca City, Guanajuato
State to 230,000 cars from 140,000 in order to meet the
increasing global demand for SkyActiv models, as well as for
production of a vehicle for Toyota, it said last year. Mazda
declined to say whether the cars it produces for Toyota in
Mexico will also use the technologies.  Still, Mazda’s sensitivity to yen’s fluctuations will not
change, at least until production begins in Mexico.  “Eventually, you need to have higher localization rate in
the longer term. Mazda is in the right direction,” said
Goldman’s Yuzawa. “But it’s too early to say their sensitivity
is going to go down, so we have to bet on currency when we
invest in Mazda.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in  Tokyo  at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  