-- Barclays Plans to Expand in Egypt as French Banks Retreat
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-04-01T13:45:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/barclays-plans-new-branches-in-egypt-after-french-banks-retreat.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  plans to add branches
in  Egypt  this year as Britain’s second-biggest bank by assets
seeks to expand in the North African country after rivals from
 France  sold local units.  Barclays Bank Egypt SAE will boost its branch network by 10
percent in 2013 and is preparing to offer Islamic banking
services, Omar Baig, consumer banking director at the Cairo-
based lender, said in an interview. Barclays may consider
acquiring another lender in the Arab country “should the
opportunity present itself,” he said.  “For us, Egypt is a very important economy,” Baig said on
March 28. “Our view about Egypt in the long term still remains
that it’s a place where we want to be and we want to be a
significant player.”  Egypt’s economy has struggled to recover since an uprising
more than two years ago toppled  Hosni Mubarak  and led to a
flight of foreign investment. Barclays’ expansion comes after
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  agreed in December to sell its 77 percent
stake in an Egyptian lender to  Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK)  as
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis squeezes profit. The same month,
Dubai-based  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  agreed to buy  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ’s
Egyptian unit.  Weaker Pound  The political turmoil this year prompted Moody’s Investors
Service to downgrade Egypt’s credit rating last month for the
sixth time since the 2011 uprising to Caa1, the fifth-lowest
junk rating. The Egyptian pound has weakened 6.5 percent this
year as the central bank took steps to curb access to dollars to
stem a drop in foreign reserves. Trading of twelve-month non-
deliverable forwards shows investors expect further depreciation
of 18 percent over the life of the contracts.  Egypt’s benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  of equities has dropped 7.4
percent this year, making it the world’s seventh worst performer
among 93 gauges tracked by Bloomberg.  “We’re in a position today where it’s very very difficult
to predict or assess what’s going to happen down the line,”
Baig said. “It’s a crisis of confidence. We saw a lot of
dollarization, which becomes a vicious cycle and it becomes very
difficult to break out of. But we do see opportunities.”  Barclays Egypt, which started operations in the mid-1800s
when the country was under Ottoman rule, controls about 1.2
percent of the assets of Egypt’s 39 banks, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Egyptian Consumers  Qatar National and Emirates NBD decided to expand in Egypt
to gain access to the Arab world’s most populous country, home
to more than 83 million people.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s
biggest bank, said in October it was seeking to boost its
consumer lending and wealth management businesses in Egypt.  Barclays Egypt makes up about 0.1 percent to the British
bank’s asset base of 1.63 trillion pounds ($2.5 trillion) of
assets as of June 2012, according to Bloomberg News calculations
based on financial statements. The bank isn’t planning to issue
debt to fund expansion, Baig said. It also has no plans to sell
shares to the public, as the British lender’s units in Kenya and
Botswana have done, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  