-- Billabong Halts Stock Weighing Sycamore, Altamont Offers
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-04-02T06:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/billabong-halts-stock-weighing-rival-private-equity-bids.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) ,
Australia’s largest surf-wear company, halted its shares after
receiving takeover bids that the Australian Financial Review
reported were below initial A$527 million ($551 million) offers.  Billabong had received proposals and will make a comment on
the situation once it’s finished talks with the bidders, the
 Gold Coast , Australia-based company said in a regulatory
statement today. Altamont  Capital Partners  and Sycamore Partners
Management cut their provisional A$1.10-a-share bids, the AFR
reported without saying where it got the information.  A fair value for the owner of the DaKine and RVCA sports-
wear labels is probably well below A$1 after repeated cuts to
earnings forecasts, said Tony Wilson, an analyst at Evans &
Partners Pty in  Melbourne . The company posted a record loss Feb.
22 on A$567 million of charges as it wrote off most of the value
of its main brand and breached terms on its debt.  “The business seems to be spiraling down -- who knows what
kind of value you place ultimately on it?” Wilson said by
phone. “What it costs to reorganize or restructure is anyone’s
guess.”  The stock last closed at 73 Australian cents, a 34 percent
discount to the A$1.10 a share provisional offers made by both
takeover groups. Billabong is the  second-worst performer  in
Australia’s benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 index (AS51)  over the past 12 months,
losing 67 percent of its market value.  The halt will remain until the start of trade on April 4
unless Billabong makes an announcement before then, according to
the company’s statement. Companies are allowed to issue
successive trading halts.  Separate Approaches  Billabong became a takeover target last year as it sold
inventory below cost to clear shelf space, paid penalties to
break store leases early, cut the value of its brands and posted
its first annual loss since a 2000 listing.  TPG International LLC, the private equity group run by
 David Bonderman , made two separate approaches for Billabong last
year. Another unnamed bidder that people familiar with the
matter identified as  Bain Capital  carried out due diligence on a
A$1.45 bid matching TPG’s second offer, before walking away in
September.  Jesse Rogers and Stefan Kaluzny, who previously worked for
consultant Bain & Co., put their private equity firms Altamont
and Sycamore behind the rival offers for Billabong after three
other approaches were rejected or scrapped since the start of
2012.  Brand Value  Altamont tied up with VF Corp., the largest U.S. clothing
company and owner of the Timberland and Vans brands, while
Sycamore worked with Paul Naude, Billabong’s Americas head who
took leave from the company to pursue the bid.  VF Corp. (VFC)  is mainly interested in the Billabong brand, the
Greensboro, North Carolina-based company said in a statement
Jan. 14. The label, which Billabong in August said was valued at
A$252 million, was written down to A$30 million at first-half
results in February, amid falling orders in  Europe  and
Australia.  A measure of  consumer confidence  in Billabong’s home
market, which returned just four positive readings in the past
12 months, jumped to its highest level since 2010 last month
after the country’s central bank cut  interest rates  to a  half-
century low  in an attempt to stimulate the economy.  “There is clear scope to improve the performance of the
business over the medium term,” Ben Gilbert, a Sydney-based
analyst at UBS AG, wrote in a note to clients March 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  