-- Blackstone Said to Be Poised to Gain Multi Corp. Control
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-04-01T23:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/blackstone-said-to-be-poised-to-gain-multi-corp-control.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s real estate
unit may gain control of Multi Corp. after acquiring almost half
of the European shopping-mall developer’s 900 million euros
($1.2 billion) of corporate debt in the past nine months, said
two people with knowledge of the situation.  Multi, based in Gouda, the Netherlands, told lenders in
March it wouldn’t pay interest on loans it obtained to acquire
land as commercial-property values were peaking, said one of the
people, who asked not to be named because the talks are private.
The prospect that the debt won’t be paid means lenders are more
likely to write down or sell their holdings, the person said.  Gaining control of Multi would give Blackstone a pan-
European retail business, according to one of the people. The
Dutch company operates in 14 European countries and  Turkey ,
according to its website. Were Blackstone to gain control, the
private-equity firm probably would recapitalize the mall
developer, the person said.  Peter Rose, a spokesman for New York-based Blackstone,
declined to comment on a possible deal. Multi didn’t immediately
respond outside regular European business hours to an e-mail
requesting comment about its debt.  Multi’s approximately 900 million euros of debt matures in
March 2015, said a person familiar with the terms. Blackstone’s
European property unit paid about 50 cents per $1 of face value
for the debt it acquired, the person said. Multi’s other lenders
include banks in  Portugal ,  Germany , Spain and the Netherlands,
according to the person.  Blackstone’s purchase of Multi debt was first reported
yesterday by the Financial Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  