-- Block Trades Roar Back in Asia as Stock Markets Rally
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2013-04-02T01:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/block-trades-roar-back-in-asia-as-stock-markets-rally.html
Publicly traded companies in  Asia 
and their investors raised $54.4 billion in share sales this
year, a first-quarter record as a stock market rally allowed
owners including Japan’s government and CVC Capital Partners
Ltd. to unload stakes.  The appetite for shares in listed companies, with public
track records that buyers can scrutinize, contrasts with a
dormant market for initial public offerings. Uncertainty about
global economic prospects also drove a preference for so-called
block trades, sales to fund managers that can be completed in a
matter of hours rather than the weeks or months an IPO takes.  “Block trades can be done over a very quick time frame and
the execution risk is much less than for something like an IPO
process which can stretch out over several months,” said Stuart Byrne, head of  equity capital markets  at law firm Clayton Utz in
Sydney. “Many companies aren’t quite ready to sign up for a
six-month IPO process due to uncertainty over where the market
will be when the sale actually takes place.”  Buoyed by a 5 percent gain in the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP) 
in the first three months of the year, sellers raised $11
billion through block trades in the Asia Pacific region, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s up 53 percent from the start
of 2012, the data show.  Surging Nikkei  The sales were boosted by inflows into regional stock
funds, said Jeff Zajkowski, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s head of
equity capital markets for the region. With about $50 billion
added to 11 Asian equity markets this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, the market for block trades “is wide
open,” he said.  The first-quarter tally for additional share sales,
including block trades, is the highest for any quarter since the
final three months of 2009, when companies and investors in the
Asia Pacific region raised $55 billion, the data show. The
largest sale this year was of an $8 billion stake in  Japan
Tobacco Inc. (2914) , which Japan’s Ministry of Finance sold at a two
percent discount to its market price on March 11.  The benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Index is up more than  40 percent 
since a rally that began in mid-November, while the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index has gained about 12 percent.  Happy Sellers  The gains encouraged sellers including CVC, which together
with Lippo Group raised $1.3 billion selling a stake in
 Indonesia ’s PT Matahari Department Store in March.  Carlyle Group
LP (CG) , the second-largest private equity firm by assets, took in
$796 million for its stake in China Pacific Insurance (Group)
Co. in January.  “There’s a lot of money out there to be put to work and
that is why you’re seeing so much activity,”said Guy Fowler,
head of  investment banking  for Australasia at UBS AG in Sydney.
“Many vendors who have believed for some time the stock has
been undervalued are now happy to look at trading.”  Companies have also moved to take advantage of the demand
for stocks to replenish their coffers. In Hong Kong, China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. raised $3.1 billion from a share sale
in February to fund overseas acquisitions, while Evergrande Real
Estate Group Ltd., a property developer, sold $561 million of
stock in January to repay debt.  Lower Fees  At the same time, proceeds from Asia-Pacific IPOs tumbled
to $5.7 billion in the quarter, the lowest in almost four years,
the data show. Additional share sales outpaced IPOs by a factor
of seven -- the highest since the second quarter of 2009, during
the depths of the global financial crisis.  The drop in IPOs took a toll on investment-banking
revenues, with fees from stock sales in the region dropping to
an four-year low of $553.4 million, according to New York-based
researcher Freeman & Co.  First-time share sales typically yield higher fees. When
 Japan  sold the Japan Tobacco stake it paid banks a fee of 0.531
percent of the deal’s size to manage the sale, a government
official said last month. That compares with an average of 2.86
percent paid to underwriters of IPOs in the country last year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Still, companies that have completed IPOs in the region
have fared well, rising an average of 31 percent since their
debut, data compiled by Bloomberg show. This may herald a
rebound in such sales later this year.  “If some of the larger IPOs trade well after pricing, the
market would see a greater level of activity in the second
half,” JPMorgan’s Zajkowski said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  