-- BOE Power Shift Takes Hold as Regulation Role Crystallizes
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-04-02T09:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/boe-power-revamp-takes-effect-as-regulation-role-crystallizes.html
The Bank of  England  officially takes
on powers to regulate the financial industry this week, marking
another step in one of the biggest revamps of the institution in
its three centuries.  Legislation conceived in 2010 came into effect yesterday to
realize the  government’s plan  to scrap the Financial Services
Authority and restore regulation to the central bank, which it
lost when it was given operational independence in 1997. The
institution will also wield new powers for financial stability.  The six-year-old financial crisis has prompted a rethink of
the Bank of England’s role in the economy, and it’s already
embraced its new tools, ordering banks last week to raise more
capital against potential losses and to better account for
risks. Further changes are afoot as officials revamp its
monetary-policy mandate before the arrival of Mark Carney to
replace Mervyn King as governor in July.  “It’s arguable the scope of the powers, the range of
powers, is now greater than any other central bank,” said
Charles Goodhart, a founding member of the BOE’s Monetary Policy
Committee in 1997. “The bank has got a lot at stake over the
next few years and there’s going to be awful pressure on the
incoming governor.”  Banking supervision will be done by the Prudential
Regulation Authority, a new unit of the central bank. In
addition to taking on 1,300 staff from the now-defunct FSA, the
BOE’s Financial Policy Committee, charged with assessing broad
risks in the financial system, is now operating on an official
basis after two years with interim status.  ‘Herd-Like’ Behavior  “History reveals repeated episodes of herd-like chasing of
high headline returns during exuberant phases of the credit
cycle,” Paul Tucker, deputy governor for financial stability,
wrote in a contribution to a book  published today  by the central
bank. “Eventually that will recur.”  “Nor can we completely eliminate the interlinkages within
the system that can propagate distress,” Tucker said. “But the
emerging new rules of the game can lean against stability-
threatening exuberance and will make the international financial
system much more resilient.”  Conservative Prime Minister David Cameron began the
overhaul after the 2010 election. His government says shifting
financial oversight under one roof, and alongside monetary
policy, will plug holes in the previous system that led
officials to miss signs of the brewing crisis.  System Reset  “The changes coming into effect today are the start of
resetting the system of financial regulation in our country,”
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne will say today,
according to comments issued by his office in advance. “They do
away with the discredited system that failed to sound the alarm
as the financial system went wrong.”  While King has helped steer the change, he will only get to
experience the full results for three months. He is due to
retire at the end of June after two decades at the BOE.  King also won’t have the chance to work with the full
potential scope of the new mandate for the MPC. While Osborne
last month gave the MPC more leeway to meet its inflation
target, he also asked it to review the potential merits of
forward guidance. That assessment isn’t due until August.  BOE Power  In the meantime, the MPC is under pressure to revive
growth. The U.K. is facing the threat of an unprecedented
triple-dip recession even after the central bank cut its key
rate to a record low, pumped  375 billion pounds  ($570 billion)
into the economy and started a program to stoke lending.  The concentration of so much power in one institution has
led to calls from lawmakers for greater oversight. Andrew Tyrie,
chairman of the cross-party parliamentary committee that
scrutinizes the central bank and the Treasury, has led
questioning on the BOE’s governance and operations.  “The old approach to the Bank of England, which is a very
strong top-down and very centralized decision making, is going
to be challenged with this set of responsibilities,” said Jens Larsen, chief European economist at RBC Capital Markets in
London and a former BOE official. “It’s already being
challenged by the circumstances they find themselves in, and the
way Mark Carney and the organization responds is key.”  Axel Weber, the chairman of UBS AG and former president of
 Germany ’s Bundesbank, expressed concern about new central-bank
powers during a debate in London last week with King and Federal
Reserve President Ben S. Bernanke. In addition to a potential
“diversion from the core mandate,” he said it may be a risk to
pile so much responsibility in one place.  “As they get a larger core role in the economy, we do have
to see the downside this could potentially mean,” Weber said.
“It heightens the risk that a central bank, if they get it
wrong, they could get it wrong across a number of issues.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  