-- Bovespa Plunging as Earnings Miss Estimates: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-01T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/bovespa-plunging-as-earnings-miss-estimates-corporate-brazil.html
Brazilian stocks are handing
investors the worst returns in  Latin America  as companies post
the longest streak of earnings misses in six years.  Forty-two companies of the Bovespa index’s 64 members
trailed analysts’  earnings estimates  in the fourth-quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was the fifth
straight period that more than half the companies included in
the benchmark fell short of projections, the longest such string
of disappointments since 2007. Seventy-one percent of companies
in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  exceeded fourth-quarter
forecasts.  Combined net income for Bovespa companies fell 61 percent
in the last quarter of 2012 from a year earlier, while sales
increased 7.1 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Accelerating inflation amid the slowest economic growth since
2009 has made it difficult for them to turn sales gains into
profit increases, said Andres Calderon, a portfolio manager at
Hansberger Global Investors, which oversees $6.2 billion in
assets including $1.1 billion in emerging market stocks.  “Even though the revenue lines have been resilient and
sales growth has been adequate, it doesn’t flow to the bottom
line,” Calderon said in a phone interview from  Fort Lauderdale ,
 Florida . “And to a large extent that’s been because of cost
inflation, primarily labor inflation.”  Worst Start  The earnings misses may prevent stocks from rebounding from
the worst start to a year since 1995. The Bovespa has dropped 11
percent from this year’s high on Jan. 3, exceeding the 4.6
percent loss by the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index and trailing the
S&P 500’s 7.5 percent gain. The gauge  trades  at 11.4 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters, above
the ratio of 10.8 for the MSCI index of 21 developing nations’
equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Companies are failing to boost profit as President  Dilma Rousseff  steps up government intervention in industries such as
energy and utilities in an attempt to shore up an economy that
grew 0.9 percent in 2012, according to Armando Senra, head of
Latin America and Iberia region at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   “In Brazil you have the consequences of government
intervention and, at the corporate level, not necessarily the
best execution, so companies haven’t been able to deliver
earnings,” Senra said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
on March 20. “This is why a lot of investors now think maybe
they shouldn’t be in Brazil.”  Consumer Prices  Rousseff’s intervention has included forcing  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the state-run oil producer, to charge below-
market gasoline prices and changing utility contracts to lower
electricity rates in a bid to tame inflation. The central bank
said on March 28 inflationary pressures have spread, increasing
the probability that price increases will breach the upper limit
of the target range for the first time in a decade.  Rousseff’s press office declined to comment on the
performance of those companies when contacted by  Bloomberg News 
and referred questions to the Ministry of Mines and Energy. A
press official at the ministry declined to comment.  MMX Mineracao (MMXM3)  & Metalicos SA, the iron-ore producer
controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , posted a fourth-quarter
loss that was 11 times bigger than analysts had forecast.
Commodities producers, which account for about 41 percent of the
benchmark’s  weighting , missed projections by 39 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Eight of the nine real estate companies included in the
Bovespa trailed earnings estimates. Homebuilder  Rossi
Residencial SA (RSID3)  posted a loss 16 times bigger than estimates.
 Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  reported a loss of 129.3 million reais while analysts
had forecast a profit of 19.7 million reais.  ‘Year to Forget’  While results have disappointed, earnings may improve this
year as economic activity rebounds, said Karina Freitas, an
analyst at brokerage Concordia SA CVMCC, which has 3.7 billion
reais in assets under management.  “Shares already price in the latest earnings,” Freitas
said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo . “2012 was a bad year,
a year to forget. From now on it will be a matter of watching
how 2013 will be. That’s what will be important for equities.”  Brazil ’s economic growth will rebound this year to 3
percent, according to the median of about 100 economists’
forecasts in a weekly central bank survey published on March 25.  Even with bets that growth will bolster earnings, there’s
little room for equities to gain as most stocks already trade at
fair valuations, said Fausto Gouveia, who helps manage 380
million reais at Sao Paulo-based Legan Administracao de
Recursos.  “Companies are reporting earnings that are much worse than
expected but are in line with current prices,” Gouveia said by
phone. “Earnings may improve and the Bovespa index could reach
something close to 60,000. But that possible upside is still too
small to warrant a more bullish stance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  