-- BP Seeks to Halt Some Gulf Oil-Spill Settlement Payments
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-04-02T00:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/bp-seeks-to-halt-some-gulf-oil-spill-settlement-payments.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s lawsuit challenging some
payments under the $8.5 billion Gulf of Mexico oil-spill
settlement should be thrown out because the company is seeking
to change fixed terms in the agreement, spill victims said.  BP’s suit targeting interpretations of the settlement by
court-appointed administrator  Patrick Juneau  is flawed and
should be dismissed, lawyers for oil spill victims who agreed to
resolve their claims said in a filing today in federal court in
New Orleans.  “BP has not set forth facts that give rise to a viable
claim” over Juneau’s interpretation of provisions about
economic-loss claims, the attorneys said in court papers.  The filing comes as BP is set to start its sixth week of
trial tomorrow over claims that the London-based oil company was
grossly negligent in its handling of the Macondo well and was
responsible for the fatal explosion and spill that fouled the
gulf in 2010.  Ellen Moskowitz , an outside BP spokeswoman, had no
immediate comment on the filing by the spill victims. Moskowitz
is a partner with the New York-based Brunswick Group.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans, who is
presiding over the nonjury trial of liability for the worst
offshore spill in U.S. history, previously declined to force
Juneau to alter his interpretation of the settlement terms to
match BP’s expectations.  ‘Fictitious Losses’  BP contends in court papers that Juneau’s interpretation of
the settlement accord includes claims the oil company “never
contemplated” paying. The firm’s lawyers also argue the
administrator is exposing BP to millions of dollars in
“fictitious losses” as a result of Juneau’s reading of the
pact.  BP said two-thirds of all business economic-loss payments
larger than $75,000 have been based on “flawed data.” The
company also contends that more than 1,200 payments have been
made to claimants in the agriculture, construction and
professional services industries that are too remote from the
area impacted by the spill to qualify for compensation.  In today’s filing, lawyers for spill victims said Juneau
has no power to revise his interpretation of the settlement to
conform with BP’s view given Barbier’s approval of the accord
last year.  The administrator had no authority “to adopt BP’s proposed
framework for calculating variable profit, regardless of whether
it would be a reasonable approach, because it would be
inconsistent with the court’s interpretation of the language of
the settlement agreement,” the lawyers said.  Uncapped Accord  The uncapped accord resolved most private plaintiffs’
claims for economic loss and property damage related to the
explosion of the Deepwater Horizon rig in April 2010 and the
ensuing spill.  The accord excludes claims of financial institutions,
casinos, private plaintiffs in parts of Florida and  Texas , and
residents and businesses claiming harm from the Obama
administration’s moratorium on deep-water drilling prompted by
the spill.  It also doesn’t cover federal government claims and those
of Gulf Coast states  Louisiana  and  Alabama , or lawsuits against
co-defendants.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  