-- Bragging Rights to 212 Won’t Be a New York State of Mind
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-04-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/bragging-rights-to-212-won-t-be-a-new-york-state-of-mind.html
One of  Manhattan ’s status symbols, a
telephone number starting with 212, would lose some of its
exclusivity under a U.S. move to sever the link between
geography and area codes.  Voice-over-Internet providers led by  Vonage Holdings Corp. (VG) 
want direct access to the national pool of unused numbers. That
would end their reliance on middlemen tied to  area codes  and
offer new freedom to assign numbers regardless of location.  With the change would go a bit of urban culture celebrated
in television’s “Seinfeld,” when character Elaine Benes
 schemes  to get a dead neighbor’s 212 number, and in the “Sex
and the City” movie, in which Carrie Bradshaw wails she’s “a
917 gal” who deserves New York’s oldest mobile area code.  “I’m very dead set on a 917 or 212, because I’m not one of
the new people,” said Diana Mitchell, a sales and rental agent
with broker Citi Habitats, based in Manhattan.  A 212 number shows clients “I’m not sitting in some
borough somewhere,” Mitchell said in an interview. “They
think, and I immediately think, ’office in Manhattan.’”  Federal Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski  wants to let Vonage directly draw numbers as a trial
while the agency considers rules to let more companies do the
same. Vonage, in a petition, told the agency direct access to
numbers would cut its spending on leasing numbers from carriers.  The proposal “would put us on a path to delink numbers
from geography,” Genachowski said at a March 20  news
conference . “But it’s not about the delinking as much as it’s
about ensuring that any entity that’s providing a communications
service has access to numbers.”  Trial Number  Vonage, based in Holmdel, New Jersey, now buys access to
numbers including their area codes from middlemen, such as  Level
3 Communications Inc. (LVLT) , that have government authorization to
pull from the pool maintained by the  North American Numbering
Plan Administration , a neutral overseer run by  NeuStar Inc., (NSR) 
based in Sterling, Virginia. Level 3 opposes the change.  Phone companies long ago took custody of the entire 212
pool of more than 7 million numbers, John Manning, senior
director at the numbering administration, said in an interview.  About 19 percent of numbers in the 212 area code were
available in 2009, among the lowest percentages in the U.S.,
according to an FCC report.  “If you’re in the right location with the right carrier at
the right time, you can get them,” Manning said.  Numbers can become available when subscribers move away or
die, when businesses fail, and when carriers go out of business.  Phone Future  The numbering inquiry is part of the FCC’s look at whether
its rules are keeping pace with technological change. About 93
percent of U.S. households took telephone service over a wire
from a traditional provider in 2003. That’s dropped to 26
percent as mobile phones and wired-Internet services grabbed
most of the market, according to an  estimate  by USTelecom, a
Washington-based carriers’ trade group.  Largest phone company  AT&T Inc. (T)  wants the FCC to pare rules
governing services driven by Internet technology. Like AT&T,
which  supports  its petition, Vonage sees a changing world.  “Direct access to phone numbers is the future of
telecommunications,” Kurt Rogers, chief legal officer for
Vonage, said in an e-mail. “It allows for lower-cost, higher-
quality voice service.”  Vonage’s Opponents  Vonage is seeking a cost advantage and shouldn’t be granted
privileges before broader rulemaking takes place, Level 3, based
in Broomfield,  Colorado , said in a filing joined by Comptel, a
Washington-based trade association that represents carriers.  “Vonage is essentially seeking to obtain the rights of a
carrier without shouldering the corresponding obligations”
states impose to ensure technical and financial soundness,
Michael Shortley III, a Level 3 vice president, said in an
e-mailed statement. Calls might be mishandled by companies
without carriers’ experience, Shortley said.  States need to retain an oversight role to prevent
companies not tied to a locality from running through all
numbers available in a desirable area code, said Brad Ramsay,
general counsel of the National Association of Regulatory
Utility Commissioners, a Washington-based nonprofit that
represents state commissions.  “If a bunch of carriers come in and start exporting those
numbers, for a premium, then the area code exhausts” before it
otherwise would have, Ramsay said in an interview.  212 Cachet  The links between place and phone number have weakened as
people retain numbers when they switch wireless carriers, or to
a voice-over-Internet provider. Consumers have been able for
years to get phone numbers not tied to locations, said Rogers,
the Vonage attorney.  “I think the cachet is largely gone,” Peter Rojas,
founder of technology websites gdgt and Engadget, said in an
interview. “I have a 212 cell number and it’s been a while
since anyone was impressed with that.”  Some New Yorkers don’t want to hear it.  “There is a special category of social signifiers
separating Manhattan-born people from late arrivals and the 212
fits that niche beautifully,” Tero Kuittinen, New York-based
head of sales and marketing, for Alekstra Oy, a mobile-
diagnostics company. “I am convinced that people will be ready
to pay at least $50, maybe $100, for a 212 number.”  David Day hopes so. From Coney Island Avenue in  Brooklyn ,
Day runs 212areacode.com, which sells phone numbers with that
prefix.  “Two-one-two will always be associated with New York --
because of the history,” he said. “Always was, always will
be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net  or
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  