-- Brent-WTI Crude Spread Widens After Exxon Shuts Pipe to Texas
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2013-04-01T02:50:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/brent-wti-crude-spread-widens-after-exxon-shuts-pipe-to-texas.html
West  Texas  Intermediate oil’s
 discount  to London's Brent widened from the narrowest in almost 
nine months after  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  shut a pipeline carrying 
crude from  Illinois  to the U.S. Gulf Coast.  Exxon shut its 96,000 barrel-a-day  Pegasus pipeline  system
on March 29 after a leak spilled heavy Canadian crude near the
town of Mayflower,  Arkansas . The company has collected about
12,000 barrels of oil and water, according to a statement
yesterday from the Mayflower Incident Unified Command Joint
Information Center. The city recommended the evacuation of 22
homes in the area.  The stoppage will mean less crude can be transported from
the U.S. Midwest, potentially exacerbating a glut of oil coming
from  Canada  to the Midwest and depressing U.S. prices relative
to European contracts. U.S.  stockpiles  rose 0.9 percent in
the week ended March 22 to the highest since June and stood 12
percent above the five-year average. Inventories at Cushing,
 Oklahoma , the delivery point for WTI futures, increased 0.9
percent and were 54 percent higher than the average.  “U.S. crude inventories are at a fairly high level right
now and the Pegasus pipeline shutdown will further increase
pressure,” Shi Yan, an analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. in
 Shanghai , said in a phone interview.  The spread increased as much as 23 cents to $13.02 a barrel
today and was at $12.93 at 10:38 a.m. Singapore time. It closed
at $12.79 on March 28, the least since July 4. Brent and WTI
didn’t trade on March 29 because of the Good Friday holiday.  Pegasus is a 20-inch line that runs from Patoka, Illinois,
to Nederland, Texas. The system was carrying Wabasca Heavy Crude
from western Canada at the time of the incident, Kimberly
Brasington, an Exxon spokeswoman, said yesterday.  The company will need to excavate the line to determine the
cause of the breach, Brasington said yesterday.  Fifteen vacuum trucks and 33  storage tanks  have been
deployed to the site of the spill to aid clean up efforts,
according to the Unified Command, which consists of Exxon,
Mayflower and Faulkner County. The company has sent 120 workers
in response.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is categorizing
the incident as a “major spill” as it is larger than 250
barrels. according to the Unified Command statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  