-- Business-Labor Deal Marks Major Step To Immigration Bill
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-04-01T04:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/business-labor-deal-marks-major-step-to-immigration-bill.html
Senators negotiating a bipartisan
accord on U.S. immigration policy expressed optimism yesterday
that a plan will be ready for Senate consideration soon, while
differences remain with Republicans leading the House.  A deal reached over the weekend by business and labor
leaders on allocating visas to low-skilled foreign workers
improves the chances for a bill. Senator  Charles Schumer , a  New
York  Democrat and member of the eight-person negotiating team,
said he expected the bill to reach the Judiciary Committee in
April and the full Senate in May.  “Every major policy issue has been resolved,” Schumer
said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. “I am very, very
optimistic that we will have an agreement among the eight of us
next week.”  Still, Schumer, along with Republicans Jeff Flake of
 Arizona  and  Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina , said there was no
final agreement among the lawmakers because details of
legislation haven’t been finished. The Senate is on recess this
week and returns to Washington April 8.  “We’re much closer with labor and business agreeing on
this guest-worker plan,” Flake said on NBC. “That doesn’t mean
we’ve crossed every ’I’ or dotted every ’T’ or vice-versa.”  The agreement between labor and business groups is designed
to resolve a long-simmering dispute over a proposed guest-worker
program that had been impeding Senate efforts to spearhead the
broadest changes in immigration law in almost 30 years. The
heads of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest
business lobbying group, and the AFL-CIO, the biggest labor
federation, reached the accord late on March 29.  Republican Challenge  Democrats, who control the Senate, will have difficulty
garnering the 60 votes needed for passage in that chamber, and
the Republican-controlled House poses an even greater challenge.  President  George W. Bush , a Republican, tried
unsuccessfully from 2005 to 2007 to get immigration legislation
through Congress. President  Barack Obama ’s push for a smaller-
scale immigration law in 2010 similarly failed.  Florida Senator Marco Rubio, a Republican member of the
Senate group, said in a statement yesterday that, while he was
“encouraged” by the labor-business agreement, it would be
“premature” to assume that the Senate group had reached a
final decision. Any legislation the Senate group endorses “will
only be a starting point,” he said.  “In order to succeed, this process cannot be rushed or
done in secret,” Rubio said.  Citizenship Path  The effort’s centerpiece would establish a 13-year path to
citizenship for the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants
in the U.S., which Democrat Obama has made a priority for his
second term.  House Republicans  may be more open to a path toward
legal residency for the undocumented, rather than citizenship.  Republican opposition to providing a citizenship path, a
major stumbling block in past efforts, has lessened since the
November election, in which Obama won 71 percent of Hispanic
votes cast. Republican leaders have said the party needs to do
more to court the fast-growing voter bloc.  “They will have a path to citizenship but it will be
earned, it will be long, it will be hard,” Graham, a South
Carolina Republican, said on CNN’s “ State of the Union .”  U.S. Chamber of Commerce President  Tom Donohue  and  Richard Trumka , head of the AFL-CIO, reached a verbal agreement during a
conference call with Schumer, according to a person familiar
with the discussion, who spoke on condition of anonymity to
discuss a private call. Schumer called White House Chief of
Staff  Denis McDonough  to alert him to the deal, the person said.  Federal Bureau  The agreement would establish a  federal bureau  called the
Bureau of Immigration and Labor Market Research and a visa
program called the W Visa Program, according to the AFL-CIO. The
bureau would use labor market and demographic information to
identify labor shortages and to help set an annual visa cap. It
would be funded through registered employer fees.  Employers seeking workers in lesser-skilled fields
including hospitality, janitorial services, retail and
construction could apply through the new visa program, which
also would allow workers to petition for permanent status after
working for one year.  The program would start with 20,000 visas in the first
year, 35,000 in the second, 55,000 in the third and 75,000 in
the fourth. In year five the number would grow or shrink based
on a formula that takes into account the  unemployment rate , the
number of  job openings  and other factors.  Visa Cap  The number of visas awarded annually could never exceed
200,000, and one-third of all visas would go only to businesses
with under 25 employees, according to the AFL-CIO. Construction
visas would be capped at 15,000 per year, addressing Trumka’s
concern about a potentially adverse impact on that industry.  The visas are only for non-seasonal, non-agricultural jobs.
Farm workers are covered under an existing H-2A program, which
provides for temporary labor to complete seasonal tasks, mainly
harvests.  The Senate proposal borrows language from a current law
requiring employers to offer visa holders wages and working
conditions that wouldn’t adversely affect the wages and working
conditions of U.S. workers. That means wages must be equal to
the actual level paid by the employer to other workers with
similar experience or the prevailing wage for the job at issue,
whichever is greater.  The measure will probably include a better system for
companies to verify the immigration status of job applicants and
new rules that would prioritize the family members who can
immigrate to the U.S. legally.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  