-- Canada Dollar at Almost 5-Week High as Wagers on Decline Shrink
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-04-01T21:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/canadian-dollar-gains-as-traders-pare-bets-currency-will-decline.html
The Canadian dollar traded at almost
a five-week high against its U.S. counterpart as futures traders
decreased bets on the currency’s decline before data forecast to
show a second consecutive month of job gains.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, fluctuated versus
the greenback after a report on manufacturing in the U.S.,
Canada’s largest trading partner, trailed forecasts in March.
The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and other
large speculators on a decline in the Canadian dollar compared
to those on a gain -- so called net shorts -- was 62,645 March
26 from 65,331 the week before. Canada added 5,000 jobs in
March, according to the median estimate of a Bloomberg survey of
23 economists.  “There was a lot of down pressure on the loonie early in
March and we’ve seen a bit of a lift in the loonie in the last
couple of weeks and part of that has been driven by people
covering their short positions,” said David Doyle, a strategist
at Macquarie Capital Markets by phone from Toronto. “My overall
thesis is that we trade down, because some of this up-move has
been driven by short covering. The fact that’s taken place
should give guys increased confidence that the next leg down is
the next step.”  The loonie was up 0.1 percent at C$1.0168 per U.S. dollar
at 5 p.m. in Toronto. The currency touched C$1.0146 per U.S.
dollar March 28, the highest point since Feb. 20. One loonie
buys 98.35 U.S. cents.  Bond Trades  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bonds rose, pushing
the yield down two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
1.85 percent. The 1.5 percent coupon maturing in June 2023
gained 22 cents to C$96.81.  Futures of crude oil, the country’s largest export fell 0.3
percent to $96.93 per barrel. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
U.S. stocks lost 0.5 percent.  A quarterly report from the International Monetary Fund
showed central banks increased holdings of the Canadian dollar
in the fourth quarter of 2012, according to the Bank of Nova
Scotia.  Central bank holdings of currencies other than the U.S.
dollar, the British pound, the Swiss franc, the euro and the
yen, which includes the Canadian and Australian dollars, rose
6.1 percent to $372 billion, according to the bank.  Reserve Currencies  “As long as this trend stays in place, we can extrapolate
that there’s ongoing buying of CAD and Aussie for reserve
purposes and that buying is significant,” said Camilla Sutton,
head of currency strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia, by phone from
Toronto. “That’s a significant flow for currencies like CAD and
Aussie, which have much less liquidity than currencies like
euro.”  The Institute for Supply Management’s factory index fell to
51.3 in March from 54.2 a month earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-
based group said today. Economists projected a reading of 54 for
the gauge, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey.  “This could be a turning point for U.S. data generally
into the middle part of the year, which has been a trend in
recent years,” said Greg T. Moore, a currency strategist at
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD Securities unit by phone from
Toronto. “The U.S. has had some pretty decent data since the
beginning of the year and there are some worries from the
forecasters that there might be a little bit of a shift lower
from that trend.”  Options Data  Options traders were the least bearish on the loonie in
more than two months. The three-month 25-delta risk reversal
rate fell to 0.89 percentage point, matching the lowest since
Jan. 23, the day the Bank of Canada said slower-than-expected
growth indicates interest-rate increases were less urgent.  The central bank’s downward revision in its growth forecast
sent the loonie on a five-week decline from the week ended Feb.
8 to the week ended March 8, its longest streak of weekly drops
since June.  “There was probably quite a shift in sentiment around the
last couple of BOC meetings where they watered down the
tightening bias, and I think that sort of qualitative, negative
view probably still prevails,” said Adam Cole head of Group of
10 currency strategy in London at Royal Bank of Canada. “Canada
is running quite a large external deficit and needs to fund it
one way or another, and I think the market is worrying about how
easy it is to finance this external funding requirement in the
absence of higher interest rates.”  The Canadian dollar is up 1 percent during the past month
against the currencies of nine other developed nations tracked
by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar
lost 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  