-- Central African Republic Leader Appoints Government
-- B y   C r i s p i n   D e m b a s s a
-- 2013-04-01T17:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/central-african-republic-leader-appoints-government.html
Central African Republic  rebel
leader Michel Djotodia appointed a 34-member government a week
after ousting President Francois Bozize by storming the capital,
Bangui.  Officials from the Seleka rebel movement were given control
of the oil, security, defense and economy ministries, according
to a statement read on state radio yesterday. The government
also includes other opposition members.  Bozize fled the country to neighboring Cameroon on March 24
after the rebels seized Bangui. Seleka a week earlier ended a
cease-fire, agreed on in January, when Bozize failed to meet
rebel demands to double the number of Cabinet posts they hold in
a two-month-old unity government.  The Central African Republic has been plagued by violence
since independence from France in 1960. At least four battles
for Bangui took place from 1996 until 2003, when Bozize toppled
predecessor Ange-Felix Patasse, whom he served as army chief.
Seleka began its rebellion in December after accusing Bozize of
failing to honor a 2008 peace accord. An agreement signed in
Libreville in January ended the fighting and created the unity
government.  Thirteen South African soldiers, who have been in the
country since 2007, were killed in the battle for Bangui. The
South African troops were in Central African Republic to provide
training, Defense Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula said. Seleka
had demanded that Bozize order the soldiers to withdraw before
they ended their cease-fire.  ‘Not Satisfied’  In  Washington , State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland 
stopped short of calling the rebel takeover a coup.  “A coup, as legally understood, generally involves the
military of the country,” she told reporters today. “Here we
have rebels.”  She said the U.S. was “not satisfied” with the way the
country’s new rulers had taken power and urged any future
government of the country be decided in “an inclusive
democratic manner” that respects the Libreville accord. “This
is not that,” she said.  Pangea Diamondfields Inc., an Isle of Man-based exploration
company, owns a concession in Central African Republic that is
currently on care and maintenance, according to the company’s
website.  Axmin Inc. (AXM) , a Canadian gold explorer, said Jan. 7 it
delayed plans to open a mine in the country by at least a year
because of the rebellion.  Areva SA (AREVA) , a French developer of
nuclear reactors, started removing employees from its Bakouma
uranium mine in the Central African Republic after an attack
last year.  The country has a gross domestic product of about $3.6
billion and earns most of its foreign currency from timber and
diamond exports, according to the CIA World Factbook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crispin Dembassa in Bangui at 
 cdembassa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  