-- China Manufacturing Expands at Faster Pace, PMIs Show
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-01T07:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/china-manufacturing-gauge-rises-to-highest-level-in-11-months.html
China ’s  manufacturing  expanded at a
faster pace last month, indicating a recovery in the world’s
second-largest economy is sustaining momentum.  The  Purchasing Managers ’  Index (SHCOMP)  was 50.9, the National
Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said today in Beijing, an 11-month high and up from
50.1 in February. A separate  gauge  from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics rose to 51.6 in March from 50.4. Readings above
50 indicate expansion.  Gauges of output and export orders advanced in the official
survey while an index of input prices declined, a boost for new
Premier Li Keqiang as he seeks to spur expansion without fanning
inflation. The March improvement follows the weakest January-
February growth for factory output since 2009 and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s questioning of the strength of exports.  “We are clearly in a lot better state than we were at the
end of last year,” Alistair Thornton, a Beijing-based economist
at researcher IHS Inc., said in a Bloomberg Television interview,
terming the momentum “modest.” At the same time, the economy
faces “fairly large headwinds” including property curbs and
tighter supervision of so-called shadow banking, he said.  The government PMI was lower than the 51.2 median estimate
of 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. The HSBC index’s
final reading matched the median estimate of 10 analysts. The
preliminary level issued March 21 was 51.7.  ‘Weak’ Recovery  The benchmark  Shanghai  Composite Index of stocks fell 0.1
percent at the close. The gauge dropped 3.9 percent last week,
the most in five weeks, while the  yuan  strengthened for a fifth
straight week and touched a 19-year high.  Today’s reports “reinforce our view of a weak economic
recovery” in the first half and a “sharp slowdown” in the
second half, Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong, said in a note today.  The surveys compare with a quarterly report showing
confidence among big Japanese manufacturers improved by less
than economists estimated. Another HSBC survey showed  South
Korea ’s manufacturing expanded at a faster pace in March.  China’s largest cities, including Beijing and Shanghai,
tightened rules on home purchases, effective yesterday, after
the central government called for stepped-up efforts to cool the
 property market . The nation’s banking regulator told lenders
last week to limit investments of client funds in debt that
isn’t publicly traded and to isolate such risks from their
operations.  Growth Pickup  Economic growth may have accelerated for a second quarter
to 8.1 percent in the first three months of this year, according
to the median estimate in a  Bloomberg News  survey last month.
 Gross domestic product  expanded 7.9 percent in the final three
months of last year after a 7.4 percent gain in the previous
quarter, reversing a seven-quarter slowdown.  Previous figures have presented a mixed picture of the
recovery so far this year. Retail sales had their weakest
January-February growth since 2004, while foreign direct
investment rose for the first time in nine months in February
and industrial companies’ profits gained 17.2 percent in the
first two months of the year.  The official PMI report showed improvement across sub-
indexes. An output gauge rose to 52.7 in March from 51.2 in
February, new orders increased to 52.3 from 50.1 and new export
orders climbed to 50.9 from 47.3. Input prices, a measure of
inflation, declined to 50.6 from 55.5.  Export Figures  Goldman Sachs said in a research report last week that
China’s export statistics probably overstated growth in the last
few months, potentially because companies provided inflated data.  The federation in January increased the number of companies
in its survey to 3,000 from 820 and reclassified the industries
they cover into 21 groups from 31. HSBC’s index is based on
responses from purchasing managers at more than 420 businesses
and is weighted more toward small companies.  Li, who succeeded  Wen Jiabao  as premier last month in a
once-a-decade leadership transition, signaled last week that the
government will take steps this year to loosen state control
over  interest rates  and the yuan as part of efforts to sustain
economic growth.  “China will actively push forward reforms in important
sectors and try to make substantial progress,” the  State
Council , or cabinet, said in a March 27 statement after a
meeting led by Li. The government will work out a plan for
fiscal and tax policy changes this year, according to the
statement.  Great Wall Motor Co., China’s biggest maker of SUVs and
pickup trucks, reported on March 21 that its profit surged to a
record last year, helped by demand for its Haval vehicles. The
Baoding-based automaker’s net income rose 66 percent to 5.69
billion yuan ($916 million) in 2012.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Ailing Tan in  Singapore ,
Zhou Xin and Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing and  Rishaad Salamat  in
 Hong Kong . Editors: Scott Lanman, Andrew Joyce  To contact Bloomberg News on this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  