-- China Overnight Rate Drops Most in a Month as Cash Seen Rising
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-01T08:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/china-overnight-rate-drops-most-in-a-month-as-cash-seen-rising.html
China’s overnight money-market rate
slumped the most in a month on speculation cash supply will rise
after banks met quarter-end  capital requirements .  The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index was 50.9 in March, an 11-
month high, the National Bureau of Statistics and China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said today in Beijing.
The People’s Bank of China drained 57 billion  yuan  ($9.2
billion) from the financial system last week, a sixth weekly
withdrawal, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “Liquidity will become loose since the quarter-end impact
is over,” said Liu Junyu, a bond analyst in Shenzhen at China
Merchants Bank Co., the nation’s sixth-biggest lender. “The
PBOC’s capital draining isn’t big enough to raise fund costs.”  The one-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped 71 basis points to 2 percent as of
4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai , the biggest drop since March 4, according
to a weighted average rate compiled by the National Interbank
Funding Center.  The central bank gauged demand today for sales of 28-day
repurchase contracts and seven-day reverse repo agreements this
week, according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid
at the auctions.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost needed to receive
the floating seven-day repurchase rate, was unchanged at 3.28
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 3.52 percent government bonds due February
2023 dropped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
3.52 percent, according to the Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  