-- China’s Home Prices Increase Most in 26 Months, SouFun Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-01T07:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/china-s-home-prices-post-biggest-gain-in-26-months-soufun-says.html
China ’s March new home prices posted
the biggest gain in more than two years as buyers rushed into
the market ahead of property curbs by local governments, driving
real estate stocks higher.  Prices climbed for the 10th month, rising 1.1 percent to
9,998  yuan  ($1,610) per square meter (10.76 square feet) from
February,  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s biggest real
estate website owner, said in a statement today after a survey
of 100 cities. That’s the biggest increase since January 2011.  “The earlier property policy uncertainty drove quite a lot
of buyers into the market, while supply, usually low in the
first quarter, couldn’t catch up with the demand,” said Zhao Zhenyi, a Shanghai-based property analyst at Industrial
Securities Co. “Home sales will weaken in the coming months as
more local governments announce curbs for the cities.”  About 17 cities have issued details of property curbs by
the end of the first quarter. The capital city of Beijing banned
single-person households from buying more than one residence,
while Shanghai prohibited banks from giving credit to third-home
buyers, the local governments said over the weekend.  Home prices rose 3.9 percent last month from a year ago,
according to the SouFun statement.  A  gauge  tracking property shares advanced 0.9 percent at
the close of trading in Shanghai, the most among five industry
groups on the  Shanghai Composite Index. (SHCOMP)  The benchmark measure
fell 0.1 percent.  Safe Haven  The measures come a month after former Premier  Wen Jiabao 
ordered the central bank during his last days in office to raise
down-payment requirements for second mortgages in cities with
excessive cost gains and told local governments with the biggest
price pressures to tighten home-purchase limits.  “Property is seen as safe haven against inflation, against
all sorts of changes in economic cycle,” Pauline Loong,
managing director of Asia-Analytica Research in  Hong Kong , said
in a Bloomberg Television interview with  Rishaad Salamat . “So
you have a curb, so the money stops for a while; the minute they
see a loophole, the minute they see something, the money goes
back in, so the demand is there.”  The southern city of Zhanjiang in  Guangdong province  had
the biggest gain last month from February, with prices
increasing 3.7 percent, SouFun said. Home values in the capital
Beijing added 2.9 percent, while those in Shanghai, the
country’s financial center, jumped 0.5 percent from February.  The measures by local governments were less stringent than
investors had expected, which reflect a “tug-of-war between the
local and central governments,” Ting Lu, chief economist for
 Greater China  at Bank of America Corp., wrote in a note to
clients today.  More than two-thirds of Chinese residents, or 68 percent
surveyed, find property prices too high, the most since the
final quarter of 2011, the People’s Bank of China said in a
quarterly release on March 19. More than a third, or 34.4
percent, said  home prices  will rise in the coming three months.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  