-- China Cited by U.S. for Trade Barriers on Autos, Steel, Beef
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-04-01T20:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/china-cited-by-u-s-for-trade-barriers-on-autos-steel-dvds.html
China continues to restrict U.S.
producers of autos, steel and beef from gaining access to its
markets, and its protection of intellectual-property rights
remains inadequate, the U.S. Trade Representative’s office said.  While the Asian nation has made progress opening its
markets to foreign competition, “some serious problems remain,
such as China’s refusal to grant trading rights for certain
industries,” according to the agency’s annual  report  to
Congress on trade barriers, released today. The USTR also
released two other reports covering  health  and  regulatory  trade
barriers in China and other countries.  “These reports identify the barriers as well as the
initiatives that USTR is undertaking to secure market access for
made-in-America goods and services across the globe,” acting
U.S. Trade Representative Demetrios Marantis said on a
conference call with reporters.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is seeking to
bolster enforcement of commerce rules as it pursues two trade
deals, one with 10 other Pacific-region nations and another with
the 27-nation European Union. Last year the White House created
a unit led by USTR and Commerce Department officials to better
police trade laws.  Policies Examined  China, the world’s second-largest economy, after the U.S.,
received the most-lengthy mention in the 406-page “National
Trade Estimate” report, which examined policies in 57 major
trading partners, the 27-nation European Union, Taiwan, Hong
Kong and the 22-member Arab League.  Since the beginning of 2012, the U.S. has filed complaints
against China at the Geneva-based World Trade Organization over
goods including autos and rare-earth elements. Trade tensions
have risen between the two nations over government support for
clean-energy programs. The U.S. trade deficit with China last
year reached a record $315 billion, according to the Census
Bureau.  The USTR cited Chinese policies that favor domestic
fertilizer producers and set high thresholds for U.S. bank and
insurance companies to enter its markets as examples of trade
barriers. It also said China has “persistent inadequacies” in
protecting intellectual property rights on goods such as books
and software.  ‘Buy National’  The report examined a variety of trade barriers, including
tariffs, export subsidies, “buy-national” policies, bribery
and corruption.  “In recent years, the United States has observed a growing
trend among our trading partners to impose localization
barriers” that favor domestic industries at the expense of
foreign competitors, the USTR said in the report. Preferential
policies for Brazil’s auto sector and Nigeria’s oil and gas
sector were cited as examples.  The USTR said U.S. negotiators in 2012 were able to remove
barriers to American beef in Japan, kept open China’s $1.3
billion market for fish and eased U.S. telecommunications
exports to Israel, among other achievements.  Representatives Sander Levin of Michigan and Charles Rangel
of New York on March 28 asked the administration to curb China’s
alleged cyber theft of trade secrets from U.S. companies.  The lawmakers, senior Democrats on the House Ways and Means
Committee, want the USTR to designate China as a top violator of
intellectual property rights, which could lead to further trade
restrictions. A USTR report on trade and intellectual property
is scheduled to be released around April 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Enoch at 
 denoch@bloomberg.net  