-- China’s Stock Futures Drop After PMI Gauge Misses Estimates
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-01T01:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/china-s-stock-futures-drop-after-pmi-gauge-misses-estimates.html
China’s stock-index futures  fell,
signaling declines for the benchmark index, after a
manufacturing gauge missed economist estimates.  Futures on the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  expiring in April lost 0.9
percent to 2,470.60 as of 9:20 a.m. local time. The  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index was 50.9 in March, the National Bureau of
Statistics and  China  Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said
today in Beijing. That compares with 50.1 in February and the
51.2 median estimate of 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced less than 0.1 percent
to 2,236.62 on March 29. The CSI 300 Index declined 0.2 percent
to 2,495.08. Hong Kong’s market was shut on March 29 for a
public holiday and is closed today as well.  “The PMI indicates the recovery is going on but the
strength is a bit weaker than expected,” said  Wang Zheng ,
Shanghai-based chief investment officer at Jingxi Investment
Management Co., which manages $120 million. “The current stock
prices have already priced in the weak economic recovery. If we
need the market to rise again, we’ll need to see something
exceeding expectations.”  The  Shanghai  index dropped 1.4 percent this year amid
concern steps to cool property prices will drag on economic
growth and as company earnings trailed estimates. It is valued
at 9.1 times projected 12-month earnings, the lowest level since
December and less than the seven-year average of 15.8, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Inner Mongolia Baotou Steel Rare-Earth Hi-Tech Co. (600111) , China’s
biggest producer of rare earth, may decline after profit fell 57
percent last year. Health-care stocks may move after health
officials said two people died and one other is ill with bird
flu.  Property Curbs  Developers may be active today. China’s largest cities,
including Beijing and Shanghai, tightened rules on home
purchases after the nation asked local governments to step up
efforts to cool the  property market .  Beijing banned single-person households from buying more
than one residence while Shanghai prohibited banks from giving
credit to third-home buyers, according to the local
administration websites. The two cities will also enforce a 20
percent tax on  capital gains  from property sales.  Detailed property curbs, especially in second-tier cities,
are much milder than expected, Jinsong Du, an analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG, wrote in a report dated yesterday. Housing
prices will remain strong in the near term and property stocks
may have a near-term rally, according to the report.  Pharmaceutical stocks may move today. Three cases of
infection with H7N9 avian influenza have been diagnosed in
Shanghai and Anhui provinces, and two of the victims died, the
National Health and Family Planning Commission said yesterday.  Of the 281 companies in the Shanghai Composite that have
released full-year earnings results, 64 percent missed analysts’
estimates, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Chinese
listed companies are required to release annual and first-
quarter reports by the end of April.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Darren Boey, Chan Tien Hin  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  