-- Christie’s Tax Breaks Didn’t Close Gap in Employment Rate
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-04-01T18:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/christie-s-tax-breaks-didn-t-close-gap-in-employment-rate.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
has awarded $2.1 billion in tax breaks to businesses in three
years, a strategy that has failed to close the gap between the
state and U.S. unemployment rates, according to a report.  The incentives are 40 percent higher than the $1.5 billion
given in the previous 10 years, according to New Jersey Policy
Perspective, a Trenton-based nonprofit group that advocates for
measures that would benefit the poor. Its president, Gordon MacInnes, is a former Democratic state lawmaker.  Christie, 50, a Republican seeking a second term, gave tax
credits and grants to companies, including electronics-maker
 Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and casino-operator Revel Entertainment Group,
in an effort to create jobs. While the state unemployment rate
fell to 9.3 percent in February from 9.5 percent in January, it
is 1.6 percentage points above the U.S. average. Job growth
after the 18-month recession that began in December 2007 lags
behind neighboring states, the report found.  “Efforts to spur economic growth through aggressively
awarding subsidies have not borne fruit,” Jon Whiten, deputy
director of the policy group, wrote in the report. “While it is
important to take the long view on economic-development tools,
one would expect some short-term gains to be realized by the
sheer volume of grants awarded in the past three years.”  ‘Notoriously Biased’  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, dismissed the
group as “notoriously biased” and “simply not credible.” The
report uses estimated employment figures, rather than actual
jobs created, and fails to mention private investment made as a
result of the awards, Drewniak said in an e-mail.  The state’s Business Employment Incentive Program, which
has awarded $1.5 billion since its 1996 creation, has led to
$12.7 billion in non-government spending, Drewniak said. Those
grants have supported the creation of 101,900 jobs, according to
the Economic Development Authority, which awards them.  “States are competing aggressively to keep companies,
attract new ones and to retain and grow jobs,” Drewniak said.
“This ‘study’ simply fails to consider the disadvantage we’d be
in without effective job retention and business-incentive
programs.”  Revel Break  Since Christie took office in January 2010, the business-
incentive program awards have included $25 million to Bayer
HealthCare Pharmaceuticals LLC; $12.4 million to  Citibank (C) ; and
$9.2 million to  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  The state channels back to the
employer as much as 80 percent of personal income taxes paid by
each new employee.  Such programs were created with bipartisan support and
sponsorship in the legislature, Drewniak said. Democrats control
both houses.  Panasonic, based in  Osaka ,  Japan , got $102.4 million from
Christie to move its North American headquarters and 1,000 jobs
to  Newark  from Secaucus after the company had threatened to move
out of the state. The governor promised Revel $261 million in
tax reimbursements to help restart construction of the first new
Atlantic City casino in nine years. The owner filed for
bankruptcy last month, 11 months after the resort opened.  In all, Christie has given $2.1 billion to 171 projects by
businesses that promise to create jobs, the study found.  “This is the only strategy being employed” for economic
development, MacInnes told reporters at a news conference in
Trenton today.  “It is a strategy which says that if we give incentives
that are not realized for years to come in the form of jobs
created and taxes forgiven, that that would be sufficient to get
us out of this mess,” MacInnes said. “It’s not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  