-- Cold Makes Last Stand in East Before Warmer Temperatures Return
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-04-01T12:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/cold-makes-last-stand-in-east-before-warmer-temperatures-return.html
The last cold snap of a weather
pattern that has kept temperatures down and contributed to a
series of late-winter snowstorms will push through the eastern
U.S. this week.  Temperatures across the eastern U.S., with the exception of
New  England  and  Florida , are expected to range from 3 to 5
degrees Fahrenheit (2 to 3 Celsius) below normal today until
April 5, according to Matt Rogers, president of the Commodity
Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland. New England and Florida
will have seasonal temperatures.  “The final surge of colder weather associated with the
strong March blocking appears to flush through the eastern two-
thirds of the U.S. this week, making way for a new pattern to
unfold by next week,” Rogers said in a note to clients.  The U.S. heating season, when natural gas demand is
heaviest, ends with March. April is the start of a transition to
warmer weather, when more energy is used to cool, rather than
heat, homes.  Until heat builds in the Northern Hemisphere’s summer, the
impact of the weather on energy prices is less noticeable. About
50 percent of U.S. households use gas for warmth.  The change in the weather pattern is expected to push
temperatures up to 5 degrees above normal along much of the East
Coast from  Maine  to South Carolina from April 11 to 15,
according to Rogers. Seasonal temperatures are expected to
dominate elsewhere, except the Southwest, where warmer weather
may prevail, and  Montana  and the upper Great Plains, which may
be cooler.  The normal average temperature on April 1 in  New York  City
is 47 degrees Fahrenheit (8 Celsius), according to  MDA Weather
Services  in Gaithersburg, Maryland. In  Boston , it’s 43; in
Chicago, 44; in Houston, 67; in St. Louis, 52; and in Burbank,
California, it’s 60.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  