-- Colombia’s March Rate Cut May Have Been the Last, Cardenas Says
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-04-01T13:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/colombia-s-march-rate-cut-may-have-been-the-last-cardenas-says.html
Colombia’s surprise half point
 interest rate  reduction in March may bring to an end a cutting
cycle that began in July, Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas
said.  “We are getting close to the end of what the central bank
can do in terms of cutting its interest rates,” Cardenas said
today in an interview on RCN Radio. “You can never say never on
this subject, but we can say that with this measure, the central
bank is taking what could be a final stimulus measure on the
monetary policy side.”  The central bank unexpectedly accelerated the pace of
interest rate cuts at its March 22 policy meeting with the first
half-point cut in almost three years, saying that monetary
stimulus is reaching the economy at a slower pace than it wants.
Colombia has reduced its benchmark rate 2 percentage points
since June, to 3.25 percent, the lowest rate among major Latin
American economies.  Colombians can expect “good news” on mortgage rates this
week, making it a good time to buy real estate in the Andean
nation, Cardenas said. The government is continuing to push the
financial sector to cuts lending rates in line with the central
bank, he said.  The average rate for new mortgages, excluding subsidized
housing, fell to 12.4 percent in February from 13.1 percent
eight months earlier, half as much as the decline in the
benchmark rate. Average mortgage rates rose to 7.7 percentage
points above the government’s benchmark 10-year peso bonds last
month, the most since 2009, according to data from
Titularizadora Colombiana SA, which issues mortgage-backed
bonds.  Weaker Peso  The yield on peso bonds due 2024 has fallen 76 basis points
to 4.90 percent this year. The peso has weakened 3 percent
against the dollar over the same period, to 1821.78 per U.S.
dollar. Cardenas said he expects the peso to depreciate further.  “I believe we are going to about a 1,900 per dollar, and I
hope we get there quickly,” he said.  Gross domestic product expanded 3.1 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, the slowest growth in the Andean
region.  Annual inflation eased to 1.83 percent last month, the
lowest rate since 1955 and outside the central bank’s 2 percent
to 4 percent target range. Colombia and  Chile  are Latin
America’s only major economies with below-target inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Bristow at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net . 