-- Construction Spending in U.S. Rises on Gain in Home Building
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-04-01T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/construction-spending-in-u-s-rises-on-gain-in-home-building.html
Construction spending in the U.S.
rose in February, paced by the highest level of home building in
more than four years.  Outlays climbed 1.2 percent to an $885.1 billion annual
rate, following a 2.1 percent decrease in January, the Commerce
Department reported today in Washington. The  median  forecast of
41 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 1 percent rise.  Near record-low borrowing costs and an improved outlook for
jobs are lifting demand for residential real estate, giving a
boost to homebuilders including  KB Home. (KBH)  Faster hiring would
ensure a more sustained rebound in the industry, allowing for
bigger gains in construction spending.  “Housing, growth-wise, will be the best-growing sector of
the major sectors in 2013, hands down.”  Ken Mayland , president
of ClearView Economics LLC in  Pepper Pike , Ohio, said before the
report. “I’m totally optimistic about housing’s recovery--
there’s an inevitability that it has to go higher.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from no change to
a 2 percent gain. January’s reading was unrevised from the
initial estimate.  Construction spending increased 6.6 percent in the 12
months ended in February before adjusting for seasonal
variations.  Private construction spending advanced 1.3 percent from the
prior month.  Housing Rebound  In housing, outlays climbed 2.2 percent to a $303.4 billion
annualized pace, the strongest since November 2008. The gain was
led by single-family projects, which increased 4.3 percent, and
a 0.5 percent increase in home-improvement spending. Private
non-residential projects rose 0.4 percent, led by construction
of  power plants  and health-care facilities.  Spending on public construction climbed 0.9 percent from
the prior month, the biggest advance since August. State and
local agencies led the advance, while federal outlays dropped
1.1 percent, a second consecutive decrease.  Recent reports indicate a pickup in demand for housing.
Sales of new homes in February capped the best two back-to-back
months in more than four years, the Commerce Department reported
last week. Builders began work on more houses in February and
 permits  for future construction climbed to an annual pace of
917,000, the highest level in almost five years, pointing to a
sustained rebound that will help power the U.S. expansion.  Advances in residential construction probably will give an
even bigger boost to growth this year than in 2012, when it
contributed for the first time in seven years. The gains are
rippling through the economy as improving property values help
restore  consumer confidence  and benefit builders such as Ryland
Group Inc. and  Lennar Corp. (LEN)   Buying Land  KB Home is among companies buying land in anticipation of
increased demand. The Los Angeles-based builder nearly doubled
its spending, to almost $350 million, on land acquisition and
development in the first quarter, and has been raising prices,
Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Mezger  said.  “There is no question we expect continuous strong
growth,” Mezger said on a March 21 earnings call. “We have a
lot of upside in every market that we’re in, and they’re now all
recovering and there’s opportunities in every city.”  In addition to housing, the shale gas boom in Pennsylvania
and other parts of the U.S. is giving a boost to industrial
engineering and construction companies including  Fluor Corp. (FLR)  The
Irving, Texas, company also reports increased activity in the
 Gulf Coast  as companies including  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and South
Africa’s Sasol Ltd. begin work on new petrochemical plants.  The  energy industry  will need to “ramp up our construction
resource capability,” Vice President Kenneth Lockwood said at a
March 21 conference. “It’s an exciting opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  