-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Fall; Bonanza Creek Plans Debt Sale
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-04-01T20:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-decline-before-manufacturing-data.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk dropped after data showed American manufacturing expanded
in March at a smaller rate than the prior period.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 0.8
basis point to a mid-price of 90 basis points at 4:20 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
lowest on a closing basis since traders moved to a new version
of the measure on March 20.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory  index  fell to
51.3 from the prior month’s 54.2, the Tempe, Arizona-based
group’s figures showed today, while the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 54. A reading of 50 is the
dividing line between growth and contraction. Improvement in
economic data may alleviate investor concern that companies will
struggle to repay debt.  “Manufacturing was a little bit weaker than expected, but
generally speaking, the economic numbers are moving in the right
direction,” Marc Pinto, head of corporate bond strategy at New
York-based Susquehanna International Group LLP, said in a
telephone interview.  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Bonanza Bonds  Construction spending in the U.S. rose in February as the
Commerce Department reported today that outlays climbed 1.2
percent to an $885.1 billion annual rate, after a 2.1 percent
drop in January.  Bonanza Creek Energy Inc. (BCEI) , an oil and natural gas company,
is planning to sell $250 million of eight-year notes, according
a person familiar with the offering who asked not to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  Proceeds from the notes, which aren’t callable for four
years, will be used to repay outstanding borrowings under the
Denver-based company’s revolving credit facility. Pricing is
expected later this week, the person said.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 2.4 basis points to 428.3 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  Default Rate  The U.S. trailing 12-month, speculative-grade corporate
default rate rose in March after five months of declines,
according to a report today from  Standard & Poor’s .  The default rate increased to 2.4 percent last month from
2.3 percent in February, an expected uptick, according to  Diane Vazza , an analyst at S&P. The default rate is projected to
increase to 3.4 percent by the end of this year.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt tightened 0.6 basis point to 502.9 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at Standard
& Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  