-- Cyprus’s Dangerous, Necessary Capital Controls
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-01T22:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/cyprus-s-dangerous-necessary-capital-controls.html
Picture not being able to cash a
check, transfer money electronically or withdraw more than $385
a day from your bank. Or imagine being searched by airport
gendarmes making sure you aren’t taking more than $3,800 of your
own money out of the country.  These are the indignities Cypriots must endure after the
country’s $13 billion bank rescue. For the first time in the
history of the single currency, a euro country is imposing
capital controls, even for transfers within the union. It’s as
if  California  barred residents from moving their savings to
banks in  Oregon .  The unfortunate rule of thumb on capital controls is that
they are easy to impose, difficult to enforce and almost
impossible to lift. Iceland, whose banks ran into similar
trouble as Cyprus’s, adopted emergency controls in 2008. Five
years later, they’re still in place.  At first, Cypriot officials pledged that the controls would
last about a week, but quickly revised that to about a month.
Hardly anyone believes even that timeframe. The minute Cyprus
lifts its controls, money will fly to safer havens. Even insured
deposits -- the ones that were protected by the European Union’s
bail-in, which required all other creditors to take losses --
will probably flee.  Cypriot Euros  In imposing capital controls, Cyprus has detached itself
from Europe’s monetary union. A euro deposited in a bank in
Cyprus is no longer worth the same as one deposited in France or
 Germany . It can’t be easily withdrawn, spent or converted, and
is therefore a second-class euro. The consequences are going to
be harsh, with some economists now warning of Greek-like
shrinkage of Cyprus’s gross domestic product. As long as capital
controls are in force, no one is going to buy Cypriot government
or corporate debt, or make direct investments in Cypriot
businesses.  It’s too late to suggest that Cyprus should have been more
prudent. It isn’t too late, though, to warn other countries away
from the practices that caused this debacle. The biggest lesson
is obvious, but worth stating clearly: Don’t let your banks get
too big to save.  Both Iceland and Cyprus buckled under the weight of an
overblown banking sector. Iceland’s was 10 times the size of its
economy; Cyprus’s was eight times, bloated by deposits that came
mostly from wealthy Russians avoiding taxes. But Iceland, at
least, had its own currency which, once devalued, helped soften
the blow.  Another lesson: Beware hot money. Trillions of dollars
circumnavigate the globe in search of yields that well-
regulated, well-capitalized banks simply can’t -- and shouldn’t
-- offer. Once hot money flows into a country’s banking system,
it must be invested to deliver the returns that attracted it in
the first place.  Cypriot banks, flush with about $20 billion from Russians,
put much of that money to work in Greek government bonds. When
those bonds were written down because of the 2011 Greek debt
restructuring, the three largest publicly traded Cypriot banks
lost 6.5 billion euros, sealing their fate.  Luxembourg and Malta, two euro-area countries whose banking
sectors dwarf their national economies, should take heed.
Luxembourg’s financial industry assets are 22 times the size of
its annual output. Bank assets in Malta, which hopes to replace
Cyprus as  Europe ’s newest offshore money haven, are about eight
times the size of its economy.  Resolution Powers  The euro area also needs authority to shut down banks -- a
power similar to what the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
possesses. The  FDIC  is adept at taking over troubled banks,
shutting them down or merging them with healthy banks, and then
reopening them so smoothly that retail depositors hardly even
notice.  The EU’s plans to create a banking union initially
recognized the need for a single resolution authority, but
governments now seem to be retreating from the idea, citing
“bailout fatigue.” If they want to avoid another Cyprus, they
should think again.  The euro area shouldn’t kid itself: Cyprus’s capital
controls, while necessary to prevent the island’s banks from
collapsing, are a break from the principle that a euro is a
euro, no matter which of the 17 currency-union countries you
live, work or travel in. If depositors in other countries start
worrying that their money may one day be similarly trapped in
their domestic banking systems, then the whole single-currency
project will be in jeopardy.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 