-- Points Wins Golf’s Houston Open After Missing Seven of Nine Cuts
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-01T04:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/d-a-points-wins-houston-open-by-one-for-second-pga-tour-title.html
D.A. Points, who missed the cut for
weekend play in seven of his nine previous U.S.  PGA Tour  starts
this year, won the Houston Open to earn a place at golf’s
 Masters Tournament .  Points made a 13-foot par putt on the closing hole
yesterday to clinch a one-shot win. His 6-under-par 66 gave him
a four-round total of 16-under 272. Sweden’s Henrik Stenson and
fellow American Billy Horschel tied for second place at Redstone
Country Club in Humble, Texas.  Points, 36, received $1.08 million for the win, which comes
two years after he got his first PGA Tour title at the Pebble
Beach Pro-Am. Stenson also claimed a Masters berth by gaining
enough points to climb into the top 50 of the Official World
Golf Ranking. The first of golf’s four annual major
championships begins April 11 at Augusta National Golf Club in
Augusta, Georgia.  “I never count myself out,” said Points, whose best
previous finish this year was a tie for 63rd place at the Humana
Challenge in January. “I was just grinding, just trying to wait
and try to find that one thing that like, ‘Boom, there it is.’
Fortunately, it was this week and I capitalized.”  Dustin Johnson  and  Ben Crane  tied for fourth at 14-under
par, while world No. 2 Rory McIlroy tied for 45th place, 10
shots further back. McIlroy had a chance to supplant  Tiger Woods 
atop the world rankings with a win at the Houston Open, yet had
rounds of 73-70-71-70.  McIlroy Playing  While Woods didn’t play at the Houston Open and is off
until the Masters, McIlroy will be in action again this week at
the April 4-7 Texas Open in  San Antonio . McIlroy last week opted
to enter the tournament after originally planning to skip the
final PGA Tour event before the Masters.  “If it was a par-3 course, I’d go and play it, because
that’s what I need,” McIlroy told reporters after closing his
final-round 70 with back-to-back birdies. “I need competitive
golf and committing to targets. As long as I have that and a
scorecard in my hand, that’s what I need.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  