-- Dell CEO Says Business Unit Making Progress Amid LBO Talks
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-04-02T14:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/dell-ceo-says-business-unit-making-progress-amid-lbo-talks-1-.html
Dell Inc. Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Dell , seeking to rally employees amid buyout
negotiations, said he’s made headway in efforts to transform the
computer maker into a broader provider of business products.  Dell said he intends to swipe the No. 1 market-share spot
in servers from rival  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  this year, according
to a memo obtained by Bloomberg. He also said that he’ll step up
investments in personal computers, tablets and  emerging markets 
even while seeking to cater more to business customers,
reiterating plans outlined in a March 29 regulatory filing.  The CEO’s memo yesterday lays out his plans for burnishing
Dell’s lackluster  performance , including boosting PC
investments; pushing deeper into Brazil, China, India and
 Russia ; and staffing up in research and development and sales to
penetrate corporate data centers. Dell is seeking to take his
company private in a $24.4 billion leveraged buyout led by
Silver Lake Management LLC and weighing counterproposals by
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and billionaire investor  Carl Icahn .  “We’ve made so much progress in building out our
enterprise capabilities,” the CEO and founder wrote.  The stock fell less than 1 percent to $14.21 at 10:28 a.m.
in  New York , 4.1 percent above the buyout offer price of $13.65
a share.  Michael Dell will only consider backing a buyout by
Blackstone Group LP if the private-equity firm guarantees he can
remain as CEO, according to a person familiar with the
discussions.  LBO Rationale  In several recent meetings in Austin,  Texas , with Chinh Chu
and  David Johnson  -- the Blackstone executives overseeing the
firm’s bid -- Michael Dell said he would be more likely to
support their proposal if he retained an influential role, a
second person familiar with the talks said.  Dell (DELL) , in last week’s filing, gave his rationale for seeking
an LBO rather than remaining a publicly traded company. Making
the needed investments while trading on public markets would be
“poorly received” by investors because that would “weaken
earnings and cause greater volatility” in the stock price, Dell
told the board during a presentation in December, according to
the document.  In the memo, Dell said he’s asked the group led by
enterprise-solutions president Marius Haas to lead the effort in
fiscal 2014 to unseat Hewlett-Packard in servers, the powerful
machines that handle demanding computing tasks.  “It is an exciting and achievable goal, which will put us
in a strong position,” he wrote.  Sales Forecast  Hewlett-Packard had 26.5 percent of global  server shipments 
in the fourth quarter, followed by Dell with 21.3 percent of the
market, according to market researcher Gartner Inc. Dell sees
server sales as an effective platform on which to sell other
high-margin data-center gear, such as storage and networking
devices, that Dell has acquired.  The turnaround plan would also seek  revenue  growth in PCs
and tablets instead of protecting profit margin, while adding
engineering and sales staff to compete for customers’ spending
on data-center software and equipment, Dell said in the memo and
regulatory filing.  Dell said today that it’s introducing a subscription-based
PC support service and releasing new enterprise software
designed to make corporate computers run more efficiently.  Dell’s board is predicting another year of  lackluster
growth  in fiscal 2014 as demand for PCs ebbs. Sales for the year
ending in January will slip to $56.5 billion, and Dell’s PC
business will shrink by $10 billion over four years, according
to projections outlined in the filing. Operating income will be
stagnant at $3 billion, the document shows.  “There’s a lot of work that needs to be done, but also an
extraordinary long-term opportunity if we get it right,” Dell
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  