-- LDK Tops Slump as SouFun Drops on Housing Curbs: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-04-01T21:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/ldk-tops-slump-as-soufun-drops-on-housing-curbs-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  fell in New York,
led by solar stocks, after a government index showed
manufacturing expanded less than economists predicted and the
country’s largest cities tightened rules on home purchases.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. sank 1 percent to a two-week low
of 91.29 yesterday.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the world’s second-biggest
solar wafer maker, tumbled to the lowest level in almost four
months and  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  plunged a fourth day as
industry executives said the company’s default last month will
make it difficult for peers to obtain credit. Real estate
website owner  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  slid to a one-week low.  China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index was 50.9 in March,
government data released yesterday showed, below the 51.2 median
estimate of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Manufacturing in the U.S. also expanded less than forecast in
March, according to data from the  Institute for Supply
Management . Beijing, Shanghai and other major cities released
rules over the weekend to limit home purchases after the central
government tightened regulations to rein in housing prices.  “We are not seeing the big growth out of China that many
investors were hoping for, that’s concerning,” Paul Zemsky, the
New York-based head of asset allocation for ING Investment
Management Co., which oversees $170 billion, said by phone.
“The Chinese stock market is definitely underperforming the
U.S., which is very disappointing, as we had expected China to
outperform by this time. The property measure may dent the
economy in the near term as housing has been a source of
growth.”  ETF Slumps  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., dropped 1.2 percent to $36.48
in New York, after losing 8.7 percent in the first quarter. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  declined 0.4 percent to 1,562.17 as
the index for American manufacturing weighed on industrial
shares. The S&P jumped 10 percent last quarter, while the
Bloomberg China-US gauge slipped 7 percent.  Suntech, the world’s biggest solar-panel maker in 2011,
sank 7.7 percent to 36 cents in the U.S., extending a four-day
loss to 20 percent.  LDK, based in Xinyu, China, tumbled 8.2 percent to $1.01,
the lowest close since Dec. 7.  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) ,
the largest solar panel maker globally by shipments, fell 7.9
percent to $1.75, the lowest price since Dec. 10.  Suntech defaulted on $541 million of convertible notes and
eight banks filed a bankruptcy petition for its main unit last
month. Yingli Chief Financial Officer Bryan Li,  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) 
CFO Terry Wang and JA Solar Holdings Co. Chief Operating Officer
Xie Jian said in separate interviews that they expect credit
will be difficult to obtain and that they have no plans to sell
debt.  Home Prices  JinkoSolar Holding Co.’s sale of 800 million yuan ($129
million) of bonds due January 2019 earlier this year is the only
industry issuance in the last ten months, compared with two
sales in the first half of 2012 that raised 2.5 billion yuan and
six during 2011 valued at 6.2 billion yuan, according to data
from Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  SouFun, owner of China’s largest real estate information
website, slid 2.8 percent to $25.47 in New York, the lowest
close since March 21.  E-House China Holdings Ltd. (EJ) , a property
agent based in Shanghai, slipped 2.2 percent to a three-week low
of $4.55.  About 17 Chinese cities had issued details of property
curbs by the end of the first quarter. Beijing banned single-
person households from buying more than one residence, while
Shanghai prohibited banks from giving credit to third-home
buyers, local governments said over the weekend.  New Oriental  New home prices in China climbed 1.1 percent last month
from February, Beijing-based SouFun said in a statement
yesterday, based on a survey of 100 cities. That’s the biggest
increase since January 2011.  New Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc. (EDU) , China’s
largest private education company, sank 2.8 percent to $17.49 in
New York, the steepest decline in four weeks.  Ambow Education Holding Ltd. (AMBO) , a tutoring company based in
Beijing, plunged 39 percent in the five days through March 22
before trading halted in the U.S. pending an announcement.
Baring Private Equity Asia Ltd. terminated a buyout offer for
Ambow March 25, saying the resignation of three directors made
it impossible to proceed with the deal.  Yongye Buyout  Yongye International Inc. (YONG) , a Beijing-based fertilizer maker
that received a going-private proposal in October, said buyers
confirmed that they are still interested in continuing with the
deal in a statement yesterday.  The group, including Chairman Wu Zishen, Morgan Stanley’s
private equity unit and Hong Kong-based Abax Global Capital
Ltd., offered to buy the company at $6.6 per share. Yongye said
fourth-quarter adjusted net income was 34 cents per share with
sales rising 59 percent to $71.3 million. Trading in its shares
was suspended March 15 in the U.S.  Bona Film Group Ltd. (BONA) , a film company based in Beijing,
tumbled 6.5 percent to a three-month low of $4.3 in New York
before its planned earnings release after U.S. trading closed.
 Renren Inc. (RENN) , a real-name social networking website operator in
China, sank 4.5 percent to a record low of $2.76.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  apologized for
the company’s iPhone warranty and repair policies in China after
criticism over  customer service  in its second-largest market.
Apple is changing its practices to offer full replacements of
older iPhones experiencing problems, Cook said in a letter
posted on the company’s Chinese website yesterday.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese shares
slipped 0.1 percent to 2,234.40 yesterday, after dropping 1.4
percent during the first three months of this year. Hong Kong’s
stock market was closed for a holiday yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  