-- The Euro Can’t Afford Dijsselbloem’s Rookie Mistakes
-- B y   M e l y v n   K r a u s s
-- 2013-04-01T22:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/the-euro-can-t-afford-dijsselbloem-s-rookie-mistakes.html
How is it that a man like Jeroen Dijsselbloem, with no knowledge of or experience in financial
markets, can get appointed to lead the euro-area group of
finance ministers, one of the most influential and sensitive
jobs in  Europe ?  Dijsselbloem may be the  Netherlands ’ finance minister, but
his  background  is as an agricultural economist and right-hand
man to the head of the Dutch Labor Party. Neither his training
nor his experience gives him insight into the workings of
currencies or global financial markets.  Mark it up to the way business is done in Europe. It’s an
important source of the missteps that the euro area has made in
trying to resolve its debt crisis.  Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker left the leadership post
in January. The Germans didn’t want a Frenchman to replace him,
and the French didn’t want a German in the job. Nothing new
there. So the two largest euro-area countries compromised. They
picked a Dutchman because Holland is a small country (Luxembourg
is even smaller) and hasn’t had a senior European Union
appointment in a long time. Merit didn’t enter the equation.  Sowing Doubt  Dijsselbloem’s contributions to the contentious Cyprus
bailout negotiations last week bear out his lack of experience
and may yet do real damage to the euro area by sowing ever more
doubt in the minds of investors and depositors about the
intentions of the currency zone’s top policy makers.  This is an endemic problem for the EU, where political
horse-trading can leave underqualified, second-rank candidates
in top positions, from the European Commission to the high
representative for the bloc’s common foreign policy. Perhaps the
large countries such as  Germany  prefer it this way, to keep
power centered in their national capitals -- but this comes at a
severe cost.  Imagine for a moment what situation the  U.S. economy  would
be in if Treasury secretaries were picked in the same way -- on
the basis of what part of the country they hailed from and which
state was next in line for a big job.  You might not like their policies or connections to  Wall
Street , but  Timothy Geithner  and  Henry Paulson  are experienced
professionals. Dijsselbloem is by comparison an inexperienced
amateur in finance, who talks bluntly and has a strong streak of
Dutch morality. Other top European officials, who do know what
they are doing, were seething with anger after he told reporters
last week that the latest Cyprus deal, which includes closing a
bank and bailing-in depositors, should serve as a template for
the entire euro area.  Did Dijsselbloem think for an instant about what impact his
so-called template surprise would have on financial markets? Did
he consider, for example, that small banks in  Italy ,  Portugal 
and  Spain  would face increased stress due to an exodus of funds
now searching for safer harbors? Or that large depositors all
over the euro area would now have a strong incentive to get out
of European banks and the euro, causing damage to both?  Europe’s banks are fragile as it is. The last thing they
needed was for a Dutch moralist to freelance his personal views
as the euro area’s bailout policy.  Dijsselbloem already showed a penchant for making investors
in ailing banks pay, when only a few weeks ago he nationalized
 SNS Reaal (SR) , a Dutch lender, wiping out bondholders in the
process. But EU officials were stunned when the novice used the
Cyprus crisis to publicly campaign for his stern approach for
the entire euro area, at a time when EU officials were trying to
convince investors that Cyprus was a special case, precisely so
that they wouldn’t take flight. This rookie needs be taken out
to the woodshed.  Perceptions Matter  Damage control is under way, starting with Dijsselbloem’s
rapidly recanting his template comments. Yet the cat is out of
the bag -- large depositors in euro-area banks will adjust to
what they now see as the coming policy in Europe. In cases like
this, perceptions matter.  Dijsselbloem’s message -- that investors must pay more and
taxpayers less in bailing out distressed banks -- plays well in
Calvinist Holland. But he was appointed the leader of the group
of euro-area finance ministers to represent the collective views
of the 17 member countries, not to be an avatar of Dutch moral
principles.  Dijsselbloem’s template surprise was his second major
blunder during the Cyprus bailout negotiations. The first was
his willingness to sign off on Cyprus President Nicos Anastasiades’s proposal to impose a deposit tax on government
insured deposits of less than 100,000 euros ($129,000).  Faced with the need to raise almost 6 billion euros to get
10 billion euros of help for bailing out the nation’s two
biggest banks, the president of Cyprus insisted that government-
insured small depositors should be taxed, so as to reduce the
burden on the uninsured big depositors, most of them Russians.
Not for nothing are the Germans calling Cyprus a “gangster
economy.” French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  called it a
“casino economy.”  Anastasiades claimed the Cypriot parliament would rubber-
stamp the agreement, and Dijsselbloem signed off on it, together
with representatives from the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund , who must also shoulder part of the
blame.  What a blunder. By signing off on a deal that would enable
Anastasiades to keep doing business with Russian depositors,
Dijsselbloem and his counterpart in the ECB risked serious bank
runs throughout the euro area. These are the kinds of
unpardonable mistakes that raise questions about whether the
European leadership knows what it is doing.  The euro has its faults, it is true, but they are solvable.
What makes exiting the crisis so difficult for Europe is the
poor quality of its political leadership. Europe was asking for
trouble when it put a newcomer like Dijsselbloem into such a
senior and sensitive financial job without giving it a second
thought -- and it got that trouble in spades with Cyprus.  The final agreement reached with the Cypriot government
turned out to be constructive, but the route there was made
unnecessarily circuitous and expensive by officials who don’t
understand how markets operate.  (Melvyn Krauss is an emeritus economics professor at  New
York  University and a senior fellow at the  Hoover Institution  at
 Stanford University . He writes regularly for several European
newspapers, including Handelsblatt in Germany and NRC
Handelsblad in the Netherlands. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Melyvn Krauss at  melvynbkrauss@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 