-- The NRA Opposes Common-Sense Hunting, Too
-- B y   W a y n e   P a c e l l e
-- 2013-04-01T22:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/the-nra-opposes-common-sense-hunting-too.html
The  National Rifle Association ’s
resistance to almost any limits on guns or gun purchases is
well-established.  Less frequently discussed is the group’s unyielding defense
of unsporting and destructive hunting pursuits, including the
use of highly toxic lead ammunition, the trophy killing of rare
and threatened species, the opening of national parks to sport
hunting, and cruel practices such as bear baiting and captive or
“canned” hunts.  The  Humane Society of the U.S . has tangled with the NRA on
ballot initiatives in about 15 states, and has consistently come
out ahead with voters when it came to banning captive hunts
( Montana ), stopping bear baiting and hound hunting of bears and
other predators (California,  Colorado ,  Massachusetts ,  Oregon  and
 Washington ), and eliminating the use of steel-jawed leghold
traps and other body-gripping devices ( Arizona ,  California ,
Colorado, Massachusetts and Washington).  Last week, in  Michigan , our organization turned in 253,000
 signatures  in support of a referendum to block trophy hunting
and commercial trapping of wolves, which until last year were
listed under federal law as threatened with extinction.  Sensible Limits  Our surveys and ballot initiative campaigns show that
Americans generally favor hunting but want sensible limits. They
expect hunters to observe some sense of sportsmanship -- and
shooting an animal in a fenced enclosure or with its head buried
in a pile of bait doesn’t meet the definition. They want the
hunters to eat the meat of the animals and not to shoot them
just for trophies. They don’t want to cause the animals
inordinate stress or suffering or to put entire species at risk.
They feel more comfortable if the hunting is done for population
control or a well-justified “management” purpose.  For the most part, the current debate is simply a matter of
asking hunters to adhere to these enduring, and often self-
styled, standards. Yet the NRA defends the worst practices, and
too many lawmakers exhibit an embarrassing fealty that is out of
sync with the NRA’s political power.  Before the tragedy in Newtown,  Connecticut , leaders of the
 U.S. Senate  seemed intent on passing a bill that was a grab bag
for the NRA. Among other things, the measure introduced by
Montana Democrat Jon Tester would have allowed imports of heads
and hides of polar bears killed in  Canada .  The International Union for Conservation of Nature listed
the polar bear as vulnerable, based on a projected population
reduction of more than 30 percent within three generations (45
years) because of a decrease in distribution and habitat
quality; in 2008, the George W. Bush administration listed the
species as threatened with extinction. The last thing these
bears need are Americans tromping up to northern Canada to kill
them, and then pleading with members of Congress for a trophy
import allowance.  Earlier in the 112th Congress,  House Republicans  approved
this reckless trophy-import provision, and supported provisions
to open areas of the National Park Service to sport hunting and
to prevent the Environmental Protection Agency from restricting
the use of lead shot. The votes took place days after the NRA’s
annual convention in April, and were widely recognized as a
political sop to the gun lobby.  The radical positioning of the NRA doesn’t stop there. Lead
poisoning has become a leading cause of death for the highly
endangered California condor -- the result of these scavengers
eating gut piles containing lead or carcasses of animals wounded
by hunters. The state legislature and the California Fish and
Game Commission banned the use of lead ammunition in condor
country starting in 2008. Yet it’s still used in condor habitat
in Arizona and across the U.S. on public and private lands.  Lead Poisoning  The NRA continues to oppose efforts to stop the poisoning
of other species. Preferring a rigid orthodoxy to science, the
gun lobby’s leaders defend some imaginary right of hunters to
scatter a known poison across our remaining wildlands, even when
nontoxic ammunition (such as copper or bismuth) is readily
available at a reasonable price.  The U.S. government cites more than 500 scientific studies,
some more than a century old, to conclude that lead ammunition
leaves fragments in animal tissue and poses a threat to 134
species, including eagles, hawks and grizzly bears. One other
species may be harmed, too: Tests of packaged game meat have
shown microscopic traces of lead that could put humans at risk.  The NRA has also bullied lawmakers into opposing efforts to
ban bear baiting on federal lands. Even though the  U.S. Forest
Service  and other federal land managers tell visitors to “never
feed wildlife,” bear hunters dump mounds of jelly doughnuts, old
pizza and rotting meat to lure their prey. Of the 4,000 or so
black bears shot each fall in  Maine , 80 percent are killed over
bait piles.  Although about two dozen states ban captive hunts, there
are still thousands of private hunting preserves elsewhere --
Texas is the industry hub -- where trophy hunters shoot animals
in captive settings. Typically, these operations are “no kill,
no pay” and the hunting is guaranteed by the operators.  The NRA’s invoking of the noble principles of freedom and
constitutional rights to defend hunting, as with its inflexible
stance on  gun control , is only a smoke screen for extremism.  As Americans press politicians to come to the vital center
on guns, they should do the same on wildlife issues and hunting.
Some forms of hunting produce unacceptable cruelty, and are at
odds with the creed of the responsible practitioner. Limits must
be placed on the havoc that a segment of the hunting community
wreaks upon animals.  ( Wayne Pacelle  is president and chief executive officer of
the  Humane Society  of the U.S. and author of “The Bond: Our
Kinship With Animals, Our Call to Defend Them.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Wayne Pacelle at  wpacelle@humanesociety.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 