-- The Supreme Court: No Friend of Freedom
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-04-01T22:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/the-supreme-court-no-friend-of-freedom.html
There’s a story Americans have
learned about the Supreme Court, a story that affects the way we
view high-profile cases like the ones about same-sex marriage
that it heard last week.  In this story, the Supreme Court has played a crucial,
maybe the crucial, role in our country’s progress toward ever
greater freedom and justice.  Brown v. Board of Education  -- the
1954 decision that outlawed separate-but-equal public schools --
is central to that story, the shining example of how the court
has broadened our constitutional guarantees.  For many people, a decision in which the court finds a
constitutional right to same-sex marriage would be the next
great chapter in that book. The story is, however, false. In our
actual history, the court has often been a bystander as freedom
and equality have grown -- and has frequently been a villain.  The heroic conception of the court is a thoroughly modern
one. During the first decades of our history under the
Constitution, the Supreme Court was, by current standards, a
remarkably passive institution. In its first 70 years, the court
overturned  only two federal laws . On the first occasion, the
court said Congress was giving the federal judiciary more power
than the Constitution allowed. (I’ll get to the second in a
minute.) In that same span of time, the court struck down only
34 state laws and one city ordinance, often on the ground that
they conflicted with federal law.  Awful Record  Since then, Americans have gotten freer and more equal in
many respects, and the Supreme Court has grown more assertive.
Yet those two trends were often unrelated.  The Brown decision aside, the court’s record on race has
been fairly awful. The second time it struck down a federal law,
the court protected slavery. That was in the infamous 1857 case
of  Dred Scott v. Sandford . The court also upheld the internment
of Japanese-Americans during World War II.  There is an academic debate about how much Brown really
accomplished, with skeptics pointing out that actual
desegregation occurred only when Congress passed the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, a decade after the court acted. What often
goes unnoticed, though, is that the decision in Brown might not
have been necessary if the court hadn’t blocked earlier attempts
to bring justice to blacks.  The  Fourteenth Amendment  required states to extend the
equal protection of the law to all people and gave Congress the
power to enforce the guarantee. So Congress voted to make all
“inns, public conveyances on land or water, theaters, and other
places of public amusement” open to all people regardless of
race, color or previous enslavement. But the Supreme Court, in
1883, protected segregation by striking down the law.  We don’t have the court to thank for free political speech,
either. Everyone agrees that is the core purpose of the First
Amendment’s free-speech guarantee, even as scholars disagree
about whether it is also meant to protect pornography,
commercial advertisements or campaign contributions.  Open political debate has come under attack from government
several times in American history, starting with the passage of
the Alien and Sedition Acts of 1798. But as Robert F. Nagel
points out in “ Judicial Power and American Character ,” the
courts played no role in ending any of these episodes. They
ended for other reasons (like the election of Thomas Jefferson
in 1800).  The court has expanded freedom of expression in ways that
range from arguable to dubious, protecting campaign ads by
corporations, flag burning and virtual child pornography.
Whatever the wisdom of these decisions, it seems clear that we
were a free country before them, and the freedoms gained aren’t
the kind that soldiers die for.  Distorted History  Roe v. Wade certainly made a difference in American
abortion law. Without it, late-term abortions, in particular,
would probably not be as free from prosecution as  they now are .
Whether that counts as an advance for freedom and justice, or as
a terrible retreat, is obviously a matter of continuing dispute.
It is, at the very least, not one of those improvements in
American life -- like the fact that you no longer have to be a
white male property owner to vote -- that almost everyone
celebrates.  The mythology of a heroic court distorts our understanding
of U.S. history, making us forget that for the most part we
secured our status as a free people outside the courts. It makes
us more averse to proposals to reduce judicial power than we
otherwise would be. And it cultivates the romance of the
landmark case -- the dramatic legal breakthrough for the
oppressed, like Brown. The appeal of that romance diverts our
attention from its consequences: a political culture in which
courts are free to exercise vast power as a matter of routine,
to the detriment of self-government.  Getting the history right won’t help resolve particular
cases, such as the ones about same-sex marriage. The justices
might be more likely to stick with a modest conception of their
role, however, if they remember that the court has much to be
modest about.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and a senior editor
at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 