-- Lear Reaches Accord With Dissident Shareholders
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-04-01T20:28:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/lear-reaches-accord-with-dissident-shareholders.html
Lear Corp. (LEA) , the auto-parts maker,
reached an agreement with dissident shareholders Marcato Capital
Management LLC and Oskie Capital Management LLC that includes
expanding a stock buyback.  Under the agreement, Marcato and Oskie have withdrawn their
slate of nominees for election to Lear’s board at the 2013
annual meeting next month and to vote their shares in support of
the company’s nominees. Lear will expand the board to nine “as
soon as practicable” after the meeting and add a director
chosen by the company and the two shareholders.  Lear also agreed to accelerate and expand its plans to buy
back shares. The Southfield, Michigan-based company said in a
statement it repurchased $200 million of its shares in the first
quarter and will buy back $800 million under an existing $1
billion plan within 12 months. The directors also authorized the
repurchase of $750 million in shares after the $1 billion plan
is completed.  “This is a pretty reasonable outcome,” Matthew Stover, an
auto analyst with Guggenheim Securities in  Boston , said in a
telephone interview. “It puts the company in a more natural
position of leverage long term without compromising its
financial flexibility.”  Marcato and Oskie in February said they met with Lear
management about ways to boost shareholder value, including
repurchases. Lear on Feb. 7 said the board authorized management
to increase pace of the $1 billion repurchase plan to be $600
million during 2013. Lear also increased its quarterly cash
dividend 21 percent to 17 cents a share.  Lear gained 1 percent to $55.40 at the close in New York.
The shares have increased 18 percent this year, more than the
9.5 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Koenig at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net  