-- Egyptian Satirist Arrest a Free-Speech Concern, U.S. Says
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-04-01T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/egyptian-satirist-arrest-a-free-speech-concern-u-s-says.html
The arrest of a satirist who’s been
called “ Egypt ’s Jon Stewart” on charges of insulting Islam and
the country’s president raises concern that Egypt’s government
is restricting basic liberties, the U.S. State Department said.  “There does not seem to be an evenhanded application of
justice here,” spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said yesterday at
the department’s daily briefing in  Washington . She said the
government seems to be pursuing such cases “while it has been
slow or inadequate in investigating attacks” on demonstrators
and journalists.  Bassem Youssef turned himself in March 30 after prosecutors
issued an arrest warrant over comments the comedian made in his
“ Al Bernameg ” television program in February. He was released
on 15,000 Egyptian pounds ($2,200) bail hours later.  Youssef’s arrest is “evidence of a disturbing trend of
growing restrictions on freedom of expression” in Egypt, Nuland
said.  The case has magnified accusations by critics of Islamist-
backed President Mohamed Mursi that his regime seeks to limit
rights, including of freedom of expression, and crack down on
detractors. It will also provide ammunition for activists who
accuse the prosecutor, appointed by Mursi, of a double standard
in dealing with complaints about the president’s opponents
compared with those against his supporters.  “We are not the ones who insult religion,” Youssef said
in a phone interview on CBC television. “If there is anyone who
has insulted religion, it is those who use Islam as a weapon for
political reasons.”  ‘Daily Show’  A medical doctor, Youssef shot to fame after the 2011
uprising that pushed  Hosni Mubarak  from power. Youssef’s program
is similar in style to U.S. comedian Stewart’s “the  Daily
Show ,” on which he has appeared.  The format of “Al Bernameg,” meaning “the Program,”
combines political commentary and spoof interviews. It includes
digs at Egypt’s politicians, members of the media and other
public personalities, at times juxtaposing their current
positions with contradictory statements they have made in the
past. Videos of Mursi and other Islamists have been featured
prominently on Youssef’s show.  “The lack of independence of the Egyptian judiciary, as is
generally the case elsewhere in the Arab world, makes it a tool
in the hands of those in power to pursue and punish their
opponents,” Cairo-based human-rights lawyer Gamal Eid said in
an interview.  “Bassem’s case is in big part a trial balloon,” Eid said.
“If it goes through without a popular backlash despite his wide
popularity, it will be easy to go after a long list of
opponents.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  