-- Ellington Joins Race to Buy Rentals as Housing Rebounds
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d   a n d   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2013-04-01T19:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/ellington-joins-race-to-buy-rentals-as-housing-rebounds.html
Ellington Management Group LLC, the
$5.3 billion investment firm founded by Michael Vranos that
specializes in mortgage-backed bonds, is moving into the rental-
home business.  Ellington has raised $140 million to buy properties through
a private real estate investment trust, according to an e-mailed
statement from the Old Greenwich, Connecticut-based firm. The
company will buy and renovate single-family homes as well as
acquire and resolve soured multifamily mortgages. It’s already
bought or is in contract to purchase 550 houses.  Ellington joins private-equity firms led by  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  and Colony Capital LLC that are buying  foreclosed  homes
to rent in the regions hardest hit by the  U.S. housing crash .
Investors are seeking to profit from low prices on distressed
properties and rising demand for rentals from people who have
lost houses to foreclosure, can’t qualify for a mortgage or
don’t want to own.  “We are excited about the housing recovery investment
opportunity,” Leo Huang, chief executive officer of Ellington
Housing, said in the statement today. The firm’s “mortgage
expertise will help us to target and time markets,” according
to Huang, who joined Ellington from Starwood Property Trust in
January 2011. He was previously co-head of commercial real
estate lending at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. from 2004 to 2008.  Homeownership Rate  The U.S.  homeownership rate  fell to 65.4 percent at the end
of 2012, matching the level last seen in 1997 and down from a
peak of 69.2 percent in June 2004, the Commerce Department
reported. New York-based Blackstone, the world’s largest private
equity firm, has spent more than $3.5 billion to purchase 20,000
single-family rentals. Tom Barrack’s Santa Monica, California-
based Colony Capital has raised $2.2 billion.  Institutional investors buying real estate have helped push
up prices, with the S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in
20 cities climbing 8.1 percent in the 12 months through January.
It was the biggest year-over-year advance since June 2006. In
Phoenix, prices rose 23 percent from the year-earlier period.
The 20-city measure is still 29 percent below its 2006 peak.  Firms that own single-family rentals are raising additional
funds through initial public offerings and increased borrowing
from banks. American Residential Properties Inc., a Scottsdale,
Arizona-based single-family rental company, said last month it
is seeking to raise $300 million through an IPO.  Silver Bay
Realty Trust Corp. (SBY) , a Minnetonka, Minnesota-based REIT, raised
$245 million in an IPO in December, and American Homes 4 Rent,
the housing landlord headed by Public Storage founder B. Wayne Hughes, said in February it planned to sell shares to the public
for the first time.  Blackstone Loan  In March, Blackstone expanded a credit line to $2.1 billion
from $600 million to buy rental homes.  “Prices have increased off a very low base, and it’s
growing increasingly competitive, but we are still finding
opportunities to buy,” Devin Peterson, a Blackstone real estate
associate overseeing the company’s housing initiative, said last
month in an interview. “We recognized that prices were moving
faster than people expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net 
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net 
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  