-- Nasdaq to Buy ESpeed Platform From BGC for $750 Million
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-04-01T22:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/embargo-till-4pm-us-est.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  will buy
eSpeed, the electronic trading system for U.S. Treasuries, from
 BGC Partners Inc. (BGCP)  for about $750 million in cash, giving the
second-largest U.S. stock market a foothold in fixed income.  BGC shares rose 37 percent in trading after the market
closed. Nasdaq will also issue about 15 million common shares
over 15 years as part of the acquisition, pushing the potential
value of the transaction to $1.23 billion, according to e-mailed
statements by the two companies. ESpeed, founded by Cantor
Fitzgerald LP in 1996, is used by banks worldwide to trade bonds
and currencies.  Robert Greifeld , Nasdaq’s chief executive officer, is
joining other exchange executives using takeovers to boost
profit amid declines in  stock trading . The operator of the
biggest American stock trading venue,  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , agreed in
December to be acquired by commodity exchange InterContinental
Exchange Inc. for about $8 billion.  “The U.S. Treasury market is the most electronic of the
fixed-income markets,” Greifeld said in an interview today. The
market “functions in many ways, shape and form like an
exchange,” he said. “As customers make their decisions, we’ll
be in a strong position to fulfill their needs. We are
diversifying in a measured way.”  BGC Shares  BGC’s stock dropped 59 percent over the last two years to
$3.85 at the close of trading today, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The shares jumped as high as $7.57 after exchanges
closed and was trading at $5.26 as of 6:03 p.m. in  New York .  The electronic trading platform for on-the-run U.S.
Treasuries, including related market data and co-location
businesses that Nasdaq is buying, generated about $100 million
of revenue last year, less than 6 percent of BGC’s total,  Howard Lutnick , its chief executive officer, said in the statement. The
total sale may be about as large as BGC’s fully-diluted market
value, he said.  “We think that the market was clearly under-valuing the
assets of the company,” Lutnick said. “This transaction should
better enable investors and analysts to place an accurate
valuation on BGC’s assets post-closing.”  BGC, part-owned by Cantor Fitzgerald, has been diversifying
into commercial real-estate by buying a series of brokerages as
bond trading slows. It will keep its voice and hybrid brokerage
and electronic business for off-the-run Treasuries and other
fixed-income products, the company said.  ‘Huge Deal’  “For BGC, this is a huge deal because their all-in price
was higher than the market capitalization was,” said Jillian Miller, an Atlanta-based exchange analyst at BMO Capital
Markets, said in a telephone interview. “BGC saw this
as an opportunity to sell off this piece that isn’t affected by
the regulatory environment and realize some value for it.”  Moody’s Investors Service said Nasdaq’s Baa3 senior rating
may be cut following the eSpeed deal. The transaction will
increase the exchange’s debt by $1 billion and cause a
“deterioration in its financial profile,” according a
statement from the ratings company. The purchase will be funded
with cash and debt, Nasdaq said.  Fully electronic volume in the rates market, which includes
Treasuries and European and Canadian sovereign debt as well as
overnight  repurchase agreements ,  interest-rate swaps  and futures
on eSpeed, declined 19.8 percent for the last three months of
2012 from the same period the year before to $9.7 trillion,
according to BGC’s 10-K report filed March 12.  Total volume, including electronic and so-called hybrid
volume conducted by BGC brokers, rose 15.6 percent to $44.4
trillion during the same period, the report said.  Nasdaq Trading  Nasdaq OMX’s share of trading in equities has fallen since
2007, when 46.1 percent of volume in Nasdaq-listed companies
occurred on its main market. About 23.3 percent was done on its
main market in the last quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Altogether, Nasdaq OMX has had 18.4 percent of all
equities trading across its three exchanges in the first three
months of this year.  While shares of Nasdaq have climbed 61 percent since the
end of 2009, they remain down 36 percent from their 2007 high of
$50 on Dec. 26, 2007.  New York-based Nasdaq plans to add products to the eSpeed
platform as markets evolve, Greifeld said in a telephone
interview today. The deal will add to earnings in the first 12
months after it is completed in the middle of the year.  BGC Partners was created in April 2008 when  Cantor
Fitzgerald  LP combined eSpeed with its London-based broker-
assisted bond trading unit. Cantor founded eSpeed during the
dot-com rally of the late 1990s and took it public in 1999.  Fixed Income  “We are establishing our foothold in the fixed-income
market as it grows,”  Eric Noll , Nasdaq’s Executive Vice
President, Transaction Services U.S. and U.K., said in an
interview. “This is an obvious launching pad. And while
initially we are very focused on the U.S. Treasury market, we’re
always going to be looking at what’s next.”  Swings in  government bonds  have been “artificially
depressed” by Federal Reserve asset purchases, Nasdaq said in
the release. Volatility in Treasuries as measured by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch MOVE index has averaged 58.74 this year,
down from 79.42 in the first three months of 2012.  Fully electronic volume on the eSpeed and BGC Trader
system, including new products, was $48.2 trillion for the year
ended December 31, 2012, down 15.7 percent from $57.2 trillion
for 2011, BGC said in the 10-K. Combined voice-assisted and
screen-assisted volume for the year for 2012 was $190.7
trillion, down 1.8 percent from 2011.  Electronic Transactions  The number of fully electronic transactions in Treasuries
declined 35 percent to 3.2 million in the last three months of
2012 from the same period the year before, while hybrid
transactions grew 15.5 percent to 619,000 during the period.  The purchase comes as Greifeld seeks to push into European
derivatives, dominated by Deutsche Boerse AG and NYSE’s Liffe
exchanges. The company is setting up a London market called NLX,
buying a 25 percent stake in  The Order Machine , a Dutch
alternative securities-trading system focused on stocks and
equity derivatives, and seeking a greater share of energy
products in  Germany .  Nasdaq  also raised its stake in LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.,
the world’s largest interest rate-swap clearinghouse, expands in
the region and diversifies its business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  