-- Emerging Stocks Decline as U.S. to China Data Disappoint
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-04-01T21:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/emerging-stocks-snap-five-day-gain-after-south-korea-china-data.html
Emerging stocks fell for the first
time in six days, led by commodity producers, as data from the
U.S. to  China  and Japan came in below economists’ estimates.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  South Korea ’s biggest automaker,
retreated the most in more than a week in  Seoul , while the won
slid versus the dollar as worsening relations with North Korea
heightened the risk of conflict. Sterlite Industries ( India )
Ltd., the nation’s biggest copper producer, tumbled 4.5 percent
after it was ordered to close a smelter.  Brazil ’s Bovespa index
fell as PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes slumped.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slid 0.4 percent to
1,031.15, after rallying 1.9 percent last week. Stocks fell as
data showed manufacturing in the U.S. expanded less than
forecast in March, while the Bank of  Japan ’s Tankan index of
confidence among large manufacturers improved less than
estimated. South Korean exports grew less than economists
anticipated and a pickup in China’s output trailed projections.  “Global economic reports are reflecting the fact that the
glass is not half empty, not half full,” Bruce McCain, who
helps oversee more than $20 billion as chief investment
strategist at the private-banking unit of KeyCorp in  Cleveland ,
said in a phone interview. “There’s no area in the world that
is able to achieve the breakout that could drive enthusiasm in
the market right now.”  Eight out of  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
retreated today. The broader gauge has slipped 2.3 percent this
year, trailing a 6.7 percent gain in the MSCI World Index of
developed-country stocks. The  emerging-markets  measure trades at
10.8 times 12-month  projected  profit, compared with the MSCI
World’s 14.2 valuation, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets exchange-traded fund, the
ETF tracking developing-nation shares, fell 1.1 percent to
$42.31, after rallying 1.9 percent last week. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, advanced 8.7 percent to 18.18.  The Bovespa fell for the first time in four trading days as
economists covering Brazil raised their 2014 inflation
forecasts. Homebuilder PDG Realty, dropped 1.9 percent, leading
consumer stocks lower.  Brazilian equities are handing investors the worst returns
in  Latin America  as companies post the longest streak of
earnings misses in six years.  Forty-two (IBOV)  of the Bovespa index’s
64 members trailed analysts’ earnings estimates in the fourth
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was the
fifth straight period that more than 50 percent the companies
included in the benchmark fell short of projections, the longest
string of disappointments since 2007.  Russian Shares  Russian shares fell for the first time in four days as
crude sank, dulling the appeal of equities in the world’s
largest energy exporter. OAO Rosneft and OAO Lukoil,  Russia ’s
largest oil producers with a combined 20 percent weighting in
the Micex, fell 0.9 percent and 1.3 percent, respectively.  Hong Kong ,  Australia ,  New Zealand  and most markets in
 Europe  are closed for public holidays today.  South Korea’s Kospi Index dropped 0.4 percent, the first
decline in the measure in six days. Hyundai Motor lost 0.9
percent, the most since March 21, while Samsung Electronics Co.,
the biggest stock on the  MSCI emerging-markets index (MXEF) , dropped 1
percent. The won weakened 0.3 percent to a one-week low.  North Korean leader Kim Jong Un called nuclear weapons
development one of the nation’s top priorities yesterday,
escalating tensions with the South that were reignited after
North Korea detonated a nuclear device in February.  Indian equities climbed, rebounding from the first
 quarterly drop  since 2011. Industrial stocks led the gain.
Sterlite Industries tumbled to its lowest close since June 4.  Most Chinese stocks rose as gains by property developers
and health-care companies offset economic data that missed
estimates. The Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.1 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own developing-nation
dollar debt over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 308 basis
points, according to the JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  