-- Tesla Forecasts First Quarterly Profit on Model S Sales
-- B y   R o s e   K i m   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-04-01T13:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/tesla-forecasts-first-quarterly-profit-on-model-s-sales.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the electric-car
maker headed by billionaire Elon Musk, climbed to a record after
saying it turned its first quarterly profit on higher-than-
forecasted sales of its Model S sedan, overcoming a controversy
about the car’s performance.  Tesla rose 13 percent to $42.94 at 9:42 a.m. New York time
after surging as much as 14 percent to $43.33. The stock gained
12 percent this year through March 28, topping the 10 percent
rise in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Tesla’s best closing
price was $39.48 on Feb. 7.  Tesla reached “full profitability” as Model S sales were
more than 250 units higher than the 4,500 that the electric-car
maker projected in mid-February, according to a company
statement yesterday that didn’t specify the profit figure. The
average analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg calls for a loss
of 11 cents a share, excluding some items.  Tesla reached a profitability goal set by Musk, 41, as the
 Palo Alto , California-based company disputed a story about its
Model S sedan by the New York Times that questioned the car’s
driving range. Musk called the report “fake” and told
Bloomberg Television it trimmed Tesla’s stock-market value by as
much as $100 million. The public editor for the newspaper said
its reporter didn’t use good judgment and “left himself open to
valid criticism.”  “It’s an important milestone that everyone has been
waiting for, but it’s certainly not time to break out the
champagne,” Michelle Krebs, an analyst for  Santa Monica ,
California-based auto researcher Edmunds.com, said by telephone.
“They’ve got to sustain sales and profits every quarter. This
is just a step along a path that’s going to be bumpy.”  ‘Exciting’ News  Tesla said that its revised estimates are separate from the
“really exciting” announcement that Musk alluded to in a
Twitter post last week. That disclosure will be made tomorrow
and is “arguably more important,” Musk said in a separate
 message  on Twitter.  Tesla said last month that it will repay by December 2017
the $465 million in U.S. Energy Department loans that it
received to develop and build electric cars. The company’s
fortunes are diverging from fellow loan recipient and electric-
car maker Fisker Automotive Inc., which last week lost a
potential automotive partner in  China ’s Dongfeng Motor Group Co.
and furloughed employees.  Fisker also hired restructuring lawyers from Kirkland &
Ellis LLP, a person familiar with the matter said last week.  Tesla has forecast that deliveries of the battery-powered
Model S will rise to a record 20,000 in 2013. The car starts at
$59,900 and has a range of as far as 300 miles (483 kilometers)
in ideal conditions when its 85-kilowatt-hour battery pack is
fully charged. The original  New York  Times article detailed a
test drive made in cold weather.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  