-- Ethanol Has Its Place, but Not in Gasoline
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-01T22:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/etahnol-has-its-place-but-not-in-gasoline.html
U.S. oil production has reached a
20-year high and, since March 2012, demand for gasoline has
fallen almost 5 percent. So why have prices at the pump jumped?
From mid-December through the end of February they rose almost
20 percent, though they have declined a bit in recent weeks.
Some of the blame for the increase goes to the federal mandate
on ethanol use in the U.S. fuel supply.  Fuel blenders are required to mix 13.8 billion gallons of
ethanol with gasoline this year, under an energy bill passed in
2005 and revised two years later -- at a time before domestic
energy production surged and motorists began using less
gasoline.  Now, the fixed ethanol mandate could force blenders to make
gasoline that’s more than 10 percent ethanol -- more than some
cars are equipped to burn. Some automakers have said that using
a mix of  15 percent ethanol , which the Environmental Protection
Agency plans to order blenders to produce, might void engine
warranties.  The solution for blenders is to buy credits, which give
them a break on how much ethanol they must mix into the gasoline
they sell. The  price of credits  has soared, however, reaching
more than $1 a gallon in early March, after trading at just 7
cents in January.  Court Ruling  The same law, the Energy Independence and Security Act,
requires refiners and blenders to use ethanol derived from
cellulosic fiber, such as grass, wood and agricultural waste.
The trouble is, there’s not enough ethanol from these materials
to meet EPA targets. A federal appeals court in January had the
good sense to reject that mandate, though it seems as if the EPA
didn’t get the message: The agency increased the amount of
cellulosic ethanol that blenders are supposed to use next year.  Some members of Congress asked the EPA to suspend the
ethanol mandate amid last summer’s  drought , the worst in more
than 50 years. Most U.S. ethanol is produced from corn; about 40
percent of the nation’s harvest, the world’s largest, goes to
fuel production. Although corn prices have dropped from the
highs of last year, they are still about a fourth higher than
they were in June.  The ethanol mandate has been blamed for an array of market
distortions, including soaring farmland prices, environmental
degradation (as marginal soils and wetlands are cultivated) and
higher global food costs. Ethanol from corn may not even be a
net positive in terms of energy output -- some scientists say
the amount of  energy used  to produce ethanol from corn is larger
than the amount it yields. That undermines claims that ethanol
use reduces greenhouse-gas emissions.  Rather than require blenders to mix a fixed quantity of
ethanol into gasoline, the EPA should let them use the amount
needed to maintain a 10 percent mix and abandon plans to require
a 15 percent blend. If gasoline consumption keeps falling,
consumers should be able to benefit from lower prices.  Better yet, Congress should end the outdated mandate
altogether.  Ethanol may have its place. It can help gasoline burn more
efficiently in  older car engines , and is less toxic than the
alternatives used to boost fuel octane ratings. Those advantages
shouldn’t be compromised by a rigid rule that contributes to
higher gasoline prices.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 