-- Exedy Expects Sales Rise to Exceed Analyst Estimates on Yen
-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e   a n d   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2013-04-02T06:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/exedy-forecasts-sales-growth-to-exceed-analyst-estimates-on-yen.html
Exedy Corp. (7278) , a  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
supplier, forecast sales will expand at almost twice the pace
analysts expect as it benefits from a weaker yen and orders from
carmakers including  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   Revenue will rise 10 percent to about 220 billion yen ($2.4
billion) in the fiscal year started April 1, compared with the
200 billion yen projected in the year just ended, President
Haruo Shimizu said in an interview. The company received an
order from Volkswagen worth several billion yen last year for
transmissions to be used in China, he said, without specifying
details.  Exedy is also supplying non-Japanese carmakers including
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  as the Toyota affiliate broadens
its customer base in fast-growing car markets including China,
India and Mexico to make up for sluggish demand in Japan,
according to Shimizu. The yen’s 16 percent decline in the past
six months is helping the parts maker compete globally by
boosting the value of overseas sales, he said.  “Hitting our sales target really depends on getting new
customers in  emerging markets ,” Shimizu said March 28 in  Osaka .  Exedy fell 4.6 percent to close at 1,999 yen in Tokyo, its
biggest decline since Sept. 26. The benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average slid 1.1 percent.  Sales are expected to jump about 5 percent to 211 billion
yen in the year ending March 2014, according to the average of
six  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Acquisition Talks  “In expanding sales in overseas markets, Exedy has its
brand value as the supplier to major carmakers like Toyota to
its advantage,” Masahiro Akita, a Tokyo-based auto analyst at
Credit Suisse AG, said by phone today. “Sales of replacement
parts are more profitable than simply supplying to carmakers,
and demand for that can lead to growth, too.”  The auto components maker is also in acquisition talks with
several manual transmission wholesalers and retailers outside
 Japan  to help boost sales of replacement parts, Shimizu said,
without naming any targets. Manual transmissions account for
about 30 percent of Exedy’s revenue, and the company expects to
double sales of spare parts to 46 billion yen in five years, he
said.  The companies Shimizu is considering buying are valued at
“between 500 million yen and several billion yen each,” he
said.  -- Editors: Aaron Clark, Subramaniam Sharma  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net 
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  