-- Exelon Falls From Green Favor as Chief Fights Wind Aid
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-04-01T14:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/exelon-falls-from-green-favor-as-chief-fights-wind-aid.html
Exelon Corp. (EXC)  left the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce in 2009 over the group’s opposition to a climate-
change bill, declaring the “carbon-based free lunch” was over.  The company had a change of heart and rejoined the nation’s
largest business lobby a few months ago.  It’s just one of the ways Exelon’s political and
environmental allegiances have shifted under Chief Executive
Officer Christopher Crane as he confronts cheap natural gas and
government-subsidized wind power. Both are eroding profit at the
Chicago-based utility, the nation’s biggest operator of nuclear
reactors.  Since Crane took over 13 months ago, the company --
considered an ally by some environmentalists -- has dropped its
support for a clean-coal project in  Illinois  and shifted its
political donations. Last year, for the first time in six years,
it gave more money to Republicans than Democrats running for
federal office. It has also come out against a tax credit for
 wind-energy  production, resulting in its expulsion from the
board of the  American Wind Energy Association .  “I think of them as an admirably self-interested
company,” said Richard Caperton, an energy analyst at the
Center for American Progress who has battled Exelon over its
opposition to the wind tax credit. “I want to believe they
wanted to do the right thing on  climate change , but their
nuclear fleet would have benefited hugely by putting a price on
carbon.”  Corporate Support  Support from a corporation such as Exelon can bring money,
organization and credibility to a cause. The company’s advocacy
for measures to combat climate change and in support of tougher
clean-air rules has helped advance those issues, Rebecca
Stanfield, a Chicago-based senior energy advocate for the
 Natural Resources Defense Council , said in an e-mail.  “When some companies are trying to convince policy makers
that a proposed regulation is going to close down the power
sector, it’s very helpful to have other industry leaders counter
that the regulations are needed to protect public health,
achievable and cost-effective,” Stanfield said.  Conversely, Exelon’s opposition to wind energy is making
clean-energy development more difficult in the Midwest, she
said.  Exelon was among the most vocal corporate supporters of a
sweeping cap-and-trade bill designed to reduce the risks of
climate change by pricing  carbon emissions . The measure passed
the Democratic led U.S. House of Representatives in 2009 before
dying in the Senate.  “Inaction on climate is not an option,” then-CEO  John Rowe  said in a speech announcing his company’s exit from the
Chamber, which said the legislation threatened the economy.  Corporate Merger  Rowe, 67, who has a law degree from the  University of
Wisconsin  at Madison and has funded professorships of Byzantine
and Greek history at the school, had built Exelon by merging
Unicom Corp. with PECO Energy Co. in 2000.  The combined operation became the largest owner of nuclear
plants, with stakes in 21 reactors. The company refashioned
itself into a green, low-emissions energy provider after selling
most of its coal plants and spending $893 million to buy wind
farms in eight states.  Rowe “was kind of an iconoclast in the industry,” said
Martin Cohen, regulatory policy consultant and former executive
director of the Citizens Utility Board, a Chicago-based consumer
watchdog group. “He favored carbon taxes, for example. That did
well with the nuclear strategy, but I think it also reflected
his view on climate change.”  Daunting Economics  Driving Exelon’s new advocacy efforts are daunting
economics in wholesale electricity markets, and a new chief
executive who hasn’t hesitated to publicly challenge
adversaries.  Wind’s rapid growth has wreaked havoc with power prices in
Illinois, where Exelon operates 11 nuclear reactors with a
combined 11,526 megawatts of capacity, enough to light 9.2
million homes.  Spot prices fall below zero on gusty days when demand is
light as wind operators chasing the tax credits continue to send
their surplus to the grid. Coal and nuclear plants must continue
running even as this “negative pricing” forces them to pay
grid operators to take the power they produce.  The average price for off-peak power in Illinois fell to
minus $41.083 a megawatt-hour on Oct. 11, 2012, the lowest level
since 2005. The on-peak average fell to minus $7.85 a megawatt-
hour on Feb. 19, the least since Dec. 24, 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Style Difference  The company cut its quarterly dividend for the first time
in its history after its fourth-quarter profit declined 38
percent to $378 million on lower electricity prices and higher
nuclear fuel costs. The second-quarter dividend will be 31 cents
a share, down 41 percent from the previous level.  Crane, 54, has been quick to fight what he says are unfair
government policies hurting his company’s performance.  “There no question there’s a style difference,”  Paul
Patterson , a utilities analyst, said of the erudite Rowe and
Crane, who rose to the top of the corporate ladder without a
college degree.  “I’m not sure what these guys are supposed to do,”
Patterson, a  New York  City-based analyst with Glenrock
Associates LLC, said in a telephone interview. “They’re being
confronted by policies that are damaging their bottom line. It’s
their fiduciary duty to react.”  In the process, Crane has turned old friends into enemies.
The company was booted from the board of the American Wind
Energy Association last year for opposing the extension of a
2.2-cent per kilowatt hour production tax credit that spurred a
10-fold growth in U.S. wind installations since 2003.  Tax Credit  While Congress extended the tax credit through the end of
2013, Crane continues to lobby to end the subsidy, which he says
distorts power pricing already driven to 10-year lows by an
influx of cheap natural gas.  “We’re saying stop the insanity,” Crane said in a Feb. 7
telephone interview. “We have to let this market stabilize.”  Ellen Carey, a spokeswoman for the wind group, said wind
power is lowering consumer prices.  If Exelon lost a few friends in the process, it has made
new allies among think tanks in  Washington  that advocate for
fossil-fuel development or smaller government.  Benjamin Cole, a spokesman for American Energy Alliance, a
group that promotes fossil fuel development, said his group and
Exelon communicate in weekly e-mails about how best to fight
another extension of the tax credit. The alliance says the
credit raises electricity prices.  “They are a major company that took a strong stand and put
the issue on the radar,” Cole said in an interview. “They
brought a voice and they brought volume.”  Shifting Interests  In Washington, shifting interests often push companies,
trade associations and non-profits to join forces on one issue
while fighting each other on another,  James Thurber , director of
the Center for Congressional & Presidential Studies at American
University in Washington, said in an interview.  Environmental groups and ideological non-profit
organizations often seek out corporate partners both for the
money they have and for their employees, who provide a natural
grassroots lobbying base, Thurber said.  Paul Elsberg, an Exelon spokesman, said the company decided
to rejoin the Chamber after it bought Constellation Energy Group
Inc.  “Exelon aligns with the Chamber on a number of issues that
are critical to our industry,” Elsberg said.  Two other utilities that quit the Chamber over climate
change,  PG&E Corp. (PCG)  in  San Francisco  and New Mexico-based  PNM
Resources Inc. (PNM) , have yet to rejoin, spokeswomen for the
companies said.  Lobbying Donations  Exelon is also spending more to make its point of view
heard in Washington. Exelon spent $3.7 million on lobbying when
the U.S. House debated climate legislation in 2009, according to
federal records. In 2012, it spent $6.6 million, a 78 percent
increase.  Its political action committee gave $645,100 to federal
candidates for the 2012 election, 64 percent of which went to
Republicans, with the remainder to Democrats, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics.  In 2009 and 2010, Exelon gave $548,899 to federal
candidates. Of that, Democrats received 59 percent and
Republicans 39 percent, according to the Center.  Exelon last gave more to Republicans than Democrats in the
2006 election, according to the Center.  The company ran afoul of one particular Democrat, Senator
 Richard Durbin  of Illinois, when it sued in February to overturn
a ruling by the Illinois Commerce Commission requiring its
Commonwealth Edison utility to purchase power from a project
called FutureGen.  FutureGen Project  Exelon previously had been a member of the alliance of
companies that won $1 billion in Energy Department funding for
FutureGen, which proposed to outfit an Illinois coal-burning
plant with technology that would capture and store underground
its carbon emissions.  Durbin, a champion of his state’s beleaguered coal-mining
industry, called Exelon’s new opposition a “heavy-handed
corporate betrayal” with “few parallels in Illinois history.”  The company said it never officially joined the alliance.
Its opposition now “reflects our long-held position that
customers should not be forced to pay enormous above-market
charges for electricity, as the project is now seeking,”
Elsberg said in a statement.  Exelon fell 0.4 percent to $34.35 at 10:54 a.m. in New
York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  