-- Exxon Developing Excavation Plan for Pipeline Spill in Arkansas
-- B y   E l i o t   C a r o o m   a n d   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-04-01T22:29:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/exxon-developing-excavation-plan-for-pipeline-spill-in-arkansas.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is developing an
excavation and removal plan for a damaged section of its 96,000-
barrel-a-day Pegasus crude pipeline, which was shut after a leak
was discovered in  Arkansas  on March 29.  The company said it collected about 12,000 barrels of oil
and water from the spill, classified as major by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, according to a statement from
the Mayflower Incident Unified Command Joint Information Center.
Local officials recommended 22 homes closest to the leak remain
evacuated.  “We didn’t really update it much beyond yesterday, so
we’re using 12,000 (barrels of oil and water mixture), hopefully
we can get a newer number tomorrow,” said Charlie Engelmann, a
spokesman for Exxon, by phone. “We’ve been continuing our
cleanup efforts, without a question.” Engelmann said he
couldn’t speculate on timing for repairs to the line.  The line shutdown may limit flow of crude from western
 Canada  and the U.S. Midwest, exacerbating a glut of oil in the
area. Domestic benchmark West  Texas  Intermediate weakened $1.22
today to $14.01 a barrel against Brent, the international
marker, from $12.79 on March 28, the smallest gap since July.  The 20-inch Pegasus line runs 940 miles (1,512 kilometers)
from Patoka, Illinois, to Nederland, Texas, and serves
refineries around Port Arthur and Beaumont, close to the
Louisiana line. There are four plants near the city able to
process about 1.4 million barrels a day of crude, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The sites are operated by Exxon,
Valero Energy Corp., Total SA and Motiva Enterprises LLC.  Heavy Crude  The line was carrying Wabasca Heavy Crude from western
Canada at the time of the incident, Kimberly Brasington, an
Exxon spokeswoman, said yesterday. Wabasca Heavy is a blend of
heavy oil produced in Alberta by Cenovus Energy, Canadian
Natural Resources and other companies that typically has about
4.15 percent sulfur and a 19-20 API gravity,  according to Crude
Quality Inc.   Western Canada Select, a blend of heavy bitumen and diluent
that serves as a benchmark for Alberta tar sands formations,
slipped 65 cents a barrel to trade at a $15 discount to WTI at
4:57 p.m. New York time, according to data from Calgary energy
broker Net Energy.  Exxon didn’t offer a timeline for repairs to the line. The
rupture has been located and Exxon is awaiting regulatory
approval from the Department of Transportation to begin
excavation work and repairs,  Alan Jeffers , a spokesman for the
company, said by phone yesterday.  Oiled Ducks  About 54 claims have been made, according to the joint
statement, and 10 ducks with oil on them have been recovered for
treatment, the statement showed. Two other ducks were found
dead.  A major spill in  Michigan  in July 2010 shut an Enbridge
Inc. crude pipeline for two months, and the cleanup still isn’t
complete. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency last month
directed Enbridge to perform more dredging in Michigan’s
Kalamazoo River as part of a cleanup from a July 2010 rupture of
a 30-inch pipeline that also carried heavy crude.  Exxon was fined $26,200 in 2010 by the U.S. Department of
Transportation’s Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety
Administration for failing to regularly inspect each point where
the Pegasus line crosses under a navigable waterway. PHMSA
specifically cited the line’s crossing under the Mississippi
River between Missouri and  Illinois .  The Arkansas spill was estimated at a few thousand barrels,
according to a statement yesterday from the Mayflower Unified
Command Center, which includes Exxon, Faulkner County and the
city of Mayflower, Arkansas, said in a statement yesterday.
Exxon hasn’t stated the size of the spill.  Fifteen vacuum trucks and 33 storage tanks had been
deployed to the site of the spill to aid clean up efforts,
according to the Unified Command. Exxon has sent 120 workers in
response, and crews were steam-cleaning oil from property today,
according to the joint statement.  No oil had reached nearby Lake Conway, and cleanup crews
have deployed 3,600 feet of boom as a precaution, the command
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliot Caroom in  New York  at 
 ecaroom@bloomberg.net ;
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  