-- Fantasy Baseball Teams Make Millions While Trout Earns $510,000
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-01T04:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/fantasy-baseball-teams-make-millions-while-trout-earns-510-000.html
Mike Trout, the Los Angeles Angels
record-setting outfielder, made more money for fantasy baseball
team owners last season than he earned himself.  Trout, whose combination of speed and strength helped him
win the American League Rookie of the Year award, had a base
salary of $482,500 in 2012 when he was called up from the minor
leagues one month into the season and hit .326 with 30 home runs
and 83 runs batted in. He led  Major League Baseball  with 49
stolen bases and 129 runs scored.  An afterthought in many fantasy drafts a year ago, Trout
was the unanimous choice for the rookie honor and was runner-up
for the AL Most Valuable Player award. He delivered perhaps the
best value in the history of fantasy baseball, winning millions
for the fans who drafted him, said Greg Ambrosius, the general
manager of Consumer Fantasy Games at Stats LLC.  “I don’t remember anyone in baseball going from unknown to
the No. 1 player the next year, and I’ve been doing this for 24
years,” said Ambrosius, a former president of the  Fantasy
Sports Trade Association . “It was a huge impact for the
industry.”  The baseball season began last night when the  Houston
Astros  beat the Texas Rangers 8-2. Today, the Angels open at the
 Cincinnati Reds  as one of 12 opening games.  Trout hasn’t profited from his success as much as the fans
who drafted him in their fantasy leagues, where contestants
select major-league players for imaginary teams, then compete by
comparing statistics during the season. Trout’s contract was
renewed last month for $510,000 -- $20,000 over the minimum.  Wells’s Salary  In comparison,  Vernon Wells , the outfielder the Angels
traded to the  New York  Yankees last month, has a $21 million
salary this season, according to  baseballreference.com.  Wells
batted .218 and .230 the past two seasons and probably will
become a backup when injured Yankees return to the lineup.  Players with less than three years of major league service
can try to negotiate a new contract or have their deals renewed
at a salary determined by their club. His agent, Craig Landis,
said Trout’s 2013 salary wasn’t the result of a negotiated
compromise and that he asked “only that the Angels compensate
Mike fairly for his historic 2012 season.”  Landis said in a
statement the contract “falls well short” of a fair deal.  Angels General Manager Jerry Dipoto said he doesn’t think
the contract situation will affect Trout’s future with the team
or dissuade him from eventually signing a long-term extension.  “Mike’s a great kid, he’s wired the right way and we have
every faith in his desire to be a great player,” Dipoto told
reporters last month. “He’s going to go out there and he’s
going to bust his tail.”  Future Money  Trout said through his agent that he didn’t want to comment
on the contract issue. He said his time -- and probably more
money -- will come if he continues to pile up record-setting
numbers. At 6-foot-3 and 230 pounds (1.91 meters, 104
kilograms), he was the first rookie in baseball history to
record 30 homers and 40 steals in a season.  Trout, who was drafted 25th overall in 2009 out of
Millville,  New Jersey , Senior High School, got a $1.22 million
bonus when he signed with the Angels four years ago, according
to Baseball-Reference.com. He will be atop a lineup this year
that includes  Albert Pujols  and  Josh Hamilton , both former MVPs.
The Angels enter this season with 7-1 odds of winning the  World
Series , tied with the  Washington Nationals  as the second-
favorite behind the  Detroit Tigers .  Missed Playoffs  While the Angels missed the playoffs last season, Trout was
the difference for many winning teams in the hundreds of
thousands of fantasy baseball leagues organized by friends and
co-workers, or online by companies such as ESPN, Yahoo and  CBS
Sports . He was on the highest percentage of winning teams --
more than 20 percent -- at Ambrosius’s  National Fantasy Baseball
Championship website , which has more than 5,000 fantasy squads
this season and has paid out in excess of $15 million in prize
money since 2004.  Ambrosius’s league has a $1,500 buy-in for participants in
its “Main Event,” which features a $100,000 top prize.
Ambrosius said that while balanced teams typically win, Trout
enabled fantasy owners to win millions of dollars in prize money
in 2012.  There were 33 million fantasy sports participants in the
U.S. last year, about 10 percent of the country’s population,
more than double in 2007, according to the industry association.
Major League Baseball even offers its own fantasy games through
 MLB.com .  Fantasy Value  Trout’s record-setting season enabled him to have the
biggest impact on fantasy teams of any major league player, and
that was only accentuated by his draft-day value. Since he
started the 2012 season in the minors, on average he was
selected 280th in Ambrosious’s 15-team leagues.  “If you get first-round value from a 20th-round pick,
that’s a big step toward winning a highly competitive league,”
Joe Sheehan, a  fantasy baseball contributor  for  Sports
Illustrated , said of Trout in a telephone interview.  This season, Trout or  Miguel Cabrera , the Detroit Tigers’
third baseman who was the first player in 45 years to lead his
league in home runs, RBI and batting average, are being taken
first or second in the majority of drafts.  “The skill set is there,” Ambrosius said. “There should
be no reason he can’t do well. ‘‘He’s in a good lineup and he
almost looks like a No. 3 hitter. He’s led off for them and he
can run, but this is a power hitter. This is a kid who’s 21 and
looks like a fullback or a linebacker.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  