-- Flaherty Said to Get Carney Replacement List This Week
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-04-01T13:56:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/flaherty-said-to-get-carney-replacement-list-this-week.html
Bank of  Canada  directors will give
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  a short list of candidates this
week as the search to replace Governor  Mark Carney  enters its
final stages, said two people familiar with the plans.  The central bank’s board of directors will present the list
to Flaherty after a two-day meeting in Ottawa, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the discussions are
private. Flaherty, who has said that the announcement could be
made in April, will then interview the people on the short list,
with the appointment to be approved by Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  and his cabinet.  The bank’s outside directors have been reviewing candidates
after posting the job Jan. 7, following Carney’s surprise
November announcement he would leave his job June 1 to take over
the top post at the  Bank of England . Analysts at JPMorgan Chase
& Co. have said the most likely replacements are Senior Deputy
Governor Tiff Macklem and Export Development Canada Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Poloz.  “They have to do their due diligence when it comes to
looking at a variety of candidates,” said  Mark Chandler , head
of fixed-income strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto.
“They can’t just anoint anyone.”  Macklem remains the most likely choice as Canada isn’t
looking for a major monetary-policy overhaul, Chandler said.  Dale Alexander, a Bank of Canada spokeswoman, declined to
comment. A spokesman for Flaherty didn’t respond to a phone call
and an e-mail seeking comment.  Take Over  Whoever takes over from Carney must guide the world’s 11th
largest economy through a sluggish expansion threatened by weak
exports and record consumer debts. Carney and Macklem have kept
the bank’s  policy interest rate  at 1 percent since September
2010, the longest pause since the 1950s, and the bank said in a
March 6 statement that borrowing costs would probably “remain
appropriate for a period of time.”  The government wanted to look at a broad pool of
candidates, a person with knowledge of the process told
 Bloomberg News  in January. Flaherty issued a  statement  Jan. 16
that said he would be directly involved in the selection. He
said in an interview with Reuters that the announcement could
come in April.  “The sooner the leadership is clarified, the better,”
 David Watt , chief economist in Toronto at HSBC Bank Canada, said
in a March 28 telephone interview. “You don’t necessarily want
questions being asked about the Bank of Canada’s inflation-
fighting credibility,” said Watt, a former senior economist at
the central bank.  The job has a seven-year renewable term and the salary
range for last year was C$431,800 ($424,900) to C$507,900. The
job advertisement called for “unquestioned technical
competence” in monetary policy and “a highly developed
understanding of the financial sector,” as well as
“exceptional communications skills” and ability in both
English and French.  The central bank is mandated to run monetary policy aiming
at a 2 percent target for inflation. Canada’s consumer price
 index  has risen below that target pace for the past 10 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   %CAD  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  