-- For the Supreme Court, Silence Can Be Golden
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-04-01T22:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/for-the-supreme-court-silence-can-be-golden.html
In ordinary life, silence can be
golden. Sensible and courteous people sometimes hold their
tongues, especially on highly divisive questions. As last week’s
U.S.  Supreme Court  arguments over  same-sex marriage  attest,
silence also plays a role in constitutional law.  Consider a little episode from Supreme Court history. In
 Poe v. Ullman , decided in 1961, the court was asked to strike
down a Connecticut law forbidding the use of contraceptives. It
declined to do so. But it also refused to rule that the law was
constitutional.  Instead it said that the case wasn’t “justiciable,” in
the technical sense that it wasn’t appropriate for judicial
review. The court’s reason was that the law had hardly been
enforced. The people who were challenging it (two married women
and a male physician) didn’t face the kind of immediate threat
that would justify judicial intervention.  The court’s technical argument wasn’t unreasonable. But
everyone knew that the court had the power to decide the case
and that it chose not to do so.  The problem was that in 1961, the nation was in the midst
of a large number of difficult debates about people’s rights.
Those debates involved not only contraception but also racial
segregation, criminal justice, voting rights, freedom of speech,
separation of church and state, and much more.  Pragmatic Choice  The court was a central part of those debates, and it
didn’t want to stir up further controversy. Its refusal to
pronounce on the Connecticut law reflected a distinctive form of
pragmatism. (It wasn’t until 1965 that the court saw fit to
strike down the law -- and to embark on a path of privacy
protection that led directly to  Roe v. Wade  in 1973.)  The court’s choice of silence in Poe v. Ullman doesn’t
stand on its own; it is part of a family. In 1956, the court
adopted a similar approach in refusing to decide whether states
could ban racial intermarriage. In 1974, the court  declined  to
pronounce on the constitutionality of affirmative action in
university admissions.  In recent years, the court has refused to resolve some
important legal questions raised by the war on terrorism. If the
arguments last week provide any clue, there is a good chance
that the justices will also decline to settle the California
dispute over same-sex marriage.  Why does the court opt for silence? There are two reasons,
involving humility, on the one hand, and prudence on the other.
First, the justices might be genuinely uncertain about what the
Constitution requires, and they might want to learn more before
offering their conclusion. Suppose that the constitutional
validity of some practice depends on a disputed question of
fact. What, for example, are the actual effects of affirmative-
action policies in university admissions? A period of experience
might help the court to obtain an answer.  Second, the court might believe that judicial intervention
will damage both democratic processes and the judiciary itself.
As early as 1961, the court might have been convinced that the
Constitution prohibits states from forbidding the use of
contraceptives. But the court might also have believed that with
respect to sex and contraception, Americans were re-evaluating
longstanding social norms -- and that nine people in black robes
shouldn’t disrupt that re-evaluation. And maybe the justices
believed that by declining to intervene, they could protect
their own political capital during a period in which the court
was facing political attacks.  But if silence can be golden, it can also be irresponsible,
even an abdication. Silence might authorize the perpetuation of
real injustice -- and clear violations of the Constitution.  Indecision’s Costs  Suppose the court had been able to anticipate the terrible
storm of protest that followed its 1954  decision  in Brown v.
Board of Education, forbidding racial segregation in education.
Should the justices have struggled to find a way not to decide
the case?  If the court opts for silence whenever it fears an
intensely negative public reaction, it will vindicate the
Constitution only in the easiest cases, when the public already
agrees with it. If so, what would happen to the Constitution’s
role as a safeguard against the will of political majorities?  The argument for silence is greatly weakened when the
Constitution speaks with clarity. If the court has no doubt
about what the Constitution requires, and if the legal question
is properly presented, silence is rarely a good idea. Yet if the
democratic process is intensely focused on a particular topic,
and if social understandings are in a genuine state of flux,
there is a legitimate argument for caution.  In constitutional law, as in ordinary life, the line
between cowardice and prudence can be thin, but it is prudent,
and sometimes even brave, to try to draw it.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University Professor
at  Harvard Law School , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government,” to be published on April
9. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 