-- Fridman’s Altimo May Buy Out Orascom Minorities Aiding VimpelCom
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-04-01T12:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/fridman-s-altimo-may-buy-out-orascom-minorities-aiding-vimpelcom.html
Billionaire  Mikhail Fridman  offered
to buy out investors in  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE) , a unit of
the world’s sixth-largest mobile operator, after his Alfa Group
sold out of a Russian oil producer for $14 billion.  Altimo, a unit of Fridman’s Alfa Group with an indirect
interest in Orascom, is offering 70 cents a share for the Cairo-
based operator, valuing the company at about $3.67 billion, the
Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority said yesterday. That is
about 8 percent higher than the closing price in Cairo before
the March 31 announcement.  Altimo’s  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  works in 18 countries after
acquiring control of Orascom from billionaire Naguib Sawiris in
2011. The company is seeking to end an ownership conflict with
the Algerian government and has networks in  Bangladesh , central
Africa and Pakistan. Orascom is traded in  London  and Sawiris’s
home country,  Egypt , where it doesn’t have operations.  “It’s a good moment now to buy out Orascom minorities as
the price may rise later when a settlement is reached with the
Algerian government,” Anna Kurbatova, analyst at Moscow-based
BCS Financial Group, said by phone. “VimpelCom, with $27
billion of debt, can’t afford to buy Orascom minorities itself,
while Fridman’s  Alfa Group  has just got $14 billion from selling
its oil business, TNK-BP.”  ‘Not Impressive’  Vimpelcom is seeking to keep operating control and the
right to consolidate its Algerian unit Djezzy, held by Orascom,
while the local government aims to acquire a 51 percent stake.
The sale of Djezzy will be a driver for Orascom’s stock,
according to Ivan Kim, an telecommunications analyst at VTB
Capital in Moscow.  The Algerian government and VimpelCom may reach an
agreement “soon,” local newspaper Al Khabar said last week.  Buying out the 48 percent of Orascom that Vimpelcom doesn’t
own may require $1.8 billion, according to BCS. “The premium to
market price that Altimo offered doesn’t look impressive,”
Kurbatova said, estimating Altimo may gain a 15 percent to 20
percent stake. “Not everyone will sell.”  Amsterdam-based VimpelCom doesn’t plan to sell its 51.9
percent stake to Altimo,  Bobby Leach , a spokesman, said by
mobile phone. Altimo’s spokesman Evgeny Dumalkin declined to
comment.  “We were expecting that they would be taking Orascom out
of the market, but we think it’s a very low price,” Maria Samir, a telecom analyst at Cairo-based investment bank Beltone
Financial, said by phone yesterday. “It doesn’t make sense to
remain listed when there are no operations in Egypt anymore.”  Orascom fell for a second straight day in Cairo after
Altimo’s plan was announced, dropping as much as 2.1 percent and
trading down 1 percent at 4.33 Egyptian pounds (64 cents) by
1:49 p.m. local time. The shares closed at $3.18 in London on
March 28 before markets closed for the holiday weekend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  