-- Fulham Holds On to Push QPR Closer to Premier League Relegation
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-01T23:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/fulham-holds-on-to-beat-qpr-3-2-in-soccer-s-premier-league.html
Fulham held on for a 3-2 Premier
League win over Queens Park Rangers that pushed its west London
rival closer to relegation from English soccer’s elite division.  Fulham went 3-0 up inside 41 minutes at Craven Cottage last
night on Dimitar Berbatov’s double and Clint Hill’s own goal.
QPR hit back through Adel Taarabt and Loic Remy, who also missed
a penalty kick, and Fulham clung to its lead after going a man
down in the 80th minute when Steve Sidwell was red carded.  The win leaves Fulham in 10th place with 39 points, nine
clear of the of the three relegation positions at the bottom of
the 20-team standings. Second-last QPR is seven points from
safety with seven matches remaining and next hosts 17th-place
Wigan on April 7.  “It was a disastrous first half and it cost us,” QPR
manager Harry Redknapp said in a televised interview. “We are
not giving up. We have to beat Wigan on Sunday. That is where we
are at now.”  QPR defender Christopher Samba gave away an eighth-minute
penalty kick and Berbatov converted to score in four straight
league games for the first time in his career. The Bulgarian
striker got the second goal 14 minutes later after Samba lost
control when trying to dribble the ball out of defense.  Fulham got its third goal four minutes before half time
when John Arne Riise’s cross deflected off Hill into the net.
Taarabt made it 3-1 just before the break with a shot from
outside the penalty area.  Remy had a chance to make it 3-2 early in the second half
when Taarabt was tripped in the penalty area, though Fulham
goalkeeper Mark Schwarzer made a one-handed save. Remy made
amends two minutes later when he slammed in a shot off the
underside of the crossbar.  Schwarzer’s Saves  Schwarzer saved shots from Andros Townsend and Bobby Zamora
to help Fulham, which lost Sidwell to a straight red card
following his lunge on Armand Traore, secure all three points.  “It was a bit disappointing to be 3-0 up and then make it
difficult,” said Fulham manager Martin Jol. “Hopefully 39
points is enough, but it is a tough competition.”  Redknapp said QPR needs at least 14 points from its
remaining seven games to give itself a chance of avoiding the
drop to the second-tier Championship.  “We have to try to do that,” Redknapp added. “We have to
win four and draw two, but it is getting harder.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  