-- German Inflation Probably Slowed to Two-Year Low in March
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-04-02T08:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/german-inflation-probably-slowed-to-two-year-low-in-march.html
German inflation probably slowed in
March to the lowest level in more than two years.  The inflation rate in  Europe ’s largest economy, calculated
using a  harmonized  European Union method, fell to 1.7 percent
from 1.8 percent in February, according to the median forecast
of 23 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . That would be the
lowest since November 2010. Saxony reported an inflation rate of
1.5 percent today while Hesse and Brandenburg posted rates of
1.3 percent. The Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden will
publish national data at 2 p.m.  “The inflation rate in  Germany  will remain low for quite
some time,” said Stefan Rieke, an economist at BHF Bank AG in
 Frankfurt . “The economy is growing again but not fast enough to
put significant upward pressure on consumer prices. As long as
this doesn’t change, high inflation rates will definitely not be
a concern.”  While the 17-nation euro area remains mired in recession,
the Bundesbank predicts the German economy found its way back to
growth in the first quarter after a 0.6 percent contraction in
the final three months of 2012. It forecasts inflation will
average 1.5 percent this year and 1.6 percent in 2014.  Prices for fuel decreased 6.4 percent in Hesse and Saxony
and 5.9 percent in Brandenburg in March from a year earlier,
while food prices rose 4 percent in Hesse, 4.2 percent in Saxony
and 3.2 percent in Brandenburg.  Car Sales  The sovereign debt crisis in the euro area, Germany’s
biggest export market, has forced some companies to reduce
prices.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  last month
predicted a “difficult” 2013 as the European auto market
contracts, vehicle prices in the region drop and growth in  China 
slows.  At the same time, consumption and prices in Germany may get
a boost this year from higher wages. German workers won deals of
as much as 6.5 percent last year and  IG Metall  is seeking pay
increases of 5.5 percent in 2013.  In the euro area, inflation probably slowed to 1.6 percent
in March from 1.8 percent in February, according to a separate
 survey  of economists. The European Union statistic’s office in
Luxembourg will publish that report at 11 a.m. tomorrow.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  last month
said the region’s inflation outlook is “broadly balanced,”
even though the risks to the economy are on the downside.  The Frankfurt-based central bank on March 7 cut its
inflation projection for 2014 to 1.3 percent from 1.4 percent
and predicted annual consumer-price gains will average 1.6
percent this year. It aims to keep inflation just below 2
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  