-- Foreigners Sell Most Korean Stocks Since May on Yen, Tension
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2013-04-02T01:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/global-funds-sell-most-korean-stocks-since-may-on-yen-tensions.html
International investors sold the
most South Korean equities in 10 months in March amid concerns
the nation’s exporters will lose market share to Japanese rivals
and as tension with North Korea rose.  Foreign funds unloaded a net 2.6 trillion won ($2.3
billion) of  Kospi index  shares last month, the most since May
when they dumped 3.7 trillion won, Korea Exchange Inc. data
show. Purchases by domestic institutional and retail investors
helped the  stock gauge  to trim its monthly loss to 1.1 percent.
The measure lost 0.1 percent at 10:10 a.m. in Seoul today, while
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index slipped 0.5 percent.  Global funds have reduced their holdings of South Korean
equities as concerns deepened a weaker yen would give Japanese
electronics and car makers an advantage over Korean producers.
Vanguard Group Inc.’s decision to drop the country’s shares from
its emerging-market exchange-traded fund also spurred sales. The
outflows present an opportunity to add stocks cheaply, according
to UBS Wealth Management.  “Undoubtedly, market sentiment on South Korea is not
positive at the moment, given the continued weakness of the yen
and the tensions with North Korea,” Kelvin Tay, the Singapore-
based chief investment officer for the southern Asia-Pacific
region at the wealth management unit of UBS AG, wrote in an e-
mail yesterday. “But we view this as an opportunity to
accumulate given the attractive valuations and the likely fiscal
stimulus from the Korean government.”  Samsung, Posco  The Kospi trades at 9.2 times 12-month projected profit, a
51 percent discount versus the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY) ’s 18.5
times, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The discount was at 54
percent on March 21, which was the biggest since May 2010, the
data show. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index trades at 10.5  times 
profit.  Foreign ownership of  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , South Korea’s
largest company by market value, fell to 49.6 percent in March,
the lowest level since June, while holdings for  Posco (005490)  fell to
the lowest since September, exchange data showed.  The yen weakened to a four-year low against the won on
March 8 as Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe called for more
monetary easing to end deflation, making the nation’s exporters
more competitive versus South Korean rivals. While Japan’s
currency has gained 4.9 percent since then, Mark Mobius,
executive chairman of Templeton  Emerging Markets  Group, said
last month investors need to watch the won “very carefully” to
see if it strengthens versus the yen.  Nuclear Threats  South Korean exports grew less than forecast last month as
improving global demand for the country’s electronics and cars
was tempered by the weaker yen.  Overseas shipments  rose 0.4
percent in March from a year earlier, after an 8.6 percent drop
in February, the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy said
yesterday. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News economist
survey was for a 1.8 percent gain.  Tensions with North Korea have risen since the communist
nation detonated a nuclear device in February in defiance of
global sanctions. The regime led by Kim Jong Un cut off a
military hot line with the South last month, put artillery
forces on high alert, threatened pre-emptive nuclear strikes,
and went on to say it’s in a “state of war” with the South.  Credit Suisse Group AG recommended an “overweight” stance
on South Korean equities, analysts led by Sakthi Siva wrote in a
March 25 report. The market is under-owned by foreign investors
and the country is poised to benefit from a U.S. economic
recovery, they said.  Vanguard ETF  Overseas investors have sold a net $1.9 billion worth of
South Korean equities this year through March 29, the most of 10
Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg. That compares with a net $37
billion  purchases  through March 22 in  Japan , the data show.  International investors also pulled their money in March as
Vanguard decided to have its emerging markets exchange-traded
fund track an index compiled by FTSE Group, which classifies
South Korea as a developed market. The move was estimated by
Barclays Plc in a Feb. 4 report to lead to $9 billion of
outflows from Korean stocks in the first quarter.  Inflows by local investors are likely to make up for
foreign selling toward the second half of this year, Barclays
analysts led by Chanik Park wrote in a March 25 note, saying
they are turning more “positive” on Korean equities. Expected
fiscal stimulus by the government should improve local
investors’ sentiment, the analysts wrote.  Domestic institutional investors bought a net 1.6 trillion
won worth of shares in the Kospi from mid-March to the end of
the month, while retail investors purchased 831 billion won,
Korea Exchange data show.  Tax Breaks  South Korea announced on March 28 it will unveil a stimulus
package this month to revive the economy after cutting its
growth forecast for the second time in four months. The country
said yesterday it will give tax breaks to home buyers and cut
borrowing costs as the government seeks to revive home sales
that tumbled to the lowest level since 2006.  “The expected pump-priming policy from the new government
will help support domestic demand,” Im Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based
fund manager at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $29 billion, said by phone on March 28. “I
believe South Korean markets will be able to outperform,
catching up with gains in other markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in  Seoul  at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  