-- Illinois Pension Bills Squeeze Penalty to 2011 Low: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-04-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/illinois-pension-bills-squeeze-penalty-to-2011-low-muni-credit.html
Investors betting the worst is over
for Illinois have driven its debt to the strongest level in two
years as the state offers $800 million of general-obligation
bonds, its biggest sale in 11 months.  Lawmakers are advancing measures to fix the worst-funded
U.S. state pension system, encouraging investors to look past
events of the first quarter. Illinois in January became the
state with the lowest  credit rating , causing it to postpone a
debt sale. Last month it settled with the Securities and
Exchange Commission over claims it misled bond buyers.  With annual pension costs projected to grow by more than
$900 million in next year’s budget, lawmakers in both chambers
last month passed bills to rein in retirement costs. The House
plan would cut Illinois’s unfunded liabilities by $20 billion
immediately and save $100 billion over 30 years, according to
Democratic Representative Elaine Nekritz.  “There’s more upside than downside at this point,” said
Eric Friedland, head of muni research in New York at Schroder
Investment Management North America, which oversees $2 billion
of local debt, including  Illinois  general obligations. “The
legislature is getting the message. Investors want to see
pension reform.”  Squeezy Strangle  Four months after Democratic Governor Pat Quinn released a
video showing a cartoon of “Squeezy the Pension Python”
threatening to strangle the capitol building in Springfield,
investors are looking to Illinois debt to pad returns. Buyers
demand  1.3 percentage points  of extra yield on 10-year debt from
Illinois and its localities, close to the smallest since
February 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  That spread will be put to the test tomorrow when the state
offers its first issue since  Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating to
A-, six levels below AAA.  Friedland and Wendy Casetta at  Wells Capital  Management
said the state’s 10-year general-obligations will probably price
to yield about 1.5 percentage points more than AAA munis, about
where they’re trading in the secondary market. Both said they
would consider adding the debt.  ‘Big Buyers’  “We don’t expect to see them go below A-,” said Casetta,
who helps oversee $32 billion in munis for Wells Capital in
 Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin . “We’ve been big buyers of Illinois
debt in the past, and we’ll continue to support the state,
particularly now that they’re trying to do the right thing.”  Illinois lawmakers still have to agree on legislation.
While the House bill passed March 21 by 66-50 with bipartisan
support, legislators are in recess and are scheduled to return
the week of April 8. The budget session is set to end May 31.
Democrats have majorities in both chambers.  Beyond the obstacles of producing a consensus is the
question of legality. The state constitution says pension
benefits “shall not be diminished or impaired,” and opponents
of the bills, led by employee unions, have said changes in
retirement payments would be challenged in court.  Moody’s Investors Service said in a March 26 report that
litigation “may once again deter action or lead to reforms with
little effect.” The New York-based company affirmed Illinois’s
A2 rating, also its worst state grade, with a negative outlook,
meaning its credit could be cut further.  BlackRock’s Stance  Pension-overhaul skeptics include  Peter Hayes , head of
munis at BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest money manager. Even
though the company’s  Intermediate Municipal Fund (MAMTX)  counts Illinois
general obligations as its biggest bond holding, he said he’s
more likely to buy when proposed fixes are signed into law.  “Most people don’t make investment decisions on slivers of
hope,” said Hayes, who oversees $109 billion in munis for New
York-based BlackRock. “They need to have actual initiatives get
passed in order for that spread to tighten up and investors to
maintain more confidence.”  The state is grappling with a $97 billion pension-system
shortfall. Last month it settled with the SEC without admitting
or denying the regulator’s findings, which claimed the state
failed to disclose the degree of underfunding for its pension
plans from 2005 to 2009 as it sold $2.2 billion in bonds. The
agreement didn’t include fines or penalties.  Highest Yields  Still, investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal market are
confident they will get paid. Illinois has one of the seven
strongest legal protections among state general-obligations, as
measured by  Fidelity Investments  in a 2011 report.  Even with the added security, the yield spread on Illinois
issuers relative to AAA tax-exempts is the highest among 19
states tracked by Bloomberg. The fifth-most-populous state may
have to increase  interest rates  by as much as 0.1 percentage
point to get its deal done, Hayes said.  California  last month raised yields on some debt to
complete a $2.1 billion general-obligation sale. Before the
offer, California debt was the strongest since 2008, after
Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, proposed a budget with a
surplus, California’s first in almost a decade.  “It didn’t take much positive news for California spreads
to tighten significantly and quickly,” Friedland said. “If you
think Illinois is reaching a bottom, this would be a good time
to buy.”  John Sinsheimer, the state’s director of  capital markets ,
didn’t respond to calls for comment.  The state has the advantage of selling after a two-week
rally pushed muni yields down from an 11-month high. At 1.96
percent, yields on tax-exempt benchmarks due in 10 years still
exceed the 1.85 percent interest rate on federal debt. That has
been the case since March 13, the longest span since September,
signaling munis are relatively cheaper than Treasuries.  Illinois’s offer includes a $350 million taxable portion
and is part of about $5 billion that localities plan to borrow
this week, Bloomberg data show. Issuance is up from last week’s
 $3.1 billion , the smallest slate since early January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  