-- Indonesia Stocks Poised for 17% Annual Gain, Manulife Says
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-04-01T07:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/indonesia-stocks-poised-for-best-year-since-2010-manulife-says.html
Indonesian stocks are poised for the
 steepest  annual gain in three years as domestic consumption
drives the fastest economic expansion in  Asia  after  China ,
according to the country’s second-largest mutual fund manager.  The benchmark  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  may advance as much
as 17 percent this year, Alvin Pattisahusiwa, director of
investment at PT Manulife Aset Manajemen Indonesia, said in an
e-mail interview last week. The gauge already jumped 14 percent
in the first  quarter , the most since the three months to
September 2010, closing at a record on March 28. Markets were
shut on March 29 for a holiday.  Gains will be led by domestic-oriented stocks as low-
interest loans and the introduction of a  minimum wage  spur
household spending even as living costs rise, Pattisahusiwa
said.  Consumer spending  accounted for almost 55 percent of the
country’s nominal gross domestic product in 2012, compared with
55 percent in  Thailand  and 74 percent in  Philippines , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If we look at earnings growth this year of 14 percent to
17 percent, the index has the potential to rise that much,”
said Pattisahusiwa, who helps manage $1.9 billion of assets in
Jakarta. “Domestic-oriented stocks will be the biggest
contributor to the index. Currently, there is a split where
investors have a positive view on domestic-oriented sectors,
while demand for the commodity sectors has not picked up.”  Pattisahusiwa said there may be scope for higher index
targets should analysts upgrade earnings forecasts following
first-quarter profit reports. Within the Jakarta Composite, 57
percent of its companies reported fourth-quarter  profit  that
beat estimates, according to data on 54 corporate results
compiled by Bloomberg.  Steepest Rally  Indonesia ’s economic growth is expected to accelerate to
6.25 percent in 2013 from 6.23 percent last year, according to
the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey. Gross
domestic product is predicted to expand even as the nation
grapples with a weakening currency, rising energy imports and
the fastest inflation in almost two years.  The Jakarta Composite Index lost 0.1 percent to 4,935.756
as of 1:57 p.m in Jakarta today. A 17 percent gain by the gauge
this year would be the steepest  annual advance  since 2010’s 46
percent. The measure’s increase in the first quarter compares
with a 1.9 percent decline in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index
and a 5.7 percent increase by the MSCI  Southeast Asia  Index.  Pattisahusiwa’s firm is a unit of  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) ,
 Canada ’s largest insurer. Manulife’s biggest Indonesian equity-
focused mutual fund, which has about $327 million of assets, has
returned 29 percent since it was started in August 2003,
compared with the Jakarta Composite Index’s 26 percent gain,
according to a fund fact sheet on the firm’s  website .  Top Holdings  Pattisahusiwa declined to name his favored stocks. The
Manulife fund’s top five holdings as of Feb. 28 were PT Astra
International,  PT Bank Central Asia (BBCA) , PT Bank Mandiri, PT Bank
Rakyat Indonesia and PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia, according to
the fact sheet. Financial shares accounted for 38 percent of the
fund, the fact sheet showed.  The Jakarta Composite trades at 15.1 times projected 12-
month earnings, the most expensive in Southeast Asia after the
Philippines, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Indonesian gauge is valued at a 44 percent premium to the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index, the data show.  The nation’s stocks will probably be volatile this year as
inflation accelerates after the government raised electricity
tariffs and imposed a minimum wage, Pattisahusiwa said.
President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono ’s administration said on
March 19 that it’s considering changes to its fuel-subsidy
policy amid surging oil imports, which cost the nation $29
billion last year.  Volatility Rising  “The plan to raise subsidized fuel prices is a double-
edged sword,” Pattisahusiwa said. “On one hand it is good for
the health of our fiscal situation and budget, but it will
affect inflation.”  A gauge of 30-day  volatility  on the Jakarta Composite, a
measure of price swings, was at 13.7 on March 28, the highest
level since October. Inflation quickened to a 22-month high in
March, data today showed. The rupiah fell for a seventh quarter
in the three months ended March 31, the longest losing streak
since 1998.  The Jakarta Construction, Property and Real Estate Index
has jumped 41 percent this year, the best-performing  group  in
the benchmark gauge, while the Mining Index has lost 4.4 percent
as global commodity prices dropped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  