-- Lion Air Plans Asia to Australia Ventures With 1,000 Planes
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-04-02T05:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/lion-air-plans-asia-australia-ventures-using-1-000-plane-fleet.html
PT Lion Mentari Airlines plans to
set up ventures across Asia and  Australia  to expand after
placing orders of more than $45 billion with Airbus SAS and
 Boeing Co. (BA)  in the past two years.  Indonesia ’s biggest private carrier is considering
partnerships in  Thailand , Myanmar, and Vietnam, Commercial
Director Edward Sirait said in an interview yesterday. Lion Air,
which has the world’s biggest order backlog for 559 narrow-body
aircraft, aims to have 1,000 planes in 10 years, he said.  The carrier’s plan mirrors the strategy of  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) 
that has set up ventures across the region to become Southeast
Asia’s biggest discount operator. Singapore Airlines Ltd. and
Qantas Airways Ltd. are among companies that have also started
budget airlines as Asia’s economic growth enables more people to
fly for the first time.  “The outlook for budget carriers in the region is
excellent,” Shukor Yusof,  a Singapore-based aviation analyst
at  Standard & Poor’s , said by phone today. “You are looking at
an annual growth of 12 to 15 percent for discount carriers in
this region.”  Lion is also setting up a Malaysian venture to challenge
AirAsia’s grip on the region’s budget travel market. Malindo
Airways, which will draw its fleet from planes ordered by Lion
Air Group, aims to start flights this year.  Virgin, Tiger  Lion Air, based in Jakarta, is also considering a venture
in Australia, as Qantas seeks to defend its 65 percent market
share in that country amid rising competition.  Virgin Australia
Holdings Ltd. (VAH) , which sold a stake to Singapore Air last year, is
also seeking to build on alliances by acquiring  Tiger Airways
Holdings Ltd. (TGR) ’s Australian unit and regional carrier  Skywest
Airlines Ltd. (SKYW)   State-owned  PT Garuda Indonesia (GIAA)  last week said it would
start a Sydney-to-London flight via Jakarta in the fourth
quarter, competing with Qantas and Singapore Air. Qantas has
formed an alliance with Emirates to cut travel times to Europe
by using the Gulf carrier’s Dubai hub.  More than a dozen discount carriers began operations in
Asia-Pacific in the past 15 years. Budget carriers’ market share
in Asia-Pacific rose to 24 percent last year from 1.1 percent in
2001, according to CAPA Centre for Aviation, an industry
consultancy. Total traffic for the region will expand 6.4
percent a year during the next 20 years, Boeing has forecast.  “The venture in Myanmar and  Vietnam  could work as those
are the markets that have not been penetrated enough,” S&P’s
Yusof said.“With the number of aircraft that they are taking,
they should do something there.”  Narrowbody Planes  That has spurred airlines to order more aircraft. AirAsia
has built a backlog of 359 narrowbody planes, according to
Bloomberg Industries. The Malaysian carrier has set up ventures
in the  Philippines , Japan, Thailand, India and Indonesia.  “The economic growth in this region has been strong and
this will translate to air  travel demand ,” Sirait said. “Lion
Air is anticipating this by ordering these aircraft early. We
want to set up partnerships in a number of countries.”  Asia will be able to take in more aircraft as economic
growth and a population of more than 3 billion people will
sustain travel demand,  Tony Fernandes , head of AirAsia, said
last month. The region, which has 10 times the population of the
U.S., has about a third of the number of aircraft, according to
Fernandes.  Lion Air started operations from Indonesia in 2000 with one
aircraft, according to the airline’s website. The carrier was
the launch customer for Boeing’s 737-900ER, and currently serves
more than 36 destinations.  Lion Air agreed to buy 234 Airbus planes last month, its
second commitment in two years to purchase more than 200 planes.
Most aircraft on its fleet will be used to service Indonesian
operations, Sirait said. The airline has a total of 700 planes
on order, including turboprop aircraft.  “The plan A that we have is to put all these planes that
we have ordered into operation,” Sirait said. “We also have
plan B: if someone is keen to lease our planes of course we will
do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  