-- Lira Bonds Worst Performer as Policy Confuses: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-04-01T09:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/lira-bonds-worst-performer-as-policy-confuses-turkey-credit.html
Turkish lira bonds underperformed
all other major  emerging markets  last month amid skepticism that
the central bank’s measures to contain loan growth will work.  Two-year note yields jumped 66 basis points in March,
erasing declines earlier this year, in the biggest monthly
increase in local-currency debt among 16 emerging markets
tracked by Bloomberg. Investors who bought lira  bonds  incurred
the first monthly losses since January 2011, according to a Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index.  A day after cutting overnight lending rates by 100 basis
points, the central bank said March 27 that its overall strategy
was to tighten monetary policy to rein in lending and the
current-account gap. The statement spurred an eight basis-point
surge in the benchmark two-year yield to a four-month high.  “The central bank’s policy mix still requires a lot of
explaining,”  Manik Narain , an emerging-markets strategist at
UBS Bank AG in  London , said in e-mailed comments on March 27.
“With credit growth running well in excess of the central
bank’s target, yet the central bank seemingly reluctant to
embrace an obviously more hawkish stance, investors have begun
to take profits after a very strong run.”  Bank lending grew 19.9 percent in the 12 months to March
15, exceeding the central bank’s year-end target of 15 percent.  Last month’s jump in yields left the rate on benchmark lira
debt 17 basis points higher for the year. Foreign investors sold
$1.6 billion of Turkish bonds in the five days ending March 15,
the biggest weekly outflow since 2007, and another $166 million
the following week, according to central bank data.  Trade Gap  While the  current-account deficit  jumped for a third month
in January to $5.63 billion, a report March 29 showed an
unexpected narrowing in the  trade balance  in February.  The  Monetary Policy Committee  in Ankara cut the upper end
of its so-called interest-rates corridor, the overnight lending
rate, to 7.5 percent from 8.5 percent while leaving the lower
band, the overnight borrowing rate, unchanged at 4.5 percent and
the benchmark one-week repurchase rate at 5.5 percent.  “The current policy framework is expected to contain the
widening in the current-account deficit,” the central bank
said. Policy makers use rates to control capital flows and
prevent volatility in the lira, and other measures including
frequent reserve requirement adjustments to curb bank lending,
which may widen the deficit by fueling demand for imports.  While the central bank didn’t raise  reserve requirements 
last week, it made holding foreign exchange or gold more
expensive by increasing a so-called reserve option coefficient.  ‘Banks Confused’  “Banks are confused because they are unsure whether
interest rate margins will rise or fall,” Ugur Kucuk, a fixed-
income strategist at Is Investment Securities,  Turkey ’s biggest
brokerage, said in e-mailed comments on March 27. “But the
picture for the  bond market  is clear, my recommendation is to
sell short-term debt and buy long-term debt.”  The  overnight cost of borrowing  in the interbank market
jumped to 6.14 percent from 5.70 percent on the day the central
bank reduced the overnight lending rate.  “I can only see one reason” for the increase on the
 interbank market , Peter Skoettegaard Oeemig, an economist at
 Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK)  in Silkeborg in  Denmark , said in e-mailed
comments on March 27. “The central bank changed the assessment
of the macroeconomic situation, an early warning of needed
future monetary tightening.”  Record Deficit  Governor Erdem Basci introduced his rates corridor in
October of 2011, a policy that allows him to mix funding among
three different rates rather than relying on a single benchmark
rate. The lira tumbled 18 percent that year and yields jumped
390 basis points as the current-account shortfall widened to a
record 10 percent of gross domestic product.  The lira weakened 0.1 percent to 1.8116 against the dollar
at 12:10 p.m. in Istanbul today, extending last month’s 0.7
percent decline. The currency depreciated 1.6 percent this year.  Two-year yields were unchanged at 6.35 percent today.
Yields on Turkey’s 10-year bonds decreased two basis points to
7.14 percent, after last month’s 35 basis points advance, the
most since September 2011.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar-
denominated sovereign bonds rather than  U.S. Treasuries  fell one
basis point to 229 on March 28, trimming the increase in March
to 27 basis points, the most since May, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co’s EMBI  Global Diversified (EXG)  index.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Turkey rose seven basis
points to 148 on March 28, up nine basis points last month. That
compares with 17 basis-point monthly increase to 164 for  Russia .
The contracts, which rise as perceptions of creditworthiness
deteriorate, pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or cash equivalent if a borrower fails to
adhere to its debt agreements. Markets were closed in the U.S.
and western  Europe  on March 29.  “Credit stress is starting to rise again and there is
still a great deal of confusion in the market,” UBS’s Narain
said. “The market will be waiting for these signs of slower
credit growth before pushing yields lower again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  