-- Iran Bristles at Azerbaijan for Hosting Gathering of Separatists
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2013-04-01T10:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/iran-bristles-at-azerbaijan-for-hosting-gathering-of-separatists.html
Iran  lodged a protest with
Azerbaijan, an ally of the U.S. and  Israel , for hosting a
conference of groups seeking independence for the Islamic
republic’s 20 million-strong minority of ethnic Azeris.  Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister Seyyed Abbas Araqchi
yesterday summoned Azerbaijan’s ambassador to Tehran, Cavansir
Axundov, telling him that “such actions can seriously damage”
ties between the two neighbors, according to Iran’s state-run
 Press TV  news channel. Elman Abdullayev, a spokesman for the
Azeri Foreign Ministry, wasn’t immediately available to comment.  Speakers at the conference, held last week at a hotel in
central Baku, the Azeri capital, said Iran is in the throes of a
deep economic and political crisis because of western sanctions
against the Persian Gulf state’s nuclear program. Ethnic Azeris
were urged to seize the opportunity to build a state in the
northwest provinces bordering the Republic of Azerbaijan.  The conference was organized by the so-called South
Azerbaijan National Liberation Front, bringing together groups
and organizations seeking greater rights and independence for a
community that makes up about a quarter of Iran’s 75 million
population. The event also featured academics, Azeri parliament
members and former officials, including Nasib Nasibli, the
country’s ex-ambassador to Iran. No current Azeri government
officials took part.  Araqchi described as “provocative” the expression of
“intimidating and politically-motivated anti-Iran comments” at
the conference in Baku. “Such moves only serve the interests of
Israeli circles,” he said, according to Press TV.  Neighborly Disputes  The nations, which share a 756-kilometer (470-mile) border,
have been locked in disputes since the former Soviet republic
won independence in 1991. Iran has pressured Azerbaijan to cut
ties with Israel and Western nations and opposed the entry of
companies like  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  in energy projects on the Caspian Sea.  Last May, Iran recalled its ambassador to Azerbaijan for
consultations for several weeks after Islamic “sanctities”
were insulted at a rally in Baku.  Azerbaijan, which has been buying drones and missile-
defense systems from Israel, has accused Iran of helping arch-
foe  Armenia  in the war over the disputed region of Nagorno-
Karabakh after the Soviet collapse two decades ago. The
government of President Ilham Aliyev last year jailed dozens of
Azeri citizens for their alleged involvement in an Iranian-
backed plot to carry out a wave of terror attacks on western and
Israeli targets in Baku.  Iran’s Shiite religion is shared by two-thirds of
Azerbaijan’s population of more than 9 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  