-- Manufacturing Cools in U.S. as Government Cuts Loom: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-04-01T20:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/ism-index-of-u-s-manufacturing-decreased-to-51-3-in-march.html
Manufacturing grew less than
forecast in March as orders and production cooled, highlighting
the risk of a U.S. economic slowdown this quarter as  federal
budget  cuts take effect.  The Institute for Supply Management’s factory  index  fell to
51.3 from an almost two-year high of 54.2 in February, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group’s figures showed today. A reading of
50 is the dividing line between growth and contraction. Another
report showed construction spending climbed in February, led by
the strongest home-building outlays in more than four years.  The manufacturing report showed housing- and auto-related
industries outpaced other areas last month, a sign consumer
spending is bolstering the expansion, while exports grew at the
fastest pace in almost a year. At the same time, a failure to
reach compromise on ways to reduce the debt triggered $85
billion in across-the-board federal spending cuts on March 1,
giving factories reason to take a guarded approach.  “The manufacturing outlook is positive, broadly, with a
couple of cloudy areas,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, whose
ISM forecast was the closest among those surveyed by Bloomberg.
“It highlights the downside of reduced government spending but
underscores a fairly stable private sector.”  Stocks fell as manufacturing slid, pulling the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index lower after reaching a record high last week.
The S&P 500 dropped 0.5 percent to 1,562.17 at the close in New
York.  Asian Manufacturers  Elsewhere today, confidence among big Japanese
manufacturers in March improved less than economists estimated
as companies said they’ll cut investment by the most since the
global recession. In  China , manufacturing expanded at a faster
pace last month, indicating the world’s second-largest economy
is stabilizing.  Another U.S. report today highlighted the risk from the
budget reductions. Spending on  construction projects  rose 1.2
percent in February, paced by the highest level of homebuilding
in more than four years, according to figures from the Commerce
Department. The data also showed federal outlays were the only
weak spot, falling in February for a second consecutive month.  “The upturn in housing starts is translating to a greater
increase in outright expenditures, which is adding to GDP
growth,” said Michelle Meyer, senior U.S. economist at Bank of
America Corp. in New York, who correctly projected the gain in
construction spending. “You’re still seeing a slightly upward
trend. The increase was driven by single-family construction.”  Raising Forecasts  Economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York today raised
their tracking estimate for first-quarter growth to a 3.8
percent annualized rate from 2.7 percent, reflecting the
improving outlook for consumer spending and homebuilding. The
world’s largest economy will grow at a 1.8 percent pace this
quarter as the government cutbacks set in, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg in March.  The  median  forecast of 69 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected the U.S. ISM’s factory index would drop to 54.
Estimates ranged from LeBas’s 51.6 to 55. The 2.9-point decline
in the factory gauge was the biggest since July 2011.  The purchasers group’s orders gauge dropped 6.4 points to
51.4, the biggest retreat since June, and the production index
decreased to a six-month low, today’s report showed.  On the more positive side, the group’s employment measure
climbed to the highest level since June, and its export gauge
showed the strongest reading in almost a year.  ‘Slight Breather’  Manufacturers are taking a “slight breather,” reflecting
caution about domestic demand, Bradley Holcomb, the ISM’s
factory survey chairman, said in a conference call today.  While most member comments were positive, there was some
concern about government policy and the effects that
sequestration, or the automatic spending cuts triggered last
month when lawmakers in  Washington  failed to reached compromise
on reducing the debt, would have on the economy, said Holcomb.  Sequestration trims 5 percent from domestic agencies and 8
percent from the Defense Department this fiscal year.  Auto sales, which are projected to climb this year to the
highest level since 2007, and housing have been a boom for
manufacturers. Consumer spending climbed in February by the most
in five months, even in the face of a 2 percentage-point
increase in the payroll tax, according to Commerce Department
figures issued last week. Gains in employment are among reasons
for the pickup.  Manufacturers projecting a better outlook include  Texas
Instruments Inc. (TXN)  The largest maker of analog chips raised the
lower end of its forecasts for first-quarter sales and profit.  Orders Rising  “The stronger demand environment has continued,”  Ron Slaymaker , vice president of the Dallas-based company, said on a
March 7 conference call with analysts. “Quarter-to-date orders
have been growing strongly.”  Manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy, has rebounded following a mid-2012 slowdown. Orders for
durable goods jumped 5.7 percent in February, the most since
September, after falling 3.8 percent the prior month, the
Commerce Department said on March 26.  Federal Reserve policy makers have said they’re concerned
the fiscal restraint may impede the expansion’s progress. The
economy cooled to a 0.4 percent annual rate in the final three
months of 2012, after growing at a 3.1 percent pace in the third
quarter.  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , the maker of Pratt & Whitney jet
engines and Otis elevators, is among businesses projecting
economic growth will improve.  “The U.S. economy is better and it is going to continue to
get better,” Gregory Hayes, chief financial officer of the
Hartford, Connecticut-based company, said at a March 14 analyst
meeting. “We’ve got another year-and-a-half or so probably of
low interest-rate environment, which we could hope to capitalize
on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  