-- Liver Disease Treatments to Help Drive Sanofi China Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-01T08:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/liver-disease-treatments-to-help-drive-sanofi-china-sales.html
Sanofi (SAN) ,  France ’s biggest drugmaker,
sees revenue growth opportunities from treatments for liver
disease in China, home to half the world’s deaths related to the
organ, Chief Executive Officer Chris Viehbacher said.  The company recently received approval for its cancer drug
Eloxatin to be used against liver cancer in China, Viehbacher
said at a briefing in Beijing today. Sanofi is on course to open
four factories in the Asian nation this year to make vaccines as
well as consumer- and animal-health products, he said.  Treatments for rare diseases, vaccines, and health care for
people and animals will help Sanofi record “double-digit”
sales growth in China this year, Viehbacher said, without being
more specific. Rising incomes and urbanization are bolstering
demand for more treatments in  China , where liver cancer causes
the most deaths among cancers after the lung, according to
statistics from the nation’s health ministry.  China is the first country where Eloxatin has been approved
as a liver-cancer drug, Viehbacher said. “This is a huge
opportunity to increase access to care for liver cancer because
the only product available today is extremely expensive and not
widely accessible,” he said, without giving estimates for
prices or potential sales.  Hepatitis B, a liver infection that puts people at high
risk of death from liver cirrhosis and cancer, is “ endemic ” in
China and other parts of Asia, according to the World Health
Organization.  Sanofi’s  sales from China  rose 27 percent to 1.25 billion
euros ($1.6 billion) in 2012, accounting for 3.6 percent of
total revenue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The four new China factories include a consumer-health
plant and a pharmaceutical factory in Hangzhou, and production
facilities for vaccines and animal health in Shenzhen and
Nanchang, respectively, Helen Yan, the company’s Asia head of
communications, said at the briefing.  Spending in China’s health-care industry will more than
double to 10 trillion  yuan  ($1.6 trillion) by 2020, from 4
trillion yuan now, according to estimates given March 13 by Wang
Hongguang, a researcher at the Ministry of Science & Technology.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  