-- Japan Banks Urge Abe to Release ‘Third Arrow’ to Spark Lending
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2013-04-01T07:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/japan-banks-urge-abe-to-release-third-arrow-to-spark-lending.html
Japan ’s new bank lobby chief urged
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to follow through on his pledge of
sparking private investment through deregulation, a stimulus
element the group says is key to boosting anemic loan demand.  “Domestic lending is turning around, but it isn’t strong
just yet,” said Takeshi Kunibe, who replaced Yasuhiro Sato
today as chairman of the Japanese Bankers Association. “We hope
Abe’s policies will bolster business confidence and encourage
companies to increase  capital spending .”  Abe has spurred a stock market  rally  and reversed the yen’s
strength since winning elections in December on the promise of
bold monetary easing, flexible fiscal policy and the “third
arrow” of deregulation. Japan’s quarterly Tankan survey today
showed the steepest gain in large-manufacturer confidence since
September 2011 on expectations of more central bank stimulus.  “Japan’s recovery for the medium to long term requires
structural and regulatory reforms,” said Kunibe, 59, who is
also president of  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) ’s banking
unit. “We strongly expect Abe to shoot his third arrow.”  The Tankan rose to minus 8 in March from minus 12 in
December, the Bank of Japan said today. The median estimate of
24 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  was for minus 7. A
negative figure means pessimists still outnumber optimists.  Overseas Growth  To offset muted corporate borrowing and loan profitability
caused by 15 years of deflation and sluggish growth at home,
Japan’s banks are looking for  demand  in overseas markets.  Domestic  loans  by the country’s city banks including
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Sumitomo Mitsui and  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. (8411)  rose 1.1 percent in February from a year
earlier to 198 trillion yen ($2.1 trillion), according to
central bank data.  Lending overseas is likely to increase during the fiscal
year started today, Kunibe said.  Mitsubishi UFJ, Japan’s largest lender by market value, had
21.9 trillion yen of loans outstanding overseas as of Dec. 31, a
20 percent jump from a year earlier,  company data  show. Lending
abroad at  Sumitomo Mitsui  and Mizuho grew 15 percent and 6.3
percent, respectively.  “Where you can expect growth to come from is still outside
Japan,” said Kunibe.  In his effort boost domestic growth and international
competitiveness through deregulation, Abe last month agreed to
join talks on an American-led regional trade pact that may help
domestic auto and electronics makers compete with rivals in
 South Korea , which already has a free trade deal with the U.S.  ‘Decisive Easing’  New BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said last month he aims to
achieve 2 percent inflation through measures including lowering
the entire yield curve through “decisive monetary easing.”
He’s slated to hold his first policy meeting on April 3-4.  Asset purchases by the  Bank of Japan (8301)  are likely to push
down yields on short-term government notes, boosting returns for
lenders from bond holdings, said Kunibe. Japanese banks
increased JGB holdings by 1.1 percent to 164 trillion yen in
February from a month earlier, close to the  record  171 trillion
yen held in March 2012, central bank data show.  “For the medium term, the government must show a path
toward sound public finances to avoid a jump in yields,” said
Kunibe. “If it fails to raise  sales tax  as planned, for
example, such a risk may grow.”  Japan’s benchmark  10-year yield  rose half a basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 0.565 percent today, while the five-
year rate stood at 0.135 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  