-- Jazztel Bucking Slump Seen Luring Vodafone Bid: Real M&A
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-04-02T16:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/jazztel-bucking-slump-seen-luring-vodafone-bid-real-m-a.html
Jazztel Plc (JAZ)  offers potential
acquirers the chance to gain share in the Spanish phone market
as one of Europe’s few remaining fast-growing carriers.  Revenue at Jazztel, a provider of broadband and mobile-
phone services, is projected to outpace all of its larger
competitors in Spain and 91 percent of European peers through
2015, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Those growth
prospects could attract  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  as it tries to halt
Spanish market-share losses, while Orange Spain --  France
Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Spanish unit -- could seek to buy Jazztel to add
more subscribers and shore up its position in the country,
according to Swisscanto Asset Management AG.  Jazztel almost doubled its share of the Spanish broadband
market from 2009 to 2012 as it focused mostly on the fixed-
telephone business through a reliable and affordable product
that has gained popularity among debt-strapped Spaniards. The
company predicts profit could more than triple in the next five
years as it continues to lure customers from rivals and add more
wireless subscribers.  Jazztel “is a fast-growing asset,” Andres Bolumburu, a
Madrid-based analyst at Banco de Sabadell SA, said in a
telephone interview. That makes it “a clear and attractive
takeover target.”  Premium Seen  While the stock has more than doubled in the past five
years, pushing Jazztel’s valuation relative to earnings above
the average among European telecommunications companies,
Bolumburu estimates the 1.5 billion euro ($1.9 billion) carrier
still could fetch a premium of more than 20 percent in a
takeover as soon as this year.  Beatriz Valverde, a spokeswoman for Jazztel, declined to
comment. Jazztel has its legal headquarters in  London  and its
main operating offices in  Madrid .  Jazztel has expanded in Spain over the years by offering
low-cost broadband Internet and phone service and eventually
wireless plans to steal customers from Telefonica SA, the
Spanish market leader. The company has posted eight straight
years of  revenue gains , and boosted earnings every year since
2010, when it posted its first annual profit.  During the past three years, even as Spain’s economic slump
pushed unemployment in the country to 26 percent, Jazztel’s
share of the broadband market nearly doubled to more than 11
percent, data compiled by telecom regulator CMT show. It had
343,000 wireless subscribers as of the end of 2012, more than
double the number a year earlier, the company said.  Bright Spot  Jazztel, which released its five-year  business plan  last
month, estimated that its share of the broadband market will
grow to as much as 16 percent by 2017, while mobile-phone
subscribers will top 2.3 million and profit will more than
triple to at least 180 million euros.  Analysts project Jazztel’s  sales  will increase more than 30
percent through 2015, more than four times the average among
European telecommunications companies with a market value larger
than $1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jazztel is “one of the few bright spots within a pretty
stagnant industry,” said  Boris Boehm , who helps manage about
1.4 billion euros at Aramea Asset Management AG in Hamburg.
While he sold Jazztel  shares  about a year ago, Boehm said he
considers the stock an attractive investment again based on the
prospects for consolidation among phone carriers.  Shrinking Margins  “As big telecommunications companies suffer from lower
revenues and shrinking profit margins, they will have to look
for growth somewhere else,” Boehm said. Jazztel’s broadband
expertise could help its larger rivals as they seek to offer
bundled voice, Internet and mobile-phone services.  Carriers are investing in fiber-optic networks across
Europe to tap rising demand for high-speed Internet services
amid declining sales from traditional voice and text-messaging
services. In October,  Telefonica (TEF)  and Jazztel signed an accord to
jointly deploy fiber-to-the-home networks for 3 million real
estate units.  At Telefonica, earnings have declined the past two years,
and the trend is the same at Vodafone, Spain’s No. 2 phone
carrier, and France Telecom, owner of the No. 3 provider Orange
Spain. At the same time, Telefonica’s share of the Spanish
broadband market has shrunk during the period, as has
Vodafone’s, according to data compiled by CMT.  ‘Big Fish’  Jazztel’s chairman and largest shareholder, Leopoldo Fernandez Pujals, predicted on March 14 that the Spanish
telecommunications market is headed for consolidation. The
shares rose as much as 2.2 percent that day, following his
comments.  “There are some piranhas like us out there,” Fernandez
Pujals, a Cuban-American entrepreneur known in Spain for
founding the pizza-delivery chain  Telepizza , told reporters in
Madrid. “Big fish will buy those smaller players that are
biting them all the time.”  Today, Jazztel slipped 0.2 percent to close at 5.93 euros
in Madrid trading.  Orange Spain is interested in making acquisitions in the
euro area’s fourth-largest economy as it aims to overtake
Vodafone, Chief Executive Officer Jean Marc Vignolles said in a
Feb. 26 interview.  Fernando Castro, a spokesman for Orange Spain, declined to
comment when asked about the status of any deal or whether the
company has approached Jazztel.  Not Cheap  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  said today it halted a sale of its Spanish
wireless unit, called Yoigo and valued by analysts at about 1
billion euros, after failing to attract offers it considered
high enough. Vodafone and France Telecom were among companies
that were interested in the business, people with knowledge of
the matter have said.  Peter Braendle, who manages 500 million Swiss francs ($528
million) at Swisscanto Asset Management in Zurich, including
Jazztel shares, said the company could appeal to both Orange
Spain and Vodafone as they seek to bolster their market share.  “The problem will be the price,” Braendle said in a phone
interview. “Jazztel isn’t cheap.”  Jazztel’s shares have more than  doubled  in the past five
years, compared with a 42 percent loss in Spain’s benchmark Ibex
35 index and a 20 percent drop in the 25-company Bloomberg
 Europe  Telecommunication Services Index. After the gains,
Jazztel’s  enterprise value  is now 9.5 times its earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, compared with
the industry’s median multiple of 5.8, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Jazztel is much more expensive, in part, because it is
outgrowing the industry,” Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-based
strategist at FGA/MG Valores, said in a phone interview. The
high price also “implies a potential transaction,” he said.  Dwindling Deals  Pepe Romero, a spokesman at Vodafone, declined to comment
on M&A when contacted by phone, adding that the company is
focused on offering broadband to customers and developing its
agreement with Orange to deploy fiber-optic networks in Spain.  While Jazztel might appeal to Vodafone or Orange Spain,
questions about how the company will achieve the goals laid out
in its business plan and uncertainty over the region’s economic
outlook could deter a sale, FGA/MG Valores’s Salvador said.  “The number of deals in Europe has dropped significantly
in the past few years, and it’s still hard to convince investors
why they should invest in a country such as Spain, especially if
you need to pay a premium,” he said.  Still, Jazztel offers acquirers not only its growth
prospects, but also tax credits from losses in past years that
could help a buyer boost earnings, Banco de Sabadell’s Bolumburu
said. He said that could justify a price of 1.8 billion euros in
a takeover, 21 percent more than the company’s market value as
of last week.  “A takeover story is definitely taking place behind the
scenes, even if we don’t notice it because the macroeconomic
crisis continues to get all the attention,” said Aramea Asset
Management’s Boehm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  