-- Nathaniel Rich’s Quant Hero Bets on Next NYC Superstorm
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2013-04-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/nathaniel-rich-s-quant-hero-bets-on-next-nyc-superstorm.html
As  Nathaniel Rich ’s second novel,
“ Odds Against Tomorrow ,” opens, it’s a few years from now.
U.S. companies are still rattled from an earthquake that
destroyed  Seattle  and forced many to pay record settlements to
victims.  Rich’s quant hero, Mitchell Zukor, is the right man at the
right time. A young math whiz fixated on catastrophe, he joins a
firm called FutureWorld to pitch corporate clients on a way to
limit their liability from any disaster. Then his Jeremiads are
borne out in a superstorm that floods  Manhattan .  Whether the odds or gods favor the appearance of a work of
fiction centered on a New York-area superstorm so soon after
Sandy remains to be seen. Fortunately, “Odds Against Tomorrow”
is an exceptional work, often humorous -- if darkly so -- whose
merits would stand even without the uncanny coincidence.  The new book follows Rich’s widely praised 2008 debut,
“ The Mayor’s Tongue ,” a modernist fable with two distinct
narratives and an inventive exuberance that could charm or
mystify.  His latest presents the story of Midwesterner Mitchell, who
moves to  New York  after college to work first in a financial
firm’s Department of Equities, Assets and Derivatives (note the
acronym).  Joining FutureWorld  After idly answering an online ad, Mitchell joins
FutureWorld. Its cutely named founder, Alec Charnoble,
recognizes his skill as a contemporary Cassandra attuned by
psyche and study to the history and scientific probability of
disaster. Working with a young go-getter Wharton grad named
Jane, Mitchell stokes companies’ post-Seattle fears with a
litany of biological, geological and meteorological events.  Money starts rolling in. Mitchell moves to a prime flat in
the financial district. He buys a piece of art called “Psycho
Canoe,” which is a garishly painted, full-size functioning
boat. It’s handy when Superstorm Tammy pummels  New York City  and
converts Manhattan’s avenues into canals.  Along with Jane, Mitchell paddles the length of Manhattan
seeking help or dry land. Their journey combines idyllic moments
and horrors. Their refuge in a trailer camp turns perilous when
Mitchell is lionized and then blamed as the flood’s prophet.  Rich gets in good comic jabs throughout the first third of
the novel at the world of finance, its ambitious Whartonites,
its runic argot -- such as “the generalized autoregressive
conditional heteroskedasticity model.”  Rising Waters  The levity ebbs as the waters rise, leaving the balance of
the novel starker -- a shift consistent with that from threat to
fact. The nerd-turned-quant mans up for a while in the canoe
(Tarzan save Jane!), yet remains ever an awkward fellow driven
by a knack for numbers and neurosis.  Mitchell’s encyclopedic knowledge and exploitation of
disaster allows Rich to question the sanity or motives of those
who live in fear of Armageddon, remain in denial of any threat
or profit from both without seeking change.  The book’s strong message and generally undeveloped
characters make it feel a bit like a morality play, with
Mitchell an oddly well-drawn Everyman amid a few familiar types.
It’s no less entertaining for all that but maybe a heart and
soul shy of a novel.  The other side to “Odds Against Tomorrow” concerns the
dim prospects for escape beforehand or refuge and recovery
afterward. The last line seems clear as a cloudless sky: “‘We
don’t have a lot of time.’”  “Odds Against Tomorrow” is published by Farrar, Straus &
Giroux (306 pages, $26). To order this book in  North America ,
click  here .  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Katya Kazakina  on art and  John
Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 