-- Nicotine Gum Labels Revised by FDA to Help Smokers Quit
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-04-01T14:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/nicotine-gum-labels-revised-by-fda-to-help-smokers-quit.html
Users of smoking-cessation products
such as  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Nicorette gum will be able to use
the products longer and in combination with other therapies
under new U.S. Food and Drug Administration labeling rules.  Glaxo and other makers of over-the-counter nicotine-
replacement products can seek new labels that would let people
continue smoking cigarettes when they start the treatments and
use more than one therapy at a time, the FDA said today in a
Federal Register  notice . The companies can also advise users to
talk to doctors if they want to continue use beyond 12 weeks.  Consumer and public health groups had sought the changes,
saying the current labels were too restrictive and may have
discouraged people from buying smoking-cessation products.
Tobacco use is the leading preventable  cause of death  and
disease in the U.S., leading to 443,000 deaths annually,
according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  “FDA hopes the recommended changes will allow more people
to use these products effectively for smoking cessation and that
tobacco dependence will decline in this country,” FDA
Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  said in a statement.  The FDA’s notice is a response to petitions filed in 2008
by the  New York  Commissioner of Health and in 2010 from the
 University of Maryland  School of Law and another from four
patient and consumer groups, including the Campaign for Tobacco-
Free Kids.  Quit Day  The FDA’s decision is based on accumulated evidence over
the 30 years since nicotine-replacement products were first
approved “to suggest that the current labeling provisions on
concomitant use and duration of use may no longer be necessary
to ensure the safe use of” the over-the-counter therapies,
according to the notice.  The FDA pointed to a “well-known and highly regarded
study” that followed smokers given free nicotine gum for as
long as five years. The adverse effects were described as minor
and transient, the agency said. Patches currently can be used
for eight or 10 weeks, the FDA said.  New labels would advise users to begin using a nicotine-
replacement product on their “quit day” rather than to “stop
smoking completely” when they begin use.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  