-- Novartis Cancer-Drug Patent Denied by India Supreme Court
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r   a n d   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k
-- 2013-04-01T20:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/novartis-cancer-drug-patent-denied-by-india-supreme-court.html
India’s Supreme Court denied
 Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s request for patent protection for its Gleevec
cancer treatment, allowing the nation’s generic-drug makers to
continue to sell copies of the drug at a lower price.  In a decision watched by non-profit groups seeking to
expand access to medicines and drugmakers concerned about
India’s position on intellectual property, the court today
upheld regulatory rulings dating to 2006 that the drug wasn’t
sufficiently innovative to merit a patent. Basel, Switzerland-
based Novartis argued that the  molecule imatinib , on which
Gleevec is based, required years of research and modification to
make it an effective, safe leukemia treatment.  “Repetitive patent is not permissible on the same drug,”
Justices Aftab Alam and  Ranjana Prakash Desai  said in the
court’s ruling in  New Delhi . “The drug is neither new nor
complies” with provisions of the  patent law , they ruled.  Novartis India Ltd. (HCBA)  shares fell while those of Indian
generic copy manufacturer  Natco Pharma Ltd. (NTCPH)  jumped. The decision
may add to concern among Western pharmaceutical companies that
India is allowing domestic generic-drug makers to profit from
products that deserve patent protection. Scientists credit
Gleevec with turning a deadly blood cancer into a chronic
disease, and the drug was Novartis’s best-selling product last
year with  sales  of $4.7 billion.  Intellectual Property  “The worst thing about this is that pharmaceutical
companies won’t want to partner with Indian pharma or generic
players, because they’ll be significantly concerned about
protection of their intellectual property,” said Navid Malik,
an analyst with  Cenkos Securities Plc (CNKS)  in  London . “The
government is basically trying to create an industry with no
investment as generics don’t require much R&D.”  The Indian Patent Office in 2006 denied a patent to
Novartis, a decision upheld by the  Indian Intellectual Property
Appellate Board . The board cited a provision of Indian law that
aims to prevent “evergreening,” in which companies make an
incremental change to a drug’s chemical makeup, without any real
medical benefit, to extend its patent life and prevent the
introduction of low-cost generic copies.  Novartis appealed to the nation’s highest court. Generic
versions of the drug are on the market in India.  “The  Supreme Court ’s decision prevents companies from
abusing the patent system to get unwarranted patents on existing
medicines,” Leena Menghaney, access campaign manager for
Doctors Without Borders, said in an e-mailed statement.  Generic Versions  Decisions such as today’s may unintentionally stifle
India’s drug industry, Ranjit Shahani, vice chairman and
managing director at Novartis India, said before the ruling.  “We’ll continue to build our business, but we will
certainly be cautious in investments in R&D and innovation in
India,” Shahani said in an interview. “And until the climate
for intellectual property and the ecosystem is fully in place, I
don’t think any investment in R&D will take place here.”  Brook Baker, a law professor at  Northeastern University  in
 Boston , said he doubts the pharmaceutical industry will pull
back much on its investments in India based on the decision. The
country will still grant 20 year patents on new, innovative
drugs and a growing middle class with chronic diseases will
provide many business opportunities, he said.  “I think there is plenty of incentives for them to come to
India,” Baker said in a telephone interview. “They always cry
doomsday and say no one will invest in India because it isn’t an
investor-friendly country. But companies will invest in India
because they can make money there.”  Shares Decline  Novartis India declined 1.8 percent to 587.95 rupees in
Mumbai, the most since March 4. Novartis’s American depositary
receipts fell less than 1 percent to $71.06 at the close in  New
York . Natco Pharma climbed 5.4 percent to 452 rupees in  India ,
its biggest gain since March 5.  “This ruling is a setback for patients that will hinder
medical progress for diseases without effective treatment
options,” Shahani said in a statement after the decision.
“Novartis has never been granted an original patent for Gleevec
in India. We strongly believe that original innovation should be
recognized in patents to encourage investment in medical
innovation especially for unmet medical needs.”  Larger Debate  Novartis and aid groups agree that the drug itself is of
secondary importance in the larger debate over intellectual
property.  Sales of Gleevec in India are negligible, because more than
90 percent of volume in the country is donated through Novartis
programs, available to the poor, Paul Herrling, who heads
Novartis’s Institute for Tropical Diseases in  Singapore , said in
an interview before the decision.  Besides denying a patent to Gleevec, India has angered
pharmaceutical companies by allowing generic-drug makers to
produce copies of patent-protected medicines to ensure they’re
available in the country at affordable prices. Drug companies
say they have programs in place to make expensive medicines
available to the poor.  The patent appeals board last month upheld a ruling that
allows Natco Pharma to make a low-priced copy of  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s
Nexavar cancer treatment.  In decisions like the Gleevec ruling, India is weighing the
cost of treating patients today against hampering home-grown
innovation at a later point,  Darius Lakdawalla , a health
economist at the University of  Southern California , said in an
interview.  “Today, India is allowing a robust generics industry and
not protecting patents and the cost for that is low,”
Lakdawalla said. “But what is going to happen five to 10 years
in the future?”  For Related News and Information:
Cancer Drugs for Indian Poor Spark Pfizer Anger at Lost Patents  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net ;
Pratap Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  