-- Nuance Jumps After Investor Carl Icahn Reports 9.3% Holding
-- B y   J a m e s   C a l l a n   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-04-02T13:42:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/nuance-jumps-after-carl-icahn-reports-9-3-passive-stake.html
Nuance Communications Inc. (NUAN) , a maker
of speech-recognition software, rose the most in almost eight
months after billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  disclosed a 9.3
percent passive stake in the company.  The shares  advanced  7.9 percent to $21.77 at 9:36 a.m. New
York time after jumping as much as 8.5 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since Aug. 8. Nuance, based in Burlington,
Massachusetts, disclosed the stake in a regulatory filing
yesterday.  Icahn uses shareholdings to seek change in companies he
deems undervalued or ill-managed. He has recently also focused
on disrupting other parties’ investments, including Silver Lake
Management LLC’s plan to take  Dell Inc. (DELL)  private. Nuance plunged
the most in more than six years in February after cutting full-
year sales and profit forecasts, citing shifting demand for
software. Icahn may seek to break up the company, said Tom Roderick, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in  Chicago .  “Any time you get an activist shareholder involved, the
perception is, there’s something within the structure of the
company they’d like to change,” Roderick said in an interview.
“More value could be unlocked by selling pieces of the
company.”  Rebecca Paquette, a spokeswoman for Nuance, declined to
comment. A message left outside regular business hours for a
representative of Icahn wasn’t immediately returned.  Nuance said in February that transcription volume is
falling as health-industry customers shift to electronic medical
records and its new Dragon Medical speech-to-text software.  Herbalife, Dell  A contraction in the market for personal computers,
exacerbated as corporate customers awaited Microsoft Corp.’s new
Windows 8 software, also contributed to the forecast reduction.
Economic weakness crimped in Europe as well.  Icahn, 77, has said Silver Lake’s plan undervalues Dell. He
also took a stake in  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  after investor  William Ackman  said he made a $1 billion bet the stock would fall.  Icahn, with a net worth of $19 billion, ranks 36th on the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Callan in New York at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net 
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  