-- Moody’s Review of Bailouts May Dent Banks, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-04-01T17:48:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/moody-s-review-of-bailouts-may-dent-bank-grades-jpmorgan-says.html
A reduction in Moody’s Investors
Service’s estimate of how much taxpayer support financial firms
will receive in a crisis may result in credit ratings cuts for
banks from  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Moody’s, which placed “negative outlooks” on the holding
company ratings of eight systemically important U.S. lenders in
June, said last week that it expects to update its “bank
holding company support assumptions” by year-end. The firms’
grades are as many as two levels higher because of the potential
of a public backstop, according to Moody’s.  “Our base case assumption is that there will be a one
notch reduction across the board,” JPMorgan analysts led by
Kabir Caprihan said today in a report. “We also see the
potential for future upgrades in the standalone credit ratings
for Bank of America and Citigroup,” the analysts said.  The banks included in the Moody’s review are Bank of  New
York  Mellon Corp., State Street Corp., Wells Fargo, JPMorgan,
Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Inc. and Bank of
America Corp.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. has made progress
toward reducing the likelihood of future government support as
the agency identifies obstacles to implement its so-called
orderly liquidation authority, which gives the FDIC power to
wind down, split up or sell off companies considered a potential
systemic risk to U.S. financial stability, Moody’s said in a
March 27 report.  Banks, Industrials  “Our base case assumes that Moody’s will remove some of
the support from all or some of the holding companies under
review, but will not completely remove the ratings uplift from
support across the board,” the JPMorgan analysts said.  Investors in the $5.2 trillion U.S. corporate bond market
are wagering banks are safer relative to industrial companies
even after Moody’s cut the ratings of 15 of the world’s largest
banks in June, citing fragile confidence and tighter regulations
that pinched revenue.  Lenders are poised to overtake industrial companies as the
safest borrowers for the first time since the start of the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression, with investors
demanding an extra 156 basis points in yield over benchmarks to
buy bonds of banks, compared with 146 basis points for companies
from Alcoa Inc. to Ford Motor Co., Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show.  At 10 basis points, the gap has shrunk from a peak of 365
in March 2009 and may invert as soon as this year based on the
current pace of tightening.  Bank bonds were seen as safer than industrial debt by
investors until September 2007, the month after BNP Paribas SA
marked the start of the credit seizure by halting withdrawals
from investment funds that owned subprime mortgage securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  