-- TOP Oil Market News: WTI Falls; Exxon Plans Pegasus Excavation
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-04-01T07:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/top-oil-market-news-wti-falls-exxon-plans-pegasus-excavation.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Slides From Six-Week High; Exxon Shuts Gulf Coast Pipeline  West Texas Intermediate crude slid from the highest close
in six weeks, snapping its longest rally this year. Exxon Mobil
Corp. shut a pipeline that carries oil to the U.S. Gulf Coast.  TOP OIL MARKET NEWS  Exxon to Excavate Pegasus Crude Pipeline to Find Cause of Leak  Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Pegasus crude oil pipeline, which was
shut on March 29 after a leak was detected in  Arkansas , will
need to be excavated as the company looks to determine what
caused the breach, a spokeswoman said.  Hedge Funds  Backing $100 Crude Lift Bullish Bets: Energy Markets  Hedge funds raised bullish crude bets by the most this year
as refineries increased demand and the  U.S. economy  expanded.  OPEC Oil Output Drops to a 16-Month Low in Survey on Nigeria (3)  OPEC crude production slipped to a 16-month low in March as
output in Nigeria dropped to the least in more than three years,
a Bloomberg survey showed.  Schlumberger Says It Reached New Payment Agreement with PDVSA  Schlumberger reached a new payment agreement with
Venezuela’s PDVSA, and will recognize all new revenue associated
with first-quarter operations, the company said in a statement.  Brent-WTI Crude Spread Widens After Exxon Shuts Pipe to Texas  West Texas Intermediate oil’s discount to London’s Brent
widened from the narrowest in almost  nine months after  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  shut a pipeline carrying  crude from  Illinois  to the
U.S. Gulf Coast.  Taiwan’s CPC Offers 300,000 Barrels of Jet Fuel for May Loading  The A-1  jet fuel  cargo will be loaded during any 5-day
range in May from Kaohsiung, according to a statement on
company’s website.  Petronas Sets March Tapis Oil Official Price at $114.17 a Barrel  Co. says in e-mail notice today. Cuts March price 6.7% from
Feb. level of $122.38/bbl,  South Korea’s Crude Imports Decline 2% in March to Two-Year Low  South Korea, Asia’s fourth-biggest economy, reduced its
overseas crude purchases in March by 2 percent from a year
earlier to the least since February 2011.  Exelon Falls From Green Favor as Chief Fights Wind-Power Subsidy  Exelon Corp. left the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in 2009 over
the group’s opposition to a climate- change bill, declaring the
“carbon-based free lunch” was over.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Enterprise Products to Shut Mont Belvieu Unit for Maintenance  Co. to carry out scheduled maintenance at West Texas
fractionator No. 1 located at its Mont Belvieu complex,
according to a filing with state regulators.  Northern Tier Energy Has Emissions at St. Paul Plant: NRC Filing  Co. releases unknown amount of sulfur dioxide from St. Paul
Park,  Minnesota ,  oil refinery  after upset at distillate
desulfurizer unit, according to filing with U.S. National
Response Center.  Run Rate Drops to Seven-Month Low at China’s Teapot Refineries  China’s smaller oil refineries in Shandong province cut
their average utilization rate to 28.5% of capacity on March 28,
industry website Oilchem.net says.  BP Carson Refinery Plans to Flare Gases April 1-6  Carson Refinery in Southern California plans to flare gas
trom April 1 to April 6, BP Plc said in notice to the  South
Coast Air Quality Management District .  Shell Says 16-In. Crude Oil Line in Texas Shut on Possible Leak  Shell shut 16-inch crude oil pipeline in West Columbia,
Texas, on March 29 at about 10am after its pipeline control
center in Houston identified a possible release, Kimberly
Windon, a spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-mail.  Holly El Dorado Refinery Has Flaring During Maintenance: NRC  HollyFrontier Corp.’s refinery in El Dorado, Kansas
released hydrogen sulfide to the flare due to amine acide gas
while being shut for maintenance late March 29, according to a
filing with the NRC.  Flint Hills Resources Has Emissions at  Corpus Christi : NRC  Flint Hills plant at Corpus Christi, Texas, released 10
pounds of benzene from an exchanger that was down for an hour on
March 29, according to a filing with the NRC.  Exxon Mobil Refinery Leaks Happened During Maintenance: NRC  Refinery in Beaumont, Texas, leaked unknown quantities of
toluene, xylene, benzene, according to filing with U.S. National
Response Center.  Philadelphia Energy Solutions Refinery Starting Units After Work  Philadelphia Energy Solutions is restarting units in the
Girard Point section of its Philadelphia refinery after
maintenance that began in January.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Are Unchanged  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline, jet fuel or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the  Middle East  to
 Japan  was unchanged at 11.65 U.S. cents yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Israel Starts Tamar Gas Output in Energy-Independence Step (1)  Israel started gas production at the Tamar offshore field
in an effort to put the country on the road to energy
independence and save a projected 1 billion shekels ($274
million) a month, according to the government.  Chesapeake Names COO Dixon Interim Replacement for McClendon  Chesapeake Energy Corp. picked Chief Operating Officer
Steven C. Dixon to be acting chief executive as co-founder
Aubrey K. McClendon steps down from the natural gas explorer he
led for almost a quarter century.  Bahrain Seeks More Gas as It Plans First LNG Unit, Khalifa Says  Bahrain plans to boost output of natural gas by tapping
deep reserves and build a terminal to import liquefied gas, the
head of its state-owned energy investment holding company said.  Fracking Debut Nears in Boost to Reliance, ONGC: Corporate  India   India will allow explorers including Oil & Natural Gas
Corp. and Reliance Industries Ltd. to produce shale oil and gas
for the first time as Asia’s second-biggest energy consumer
seeks to cut reliance on imports.  Volcano Power Tapped by Marubeni as Nuclear Alternative: Energy  Marubeni Corp., the biggest investor in electricity
generation among Japan’s trading houses, is working on how to
revive the geothermal industry and tap heat that powers volcanos
as an alternative to nuclear reactors.  Obama’s Energy Pick Moniz Discloses Extent of Ties to Industry  Ernest Moniz, President  Barack Obama ’s nominee for energy
secretary, performed consulting work last year for General
Electric Co., BP Plc, and Riverstone Equity Partners LP,
according to his financial disclosure forms.  U.K. Plans to Raise GBP3b in Sale of Urenco Stake in 2013: FT  The U.K. aims to raise as much as GBP3b by the end of the
year through the sale of its 33% stake in Urenco, the uranium
enrichment company, the Financial Times said, without saying
where it got the information. The FT also reported:  OTHER MARKETS  Asian Stocks Drop on Japan Data as Commodities Decline With Won  Asian shares dropped and commodities declined for a second
day after a survey of sentiment among the Japan’s largest
manufacturers missed estimates.  South Korea ’s won and the euro
weakened while Treasuries fell.  Euro Declines After Monthly Drop on Weakening Economic Recovery  The euro weakened following a decline last month as
economic data signal the 17-nation region is struggling to
recover, damping demand for the currency.  Funds See Best in Decade as World Alignment Unravels: Currencies  Funds that specialize in currencies are enjoying their best
start to a year in at least a decade as economies show signs of
decoupling.  Asian Stocks Drop After Japan’s Tankan, China PMI Miss Estimates  Asian stocks fell, led by Japanese shares, after a survey
of sentiment among the country’s largest manufacturers missed
estimates and an official gauge of China’s factory output
expanded at a slower-than-expected pace.  Rallying Stocks Generate Best Return of Quarter, Beating Bonds  Global stocks beat all other investments for a second
quarter, the first back-to-back outperformance since 2009, as
accelerating economic growth pushed equities past commodities,
bonds and the dollar.  Corn Heads for Bear Market After U.S. Stockpiles Beat Estimates  Corn headed for a  bear market , dropping for a second day
after the U.S. government reported stockpiles were larger than
estimated and acreage may climb to the highest since 1936. Wheat
slumped to the cheapest since June.  Bullish Bets Rebound at Fastest Pace in Four Years: Commodities  Investors are boosting wagers on higher commodity prices at
the fastest pace in almost four years, rebounding from the least
bullish position since 2009, on signs that the U.S. is
accelerating and Europe’s debt crisis is easing.  Kim Calls Atomic Weapons Top Priority as Korea Tensions Rise (1)  Kim Jong Un called nuclear weapons development one of North
Korea’s top priorities as his country ratcheted up tensions by
declaring a state of war with South Korea and reiterating
threats to attack the U.S.  Senators See Hope For Immigration Deal With Some Details Undone  Senators negotiating a bipartisan accord on U.S.
immigration policy expressed optimism yesterday that a plan will
be ready for Senate consideration soon, while differences remain
with Republicans leading the House.  SPORTS  D.A. Points Wins Houston Open by One for Second PGA Tour Title  D.A. Points won the Houston Open by one stroke for his
second career U.S. PGA Tour title, a victory that earns him a
trip to golf’s  Masters Tournament .  Atletico Madrid Misses Chance to Overtake Real With Home Draw  Atletico Madrid  missed the chance to take second spot from
Real Madrid in soccer’s Spanish league with a 1-1 home draw
against Valencia.  Andy Murray Beats David Ferrer in Sony Open Final in Miami  Andy Murray  of Britain recovered to beat  David Ferrer  in
three sets in tennis’s Sony Open final in Miami today.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  