-- Burkle’s Yucaipa Gets Delano Hotel Stake in Morgans Swap
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-04-01T21:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/morgans-hotel-gives-burkle-stake-in-delano-south-beach.html
Morgans Hotel Group Co. (MHGC) , the
boutique-hotel operator under pressure from its largest
shareholder, said Yucaipa Cos. will swap interests in the
company’s convertible notes and preferred stock for its
ownership in the Delano South Beach and the Light Group.  Morgans will continue to manage Delano South Beach in Miami
Beach,  Florida , as part of a long-term agreement, the company
said today in a statement. Morgans also said it will start a
$100 million rights offering available to shareholders, which
Yucaipa, billionaire Ron Burkle’s investment firm, will backstop
with no fees if the rights are not exercised in full.  Morgans, which put the Delano South Beach on the market
last year, has been selling real estate and using the proceeds
to expand its management operations. The deal with Yucaipa
follows a 15-month strategic review by a special committee of
the board, the New York-based company said.  “We have transformed the company from an owner/operator of
hotels into a global brand and management company,”  Chief
Executive Officer Michael Gross said on a conference call with
analysts. “Today’s announcement marks the significant step
forward in realizing that strategy, allowing us to accelerate
the growth of our business, significantly reduce our risk
profile and enhance our ability to create long-term value for
all of our shareholders.”  Director Lawsuit  Jason Taubman Kalisman, a director on Morgans’s board and a
founding member of its largest shareholder, OTK Associates,
today sued the company, seeking to block the planned
“recapitalization” until the case is heard before a Delaware
judge. Yucaipa was also named in the lawsuit, which was sealed
except for a cover sheet with a brief description of the claim.  OTK said last month it was seeking to overhaul the board,
aiming to return the company to profitability or have it pursue
strategic alternatives. Morgans has lost money in every quarter
since 2007, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Kalisman declined to comment. Dan Gagnier, a spokesman for
OTK at Sard Verbinnen & Co., couldn’t be reached for comment on
the lawsuit.  Morgans  gained  4 percent today to $6.16, the highest
closing price since Dec. 19.  The company has eight signed management deals for hotels
that will start over the next three years, which, combined with
last September’s opening of Delano Marrakech, will almost double
the number of rooms under management, Gross said. The company is
in advanced discussions for deals in Los Angeles, Amsterdam,
Berlin, Paris, Rio de Janeiro and several cities in  India , he
said.  Debt Reduction  The transactions announced today will reduce Morgans’ debt
and preferred stock obligations by $230 million, including the
elimination of $113 million of debt maturing in 2014, the
company said. After retiring the credit facility secured by
Delano South Beach, which has $35 million of outstanding
obligations, the company said it will have $65 million of cash
left from the rights offering.  Burkle is a member of Morgans’s  board . Whether Yucaipa
continues to have representation on the board will depend on the
outcome of the rights offering, Gross said during the call with
analysts.  The transaction was negotiated through a special committee
of independent directors since Yucaipa is a creditor with board
representation, Gross said. The company also retained its own
independent financial and legal advisers “to ensure we receive
fair value for our assets,” he said.  Morgans acquired a 90 percent interest in the Light Group,
an operator of restaurants and nightclub bars, in 2011. The
transaction with Los Angeles-based Yucaipa is expected to be
completed in the second quarter, Morgans said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  