-- Morgans Hotel Group Director Sues Over Recapitalization
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-04-01T23:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/morgans-hotel-group-director-sues-over-recapitalization.html
Morgans Hotel Group Co. was sued by
a company director seeking to block a recapitalization tied to
Yucaipa Cos.’ acquisition of one of Morgan’s properties.  Jason Kalisman, a Morgans director and a founding member of
its largest shareholder, OTK Associates, sued the company today
seeking to block the recapitalization until the case is heard
before a Delaware judge. Yucaipa was also named in the lawsuit,
which was sealed except for a cover sheet with a brief
description of the claim filed in Delaware Chancery Court.  Kalisman’s suit also seeks to “invalidate decisions to
approve” the recapitalization transaction and to “set a new
annual meeting date,” according to the cover sheet.  Officials of New York-based Morgans said in a statement
today they had agreed to swap the ownership of its  Delano South
Beach Hotel  in Miami and a restaurant company for Yucaipa’s
investments in Morgans’s convertible notes and preferred stock.  The hotel company’s executives also said they will make a
$100 million rights offering available to shareholders, which
Yucaipa, billionaire  Ron Burkle ’s investment firm, will backstop
with no fees if the rights are not exercised in full.  Frank Quintero, a Yucaipa spokesman, didn’t immediately
return calls and e-mails seeking comment on the court filing.
Neil Maitland, an outside spokesman for Morgans at  New York- 
based Abernathy MacGregor Group, declined to comment.  Board Fight  OTK, which said in a March 18  statement  it owns about
14 percent of Morgans’s shares, is seeking to overhaul the board
to return the company to profitability. The company has lost
money in every quarter since 2007, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  OTK has nominated seven board candidates to be considered
by investors at the company’s May 15 annual meeting, according
to the release. OTK officials contend the current board has
engaged in “a number of self-serving transactions and
questionable employment decisions,” according to the March 18
statement.  In his suit, Kalisman wants a judge to bar a bid by
Morgans’s board to push the annual meeting back to July 10 and
change the record date for determining which stockholders can
vote from March 22 to May 29, according to court filings.  Kalisman declined to comment. Dan Gagnier, a spokesman for
OTK at Sard Verbinnen & Co., couldn’t be reached for comment on
the lawsuit.  The case is Kalisman v. Friedman, CA 8447, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ; Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at
   jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  