-- How Traders’ Pranks Were Once Routine on U.S. Exchanges
-- B y   K r i s t i n   A g u i l e r a
-- 2013-04-01T20:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/how-traders-pranks-were-once-routine-on-u-s-exchanges.html
Throughout the 19th and 20th
centuries floor traders at U.S. stock exchanges engaged in
elaborate and often bizarre pranks. The most common were the
cutting off the ties of newcomers, and the classic -- if long
forgotten -- April Fool’s ritual of attaching a paper cup to a
trader’s jacket and surreptitiously filling it with water.  Perhaps the biggest spur to trading-floor mischief was
boredom on low volume days. An 1898 New York Times article
titled “Stock Market Erratic” noted that “the market slump
began at 1 p.m., and the market, which from the opening had been
free from violent demonstrations of excitement, became almost
dull and listless, and the gallery spectators were treated to an
exhibition of floor pranks for an hour.”  A week later, the paper reported that “nearly the whole
day was given over to pranks -- from throwing paper to simulated
ring encounters.”  These antics weren’t limited to the stock exchanges. An
1884 New York Times article reported that “since dullness
overtook the coffee trade several weeks ago the Coffee Exchange
has been gradually transformed into a scene of hilarity.”  ‘Ordinary Pranks’  In addition to the “ordinary pranks” involving the
clothing of exchange members and officials (no hat or suit was
safe), the weeks with little trading activity resulted in a
surge of assaults with wads of wet paper, which affixed
themselves to the members’ faces and broke several window panes.
The culprits were fined up to $5 in addition to the cost of
replacing the broken glass.  Newcomers were the frequent targets of pranks. According to
folklorist  Nancy Groce , author of “Lox, Stocks and Backstage
Broadway: Iconic Trades of New York City,” cutting ties and
ripping shirt sleeves were common rites of initiation for new
traders at the New York Stock Exchange.  Another popular prank for novices and veterans alike
involved talcum powder. “All of a sudden everyone would start
screaming ‘It’s snowing in New York!’” according to an NYSE
trader quoted in Groce’s book, “and I’d look down and they had
put baby powder all over my shoes.”  Likewise, a 1964 New York Times article reported that the
“oldest of gags” at the NYSE consisted of sending a new member
into a crowd with an order to buy an imaginary stock. “The
other brokers in the crowd, who are in on the joke, keep bidding
up the price while elbowing the neophyte member out of strategic
position. The price soars and he sweats. Then finally he gets
the point and everybody laughs.”  Groce’s book describes an elaborate prank involving a NYSE
trader whose colleagues thought he was becoming pompous. One
summer, the trader took to wearing a white straw bowler hat to
work. His colleagues, eager to make a point about his inflated
ego, purchased several of the same hats in decreasing quarter-
sizes. Each week, the hat would be replaced with a smaller one.
As it rode higher and higher on his head, the trader began to
question the fit, only to be assured by his colleagues that his
head was swelling.  Pranks became considerably less funny in the mid-to-late
20th century, however, with the introduction of substantial
fines for perpetrators.  A 1969 New York Times article titled “Exchange’s Talcum
Throwers Are Advised to Take a Powder” reported that “after
decades as one of the New York Stock Exchange’s most closely
observed rituals, the dousing of prospective bridegrooms with
talcum powder on the exchange’s trading floor has been banned.”  The article stated that water-pistol fights, water balloons
and other pranks would also be forbidden, and that pranksters
would be subject to fines up to $1,000.  Disrupted Trading  According to an exchange official, the pranks had become
more disruptive as trading-floor personnel expanded along with
increased trading volumes on the exchange floor. The enforcement
action was prompted by “several recent incidents of
pranksterism that had disrupted some trading and caused damage
to some of the electronic communications devices on the trading
floor.”  In 1992, the New York Times reported that the  Pacific Stock
Exchange  in Los Angeles had released a memo ordering its members
to “cease and desist with antics that include rubber band
snapping and sniping with spitballs.” First-time offenders
would be subject to $1,000 fines, while persistent offenders
could be fined up to $5,000.  By that time, the NYSE and the American Stock Exchange in
New York also had prank-related regulations in place. At the
NYSE, $250 fines were imposed for first-time offenses, with $500
fines for repeat infractions. The Amex’s rule prohibited the
“throwing of objects on the trading floor,” with penalties of
up to $500.  Exchange-floor pranks had been waning even before fines
were introduced. As electronic trading gained and the number of
people working on the trading floors decreased, pranks and
practical jokes took their place in financial history alongside
ticker tape and teletypes. Today, you are almost as likely to
see a live bull at an exchange as to witness a prank -- except,
perhaps, on April Fools’ Day.  (Kristin Aguilera is the deputy director of the Museum of
American Finance and the editor of Financial History magazine.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this post:
Kristin Aguilera at  kaguilera@moaf.org   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  