-- Panasonic Avionics Under U.S. Bribery Probe, WSJ Reports
-- B y   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-04-01T14:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/panasonic-s-avionics-unit-under-u-s-bribery-probe-wsj-reports.html
A  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  unit that makes
inflight entertainment and communications systems for airlines
is under a bribery investigation by U.S. regulators, the Wall
Street Journal reported.  The legal department of Panasonic Avionics, based in  Lake
Forest ,  California , told executives and employees to preserve
documents that may be relevant to the government investigation,
the newspaper said today, citing company documents. Chieko
Gyobu, a spokeswoman for the  Osaka , Japan-based  parent company ,
declined to comment when reached by phone today.  Employees were asked to preserve documents related to gifts
or benefits offered to airline employees or government
officials, as well as any that reported rumors, concerns or
complaints of alleged bribery or corruption, the report said,
citing a Jan. 20 company notice. Panasonic Avionics received a
subpoena from government investigators last month, the Journal
said, citing a March 25 company notice.  Both notices reference the 1977 Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act, which bars U.S. companies and those listed on U.S. stock
exchanges from paying bribes to foreign government officials,
the report said. Spokespeople for the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and the  Justice Department , which enforce
the act, declined to comment.  The January notice said Panasonic intends to cooperate with
the investigation and that the existence of any inquiry doesn’t
mean the company broke the law, the newspaper said.  Panasonic  fell  3.4 percent to 632 yen in Tokyo trading,
compared with a 2.1 percent drop in the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average.  Revival Plan  The company’s avionics unit is the “world leader” in
inflight entertainment and communications, with the most systems
installed and serving the most airlines, according to its
website. Panasonic began expanding into avionics in 1979 and was
among the first to market video equipment to airlines, it says.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the world’s largest
carrier and a customer of Panasonic Avionics’ satellite wireless
Internet technology, declined to comment on whether it was
involved in the probe, Rahsaan Johnson, a spokesman for the
Chicago-based carrier, said in an e-mail.  Other customers including Latam Airlines Group SA, Emirates
and  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  didn’t immediately return calls or
e-mails seeking comments.  Record Loss  Panasonic is struggling to recover from a record loss in
the year ended March 2012. The company said last week it plans
to revive profit at its TV-making unit and boost sales of
housing products to meet a target for operating income of 350
billion yen ($3.7 billion) in three years.  The company is targeting growth in business-to-business
segments, which include the avionics unit and navigation systems
and batteries for cars. Its revival measures also include
selling control of its logistics unit and the possible sale of a
stake in its health-care division.  Panasonic has forecast a net loss of 765 billion yen for
the fiscal year ended March 31, following a 772 billion-yen loss
the previous 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  