-- Petrobras Avoiding Bond Market as Selloff Deepens: Brazil Credit
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-01T12:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/petrobras-avoiding-bond-market-as-selloff-deepens-brazil-credit.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , which sold a
combined $13 billion of bonds in the first quarters of 2011 and
2012, is holding off on issuing new debt as borrowing costs rise
to the highest in two years versus investment-grade peers.  Declining earnings  at the state-controlled company spurred
by government-imposed limits on fuel-price increases and waning
offshore oil output have helped push yields on its $5.25 billion
of bonds due 2021 up 0.55 percentage point this year to 4.16
percent. The jump is triple the increase for emerging-market
credits rated BBB- or better, which yield an average 4.18
percent, according to data from JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The bond rout is prompting the oil producer to delay plans
to raise about $12 billion in debt this year, according to
Vinicius Pasquarelli, an emerging-market debt trader at Standard
Credit Group LLC. Petrobras, which is developing the biggest
crude discoveries this century beneath the Atlantic Ocean, faces
rising borrowing costs as  leverage climbs  to the highest in at
least a decade and concern mounts that government interference
is damping profits.  “The international market is starting to see a sovereign
risk in the company’s management, so the company isn’t
comfortable in issuing as much and as often,” Pasquarelli said
in a telephone interview from New York. “Petrobras is going
through a rough time in strategic planning.”  Issuance Plunge  Petrobras’s press office in Rio de Janeiro declined to
comment on plans for foreign bond sales in an e-mailed response
to questions.  The oil producer joined Brazilian issuers from  Vale SA (VALE5)  to
Odebrecht SA in choosing to refrain from selling bonds abroad
over the past three months. Offerings were tempered in part as
unprecedented fundraising in 2012 damped financing needs.  Brazilian issuance overseas plunged 72 percent from a year
earlier to $6.9 billion in the first quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Brazilian companies issued a record $47.4
billion of bonds last year, led by Petrobras’s $10.3 billion of
notes denominated in dollars, euros and pounds.  “You had a whole bunch of high-grade, non-financial
companies that haven’t come to market this year because they got
their issuance out of the way,”  Aziz Sunderji , an emerging-
market strategist at Barclays Plc, said in a telephone interview
from New York. “They can afford to be opportunistic and tap the
market when the conditions are just right.”  Fuel Imports  Rising fuel-import costs led Petrobras’s  adjusted earnings 
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to fall 14
percent last year to 53.2 billion reais ($26.3 billion). The
company pays more for gasoline and diesel bought abroad than it
charges distributors because  Brazil ’s government, which controls
the company’s board, fixes prices to limit inflation.  Annual production slid 1 percent to 2.6 million barrels a
day of oil and natural gas. Net debt to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization climbed to 2.77
times in the fourth quarter, the highest in data compiled by
Bloomberg going back to 2002, from 1.57 times a year earlier.  Petrobras plans to borrow $61.3 billion to finance $237
billion of investments and service its debt in the five years
through 2017, the company said in its most recent business plan.
The producer is increasing production at fields trapped under a
layer of salt miles below the Atlantic seabed in an effort to
more than double output by 2020.  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 187 basis points at
8:34 a.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years rose one basis point to 139 basis points. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower fails
to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real was little changed at 2.0211 per dollar. Yields on
interest-rate futures contracts due in January 2014 climbed two
basis points to 7.79 percent.  Petrobras’s decision not to sell bonds in the first quarter
reflects adequate cash on hand as well as the company’s
confidence that it will always have access to international
capital markets should the need arise, according to Carlos Legaspy, who manages about $350 million of emerging-market debt
as president of Insight Securities Inc.  ‘No Hurry’  “They covered all their funding needs, trust that the
market will be there when they need it, and they’re in no
hurry,” Legaspy said in a telephone interview from San Diego.  Announcing a plan to increase capital expenditures by 16
percent this year even as profit tumbles, Petrobras Chief
Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Foster reminded investors
Feb. 5 of the company’s role in driving the economy and creating
jobs.  “The company’s cash flow has to match up with its
strategic planning, which is going through a rough time due to
its understanding with the government,” Pasquarelli said. “The
environment is difficult now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  