-- Philippine Peso Touches One-Week High, Bonds Gain on Debt Rating
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-04-01T02:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/philippine-peso-touches-one-week-high-bonds-gain-on-debt-rating.html
The Philippine peso touched a one-
week high and  government bonds  rose on speculation the nation’s
first investment-grade rating will spur capital inflows.  Fitch Ratings  upgraded the  Philippines  to BBB- on March 27,
the last day of trading before markets closed for the Easter
break. Currency gains were limited after central bank Governor
Amando Tetangco said March 28 policy makers will probably unveil
this quarter new measures giving local investors easier access
to foreign currencies to help offset increased global demand for
the nation’s assets. Overseas funds may also be banned from
using the bank’s reverse repurchase facility, he said.  The peso traded at 40.805 per dollar as of 10:22 a.m. in
 Manila , from a previous close of 40.823, according to prices
from Tullett Prebon Plc. It reached 40.73, the strongest level
since March 22. The currency strengthened 0.6 percent in the
first three months of 2013 and the Philippine Stock Exchange
Composite Index jumped 18 percent as overseas investors bought
$1 billion more Philippine shares than they sold.  “We expect inflows into debt and equities to continue over
time from funds with mandates to invest in investment-grade
markets,” said Patrick Ella, an economist in Manila at Security
Bank Corp. “The central bank has been successful in curbing the
peso rally by limiting foreign participation.”  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas has capped lenders’ currency
forward positions, banned overseas funds from special deposit
accounts and trimmed the  interest rate  on those accounts twice
this year, among measures to temper the currency rally.  One-month implied volatility for the peso, a measure of
expected exchange-rate moves used to price options, rose three
basis points or 0.03 percentage point, today to 3.80 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The yield on the government’s 6.125 percent bonds due
October 2037 fell 12 basis points to 3.74 percent, according to
prices from Tradition Financial Services. The yield tumbled 109
basis points in March, the most since the notes were sold in
October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  