-- Political Insiders Turn Angel Investors in Lobbying Twist
-- B y   M e g a n   H u g h e s
-- 2013-04-01T14:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/political-insiders-turn-angel-investors-in-lobbying-twist.html
Tony Fratto  married young and says
he had no experience with digital dating. Over a candle-lit
steak dinner, the former spokesman for President  George W. Bush 
got an education.  The creators of Hinge, an application that allows Facebook
users to peruse, rate, and be introduced to others in their
extended network whom they find attractive, stood before Fratto
and his associates March 21 seeking money.  In a twist on the revolving door of former political aides
being paid to use their influence, Fratto and about a dozen
partners started a bipartisan angel network that invests in
early-stage Washington companies and uses its connections to
help make the bets pay off.  “Each of those guys brings a Rolodex with them,” said Dan
Berger, chief executive of  Social Tables , which provides seating
software for event planners. “That’s the value. When they go to
their cocktail parties and receptions, it helps.  This is a town
that talks.”  In a region that spawned America Online, yet has venture
capital and angel activity a fraction of Silicon Valley’s,
Fratto said his group sees need, opportunity and even fun.  “They’re not mixing in the same world that we are in media
and politics and government,” he said. “So we can help them
get into those circles.”  “We want to support the firms that are here because some
of them are undervalued, you know, and we’d like to see them
stay here,” Fratto said. “But we want to make money. So we put
money into really smart firms and see which ones are worth the
bet.”  Side Projects  The group, called K Street Capital, has invested $150,000
in five startups, including Social Tables. It’s “one of those
companies you would have thought, ’why didn’t I think of that’
because it’s so obvious,”  said Penny Lee, a former aide to
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid .  The idea for K Street Capital stemmed from a dinner at P.J.
Clarke’s, a Washington restaurant with a members-only basement
bar catering to the political elite. Evan Burfield, founder of
an incubator called 1776, and entrepreneur Blake Hall were
giving media executive Peter Cherukuri an education on startups.  Cherukuri, recalling the conversation in an interview, said
some friends were looking for investments in their lives after
politics and could be a resource for entrepreneurs with few
connections.  “I said, wait a second, I can bring these people
together,” he said. “There’s a lot of intellectual capacity
that I thought was underutilized. They were talking about doing
things like investing in restaurants and other side projects.”  Political Passes  In addition to Fratto, now a partner at consulting firm
Hamilton Strategies; Cherukuri, a senior vice president at
Politico; and Lee, senior adviser at Venn Strategies, K Street
Capital includes lobbyist and Democratic fundraiser Heather Podesta, and Edelman’s David Almacy, who oversaw the White House
website during the  Bush administration .  Early on, the group got pitches mostly from technology
companies with a political focus -- and passed. “We almost were
too smart for our own good,” Lee said. “We probably dissected
them a little bit too greatly, knowing what we knew having been
a little bit more on the practical side.”  Social Tables’ Berger said the check from K Street’s angels
was $25,000, out of more than $500,000 the company raised. The
added benefits came in introductions, such as when Lee connected
the company with Kimball Stroud, who managed inauguration events
for President  Bill Clinton  and now arranges awards dinners and
receptions for ambassadors and the entertainment industry.  Washington Rising  Venture activity in Washington is dwarfed by the technology
powerhouses of Silicon Valley,  New York  and  Boston . Funding from
venture capitalists and angel investors in the  District of
Columbia ,  Virginia  and  Maryland  was $1.29 billion last year. In
Silicon Valley, funding for the fourth quarter alone was about
$2.5 billion.  Still, the number of deals in Washington in the fourth
quarter was the highest in any three-month period in the past
five years, according to CB Insights, an angel investment
research company.  Steve Case , the AOL co-founder turned venture capitalist,
said Washington’s connection to policy can help tech startups
focusing on health and education. Case is chief executive
officer of Washington-based investment firm Revolution LLC, an
early investor in LivingSocial Inc., on online-discount service.  “Silicon Valley is still the leader nationally in terms of
entrepreneurship,” Case said. “New York is a strong second.
But D.C. is in that next tier that really is rising.”  Prince Charming  In addition to Social Tables, K Street Capital last week
announced a $75,000 investment in Dashboard.io, which aggregates
data for startups and their angel investors.  Hinge generated lively conversation at the group’s recent
dinner three blocks from the White House. Its 28-year-old
founder, Bennett Richardson, brought a novel connection to his
pitch: he was once a bouncer at a Georgetown nightspot where
customers included Bush’s daughters Jenna and Barbara.  Richardson, wearing black-framed glasses and a button-down
shirt, told the group that young professionals want more
anonymity than online dating provides.  “They don’t think they’d find the right kind of person
online,” Richardson said. “If I don’t want to join an online
dating site, why would my Prince Charming want to join an online
dating site?”  In choosing a dating partner, people want to use their own
networks first, Bennett said. Social networking sites provide an
opportunity to remove the stigma and ensure suitors aren’t
strangers, he said.  The pitch worked. K Street Capital committed to investing
$25,000, pending approval of plans for expanding beyond
 Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Megan Hughes in Washington at 
 mhughes43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  