-- Qantas Europe Sales Up 6-Fold on Emirates Alliance Deal
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-04-01T11:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/qantas-europe-sales-up-6-fold-on-emirates-alliance-deal.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , the Australian
airline that has vowed to restore profit at its international
operations, said  Europe  bookings rose six-fold as an alliance
with Emirates reduces flight times between the continents.  The agreement with the Dubai-based airline cuts average
journey times by more than two hours from Melbourne and Sydney
to the top 10 destinations in Europe, according to a statement
from Qantas  yesterday  marking the partnership’s first flight.  The  accord  allows Australia’s largest carrier to shift its
planes to more profitable Asian routes while reaching European
destinations with a single stop in Dubai. Qantas Chief Executive
Officer Alan Joyce pledged to return the carrier’s international
business to  profit  after the Sydney-based company last year
reported its first annual loss since at least 1993, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dubai is “the geographical centerpiece of the
partnership,”  Tim Clark , Emirates president, said in the
statement.  On the new network, passengers will be able to fly to 65
international destinations with one stop in Dubai, compared with
the five one-stop destinations in Europe under Qantas’s previous
alliance with  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) ’s
British Airways unit.  Qantas long-haul services have battled for passengers with
Gulf carriers, including Emirates, while contending with fuel
costs that eat away about half of revenue on a flight between
Australia and  London .  Combined Flights  The tie-up is probably worth about A$90 million ($94
million) a year before tax to Qantas, as it fills more seats on
combined flights to Europe,  New Zealand  and  Southeast Asia  and
drops the unprofitable Frankfurt service, Andrew Gibson, an
analyst at Goldman Sachs Inc., said in a note to clients Feb.
22.  Qantas has gained 20 percent this year in Sydney trading,
compared with a 6.8 percent jump for the benchmark S&P/ASX 200.  Qantas narrowed its loss on overseas routes in the first
half to A$91 million from an A$262 million deficit a year
earlier, after dropping unprofitable flights and retiring older
planes,  Australia ’s largest carrier said Feb. 21.  Pretax earnings in the year ending June are expected to be
A$211 million, the average of  11 analyst estimates , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a pretax loss of
A$349 million during fiscal 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  