-- Rallying Stocks Generate Best Return of Quarter, Beating Bonds
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g ,   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-04-01T20:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/rallying-stocks-generate-best-return-of-quarter-beating-bonds.html
Global stocks beat all other
investments for a second quarter, the first back-to-back
outperformance since 2009, as accelerating economic growth
pushed equities past commodities, bonds and the dollar.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (SPX)  of equities in 45 markets
climbed 6.6 percent including dividends in the first three
months of 2013, as the Nikkei 225 Stock Average surged 20
percent and U.S. shares reached records. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Total Return Index of 24 raw materials added 0.6 percent,
while the  Dollar Index  climbed 4 percent and bonds of all types
returned 0.6 percent as of March 31, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index.  Global equity values rose by $2.6 trillion as data from
retail sales to employment and housing showed the  U.S. economy 
gaining momentum and the  Bank of Japan  doubled its inflation
target. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he will
continue to provide monetary stimulus. Slowing growth in China
damped demand for commodities, while the Dollar Index
strengthened as a bailout for Cyprus reignited concern that
Europe’s debt crisis isn’t over.  “There seems to be a consensus building that economic
growth is stabilizing, while inflation is not much of a
concern,” Wasif Latif, the San Antonio-based vice president of
equity investments at USAA Investments, said by telephone. His
firm oversees $54 billion. “Central banks with their easy money
policies have in effect been able to take the worst case
scenarios off the table. In that type of environment, stocks
should be the better asset class.”  Dow Record  The MSCI All-Country equity gauge slid 0.4 percent to
358.49 in New York today. The  S&P 500  surpassed its 2007 all-
time highs last month, bringing its return this year to 11
percent. Investors poured $51.9 billion into stock mutual funds
in January and February, the most to start a year since 2007,
according to data from Washington-based  Investment Company
Institute . Bond funds received $52.9 billion.  The U.S.  unemployment rate  unexpectedly declined to 7.7
percent, the lowest since December 2008, from 7.9 percent, the
Labor Department said last month. It’s still above the Fed’s
target of less than 6.5 percent. Bernanke said on March 20 that
the U.S. central bank will alter its monthly bond buying in
response to gains in the job market, underscoring a need for
flexibility as he expands Fed assets beyond a record $3
trillion.  Equity Strategists  Among Wall Street strategists tracked by Bloomberg, last
year’s two biggest bears lifted S&P 500 estimates for 2013 to at
least 1,600. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s chief U.S. equity
strategist,  David Kostin , raised his forecast to 1,625 from
1,575.  Adam Parker  of Morgan Stanley boosted his to 1,600 from
1,434. The average estimate by 17 strategists surveyed by
Bloomberg projects the S&P 500 will climb 0.9 percent to 1,583
at the end of 2013.  Stocks with the  10 biggest  first-quarter gains in the MSCI
All-Country index were from the U.S. and Japan. Netflix Inc.,
the  Los Gatos , California-based online video service, surged 104
percent. Electronics retailer Best Buy Co. in Richfield,
Minnesota, and Sony Corp., Japan’s largest consumer electronics
exporter, rallied at least 70 percent.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 has risen the most this year among 45
equity indexes in emerging and developed markets tracked by
Bloomberg. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s government unveiled a
10.3 trillion yen ($109.3 billion) spending plan in January and
the premier convinced the Bank of Japan to double its inflation
target to 2 percent.  China Slowdown  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials gained 1.1 percent
in March, led by natural gas, as investors weighed faster U.S.
growth against concern  China’s economy  will slow and signs of
surplus in commodities. Zinc declined for a second month, while
lead, coffee and aluminum prices fell in March.  “I’m expecting things will be slow in the commodity world
until at least early next year,” said  John Stephenson , a senior
vice president and portfolio manager who helps oversee C$2.8
billion ($2.75 billion) at First Asset Investment Management
Inc. in Toronto. “You need China to be firing on all cylinders.
And you need Europe at least not to act as a drag and to show
positive growth, which it won’t this year.”  European governments and the  International Monetary Fund 
agreed last month to lend Cyprus 10 billion euros ($13 billion)
as long as the Mediterranean island liquidated its second-
largest bank and forced losses on bank bondholders and deposits
of more than 100,000 euros. The bailout of the euro-area’s
third-smallest economy spurred concern that  bank deposits  in
other member nations may be subject to levies for rescues.  Gold Slumps  Manufacturing in China, the top consumer of cotton, copper
and soybeans, expanded at the weakest pace in five months in
February, the government said March 1. China’s economy is
projected to grow 8.1 percent this year, the second-slowest pace
in the last decade.  Gold futures on the Comex in New York fell 4.8 percent to
post a second straight quarter of losses, the longest streak
since 2001. The metal climbed 1.1 percent in March.  “Gold bugs have had to run for cover,” said Brian Jacobsen, who helps oversee about $217 billion as chief
portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in Menomonee
Falls, Wisconsin. “Tighter monetary policy in China, coupled
with lower growth targets in China has taken support out of the
gold market.”  The slump in raw materials is “overdone” and prices will
rebound in the next three months as China’s economy accelerates,
 Jeffrey Currie , head of commodities research at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in New York, said in a March 7 report.  Oil Markets  Brent crude  dropped 1.2 percent in March and 1 percent this
year, amid a recovery in production from the North Sea and
concern that Europe’s debt crisis may worsen. West Texas
Intermediate crude advanced 5.6 percent this month and 5.9
percent this year on speculation that expanded pipeline capacity
will help clear an inventory surplus in the U.S. Midwest.  The  U.S. Dollar Index (DXY)  rallied 1.3 percent in March. The
gauge is forecast to weaken to 81.6 by the end of 2013 from
82.9, according to the median estimate of 15 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  The euro slipped 1.8 percent last month and traded at less
than $1.28 for the first time since November. The common
European currency has depreciated 2.8 percent versus its U.S.
counterpart this year.  Dollar Flows  “The re-emergence of risks in Europe are driving some
flows to the greenback,”  Eric Lascelles , chief economist in
Toronto for RBC Global Asset Management, which oversees $270
billion, said in a telephone interview.  The yen weakened against all but one of its 16 most-traded
peers tracked by Bloomberg in the past three months as Bank of
Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda, who assumed his post last month,
seeks to add to stimulus measures. Investors also sought the yen
as a haven in March amid Cyprus’s bank bailout. The currency
fell 1.8 percent to the dollar and was about unchanged against
the euro last month as of March 29.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index,
tracking debt securities with a market value of about $45
trillion, has returned 0.6 percent in 2013, its eighth-straight
quarterly gain. Average yields fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, last month to 1.68 percent on March 27.  A gauge of high-yield bonds returned 0.8 percent last
month, the 10th month of the rally and the longest stretch since
2009. Speculative-grade debt, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by S&P, gained 2.6 percent last
quarter.  Treasury Yields  U.S. Treasuries returned 0.1 percent last month after
climbing 0.6 percent in February. American federal government
debt fell 0.3 percent last quarter. Yields on 10-year  U.S.
government debt  may climb to 2.25 percent by the end of the
year, from 1.85 percent, according to the median estimate of 74
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  South Africa’s bonds were the best performers in March
among the 26 sovereign markets tracked by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, rising 0.02
percent. Hungary’s were second with the same gain. Denmark debt
lost the most with an 0.2 percent decline and Ireland’s fell 0.1
percent.  For the quarter, Ireland’s securities gained the most,
rallying 4.3 percent. The 0.2 percent decline for Denmark debt
was the biggest drop.  “When I think of the special factors that have supported
the stock market and the  bond market , if you think of it from a
price perspective, it’s not economic growth -- that’s been
fairly lean -- it’s really in the context of ongoing monetary
support,” Lascelles said March 27. “It’s the idea that policy
makers are willing to do whatever it takes in the European
context or willing to deliver a whole big chunk of stimulus in
the U.S.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  