-- Treasuries’ Lure Abroad Grows in $3 Trillion Fed Account
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-04-01T15:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/treasuries-lure-abroad-grows-in-3-trillion-fed-account.html
International investors bought more
Treasuries last quarter than any other start to a year since
2009, with holdings approaching $3 trillion, as a new crisis in
 Europe  weighs on the euro and  Japan  debases the yen.  The Federal Reserve’s  holdings  of U.S. government debt on
behalf of foreign central banks rose $63.5 billion, or 2.4
percent, to $2.95 trillion as of March 27, according to the
central bank.  China , the largest foreign lender to the U.S., has
been buying Treasuries at the fastest pace since 2011.  Rather than slowing purchases as U.S. lawmakers struggled
to avoid $600 billion in automatic spending cuts and tax
increases, international investors are again seeking Treasuries,
underscoring their role as a store of value. The demand is
helping Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke keep yields low, increasing
investor appetite for dollars even after the central bank poured
more than $2.5 trillion into the financial system since 2008.  “The U.S. is standing out as a place of relative growth,
strength and stability,” Wan-Chong Kung, a bond fund manager in
 Minneapolis  at Nuveen Asset Management, which manages more than
$100 billion, said in a March 28 telephone interview. “The big,
bad outcomes have been avoided.”  Overseas demand isn’t just coming from central banks. Total
foreign  holdings  rose 0.8 percent in January to a record $5.62
trillion after rising a combined 0.9 percent in November and
December, according to the latest Treasury Department data.  Financing Deficits  Foreign demand is a welcome development for President
 Barack Obama  and the Treasury Department as they seek to finance
budget deficits of about $1 trillion with bond sales just as the
Fed signals it may slow the pace of its purchases as the economy
improves. The central bank, which holds about $1.78 trillion of
the securities, is adding $85 billion a month in Treasuries and
mortgage bonds.  Gross domestic product will likely be growing at a 2.6
percent annual rate by the end of the year, compared with an
average of 1.97 percent for Group of 10 nations, according to
separate surveys of economists by Bloomberg.  “People are starting to view the U.S. as the growth engine
of the world,”  George Goncalves , the head of interest-rate
strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc., one of the 21 primary dealers
that trade directly with the Fed, said in a March 26 telephone
interview. “We’re finally getting our act together, and you
can’t write off the U.S. These foreign central banks are not
going to move away. They feel comfort in the American story.”  Seeking Safety  Treasuries have rallied in recent weeks as the bailout of
Cyprus prompted investors to seek the safest assets. Ten-year
 yields  fell eight basis points last week, or 0.08 percentage
point, to 1.85 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.
That’s down from this year’s high of 2.08 percent on March 8.  The price of the benchmark 2 percent note due in February
2023 rose 22/32, or $6.88 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 11/32.
The market was shut on March 29 for Good Friday.  The yield was 1.84 percent today as of 11:05 a.m. in New
York.  Foreign investors are pouring in as Treasuries registered a
loss of 0.3 percent in the first quarter, after a 0.1 percent
loss in the last three months of 2012, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Treasury Master Index.  An added benefit is that Treasuries due in 10 years or more
are relatively cheap, yielding about 0.54 percentage point more
than non-U.S. sovereign debt, the most since 2011, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show. As recently as September,
Treasuries yielded less than the rest of the world on average.  Lower Confidence  Those yields will look extra appealing as the $85 billion
in mandated budget known as sequestration curb growth, according
to Allen Lei, a Taipei-based Treasuries trader at Hontai Life
Insurance Co., which has $6 billion in fixed-income assets. The
Conference Board’s  consumer confidence  index fell to 59.7 for
March from a three-month high of 68 in February. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg projected the measure would fall to 67.5.  “We will see the economy pull back soon,” Lei said in a
March 26 telephone interview. “The effects of the budget cuts
will happen in the next few months.”  China is returning as a buyer after reducing holdings for
more than a year. The world’s second-largest economy added
$110.9 billion of Treasuries from October through January to
bring its holdings to $1.26 trillion. That was the most bought
by China over a four month period since July 2011. It sold $161
billion from August 2011 through September 2012.  Currency Influences  China’s purchases may be due to concern that the value of
the dollar’s two biggest competitors -- the euro and the yen --
is being diminished as reserve currencies, said  Michael Cheah ,
who manages $2 billion in bonds at SunAmerica Asset Management
in Jersey City, New Jersey.  Cyprus has become the fifth member of the euro zone to ask
for a bailout, while the yen has tumbled about 18 percent since
mid-September as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe encourages the  Bank
of Japan (8301)  to print as much money as it takes to end deflation.
The euro has depreciated about 21 percent since the start of
2009, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes show.  “It make doesn’t sense for China to bring the allocation
of dollar assets lower,” said Cheah, who worked at the
 Singapore  Monetary Authority in the 1980s and 1990s. He teaches
finance at New York University and at Chinese universities.  The  U.S. Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc.
uses to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, has rallied 4 percent this year to 82.976,
about the highest since August. The index has risen about 17
percent from its lows in 2008.  Currency Protection  Currency valuations drive bond demand from China, which
controls the appreciation of the  yuan , and Japan, according to
Ali Jalai, a trader of Treasuries in Singapore at Scotiabank, a
unit of  Canada ’s  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , a primary dealer. Asian
central banks and governments are among Scotiabank’s customers.  “China buys Treasuries to protect its exchange rate,”
Jalai said in a telephone interview March 28. “The weakening of
the yen also increases demand for Treasuries from institutions
in Japan.”  The lack of inflation in the U.S., which is reinforced by
the dollar’s strength, enhances the appeal of Treasuries and
will prompt the Fed to keep buying, according to Hideo Shimomura, the chief fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co., a unit of Japan’s largest publicly-traded bank.  “There’s disinflationary pressure in the U.S.,”
Shimomura, who helps oversee the equivalent of $63.2 billion
from  Tokyo , said in a March 25 telephone interview. “It’s not a
self-expanding economy. They Fed will keep doing quantitative
easing. Money will be coming into Treasuries.”  ‘Supply Shortage’  Even as the Fed has expanded its balance sheet to a record
$3.2 trillion, its preferred measure of inflation, the personal
consumption expenditures index, which measures household
spending, rose 1.2 percent in January from a year earlier, the
Commerce Department said March 1. That was the smallest increase
since October 2009 and down from a recent high of 2.9 percent in
September 2011. Faster inflation erodes the value of bonds.  Strategists at Bank of America Merrill Lynch forecast the
Fed will buy $540 billion in Treasuries this year, and that
foreign holdings, which rose by $566.4 billion, or 11 percent,
in 2012, will match or exceed that total.  That projects to $1.106 trillion in demand from the two
largest constituent buyers this year, or $123 billion more than
the firm’s forecast for net government debt supply.  “What matters for Treasury yields is the behavior of these
two biggest holders of the market, foreign investors and the
Fed,” Shyam Rajan, an interest-rate strategist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in New York, another primary dealer, said
in a March 25 telephone interview. “If they continue buying at
the same pace, then we still have a supply shortage in the
Treasury market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  