-- Red Sox Sellout Streak Seen Ending as Online Ticket Prices Drop
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-04-01T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/red-sox-sellout-streak-seen-ending-as-online-ticket-prices-drop.html
The  Boston Red Sox  open their 2013
season eager to forget the past two and preparing for the end of
their record home sellout streak.  The 793-game streak at Fenway Park, which has a capacity of
about 37,500, began on May 15, 2003, making it the longest in
Major League Baseball history. The  Cleveland Indians  held the
second-best mark of 455 straight from 1995-2001.  Coming off a 69-93 season -- their worst since 1965 -- and
two years after blowing a nine-game wild-card lead in September
2011, the Red Sox last week announced plans to offer  two-for-one
hot dogs  and discounted beer for adults and free food for
children under 15 throughout April, when cold New England
weather often keeps fans away. They’ve known since the beginning
of the year that the sellout streak probably would end early
this season, according to Sam Kennedy, the team’s chief
operating officer.  “While you never know, the streak of sellouts will likely
come to an end,” Kennedy said in a telephone interview. “It
will rest in peace.”  After opening the regular season today with a three-game
series at the  New York Yankees ,  Boston  visits the  Toronto Blue
Jays  before hosting the  Baltimore Orioles  in its April 8 home
opener.  “We’ll see how it goes for the first 17 games and then
maybe continue for the rest of the year if it goes well,”
Kennedy said of the concessions offer. “We’ve had a very
difficult offseason given the fact that we had a horrendous 2012
and an epic collapse in 2011, so this April promotion was
designed as a gesture of thanks as opposed to an enticement to
win the fans back.”  Fenway Park has been a hard to come by ticket for more than
a decade, and the team has surpassed three million in attendance
each of the last five seasons.  Secondary Market  An indication of the club’s difficulty selling tickets can
be seen on the secondary market, where average prices for 2013
are down almost $40 from last year, according to ticket-
aggregator TiqIQ.  Resale ticket prices for the Red Sox opener have become
less expensive in each of the past three seasons, and the trend
continues this year. The average ticket purchased on the
secondary market cost $172 in 2010, $155 in 2011, $110 in 2012
and $74 this year as of March 27, according to TiqIQ.  Fans will “wait for the secondary market to correct itself
and they’ll buy tickets depending on how the team does,” said
Chris Matcovich, a spokesman for TiqIQ.  William Sutton, a sports-marketing consultant to the  New
York  Mets and Pittsburgh Pirates, said he views the streak’s
demise as a “good thing” that, in the long run, will help
strengthen Boston’s fan base.  More Fans  “People who haven’t gone to Red Sox games or didn’t think
they could go are going to say, ‘Hey, we can go,”’ Sutton, the
founding director of the  University of South Florida ’s sport and
entertainment masters of business administration program, said
in a telephone interview. “There’s going to be a little bit of
pain, but you’re also going to extend your base a little bit so
you get some more people in the funnel.”  While on-field performance and weather heavily influence
attendance, other pressures include a slowly recovering economy
and competition for fans’ money from other successful New
England sports teams, Kennedy said. The Red Sox won the  World
Series  in 2004 and 2007, helping to sell tickets. The 2004
championship was the team’s first since 1918 and ended what some
fans called the “Curse of the Bambino,” a title drought that
was punishment for selling  Babe Ruth  to the New York Yankees
before the 1920 season.  Optimal Pricing  Optimal pricing can be complicated. Several teams use
variable pricing to sell individual-game tickets, offering some
at a regular price, some at a discount and others at a premium
depending on the opponent. Clubs such as the  New York Mets  and
San Francisco Giants use a dynamic-pricing model, applying real-
time sales data and other factors to adjust prices by the minute.  The Red Sox have -- so far -- not adopted variable or
dynamic pricing, instead applying what Kennedy called the
“Robin Hood theory” to ticketing, charging more for high-end
seats while slowing the growth of lower-end seat prices in the
grandstands and bleachers.  “The balance has worked very, very well for us,” Kennedy
said.  Still, for a franchise known for its use of statistical
analysis on the field, the  Red Sox ’s front office also is
scrutinizing data to sell seats and the streak’s probable end
will keep the club considering other strategies, Kennedy said.  “It makes you explore all the options, and I think that
our job is trying to estimate the market-clearing price, the
true value for a ticket for every game,” he said. “That’s a
tricky exercise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  