-- Rubber Bear Market Draws Draws Export Curbs From Thailand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-01T15:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/rubber-bear-market-draws-draws-export-curbs-from-thailand.html
Rubber’s slump into a bear market
drew export curbs from  Thailand , the biggest producer, as
expanding stockpiles in China signaled easing demand from the
largest consumer of the commodity used in tires.  Thailand said it would reduce shipments through May to
support prices as futures on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange, the
global benchmark, dropped 20 percent from this year’s high. Five
of nine analysts and traders in China surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast further declines this quarter after rubber dropped in
February and March.  Officials from Thailand, Indonesia and  Malaysia  --
representing about 70 percent of world output -- will meet April
10-12 on the resort island of Phuket to discuss measures to
bolster prices, Thai Deputy Farm Minister Yuttapong Charasathien
said in a telephone interview yesterday. Inventories in bonded
warehouses in Qingdao,  China ’s main import hub, reached an all-
time high on March 15 as the nation’s industrial output had the
 weakest start  to a year since 2009.  “China’s growth is not strong enough to absorb surplus
supply,” said Takaki Shigemoto, an analyst at research company
JSC Corp. in Tokyo. “Inventories may continue to expand unless
producers take additional steps to restrict shipments.”  China’s benchmark stock index traded near the lowest level
since December yesterday as a key manufacturing gauge missed
economist estimates while the Topix Index dropped the most since
March 2011 after the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s Tankan index of confidence
among large manufacturers also lagged forecasts.  Tokyo, Shanghai  Rubber for delivery in September on the  Tokyo  raw materials
bourse dropped 2.6 percent yesterday to 266.9 yen a kilogram
($2,844 a metric ton), a 20 percent decline from this year’s
highest settlement for a most-active contract of 334 yen reached
Feb. 6.  The contract for delivery the same month on the Shanghai
Futures Exchange dropped 3.2 percent after plunging 16 percent
during the first quarter. Thai rubber free-on-board lost 0.4
percent to 85.25 baht ($2.91) a kilogram, according to the
Rubber Research Institute of Thailand. That is the lowest level
since November 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand reduced exports by 300,000
tons in the six months through March and removed aging trees to
help curb slumping prices, according to Thailand’s Yuttapong.
The measures came after futures in Tokyo slumped to a three-year
low of 205.6 yen in August.  ‘Weak Demand’  Indonesia  will review overseas shipments, said Mardjoko,
exports director for agriculture and forestry products at
Indonesia’s Trade Ministry, by text message. Yuttapong didn’t
provide details about Thailand’s curbs through May.  “The top three may impose additional measures to boost
prices, which may be able to help in the short term,” Sureerat
Kunthongjun, an analyst at Agrow Enterprise Ltd., said by phone
from Bangkok. “The long-term outlook is depressed by weak
demand and high inventory level.”  Qingdao inventories climbed to 358,300 tons by March 15,
said Cai Zhiwei, general manager at the Qingdao International
Rubber Exchange Market, in an interview on March 22. Stockpiles
monitored by the Shanghai Futures Exchange climbed to 117,696
tons, the highest in over three years, the bourse said March 29.
China accounts for 34 percent of global demand, according to the
International Rubber Study Group.  “Multiple risks remain for the rubber outlook -- inventory
overhang, a weak global economy and rising production,” said
Cai. “Barring any major stimulus on the macro front, there’ll
be renewed weakness in rubber prices.”  Truck Tires  Demand for tires for large trucks will slow this year as
China shifts from heavy industries to a more consumption-driven
growth model, said Shen Jinrong, chairman of Hangzhou Zhongce
Rubber Co., the nation’s largest tire maker, on March 27.  “The heavy-truck sector accounts for about half of China’s
total natural-rubber consumption,” Shen Jun, a trader at
 Shanghai  Flow International Trade Co., said by phone from
Shanghai. “While China’s economy has recovered since the fourth
quarter of last year, infrastructure projects and investment
isn’t catching up at a speed that will stimulate heavy-truck
sales.”  The Japanese yen, which depreciated 7.3 percent this year
against the dollar, helping increase trading volume on the Tokyo
Commodity Exchange, won’t be enough to support the rubber price,
said Kazuhiko Saito, an analyst at broker Fujitomi Co.  “The yen’s weakness alone cannot support rubber futures as
the fundamentals of the commodity are getting worse,” Saito
said by phone from Tokyo. “We have abundant supply from
Southeast Asian countries and a weak recovery in Chinese
demand.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  