-- Rubber Trades in Bear Market as China Stockpiles Swell
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-01T07:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/rubber-trades-near-bear-market-as-china-stockpiles-swell.html
Rubber fell into a  bear market  as
expanding stockpiles in China signaled easing demand from the
world’s largest consumer of the commodity used in tires.  Rubber for delivery in September on the  Tokyo  Commodity
Exchange dropped 2.6 percent to 266.9 yen a kilogram ($2,844 a
metric ton), a 20 percent decline from this year’s highest
settlement for a most-active contract of 334 yen reached Feb. 6.  Thailand, the biggest producer and exporter, extended curbs
on shipments today to the end of May to boost prices.
Inventories in warehouses in Qingdao, China’s main shipment hub,
reached an all-time high on March 15 as the nation’s industrial
output had the  weakest start  to a year since 2009.  “ China ’s growth is not strong enough to absorb surplus
supply,” said Takaki Shigemoto, an analyst at research company
JSC Corp. in Tokyo. “Inventories may continue to expand unless
producers take additional steps to restrict shipments.”  China’s benchmark stock index fell as a key manufacturing
gauge missed economist estimates while the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average slid after the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s Tankan index of
confidence among large manufacturers also lagged forecasts.  Five of nine analysts and traders in China surveyed by
Bloomberg last week forecast prices to fall in the three months
through June. Rubber in Tokyo, the international benchmark,
slumped 9.4 percent in the first quarter while the most-active
contract in Shanghai plunged 16 percent.  Thai Plans  Indonesia , Malaysia and  Thailand , which represent about 70
percent of global output, reduced exports by 300,000 tons in the
six months through March and removed aging trees to help curb
slumping prices, according to Thai Deputy Farm Minister
Yuttapong Charasathien. The measures came after futures in Tokyo
slumped to a three-year low of 205.6 yen in August.  Officials from the three nations will meet in Phuket April
10-12 to discuss further price support measures, including
extending export reductions, Yuttapong said by phone from
Bangkok today.  Indonesia will review overseas shipments, said Mardjoko,
exports director for agriculture and forestry products at
Indonesia’s Trade Ministry, by text message today.  “The top three may impose additional measures to boost
prices, which may be able to help in the short term,” Sureerat
Kunthongjun, an analyst at Agrow Enterprise Ltd., said by phone
from Bangkok. “The long-term outlook is depressed by weak
demand and high inventory level.”  ‘Multiple Risks’  Qingdao inventories climbed to 358,300 tons by March 15,
said Cai Zhiwei, general manager at the Qingdao International
Rubber Exchange Market, in an interview on March 22. Stockpiles
monitored by the  Shanghai  Futures Exchange climbed to 117,696
tons, the highest in over three years, the bourse said March 29.
China accounts for 34 percent of global demand, according to the
International Rubber Study Group.  “Multiple risks remain for the rubber outlook -- inventory
overhang, a weak global economy and rising production,” said
Cai. “Barring any major stimulus on the macro front, there’ll
be renewed weakness in rubber prices.”  Demand for tires for large trucks will slow this year as
China shifts from heavy industries to a more consumption-driven
growth model, said Shen Jinrong, chairman of Hangzhou Zhongce
Rubber Co., the nation’s largest tire maker, on March 27.  “The heavy-truck sector accounts for about half of China’s
total natural-rubber consumption,” Shen Jun, a trader at
Shanghai Flow International Trade Co., said by phone from
Shanghai today. “While  China’s economy  has recovered since the
fourth quarter of last year, infrastructure projects and
investment isn’t catching up at a speed that will stimulate
heavy-truck sales.”  The Japanese yen, which depreciated 7.3 percent this year
against the dollar, helping increase trading volume on the Tokyo
Commodity Exchange, won’t be enough to support the rubber price,
said Kazuhiko Saito, an analyst at broker Fujitomi Co.  “The yen’s weakness alone cannot support rubber futures as
the fundamentals of the commodity are getting worse,” Saito
said by phone from Tokyo. “We have abundant supply from
Southeast Asian countries and a weak recovery in Chinese
demand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brett Miller  at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  