-- Russia Won’t Bail Out Cyprus Savers Facing Deposit Losses
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-04-01T14:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/russia-won-t-bail-out-cyprus-savers-facing-deposit-losses.html
Russia  won’t bail out people or
companies that stand to lose money held at Cyprus’s two largest
banks, First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said.  “If someone gets stuck and loses money in those two
biggest banks, that’s really too bad,” Shuvalov said in an
 interview  late yesterday on Russian state television. “But the
Russian government isn’t planning to do anything in this case.”  Russia turned away requests from Cyprus for additional
financial assistance last month after criticizing plans that
would have forced losses on insured deposits. President  Vladimir Putin  ordered the government to resume talks with the cash-
strapped Mediterranean island on restructuring its 2.5 billion-
euro ($3.2 billion) loan granted in 2011 after an agreement
reached last month over a new European-led rescue.  Russia’s government bristled at suggestions that it was
responsible for bailing out the euro member as politicians from
states including  Germany  alleged that Cyprus was used to launder
illegal Russian money. Funds held by Russians on the island
aren’t all illegal, Shuvalov said.  “There’s money on which taxes weren’t paid, and there’s
money where taxes were paid but for some reason people decided
to keep it in Cypriot banks,” he said.  ‘Closely Following’  The government is “closely following” the situation
around Russian Commercial Bank, a Cypriot unit of state-run
lender VTB Group, as it determines what further support may be
offered, Natalya Timakova, a spokeswoman for Prime Minister
 Dmitry Medvedev , said in an e-mailed statement today. VTB had
the “most exposure” to the unfolding crisis of any Russian
bank,  Standard & Poor’s  said March 27.  Medvedev met with senior ministers and central bank
Chairman Sergey Ignatiev on March 30 to discuss restructuring
the loan “as well as measures to protect the interests of
Russian Commercial Bank and Russian companies conducting
financial operations through that bank,” Timakova said.  VTB Group’s exposure in Cyprus is “absolutely
manageable,” First Deputy President Yuri Soloviev said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Guy Johnson  and Francine Lacqua on March 28. The company’s assets in Cyprus are an
“integral part” of VTB Group, he said.  The Moscow-based bank has $13.8 billion of assets in the
country, Moody’s Investors Service said in a March 13 report.
VTB may lose “only tens of millions of euros” in Cyprus, and
its subsidiary contributes about 3 percent of the group’s total
profit, according to a March 20  statement  on the lender’s
website.  Russia’s Stance  Russia would be willing to discuss “specific instances,”
where companies partly owned by the state or individuals are
facing “serious losses,” from deposits held at  Bank of Cyprus
Plc  or  Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl (CPB) , according to Shuvalov.  “We’re prepared to consider it, publicly, transparently,
and here in Russia,” he said. “But that absolutely doesn’t
require any assistance to Cyprus.”  Cyprus may force losses of as much as 60 percent on Bank of
Cyprus accounts above the 100,000 euro insured threshold,
according to the central bank in Nicosia. To secure a 10
billion-euro bailout last month, President Nicos Anastasiades
agreed to terms including closing Cyprus Popular and putting its
deposits above the insured level in a “bad bank.”  The estimated $20 billion of Russian deposits held on the
island, while substantial for Cyprus, represents 1 percent of
Russia’s $2 trillion economy and 2 percent of its domestic
savings, according to Natalia Orlova, chief economist at Moscow-
based  Alfa Bank , Russia’s largest private lender.  Little Impact  “We believe the majority of Russian money in Cyprus
belongs to private individuals and small and medium-sized
companies, while large Russian entities are unlikely to be
deeply affected,” she said in a note today. The “majority” of
those deposits are above the protected limit, she said.  Shuvalov told reporters last month that Russia may
ultimately benefit from  Europe ’s decision to target deposit
holders. By setting that precedent, Europe has cast doubt on the
reliability of its banks and makes Russia’s financial system
look comparatively more attractive, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  