-- MTS Vows to Fight VTB’s $3.6 Billion Tele2 Russian Takeover
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-04-02T16:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/mts-vows-to-fight-against-vtb-s-tele2-russia-deal-hecker-says.html
OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) , Russia’s
largest wireless carrier, plans to fight the purchase of  Tele2
AB (TEL2B) ’s local unit by a state-run lender and may invite competitor
 OAO MegaFon (MFON)  to divvy up the assets if its counterbid prevails.  “We do believe there is room to put the VTB deal on hold
and persuade Tele2 leadership to consider our offer, which is
financially superior,” said Michael Hecker, vice president for
strategy at MTS, as the Moscow-based company controlled by
billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov is known.  MTS and rival  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , which is controlled by
billionaire Mikhail Fridman’s Alfa Group, jointly offered as
much as $4.25 billion for Tele2 Russia last week, seeking to
trump an agreed takeover of the business by Kremlin-backed VTB
Group for $3.55 billion in cash and debt. VTB may combine Tele2
 Russia  with the mobile assets of state-run OAO Rostelecom, which
would form a fourth nationwide wireless carrier in Russia,
Otkritie Capital said last week.  Rostelecom is 10.7 percent owned by President Vladimir
Putin’s former judo partner Arkady Rotenberg, while the
company’s newly appointed CEO, Sergey Kalugin, previously worked
for another of Putin’s allies, Yury Kovalchuk.  “We don’t want to prevent anything,” Hecker said in a
phone interview yesterday, adding that MTS isn’t afraid of the
emergence of a fourth nationwide mobile carrier. “We want to
create additional value both for us and for Tele2
shareholders.”  Legally Binding  The transaction with Tele2 is legally binding, with all
necessary corporate approvals from Tele2 and VTB obtained, VTB
said in a statement. The Moscow-based lender applied through a
unit for antitrust approval for the deal, Russia’s Federal Anti-
Monopoly Service said yesterday.  In a statement today, Stockholm-based Tele2 reiterated that
it expects the deal to be completed “shortly.” The agreement
includes provisions that give Tele2 rights, for 12 months after
the transaction is complete, to “half of the net cash profits
obtained by the VTB Group from certain types of transfers of
Tele2 Russia shares and assets to non-VTB Group entities,” it
said.  Tele2 fell 0.2 percent to close at 113.20 kronor in
 Stockholm . MTS added 0.8 percent to $20.91 at 12:33 p.m. in New
York. Rostelecom fell 0.4 percent to 120.65 rubles.  “Today’s statement from Tele2 is simply another piece of
evidence that they are leaving money on the table and know that
the asset is worth much more,” Hecker said today. Tele2 hasn’t
responded to MTS’s offer, he added.  Nationwide Carrier  Tele2 has mobile coverage in 41 out of 83 Russian regions
and 22.7 million users, while Rostelecom covers 30 regions and
has 13.6 million mobile customers. The two carriers combined,
while still a distant No. 4, would create a nationwide operator
with the scale to step up competition with bigger rivals.  At the end of last year, MTS had 71.2 million customers,
MegaFon 62.6 million and VimpelCom 56.1 million, according to
researcher AC&M Consulting.  Tele2 Russia’s assets would be split between MTS and
VimpelCom in a way that fits Russian antitrust requirements and
benefits customers, Hecker said. He declined to discuss which of
the regional assets MTS wants.  “Combining with Tele2 in certain regions will give MTS and
VimpelCom significant synergies, while millions of Tele2
customers will benefit from more affordable tariffs on on-net
calls and will enjoy fast data services, both of which Tele2
cannot match,” Hecker said.  Orascom Buyout  The partners may offer some assets to MegaFon, which is
controlled by billionaire  Alisher Usmanov . MegaFon’s stock has
risen 55 percent since its debut in  London  in November.  MegaFon spokesman Petr Lidov declined to comment.  For Fridman, whose Alfa Group controls VimpelCom, the
telecommunications industry is also a strategic investment. Alfa
on March 31 made a $1.8 billion offer to buy out investors in
 Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE) , which is about 52 percent owned by
VimpelCom. Orascom has networks in  Bangladesh , central  Africa 
and  Pakistan  and is seeking to end an ownership conflict with
the Algerian government.  Alfa last month completed a $14 billion sale of a stake in
oil company TNK-BP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  