-- Sasco Said to Hire Ex-Dublin Hill’s Joe Howley
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-04-01T18:17:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/sasco-said-to-hire-ex-dublin-hill-s-joe-howley.html
Sasco (SACO)  Energy Partners LLC, the $650
million commodity trading adviser, has hired Joe Howley, who
shelved plans last year to start his own hedge fund after the
death of his business partner Richard Ruzika, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  Howley, 53, will start immediately as a partner at Sasco,
which is focused on North American natural gas and was founded
in 2008 by Todd Esse and Thomas Purdy, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the information is private.
Howley will trade, assist with risk management and help develop
personnel, the person said.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Westport, Connecticut-
based Sasco at Sard Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment on the
appointment.  Howley had planned to start Dublin Hill Capital with
Ruzika, the former chief of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s special-
situations group, who died at 53 last year after a stroke
following knee surgery. Dublin Hill, which had planned to trade
a macro strategy with a focus on commodities, suspended plans to
start a hedge fund after Ruzika’s stroke.  Howley was previously managing director of natural-gas
derivative trading at  Sempra Energy (SRE) , where he led a team of
traders and worked closely with Esse on the firm’s energy desk,
the person said.  Before that, Howley was head of natural-gas trading at
Goldman Sachs. He also previously worked at Tudor Investment
Corp. and began his career at J. Aron & Co., the commodities
division of Goldman Sachs, according to the person. He never had
a losing year throughout his career, the person said.  Howley is at least the third person Sasco has hired in the
past year, the person said. Michael Zenker joined the firm as
head of fundamental research from Barclays Plc, and David Zeitz,
formerly of Sempra, as chief risk and compliance officer,
according to the person.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  