-- Saudi Arabia’s Al-Naimi Sees Demand Holding Strong in Asia
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-04-01T21:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/saudi-arabia-s-al-naimi-sees-demand-holding-strong-in-asia.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali al- Naimi said demand for crude will hold strong from Asian buyers
as the U.S. produces more of its own fuel.  “The expectations of energy demand and growth are still
positive,” al-Naimi said today in a speech in Doha, Qatar,
carried by official Saudi Press Agency. “I was in  Hong Kong 
recently and I felt optimism towards the future growth of the
region.”  Saudi Arabia , the biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, kept output unchanged in March
from February at 9 million barrels a day, according to a
Bloomberg survey. Demand for OPEC crude was estimated to average
29.7 million barrels a day in 2013, OPEC said in a monthly
report on March 12. That’s a drop of 400,000 barrels a day from
last year and down 100,000 barrels a day from February’s report,
it said. OPEC supplies about 40 percent of the world’s crude.  “With the U.S. becoming more self-sufficient in energy due
to increased production of oil from shale formations, OPEC
countries will need to search for more buyers for their crude in
 Asia  and other  emerging markets ,” Charles Dewhurst, head of the
global energy practice for BDO USA LLP, an accounting and
consulting firm, said in a phone interview today.  Naimi said Saudi Arabia and other Arab producers in the
 Persian Gulf  “welcome access of all sources of new energy to
the market.” He said producers shouldn’t be worried about new
supplies as global demand is growing.  Large Market  “It is true that there are more companies and countries
that compete to win a bigger share of the market, but it is also
true that the market is large,” al-Naimi said.  The Saudi minister said increased production of
unconventional oil in  Canada  will have “some effects” on the
global market, while  Australia  will become a major exporter of
natural gas liquids to Asia.  “U.S. refineries are configured to process heavy and sour
crude and that makes Canadian oil a perfect match for U.S.
refiners and adds to North American energy independence,”
Dewhurst said. OPEC producers shouldn’t feel threatened by North
American production as they still enjoy a lower cost of
production, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  