-- SEC Backs Forcing Bank Disclosures on Muni-Bond Campaigns
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-04-01T18:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/sec-backs-rule-to-force-bank-disclosures-on-muni-bond-campaigns.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission will force state and local government bond
underwriters to disclose more information about donations to
election campaigns supporting new debt sales.  Banks will be required to report the timing of their
contributions to such campaigns, any work done on behalf of the
effort and whether they won underwriting work on resulting bond
issues passed by voters. On March 28, the SEC approved the
mandates, proposed by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
last year.  The requirements for the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond
market are aimed at assessing whether public officials are
steering underwriting work to banks that support campaigns to
win voter approval of debt sales. That may cost taxpayers if
banks recover such donations by charging higher fees.  “Even the appearance of pay-to-play in the municipal-bond
market can undermine public confidence,” Lynnette Kelly, the
executive director of the Alexandria, Virginia-based rulemaking
board, said in a statement released today. The MSRB is the
municipal-bond industry’s self-regulatory organization.  “Requiring more disclosure about dealers’ bond-ballot
contributions will shine light on potential connections between
dealers’ financial contributions and the awarding of bond
business,” Kelly said.  Not Banned  While underwriters are barred from giving to local
officials who award them work, there is no such ban on donating
to campaigns backing debt sales, such as capital-raising issues
proposed by school boards to finance new buildings.  Banks are currently required to report contributions to
election campaigns. Regulators have said that without
information on the timing of the donations and whether banks
were later hired, it’s difficult to assess how large a role such
donations play.  The practice has drawn scrutiny in  California , the most-
populous U.S. state.  Some California school districts in recent years have
agreed to award underwriting work to firms that agree to conduct
opinion polls, run community meetings and perform other work to
persuade voters to pass new bond issues, according to California
Treasurer Bill Lockyer. Some contracts specify that the
underwriters will be paid back with fees from the bond sale, an
arrangement that he said may run afoul of state law against
using public funds for bond campaigns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  