-- Serbia Wants Kosovo Pledge on Army in Northern Serb Areas
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-04-01T14:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/serbia-wants-kosovo-pledge-on-army-in-northern-serb-areas.html
Serbia wants Kosovo to commit to
keeping its army out of the Serb-dominated north of its former
breakaway province, while giving locals control over the police
and judiciary, President  Tomislav Nikolic  said.  Nikolic spoke to reporters before European Union-sponsored
negotiations in Brussels tomorrow between Serbian Premier Ivica Dacic and Kosovo Prime Minister Hashim Thaci. Those talks won’t
be “final,” he said in Belgrade today.  “We’re not sending a delegation that will accept
nothing,” Nikolic said. Serbian municipalities in northern
Kosovo must “be given decision-making rights on police and
judiciary,” and the Kosovo army to be formed “by summer” must
never be placed in the Serbian communities, he said.  The EU has demanded that the two sides, at loggerheads
since the wars of the 1990s, reach a political settlement to
move ahead with EU entry. Serbia’s struggling to obtain a date
for the start of membership talks in June, while  Kosovo  is line
for a Stabilization and Association Agreement, the first formal
step toward membership in the 27-nation bloc.  Serbs in the north of Kosovo blocked an administrative
checkpoint between Serbia and Kosovo to draw the attention of
negotiators in Brussels that they “won’t accept any solutions
for Kosovo that are against the constitution,” state-run news
agency Tanjug said today.  No Recognition  Serbia is “not refusing anything in advance nor seeking
ideal solutions,” and no one will “provoke us into abandoning
the talks,” Nikolic said. Serbia has been punished every time
it abandoned talks when faced with ultimatums, Nikolic said,
pledging “never to recognize Kosovo’s independence.”  Dacic said on March 28 that Serbia would reject any
“humiliating” compromise. He will be accompanied by Deputy
Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic, leader of the biggest party,
the Serbian Progressive Party of former nationalists.  Serbia is seeking deeper economic ties with the rest of
 Europe  after civil wars in the 1990s stunted its transformation
from communism. Dacic’s nine-month-old Cabinet is struggling to
narrow the budget gap and spur growth after the economy plunged
into its second recession in three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  