-- Silver Futures Drop Into Bear Market Amid China Slowdown Concern
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2013-04-01T17:45:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/silver-futures-drop-into-bear-market-amid-china-slowdown-concern.html
Silver prices fell into a bear
market as signs of a manufacturing slowdown in the U.S. and
 China , the world’s top consumers, spurred concern that metals
demand will ebb.  A U.S. factory index fell more than expected last month,
and a gauge of Chinese manufacturing showed expansion was slower
than analysts forecast, separate reports showed today. Silver
 imports  into the Asian nation fell the most in two years in
February, the fifth decline in six months, the latest customs
data show. Industrial demand accounts for about 56 percent of
global silver fabrication, which also includes the metal’s use
in jewelry and coins, according to Barclays Plc.  Prices slumped 6.3 percent last quarter, a second straight
decline, on slowing economic growth in China and concern that
the Federal Reserve will trim its stimulus program. The metal
reached a 31-year high of $49.845 an ounce in April 2011 as
global central banks expanded their balance sheets, boosting the
precious metal’s appeal as an inflation hedge.  “Silver has taken it on the chin,”  Frank McGhee , the head
dealer at Integrated Brokerage Services LLC in  Chicago , said in
a telephone interview. “China slowdown worries and fear of
stimulus measures ending in the U.S. have worked against
silver.”  On the Comex in New York, silver futures for May delivery
fell 1.3 percent to settle at $27.944. The price is down 20
percent from a close of $35.101 on Oct. 4, meeting the
definition used by some investors to identify a bear market.  The metal earlier dropped to $27.81, the lowest for a most-
active contract since Aug. 16.  ‘Lackluster Year’  “Silver will have a lackluster year as industrial demand
is not showing huge signs of improvement,” Rohit Savant, an
analyst at CPM Group Inc., said in a telephone interview in New
York today. “Also, the safe-haven premium has diminished.”  Hedge funds and other large speculators reduced their  bets 
on a silver rally by 77 percent in the week ended March 26 to
632 futures and options, the lowest since September 2007,
government data show. Inventories monitored by the Comex on
March 26 reached the highest since August 1997. Sales of
American Eagle silver coins by the U.S. Mint have declined for
two straight months.  “A lack of momentum in the precious-metals market is
driving silver down,” said David Christensen, who oversees $500
million of assets as chief executive officer of ASA Ltd., a San
Mateo, California-based company that invests in precious-metal
companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  