-- Singapore Home Prices Gain at Slowest Pace in Three Quarters
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-04-01T09:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/singapore-home-price-gains-slow-most-in-three-quarters-on-curbs.html
Singapore  home prices climbed at the
slowest pace in three quarters after the government imposed more
curbs such as higher stamp duties for housing transactions, a
government report showed.  The island state’s private residential property price index
 rose  0.5 percent to a record 213.1 points in the three months
ended March 31, easing from a 1.8 percent increase in the fourth
quarter, according to preliminary estimates released by the
Urban Redevelopment Authority today. The advance was the
smallest since the second quarter last year.  “Measures have taken effect,” David Neubronner, national
director at Jones Lang LaSalle’s residential project sales in
Singapore, said in a phone interview. “It’s taken out the
investors and that’s seen in the slowing prices and sales. Had
it not been for the curbs, home sales in the quarter would have
been much higher.”  Singapore’s home sales plunged 65 percent to a 14-month low
in February after the government introduced its seventh round of
property curbs to cool record prices. Sales dropped to 708 units
in February from a revised 2,016 units in January, the authority
said on March 15. The data for last month is expected in mid-
April.  Apartment prices increased 0.4 percent in prime districts
in the first quarter, down from a 0.7 percent gain in the
previous three months, the data showed. Those in the suburbs
climbed 1.7 percent, less than half of the 3.8 percent increase
in the previous quarter, according to the  statement  today.  Record Prices  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) , Singapore’s biggest publicly traded
developer, slid 0.3 percent to S$3.52 at the close of trading in
Singapore.  City Developments Ltd. (CIT) , the second largest, added 0.1
percent to S$11.34. The  index  tracking property stocks added 0.3
percent, led by commercial and industrial real estate companies
and trusts.  Record home prices amid low interest rates raised concerns
of a housing bubble and prompted the government to widen a four-
year campaign to curb speculation in Asia’s second-most
expensive housing market. Neubronner expects prices to remain
“flat” this year.  A  report  by the National University of Singapore’s
Institute of Real Estate Studies showed the NUS - Singapore
Residential Property Index fell 1.4 percent in February from the
previous month. Those in the central region declined 3.7
percent.  The measures in January included an increase in the stamp
duty for homebuyers of between 5 percentage points and 7
percentage points, with permanent residents paying taxes when
they buy their first home. Singaporeans will also have the levy
starting with their second purchase.  Singapore also plans to raise taxes for luxury homeowners
and investment properties. The higher tax will apply to the top
1 percent of homeowners who live in their own residences, or
12,000 properties, Singapore Finance Minister Tharman
Shanmugaratnam said in his budget speech on Feb. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  