-- Small-Business Insurance Market From Health Law Delayed a Year
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-04-02T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/small-business-insurance-market-promised-by-health-law-delayed.html
Small-business employees will have
to wait a year before they can choose their own medical plans
after the Obama administration delayed a part of the 2010 U.S.
health-care law intended to provide them with coverage options.  Starting in 2014, workers at companies with fewer than 100
employees were supposed to have been able to choose from a
variety of health plans through new small-business insurance
marketplaces. They’ll instead wait until at least 2015,
according to regulations released by the  U.S. Department of
Health  and Human Services.  In the meantime, small-business employees will face a
situation similar to what most companies offer, with their
employers choosing the coverage. Health insurers will still
offer the plans, though they’ll be competing for business from
companies, not individuals.  The delay is “a major letdown for small-business owners
and their employees looking forward to robust, competitive
exchanges in 2014,” said John Arensmeyer, chief executive
officer of the Small Business Majority, an advocacy group that
backed the health-care law, in a  statement .  Implementation of employee choice in the program won’t be
possible next year because of “operational challenges,” the
U.S. said in the  regulation  posted March 11. The government, in
its regulatory statement, said it had heard from insurers and
others who were worried that health plans, brokers and companies
wouldn’t be able to adjust to the new marketplace, called the
Small Business Health Options Program, or SHOP, in time.  ‘Transitional Policy’  “This transitional policy is intended to provide
additional time to prepare for an employee choice model and to
increase the stability of the small group market while providing
small groups with the benefits of SHOP in 2014,” the Obama
administration said in an  explanation  of the ruling.  The delay applies only to 33 health exchanges run by the
federal government. Sixteen states and the  District of Columbia 
are building their own.  The postponement offered another opportunity for critics of
the law.  “If one of the key goals of supporters of the health care
law was to provide small business owners with a competitive
process by which they could select from a number of affordable
health insurance plans for their employees, then that goal is
not in sight,” Representative Sam Graves, a Missouri
Republican, wrote in a March 27  letter  to  Marilyn Tavenner , who
heads the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.  Graves heads the House of Representatives’ Small Business
Committee. Tavenner’s agency is responsible for implementing
parts of the law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  