-- South Korea Exports Rise Less Than Estimated on Weaker Yen
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-04-01T00:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/south-korea-exports-rise-less-than-estimated-on-weaker-yen.html
South Korean exports rose less than
forecast last month as improving global demand for the country’s
electronics and cars was tempered by a weaker Japanese yen.  Overseas shipments  rose 0.4 percent in March from a year
earlier, after an 8.6 percent drop in February, the Ministry of
Trade, Industry and Energy said today. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 11 economists was for a 1.8 percent
gain. Consumer prices rose 1.3 percent last month from a year
ago, according to a Statistics Korea report.  Policy makers’ efforts to boost growth in  Asia ’s fourth-
largest economy have been aided by a won that’s declined 4.6
percent against the dollar since Jan. 1. President Park Geun
Hye’s government has pledged to enact new stimulus measures this
month after cutting the 2013 growth forecast to 2.3 percent from
3 percent last week.  “Overall global demand is improving, though the pace is
still slow,” Lee Sang Jae, a Seoul-based economist at Hyundai
Securities Co., said before the release. “Policy makers want to
drive the growth faster with every possible means.”  Imports fell 2 percent from a year earlier in March, the
ministry said today. The  trade surplus  widened to $3.4 billion
from $2 billion in February.  Even as the won fell against the dollar, the South Korean
currency gained about 21 percent against the yen in the past six
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The economy
expanded last year at the slowest pace since 2009.  Weakening Yen  South Korean companies have complained that the weakening
Japanese yen is blunting their competitiveness. The Federation
of Korean Industries, the nation’s largest business lobby group,
said in February that with Haruhiko Kuroda leading the  Bank of
Japan (8301) , the yen will likely decline further.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  said in January that currency gains
could reduce its operating profit by 3 trillion won ($2.8
billion) this year.  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  reported a 51 percent slump
in operating profit for the fourth quarter of 2012, saying a
difficult year is expected with a strengthening won.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  