-- South Korea Offers Tax Breaks to Revive Flagging Home Sales
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-04-01T10:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/south-korea-announces-tax-breaks-to-revive-flagging-home-sales.html
South Korea  will give tax breaks to
home buyers and cut borrowing costs as the government seeks to
revive home sales that tumbled to the lowest level since 2006,
threatening a rebound in  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy.  First-time home-buyers with annual income less than 60
million won ($53,900) will be exempted this year from taxes on
property purchases worth no more than 10 times their salary,
according to a government statement. Multiple-home owners will
see rules relaxed on capital-gains taxes.  The measures, which require parliamentary approval, are
aimed at reversing a housing slump that Land Minister Suh Seoung
Hwan says has gone on for too long. South Korea’s government
last week cut its growth forecast to 2.3 percent this year from
December’s 3 percent, and said they’ll unveil a supplementary
budget soon.  “The government did pretty much everything they can to
deregulate and make it easy for home transactions to increase,”
said Jean Lim, an economist at  Korea  Institute of Finance.
“Sales will go up in the short-term.”  Transactions fell 14 percent to 47,288 in February, the
least for that month in seven years, according to the land
ministry. Prices are also sliding, with values in  Seoul  lower
than any time since March 2008. January’s total of 27,070 home
transactions was the second-lowest for any month dating back to
2006, when the data was first released, land ministry data show.  Higher Income  While Asian neighbors wrestle with housing costs propelled
by higher incomes and inflows of capital, in South Korea a
household-debt binge is constraining mortgage borrowing.
Household credit climbed to a record 959.4 trillion won at the
end of last year.  Other measures announced today including a move to lower
borrowing costs on state-supported loans to between 3.3 percent
and 3.5 percent, down from 3.8 percent. The government will help
refinance debt for some people facing credit default.  “A stagnant  property market  may be an increasing risk to
the economy, financial markets and the low-income earners if
such a downturn continues,” Suh said in Seoul today. “We will
help spur the recovery through tax and financial support, while
deregulating some of the rules imposed earlier.”  Ruling and opposition lawmakers have agreed to reinstate a
home-purchase  tax cut , according to their e-mailed statement on
March 17. Still, the Financial Services Commission is not
considering easing debt-to-income and loan-to-value restrictions
on mortgage borrowing, chairman nominee Shin Je Yoon said in
parliament on March 18.  Prices Slipped  Residential  house prices  slipped 0.5 percent in February
from a year earlier, the biggest decline since September 2009,
according to data from Kookmin Bank. Prices fell 0.1 percent in
February from January, an eighth straight monthly drop and the
longest losing streak since 2005, even after the  Bank of Korea 
cut benchmark borrowing costs twice last year.  “My top policy priority is a quick normalization of the
property market,” Suh, the land minister, said in his inaugural
speech on March 12. “Effective policy measures are in urgent
need.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  