-- Stockton Can Stay in Bankruptcy Over Creditor Objections
-- B y   J a r e d   G o y e t t e ,   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-04-02T19:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/stockton-can-stay-in-bankruptcy-over-creditor-objections-1-.html
Stockton,  California , the biggest
U.S. city to file for bankruptcy, won a judge’s permission to
stay under court protection after he found that creditors didn’t
negotiate in good faith with the city.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Christopher M. Klein in  Sacramento 
rejected arguments from creditors including  Assured Guaranty 
Corp. and  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN)  that the city isn’t eligible
for bankruptcy and found that creditors “absented themselves
from all further discussions” with the city before it filed.  “Negotiation is by definition a two-way street,” Klein
said. “You cannot negotiate with a stone wall.”  The city of 296,000, an agricultural center about 80 miles
(130 kilometers) east of San Francisco, is among three
municipalities that have said they will try to force creditors,
including bondholders, to take less than the principal they are
owed. The others are San Bernardino, California, and Jefferson
County,  Alabama .  No city or county since at least the 1930s has used the
power of a  U.S. bankruptcy court  to force a reduction in its
debt principal.  With the bankruptcy petition approved, Stockton can now
turn to the process of negotiating with creditors on a so-called
plan of adjustment. Creditors can argue later that they’re not
being treated fairly, Klein said.  “The city is going to have a difficult time confirming a
plan over an objection and claim of unfair discrimination
without being able to explain that problem away,” he said.  State Court  Without bankruptcy court protection, Stockton’s creditors
would be free to sue the city in state court, where it’s easier
to force asset sales, cuts in city services or a boost in
revenue to pay debt. In bankruptcy, Stockton is shielded from
such tactics.  Before filing for bankruptcy in June, the city asked
bondholders and other lenders owed more than $300 million to
take less than full repayment. The city listed assets of more
than $1 billion and debt of more than $500 million in its
bankruptcy petition.  Stockton rode a surge in new-home construction in the 2000s
before the housing crash set off a wave of foreclosures that
sapped  tax-revenue  gains. It joined cities across the country
using the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  to get out from under billions of
dollars in obligations they couldn’t afford following the
longest recession since the 1930s.  Calpers Negotiations  The city never held talks with the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System , or Calpers, which provides
 retirement plans  for city employees. The biggest U.S. public
pension fund refused to negotiate with Stockton, claiming that
under state law it isn’t authorized to reduce the city’s
contributions to the fund.  Klein said yesterday that Stockton didn’t have an
obligation to negotiate with Calpers because the city doesn’t
intend to impair the pension fund.  “If the city makes inappropriate compromises, the day of
reckoning will be the day of plan confirmation, and that’s
precisely my analysis with respect to the Calpers situation and
the omission of dealing with Calpers,” the judge said.  Calpers Chief Executive Officer  Anne Stausboll  said in a
statement yesterday that the pension fund is pleased with the
ruling.  “Today’s action gives the city the opportunity to propose
a forward-looking plan of adjustment in the bankruptcy case that
will allow them to restore long-term financial stability and to
provide essential services to the Stockton community through the
city’s valued public employees,” she said.  Bankruptcy Requirements  Creditors claimed the city didn’t meet the requirements for
being in bankruptcy. A city must first be insolvent and try in
good faith to negotiate a deal with creditors.  Klein said Stockton met both requirements.  “The city has no choice but to negotiate in good faith
because it desperately needs to adjust debts in a way that
necessarily will force the impairment of contracts,” the judge
said. “It makes no sense to think the city is playing some kind
of game.”  Assured Guaranty, based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , argued in
court papers that the city, in an effort to become insolvent,
manipulated its finances by refusing to raise taxes and limiting
service cuts.  The insurer will be on the hook for tens of millions of
dollars in bond payments if Stockton wins permission to
eliminate the debt.  ‘Falls Short’  Assured said in a statement that the city’s current
proposal to creditors “falls short of the fairness
requirements” of bankruptcy law. When asked about an appeal,
spokesman Jeremy Fielding said the company “will determine our
next steps” after receiving the judge’s written ruling.  “Assured Guaranty has a substantial interest in seeing the
city emerge from its financial predicament as a viable and
sustainable governmental enterprise for the long term,” the
company said. “Assured Guaranty looks forward to the city
working with it and all the other stakeholders on a collective
approach to achieve that goal.”  On the good-faith test, Assured and the other bond insurer
in the case,  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  unit National Public Finance Guarantee
Corp., claim the city wasn’t serious about striking a deal
during months of pre-bankruptcy talks.  Wells Fargo  Franklin’s subsidiary Franklin High Yield Municipal Fund
and Wells Fargo Bank NA filed court papers saying they support
the objections of Assured and National Public Finance.  Stockton is slated to stop paying for retiree health care
on June 30 as part of a spending plan the City Council approved
in June, citing a $417 million unfunded liability. The benefit
had allowed workers employed as little as a month to receive
city-paid health coverage for life for themselves and their
spouses, City Manager Bob Deis said.  “After nine months and millions of dollars in legal fees,
the judge validated what we have been saying from the beginning,
that the city is insolvent and needs the protection of
bankruptcy to adjust its debts,” Deis said in a statement.
“The next steps are to confirm a plan of adjustment through the
restructuring of our debt, begin the recovery process and move
Stockton forward.”  Born in the Gold Rush, Stockton struggled for decades,
relying on tax revenue from farming and shipping at its deep-
water port on the San Joaquin River. A housing boom in the early
2000s brought a surge in revenue as homebuyers, seeking refuge
from soaring prices in  San Francisco  and Silicon Valley, flocked
to Stockton, where starter homes cost around $400,000.  City Construction  The city issued debt to build a gleaming new arena and
ballpark on its riverfront and to buy a new  City Hall  it later
couldn’t afford to occupy.  The Stockton metropolitan area last year had the highest
foreclosure rate in the U.S., affecting one in every 25 homes,
or almost three times the national average, according to
RealtyTrac Inc., an  Irvine , California-based data provider.  In February 2012, Deis announced the city was on the verge
of insolvency from mounting retiree costs, the recession and
accounting errors that overstated revenue. It then began three
months of talks with bondholders and labor unions that failed,
prompting officials to seek bankruptcy.  The case is In re Stockton, 12-32118, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Goyette in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Sacramento,
California, at  jaredmgo@gmail.com ;
 David McLaughlin  in  New York 
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 