-- Suncor Goes Direct to Refiners For Profit Boost
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-04-01T14:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/suncor-goes-direct-to-refiners-for-profit-boost.html
Suncor Energy Inc.’s (SU)  decision to
scrap an C$11.6 billion ($11.4 billion) oil-sands plant shows
Canadian producers are betting they can boost shareholder
returns by shipping crude directly to refineries instead of
investing in costly processing.  Suncor,  Canada ’s largest energy company, abandoned plans
last week with partner  Total SA (FP)  to build the Voyageur upgrader
that would have converted heavy bitumen to a synthetic light
crude, amid rising competition from U.S. oil. Paris-based Total
instead outlined plans to focus on heavy-oil production from its
proposed Fort Hills and Joslyn oil-sands developments, spending
C$15 billion on Canadian energy projects through 2020.  “We can develop Fort Hills and Joslyn without upgrading,”
said Andre Goffart, chief executive officer of Total’s Canadian
unit, in a phone interview from Calgary on March 28. “We are
looking to ship some products to the U.S. Gulf Coast, but also
to  Asia  as well, because we think that Asia in the future will
be an important customer for  oil sands .”  Calgary-based Suncor and Total are among several Canadian
producers eyeing sales of oil-sands crude to refineries on the
U.S. Gulf Coast and in Asia. The raw product can more easily
compete with heavy oils from Mexico and  Venezuela , instead of
facing a tide of cheaper light U.S. supplies.  U.S. light oil production jumped 16 percent to 7 million
barrels a day in 2012, according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration. Increasing production on both sides of the
border caused pipeline congestion late last year that saw
Canadian oil fall to a  discount  of more than $8 barrel for light
oil and more than $40 for heavy oil.  ‘Challenging Economics’  Canadian prices recovered in March due to temporary
production outages in Canada and a seasonal increase in U.S.
demand as refineries return from maintenance, Philip Skolnick an
analyst with Canaccord Genuity Corp., said in a phone interview
from  New York  on March 28.  “A lot of the increase is short term in nature. There’s
going to continue to be a ramp-up in light oil and therefore
that hurts the economics of an upgrader,” Skolnick said. “Most
of the pipelines that are planned, like Keystone XL, are going
to benefit heavy oil more, so that’s another reason that’s going
to make an upgrader less attractive.”  Suncor rose 4 cents to C$30.44 at the close in Toronto on
March 28, following its after-market upgrader announcement a day
earlier, amid a broader decline in Canadian  energy stocks . It
was up 0.6 percent at C$30.62 today.  Costs Surge  “Suncor’s stock moving up may signal people felt that
project may have been marginal to start with,” Leo de Bever,
who oversees C$70 billion in assets as CEO of  Alberta  Investment
Management Corp. including Suncor shares, said in a phone
interview on March 28. “Given the competition for cheap, light
oil, producing a light oil product in Alberta is not going to be
competitive with existing technology.”  Sneh Seetal, a Suncor spokeswoman, didn’t return e-mails
and phone calls seeking comment on the company’s decision to
scrap the upgrader.  Building upgraders in Alberta has become difficult after
costs to build the facilities skyrocketed 70 percent from 2000
to 2008, according to a March 27 report from IHS CERA. Only
three of 11 upgraders that had been proposed before the
recession of 2008 have been built, with the rest having been
scrapped or put on hold, the energy consulting firm said.  A new upgrader needs U.S. oil prices from $86 to $130 a
barrel to break even, according to a March 19 report report by
ITG Investment Research, a unit of the New York brokerage
 Investment Technology Group Inc. (ITG)  That compares with $82 to $100
a barrel for oil-sands projects that produce raw bitumen. West
Texas Intermediate oil futures closed at $97.23 a barrel last
week on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  ‘Highly Refined’  Upgraders that are already built will continue to be
profitable, because they produce a high-quality light oil and
don’t have to pay off construction costs, said Marcel Coutu,
chairman of Syncrude Canada Ltd. Syncrude is one of the largest
and oldest upgrading projects in Alberta, and  produced  104.9
million barrels last year.  “I wouldn’t hazard a guess to what other sources of oil,
be they light shale oil or other oil sands, that we’ll have to
compete with,” Coutu said in a phone interview on March 28.
“We just have a very competitive product that is highly refined
going into refineries that convert it into middle distillate
products like diesel and jet fuel, which continue to be in high
demand.”  Coutu said Syncrude’s future expansion, which won’t come
until next decade, won’t include an upgrader. Unlike its
existing operations, the proposed Aurora South mine would sell
200,000 barrels a day of unprocessed bitumen.  Margin Squeeze  Suncor and  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ)  are two other
companies that own upgraders but are planning future oil-sands
expansions without them. Including its Fort Hills and Joslyn
projects with Total, Suncor is also developing its Firebag and
MacKay River projects to produce raw bitumen. Canadian Natural
is developing several bitumen projects including the Primrose
and Kirby projects in northern Alberta.  “We have too much light, sweet crude - which is what
upgraded synthetic crude effectively is - and if anything we
have too little heavy crude,” Suncor Chief Executive  Steve Williams  said on the company’s Feb. 6 fourth-quarter earnings
conference call. “Our view is that, that will cause a squeeze
on upgrading margins and make it a challenge.”  Stocks Underperform  The company reported a loss of C$562 million in the fourth
quarter, or 37 cents a share, the biggest in at least two
decades after recording a C$1.49 billion charge for Voyageur.
That compared with net income of C$1.43 billion, or 91 cents, a
year ago. Operating earnings fell 30 percent to C$1 billion
while revenue dropped to C$9.44 billion from C$9.91 billion.  “Bay Street’s energy stocks, while ahead on the year, have
underperformed their Wall Street counterparts, hurt by concerns
over future pipeline capacity and competition from growing U.S.
production,”  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce, wrote in a March 28 note.  The 58-company Standard & Poor’/TSX Energy  Index (S5ENRS)  has  risen 
0.4 percent in 12 months through March 28 compared with a 9.4
percent gain for the S&P 500 Energy Index which tracks the share
performance of 43 U.S. energy stocks, according to figures
compiled by Bloomberg.  Canadian Natural is still planning to proceed with a C$5.7
billion upgrader near Redwater, Alberta, though it has
government support and a niche market for its product. The
Alberta government will contribute 75 percent of the bitumen
supply for the upgrader and cover costs of servicing the debt
used to finance its construction.  The facility won’t be competing with rising light oil
volumes because it will produce diesel, in short supply in
western Canada due to growth in the “energy-intensive” natural
resource industry,  Mike Dunn , an analyst at FirstEnergy Capital
Corp. in Calgary, said in a February report.  New upgraders won’t be built until producers “figure out
better ways of doing it, more economical ways,” AIMCo’s de
Bever said. “Maybe it’s not bad that we have a pause.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  