-- U.K. to Avoid Recession as ‘Sunlit Uplands’ Glimpsed, BCC Says
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-04-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/u-k-to-avoid-recession-as-sunlit-uplands-glimpsed-bcc-says.html
The  U.K. economy  will avoid another
recession and exports will help propel a “modest” recovery
this year, according to the British Chambers of Commerce.  The BCC’s gauges of domestic and foreign demand at
manufacturers and services companies all rose last quarter, the
London-based group said in a report today, with the export
measures close to a record.  “Fears of another recession are calmed by our results,”
BCC Chief Economist  David Kern  said. “The economy’s performance
is weak by long-term historical standards. However, while
remaining below trend for some time, growth is likely to stay in
positive territory.”  Britain’s manufacturing slump eased in March and services
continued to expand, economists said in Bloomberg News surveys
before two reports from Markit Economics this week. The  Bank of
England  will leave its target for stimulus unchanged at 375
billion pounds ($571 billion) after a two-day meeting that
starts tomorrow, according to another  Bloomberg survey .  The BCC’s gauge of domestic manufacturing orders rose to 14
last quarter from 3 in the previous three months, while the
export measure increased to 22 from 11. Within services,
domestic orders rose to 11 from 7 and export orders surged to 26
from 18. Most gauges of confidence also improved, with the
outlook for profits at the highest in more than five years,
according to the BCC, which surveyed 7,265 companies between
Feb. 18 and March 11.  “These results provide a glimpse of the as-yet-distant
sunlit uplands of recovery,” said BCC Director-General John Longworth.  In a separate report, Lloyds TSB said its business
confidence index rose to a four-month high of 20 in March from
13 in February. A measure of the outlook for business over the
coming year also improved, to 41 from 32.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  