-- U.K. Replaces ’Failed’ FSA With Prudential Regulatory Authority
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-04-01T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/u-k-replaces-failed-fsa-with-prudential-regulatory-authority.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will today hail the “resetting” of the U.K.’s
financial services regulatory system with a new banking agency
with greater powers to replace an “old failed regime” overseen
by the Financial Services Authority.  The new  Prudential Regulatory Authority  is a subsidiary of
the Bank of England with responsibility for ensuring effective
regulation of firms that manage complex risks on their balance
sheets, Osborne will say. He will reaffirm the government’s
commitment to learning the lessons of the past and protect
taxpayers from  bank failures  in the future.  “The changes coming into effect today are the start of
resetting the system of financial regulation in our country,”
Osborne will say, according to comments issued by his office in
advance. “They do away with the discredited system that failed
to sound the alarm as the financial system went wrong.”  The FSA, the brainchild of then-Chancellor of the Exchequer
 Gordon Brown , was created in 1997 after scandals in the 1990s
such as fraud cases at Barings Plc and Bank of Credit & Commerce
International dented confidence in London’s finance industry.
The scandals of the 2008 credit crunch undid the FSA, however,
as lawmakers criticized the regulator for failing to prevent the
rescues of Northern Rock Plc, Royal Bank of Scotland Plc and
Lloyds Banking Group Plc.  Osborne will speak in central London alongside Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King  at the launch of the new authority.
It is part of a new regulatory system introduced this week which
also includes the Financial Policy Committee, which is
responsible for protecting and enhancing stability as a “macro-
prudential” authority, and the Financial Conduct Authority, to
ensure that financial services businesses advance the interests
of all consumers and market participants.  This new system “puts the  Bank of England  back in charge
and will help ensure a strong, safe and successful financial
system in Britain,” Osborne will say.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  