-- U.K. Financial Companies Seen Hiring 4,000 in First Half
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-04-02T08:29:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/u-k-financial-firms-seen-hiring-4-000-in-first-half-on-sales.html
U.K. financial firms may add 4,000
jobs in the first half of the year, ending three consecutive
quarters of cuts, as companies anticipate increased sales, the
 Confederation of British Industry  said.  Banks, insurers, asset managers and other firms probably
hired 2,000 people in the first three months of 2013 and may add
2,000 in the second quarter, Britain’s biggest business lobby
group and accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, said in a
study published today.  The projected gain compares with the CBI’s prediction in
January for 18,000 job reductions in the first quarter, in the
industry that employs about 1 million people in the U.K. The
reversal comes as some financial firms hire compliance workers
to prevent further scandals such as loan insurance mis-selling
and sanctions violations amid increased regulation and scrutiny.
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Britain’s largest bank by market value, said
last month it would spend an extra $500 million a year on
compliance and legal staff.  “Firms are beginning to sense the prospect of some pickup
of business activity and want to make sure they’re ready to take
advantage of that,”  Matthew Fell , CBI director of competitive
markets told reporters in London. “The picture is becoming a
little clearer on what is to be done on the regulatory front,
and that’s perhaps why we’re seeing some stabilization, some
flattening out.”  Trading Gains  The CBI’s survey found 32 percent more respondents said
trading increased in the three months through March and 27
percent forecast higher sales in the current quarter.  The London-based CBI and PwC surveyed 96 banks, insurers,
customer-owned lenders, investment managers and securities firms
from Feb. 20 to March 7.  The U.K. economy will avoid another recession and exports
will help propel a “modest” recovery this year, according to
the British Chambers of Commerce. The BCC’s measures of domestic
and foreign demand at manufacturers and services companies all
rose last quarter, the London-based group said in a report
today.  Britain’s manufacturing slump eased in March and services
continued to expand, economists said in Bloomberg News surveys.
The Bank of England will leave its target for stimulus unchanged
at 375 billion pounds ($571 billion) after a two-day meeting
that starts tomorrow, according to another Bloomberg survey.  Job vacancies at  London  financial-services companies jumped
76 percent in January as firms sought to hire compliance staff,
according to Morgan McKinley. Vacancies in London’s main
financial district, known as the City, and elsewhere in the
British capital climbed to 2,331 from 1,323 a month earlier, the
recruitment consultant said in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  