-- State Economies Show Most Gains Since Before Recession
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-04-01T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/u-s-state-economies-shows-most-gains-since-before-recession.html
The economic health of 44 U.S.
states improved in the fourth quarter, the most in any period
since 2006, as almost all benefited from growing employment and
personal income.  The gains matched the total in the second quarter of 2006,
more than a year before the 18-month recession began, according
to the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States index.  The improvement reflects continuing growth in the national
economy. President  Barack Obama ’s chief economist, Alan Krueger,
said in an interview this month that he expects a “tailwind”
from housing construction to help propel growth this year.  “Most states are on a recovery track,” said Robert Dye,
chief economist for Dallas-based Comerica Bank, in an interview.
“That reflects broad-based improvements in the economy.”  Only four states --  New Jersey ,  Maryland ,  Wyoming  and  Maine 
-- had declines in the last three months of 2012 compared with
the previous quarter. Arkansas,  Nebraska  and  Delaware  had no
change. The index measures tax collections,  home prices ,
mortgage delinquency, job growth, personal income and
performance of local company stocks.  In the fourth quarter, every state and the  District of
Columbia  had gains in personal income. Every state except
 Connecticut , Nebraska and Maine, had gains in employment. The
number of people employed in the District of Columbia also
declined.  Not Sustainable  States may not continue to improve at the same pace,
according to Chris Mauro, New York-based head of municipal
strategy at RBC Capital Markets LLC. Growth in personal income
was driven by payments such as dividends and bonuses being
shifted to the fourth quarter ahead of expected tax increases,
he wrote in a March 28 report.  “The fourth quarter’s gains are likely unsustainable and
we expect state revenue growth to return to its recent anemic
level in coming quarters,” Mauro wrote.  The BEES index shows state economies strengthening in the
past year. Twenty-nine states, led by energy producers  North
Dakota  and  Colorado  as well as  Michigan , showed improvements to
their economies in 2012 compared with 17 in the prior year.  North Dakota had a 9.8 percent increase in its economic
health last year compared with the year before, boosted by a
13.3 percent increase in personal income and nearly 25 percent
increase in  tax revenue .  ‘Modest Recovery’  “What we’re seeing is the modest recovery in housing and
increase in hiring bolstering the economy,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist with Bloomberg LP in  New York .
“The conditions are in place for the economy to continue
growing around 2 percent, as it has since the start of the
recovery.”  Automatic  federal budget  cuts of $85 billion that started
on March 1 may hurt states’ economic health, said Dye. A
resulting reduction in federal grants to states probably will
lead to job losses, especially in Maryland,  Virginia  and the
District of Columbia, he said.  “We’re still in the middle of that process,” said Dye.
“We haven’t seen the full impact of those job losses.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  