-- Hess Sells Russian Unit to Lukoil for $2.05 Billion
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-04-01T17:45:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/lukoil-agrees-to-buy-hess-samara-nafta-for-2-05-billion.html
Hess Corp. (HES)  agreed to sell Russian
subsidiary Samara-Nafta to OAO Lukoil for $2.05 billion in the
biggest divestiture ever by the New York-based oil explorer.  Hess expects proceeds of $1.8 billion for its 90 percent
stake in Samara-Nafta, the company said in a statement today.
The transaction brings the combined after-tax value of assets
Hess has agreed to sell this year to $3.4 billion.  Hess has been selling  oil fields , storage terminals and
other assets from  Texas  to the  North Sea  as Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer John Hess narrows the company’s focus to crude
exploration and production. The actions by the son of founder
Leon Hess come as the company faces pressure from activist
shareholder Elliott Management Corp. to spin off or sell assets
and replace board members.  The sale “is another positive step in their
restructuring,” Brian Youngberg, an analyst at Edward Jones &
Co. in  St. Louis , said in a phone interview today. “The company
is focused on becoming smaller and more nimble. It was too far-
flung around the world.”  Hess rose 3.3 percent to $73.96 at 1:16 p.m. in  New York .
The shares have increased 40 percent this year.  Hess acquired its stake in Samara-Nafta when it bought a 65
percent interest in Trabant Holdings International for $25
million in 2005. The sale announced today is the largest ever
for Hess, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company, which has been criticized by  Paul Singer ’s
Elliott Management for “unrelenting underperformance,” has
also announced plans to sell its gasoline stations and terminals
business and exit energy trading. Elliot Sloane, an Elliott
Management spokesman who works for Sloane & Co., had no
immediate comment on the announcement.  Simon Kukes, holder of the other 10 percent of Samara-
Nafta, has also agreed to sell to Lukoil,  Jon Pepper , a
spokesman for Hess, said in an e-mail.  Russian Expansion  Lukoil fell 1.3 percent to 1,976.60 rubles at the close of
trading in Moscow. The company is seeking to expand and increase
production after halting oil output declines last year. It won a
state auction to tap Siberia’s Imilor field and is developing
assets in Russia’s Caspian Sea.  Samara-Nafta produces the equivalent of about 50,000
barrels of crude a day, according to a statement from Moscow-
based Lukoil. The purchase price amounts to $3.40 a barrel of
reserves, based on Russian parameters, and the deal requires
approval from the nation’s anti-monopoly agency, Lukoil said.  “We have acquired a quality asset with long-term growth
potential in a region that has some of the most highly developed
infrastructure in the country,”  Vagit Alekperov , CEO of Lukoil
and its largest shareholder, said in the statement.  “The price seems a bit high and reflects Lukoil’s
desperate search for new assets,” Ildar Davletshin, a Moscow-
based oil and gas analyst at Renaissance Capital Ltd., said in a
phone interview. A large number of the company’s fields have tax
breaks as they are depleted and high viscosity, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  