-- Humana Rises as U.S. Reverses Medicare Rate Cut Decision
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-04-02T20:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/humana-among-insurers-winning-u-s-medicare-payment-rise.html
Humana Inc. (HUM)  led medical insurers
higher in trading today after the U.S. government reversed a
decision to cut a key Medicare payment rate, offering them an
increase instead.  Humana rose 5.5 percent to close at $79.11 in New York, and
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  gained 4.7 percent to $61.74, after the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services went public yesterday
with the  decision  to do away with a planned rate reduction.
Instead, insurers will receive a 3.3 percent increase in the
rate that determines the payments they get for running the
government’s Medicare Advantage plans.  Insurers had threatened to reduce benefits in Medicare
Advantage plans if the cut was maintained. While the initial
reduction for insurers was calculated on the basis that doctors’
pay would also be trimmed, Health and Human Services Secretary
Kathleen Sebelius is now directing Medicare’s actuaries to
assume Congress will keep physician fees the same.  “It’s clearly the administration’s position that changed
here,” said  Sheryl Skolnick , an analyst at CRT Capital Group in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , in an interview. “That’s a clear
victory” for health insurers.  Humana said it was evaluating the anticipated effects the
decision and other regulatory changes will have on its Medicare
Advantage offerings for next year.  “We are pleased that CMS has recognized the significant
negative impact the rates initially proposed for 2014 were
expected to have,” the company said in a statement today.  Change Anticipated  Investors appeared to have anticipated the rate change.
About 40 minutes before the reversal’s announcement yesterday
afternoon, insurer shares surged. Humana jumped 8.6 percent in
trading at about 3:40 p.m. UnitedHealth, the largest U.S. health
insurer, jumped 3.1 percent.  “Whenever there’s a major announcement there are of course
some people who anticipate this correctly,” said Utpal
Bhattacharya, an associate professor of finance at Indiana
University in Bloomington. Humana’s trading yesterday “is
suspicious,” he said, because the stock rose almost as much
before the announcement as after.  Humana Revenue  It isn’t clear whether traders learned of the information
before it was announced or if they speculated the industry’s
lobbying would be successful. A spokeswoman for the Securities
and Exchange Commission, Florence Harmon, declined to comment.  The about-face by the Medicare agency came after insurers
and lawmakers complained that the Obama administration relied on
faulty accounting assumptions when it proposed in February to
cut the Medicare Advantage rate by 2.2 percent staring next
year. Medicare Advantage plans are used by about 13.1 million
elderly and disabled Americans.  Humana gets 66 percent of its revenue and 58 percent of
profit from Medicare Advantage, leading the industry, according
to estimates by Cowen & Co. analysts. Minnetonka, Minnesota-
based UnitedHealth and  Health Net Inc. (HNT) , based in Woodland Hills,
 California , each get 25 percent of revenue from Advantage plans.  Health Net gained 2.6 percent in trading yesterday.
 WellCare Health Plans Inc. (WCG) , based in Tampa,  Florida , rose 5.8
percent. Health Net was unchanged at $29.12 today, while
WellCare rose 3.9 percent to $62.57.  Trading Cases  As of the end of last year, more than one in five U.S.
insider-trading cases involved health-care stocks, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology
companies are particularly vulnerable to insider trading because
of the large number of people with insider knowledge of market-
moving events. This can include changes in regulations,
government approvals of drugs, the results of clinical trials,
and acquisition or partnership deals.  “A lot of people are in the know,” Bhattacharya said in a
phone interview. “You don’t have to do anything, just get the
information first.”  The most notable case of late involving health-care stocks
came when the U.S. in November indicted Mathew Martoma, a former
hedge-fund manager at Steven A. Cohen’s SAC Capital Advisors LP.
Prosecutors accused Martoma of helping the firm make $276
million on illegal tips about an Alzheimer’s drug by trading in
shares of Elan Corp. and Wyeth LLC. He has pleaded not guilty to
the charges and is awaiting trial.  The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS,
didn’t respond to a request for comment on the trading activity
in health insurance stocks yesterday.  Today, Health Net increased 4.3 percent to $30.36 while
WellCare climbed 5.6 percent to $63.59.  Medicare Advantage  Medicare Advantage plans are used by people who opt for the
program over traditional Medicare because of added benefits such
as lower out-of-pocket spending and discounts for gym
memberships and eyeglasses. The government  estimates  that it
spent about $136 billion on the plans in 2012.  Combined with other changes to insurers’ Advantage rates,
including cuts previously ordered by the 2010 Affordable Care
Act, Skolnick said insurers should see about a 2.5 percent
reduction in their total payments from the government, 5.5
percentage points better than the initial proposed cut.  “That seems like a manageable set of rates and much more
aligned with expectations,” Skolnick said.  Initial Calculation  Medicare’s initial calculation for the Advantage rate
assumed Congress would let stand a 25 percent decrease in
doctors’ pay, which is a component of reimbursement to the
insurance companies. That trimming of rates to physicians is
required by a provision in a 15-year-old balanced budget deal
that has been overridden by Congress every year since 2002 in a
maneuver nicknamed “The Doc Fix.”  More than 160 lawmakers wrote the Obama administration
asking for the Advantage cut to be reconsidered, according to
America’s Health Insurance Plans, the industry’s Washington-
based lobby group.  “CMS has taken an important step to help stabilize
Medicare Advantage at a time when the program is facing
significant challenges,” Karen Ignagni, the president and chief
executive officer of AHIP, said in a statement.  The Medicare agency said at the beginning of March that it
only assumes current law in all proposed rates. The
Congressional Research Service said in a report about three
weeks later that Medicare had the authority to set Advantage
rates based on the assumption that Congress would pass a “Doc
Fix.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  