-- Tunisia Expects $1.8 Billion IMF Accord by May
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-04-01T10:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/tunisia-expects-1-8-billion-imf-accord-by-may.html
Tunisia expects to sign a $1.8
billion loan accord with the International Monetary Fund by May
to shield the economy from  Europe ’s debt crisis and political
turmoil at home that’s hindering the transition to democracy.  An IMF team will arrive in Tunisia for talks on April 8
before another meeting in  Washington  later this month, Finance
Minister Elyes Fakhfakh said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
Middle East headquarters in Dubai.  The assassination of an opposition leader in February and
the debt crisis in Europe, Tunisia’s main trade partner, have
shaken investor confidence in the North African country more
than two years after a popular uprising that set off a wave of
revolts in the region.  “We are still in this transition process,” the 41 year-
old member of the secular Ettakatol party said. “There are
still some risks so we decided to engage in these negotiations
with the IMF in case there is domestic or external turmoil.”  He said Tunisia and the IMF “are in agreement on about 95
percent of the program” as they work on the final wording of
the accord.  The government expects Tunisia’s economy to expand 4
percent this year compared with 3.6 percent in 2012, propelled
by industries such as chemicals and mining as well as tourism
and agriculture, Fakhfakh said. The budget deficit may widen to
5.9 percent of economic output from 5.1 percent as the
government accelerates spending plans aimed at developing
Tunisia’s interior region to create jobs.  Two Speeds  “In Tunisia there were two speeds of growth, and this is
one of the reasons for the revolution, that the interior region
was behind in terms of development, infrastructure and
investments,” Fakhfakh said. “We decided to increase
investments in those areas.”  The government plans to ask the U.S. Treasury to guarantee
about $500 of bonds this year and may raise the equivalent of
$400 million in Samurai bonds, the minister said. The country
raised $485 million last year in bonds backed by the U.S. Agency
for International Development in July at a coupon of 1.686
percent.  Unrest surfaced during the December anniversary of
Tunisia’s uprising and turned into violent protests after the
killing of Democratic Patriots leader Chukri Beleid on Feb. 6.
That prompted Standard & Poor’s to cut Tunisia’s credit rating
on Feb. 19 for the third time since 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  