-- Turkish Yields Rise as Bank Cuts Repo Funding for Lenders
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-04-01T15:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/turkish-yields-rise-as-bank-cuts-repo-funding-for-lenders.html
Turkish benchmark bond yields
advanced for a second day as the central bank reduced the
liquidity it provides in one-week repurchase-agreement or repo
auctions, and new government debt sales put selling pressure on
bonds.  The yield on two-year  benchmark bonds  jumped as much as
five basis points and closed three basis points higher at 6.38
percent at 5 p.m. close in Istanbul. The lira climbed 0.1
percent against the dollar to 1.8078.  The central bank provided 2.5 billion liras ($1.4 billion)
in its one-week repo auction today, compared with 10.6 billion
liras of total bids from lenders. The Ankara-based bank gave 5
billion liras at its 5.5 percent benchmark interest rate and
also 6.25 billion liras at 7 percent on March 29, in its first
overnight repo funding to primary banks since August. The  cost
of borrowing  in the  interbank market  climbed to its highest
since September at 6.50 percent on March 29 before falling to
5.98 percent today.  “Yields are moving in tandem with the central bank
policy,” Erkin Isik, a fixed-income strategist at  Turk Ekonomi
Bankasi AS (TEBNK) , said in e-mailed comments today. “The central bank
gave only the sufficient amount of liquidity and interbank rates
stayed at 6 percent.”  Turkey ’s Treasury sold a total of 2.72 billion liras of
seven-year floating rate notes at 3.44 percent in an auction
today, up from 3.4 percent in the previous sale on March 18. The
Treasury will sell 14-month zero-coupon bonds and 10-year fixed-
coupon bonds tomorrow as it seeks to raise 14 billion liras from
the domestic market this month.  “It is possible that the Treasury auctions exerted
pressure on the yields,” Ali Cakiroglu, a strategist at HSBC
Asset Management in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.
“Demand in today’s FRN sale was not bad but we have a 10-year
bonds sale tomorrow and we can’t see aggressive positions before
this auction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  