-- Pinnacle Proposes Canada’s Tallest Residential Tower
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-04-01T04:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/luxury-developer-proposes-largest-mixed-use-project.html
Pinnacle International , a Vancouver-
based developer, plans to build the largest hotel and
condominium project in Toronto, the Canadian financial capital
with the most highrises under construction in North America.  Pinnacle’s proposal calls for six highrises, including an
88-story condominium that would be the tallest residential tower
in  Canada ; a 70-story highrise with hotel, and an  office tower 
near the Toronto Star newspaper headquarters on Yonge Street,
according to plans submitted to the city. If built, the combined
6.4 million square feet of space would be the largest
residential mixed-use project in the country, according to  real
estate research firm  RealNet Canada Inc .  The proposed buildings would add to the 158 condominiums
already under construction in Canada’s largest city, says real
estate researcher BuzzBuzzHome. That’s sparked concern that
prices may tumble as new units come on the market later this
year and in 2014. There will be 14,000 new condo unit sales this
year in Toronto, according to Brad Lamb, president of closely-
held developer Brad J. Lamb Realty Inc. That compares with
17,997 new condominium sales last year, according to Toronto-
based researcher  Urbanation Inc.   “Condo prices won’t go up this year,” Lamb said in an
interview at the Bloomberg office in Toronto. “All the high
rise buildings you see around here are all being built in the
next three to four years.”  New condo proposals reached 253,768 units at the end of the
fourth quarter, up 10 percent from a year earlier, Urbanation
said. There were 5,759 low-rise and condo sales in the city in
February, down 15 percent from last year. The average sale price
rose 2.1 percent, according to data from the Toronto Real Esate
Board.  Yonge Street  Pinnacle’s proposed project would add 4,137 units in a
complex that spans two city blocks at 1 Yonge St. and 7 Yonge
St., the base of the longest street in the world. The area
currently houses a parking lot and the Toronto Star building,
where a 10-story office extension is proposed. Pinnacle bought
the two blocks of land for C$250 million ($245.9 million) in
July from Osmington Properties, RealNet said.  “It’s a vibrant neighborhood and we want to continue
growing our waterfront presence,” Anson Kwok, vice president of
sales and marketing at Pinnacle said in a phone interview from
Toronto. “Being at the foot of the longest street in  North
America  is quite attractive. Location is a big one -- we’re
opening up the gateway to the waterfront.”  The firm has developed four towers and about 2,000
residential units in Toronto so far, he said. This proposal will
take two years to be approved, according to Kwok.  The proposal, submitted to Toronto on March 6, is being
examined by city staff and the community before a preliminary
report is produced. Staff will look at the potential impact of
the development on traffic, parking, and infrastructure, said
Allison Meistrich, senior planner the Toronto and East York
districts, in a phone interview last week. The process for
approval of a development in Toronto usually takes about a year,
Meistrich said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  