-- VA Probes $42 Million in Awards Questioned by Congress
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-04-01T04:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/va-probes-42-million-in-awards-questioned-by-congress.html
U.S. lawmakers await the results of
a Department of Veterans Affairs probe into why an agency
employee processed more than 1,500 awards just under a monetary
threshold that would require public disclosure of the contracts.  The inquiry focuses on a staff member who oversees orders
for some VA health facilities in New York and New Jersey and who
processed transactions worth more than $42 million over a
roughly 18-month period. A letter from a House Veterans Affairs
subcommittee said that the purchases ranged in amounts between
$24,500 and $24,980.  Transactions of $25,000 and more are generally required to
be published on a federal government procurement website to
encourage as many bids as possible.  “What is the basis or reasoning for placing multiple
transactions with the same vendor on the same day and keeping
transactions below $25,000?” asked the Sept. 26, 2012, letter
signed by Representative Bill Johnson, the Ohio Republican who
at the time served as the chairman of the subcommittee on
oversight.  Jo Schuda, a VA spokeswoman, said on March 28 that the
department has finished its investigation into the case and is
preparing a response that should be delivered this week.  “We are not commenting regarding any actions taken until
the response is issued,” Schuda said in an e-mail. She declined
to say whether the individual responsible for the transactions
faced disciplinary action.  ‘Fragmented’ Orders  The committee’s letter questioned why so many orders to the
same vendor were “fragmented,” leaving them under the $25,000
threshold. The transactions occurred between Oct. 1, 2010, and
March 18, 2012.  The House panel, when sending its letter, requested a
response from the VA within 20 calendar days. Representative
Jeff Miller, the Florida Republican who chairs the House
veterans committee, expressed disappointment that the agency
hasn’t answered the letter’s questions, more than six months
after it was sent.  “VA owes it to America’s veterans and America’s taxpayers
to engage in an honest conversation about how it spends taxpayer
dollars,” Miller said in an e-mailed statement. “The longer it
takes the department to explain these transactions, the more
suspicious the transactions appear.”  It isn’t clear whether the VA employee whose actions
spurred the investigation made the orders himself or prepared
them on behalf of someone else, according to Johnson’s September
letter. The transactions were linked to the employee’s name in a
contracting database.  Lawmakers’ Concerns  Lawmakers said they were concerned that many of the
transactions were done on the same day with a single vendor, and
potentially violated a federal law requiring agencies to seek
competitive bids for government work, the letter said.  “If true, such actions on the part of VA would appear to
violate the Competition in Contract Act,” Johnson’s letter said.
“This information creates the appearance purchases at VA are
being fragmented, whether intentionally or unintentionally.”  The letter cited 25 purchase orders issued for Bismark
Construction Corp. at $24,900 each, on December 30, 2010, for a
total of $622,500.  It also said the employee in question created 25
transactions for $24,900 each for orders to Kinetic Concepts
Inc., which designs and markets products such as tissue
regeneration technology, on Nov. 9, 2011.  No Contact  James Seeram, president of Newark, New Jersey-based Bismark
didn’t respond to a phone message and e-mail seeking comment
about whether the company was aware of the probe. Mike Barger, a
spokesman for San Antonio, Texas-based Kinetic Concepts, said in
March 29 e-mail that the company hadn’t been contacted by
lawmakers or the VA about the investigation and wasn’t aware of
any “contractual irregularities.”  Dan Gordon, who served as President  Barack Obama ’s top
procurement official until December 2011, said that “multiple
purchases of similar goods or services by the same buyers over a
short period of time, all just below a key threshold amount,
should be viewed as a red flag.”  Gordon is now a procurement law dean at George Washington
University law school in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 Kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  