-- Vermont Insurance-Exchange Rates Show Savings From Health Law
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-04-02T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/vermont-s-first-look-at-insurance-exchange-rates-shows-savings.html
Vermont residents may save money on
medical insurance through subsidized exchange plans under
President  Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act, according to the
first state look at premiums under the 2010 health law.  The Vermont rates provide an initial analysis of how much
health insurance may cost Americans nationwide as the law’s core
provision kicks in next year. In Vermont, a couple earning
$32,000 a year would pay about $134 a month after U.S. subsidies
for a certain level of coverage that would have cost them $248
under the state’s existing program, according to a comparison
document published by the state.  The state has built the insurance exchange for people who
don’t get coverage at their jobs. Federal and state subsidies
are a key part of keeping the new health plans affordable, said
Robin Wood, a spokeswoman for MVP Health Care, a nonprofit
insurer that serves Vermont, in an e-mail.  Basic premiums in the exchange, called Vermont Health
Connect, would be “roughly comparable to what people currently
pay, but for better coverage,” Governor Peter Shumlin, a
Democrat, said in a statement.  Insurers including Aetna Inc., based in Hartford,
 Connecticut , have warned of “rate shock” when customers shop
for plans in exchanges, citing health-law policies that mandate
better benefits and prohibit the companies from refusing to
cover the sick or charging older people more than three times as
much as young adults.  Vermont’s insurance exchange will be served by two
companies, MVP Health, based in Schenectady,  New York , and Blue
Cross Blue Shield of Vermont.  Catastrophic Plan  Without the subsidies, premiums would start at $202 a month
for a single person under 30 buying a stripped-down
“catastrophic” plan sold by MVP Health, according to the
statement released yesterday by Vermont. “Platinum” coverage
for an entire family, the most expensive available, would cost
$1,728 a month from MVP or $1,698 from Blue Cross Blue Shield.  The proposed rates from the two insurers must be reviewed
by state regulators before becoming final in July. The exchanges
are set to open for shopping Oct. 1 for health plans that would
take effect Jan. 1.  Vermont  also intends to be the first state in the U.S. with
a single-payer health-care system, in which the government pays
all of its residents’ medical bills and insurance companies are
unnecessary. The state legislature passed a law in 2011
to steer the state toward adopting such a system in 2017, the
soonest possible under the federal health-care law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  