-- Vivendi Wins Copyright Ruling in Used-Digital-Song Case
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-04-01T22:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/vivendi-wins-copyright-ruling-in-used-digital-song-case.html
ReDigi Inc., an online service that
lets people buy and sell second-hand digital songs, violates the
copyrights of  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Capitol Records, a federal judge
ruled.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in  Manhattan  ruled in
Capitol’s favor without a trial, saying the litigation will
continue to determine whether the site should be shut down and
monetary damages assessed. In a separate ruling, also dated
March 30, Sullivan denied ReDigi’s request to dismiss the case.  Record companies  have sued many online music services to
prevent erosion of sales of CDs and digital songs. Capitol sued
ReDigi last year, claiming that it infringes copyrights by
allowing unauthorized copying of digital music files. ReDigi
argued that it’s protected by the Copyright Act’s first-sale
doctrine, which lets legitimate buyers of music resell it.  “The novel question presented in this action is whether a
digital music file, lawfully made and purchased, may be resold
by its owner through ReDigi under the first-sale doctrine,”
Sullivan said in his ruling. “The court determines that it
cannot.”  ReDigi, based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , argued it makes
no unauthorized copies of songs. The company said it provides
digital music storage and a marketplace for tracks legitimately
bought from Apple Inc.’s  iTunes .  Sale Process  “The technology behind our sale process does not involve
the making of even a single copy,” John Ossenmacher, the chief
executive officer and a founder of ReDigi, said in court papers.  ReDigi said in a statement that the court’s ruling applies
only to its original technology and not to its updated offering,
which it calls ReDigi 2.0.  “ReDigi will continue to keep its ReDigi 2.0 service
running and will appeal the ReDigi 1.0 decision,” the company
said in its e-mailed statement.  Maria Ho-Burge, a spokeswoman for Capitol’s record company,
 Universal Music Group , said the company had no comment on the
ruling.  ReDigi allows users to upload tracks  to its site  where
buyers can download them for 59 cents to 79 cents each. ITunes
charges 99 cents for most tracks and the music companies take
about 70 cents from each transaction. The labels receive no
revenue from a ReDigi resale. ReDigi takes 60 percent of the
proceeds of each sale, according to today’s ruling.  While ReDigi said in court papers that it was protected
from liability by the first-sale doctrine, the label argued that
the online service isn’t selling an original track purchased
from iTunes but rather a digital copy of it.  Capitol is seeking statutory damages of as much as $150,000
from ReDigi for each track infringed. Capitol recordings sold by
by the online service include Coldplay’s “Clocks,” Lady
Antebellum’s “Need You Now” and Nat King Cole’s “The
Christmas Song,” according to the complaint.  The case is Capitol Records v. ReDigi, 12-00095, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  