-- Watchdog Says U.S. Nuclear Regulator Needs Image Polishing
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-04-01T20:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/watchdog-says-u-s-nuclear-regulator-needs-public-image-polished.html
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission’s senior management should focus on polishing the
NRC’s public image and improving interpersonal skills, an
employee survey conducted for the agency’s inspector general’s
office found.  “The majority of participants feel immediate managers do
not possess the people skills necessary to lead,” according to
a report released today with the results of the 2012  survey  on
safety culture and climate at the NRC. Workers are also
“concerned about the relationship of their top leaders with the
NRC’s external image due to the recent events with the former
chairman,” it said.  The NRC was thrust into the spotlight after a triple
meltdown at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant in March
2011 forced regulators to review safety at U.S. reactors. A
public rift between former Chairman Gregory Jaczko and the other
four commissioners brought additional attention to the agency.  Jaczko, who oversaw the agency’s response to the Fukushima
crisis, resigned last year after colleagues said he bullied
employees and created a chilled work environment. Jaczko denied
the accusations.  Focus Groups  Focus groups participating in the survey reported mixed
results. The NRC’s reaction to the Fukushima incident was seen
in a positive light “while the events with the former
chairman” were seen negatively, according to the report.  Towers Watson & Co. (TW) , a New York-based consultant, surveyed
3,755 NRC employees for the inspector general’s office. About 79
percent of those workers participated.  The report, which compared results with surveys conducted
in previous years, said most workers found the agency’s
strengths to be in training, staffing and setting objectives
that employees understand. Still, it found need for improvement.  “While the 2012 NRC data continues to be more favorable
than industry and national norms, the overall results are less
favorable relative to the 2009 survey,” according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Enoch at 
 denoch@bloomberg.net  