-- Wilson Sonsini, Sullivan, Willkie, Arent: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-04-01T13:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/wilson-sonsini-sullivan-willkie-arent-business-of-law.html
Former U.S. Trade Representative Ron
Kirk joined Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP as senior of counsel.  Kirk, who served in the Obama administration until
February, will be based in the firm’s Dallas and Washington
offices and will provide strategic advice to companies with
global interests. Kirk was a member of President Obama’s cabinet
and negotiated trade agreements around the world as the
president’s primary trade adviser.  “We are delighted to welcome Ron to the firm,” Ken Doran,
chairman and managing partner of Gibson Dunn, said in a
statement. “Ron’s role as President Obama’s chief trade
negotiator provides him with keen perspective and credibility
with multinational companies and governments around the world,
and his experience and abilities will prove extremely valuable
to our clients.”  Kirk’s move was reported earlier by the Financial Times.  Law Firm News  Wilson Sonsini Opens L.A. Office with Former Sidley Partners  Five patent-litigation partners left Sidley Austin LLP last
week to join Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati.  Four of the lawyers -- Edward Poplawski, Paul Tripodi II,
Olivia Kim and Sandra Fujiyama -- will open a new office in Los
Angeles for Wilson Sonsini. The fifth, Vera Elson, will be based
in Palo Alto,  California .  Poplawski said in a telephone interview on March 27 that
joining the firm was a “unique opportunity to practice in a
premier law firm, with a rapidly growing presence in Asia and a
stellar worldwide reputation in tech and life sciences.”  Wilson Sonsini has considered establishing a Los Angeles
office “for quite some time,” Chairman Larry Sonsini said in a
statement.  “They are attorneys of outstanding caliber and will mesh
extremely well with our existing top-tier IP practice, which is
a field of critical importance to our clients,” he said.  Poplawski was a member of Sidley’s executive committee and
head of its West Coast intellectual-property practice. He
declined to say whether he was taking any matters that he had
worked on at Sidley with him.  The Los Angeles office should officially open this month,
according to Courtney Dorman, a Wilson Sonsini vice president.  Thomas Cole, the chairman of Sidley’s executive committee,
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the departures.  Deals  Willkie Farr and Sullivan & Cromwell on Genworth Deal  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the life insurer and mortgage
guarantor, agreed to sell its wealth-management unit to a
venture of Aquiline Capital Partners LLC and Genstar Capital LLC
for about $412.5 million.  The sale will yield a loss of about $40 million after tax,
with $35 million recognized in the current quarter, Richmond,
Virginia-based Genworth said March 27 in a statement. The deal
is expected to be completed in the second half of the year,
Genworth said.  Genworth Chief Executive Officer Tom McInerney, who took
over in January, is seeking to simplify the company and bolster
finances after losses tied to insuring U.S. mortgages. Proceeds
from the sale, which includes the Altegris asset manager, will
be kept at the holding company to repay 2014 debt, at maturity
or before, according to the statement.  “This transaction is another step forward in executing our
strategy, by generating capital from a non-core business and
increasing financial flexibility,” Chief Financial Officer
Martin Klein said in the statement.  Genworth’s wealth-management unit oversees about $20
billion in assets and works with more than 6,000 advisers,
according to a March 25 statement. Operating income at the
segment was $55 million in 2012 and $47 million in 2011, the
insurer said in a regulatory filing.  Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP represented Aquiline, a New
York-based private-equity firm investing in financial services,
and Genstar, a San Francisco-based firm investing in middle-
market companies. Sullivan & Cromwell LLP represented Genworth.  From Willkie are partners Jeffrey R. Poss, Barry P. Barbash, Jeffrey M. Goldfarb, Christopher J. Peters, Jordan A.
Messinger, David S. Katz, of counsel Martin R. Miller and
special counsel Kim A. Walker and Jonathan J. Konoff.  From Sullivan & Cromwell are partners Mark J. Menting,
Whitney A. Chatterjee, Matthew M. Friestedt, John E. Estes and
Ronald E. Creamer Jr., along with special counsel Spencer F.
Simon.  Interviews  Cleary’s Buchheit Says Cyprus May Need Second Bailout  Lee Buchheit, architect of debt restructurings in nations
including  Greece , said in an interview with Bloomberg Law that
even with the drastic measures taken, Cyprus may need another
round of restructuring. “I’m not sure this is over,” the
Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP veteran said.  To watch the interview, click here.  News  Jefferies Group CEO Sues to Stop Tribeca Roof Deck Construction  Jefferies Group LLC (JEF)  Chief Executive Officer Richard Handler
sued to stop construction of a roof deck on a building across
the street from his Tribeca penthouse apartment.  Handler, who indirectly owns the penthouse apartment at One
York Street, filed a petition in New York State Supreme Court in
 Manhattan  on March 25 against the city’s building commissioner,
Robert LiMandri, and the owner of 50 Varick Street, seeking to
stop a construction project at that address and have its permits
revoked.  An elevator vestibule for a roof deck and bar area proposed
for 50 Varick Street would block views from the penthouse, whose
owners face “significant noise and light impingements from the
project and future roof deck use as a late night rooftop bar,”
according to the petition.  “The project will significantly obstruct the panoramic
river views from petitioner’s apartment,” according to the
petition. “In addition, use of the building roof deck as an
outdoor event space and its concomitant noise will impair the
use and value of petitioner’s apartment.”  Handler became CEO of  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK)  this month
when the investment firm completed its acquisition of  New York- 
based Jefferies. He still also runs the investment bank.  Jefferies paid Handler $19 million for fiscal 2012 and
approved $39 million in restricted stock awards for the next
three years. The pay package for the year ended Nov. 30 was a 36
percent increase from the year-earlier period and included a $5
million cash bonus, $13 million in stock and a $1 million
salary, the company said in January.  Richard Khaleel, a spokesman for Jefferies, declined to
comment on the lawsuit. The city’s Buildings Department didn’t
immediately return a telephone message left at its press office.  Y. David Scharf, a partner with Morrison Cohen LLP
representing Raesky LLC, didn’t respond to calls seeking
comment. The owner of 50 Varick couldn’t immediately be reached
for comment.  The case is Raesky LLC v. LiMandri, 100490/2013,  New York 
State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Pro Bono Work  Arent Fox Partners Assist in Opening Senior Technology Center  Two partners at Arent Fox LLP were instrumental in the
March opening of the Senior Partner Exploration Center, a site
devoted to helping older New Yorkers learn technology.  Jill Steinberg, a health-care partner in the firm’s New
York office, is a member of the board of directors of Older
Adults Technology Services, or OATS. She said in a telephone
interview March 28 that she believes it is “the first senior
center geared toward technology in the country.”  The new 2,500-square-foot storefront site provides free use
of desktop and laptop computers, Skype connectivity, smart
devices and even gaming consoles for older adults, as well as
classes. Andrew Ross, a construction partner, assisted during
the facility’s design and build-out, Steinberg said.  The center on West 25th Street will also focus on helping
older adults with the intersection of health care and
technology, Steinber said.  In addition to their hours donated pro bono, Steinberg said
Arent Fox contributed funds to the project. She declined to
disclose the amount.  “I’m a health care attorney and interested in
technology,” Steinberg said. “This is like getting fixed up on
a date -- you know when it’s right. It’s a melding of my skills
and my interests. I don’t know if it’s unusual to find this in
pro bono work, but it’s terrific when you do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  