-- Women Tourists Avoid India Following Sexual Assaults, Study Says
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-04-01T05:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/women-tourists-avoid-india-following-sexual-assaults-study-says.html
Safety concerns among women
travelers following a brutal gang rape in India’s capital last
year helped trigger a 25 percent drop in foreign tourist
arrivals in the last three months, a study said.  The number of female visitors to India has fallen as much
as 35 percent since the December assault on a young medical
student in New Delhi, according to the  survey  of 1,200 tour
operators nationwide by  Assocham , one of India’s largest
business lobbying groups. The slowdown, which has reduced
visitors to historic sites such as the  Taj Mahal  in Agra and
Jaipur’s forts as well as the capital, came during the peak
winter season for travel to India.  Struggling economies in Europe and the U.S. were also cited
as a reason for the decline in tourist numbers.  The Delhi rape shocked India and reverberated around the
world, triggering street protests and drawing attention to the
scale of sexual violence against women in the world’s largest
democracy. India’s government has toughened sentences for sexual
assaults amid the public outcry.  Delivering further blows to India’s tourism industry, a 39-
year-old Swiss woman was raped in Madhya Pradesh state last
month, while a British woman jumped out of her hotel in Agra,
telling police she fled fearing an assault by staff.  In  India , a woman was raped every 22 minutes in 2011, the
most recent  National Crime Records Bureau  data shows  Several nations issued travel advisories urging their
citizens to be cautious or avoid traveling to India following
the recent attacks.  Foreign tourists have picked other Asian countries such as
 Malaysia , Indonesia,  Thailand ,  Philippines  and  Vietnam , the
survey said. About 72 percent of the tour operators questioned
said bookings had been canceled, especially from women tourists
from the U.K., U.S., Canada and Australia, according to the
poll.  India’s tourism ministry is seeking to increase tourist
arrivals by 12 percent a year up to 2016 to double foreign
exchange earnings. In 2012, about 6.6 million international
tourists visited India, earning the country $17.74 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  