-- Won Drops on Export Data, Tensions With North Korea; Bonds Fall
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-04-01T07:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/won-drops-on-export-data-tensions-with-north-korea-bonds-rise.html
South Korea’s won fell to a one-week
low after exports barely grew in March and as worsening
relations with North Korea heightened the risk of conflict.
Government bonds dropped.  Overseas sales  rose 0.4 percent from a year earlier, less
than the 1.8 percent gain forecast in a Bloomberg survey, data
showed today. Consumer prices climbed 1.3 percent, the least
since August, according to a separate report. North Korea said
on March 30 that a “state of war” exists with the South and
threatened to shut a jointly run industrial zone in its border
city of Gaeseong. Tensions have been rising since North Korea
detonated a nuclear device in February and the U.S. and South
Korea began military exercises last month.  “A less-than-expected export growth and concerns stemming
from North Korea are both negative for the won,” said Jeon
Seung Ji, analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul. “Still, a
trade surplus and exporters’ dollar sales may keep the won from
falling further.”  The won was 0.3 percent weaker at 1,114.73 per dollar in
Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched
1,116.88, the weakest since March 22. One-month implied
volatility in the currency, a measure of expected moves in the
exchange rate used to price options, increased 47 basis points,
or 0.47 percentage point, to 7.91 percent.  Exports, Inflation  Exports climbed less than economists forecast in March as a
weaker yen made Japanese cars and electronics more competitive
in global markets. Still, South Korea’s imports fell 2 percent
from a year earlier and the trade surplus widened to $3.4
billion from $2 billion in February.  The won strengthened 20 percent against the yen in the past
six months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. South
Korea’s economy expanded last year at the slowest pace since
2009 and President Park Geun Hye’s government has pledged to
unveil new stimulus measures this month after cutting the 2013
growth forecast to 2.3 percent from 3 percent last week.  Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said in Seoul today he’s
concerned how yen weakness may affect Korea’s overseas sales,
adding policy makers will monitor the Japanese currency’s impact
“at all times.”  “The yen’s weakness against the won hasn’t made a
significant dent on Korean economic data, but it will certainly
happen if the trend continues,” said Son Eun Jeong, analyst at
Woori Futures Co. “People expect the economy to get worse and
are waiting for the government’s stimulus measures.”  The yield on the government’s 2.75 percent bonds due March
2018 gained five basis points to 2.57 percent, according to
prices from Korea Exchange Inc.  South Korea’s consumer prices rose 1.3 percent in March
from a year earlier, government data showed today. Economists
expected a 1.8 percent increase, based on the median forecast in
a Bloomberg survey.  The data “may increase speculation that the Bank of Korea
will cut rates soon,” strategists at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) 
wrote in a research note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  