-- WTI Oil Falls as Exxon Shuts Line
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-04-01T20:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/wti-oil-falls-first-time-in-six-days-as-exxon-shuts-line.html
West  Texas  Intermediate oil fell for
the first time in six days and widened its discount to Brent on
speculation that the closure of an  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  pipeline
will increase U.S. inventories.  WTI slipped from the highest price in six weeks as Exxon
shut the  Pegasus pipeline , which moves oil from  Illinois  to the
U.S. Gulf Coast, on March 29 after heavy Canadian crude leaked
in  Arkansas . Exxon hasn’t said when it will reopen. Brent gained
as much as 1.2 percent as the euro strengthened against the
dollar for a third day. The European benchmark’s premium to WTI
widened the most since early February.  “Inventories are going to grow because they can’t continue
to push oil through to the refineries,” said  Gene McGillian , an
analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“We have to see how long it will remain offline.”  WTI for May delivery dropped 16 cents to settle at $97.07 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The contract rose to
$97.23 on March 28, the highest settlement since Feb. 14. The
volume of all futures traded was 10 percent below the 100-day
average for the time of day at 4:19 p.m. The market was closed
March 29 for Good Friday.  Brent for May settlement advanced $1.06, or 1 percent, to
end the session at $111.08 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. Volume was 50 percent below the average
for the time of day. Most European markets and businesses are
closed today for Easter Monday.  Pipeline Bottlenecks  Brent’s premium to WTI widened to $14.01 a barrel after
settling at $12.79 on March 28, the narrowest level since June
25. The $1.22 increase is the biggest since Feb. 8, when the gap
grew to this year’s high of $23.18 after Enterprise Product
Partners LP said on Jan. 31 that capacity will be limited until
late 2013 on its Seaway pipeline to the  Gulf Coast  from Cushing,
Oklahoma, the delivery point for the New York contract.  Oil  inventories  in the central U.S. rose 0.5 percent in the
week ended March 22 to 115.4 million barrels, the Energy
Information Administration, the Energy Department’s statistical
arm, reported last week. Regional supplies were at the highest
level for this time of year in EIA data going back to 1990.  “We’ve been making some progress” in moving inland oil to
the Gulf, said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a
New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy. Pegasus “is a
setback. It will probably heighten environmental scrutiny. It
has greater ramifications.”  Pegasus Pipeline  The 96,000 barrel-a-day Pegasus pipeline will need to be
excavated as Exxon determines what caused the breach, and Exxon
is awaiting regulatory approval to begin excavation work and
repairs,  Alan Jeffers , a company spokesman in Irving, Texas,
said yesterday.  Pegasus, a 20-inch (51-centimeter) line that runs to
Nederland, Texas, from Patoka, Illinois, serves refineries near
the Beaumont, Texas, area close to the Louisiana border, Jeffers
said. There are four plants near Beaumont able to process about
1.4 million barrels a day of crude, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is categorizing
the incident as a “major spill” as it is larger than 250
barrels. It came as  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  is proposing to build the
Keystone XL pipeline to link Alberta’s oil sands with refineries
in the Gulf Coast. Enterprise and  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  switched the
direction of the Seaway line last year to move oil from the
Midwest and Canada to Houston.  Environmental groups such as the National Wildlife
Federation pointed to the rupture of the pipeline as a reason
why President  Barack Obama  should reject Keystone.  U.S. Manufacturing  Futures also dropped as U.S. manufacturing expanded less
than forecast in March. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s
 factory index  fell to 51.3 last month from 54.2 the prior month,
the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. The median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 54. Figures higher than
50 signal expansion. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index decreased
0.4 percent.  “Losses deepened somewhat in conjunction with equity
market weakness after the ISM manufacturing index showed an
unexpected drop,”  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures
Perspective in New York, said in an e-mail.  WTI reduced an intraday decline of as much as 1.3 percent
as the euro strengthened against the dollar. The European
currency reached $1.2868, the highest level since March 26. A
stronger euro and weaker dollar increase dollar-denominated
oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI crude options
expiring in May was 17.4 percent, up from 16.6 percent on March
28. The figures have slipped from 24.7 percent on Feb. 21.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 415,639
contracts at 4:19 p.m. local time. It totaled 385,611 contracts
yesterday, 31 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.72 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  