-- WTI Oil Little Changed; U.S. Crude Stockpiles Seen Rising
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-04-02T12:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-01/wti-drops-for-a-second-day-u-s-crude-stockpiles-seen-rising.html
West Texas Intermediate crude slid
for a second day amid speculation that U.S. inventories climbed
to the highest level in more than 22 years.  Futures fell as much as 0.5 percent in New York. U.S. crude
supplies probably increased  2.3 million barrels  last week,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts before a
government report tomorrow. Prices slipped yesterday after data
showed U.S. manufacturing grew less than forecast in March.
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is developing a plan to repair a damaged
section of the Pegasus pipeline that moves crude to Gulf Coast
refineries. The line was shut because of a leak.  “It is possible to have another sharp build in crude
stocks that could set a bearish tone,” Myrto Sokou, an analyst
at Sucden Financial Ltd. in London, said in an e-mail. “The
weak U.S. PMI data adds some pressure to the oil market, raising
renewed concerns about a possible slowdown in oil demand. Prices
are in consolidation mode, struggling to find some direction
ahead of the U.S. economic releases,” including one today on
factory orders.  WTI for May delivery declined as much as 45 cents to $96.62
a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. The contract was at $96.91 at 1:45 p.m.  London  time.
The volume of all futures traded was 34 percent above the 100-
day average. The contract closed at $97.07 yesterday, the lowest
settlement since March 27.  Brent for May settlement was at $111.51 a barrel, up 43
cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It
climbed $1.06, or 1 percent, to $111.08 yesterday. The volume of
all futures traded was 8 percent below the 100-day average. The
European benchmark grade was at a premium of $14.54 to WTI
futures, growing from $14.01 yesterday.  Pegasus Pipeline  Brent’s premium widened yesterday as the Pegasus shutdown
threatened to exacerbate a glut of oil coming from  Canada  to the
U.S. Midwestern states, depressing U.S. prices relative to
European contracts.  “The weakness in West  Texas  reflects the closing of the
Exxon pipeline and a bit of a pause given the moderate
manufacturing figures that we’ve seen,” said Ric Spooner, a
chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “Any decline
from here, provided we stay above the previous peaks at about
$94, might be more corrective.”  Texas Refiners  Exxon’s 96,000 barrel-a-day Pegasus pipeline line was shut
after a leak was discovered in  Arkansas  on March 29. The line
runs 940 miles (1,512 kilometers) from Patoka,  Illinois , to
Nederland, Texas, and serves refineries around Port Arthur and
Beaumont in eastern Texas.  Four plants near the cities can process about 1.4 million
barrels a day of crude, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The facilities are operated by Exxon,  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , Total
SA and Motiva Enterprises LLC.  U.S. gasoline stockpiles probably slid  1 million barrels 
last week, according to the median estimate of six analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg before an Energy Department report
tomorrow.  Distillate supplies , a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, fell 750,000 barrels, the survey shows.  The industry-funded American Petroleum Institute is
scheduled to release separate inventory data today at 4:30 p.m.
Washington time. The API collects stockpile information on a
voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the Energy Information Administration, the Energy Department’s
statistics unit, for its weekly survey.  Asia Demand  Demand for crude will remain strong from Asian buyers as
the U.S. produces more of its own oil, Saudi Arabian Oil
Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said yesterday in a speech in Doha, Qatar,
carried by the official Saudi Press Agency.  Oil output by Petroleos Mexicanos,  Mexico ’s state-owned
producer, known as Pemex, dropped in March to the lowest since
January 2012, to 2.525 million barrels a day, the company said
in a report yesterday.  Supply from Pemex’s largest field, Ku-Maloob-Zaap, fell 2.5
percent to 845,000 barrels a day, the company said. Pemex sent
1.1 million barrels daily to its exports terminals last month,
according to the report.  Hedge funds and other money managers raised  bullish bets  on
Brent crude for the second week, according data from the ICE
Futures Europe exchange yesterday. Speculative bets that prices
will rise, in futures and options combined, outnumbered short
positions by 130,473 lots in the week ended March 26, up 3
percent from the previous period, the data showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  