-- 18 Accused by U.S. of $200 Million Credit Card Fraud
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-02-05T21:44:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/18-accused-by-u-s-of-200-million-credit-card-fraud.html
A crime ring based in New Jersey
created thousands of fake identities to obtain 25,000 credit
cards and steal more than $200 million in one of the largest
scams of its type, the  Justice Department  said.  Eighteen people engaged in a conspiracy to create thousands
of false identities and credit profiles, burnish their
creditworthiness, and take large loans that were never repaid,
according to a  Federal Bureau  of Investigation arrest complaint
unsealed today in federal court in Newark, New Jersey.  “This is, as far as we can tell, one of the largest, if
not the largest, credit card fraud cases ever prosecuted by the
 Department of Justice ,” U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said at a
news conference in Newark. “We have already documented losses
of $200 million, and that number could quite well go higher.”  The ring used a sophisticated blend of identity theft and
credit card fraud, Fishman said. Millions of dollars were wired
to  Pakistan ,  India , the  United Arab Emirates ,  China ,  Romania ,
 Japan  and  Canada , the FBI claims. The defendants also bought
luxury cars, electronics, spa treatments, high-end clothing and
millions of dollars in gold, according to the FBI.  “The goal is to get credit cards, get the credit limits as
high as possible, then use those credit limits to max them out,
and then walk away,” Fishman said. “A lot of what they did was
very painstaking and very sophisticated and took a long time.”  Jewelry Stores  Thirteen people were arrested today, and authorities
searched 13 locations. They have seized three jewelry stores in
Jersey City. Four people were previously charged, and three
pleaded guilty. Authorities had earlier seized cash, including
$68,000 from a defendant’s stove in Jersey City, and $2 million
in gold from a jewelry store in that city.  Fishman said that credit card companies cooperated
throughout the 18-month probe of a scam that began in 2007 or
earlier. He said prosecutors charged the top operators.  The leaders, Fishman said, were Babar Qureshi, 59, of
Iselin,  New Jersey , and Muhammad Shafiq, 38, of Bellerose, New
Jersey. Eleven live in  New York , six in New Jersey, and one in
 Pennsylvania . Most are Pakistani, and some are U.S. citizens,
Fishman said.  Those arrested today appeared in federal court in Newark
this afternoon. They are charged with conspiracy to commit bank
fraud, and face as many as 30 years in prison.  At the hearing, Assistant U.S. Attorney Zach Intrater said
Qureshi posed a “profound risk of flight,” and U.S. Magistrate
Judge Madeline C. Arleo ordered him detained until a bail
hearing on Feb. 8. Intrater said he has access to “enormous
sums of money” and often travels to his native Pakistan. After
the hearing, Qureshi attorney Paul Casteleiro declined to
comment.  ‘Lower-Level’  “The investigation is continuing,” Fishman said at the
news conference. “There are lots of people with whom these
defendants were working, who have not yet been charged and have
not yet been caught, and may have had lower-level functions.”  After using 7,000 false identities to obtain 25,000 credit
cards, the conspirators ran the scam through real businesses
such as the jewelry stores, and at least 80 sham companies that
used more than 1,800 addresses, according to Fishman and the
FBI.  The network also used black-market businesses known as
“tradeline” providers, according to Fishman. A primary
tradeline is a line of credit in a credit history, which affects
how much a user can borrow. A second type of tradeline allows a
credit card holder to add an authorized user to an account. That
lets an authorized user raise his credit score.  The complaint referred to CC-1, a co-conspirator who e-
mailed a defendant in February 2011 about primary tradelines for
sale.  ‘Ongoing Dialogue’  Fishman said the credit card companies, which he wouldn’t
identify, have “ongoing dialogue every day” with the FBI and
other agencies that helped to build the case. The U.S. Postal
Inspection Service, U.S. Secret Service and  Social Security
Administration  also worked on the case.  “They were working very closely with the FBI and the other
investigative agencies and our office to detect this,” Fishman
said. “They’ve been very helpful in helping us figure out which
credit cards were real and which were not, which accounts were
real and which were not.”  Banks and U.S. investigators give each other leads “all
the time,” he said.  ‘Real Cooperation’  “There’s real cooperation that goes on between the banks
and credit card issuers and  law enforcement  to try to track this
stuff down,” Fishman said.  A Miami computer hacker, Albert Gonzalez, was sentenced in
March 2010 to 20 years in prison for leading the largest U.S.
identity-theft ring, stealing 130 million credit- and debit-card
records from  Heartland Payment Systems Inc. (HPY)  and other companies.  Gonzalez pleaded guilty to thefts from Heartland, 7-Eleven
Inc., Delhaize Group’s Hannaford Brothers Co. and two
unidentified national retailers. Another judge sentenced
Gonzalez to 20 years for stealing 40 million credit- and debit-
card records from retailers including  TJX Cos. (TJX) , OfficeMax Inc.
and BJ’s Wholesale Club Inc. The sentences run at the same time.  The case is U.S. v. Qureshi, 13-mj-8013, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  