-- Accel Said to Seek $450 Million for Europe Venture Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-02-05T19:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/accel-said-to-seek-450-million-for-europe-venture-fund.html
Accel Partners , the investment firm
that backed Facebook Inc. and Groupon Inc., is seeking $450
million for its next European venture-capital fund, according to
two people familiar with the matter.  Accel  London  IV LP expects to hold a first and final close
by March, said the people, who asked not be identified because
the plans are private. The amount sought is less than the $525
million the firm gathered from investors for its  prior fund  in
2008. Rich Wong, a partner at  Palo Alto , California-based Accel,
declined to comment on the fundraising.  The London unit of Accel is part of a small group of
European-focused venture-capital funds to attract demand as
investors have historically opted for U.S.-based teams that can
put their Silicon Valley connections to use. In 2012, there were
84 North America-focused venture-capital funds that raised $19.5
billion, compared with 26 Europe-focused funds that gathered
$2.5 billion, according to data from London-based researcher
Preqin Ltd. Fundraising for venture investing in  Europe  fell
almost 55 percent from 2011, according to the data.  Accel has gained most of its recent acclaim for investments
in the U.S. from its Silicon Valley team. That includes turning
a multibillion dollar profit on an early  Facebook Inc. (FB)  bet as
well as gaining from the initial public offerings of Groupon
Inc., Fusion-io Inc. and Trulia Inc.  Kayak IPO  The London team at Accel profited from last year’s IPO of
Kayak Software Corp. and its subsequent announced sale to
Priceline.com Inc. for $1.8 billion. The unit also backed
Playfish Inc., which was purchased by Electronic Arts Inc. in
2009, and Amobee Inc., bought last year by Singapore
Telecommunications Ltd. Current bets include online lender
Wonga.com Ltd. and music startup Spotify Ltd.  Since 2001, Accel London has raised three Europe-focused
funds ranging in size from $450 million to $530 million. The
firm also has a $65 million fund in  India  and a joint venture
with IDG Capital Partners in  China .  The new fund from Accel London will invest across all
stages mainly in the  information technology , software, Internet
and consumer sectors in Europe and Israel, said one of the
people. It expects to allocate about 75 percent to early-stage
and 25 percent to late-stage deals, according to the second
person familiar with the matter. About 20 percent of the fund’s
capital is expected to go to U.S. deals while the remainder will
be in Europe and Israel, the person said.  The London team lost a member of its investment team last
year, when Adam Valkin left to join General Catalyst Partners, a
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based venture firm. Accel’s website
lists 11 people as part of its investment team in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  