-- Accused Fundraiser Oliver Pan Involuntarily Hospitalized
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-02-06T00:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/accused-fundraiser-oliver-pan-involuntarily-hospitalized.html
Oliver Pan, scheduled to go on trial
yesterday to face fraud charges tied to the campaign of New York
City Comptroller  John C. Liu , has been involuntarily committed
at a hospital, a judge said.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  in New York, who is
presiding over the case, today adjourned the trial until April
15 so he could review reports about Pan’s competency to stand
trial and his ability to participate in his defense.  The judge also set a Feb. 8 deadline for Pan’s doctors to
give him any reports they have about Pan’s mental health and
competency.  “Mr. Pan has been involuntarily committed in connection
with a mental health condition,” Sullivan said in court today.
“He is currently hospitalized and is undergoing treatment of an
undetermined and potentially indefinite duration.”  Pan, 47, was set to go on trial with Jia “Jenny” Hou, 26,
Liu’s former campaign treasurer, on charges they used “straw
donors” to illegally funnel thousands of dollars in campaign
contributions to Liu’s 2013 campaign.  Irwin Rochman, a lawyer for Pan, told the judge he met with
his client and that “he has been coherent, able to converse
with us and talk with us. We see no diminution in his ability to
communicate with us.”  ‘Few Days’  Assistant U.S. Attorneys Brian Jacobs told Sullivan the
government was prepared to go to trial and agreed to any delay
granted by the court.  Hou’s lawyer, Gerald Lefcourt, told Sullivan he and his
client consented to a delay in the trial and didn’t want a
separate trial.  Sullivan said he could appoint his own expert to evaluate
Pan and asked Rochman if he thought his client would be ready to
go to trial sooner than April if his doctors deemed him fit to
proceed.  “We think we’d need a few days,” Rochman said. “After
that, then we’d be prepared to go to trial and it’s our desire
to do so. I can’t get a firm answer until then.”  Sullivan said he would wait to see the report about Pan’s
mental condition.  “I’m not faulting you for not having any firm information
or a crystal ball,” he said.  Both defendants, who have pleaded not guilty, are charged
with conspiracy and wire fraud. Hou is also charged with
obstruction. Each count carries a maximum sentence of 20 years
in prison.  Liu, who is now a candidate for mayor, isn’t accused of
wrongdoing.  The case is U.S. v. Pan, 1:12-cr-00153, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). For Related
News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  