-- Hacking Victims’ Group Urges U.K. to Enact Leveson Rules
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-02-05T14:11:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/hacking-victims-group-urges-u-k-to-enact-leveson-rules.html
Britain should enact a judge’s
proposals for a new press watchdog without making changes to
appease opponents, an advocacy group for victims of voice-mail
interception by  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World told lawmakers.  Justice Brian Leveson, who oversaw a yearlong media-ethics
probe, said in November Britain should create an independent,
voluntary regulator backed by law and empowered to issue fines.
The recommendations are already a “minimum compromise” between
the public’s right to privacy and tabloids’ free speech, Brian
Cathcart, the director of  Hacked Off , said today in  London .  Leveson “created a coherent package,” Cathcart told
Parliament’s Culture, Media and Sport Committee in testimony.
“If you start picking out a piece here and a piece there, it
won’t work; the whole package should be non-negotiable.”  Leveson’s  1,987-page report  has divided lawmakers who must
decide its fate. U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , who ordered
the inquiry, has said he doesn’t support a law underpinning the
new regulator, unlike Liberal Democrat Deputy Prime Minister
 Nick Clegg  and the opposition  Labour Party .  Leveson said a regulator that’s formally recognized by law
and empowered to issue fines of as much as 1 million pounds
($1.57 million) for serious infractions may discourage
misconduct in the future. Newspapers that declined to join the
regulator may also set themselves up for higher “exemplary”
damages in civil cases brought by victims, Leveson had said.  The new regulator “needs to be strong and robust” to
withstand challenges from the press, Cathcart said. “The best
way to do that is with a statute.”  Cameron told newspaper editors in his Downing Street office
in London on Dec. 4 that they need to design a regulator
sufficiently independent to placate those calling for full
implementation of Leveson’s recommendations.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , who testified before
Leveson, closed the News of the World in July 2011 in response
to public anger over the hacking scandal. News Corp., based in
 New York , has spent more than $315 million on civil settlements,
legal fees and costs of closing the title.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  