-- ADM Earnings Exceed Estimates on Record Soybean Capacity
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-02-05T21:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/adm-profit-beats-estimates-after-soybean-processing-margins-gain.html
Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. , the
world’s largest corn processor, reported fiscal second-quarter
profit and revenue that topped analysts’ estimates as its U.S.
soybean-crushing operations ran at record capacity.  Earnings excluding inventory gains and other items was 60
cents a share in the three months through December, the Decatur,
Illinois-based company said today in a statement. The average of
11 estimates compiled by Bloomberg was for 58 cents. Sales
increased 6.9 percent to $24.9 billion, exceeding the $22.7
billion average of seven estimates.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Patricia Woertz  said
in the statement that ADM fully utilized its oilseed-crushing
capacity in North America to meet “strong” global demand. The
 margin,  or spread, between prices for soybeans and products such
as oil and meal that are derived from the commodity rose 77
percent in Illinois in the year through Jan. 31, the latest data
from the U.S. Department of Agriculture show.  “Oilseeds was driven by continued strong demand in the
U.S. and better than expected demand out of Asia,”  Ann Gurkin ,
a Richmond, Virginia-based analyst for Davenport & Co. who has a
buy rating on ADM, said in a telephone interview today.  ADM rose 3.3 percent to $29.38 in New York.  Net income rose to $510 million, or 77 cents a share, in
the quarter from $80 million, or 12 cents, a year earlier.
Operating profit for ADM’s oilseeds segment almost doubled to
$411 million.  River Levels  The agricultural services business, which trades and
distributes agricultural commodities, saw operating profit
increase 32 percent to $317 million, including a $62 million
gain from ADM’s stake in Australian grain handler GrainCorp Ltd.
The unit’s performance exceeded Gurkin’s estimates on “good
transportation management,” even as the drought in the U.S.
lowered water levels in the Mississippi River, she said.  Earnings at the sweeteners and starches segment increased
29 percent as industry capacity constraints and higher corn
costs supported higher selling prices, ADM said. The company
produces high-fructose corn syrup, the price of which rose 11.5
percent from a year earlier as processors were able to pass on
higher corn costs,  Farha Aslam , a New York-based analyst for
Stephens Inc., said in a Jan. 30 report.  Corn-processing operating profit was $3 million, compared
with a loss of $129 million a year earlier. Lower gasoline
demand and ethanol imports from Brazil have created excess U.S.
inventory of the fuel additive and contributed to negative
margins, ADM said.  GrainCorp Bid  ADM, which generates most of its sales domestically and has
the majority of its assets in the U.S., is expanding in other
countries by opening a soybean-crushing plant in Paraguay and in
October making an unsolicited bid for  GrainCorp . ADM raised its
stake in the Australian grain handler to 19.9 percent in
December and increased its offer to A$2.8 billion ($2.9
billion). The Australian company rejected the bid as too low.  Since the rejection, the two companies have had “no
conversations” and there’s no update on the proposed deal,
Woertz said on a conference call with analysts today.  ADM has aligned its financial reporting with the calendar
year and started its fiscal 2013 on Jan. 1. The second-quarter
results reported today comprise part of an abbreviated,
 transitional financial year  of July through December.  The company plans to restart a “modest” share buyback
program in the first quarter and allocate $1 billion for capital
expenditures in 2013, according to a slide presentation on its
website today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  