-- Taiwan’s Inflation Slowed to 11-Month Low in January
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-02-05T02:03:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/taiwan-s-consumer-prices-declined-to-11-month-low-in-january.html
(Corrects headline to say inflation slowed.)  Taiwan’s inflation slowed the most in
nearly a year, increasing the central bank’s scope to hold
interest rates to boost growth.  Consumer prices  rose 1.15 percent in January from a year
earlier, after climbing a revised 1.6 percent in December, the
statistics bureau said in Taipei today. The median of 15
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  was 1.4 percent.  The easing supports central bank Governor Perng Fai-Nan’s
decision to hold the  benchmark rate  at 1.875 percent in December
after inflation slowed from a four-year peak in August. Perng
begins a fourth five-year term at the end of the month, with
data last week showing the economy expanded more than estimated
in the fourth quarter as exports recovered.  “As the output gap will remain negative in the next one to
two quarters, inflation will remain benign,” Ma Tieying, a
Singapore-based economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd., said
before the report. “The central bank will be allowed to keep
monetary policy accommodative.”  The Taiwan dollar rose 0.3 percent to NT$29.58 against its
U.S. counterpart in Taipei yesterday, the biggest gain since
Sept. 14, according to Taipei Forex Inc. The currency has
weakened almost 2 percent this year.  The Lunar New Year celebration, which typically drives up
costs of food and clothing, was in January last year. It is
being observed in February this year.  Core consumer prices , a category excluding vegetables,
fruits, fish and energy, advanced 0.33 percent from a year
earlier. Wholesale prices, which track the cost of goods sold to
retailers and producers, fell 3.81 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  