-- Mali’s Mines Minister Says Gold Production Unaffected
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-02-05T14:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/mali-s-mines-minister-says-gold-production-unaffected.html
The war in Mali spared its gold mines
operated by companies including  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) , because
98 percent of the operations are in the south and away from any
fighting, Mines Minister Amadou Baba Sy said.  Gold production grew to 50 metric tons last year from 46
tons the year before, Sy said in an interview in Cape Town
today. A plan to support smaller companies to start producing
will push output to 100 tons within two or three years, he said.  “The crisis hasn’t affected mining at all,” Sy said.
“The insecurity which we’re experiencing is mainly in the north
of the country.”  French and West African troops have been battling northern
Islamist insurgents for almost a month. The rebels occupied two-
thirds of  Mali , which vies with Tanzania as  Africa ’s third-
biggest gold producer, after soldiers ousted the government in
March.  At least 13 international companies were engaged in gold
exploration and production in the West African country in 2010,
according to a U.S. Geological Survey Report.  Randgold’s Morila mine, co-owned with  AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd. (ANG) , Africa’s biggest gold producer, and the government,
produced more than a third of Mali’s output in 2010, according
to the USGS.  Mali’s government is in “very advanced” talks to finalize
a bauxite mining agreement with London-listed  Eurasian Natural
Resources Corp. (ENRC) , Sy said. The government is promoting bauxite,
uranium and iron ore development as it seeks to diversify its
mining industry, he said.  ENRC should pay for a railway line into neighboring  Guinea ,
which will allow it to ship bauxite, an aluminum ingredient, and
iron ore, Sy said.  “I myself have asked that the mining agreement be linked
to the development of railway infrastructure,” Sy said.
“What’s holding us back a bit, what we really need is railway
infrastructure, because we can’t export iron and bauxite very
well without a developed railway network. That’s our priority at
the moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  