-- Allergan Says Judge Erred in Allowing Investor Suit
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-02-05T20:45:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/allergan-argues-judge-erred-in-letting-investor-suit-proceed.html
Allergan Inc. (AGN)  investors should be
barred from seeking to hold directors responsible for a
$600 million penalty the maker of the wrinkle smoother Botox had
to pay over illegal marketing of the drug, the company’s lawyers
told  Delaware ’s high court.  A judge erred in allowing Allergan shareholders to proceed
with a lawsuit that accuses the company’s board of failing to
properly oversee executives who marketed Botox for ailments that
hadn’t been approved by regulators, Allergan’s attorneys argued
before the  Delaware Supreme Court  today. The company pleaded
guilty to a criminal charge over the marketing in 2010.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Travis Laster concluded in
June that investors had amassed enough evidence about directors’
knowledge of the illegal sales effort to press ahead with their
claims. Allergan’s attorneys contend Laster should have followed
a federal judge’s lead and thrown out the case.  “This is a case that should only be decided once,”  Mark
Perry , a Washington-based lawyer for Allergan, argued today.
“There’s no reason to allow re-litigation.” The court said it
would rule later on the case.  Wrinkle Treatment  The arguments before the Delaware Supreme Court come as
 Irvine , California-based Allergan reported fourth-quarter
earnings today. Botox, Allergan’s best-selling product,
generated more than $1.7 billion in sales last year, about
equally divided between uses for medical purposes and wrinkle
treatment, according to the company’s earnings release. The
company is projecting as much as $2 billion in 2013 sales.  Last month, the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration   approved 
Botox for use in adult patients suffering from overactive
bladders. It was the eighth condition for which Botox, based on
a purified form of the  botulinum  toxin, has been approved.  The drugmaker has launched an acquisition push over the
last four months. It bought  Map Pharmaceuticals (MAPP)  Inc. in January
for $958 million to gain an experiment inhalable migraine
treatment and paid $350 million in November to acquire a unit
from SkinMedica Inc.  Carlsbad, California-based SkinMedica’s products include a
prescription treatment for reducing female facial hair and
lotions to reduce the appearance of wrinkles.  Botox Sales  The company also is planning to sell its obesity-treatment
unit early this year, Chief Executive Officer David Pyott said
today.  Allergan’s marketing efforts came under scrutiny in 2007,
when federal prosecutors began reviewing Botox sales. They
started the probe after  whistle-blowers  claimed the company was
using illegal marketing tactics to turn the medication into a
blockbuster drug.  Allergan officials agreed in September 2010 to plead guilty
to a charge of misbranding Botox by promoting it for unapproved
uses and to pay a total of $600 million in fines and damages.  The drugmaker agreed to pay $375 million in criminal fines
and $225 million to resolve civil claims filed by the U.S.
 Justice Department  over Botox’s marketing campaign.  Prosecutors  alleged  Allergan executives pushed its sales
force to market the anti-wrinkle drug for headaches, pain,
muscle stiffness and juvenile cerebral palsy. At the time of
those sales, the FDA hadn’t approved Botox as a treatment for
those ailments.  Marketing Missteps  Although doctors may prescribe drugs for uses not approved
as safe and effective by government regulators, companies are
forbidden to market them for off-label uses.  In the wake of the company’s guilty plea, two pension funds
who invested in the drugmaker sued in Delaware seeking to hold
directors accountable for the company’s marketing missteps. The
funds’ derivative suit would return any recovery from insurance
covering board members to the company.  A separate set of Allergan shareholders sued the company’s
board in federal court in  California  over similar claims about
the illegal marketing campaign. A judge later threw that case
out.  Allergan’s lawyers told the appeals court today that Laster
should have considered himself bound by his federal colleague’s
ruling since the two derivative suits were “materially
identical,” according to court filings.  Sister States  Under the U.S. Constitution, state courts are required to
give “full faith and credit” to final judgments from sister
states or federal courts to promote judicial economy, Perry said
today. “This is a case about federalism, about the respect that
must be offered to other courts,” the company’s lawyer added.  The company’s position drew support from the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce and the Washington Legal Foundation, which filed
briefs supporting arguments that Laster should have deferred to
his federal colleague.  A lawyer for the pension funds countered in her argument
that Laster correctly found the California shareholders didn’t
adequately represent all Allergan investors in the case that got
thrown out and the suit fell into an exception to the legal rule
requiring judges to defer to earlier rulings.  “I don’t believe there’s an absolute ban because another
court rendered a decision,”  Pam Tikellis , a Wilmington,
Delaware-based lawyer for investors.  Tikellis noted in court filings that because the Botox off-
label marketing plan was part of the company’s “strategic
plan,” directors knowingly approved the illegal sales and
facilitated them by providing staff and funding for the program.  Allergan’s lawyers countered in their court filings that
board members never approved unlawful sales tactics for Botox
and enacted policies to “prevent inappropriate marketing.”  The case is Pyott v. Louisiana Municipal Police Employees
Retirement System, No. 380, 2012, Delaware  Supreme Court 
(Dover).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  