-- Tallink Falls Most in 14 Months on Data: Tallinn Mover
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-02-05T16:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/tallink-falls-most-in-seven-weeks-on-data-tallinn-mover.html
AS Tallink Grupp , the largest Baltic
ferry company, fell the most in 14 months in Tallinn trading
after reporting passenger and cargo volumes fell in January.  The shares declined 3.7 percent to 88 euro cents, the
biggest one-day fall since November 2011. The  OMX Tallinn stock
index , in which Tallink has a 32.7 percent weighting, fell 1.7
percent to 755.33.  Tallink, which transports passengers and cargo mainly
between the Swedish, Finnish and Estonian capitals, said today
overall passenger volume fell 14 percent in January from a year
earlier. The number of transported cargo units dropped 14
percent, the company said. The decline was a result of fewer
trips due to vessel reassignments to other routes and scheduled
ship maintenance, Tallink said.  “The Estonia-Finland route and the Estonia-Sweden route
maintained their efficiencies in terms of passengers per trip,”
 Marek Randma , head of Baltic equity research at Swedbank AB in
Tallinn, said in an e-mailed note. “While Tallink had less
capacity available on the Finland-Sweden route, the 20 percent
decline in passengers was also affected by the launch of the
Viking Grace ship in mid-January by Tallink’s largest
competitor”  Viking Line , he added.  Swedbank will keep its buy recommendation for the stock at
the target price of 1 euro as the January data “didn’t have a
large impact on the company’s outlook,” Randma said.  The stock has gained 14 percent since it said on Dec. 13
that Baltic Cruises Holding LP, a subsidiary of the CVCI Growth
Fund II managed by Citigroup Venture Capital International,
bought a 15.7 percent stake. An agreement gave Baltic Cruises
the right to buy more shares without the consent of other large
shareholders until April 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  