-- Ally Financial Posts Profit as Vehicle Sales Gain
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-02-05T13:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/ally-financial-posts-profit-as-vehicle-sales-gain.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the biggest U.S.
auto lender, swung to a fourth-quarter profit as more consumers
went shopping for cars and trucks.  Net income was $1.4 billion compared with a loss of
$206 million a year earlier, the Detroit-based company
said today in a statement. Core pretax income was $19 million,
compared with a loss of $172 million a year earlier. The U.S.
owns 74 percent of closely held Ally, which doesn’t report
earnings per share. The quarter included three months in which
annualized  vehicle sales  hovered near their best pace since
2008.  Chief Executive Officer Michael Carpenter, 65, is selling
assets to repay Ally’s $17.2 billion federal rescue during the
credit crisis that gave the government a controlling stake. He’s
narrowing the firm’s focus to auto loans and U.S. retail banking
while working to protect Ally from claims tied to its
Residential Capital unit, which went bankrupt because of losses
on subprime home mortgages.  General Motors Co. (GM)  agreed last year to purchase Ally’s
international auto-finance businesses for $4.2 billion. As part
of the GM deal, Ally promised not to compete for three years
with the units being sold or to poach employees.  Ally, formerly known as GMAC Inc., was owned by GM until
2006, when the automaker sold 51 percent of it to Cerberus
Capital Management LP. The U.S. took a controlling stake in
return for a package of financial aid designed to keep credit
flowing to the auto industry and preserve jobs.  Carpenter’s plan for repaying the U.S. has included an
initial public offering, which was put on hold until ResCap’s
status is closer to resolution. Investors have objected to some
terms of ResCap’s  bankruptcy  that were intended to cap Ally’s
liability.  Ally’s No. 1 rank in U.S. auto lending is being challenged
by  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the fourth-largest bank by assets and
already the biggest in home mortgages. Data from Experian
Information Solutions Inc. show San Francisco-based Wells Fargo
with 5.9 percent of the market for the third quarter, compared
with 5.5 percent for Ally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rick Green in  New York  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  