-- Amazon Debuts Virtual Currency for Purchases on Kindle
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-02-05T21:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/amazon-debuts-virtual-currency-for-purchases-on-kindle-fire.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest
online retailer, plans to introduce virtual currency that can be
used for purchases on the Kindle Fire tablet to entice more
developers to create programs for the device.  Starting in May, consumers will be able to use Amazon Coins
to buy applications and virtual merchandise sold within games,
the Seattle-based company said today in a statement. The company
will give customers “tens of millions of dollars” worth of the
currency, which will be accepted in the  Amazon Appstore .  Amazon has been targeting developers to improve its app
store, giving programmers the ability to make more engaging
games and help it chase  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s lead in the tablet market.
Apple’s share of the market slipped to 44 percent from 52
percent in the fourth quarter, from a year earlier, while
Samsung’s share more than doubled to 15 percent, according to
researcher IDC. Amazon’s market share slipped to 12 percent from
16 percent.  “The Kindle Fire user base is simply under-utilizing the
available apps, and this is an attempt to light a fire under
those users and create some momentum in downloads and usage,”
said  Brian Blair , an analyst at  Wedge Partners  in  New York .
Blair doesn’t have a rating on the stock.  ‘Substantial Opportunity’  Developers will continue to get the 70 percent revenue
share from purchases made with the coins. After the coin
giveaway ends, customers will be able to buy the tokens using
Amazon accounts, the company said.  “Amazon Coins is an easy way for Kindle Fire customers to
spend money in the Amazon Appstore, offering app and game
developers another substantial opportunity to drive traffic,
downloads and increase monetization,” the company said.  Amazon has released tools that let developers add more
features to games for its tablet, including tracking high scores
and monitoring awards won during play. The company also rolled
out in-app purchases in April -- enabling programmers to charge
for digital content and subscriptions within applications.  In-app features provide extra revenue for developers, which
take a 30 percent commission from every in-app purchase on
Amazon’s site.  Even with its new features, Amazon is playing catch-up with
Apple and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android mobile operating platform.
Amazon currently has more than 68,000 apps in its store,
compared with 4,000 when the store debuted in March 2011, the
company said. Google and Apple have about 700,000 apps apiece in
their stores.  “We do not expect Amazon Coins to drive tremendous
growth,” Kerry Rice, an analyst at Needham & Co., said in an e-
mail. “The best way for Amazon’s Appstore to compete with those
of Google and Apple is to have more apps,” said Rice, who has a
hold rating on the stock.  Amazon shares rose 2.7 percent to $266.89 at the close in
New York. The stock has risen 6.4 percent this year, compared
with a 6 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  