-- Anadarko Profit Exceeds Estimates on Increased Production
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-02-05T21:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/anadarko-profit-exceeds-estimates-on-increased-production.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , the second-
biggest U.S. independent oil and natural gas producer by market
value, reported fourth-quarter profit that exceeded analysts’
estimates and output that surpassed its own forecast.  Net income was $203 million, or 40 cents a share, compared
with a net loss of $358 million, or 72 cents a share, a year
earlier, The Woodlands, Texas-based company said in a statement
yesterday. Excluding one-time items such as writing down the
value of certain assets, per-share profit was 20 cents more than
the 71-cent average of 28 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Fourth-quarter sales volumes rose 8.5 percent from a year
earlier to the equivalent of 741,000 barrels of oil a day. That
exceeded the company’s Oct. 29 forecast for daily sales of
711,000 to 730,000 barrels during the quarter. Output surged in
the Wattenberg field of  Colorado , Eagle Ford Shale in Texas and
Marcellus Shale of  Pennsylvania .  “They’ve been surprising to the upside regularly now,”
said  James Sullivan , an analyst at Alembic Global Advisors in
 New York  who has an overweight, or buy, rating on Anadarko
shares and owns none. “It’s a good quarter, it’s kind of an on
pace quarter.”  The company’s proved reserves totaled the equivalent of an
estimated 2.56 billion barrels of oil at the end of 2012,
according to the statement. That’s up from 2.54 billion barrels
at the close of 2011. The company said about 46 percent of its
proved reserves were liquids at the end of 2012, with 54 percent
being natural gas.  Africa Exploration  Anadarko remains on track to meet a goal of having 3
billion barrels of oil equivalent of proved reserves by the end
of 2014, Chief Executive Officer Al Walker said in the
statement.  Anadarko is exploring in locations including the  Gulf of
Mexico  and off the coast of  Africa . The company said it has
drilled a development well at its Lucius project in the Gulf,
finding 910 net feet of so-called oil pay, which Sullivan called
a “pretty good result.”  In  Algeria , Anadarko said it has increased security and
also expects to see initial oil output in the first quarter from
a facility at the El Merk complex. The company had some
unsuccessful wells outside of the U.S., including Barracuda-1
off the coast of  Mozambique , according to an operations report
on its  website .  The company said in December it had agreed to work with  Eni
SpA (ENI)  to build a liquefied natural gas plant in Mozambique to
possibly begin exporting fuel in 2018.  Mozambique Sale  Anadarko is in the process of marketing a 10 percent
working interest in an area off the coast of Mozambique, which
would reduce its holding to 26.5 percent from 36.5 percent,
Walker said on a conference call with analysts and investors
today. The company may look to have a transaction by the time of
a final  investment decision  expected around the end of 2013,
Chief Financial Officer Bob Gwin said on the call.  “Our view was to finally formalize the process, invite
some people in that we thought could in fact be good partners
for us,” Walker said. Anadarko is early in a “quiet
marketing” of the stake, he said.  The company also said it may look to sell Brazilian assets,
as well as a stake in its Heidelberg project in the Gulf of
Mexico.  The company’s average sales price for crude dropped to
$97.74 a barrel in the fourth quarter from $104.82 a year
earlier, while its average gas price declined to $3.28 per
thousand cubic feet from $3.43 a year earlier.  Anadarko’s revenue fell 11 percent from a year earlier to
$3.41 billion in the fourth quarter.  Anadarko rose 2.6 percent to $82.60 at the close in New
York.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  is the largest U.S. independent oil and gas
producer by market value. Independent  oil companies  don’t own
refineries or a chemical business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  