-- Land Disputes Seen Raising Mining Companies’ Financial Risk
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/land-disputes-seen-raising-mining-companies-financial-risk.html
Land-right disputes are creating
financial risks for mining companies and investments including
hydropower plants and palm-oil plantations, according to
analysis by consultancy Munden Project.  Companies investing in land with insecure property rights
may face rising operating costs or be forced to abandon running
operations due to local opposition, Munden wrote in a report for
 Rights and Resources Initiative , a Washington-based group that
seeks to improve land rights for local communities.  Investor interest in land was triggered by a 2007-08 jump
in  food prices , and long-term trends driving deals are rising
commodity prices and growing demand for biofuels and timber, the
Land Matrix research group wrote in an April report.
International investors are focusing on the poorest countries
with weak land-rights security for deals, the group said.  “Land acquisitions are being announced at a breakneck pace
as companies look to produce more food, wood fiber, minerals and
energy,” wrote Munden, which has offices in New York. “Our
initial examination shows the potential for bottom-line
financial damage to investors.”  Financial risks include construction delays, loss of
insurance coverage and cash flow loss due to suspended
operations, according to Munden. Disruptions such as road blocks
and occupations may hurt the commercial viability of projects,
while governments may rescind companies’s access to land as a
result of popular pressure, it said.  Real Risks  “The assumption that there’s very low counterparty risk
means these major mining companies have access to low-cost
capital,” Andy White, coordinator of the Rights and Resources
Initiative, said by phone. “If the real risks were factored in,
that would result in higher costs of political-risk insurance
and higher cost of capital.”  Most parts of the developing world have customary tenure
that pre-dates the modern nation state and has functioned for
many generations, according to Munden. Emerging markets are a
“mixed bag” regarding land rights and record keeping, and in
most cases public records of property ownership contain little
or no reference to customary arrangements, it said.  Land rights in many emerging markets are “dysfunctional to
the point” that ownership may be granted to an investor without
the knowledge of tens of thousands of people who live and depend
on the land, according to the analyst.  “External claims to land can ignite conflict if local
constituencies feel that their property rights, whether
considered in legal or customary terms, have been ignored or
abrogated,” Munden wrote. “Losses really pile up however when
discontent is left to fester, leading to mass actions like
roadblocks, repeated sabotage and increasingly violent
conflicts.”  Emerging Markets  The financial risks may be significant enough to change the
cost-benefit analysis for investments in emerging markets,
according to Munden.  Munden calculated the costs of delays or project withdrawal
at the construction or operational stage for investments ranging
from $10 million to $3 billion.  For a $10-million project with a three-year duration,
abandoning the investment during the operational phase could
increase costs more than 25 times, the consultancy said. For a
$3-billion investment over 15 years, delays could double the
cost, while withdrawal from an operational investment might
increase costs fivefold.  Munden performed five case studies, including on the
shutdown by  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  of its aluminum smelter in
India’s Odisha state after the government rejected the company’s
plans to secure bauxite from the Niyamgiri hills, citing
concerns it would affect local tribes and wildlife.  The consultancy also studied a hydropower investment in
Chile that was abandoned following opposition by local people,
including the shooting of a subsidiary manager, and an
investment to develop land in Liberia for oil-palm and rubber
plantations that has been repeatedly disrupted by land disputes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  