-- Landmark Visit by Ahmadinejad Is Test for Egypt’s Mursi
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-02-05T17:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/landmark-visit-by-ahmadinejad-is-test-for-egypt-s-mursi.html
(Corrects to most populous Arab nation in seventh
paragraph.)  Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 
broke more than 30 years of political stalemate with  Egypt ,
arriving in the Sunni Muslim country on a historic trip that may
create new challenges for his Islamist Egyptian counterpart.  Ahmadinejad’s visit for a summit of Islamic nations makes
him the first Iranian leader to visit Egypt since the 1979
 Islamic Revolution , and comes at the tail-end of a conflict-
fraught presidency that deepened his nation’s divisions with the
West. The two men embraced on the tarmac of Cairo’s airport and
exchanged kisses on the cheek before holding brief talks that
dealt with regional issues including the Syrian conflict.  Shortly after his election, Mohamed Mursi had visited
Tehran in a trip seen domestically as helping Egypt’s first
freely chosen civilian president to reclaim the political clout
the nation had lost under his ousted predecessor  Hosni Mubarak .
Since that visit, Mursi has faced opposition mount against him
as the economy stagnates and public anger grows over a lack of
jobs after the uprising.  The visit by Ahmadinejad, whose nation is under
international sanctions for its nuclear program, highlights the
balancing act Mursi faces. The Egyptian leader has been eager to
reaffirm his commitment to the security of the Arab Gulf states
whose support and goodwill is key to propping up the economy.
Egypt’s net international reserves fell to $13.6 billion in
January, their lowest level in at least 15 years, according to
central bank data issued today.  Foreign Policy  The Muslim Brotherhood, which fielded Mursi for office,
“never really endeavoured to make any extensive changes in
 foreign policy ,” American University in Cairo political
scientist Ashraf el-Sherif said by phone. The visit is
“symbolic,” he said.  Even so, it offered new ammunition for Mursi’s critics. The
Salafi Dawa, a leading clerical body of ultraconservative Sunni
Muslims, urged that the Shiite Iranian president not be allowed
to visit mosques or other venues of importance to Shiite Muslims
and stressed its objection to him visiting  Tahrir Square , the
epicenter of the uprising against Mubarak.  Egypt, as the most populous Arab nation, must remember its
“commitment to protect all Sunni nations from any political,
cultural or military infiltration,” the group said in a
statement reported on the state-run Ahram Gate website,
stressing this was a national duty and a campaign pledge by
Mursi.  Alleged Violations  It said Ahmadinejad must be confronted with alleged
violations against  Sunni Muslims  in  Iran , as well as the
country’s position on the Syrian crisis and its support for
Bashar Assad’s regime.  El-Sherif said the protest was mainly an issue of
“political propaganda” by Islamists who seek to challenge the
Brotherhood for dominance in parliamentary elections expected in
a few months.  The Iranian leader was to meet with the top cleric at Al-
Azhar, the Sunni Muslim world’s pre-eminent religious
institution, the state-run Middle East News Agency reported.  Egyptian officials have been careful to couch the current
visit as one by a leader attending the Organization of the
Islamic Conference summit.  Foreign Minister Mohamed Kamel Amr said an improvement in
Egyptian-Iranian relations would be left to “circumstances,”
and that Cairo’s bilateral relations with any nation would not
come at the expense of security of the Gulf Arab nations, the
state-run Middle East  News Agency  reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  