-- Anglo’s Carroll Says Platinum Will Be Successor’s Main Challenge
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-02-05T13:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/anglo-s-carroll-says-platinum-will-be-successor-s-main-challenge.html
Cynthia Carroll , the  Anglo American
Plc (AAL)  chief stepping down in two months, said her successor’s main
challenge will be returning the company’s platinum unit to
profitability after strikes last year wiped out earnings.  “We’re going to be shutting down shafts, we’re going to be
shutting down operations, that’s not easy,” Carroll said today
in an interview in  Cape Town .  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani  will succeed Carroll in April, taking the reins of a
company that lost almost a quarter of its value since her
arrival in March 2007. Anglo has suffered cost blowouts at its
Minas-Rio iron-ore project in  Brazil , while platinum production
slumped last year amid strikes and spiraling operating costs.  “We need to recognize and tackle the enormous economic
challenges the platinum sector faces,” Carroll said at a
conference earlier today. Anglo plans to invest 100 billion rand
($11.2 billion) in the next decade in platinum as it reorganizes
assets in an industry “in crisis,” she said.  The company’s platinum unit, the world’s largest producer
of the metal, yesterday posted a full-year loss and kept its
dividend suspended. The company last month proposed the halt of
four mine shafts to curb costs.  Slowing Growth  Platinum was one of seven metals and minerals singled out
by Carroll as “core” to the business as she pursued plans to
double output across all units by 2020. As  Europe ’s financial
crisis took hold and Chinese growth slowed, several divisions
struggled as commodity demand dropped, weighing on prices.  Anglo said Jan. 29 it will write down $4 billion from the
value of its Minas-Rio project and raise spending for a sixth
time, to $8.8 billion. The development has suffered licensing
delays and budget overruns since Anglo bought it in 2008 at a
time when commodities were nearing their peak.  “We’ve gone through the worst time,” Carroll said today.
“We had 330 permits and licenses that we had to get for Minas-
Rio and we got all but 17. We’ve gone through a tough time from
the operational side.”  The company has said the project, which spans the eastern
Brazilian states of  Minas Gerais  and  Rio de Janeiro , would boost
its total iron-ore production by at least 55 percent. It will be
a “legacy” of Carroll’s time at Anglo, she said today.  “If I could do it all over again, I would’ve had many more
conversations and try to explain what the challenges are and how
we’re going to overcome those challenges and how I’m going to
take this organization forward,” she said. “I was so focused
on turning this company around, but I knew we had to take some
tough action.”  The CEO, whose resignation was announced Oct. 26, was the
first woman and non-South African to head the company. She moved
to Anglo after almost two decades at  Canada ’s Alcan Inc., where
she rose to become president of the primary metals group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  