-- Lance Armstrong Continues Virtual Strava Races as Some Seek Ban
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-02-06T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/armstrong-maintains-strava-presence-as-cyclists-seek-online-ban.html
Lance Armstrong  can continue to
compete against other cyclists, as long as it’s only on the
Internet.  Michael Horvath , chief executive officer of the cycling
website Strava, said he has no plans to ban Armstrong, who was
stripped of his seven Tour de France titles for doping, from
posting rides.  Armstrong said last month he had cheated by using drugs
through most of his cycling career. Some other Strava users have
called for his banishment from the site.  “We want to be careful not to become a police state,”
Horvath said in a telephone interview. “We are not going to say
who can use Strava and who can’t.”  In three years, San Francisco-based Strava Inc. has become
a popular online social network for endurance athletes,
especially for cyclists looking to compete without actually
racing against each other in an organized event. Armstrong, 41,
has used the site since 2011 and holds more than 150 “King of
the Mountain” titles -- known as KOMs -- or running “course
records” on Strava.  Using a variety of GPS-based training applications, Strava
users can create online “courses” by marking start and finish
points. The fastest riders to complete the various routes are
listed on leaderboards for each segment.  On the site, Strava lists five things its users, or the
“community,” stand for. Among them, Strava says, users “earn
our spots on the leaderboards through clean competition.”  That’s where the issue comes in with Armstrong, Strava user
Jacob Berkman says.  ‘Ban Him’  “Strava owes it to its community of clean athletes to
adopt a general policy for doping violators, and in the
meantime, strip Lance of his ill-deserved KOMs, and ban him from
its service.” Berkman wrote in an October 2012  blog entry . That
month, the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency released a 200-page report
with 1,000 pages of supporting evidence on Armstrong’s drug use.  “He just doesn’t deserve to be recognized as an athlete,”
Berkman said in a telephone interview.  Armstrong had 10,156 followers on  Strava  as of yesterday.
He doesn’t follow anybody on his own.  Mark Fabiani , one of Armstrong’s attorneys, said the
cyclist declined to comment on the Strava issue.  Horvath said the company has no plans to adopt a policy
against cyclists who have been banned for doping or other
offenses.  ‘Polarizing’ Issue  “As far as we know, Lance isn’t doing anything to violate
our terms of use,” he said. “It’s polarizing for sure, but
this is not what Strava is about. If they feel any user is
abusing the system, the community can voice what they think
about it instead of us doing it. That’s how we prefer it.”  On Strava, Armstrong defends his Tour de France victories
in his profile description.  “According to my rivals, peers, and teammates I won the
Tour de France seven times,” is how he describes himself.  Chris Phipps, a 43-year-old San Francisco property manager
and amateur cyclist, is another user who would prefer not to
have Armstrong or other suspended riders in the Strava
community.  “I really don’t think guys who are serving doping
suspensions should be on Strava either,” Phipps said in a
telephone interview. “They’re known cheaters. You assume
everybody on Strava is being honest. If they’re serving a
suspension, they need to go away and have a low profile.”  Armstrong Support  Not everybody is in favor of banishing Armstrong.  Penn Henderson, a 40-year-old sales and marketing director
for a Keauhou Bay, Hawaii-based ocean cruise company, is one of
the few Strava users whose name is listed above Armstrong’s on
the site. Over a six-week period last year, Henderson swapped
KOM titles with Armstrong, who often trains in Hawaii.  After Armstrong posted the fastest time on a  4.3-mile climb 
in Captain Cook, Hawaii, with an average speed of 14 miles per
hour, Henderson topped Armstrong by 21 seconds with an average
speed of 14.3 MPH.  “We’ve never met,” Henderson said in a telephone
interview. “I would just see him riding past me in the other
direction. It’s not like he’s making money from his Strava KOMs.
Personally, I’d be bummed if Strava kicked him off. Where does
that stop?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  