-- Asia Leads Rout in New Dollar Bonds as 79% Drop: Credit Markets
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-02-05T09:53:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/asia-leads-rout-in-new-dollar-bonds-as-79-drop-credit-markets.html
Asia  is leading the worldwide retreat
in newly issued corporate bonds after surging issuance and a
strengthening global economy spurred some investors to favor
equities.  Almost 79 percent of the dollar bonds sold in January by
companies from Asia outside  Japan  lost money by the end of the
month, from 1.3 percent a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 52 percent of new
European deals and 46 percent in the U.S.  Bond buyers’ appetite for debt is stretched after companies
sold $419.8 billion of debentures in all currencies, a record
for the month, Bloomberg data show. About $2.6 trillion was
added to the value of equities worldwide last month as
confidence mounted that global economic growth is accelerating.
Investors put almost three times more money into stock funds
than debt in the period, according to EPFR Global.  “Fund managers might be getting more cautious because
there’s a fair bit of indigestion and they’re also worried about
the potential reversal of flows from credit to equities,” said
Suanjin Tan, a Singapore-based fixed-income portfolio manager at
BlackRock Inc., which oversees $3.8 trillion. “We’ve seen too
much, too fast, both in terms of supply and rich valuations.”  Stocks Advance  Demand for company debt in the second half of last year
pushed spreads close to the narrowest ever, squeezing potential
returns for 2013. Investors sought refuge in the notes as
central banks cut  interest rates  to record lows to boost growth
and yields on the safest government debt dropped below zero.  The extra yield that fund managers demand to hold global
company bonds instead of benchmark government debt fell to 1.42
percentage points on Jan. 10, from 2.36 percentage points on
June 5. The spread has since widened to 1.48 percentage points
as buyers start to sell, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.  Stocks in the world’s developed countries, posted the best
start to a year in two decades, with the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
equities in 24 markets rising 5 percent in January.  “The balance does seem like it’s swinging in favor of
equities,” said Tai Hui, the Hong Kong-based chief market
strategist for Asia at JPMorgan Asset Management Asia Inc. “A
lot of investors are starting to think they need to take on more
credit risk to generate the same return.”  Credit Risks Increase  Elsewhere in credit markets, a Federal Reserve survey shows
U.S. banks expect  credit quality  to rise in 2013 after they
eased standards on loans for autos and businesses of all sizes.
A gauge of corporate credit risk in  Europe  rose to the highest
level in eight weeks on renewed concern that the region’s
sovereign crisis is worsening. Catalent Pharma Solutions Inc. is
said to be seeking to decrease the rate it pays on two term
loans.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, rose 0.86 basis point to 16.86 basis points.
The measure widens when investors seek the perceived safety of
 government securities  and narrows when they favor assets such as
corporate bonds.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, climbed four basis points to a mid-price of
90.3 basis points, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings dropped 1.5 to 116.5 at 9:50 a.m. in
 London . In the Asia-Pacific region, the Markit iTraxx Asia index
of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside Japan advanced two
basis points to 118 basis points.  Spanish Premier  Mariano Rajoy  is facing opposition calls to
resign amid contested reports about illegal payments, while
Deutsche Bank AG said this year’s rally in Italian and Spanish
bonds may falter as  Italy ’s Silvio Berlusconi narrowed the
front-runner’s lead before elections this month.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Bonds of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  were the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers,
accounting for 3.7 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Lending Standards  Banks anticipate credit improvements in most major loan
categories this year, the Fed said yesterday in its quarterly
survey of senior loan officers.  Business lending standards were “eased somewhat for all
firm sizes” and banks “again eased standards on auto loans,”
the central bank said in its report. Standards for mortgages and
credit card loans were little changed, the survey said.  Catalent is seeking to decrease the rate on a term deal
maturing in 2017 to 325 basis points more than the London
interbank offered rate, with a 1 percent floor on the benchmark,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction, who
asked not to be identified because terms are private.  The Blackstone Group LP-controlled provider of development
services to the pharmaceutical industry also is seeking to cut
the rate on a loan due 2016 to 350 basis points more than Libor,
with no floor on the benchmark, the person said.  Record Issuance  In  emerging markets , relative yields climbed 6 basis points
to 275 basis points, or 2.75 percentage points, according to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index . The measure has
widened from 265.8 at year-end.  Of the record $23.4 billion of dollar debt issued by firms
from  China  and  Indonesia  to  South Korea  in January, $18.5
billion had dropped in value by the end of the month, according
to prices compiled by Bloomberg. In the same period last year,
about $150 million, or 1.3 percent, of the $11.9 billion of
dollar notes sold in the region fell, the data show.  Bonds issued by  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) , controlled by  Li Ka-shing , Asia’s richest man, were the worst performers. The
5.375 percent notes, which were priced at par on Jan. 16,
tumbled to 91.9 cents on the dollar as of Jan. 31, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. Cheung Kong officials couldn’t be
reached for comment on the bond trading.  High-Yield Bonds  In Asia excluding Japan, junk-rated securities  lost  less
than investment-grade notes. Speculative-grade bonds in the
region retreated 0.51 percent in January, compared with a loss
of 0.53 percent for their higher-rated counterparts, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Asia Credit Index.  Asian high-yield notes also outperformed investment-grade
debt last year, gaining 20.4 percent versus the 11.3 percent
 return  on higher-rated bonds. Speculative-yield, or junk, bonds
are rated lower than Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB-
by  Standard & Poor’s .  Of the $107 billion of dollar debt issued by U.S. companies
last month, about $49 billion fell by Jan. 31, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s more than 20 times higher than the
declines a year ago, when $1.5 billion out of $73 billion of
bonds fell.  In Europe, $14.9 billion of the $28.6 billion of dollar-
denominated debt issued last month dropped by the end of
January, the data show. A year earlier, $1.1 billion of $25.6
billion of bonds sold, or 4 percent, declined.  ‘Great Rotation’  Mounting confidence in the global economy is likely to help
stocks more than bonds, which have benefited from years of
government stimulus. Equity funds attracted $18.7 billion in the
week to Jan. 30, adding to talk of a “great rotation” from
fixed income, Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global said in
an e-mailed statement on Feb. 1.  U.S. employers added 157,000 workers in January, following
a revised 196,000 gain the month before and a 247,000 surge in
November, the Labor Department said last week. In China,  service
industries  grew at the fastest pace since August, while a report
yesterday showed European  investor confidence  surged to the
highest in more than 1 1/2 years.  “With roughly 50 new deals from which to choose, many
investors just haven’t had the time to look at new credits and
new structures,” said Mark Reade, a Hong Kong-based credit desk
analyst at Credit Agricole CIB. “With U.S. data generally
constructive” and “some early signs of a rotation into
equities, the performance of credit has lagged.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  