-- Stocks Rebound With Oil While Treasuries, Yen Retreat
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-02-05T21:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/asian-stocks-decline-from-18-month-high-as-yen-gains-on-europe.html
Stocks (SXXP)  rallied, with benchmark
indexes rebounding from the worst losses of the year, as more
companies posted improving earnings and Dell Inc. agreed to the
largest leveraged buyout since the financial crisis. Oil gained,
while the yen weakened and Treasuries slid.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1 percent to
1,511.29 at 4 p.m. in New York, posting its biggest gain in a
month and erasing most of yesterday’s 1.2 percent drop. Ten-year
U.S. note yields jumped five basis points to 2.00 percent. The
yen declined at least 0.6 percent against its 16 major peers
after Bank of  Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said he will step
down next month. Oil rose after its biggest loss in two months.  Stocks jumped after slumping yesterday on renewed concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis will intensify. Companies from Computer
Sciences Corp. and  Estee Lauder  Cos. in the U.S. to Munich Re
and  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  in Europe rallied after  posting results 
that beat estimates. Data today showed service industries shrank
less than initially estimated in Europe while growing more than
economists forecast in the U.S.  “It’s looking like we’re getting into a ‘buy on dips’
mentality as people try to increase their positioning,” Rex Macey, who oversees $20 billion as chief investment officer at
Wilmington Trust Advisors in Atlanta, said in a telephone
interview. “People have thought, ‘Gee, I need to be in the
market.’ But they’ve been waiting for a buying opportunity and
now they may be getting nervous that may not materialize and
some money’s flowing.”  Market Movers  The S&P 500 has rallied 6 percent in 2013, reaching a five-
year high last week, as U.S. lawmakers reached a budget
compromise and companies reported better-than-estimated
 earnings . The gauge is less than 4 percent below the record
1,565.15 it reached in October 2007. The Dow Jones Industrial
Average is about 1.2 percent from its all-time high set in the
same month.  Computer Sciences rallied 9.2 percent, the most in the  S&P
500 (SPX) , after also increasing its 2013 forecast and saying “our
turnaround is tracking to plan.” Estee Lauder jumped 6 percent,
the most since August, after the maker of Mac cosmetics and
Clinique skin products topped the average estimate for adjusted
earnings by 10 percent and lifted its profit forecast for the
year.  Earnings Season  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. climbed 3.3 percent after the
world’s largest corn processor reported better-than-forecast
earnings and revenue as its U.S. soybean-crushing operations ran
at record capacity.  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , owner of the KFC and Pizza
Hut fast-food chains, fell 2.9 percent after saying profit this
year will be less than it previously expected as a probe into
its chicken suppliers hurt sales in  China .  More than 20 companies in the S&P 500 were scheduled to
report quarterly results today. Earnings per share beat the
average analyst estimate at 74 percent of the 281 companies that
released results so far in the reporting season, according to 
data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The Institute for Supply Management’s  non-manufacturing
index , which covers about 90 percent of the economy, fell to
55.2 in January from 55.7 the prior month. The median forecast
of 76 economists projected the index would reach 55. Readings
above 50 signal growth.  Dell advanced 1.1 percent after the world’s third-biggest
maker of personal computers said it is going private in a deal
valued at $24.4 billion. Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dell 
and Silver Lake Management LLC will pay $13.65 a share, the
companies said today in a statement.  ‘Long-Term Appetite’  “These are indications that there’s long-term confidence
in the economy and the markets,” Macey said of the Dell LBO.
“It signals there’s a long-term appetite for stocks because
they’re going to have to exit at some point.”  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  slid 11 percent and extended its two-day
drop to 23 percent, the most since the market crash of 1987. The
U.S. is seeking as much as $5 billion in penalties from McGraw-
Hill and its Standard & Poor’s unit as punishment for inflated
credit ratings that Attorney General Eric Holder said were
central to the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression. Moody’s Corp. tumbled 8.8 percent and has lost 19
percent in two sessions.  Two shares advanced for every one that fell in the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index. Munich Re, the world’s largest reinsurer, rose
3.9 percent after proposing to raise its dividend. ARM Holdings,
whose chip designs power Apple Inc.’s iPhone and iPad, climbed
4.4 percent as fourth-quarter sales rose more than analysts
predicted.  European Movers  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)  rallied 17 percent in  London  as the
U.K.’s second-largest pay-television provider said it’s in talks
with Liberty Global Inc. on a “possible transaction.”  Royal KPN NV sank 16 percent as the Dutch phone company
reported an unexpected loss and said it plans to sell 4 billion
euros ($5.4 billion) of shares to strengthen its finances.  The Markit iTraxx Europe index of credit-default swaps
linked to 125 companies dropped three basis points to 115,
signaling an improvement in creditworthiness.  Italian, Spanish and Portuguese bonds rebounded following
losses yesterday. Italy’s two-year note yield slid 10 basis
points to 1.64 percent after earlier reaching 1.77 percent, the
highest since Jan. 3.  Yen Weakens  The yen slid 1.4 percent to 93.64 yen per dollar and fell
1.8 percent versus the euro. Shirakawa told reporters in  Tokyo 
that he would step down on March 19, earlier than his previous
plan for an April 8 departure.  Oil climbed 0.5 percent to $96.64 a barrel in New York,
recovering some of yesterday’s 1.6 percent drop. The S&P GSCI
index added 0.4 percent as 11 of its 24 commodities increased,
led by energy products and cocoa.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost the most in a week,
dropping 0.5 percent as Asian markets slumped following
yesterday’s retreat in the U.S. and Europe.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of companies listed
in Hong Kong sank 2.8 percent, the biggest decline since July,
led by China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. on a plan to sell
shares. The Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.2 percent. Chinese
companies traded on the mainland are priced at the biggest
premium to Hong Kong-listed counterparts since Oct. 9, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil ’s Bovespa lost 0.2
percent, while the Micex increased 0.2 percent in  Russia .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  