-- MasterCard Doubles Dividend, Sets $2 Billion Buyback Plan
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-02-05T14:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/mastercard-doubles-dividend-sets-2-billion-buyback-plan.html
MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the second-biggest
U.S. payments network, doubled its quarterly dividend to 60
cents a share and approved a stock-repurchase program of as much
as $2 billion.  “Our strong financial performance allows us to increase
the return of cash to shareholders,” Chief Executive Officer
 Ajay Banga  said today in a statement. “We remain focused on
executing our strategy and growing our business.”  MasterCard posted fourth-quarter profit last week that beat
analysts’ estimates as customers made more purchases. Banga, 53,
is fending off competitors  Visa Inc. (V)  and Shanghai-based China
UnionPay as the company seeks a larger share of the electronic
payments-processing market. Banga is targeting  developing
countries  for growth amid a consumer shift from cash to plastic.  MasterCard, based in Purchase,  New York ,  rose  1.4 percent
to $521.60 at 8:22 a.m. in early trading in New York. The shares
gained 4.7 percent this year through yesterday.  The company will pay the dividend on May 9 to holders of
record of its Class A and Class B common stock as of April 9,
according to the statement.  This is the second time that the MasterCard board has
doubled the firm’s dividend in the past year. Shareholders
received a 15-cent quarterly payout between 2007 and last
February, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The previous
dividend was 9 cents a quarter, the data show.  Buyback Plan  Visa, the biggest payments network,  boosted its quarterly
dividend  to 33 cents from 22 cents in December, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Foster City , California-based
company had increased the payout from 15 cents the previous
year.  MasterCard’s board authorized the firm to repurchase as
much as $2 billion of Class A stock, according to the statement.
The share repurchase program will begin once MasterCard
completes its current $1.5 billion plan, which had about $440
million remaining as of Jan. 25, the company said.  MasterCard increased 2012 profit by 15 percent to $2.8
billion compared with a year earlier. Shares  jumped  32 percent
for the year, more than doubling the 13 percent gain posted by
the 70-company  Standard & Poor’s 500 Information Technology
Index. (S5INFT)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  