-- Australia Beach Towns Have Highest Mortgage Defaults, Fitch Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-02-05T13:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/australia-beach-towns-have-highest-mortgage-defaults-fitch-says.html
Australia ’s tourist and coastal areas
had some of the highest levels of mortgage delinquencies, while
city centers had the lowest rates,  Fitch Ratings  said.  The Sunshine Coast and Gold Coast in Queensland state were
among regions with the highest number of home loan payments more
than 30 days overdue as of Sept. 30, the ratings company said in
a statement. Parts of inner Sydney, Perth and  Melbourne  were the
best performers, Fitch said. Across Australia, overdue home-loan
payments dropped to 1.2 percent as of Sept. 30, compared with
1.6 percent six months earlier, Fitch said.  A  cash rate  matching a half-century low helped boost  home
prices  by 1.8 percent in January from a year earlier, after a
0.4 percent decline in 2012, according to the RP Data-Rismark
home value index. The central bank yesterday held the benchmark
 interest rate  at 3 percent, while signaling it has room to cut
further, as the local currency remains elevated.  “Coastal regions that rely on tourism are less affected by
monetary policy and more by the high Australian dollar,” James
Zanesi, Sydney-based associate director at Fitch, said in the e-
mailed statement.  Investment property loans, concentrated in tourist areas
and inner cities, fared similarly, Fitch said in a separate
statement. Coastal areas including southwest Western Australia
state, the  Sunshine Coast  and  Gold Coast East  were among the 20
regions with the highest value of home loans more than 90 days
late. Loans in inner Sydney and inner Melbourne were among the
best performers, beating the national average of 0.68 percent.  Investment properties had 1.51 times the number of payments
more than 90 days late than mortgages backed by owner-occupied
properties between March and Sept. 30, the company said.  “Investment property loans will have a higher probability
of default in an economic downturn, as borrowers will try harder
to protect their primary residence than an investment
property,” Zanesi said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  