-- Austria Has $27 Billion at Risk Through Bank Assistance
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-02-05T16:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/austria-has-27-billion-at-risk-through-bank-assistance.html
Austria has 19.8 billion euros ($27
billion) at risk because of capital injections and guarantees
given to the nation’s banks, the finance ministry said today.  The amount, equivalent to 6.6 percent of the Alpine
republic’s gross domestic product, is split into 8.1 billion
euros of equity-like capital injections and 11.7 billion euros
of guarantees for bonds or risky assets, the ministry said in a
 statement  on parliament’s website. The government has so far
paid out 1.27 billion euros because of guarantees.  Austria’s deficit widened beyond the European Union’s 3
percent target last year because it provided additional aid to
three ailing lenders hit by Greece’s debt swap and by bad loans
in eastern  Europe . The risks its banks pose prompted Standard &
Poor’s to strip it of its top debt grade last year, and Moody’s
Investors Service to give a negative outlook to its AAA rating.  Nationalized Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG received
the most capital aid, totaling 1.85 billion euros. Next in line
were  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  with 1.75 billion euros
and  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS)  with 1.25 billion euros,
according to the statement.  KA Finanz AG, the bank managing the risky assets of
nationalized Kommunalkredit Austria AG, received the most
guarantees, measuring 6.9 billion euros, the ministry said. KA
Finanz lost 1.03 billion euros on Greek government bonds and
credit default swaps written on  Greece  last year.  Only Bawag PSK Bank AG, the Austrian lender controlled by
two U.S. private-equity funds, has pledged to partially repay
the 550 million euros in aid it received by the end of June, the
ministry said. The country is trying to recoup some of the money
by selling units of Kommunalkredit and Hypo Alpe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  