-- Baidu Falls as China Web Competition Saps Growth: New York Mover
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-02-05T04:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/baidu-profit-jumps-36-as-china-economy-revives-web-advertising.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , operator of  China ’s most
popular Internet search engine, fell in after-hours  New York 
trading following the slowest  profit growth  in almost four
years.  The company dropped as much as 7.8 percent to $99.90 after
saying fourth-quarter net income rose 36 percent.  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) ,
operator of China’s second-biggest video site, also tumbled 5.5
percent yesterday because of an earnings forecast that trailed
analysts’ estimates.  Chinese Internet companies have stepped up spending on
development and content as they contend with cooler economy and
slower advertising growth. Beijing-based Baidu also faces
growing competition in its main search business from  Qihoo 360
Technology Co. (QIHU)  and Sohu.com.  “The short-term prospects for Baidu are pessimistic,”
Eric Qiu, an analyst at Guosen Securities Co. in Hong Kong, said
in a note today. “Years of rising ad prices are coming to an
end.”  The company’s sales growth will probably slow in the first
two quarters of this year, Qiu said. Baidu forecast first-
quarter revenue of 5.9 billion  yuan  to 6.1 billion yuan, about
in line with  analysts’ estimates . Net income in the three months
ended December rose to 2.8 billion yuan, matching the average of
11  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The  profit increase 
was the smallest since the first quarter of 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sohu.com yesterday said first-quarter profit excluding some
items will probably be 50 cents to 55 cents a share. The average
of five estimates on that basis was 77 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Labor and bandwidth costs are rising as
the Beijing-based company grows and traffic increases, it said.  Baidu Mobile  Baidu intends to add more  staff  this year as it develops
new products, particularly for mobile users. The company may
also make more acquisitions following purchases including an
online travel company and a stake in a video website.  “Our key strategic focus in 2013 is mobile,” Chief
Financial Officer Jennifer Li said on a conference call today.
Any acquisitions “would follow our overall strategy,” she
said.  Baidu’s daily query market share fell 8 percentage points
to 79 percent within a month of the introduction of Qihoo’s
rival engine, Citigroup Inc. said in an Oct. 31 report, citing
its own research and iResearch data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  