-- Baidu Tops Drop on Profitability Concern: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-02-05T22:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/baidu-tops-drop-on-profitability-concern-china-overnight.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  led the benchmark index of
Chinese stocks traded in New York to its lowest level in 2013 on
concern plans by the nation’s most-used search engine to spend
more developing its technology will sap profitability.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. fell 0.2 percent to 97.6, the lowest
close since Dec. 28. Baidu, which posted the smallest profit
increase since 2009 in the last quarter, sank as much as 11
percent after the stock was downgraded and analysts cut price
targets.  China Southern Airlines Co. (ZNH)  slid as local airports plan
to lift fees while mobile chipmaker  Spreadtrum Communications
Inc. (SPRD)  jumped the most since May on an improving outlook for
smartphone-chip demand.  Baidu, facing competition from new  search engines , said
Feb. 4 that first-quarter revenue may be as little as $945.4
million, below the $969 million mean of 11 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Chief Executive Officer Robin Li said on
a conference call that the Beijing-based company will continue
to invest in mobile search tools, improving network
infrastructure and expanding its video business in 2013.  “Management seeks to sacrifice profitability for growth in
2013 amid competition in the web search area,” Henry Guo, a
senior analyst at research firm ABR Investment Strategy LLC,
which focuses on technology and media companies, said by phone
from  San Francisco  yesterday. “We won’t see a catalyst for
Baidu’s stock to go up in the near term as it will take up to
two years for its mobile search to make money.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., was little changed at a four-
week low of $40.62. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  climbed 1
percent to 1,511.29 as Dell Inc. agreed to be taken private.  Baidu Downgraded  Baidu’s American depositary receipts dropped 10 percent to
$96.37, the biggest retreat since September 2011. Trading volume
was more than three times the daily average over the past three
months.  Raymond James & Associates Inc. analyst  Aaron Kessler  cut
his  recommendation  on Baidu yesterday to market perform,
equivalent to hold, from outperform, citing the outlook for
lower profit margins and concerns about mobile search, where
Baidu is less dominant.  George Askew  at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
Inc. also downgraded the stock to hold from buy.  Baidu’s  operating margin , which measures operating profit
as a percentage of sales, was 45 percent in the fourth quarter,
down from 51 percent a year earlier and 53 percent for the
previous three months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Analysts
forecast the ratio will narrow to 44 percent in the first
quarter.  Target Cuts  “We expect margins to remain pressured throughout 2013 due
to increased investments in the core search business and the
consolidation of its online video website,” Kessler at  Raymond
James  wrote in a note dated yesterday. Baidu’s “significant
mobile monetization is still several quarters away,” he wrote.  At least 10 analysts, including Morgan Stanley’s Richard Ji, cut price targets for Baidu after its earnings report.  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU) , a Beijing-based  Internet company 
that started a search engine in August, advanced 2.9 percent in
its second day of gains to a one-week high of $31.72. The
company has considered investing in and acquiring smaller
companies to help it compete against larger rivals, Chairman and
CEO Zhou Hongyi said in a Feb. 2 interview in Hong Kong.  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , which also competes with Baidu in online
search services and operates games and video websites, slid for
a second day after providing a first-quarter profit forecast
Feb. 4 that was below analysts’ estimates. The Beijing-based
company’s shares dropped 1.5 percent to $45.8, the lowest level
this year.  Chipmakers Surge  Spreadtrum Communications Inc., a Shanghai-based chipmaker
for mobile devices, surged 11 percent to $17.2, jumping the most
since May and posting the biggest gain on the China-US gauge.
 Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. (981) , a Shanghai-
based integrated-circuit foundry, advanced 6.1 percent to $3.13
in New York, its largest rally in four weeks.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , whose chip designs power Apple Inc.’s
iPhone and iPad, yesterday reported fourth-quarter sales that
rose more than analysts predicted as demand for smartphones
surged and as its first-quarter sales forecast also exceeded
what analysts had projected.  “ARM’s good results boosted people’s optimism about mobile
chip market for the first quarter,” Jun Zhang, an analyst at
Wedge Partners Corp., said by phone from San Jose, California
yesterday. “Overall handset inventory levels in January
decreased as smartphone chip shipments rebounded slightly in the
month.”  Airlines Slump  China Southern, Asia’s biggest airline by passenger
numbers, slumped 1.7 percent to $29. China Eastern Airlines
Corp. lost 0.7 percent to $22.57 in a second day of declines.  Beijing Capital International Airport Co., the world’s
second busiest airport by passengers, said regulators will allow
it to charge domestic carriers the same fees as foreign airlines
for international flights from April 1. The fee increase, which
also applies to domestic flights that connect to international
flights, will help boost revenue, the airport said in a Feb. 4
statement.  Airports in Shanghai, Guangzhou and Hainan province
announced fee increases after receiving the regulator’s notice.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  dropped 2.8 percent
to a four-week low of 11,813.39 yesterday. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese shares advanced 0.2 percent
to 2,433.13, climbing for a seventh day in the longest stretch
of gains since February last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  