-- Banks Can Withstand Swedish Housing Price Slump, Fitch Predicts
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   C h a r l e s   D a l y
-- 2013-02-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/banks-can-withstand-swedish-housing-price-slump-fitch-predicts.html
Sweden’s largest banks  can handle a
projected slump in  house prices  as deep as 10 percent without
suffering significant credit losses,  Fitch Ratings  said.  A price slump on that scale would be “very manageable for
the banks,” and would have “little impact on the level of
impaired assets or loan impairment charges,” Jens Hallen,
director for financial institutions at Fitch, said yesterday in
an interview in Stockholm. “We don’t expect to see any
significant loan losses directly from the Swedish banks’
mortgage portfolios.”  Sweden is forcing its banks to build up bigger capital
reserves than lenders elsewhere and wants the industry to apply
tougher risk weights to mortgage assets. The pro-active approach
has helped make  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and SEB AB
the best-capitalized banks in the European Union.  “Their capital is strong and their profitability levels
are good, so they can absorb losses,” Hallen said. “What’s
limiting risks of significant impairment charges in the first
place is households’ ability to pay, and effectively the
incentives to continue to pay on your mortgage.”  Sweden’s four biggest banks, including  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,
already exceed a 12 percent core Tier 1 requirement that takes
effect in 2015. This year’s minimum requirement is 10 percent.
That compares with a 7 percent rule set by the  Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision  that’s due to become effective by 2019.  Toxic Loans  The government of Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  says the
stricter rules are needed to protect taxpayers. The country’s
1990s financial crisis resulted in the state taking over some
banks’ toxic loans.  Sweden’s central bank has also argued in favor of stricter
controls. The Riksbank favors a cap on household debt after 
levels rose to a record this year. House prices, little
changed over the past two years, have risen about 25 percent
since 2006.  Household debt, now at about 173 percent of disposable
incomes, far exceeds the 135 percent peak reached at the height
of the 1990s crisis. That “gives you at least a proxy for what
might be sustainable,”  Michael Wolf , the chief executive
officer of Swedbank, said in an interview on Dec. 4.  The level “can affect the sensitivity of Swedish households,
in particular if a significant correction in house prices is 
combined with an increase in  interest rates  or higher
unemployment,” Hallen said. Still, “we don’t believe it is a 
bubble,” he said. Prices will probably decline over the next 18 
to 24 months, Fitch estimates.  Underestimating Risks  Aside from borrowing caps, the Riksbank has also discussed
forcing homeowners to amortize their debt. That would follow an
85 percent loan-to-value cap introduced in 2010, a measure that
helped slow household borrowing growth from more than 10 percent
between 2004 and 2008, to 4.5 percent in December.  Sweden ’s Financial Supervisory Authority said last year it
will triple the risk weights banks must apply to their mortgage
assets amid concern lenders were underestimating the probability
of losses. The proposals would send risk weights to 15 percent.  Nordea’s loan loss ratio in Sweden rose to 7 basis points
of total lending in the fourth quarter, from 3 basis points in
the third. That was the lowest ratio in all the bank’s markets
and compares with 55 basis points in  Denmark , 13 in Finland and
11 in  Norway , according to its fourth-quarter  report . Credit
impairments at Swedbank’s Swedish retail unit jumped 48 percent
to 102 million kronor in the  three months  through December, from
69 million kronor in the third quarter.  Nordea’s core Tier 1 capital ratio reached 13.1 percent of
risk-weighted assets at the end of last year, while Swedbank’s
was 17.4 percent and SEB’s 15.1 percent. Handelsbanken had a
ratio of 17.9 percent at the end of the third quarter.  Financial Markets Minister Peter Norman last month warned
lenders against amassing too much capital, and gave the industry
the go-ahead to raise dividend payouts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in  Stockholm  at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net 
Charles Daly in Stockholm at 
 cdaly22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  