-- Bank of America’s Hedge-Fund Clients Boost Leverage in Asia
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-02-05T02:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/bank-of-america-s-hedge-fund-clients-boost-leverage-in-asia.html
Hedge-fund clients of  Bank of America
Corp. ’s Asian prime brokerage unit have increased their leverage
since October as the market outlook improved, according to the
second-largest U.S. bank by assets.  Gross leverage, which tracks  hedge funds ’ long and short
positions as a multiple of the cash they get after selling all
securities and repaying borrowings, have increased since late
October through Jan. 17, said Ben Williams, Hong Kong-based head
of Asia-Pacific financing sales in the bank’s Merrill Lynch unit.
Shorting involves selling borrowed securities in anticipation of
buying them back for a profit when their prices fall.  “This move has been more significant than other years,”
Williams said in an interview yesterday. “There’s opportunity
to do more things in  Asia , whether long or short.”  The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP)  has gained more than 9 percent
since the end of October as the U.S. moved toward a compromise
on the so-called fiscal cliff, which referred to the risk of a
government default from fiscal negotiation over more than $600
billion in spending cuts and tax increases, and the  European
debt crisis  eased, while economic outlooks for  Japan  and  China 
improved along with prospects of corporate earnings growth.
Rebounding markets also helped revive fundraising, Williams said.  Companies in the Asia-Pacific region and their shareholders
sold more than $57 billion worth of shares and convertible bonds
in the last four months, almost twice the amount in the fourth
quarter of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Turnover Uptick  “There’s been a general uptick in turnover across Asia,
being led by Hong Kong and China,” Williams said. “High
volumes and more mass participation have created deal flows and
chief financial officers and chief executive officers are
looking at opportunities to sell stock and pay down debt.”  Bank of America has also seen hedge fund clients, which had
little or no investments in Asia, primarily large global funds
that may not have offices here, enter the regional market
recently, Williams said.  Asia-focused hedge funds  returned  about 10 percent in 2012,
with 8 percent of the gains coming in the second half, according
to Singapore-based data provider Eurekahedge Pte.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has gained almost 24
percent since trading near a four-year low on Dec. 3 amid signs
of an economic recovery. China’s economic growth accelerated for
the first time in two years in the fourth quarter.  Overseas investors’ demand for yuan-denominated shares
quoted in China led to the recent surge in trading turnover and
premiums of Hong Kong-listed exchange-traded funds linked to the
so-called A shares, Silvia Fun, an analyst at CCB International
Securities Ltd., wrote in report dated Dec. 17.  A Shares  CSOP FTSE China A50 ETF, a Hong Kong-traded fund started in
November to track the performance of the FTSE China A50 Index of
the 50 largest A-share companies, now manages 18.5 billion  yuan 
($3 billion), according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Last
week’s trading volume for the fund more than tripled compared
with the first week in November, according to the  data .  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average advanced 24 percent in the
past  three  months as a weaker yen boosted the earnings outlook
for exporters. There is also optimism that the new government
led by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will increase pressure on the
central bank to do more to end deflation.  Prime brokerage provides hedge-fund client services
including settling trades, lending cash and securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  