-- Barclays Sets Aside Additional $1.6 Billion on Misselling
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-02-05T18:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/barclays-sets-aside-944-million-more-for-ppi-compensation.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-
largest bank by assets, will cut its bonus pool as it sets aside
an additional 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) to cover mis-
selling of payment-protection insurance and other products.  The bank  will reserve 600 million pounds for PPI redress,
bringing provisions to compensate customers who were sold the
insurance on loans unnecessarily or without their knowledge to
2.6 billion pounds, the London-based  company  said in a statement
today. It also increased provisions for interest-rate hedging
products by 400 million pounds as of the end of 2012, bringing
the total to 850 million pounds, the highest for any U.K. bank.  Barclays has been under intense scrutiny since it was fined
a record 290 million pounds in June for attempting to manipulate
the London interbank offered rate and other benchmark  interest
rates , with the lender’s three top executives, including  Bob Diamond , departing.  Antony Jenkins , who ran the consumer bank
responsible for the loan insurance sales from November 2009
until his promotion to chief executive officer in August, told
U.K. lawmakers today that the bank adjusted its bonus pool
“substantially” to reflect 2012 events.  “PPI is a very complex topic -- it goes back over 20
years,” Jenkins, 51, told a U.K. parliament committee in
London, when calling today’s release “our best estimate” of
provisions. “I don’t think the industry, and I include
Barclays, responded quickly enough.”  Jenkins Bonus  Barclays will report full-year results on Feb. 12, with
Jenkins updating investors on the bank’s strategy on the same
day. The  shares  rose 1.3 percent to 295.25 pence in  London  today
and have gained 13 percent this year, giving the company a
market value of 36.1 billion pounds.  Jenkins said earlier this month that he won’t take a bonus
for 2012 after a series of regulatory missteps including the
Libor fine. The bonus pool will be affected by values and
behavior, he told lawmakers, without elaborating.  “The chief executive is responsible for what happens
inside the organization and if events of grave consequences
happen, the price needs to be paid,” Jenkins said, when asked
about his reaction to another scandal following Libor. “If
there were a grave regulatory event under my watch, I’d feel
obliged to resign, there’s no doubt about that.”  Costly Scandal  The increase in provisions is unlikely to be an attempt to
“kitchen sink” the claims, or fully account for all possible
customer redress, as the accounting rules for U.K. banks don’t
allow for that, said Sandy Chen, an analyst at  Cenkos Securities
Plc (CNKS)  in London. “From our perspective this won’t be a one-off.”  The claims against Barclays and other U.K. lenders are
turning into another costly scandal for banks still paying back
customers wrongly sold insurance on personal loans.  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  earmarked 5.3 billion pounds for PPI redress,
more than any other U.K. bank.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
has set aside 1.7 billion pounds while  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  took a
$2.1 billion charge.  Lloyds may have to provision another 500 million pounds in
the fourth quarter for improperly selling PPI and  interest-rate
swaps  following the Barclays announcement, Jason Napier and
David Lock, analysts at Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in a note to
clients.  ‘Mistakes Made’  Lloyds has already set aside 90 million pounds for swaps
mis-selling, CEO Antonio Horta-Osorio told the same parliament
committee yesterday. HSBC has earmarked $240 million, while RBS,
which has provisioned 50 million pounds so far, said it will
“meaningfully” increase that amount.  Barclays may have to pay as much as 2.5 billion pounds to
compensate customers over interest-rate derivatives, Cormac Leech, an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in London, said on
Jan. 31. HSBC and RBS will need to earmark between 500 million
pounds to 1 billion pounds, and Lloyds could face 250 million
pounds to 500 million pounds in claims, he said.  “Mistakes were undoubtedly made,” Barclays Chairman  David Walker  told lawmakers today. “We have learned lessons from the
past and I really believe it will be different from now on.”  Barclays is also being investigated by the U.K.’s Serious
Fraud Office for fees it paid in 2008 to Qatar’s sovereign-
wealth fund as the lender sought money to avoid a government
bailout.  Shredding Legacy  When asked about his plan to reform the bank’s behavior,
Jenkins said he would need to “shred” parts of the legacy of
his predecessor, Diamond. An internal report was made following
the bank’s 100 million-pound investigation into Libor, he said,
adding that he would consider supplying Parliament with a copy.  The bank has not discussed selling its investment-banking
unit, he said in answer to a question by lawmaker Pat McFadden.  Labour Party lawmaker John McFall said last week that the
commission received testimony from a witness who said in 2000
that the structured- capital markets  division of Barclays
contributed 110 percent of Barclays’s investment-banking unit’s
profit. Today, he asked Jenkins and Walker for more data on how
bonuses at the business were decided.  “Structural capital markets is a fancy name for  tax
avoidance ,” said  Nigel Lawson , a Conservative who sits in the
upper house. “Do you think this is consistent with your
statement that we must never again be in a position of rewarding
people for making the bank money in a way which is unethical or
inconsistent with our values?”  While Walker said the business made only 14 percent of
total investment-banking revenue on average in 2000 to 2011 and
most wasn’t from tax avoidance, Lawson questioned whether that
figure took into account the savings the unit made on Barclays’s
own tax bill.  Jenkins said the business will be reviewed, and changes to
be announced on Feb. 12 will affect structured capital markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  