-- Basel Seen Rotten in Denmark as Banks Bypassed
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-02-06T13:59:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/basel-seen-rotten-in-denmark-as-banks-bypassed.html
Danish bankers are learning the hard
way it pays to have a seat at the table.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which brings
together regulators from 27 nations including the U.S and China,
last month expanded the range of easily sold assets banks must
have on hand to weather a month of market turmoil. While  policy
makers  approved company debt and equities, they kept limits on
covered bonds, mortgage-backed securities that fund almost all
Danish home purchases, and are rated higher than the sovereign
debt of Japan, Italy and Spain.  Denmark, which doesn’t have a representative on the
committee, has more of the securities outstanding per capita
than any other nation, with its banks holding more than half of
the 3.3 trillion-krone ($600 billion) market. Unless revised,
lenders will have to find alternatives to fulfill the liquidity
requirements at the same time Denmark is shrinking its issuance
of government debt. Interest rates for Danish homeowners, the
world’s most indebted, may also climb, creating reverberations
throughout the economy, said  Steen Bocian , chief economist for
Danske Bank A/S, the country’s largest lender.  “The thing that keeps us still breathing” is the
expectation the European Commission “will implement Basel in a
pragmatic manner,” said  Jesper Berg , head of regulatory affairs
for Nykredit A/S, Europe’s biggest issuer of mortgage-backed
covered bonds. The Copenhagen-based lender estimates Danish
banks will face an asset shortfall of almost 200 billion kroner.  “The covered bond issue is not really the big issue for
the countries that participate in the discussion,” Berg said.  Economic Consequences  That’s likely to have negative consequences for the Danish
economy, which is struggling to emerge from the fallout of a
property bubble that burst in 2008. Growth will suffer as
homeowners, confronted with higher rates, rein in spending,
Bocian said.  “Denmark is more interest-rate sensitive than most other
countries because the financial gross indebtedness is higher,”
Bocian said. Greater use of adjustable-rate loans and an
increase in household debt since the financial crisis erupted
have worsened the situation, he said.  Household debt is about three times disposable income, and
most of it is in mortgages financed by covered bonds, a form of
bank financing backed by mortgages, creating Europe’s second-
largest residential covered bond market after Spain. Danish
banks held mortgage bonds valued at 1.52 trillion kroner, or 46
percent of the 3.3 trillion kroner outstanding, in December, the
central bank said Jan. 25.  Foreclosures Jump  Foreclosures rose 18 percent in January from a month
earlier, to 425, the Danish statistics agency said today on its
website. They’ll probably stay around this level into 2014 as
the labor and housing markets remain sluggish, according to
Danske Bank.  Denmark isn’t alone in opposing rules that have been four
years in the making and are designed to apply global banking
standards to prevent a repeat of the 2008 global financial
crisis. Basel III also penalizes the 262 billion euros ($347
billion) market for Dutch residential mortgage-backed securities
because their loans allow for up to 95 percent of a home’s
value. Basel will only categorize securities as liquid assets
where the loan-to-value ratios are less than 80 percent.  The Basel Committee expanded the range of assets that banks
may use to meet liquidity requirements after a sampling of 209
banks found stricter rules led to a shortfall of $2.4 trillion.
The committee also gave lenders four more years to meet the
requirements to avoid a credit crunch.  Soros a Fan  What’s irksome for Danes is that the country’s two-
century-old mortgage market is touted by billionaire financier
 George Soros  as a model to be replicated; it has attracted
Pacific Investment Management Co, the world’s biggest bond fund;
and it withstood the financial crisis while Europe’s sovereign
turmoil has tested confidence in government debt, which will
count the most for liquidity purposes.  It “shows how you can become victim to what is politically
expedient,” said Berg.  Investor demand drove interest rates on bonds financing
loans that adjust yearly as low as 0.42 percent in December and
November auctions, according to the Association of Danish
Mortgage Banks. The Nykredit index of the market’s most traded
bonds hit a record last month, and closed yesterday less than 1
percent below that high.  Basel has categorized government debt as level 1, allowing
banks to fulfill 100 percent of their liquidity requirements
with the assets. Mortgage-based debt is considered level 2, so
there are caps on their use as liquid assets. Covered bonds will
have a 40 percent ceiling, while securitizations can’t count for
more than 15 percent of a lender’s liquidity buffer.  ‘Safe as Gold’  “The key assumption made in late 2009 was that government
bonds are as safe as gold, and time has not been kind to that
assumption,” Berg said. Still, “it’s bad timing to raise
doubts about that now. If the committee had gone more
fundamental, the whole liquidity coverage ratio would have
died.”  Top ranked benchmark Danish mortgage securities are, on
average, as liquid, or as easy to buy and sell, as the nation’s
AAA rated government debt, even in periods of market stress, the
Danish central bank said in a Nov. 22 working paper. The study
confirmed a 2010 finding.  The Basel changes “don’t address our main concern that
mortgage bonds should be considered highly liquid,” said  Jan Knoesgaard , the mortgage association’s deputy director. “We’ll
still have to follow through in the European Union for some time
now.”  Ignore Basel  The commission is working on legislation to implement the
recommendations, and agreed last year to submit assets to a
battery of tests to determine liquidity, rather than relying on
asset classes.  Denmark’s financial regulator told banks last year to
ignore the Basel rules. The Financial Supervisory Authority said
in December that, in expanding the pool of banks required to
report liquidity levels, it would allow banks to consider
mortgage bonds as liquid as sovereign assets after “objective
criteria” showed a “large part” are.  Still,  Benny Andersen , Denmark’s executive director at the
IMF, said conclusions that the European Commission would address
Denmark’s concerns “seem premature” as Basel still gives
preferential treatment to government debt.  “This poses a challenge for jurisdictions with low public
debt,” Andersen wrote in response to an IMF country review
completed in December. “More importantly, the current euro debt
crisis has revealed the inappropriateness of this approach.”  Issuance Outlook  Danish banks face a shrinking pool of Danish government
debt, which is about half that of Europe’s average.  The debt office plans to issue 75 billion kroner in bonds
this year, down from just more than 100 billion kroner last
year, after taking advantage of record low rates in 2012 to
prefund the government’s financing needs.  That issuance may decline further after the government last
year said capital pension holders cashing in policies this year
will get a lower tax rate, 37.5 percent compared with 40
percent. The government has estimated it may collect an
additional 5 billion kroner in revenue this year. The debt
office said in December the amount could run much higher, and
the “extraordinary large revenue” would be used to reduce bond
issuance in 2014 and beyond.  Yields on 2-year government notes were below zero for
almost half of last year as investors fled Europe’s debt crisis
for the safety of top-ranked Danish assets. Mortgage rates fell
to less than 0.5 percent in auctions to refinance adjustable-
rate loans and on the secondary market.  Recession Effect  The low rates have helped ease the effects of a recession,
enabling households to continue paying their mortgages even as
unemployment rose and house prices continue to slide. The
government estimates that gross domestic product shrank 0.4
percent last year.  House prices have dropped more than 20 percent since their
2007 peak, and the length of time properties are on the market
before a sale has grown steadily. Last month, the average time
climbed an annual 5 percent to 231 days, Boligsiden.dk, a real
estate agent-owned website that tracks the market, said today.  “It is still extremely important for us to have covered
bonds as high quality liquid assets,” Karsten Beltoft, director
of the Danish Mortgage Bankers’ Federation, said. “To have
covered bonds qualified as highly liquid assets will be stamp of
approval that will be important for us in many circumstances.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Schwartzkopff  in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban in New York at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  