-- Bayer, J&J Sign Partner Deal With Portola for Xarelto Antidote
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-02-05T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/bayer-j-j-sign-partner-deal-with-portola-for-xarelto-antidote.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  will
work together with  Portola Pharmaceuticals Inc.  to quell
doctors’ concerns about the lack of an antidote to their new
blood-thinner Xarelto.  The companies will collaborate on PRT4445, Portola’s
experimental antidote for Factor Xa inhibitors like Xarelto,
Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer and  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based J&J said in an e-mailed press release today. A proof-of-
concept study in healthy volunteers should be done by the second
half of this year, the partners said.  Xarelto and competitor Eliquis, a Factor Xa inhibitor
developed by  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  were
hailed as a benefit for patients who may have otherwise relied
on the older, more difficult to administer drug warfarin to help
prevent blood clots and strokes. Still, doctors were concerned
that without an antidote it might be difficult to undo blood
thinning in cases of an emergency, like sudden bleeding or the
need for an immediate operation.  “Although when normalization of blood clotting is
necessary, stopping the intake of Xarelto is usually effective,
we understand the desire of doctors to have a specific antidote
to reverse the anticoagulation effects,” Kemal Malik, Bayer’s
head of global development, said in today’s statement.  The partners will pay Portola an undisclosed amount for the
collaboration. The South San Francisco-based company will keep
global development and commercialization rights for the
compound.  Portola signed a similar deal in November with Pfizer and
its partner Bristol-Myers. That agreement also allowed Portola
to keep the rights on the compound.  Xarelto won approval in November 2011 for U.S. patients
with atrial fibrillation, an irregular heartbeat that increases
the risk of blood clots and strokes and that afflicts about 2.66
million people in the U.S. Eliquis was approved in December 2012
for the same patients.  Bayer has said Xarelto will probably have peak annual sales
of more than 2 billion euros ($2.71 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  