-- Bernanke Voiced Alarm Over Credibility of Ratings Firms
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-02-05T22:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/bernanke-voiced-alarm-over-credibility-of-ratings-firms.html
Federal Reserve policy makers
including Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  voiced alarm in August 2007
over a loss of investor confidence in ratings companies, warning
that the declining credibility could worsen market turmoil.  “There is an information fog” that “is very much
associated with the loss of confidence in the credit-rating
agencies,” Bernanke said at a meeting on Aug. 7, 2007. The
firms’ “credibility has been shot” and “it is much harder to
see that this market will unwind itself in a rather kind and
comforting environment,” said  Kevin Warsh , then a Fed Governor.  The 2007 transcripts of the Federal Open Market Committee,
released last month, open a window onto how Fed officials viewed
ratings companies during the end of the period that is the focus
of a U.S. Justice Department lawsuit against McGraw-Hill Cos.
and its Standard & Poor’s unit.  The Justice Department filed a civil complaint yesterday in
Los Angeles accusing McGraw-Hill and S&P of three types of
fraud, the first federal case against a ratings company for
grades related to the credit crisis. The U.S. is seeking as much
as $5 billion in penalties in punishment for inflated credit
ratings that Attorney General  Eric Holder  said were central to
the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  The “egregious” conduct “goes to the very heart of the
recent financial crisis,” Holder said today at a news
conference in Washington. The complaint “is an important step
forward in our ongoing efforts to investigate and punish the
conduct that is believed to have contributed to the worst
economic crisis in recent history.”  Flawed Ratings  In June 2007,  William C. Dudley , then the head of the
markets desk of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, warned of
the risk to broader financial markets from flawed credit
ratings. That April, New Century Financial Corp., once the
second-largest U.S. subprime mortgage lender, had filed for
bankruptcy.  “High credit ratings don’t fully capture measures of
risk,” Dudley said during the FOMC’s June 27-28, 2007 meeting.  “The ratings are based on the risk of default, not the
market risks associated with illiquidity,” said Dudley, who
became president of the New York Fed in January 2009. The flawed
ratings may veil “significant market risk” posed by “highly
leveraged portfolios of highly rated but illiquid assets.”  Market Stability  Bernanke and his FOMC colleagues met on Aug. 7, 2007, after
a steady deterioration in  financial market stability . The prior
month Bear Stearns Cos. liquidated two hedge funds that invested
in mortgage securities. American Home Mortgage Investment Corp.
filed for bankruptcy on Aug. 6 and BNP Paribas Investment
Partners temporarily suspended net asset value calculations for
some funds on Aug. 9 because of disruptions in asset-backed
securities markets.  At the Aug. 7 meeting Dudley said “disturbing delinquency
trajectories” had prompted ratings agencies to downgrade a
significant number of assets and that losses had “led to a
fundamental reevaluation of what a credit rating means and how
much comfort an investor should take from a high credit
rating.”  Dudley’s remarks sparked an FOMC discussion on the risk to
the economy from declining confidence in ratings companies.  “With the rating agencies discredited and markets
vulnerable to adverse news on the economy, the period of unusual
uncertainty could be prolonged,” said  Donald Kohn , the Fed’s
vice chairman from 2006 to 2010.  More Business  S&P issued credit ratings on more than $2.8 trillion of
residential mortgage-backed securities and about $1.2 trillion
of collateralized-debt obligations from September 2004 through
October 2007, according to the Justice Department complaint. S&P
downplayed the risks on portions of the securities to gain more
business from the investment banks that issued them, the U.S.
said.  S&P has denied wrongdoing. McGraw-Hill fell today by 10.7
percent to $44.92. The stock fell 14 percent yesterday in the
biggest drop in 25 years.  Officials including Bernanke and then-Treasury Secretary
 Henry Paulson  also failed to predict the severity of the crisis,
 Floyd Abrams , an attorney representing S&P, said today in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s Sara Eisen.  S&P -- like investors, government officials and “every
member of the Fed -- had views in 2007 about how bad the housing
market collapse would be, which did not pan out,” said Abrams,
a partner at Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP in New York. “It was a
lot worse than S&P predicted it would be, and a lot worse than
everyone else predicted it would be.”  No ‘Fraud’  “There wasn’t any fraud” because S&P employees “tried
their best to come out with the right answers about what would
happen,” Abrams said. “All the folks at the Fed back in 2007
and Chairman Bernanke and Secretary Paulson -- everyone, just
about all these entities, were pretty much in the same
ballpark.”  Bernanke testified to Congress in March of 2007 that
“problems in the subprime market” were “likely to be
contained.”  Yet in August 2007 the Fed cut the discount rate that it
charges banks on emergency loans, and in September of that year
the central bank began a series of cuts to its target Fed funds
rate that ended with the rate near zero by December 2008.  Timothy F. Geithner , then New York Fed president, said at
the meeting on Aug. 7, 2007, “You are also seeing a collapse in
confidence, as Bill described it, in how to value complex
structured credit products, probably from the loss of faith in
ratings and from the changes ahead in ratings methodology and in
actual ratings.”  Treasury Chief  Geithner was U.S Treasury Secretary from January 2009 until
last month.  At the same meeting, Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart 
voiced concern from an unidentified “market observer” that
markets for a range of structured securities were vulnerable to
“contagion caused by the damaged credibility of rating
agencies.”  At the end of their August meeting the FOMC voted to leave
policy unchanged, saying “although the downside risks to growth
have increased somewhat, the Committee’s predominant policy
concern remains the risk that inflation will fail to moderate as
expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  