-- Bersani Aide Fassina Denies Signaling Euro Could Disintegrate
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2013-02-05T16:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/bersani-aide-fassina-denies-signaling-euro-could-disintegrate.html
The economic-policy spokesman for the
frontrunner in  Italy ’s election campaign said he does believe
the euro is irreversible and his comments signalling  Europe ’s
monetary union could disintegrate were misreported.  “What I said has been reported in a definitely improper
way,” Stefano Fassina, head of economic policy for the
coalition led by Pier Luigi Bersani, said today about his speech
at a Rome event yesterday. “What I said is that in order to
make it possible for the euro, which is not an optimal monetary
area, to exploit its potential at best, we need to change the
course of action.”  Speaking at a debate organized by the Bruno Leoni
Institute, Fassina said yesterday that European governments
“need to coordinate macroeconomic policy” if they “want to
stay in the same monetary area since the monetary union is not
an inevitable fate, if we make wrong choices, at some point it
can disintegrate,” according an  audio recording  of the speech
available on the Radio Radicale station’s website. His comments
were previously posted on Twitter by the institute’s head
Alberto Mingardi.  “No, not all,” Fassina, 46, a former International
Monetary Fund economist, said today when asked whether he
questioned the irreversibility of the euro.  Italy will guarantee stability and commitment to budget
rigor should the center-left bloc headed by Bersani win the Feb.
24-25 elections, Bersani said today in a speech at a conference
in Berlin.  Opinion polls show that the coalition led by Bersani’s
 Democratic Party  may fall short in one of the Parliament’s two
houses. That would probably force Bersani to seek a deal with
the bloc headed by caretaker Prime Minister  Mario Monti . Still,
such a move risks straining ties with the Democratic Party’s
main ally, Nichi Vendola, head of the Left Ecology Freedom
party, who has called for reversing some of Monti’s austerity
policies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net 
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net 
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  