-- BG Group Adjusted Profit Declines on Tax, Lower LNG Prices
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-02-05T07:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/bg-group-adjusted-profit-declines-on-tax-lower-lng-prices.html
BG Group Plc (BG/) , the U.K.’s third-
largest oil and gas producer, said adjusted profit fell 29
percent in the fourth quarter on lower liquefied natural gas
prices and a tax credit a year earlier that wasn’t repeated.  Excluding disposals and one-time items, earnings were $1.03
billion, the company said in a statement today. That missed the
$1.06 billion mean estimate in a Bloomberg  survey  of 11
analysts.  Chief Executive Officer Chris Finlayson, who took over on
Jan. 1, has delayed the company strategy presentation, usually
held with the fourth-quarter earnings, to reset company
production targets. BG fell by a record 14 percent in one day on
Oct. 31, when it said output won’t grow in 2013 because of
project delays in the North Sea, U.S., Brazil and Egypt.  Net income  rose to $1.73 billion in the period from $1.34
billion a year earlier.  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  restarted in November the North Sea Buzzard oil
field, where BG has  a stake , after it was shut for about a
month. Total SA said Jan. 24 it expected to resume pumping at
its Elgin and Franklin fields, in which BG is also a partner,
within weeks following a natural gas leak in March.  West Delta  BG said in October its  West Delta Deep Marine  project in
Egypt wasn’t meeting expectations and in November told clients
in Chile about a possible LNG supply reduction this year partly
because of less fuel available from the African nation.  “The LNG division will likely continue to see earnings
restricted due to price hedging in 2012, before improving in
2013 as hedges come to an end,” Oswald Clint, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in London, also said before the
earnings were released.  LNG prices in Japan, the world’s biggest buyer of the fuel,
were about 5 percent lower, averaging at $15.89 million British
thermal units in October and November last year, down from the
same period a year earlier, according to the latest  data 
available from LNG Japan Corp.  As of November, BG reached asset sales agreements that
would release about $7.6 billion of capital by July, more than
then $5 billion targeted in February.  BG will host a  webcast presentation  at 12 p.m. London time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 