-- BG Shares Surge as CEO Gives First Presentation to Investors
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-02-05T16:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/bg-shares-surge-as-ceo-gives-first-presentation-to-investors-1-.html
BG Group Plc (BG/) , the U.K.’s third-
largest oil and gas company, surged in  London  as the new Chief
Executive Officer Chris Finlayson gave his first investor
presentation.  BG reversed declines earlier in the day, posted after the
company announced lower profits and scrapped a production
forecast, to rise 3.4 percent to 1,142 pence in London, the
biggest gain since June 27. The shares are down 20 percent in
the last year.  “Very good performance from the new CEO,” said  Jason Kenney , an Edinburgh-based analyst at Banco Santander SA, who
listened to the presentation. “Pragmatic, credible and
reinvigorating a sense of believe in credibility.”  BG won’t reach its 1 million-barrel-a-day production target
in 2015 and expects to pump 630,000 to 660,000 barrels a day
this year, the Reading, England-based company said in a
statement today. Fourth-quarter profit after disposals and one-
time items fell 29 percent to $1.03 billion.  The adjusted profit was almost in line with the $1.06
billion mean estimate in a Bloomberg  survey  of 11 analysts.
Earnings were cut by a one-time $277 million tax credit in 2011
and a smaller contribution from the liquefied natural gas
business, Finlayson said in the statement.  “Fewer LNG cargo deliveries combined with lower spot
prices resulted in a 16 percent lower contribution from LNG
shipping and marketing,” BG said.  Net income  rose to $1.73 billion in the fourth quarter from
$1.34 billion a year earlier. Full-year production rose 3
percent to 240.5 million barrels of oil equivalent (657,000
barrels a day).  Record Drop  BG fell by a record 14 percent in one day on Oct. 31, when
it said output won’t grow in 2013 because of project delays in
the  North Sea , U.S.,  Brazil  and  Egypt , two months before
Finlayson became the company’s first new CEO in more than a
decade. The company is trying to defend its  credit rating  while
managing record investment in fields from Brazil to  Australia .  Shipments of liquefied natural gas sold under contract will
drop to 11.3 million tons this year, 2.6 percent less than 2012,
the company said today.  The 2013 LNG “supply forecast also assumes minimal spot
cargoes, given current tight market conditions,” BG said. “The
portfolio is substantially unhedged in 2013.”  BG expects to generate between $2.5 billion and $2.7
billion in operating profit at its LNG shipping and marketing
unit this year. That will be more than $2.6 billion it earned
last year.  Strong Volume  Extraction “is expected to be slightly down in the first
half; lower in the third quarter, when the Group performs most
of its maintenance program, and then grows strongly in the
fourth quarter” on ramp up in Brazil, said BG. There will be
“strong volume and cash flow growth in 2014 and 2015.”  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  restarted in November the North Sea Buzzard oil
field, where BG has  a stake , after it was shut for about a
month.  Total SA (FP)  said Jan. 24 it expected to resume pumping at
its Elgin and Franklin fields, in which BG is also a partner,
within weeks following a natural gas leak in March.  “The timing for Elgin/Franklin resuming production remains
a key uncertainty,” BG said today.  BG said in October its  West Delta Deep Marine  project in
Egypt wasn’t meeting expectations and in November told clients
in  Chile  about a possible LNG supply reduction this year partly
because of less fuel available from the African nation.  “We have seven projects coming on stream over the year,”
BG said. “We have sanctioned the next phase of development for
the West Delta Deep field, subject to partner approval, which
will come on stream in 2014.”  BG increased its asset sale target to $8.1 billion up from
the $7.6 billion guidance in October. In the fourth quarter, it
completed sale of BG Italia Power and signed agreements to
dispose of its interests in Argentine gas distributor  Metrogas
SA (METR)  and the Bolivia-to-Brazil pipeline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 