-- Billionaire Shanghvi’s Sun Gains After Cancer Drug Approval
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2013-02-05T12:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/billionaire-shanghvi-s-sun-gains-after-u-s-cancer-drug-approval.html
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP) ,
controlled by Indian billionaire Dilip Shanghvi, rose the most
in 14 months after the U.S. approved the company’s generic
version of  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s cancer drug Doxil.  The  shares  rose 4.1 percent, the most since Nov. 28, 2011,
to 749.50 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close of trading in Mumbai.
That  compared  with a 0.5 percent drop in  India ’s benchmark
Sensitive Index.  The U.S. Food & Drug Administration allowed sales of Sun
Pharma’s version of the drug to treat patients with ovarian
cancer that has progressed or recurred, to ease a shortage of
the treatment, according to a statement from the agency. Doxil
generated $402 million of revenue for J&J in 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a very important approval for Sun Pharma,” said
Hitesh Mahida, an analyst at Fortune Equity Brokers (India) Ltd.
in Mumbai. “It’s the first generic player to get an approval
for this drug, and we are expecting it to enjoy exclusivity for
the next nine months to one year.”  Sun Pharma, which reported revenue of 80.2 billion rupees
($1.5 billion) in the year ended March 31, will earn $53 million
from sales of the medicine in the 12 months beginning April 1,
Mahida estimates.  Sun Pharma’s shares rose 49 percent last year making it the
second-best performing stock in the 26-company  Bloomberg Asia
Pacific Pharmaceuticals Index. (BPRPHRM)  Shanghvi, who controls about 68
percent of the drugmaker, has assets valued at $9.3 billion,
according to  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Doctors Alerted  Sun Pharma’s generic, doxorubicin hydrochloride liposome
injection, will help resolve a shortage of the drug, the FDA
said in a statement yesterday.  J&J alerted doctors in June 2011 about the Doxil shortage.
The drug is produced by a contract manufacturer that signaled it
would be getting out of the business over the next several
years, according to Doxil’s website.  In February 2012, the FDA said it would exercise
enforcement discretion for temporary, controlled import of
Lipodox, the alternative to Doxil made by Sun Pharma, to address
a shortage of the drug in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  