-- BOE’s Haldane Tells Occupy Libor Furor Prompted Change
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-02-06T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/boe-s-haldane-tells-occupy-libor-furor-prompted-change.html
Bank of England official  Andrew Haldane  said technological innovation promises to transform
banking in the same way that it has revolutionized the  music
industry  and online selling.  As technology changed industries such as music, so it could
for finance, which is, “if nothing else, an information
business,” Haldane said in a speech in London yesterday. He
said such innovation would counter the history of technological
advances in banking, which so far haven’t cut the cost of
intermediation as dramatically as in other industries.  Haldane, the central bank’s executive director for
financial stability, has often courted controversy in his
comments on the banking industry. He told lawmakers last month
that institutions should defer bonus payouts for staff for as
many as 10 years, and that progress on remuneration so far is
still short of what is needed.  “Might redemption for the financial services sector lie in
technology and IT?” Haldane said. “If EBay has solved this for
second-hand goods, why not use this self-same business model to
solve the market for loans or payments. My optimistic conclusion
is that there are already early signs of this.”  For example, payment systems have not “established a
reputation for being especially innovative,” though
“technology companies are seeing potential to spread wings” in
the sector, Haldane said. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s announcement this week on opening payment systems and
encouraging new entrants will also encourage reform, he said.  Consumer Finance  In addition, peer-to-peer lending is expanding its
“breadth and depth” in areas such as consumer finance, small-
and medium-sized enterprise lending, foreign exchange and crowd-
funding, Haldane said.  Improved data flow from financial activity will also help
regulators set policy to encourage stability by enabling a
“real-time” map and making feasible a “Star Trek room” where
officials can spot problems, he said.  “The clatter caused by the failure of  Lehman Brothers  in
2008 was that no one globally could join the dots,” across the
financial system, he said. “There is a tidal wave of financial
data about to arrive on the doorstep of regulators, and therein
lies some real opportunities.”  Haldane spoke at an event organized by Intellect, a trade
association for the U.K. technology industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  