-- Boeing 787 Battery Maker to Maintain Output Amid Probe
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-02-06T16:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/boeing-787-dreamliner-battery-maker-gs-yuasa-s-profit-declines.html
GS Yuasa Corp. , the battery maker at
the center of the probe into  Boeing Co .’s grounded 787s, will
maintain its production plan for car and aircraft lithium-ion
cells even as the planemaker seeks approval for test flights.  GS Yuasa  doesn’t expect a significant drag on sales with
the Dreamliners ordered parked and is cooperating with
investigators,  Toshiyuki Nakagawa , a director, told reporters
yesterday in Kyoto, Japan, where the company is based.  GS Yuasa ,
also a supplier to  Mitsubishi Motors Corp.  and Honda Motor Co.,
kept its annual profit and sales forecast unchanged.  “We see no major concerns,”  Jun Yamaguchi , an analyst at
Credit Suisse AG in Tokyo, wrote in a report today.
“Performance at domestic automobile batteries, domestic
industrial batteries and power supplies, and overseas segments
was largely in line with expectations.”  Boeing said last month it’s moving forward with plans to
boost output and develop two new versions of its marquee jet
even as the inquiry into battery faults continues. It is seeking
U.S. Federal Aviation Administration approval to resume test
flights, which would let the Chicago-based company study the
787’s lithium-ion power packs in operation.  Shares of  GS Yuasa  rose 1.5 percent to 336 yen as of the
close of trading in Tokyo today, trimming the year-to-date
decline to 2.9 percent.  No Damage  The  company  yesterday also reported  net income  in the nine
months ended Dec. 31 dropped to 5.52 billion yen ($60 million),
compared with 5.73 billion yen in the same period a year
earlier. Revenue fell 4.6 percent to 196 billion yen.  “We’re cooperating with the investigation,” Nakagawa
said. “We haven’t sensed any damage to our reputation at this
point.”  GS Yuasa  reiterated  full-year sales of 288 billion yen and
a net income of 8 billion yen. The company’s sales of lithium-
ion batteries for aircraft are several hundred million yen,
Nakagawa said.  U.S. and Japanese authorities are investigating GS Yuasa’s
lithium-ion batteries after one caught fire on a Japan Airlines
Co.-operated 787 last month, and another emitted smoke on an  All
Nippon Airways Co.  plane a week later, causing an emergency
landing.  Flight Cancellations  ANA said today it was extending cancellations of 787
flights through the end of February, with a total of 1,206
flights pulled and about 100,720 passengers affected. It said
last week that cancellations had cut sales by 1.4 billion yen in
January.  The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board, which is
studying the GS Yuasa batteries with Chicago-based Boeing, last
week said it found evidence of uncontrolled overheating with the
JAL battery. Japan’s government also ended on-site inspections
of GS Yuasa last month.  “I think we are probably weeks away from being able to
tell people here’s what exactly happened and what needs to
change,” NTSB Chairman Deborah Hersman said at a breakfast
today with reporters in Washington.  GS Yuasa  first demonstrated its technology in a prismatic
lithium-ion battery in 1993. The company announced a multi-year,
multi-million dollar contract in June 2005 to supply batteries
for the 787 to Thales SA, Europe’s biggest defense-electronics
maker.  Car Batteries  GS Yuasa, which also makes lead-acid batteries, seeks to
build lithium-ion batteries into a core business and supplies
them to Mitsubishi for its electric cars.  All four plants where GS Yuasa builds lithium-ion batteries
are in Japan and the batteries supplied to the Dreamliners are
made at a factory in its Kyoto headquarters.  GS Yuasa hasn’t made a  profit  on the technology yet. In the
year ended March 2012, GS Yuasa’s lithium-ion batteries business
had an operating loss of 3.26 billion yen, compared with a 1.27
billion-yen loss a year earlier, according to the company’s
annual report. The company spent 30 billion yen, or 75 percent
of its total capital investments, on the segment last fiscal
year, according to its website.  A unit of  GS Yuasa  also won a contract in August to supply
lithium-ion battery cells to the International Space Station.
Boeing oversees all contract work at the space station as the
National Aeronautics Space Administration’s prime contractor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Cooper in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  