-- Bouygues Eyes Croat Energy, Transport Plans, Paradis Says
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-02-05T13:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/bouygues-eyes-croat-energy-transport-plans-paradis-says.html
French builder  Bouygues SA (EN) , which
will build a new terminal at the  Zagreb International Airport ,
wants to compete for energy and transportation projects in
 Croatia  as the nation joins the next European Union.  “In terms of infrastructure and energy projects in
Croatia, we effectively are candidates to take advantage of EU
funds,” said Charles Paradis, the chief operating officer of
Bouygues Construction, in an interview yesterday in Zagreb. “If
projects are coming through tenders, we will take part.”  Croatia, which is set become the 28th EU member in July, is
struggling to emerge from its second recession in two years amid
austerity measures and an investment drought sparked by  Europe ’s
debt crisis. The Adriatic nation stands to receive about 10
billion euros ($13.3 billion) in EU grants through 2020 and
plans to use the funds to boost public investment in
infrastructure and energy.  Croatia a year ago accepted an offer from a French group
led by Bouygues, that nation’s second-largest construction
company, and  Aeroports de Paris  to build the Zagreb terminal.  The group, called Zagreb Airport International Co., will
build Croatia’s main airport and pay 87 million euros ($118
million) in concession fees over 30 years. It will also have the
right to operate the existing terminal until a new facility is
operational in 2015.  The group will take over the existing terminal in April,
while construction works on the new terminal will begin in
September, Paradis said.  The new terminal is expected to boost tourism, which
accounts for about 20 percent of gross domestic product in the
former Yugoslav republic, and position Croatia to become a
regional hub in the western Balkans.  The first phase, during which a new terminal and runways
will be built, is estimated to cost 190 million euros. A further
29 million euros will be invested after passenger traffic
through the airport exceeds 5 million travelers, compared with
2.1 million in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  