-- Bovespa Declines as Petrobras Plunge Outweighs Itau Stock Rally
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-02-05T20:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/bovespa-futures-rise-as-commodities-advance-boosts-exports-view.html
The Bovespa index fell for a second
day as oil producer  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  slumped on weaker-
than-expected earnings, outweighing gains by financial stocks
led by  Itau Unibanco Holding SA. (ITUB4)   Voting shares of Petrobras, as state-controlled Petroleo
Brasileiro is also known, fell the most on the gauge. Itau,
Latin America’s largest lender by market value, jumped the most
in a month after reporting lower bad loan provisions.  The Bovespa fell 0.2 percent to 59,444.97 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo. Twenty-four stocks dropped on the measure
while 44 climbed. The real strengthened 0.5 percent to 1.9846
per dollar.  Voting shares of Petrobras tumbled 8.3 percent to 16.60
reais, plunged to the lowest since August 2005. The oil producer
said it will pare back dividends as earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization dropped to 11.9 billion
reais in the fourth quarter, compared with an average estimate
of 14.6 billion reais among analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Itau rallied 2.5 percent to 34.19 reais after saying in a
regulatory filing today that provisions were 5.69 billion reais
in the fourth quarter, down from 5.94 billion reais in the three
previous months. The bank reported recurring profit of 3.5
billion reais, matching analysts’ estimates.  “Last year there was some concern that a slowing economy
would lead to higher delinquency rates, but banks have reported
strong numbers, signaling the industry is doing well,” Fernando Goes, an analyst at brokerage Clear Corretora in Sao Paulo, said
in a phone interview.  Bull Market  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the oil company
controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , fell 6.2
percent to 3.77 reais in its second day of declines. Volume was
1.5 times the three-month average, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The Bovespa entered a bull market on Jan. 3 after rising 21
percent from last year’s low on June 5 as stimulus from central
banks around the world eased concern that economic growth might
miss expectations while borrowing costs at a record low in
 Brazil  boosted equity demand. The index has since pared its
advance to 13 percent.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge trades at 11 times
analysts’ earnings  estimates  for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.3 for MSCI’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 8.85 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.34 billion reais this year
through Feb. 5, according to data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  