-- Brazil Swap Rates Climb on Petrobras Price Outlook; Real Rises
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   M a r i s a   C a s t e l l a n i
-- 2013-02-05T20:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/brazil-swap-rates-drop-as-rousseff-weighs-tax-cut-real-rises.html
Brazil ’s swap rates rose, reversing
an earlier drop, as the state oil company signaled it would seek
further price increases, spurring speculation that inflation
will prompt the central bank to raise borrowing costs.  Swap rates due in January 2015 climbed three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.02 percent at the close in Sao
Paulo. They earlier fell six basis points after President  Dilma Rousseff  said the government plans to scrap federal taxes on
food staples to control inflation. The real appreciated 0.5
percent to 1.9846 per dollar.  State-controlled Petroleo Brasileiro SA will continue to
seek “convergence” with international fuel prices, Chief
Executive Officer Graca Foster told analysts on a conference
call today. Swap rates also rose as the IGP-DI index of
producer, consumer and construction prices increased in January
more than economists forecast.  “We had information coming from all sides, with the IGP-DI
and Graca Foster pushing rates up, and Dilma pushing them
down,” said Pedro Ferman, a fixed-income analyst at Maxima
Asset Management in Rio de Janeiro. “The upshot of all this was
the shorter-term rates rose.”  Petrobras, as the company is also known, said last week
that it was raising gasoline prices at refineries by 6.6 percent
and diesel by 5.4 percent.  The Getulio Vargas Foundation reported today that its IGP-
DI index rose 0.31 percent last month after a 0.66 percent
increase in December. The median forecast of 25 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 0.26 percent advance.  Annual Inflation  Annual inflation  has exceeded the 4.5 percent midpoint of
the central bank’s target range for 28 consecutive months. The
IPCA index of consumer prices rose 5.84 percent in December from
a year earlier, quickening from the 5.53 percent annual pace in
the prior month.  While Rousseff said inflation is “no way near” the
ceiling of the central bank’s target range of 2.5 percent to 6.5
percent, the government is seeking to slow the pace of price
increases.  “We are studying a total cut of federal taxes on the basic
foods basket,” Rousseff said in an interview with local  radio
stations  posted on the presidential palace’s website. “We will
cut those taxes.”  Reducing taxes would help tame inflation, which the central
bank said in the minutes of its Jan. 15-16 meeting was getting
worse in the “short term.” Board members held the target
lending rate at a record low 7.25 percent for a second month as
policy makers sought to revive growth after the slowest two
years of economic expansion in a decade.  Currency Gains  The real rallied to a level stronger than 2 per  U.S. dollar 
on Jan. 28 for the first time since July after the central bank
intervened by selling $1.85 billion of foreign-exchange swaps as
inflation accelerated.  Policy makers swung in 2012 between selling currency swaps
to prevent the real from falling too quickly and offering
reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by keeping the real
from strengthening beyond 2 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Marisa Castellani in Sao Paulo at 
 mcastellani7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  