-- Buffett’s Berkshire Returns to Once-Shunned Muni Market
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-02-05T00:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/buffett-s-berkshire-returns-to-once-shunned-muni-market.html
Warren Buffett ’s municipal-bond
insurer, which has shunned the market since 2009, returns this
week backing part of a debt deal for a development around one of
his company’s Nebraska Furniture Marts planned near Dallas.  Berkshire Hathaway Assurance Corp. will back a $106.9
million  bond issue  scheduled this week by entities tied to The
Colony, according to bond documents. The sale is one of several
to finance land purchases and development that includes a
furniture store about 27 miles (43 kilometers) north of Dallas.  It’s the first deal backed by the insurance unit since
November 2009, when it covered debt sold by Bexar County, home
to  San Antonio , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Buffett, 82, got into the business in 2007, the year the
subprime mortgage market began to implode, triggering the worst
financial crisis since the Depression. He said last year that
bankruptcy filings by San Bernardino and Stockton, California,
reduced the stigma of debt default.  “Once people find that the city works the next day, it
makes it easier for the city council next time they have a
problem with pensions -- or whatever it is -- just to say,
‘well, we’ll declare bankruptcy,’” Buffett said in July 2012 on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop with  Betty Liu .”  Berkshire-Owned  Buffett, the chairman and chief executive officer of Omaha,
Nebraska-based  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , didn’t immediately
respond to a question sent to an assistant about whether the
company plans to write more municipal-bond insurance. Berkshire
owns both the insurer and about 80 percent of Nebraska Furniture
Mart, also based in Omaha.  The plan to back the sale in Texas was first reported by
The Wall Street Journal.  The muni-debt insurance unit generated $595 million in
sales in its first year of operation, yet the company scaled
back the business in 2009 because of “changing market
conditions,” according to an annual report.  Entities tied to The Colony are selling bonds for a $1.5
billion mixed-use master-planned development on 433 acres that
will be anchored by a Nebraska  Furniture Mart (FURN)  enclosing almost
1.9 million square feet of space, according to a statement from
the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 