-- Builders Best Japan Stocks Since Quake: Riskless Return
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 2013-02-05T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/builders-best-japan-stocks-since-quake-riskless-return.html
Construction companies posted the
best risk-adjusted returns among Japanese stocks since the
country was struck by a record earthquake and tsunami almost two
years ago, as the government rebuilt infrastructure and a new
administration seeks to stimulate economic growth.  The Topix Construction Index returned a risk-adjusted 2
percent at the end of last month since March 10, 2011, the day
before the disaster, best among 33 industry groups in the Topix
Index, according to BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING. The
construction gauge had the best total return and the ninth-
lowest volatility, allowing the industry to outperform food and
pharmaceutical companies, as well as  the Bloomberg World
Engineering & Construction Index.   Companies such as  Obayashi Corp. , the nation’s biggest
builder by market value, are poised to benefit from 3.8 trillion
yen ($41 billion) pledged for rebuilding and disaster prevention
by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s new government on Jan. 11, on top
of 19 trillion yen already budgeted. A tunnel collapse that
killed nine people in December added impetus for infrastructure
investment, a policy staple during the Liberal Democratic
Party’s almost six decades of rule.  “The LDP will aim for steady economic growth in an
orthodox way,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , chief strategist at Toyota
Asset Management Co., which oversees about 1.79 trillion yen.
“Public works investment will be robust in the long-term when
you consider the government’s plan to strengthen infrastructure.
That’s highly likely to give construction companies a stable
revenue source.”  Volatility  The 94-member Topix construction group had a total return
of 41 percent including dividends since the day before the
earthquake through last month. The gauge’s volatility was 21
during that span, compared with the average of 26 for the 33
Topix groups.  The Bloomberg World Engineering & Construction Index , a
capitalization-weighted index of leading engineering and
construction stocks, had a risk-adjusted 0.3 percent loss in the
same period.  The  Topix , the broadest measure of Japanese equities,
gained 0.3 percent in that period, adjusting for price swings.
Pharmaceutical companies had the second-best return at 1.9
percent. The construction gauge traded at 18.2 times estimated
earnings, compared with 19.7 for the Topix, which capped a 12-
week advance on Feb. 1, the longest weekly winning streak since
1973.  Airlines, Power  The Topix Electric Power & Gas Index was the second-worst
performer after airlines, with a total loss of 49 percent and
the fourth-highest volatility since the earthquake. The gauge
has fallen since the meltdowns at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima plant prompted the shutdown of the nation’s reactors
on safety concerns.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing gains from stock appreciation and
dividends by volatility, providing a measure of performance per
unit of risk. Higher volatility means the price of an asset can
swing dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential
for unexpected losses.  Abe returned to power in December and aims to lead Japan
out of its third recession in five years, introducing 10.3
trillion yen in stimulus. His support for aggressive monetary
easing has helped the yen slide to its weakest against the
dollar since May 2010, driving the Nikkei 225 Stock Average to
the highest since April 2010. A falling Japanese currency boosts
overseas earnings.  Industry Politics  Construction companies were fed by the rebuilding binge
after World War II. Large builders contributed generously to
Liberal Democratic Party candidates during Japan’s ascent to
economic superpower. Bridges and roads to nowhere are a
testament to how central building projects are to the party’s
economic policy.  Taro Aso, the son of a cement magnate and a former prime
minister, was last month named Japan’s finance chief. He joined
family company Aso Industries in 1966 and rose to president and
chief executive of Aso Cement Co. before entering politics in
1979, according to his website.  During his 12 months as prime minister through September
2009, Aso compiled three extra budgets worth about 20 trillion
yen, abandoned a target to balance the budget by March 2012 and
distributed a 12,000 yen-per-person cash handout. Among the
elements in Aso’s record 15.4-trillion yen stimulus package
unveiled in April 2009 was 12.4 billion yen to get rid of
fishing gear dumped by foreign boats and 400 million yen for
cutting down trees to keep “beasts and birds” out of towns.  Riskier Assets  Abe’s stimulus may stoke concern about the new government’s
commitment to fiscal reform given that Japan’s public debt is
more than twice the size of the economy.  “You can’t keep expanding public works when you think
about Japan’s fiscal situation,” said  Isao Kubo , a Tokyo-based
equity strategist at Nissay Asset Management Corp., which
oversees about 5 trillion yen. “There’s been support for
construction stocks since the earthquake, but I don’t think it
will last long.”  The construction group has advanced 23 percent since Nov.
14, when national elections were announced on optimism a new
government would spend more on infrastructure. While the gauge
rose to a five-year high last month, brokerages and steelmakers
did even better as investors sought riskier assets amid a 30
percent rally in the Topix.  ‘Short-Term Correction’  “The sector may be in a short-term correction after rising
too fast and a weaker yen gives preference to export-related
stocks,” said  Masahiro Mochizuki , a Tokyo-based analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG.  The 2011 earthquake was the biggest in Japan’s history,
exceeding the Kobe temblor on Jan. 17, 1995. The construction
group had a 0.6 percent risk-adjusted return in the year after
Kobe, the eighth-highest among the Topix’s 33 groups, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Back then, people viewed public works as wasteful
spending,” Mochizuki said. Now, “public opinion is supportive
of maintaining and repairing infrastructure after cutting back
too much.”  Even before the quake and the elections, construction was
among the top industries by risk-adjusted return. Volatility for
construction shares tends to be low because they’re among so-
called defensive stocks whose earnings are resilient to global
economic cycles, Mochizuki said.  Housing Incentives  Builders had the second-best risk-adjusted return among
industry groups in the Topix since the end of 2007 as of
yesterday, trailing only rubber companies.  With the LDP in power again, builders may also benefit as
the government considers extending a mortgage tax break and
other incentives to purchase a home. Home purchases may rise
before consumption-tax increases begin in 2014, according to
 Akihiro Tsunoda , a Tokyo-based senior investment manager at
Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Asset Management Co., which oversees about
300 billion yen.  Daiwa House Industry Co., a home builder, is  the heaviest
weighed  stock in the Topix Construction Index. The stock has
surged 40 percent since elections were announced in November.  “The political wind and aging infrastructure are positive
for the sector,” Tsunoda said. “We are hearing about housing
tax breaks. There may also be last-minute buying ahead of a
sales tax hike. Sales outlook won’t be bad at least for the next
few years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  