-- Bulldog May Wage Proxy Battle for Firsthand Fund Buyback
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-02-05T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/bulldog-may-wage-proxy-battle-for-firsthand-fund-buyback.html
Bulldog Investors, the $530 million
activist hedge fund run by Phillip Goldstein, is pushing
 Firsthand Technology Value Fund Inc. (SVVC)  to buy back shares because
the closed-end fund is trading at a discount to net asset value.  Bulldog may wage a proxy fight against the closed-end fund
and has suggested that it repurchase its stock to boost the
value of shares, Goldstein said. Bulldog is the largest  investor 
in Firsthand Technology Value Fund, whose share price was
trading at a 26 percent discount to net asset value as of Feb.
4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If we do go forward with a proxy fight, if there’s an
actual shareholder vote, I think we would prevail,” Goldstein
said in a telephone interview last week.  The Firsthand Technology Value Fund, which is run by  Kevin Landis , invests in private technology and clean energy
companies, often those close to going public, including Facebook
Inc., Twitter Inc. and  SolarCity Corp. (SCTY)  Bulldog, based in Saddle
Brook,  New Jersey , first bought shares around the time of
Facebook’s initial public offering in May, after which shares of
both the world’s most-popular social network and the closed-end
fund declined, Goldstein said. Bulldog currently owns an 8.9
percent stake in Firsthand Technology Value Fund, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tucker Hewes, a spokesman at Hewes Communications Inc. for
 San Jose , California-based Firsthand Capital Management Inc.,
the fund’s investment manager, declined to comment.  Closed-end funds issue a fixed number of shares and are
listed on a stock exchange. A fund’s price per share is
determined by the market and is usually different from the value
per share of the fund’s underlying holdings, or net asset value.  Hedge funds and other investors who buy the shares at a
discount to underlying holdings can profit from increasing
prices should market sentiment change. A buyback lifts the share
price for investors seeking to sell and reduces dilution of
dividends for those opting to stick with the fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  