-- Buy McGraw-Hill Stock After Lawsuit Plunge, Analyst Says
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-02-05T15:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/buy-mcgraw-hill-stock-after-lawsuit-plunge-analyst-says.html
Investors should buy stock in McGraw-
Hill Cos., owner of  Standard & Poor’s , as the risk posed by the
U.S. lawsuit against the credit-rating company is manageable,
according to Peter Appert, an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co.  The U.S.  Justice Department  filed a complaint yesterday in
in Los Angeles, accusing McGraw-Hill and S&P of three types of
fraud, the first federal case against a ratings company for
grades related to the credit crisis. McGraw-Hill fell 13.8
percent yesterday after saying it expected the suit and dropped
8 percent to $46.51 at 9:59 a.m. in New York.  “Litigation risk has proven manageable,” Appert said
today in a report. “After four years of extensive discovery,
the long sought ’smoking gun’ that would prove fraud has failed
to materialize.”  McGraw-Hill (MHP)  may rise to $85 within two years and is
unlikely to fall below $43 due to its climbing profits, Appert
said. He also recommended that investors buy stock in  Moody’s
Corp. (MCO) , which dropped 11 percent yesterday to $49.45. Moody’s,
which was not sued, may climb to $86 in two years, he said.  The two companies’ stocks may be “dead money” over the
next three to six months as investors adjust their expectations
of litigation risk, Appert said.  “A DOJ lawsuit would be entirely without factual or legal
merit,” S&P said in a statement yesterday before the case was
filed. “It would disregard the central facts that S&P reviewed
the same subprime mortgage data as the rest of the market,
including U.S. government officials who in 2007 publicly stated
that problems in the subprime market appeared to be contained.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  