-- Buying ‘Double Happiness’ Reveals China’s Tobacco Battle
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-06T04:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/buying-double-happiness-reveals-china-s-tobacco-battle.html
As Gao Jie browses a Beijing  tobacco
store  for Lunar New Year gifts, she sees little to deter her
except possibly the price.  The 23-year-old office worker pays 240 yuan ($39) -- more
than a day’s average wage in the Chinese capital -- for a carton
of locally made Shuangxi (or “Double Happiness”) cigarettes.
The package is wrapped in shiny red paper with gold writing and
bears no graphic reminders that tobacco use is the biggest
killer in China. Only a note in plain type at the bottom of the
pack warns that “smoking causes harm to health.”  “My father feels very proud when he can say ‘my daughter
bought these for me in Beijing’ when passing out cigarettes to
his friends,” Gao said, clutching the purchase she plans to
take on the 11-hour train ride to her family in Dalian.  In the war against tobacco in China, the world’s largest
cigarette market, the toughest battle happens at Lunar New Year.
As countries from Canada to Australia intensify warnings, raise
taxes and remove logos from packs, China has balked at
tarnishing the image of cigarettes, the most commonly exchanged
gift during the week-long holiday, which begins Saturday. That’s
helped preserve tobacco’s prestige and served to promote the
addictive habit, blamed for 1 million deaths in the country each
year.  Tobacco presents a  dilemma  in China, also the world’s
biggest producer of the aromatic leaves. The State Tobacco
Monopoly Administration, the industry regulator, runs the
world’s biggest cigarette maker,  China National Tobacco Corp. 
Even male doctors, 60 percent of whom smoked in 1996, find
exchanging cigarettes to be a sign of professional and personal
success, a  2011 study  in the Journal Tobacco Control found.  Hard to Refuse  Smokers find it hard to quit because it’s difficult to
refuse offers of cigarettes from others, and taking offers of
cigarettes is one of the most frequently cited reasons for
initiating smoking, according to the research, which was
supported by the National Cancer Institute.  Cigarettes are given as gifts in many societies and were
frequently exchanged in the U.S. from at least the 1930s before
falling out of favor in the 60s.  British American Tobacco Plc 
and  Philip Morris International Inc.  studied the culture of
gifting and offering cigarettes among Chinese and used the
information to establish a premium image for their brands,
Alexandria Chu and colleagues at the University of California,
San Francisco, wrote in the study.  ‘Social Currency’  “What is unique to China, however, is the existence of
certain domestic, luxury-branded cigarettes, which may cost more
than a month’s salary,” said Yvette Chang, associate director
at the World Lung Foundation in New York. “It is this
perception of high value, and the aspiration to that value, that
makes cigarettes such a pervasive social currency.”  The World Lung Foundation, the World Health Organization
and Chinese health authorities implemented mass media campaigns
in 2009 and 2010 portraying cigarette gifts as offensive and
ominous of illness and death rather than being respectful
gestures. The foundation is a beneficiary of Bloomberg
Philanthropies, set up by New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg,
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg
LP.  Premium cigarettes, which are typically bought as gifts
costing more than 15 yuan ($2.40) a pack, contribute 60 percent
of the profit at China National Tobacco, said Cui Xiaobo, a
health researcher at the  Capital Medical University  in Beijing.
One in six people in Beijing have received cigarettes as a gift,
according to a 2011 survey Cui conducted of 1,343 smokers in
Beijing.  China National Tobacco has a 40.6 percent hold on global
cigarette sales, ahead of Philip Morris International with 14.9
percent, British American Tobacco with 12.2 percent, and  Japan
Tobacco Inc.  with 8.3 percent, according to Euromonitor
International.  $19 Billion Profit  China’s cigarette monopoly had net income of 117.7 billion
yuan ($19 billion) in 2010 on sales of 770.4 billion yuan,
according to a rare release of the company’s financial data last
year. The company “will never allow” policies designed to
reduce their attraction, Cui said in an interview.  “It’s impossible for people in China to send gifts printed
with pictures of rotting teeth and cancerous lungs -- that would
be too disgusting,” he said.  Graphic Opposition  Cigarette companies are especially incensed about graphic
warnings because they hurt consumption, said Judith Mackay, a
Hong Kong-based doctor who advises groups such as the World Lung
Foundation on tobacco control.  “They scream if they think anything is effective,” said
Mackay, who was named one of the  most influential people  in the
world by Time magazine in 2007 in recognition of her work
campaigning for stricter tobacco controls.  Cigarette sales in China will expand an average of 13.5
percent a year to reach 2 trillion yuan ($321 billion) by 2016,
according to London-based Euromonitor. Rules banning smoking in
public places from May 2011 have been criticized for being
ineffective because of poor enforcement and smoking cessation
aids, such as Johnson & Johnson’s  Nicorette  gum, have struggled
to attract customers.  The measures the government has taken “are not forecast to
have much impact on the volume consumption of tobacco,”
Euromonitor said in a November report, adding that the market
for smoking cessation aids remains “negligible.”  320 Million Smokers  The country has about 320 million smokers. The government
pledged in December to try to reduce smoking prevalence to a
quarter of the adult population by 2015 from 28 percent in 2010.
Still, it avoided adopting a WHO recommendation that packs carry
graphic deterrents.  In the U.S., 19 percent of adults smoke cigarettes, the
Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
 estimates .  Over the next two years, the WHO will work with China’s
Ministry of Health to introduce a national smoke-free law.  “This needs to be an important health and economic
development priority for China, and having a national law with
teeth and with an enforcement mechanism is really badly
needed,” said  Douglas Bettcher , Geneva-based director of the
organization’s Tobacco Free Initiative, in a telephone
interview.  Reducing deaths in China from heart disease and stroke, for
which smoking is a main contributor, by 1 percent a year through
2040 could generate economic value equal to 68 percent of
China’s 2010 real gross domestic product, or $10.7 trillion, the
World Bank said in a report published in 2011.  Even still, the consequences of smoking aren’t enough to
dissuade Gao, the Beijing office worker, from buying cigarettes
for relatives and bosses.  “I know it’s unhealthy, but they will still smoke even if
I don’t buy,” she said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  