-- HTC Tumbles by Limit as Forecast Misses Estimates: Taipei Mover
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-02-05T08:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/htc-tumbles-by-limit-as-forecast-misses-estimates-taipei-mover.html
HTC Corp. (2498) ,  Taiwan ’s largest
smartphone maker, fell by the daily limit in Taipei trading
after forecasting quarterly sales and profitability below
analyst estimates.  The phone-maker plunged 6.8 percent to NT$266, the lowest
since Nov. 30, at the close. It has dropped 11 percent this year.
First-quarter sales will be NT$50 billion ($1.7 billion) to
NT$60 billion, the company said yesterday, compared with the
NT$64.8 billion expected by analysts.  HTC anticipates a sixth straight decline in quarterly sales
as it struggles to compete with Apple Inc., Samsung Electronics
Co. and Chinese suppliers. The Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company
dropped out of the world’s five biggest smartphone vendors in
the three months ended December.  “It remains the biggest short in handset land,” Adnaan Ahmad, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London  wrote in a Feb. 4
report. “Structurally, there is only one way for the stock to
go.” He rates the company sell.  HTC forecast first-quarter gross margin of 21 percent to 23
percent, which also trailed expectations. It predicted that
operating margin will fall from a record low last quarter.  Macquarie Group Ltd. analyst Daniel Chang also downgraded
the stock to underperform. The company now has the equivalent of
19 sell  ratings , 11 holds and four buys, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The phonemaker’s  net income  dropped 73 percent last year,
while revenue declined 38 percent. It is counting on the M7
handset, which will be released on Feb. 19, to revive sales.  The new model “needs to be on another planet” to drive
earnings growth, Berenberg’s Ahmad wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 