-- HCA Profit Outlook Reflects Rise in Unpaid Hospital Bills
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-02-05T21:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/hca-forecasts-full-year-earnings-less-than-analysts-estimates.html
HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) , the largest for-
profit U.S. hospital chain, gave an earnings forecast for this
year that was lower than analysts’ estimates as recent revenue
gains become overshadowed by unpaid patient bills.  Earnings excluding one-time items will be $3 to $3.30 a
share, the Nashville, Tennessee-based company said today in a
statement. Analysts were expecting $3.46, the average of 24
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Fourth-quarter profit was 91
cents a share, exceeding analysts’  estimates  of 82 cents.  HCA, which runs about 162 hospitals and 112 outpatient
surgery centers, benefited last quarter from flu-related
admissions. While revenue rose about 9 percent to $8.4 billion,
a 67 percent surge in provisions for patient debt the company
deems “doubtful” reflects problematic admissions through the
emergency room, or more uncompensated and charity care, said
 Vicki Bryan , an analyst at debt researcher Gimme Credit LLC.  “The revenue is higher from higher admissions from the
flu, but those are lower-margin” patients, Bryan said in a
telephone interview. “This will be something to watch across
the sector.”  HCA fell less than 1 percent to $37.51 at the close of  New
York  trading. The shares  gained  37 percent last year as hospital
stocks rallied on prospects for millions of newly insured
patients as the 2010 Affordable Care Act begins to be fully
implemented next year.  CFO Comments  It’s too early to determine the effect of the health law
because there are so many unknowns, including utilization by the
uninsured and reimbursement in exchanges, R. Milton Johnson,
HCA’s president and chief financial officer, told investors
today on a conference call.  “We aren’t going to give guidance on 2014 health-care
reform today,” he said. “Hopefully later this year we’ll be
able to give you this information.”  That uncertainty rattled investors, many of whom aren’t
aware there are still many unknowns about how reform will affect
hospitals, Brian Tanquilut, an analyst with Jefferies & Co. in
 Los Angeles , said in an interview.  Tanquilut said the expansion of U.S. government-
administered health programs starting in 2014 should still
benefit HCA and other hospital companies that have high levels
of uncompensated care.  Cash Flow  Sheryl Skolnick, an analyst at CRT Capital in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said the lower-than-expected forecast shouldn’t be
cause for alarm.  “There’s no problem here, management is being typically
conservative,” Skolnick said in a telephone interview. “The
$4.1 billion in  cash flow  is amazing.”  The company reported $4.1 billion in cash from operating
activities in 2012, a 6.1 percent jump from 2011. HCA’s earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization -- a
measure of cash flow called Ebitda -- rose about 7.7 percent
last year to $6.5 billion on an adjusted basis. Adjusted Ebitda
for 2013 will be $6.25 billion to $6.5 billion, HCA said.  Revenue for 2013 will rise to a range of $33.5 billion to
$34.5 billion, the company said. That would be an increase from
$33 billion in 2012 after adjusting for doubtful accounts.  Acquisition Growth  For the fourth-quarter,  net income  fell to $314 million, or
68 cents a share, from $1.9 billion, or $4.25, a year earlier,
the company said.  Much of the company’s growth in recent periods had been
because of acquisitions, including its $1.45 billion buyout in
2011 of a partner’s stake in the Denver-based HealthOne hospital
system.  “When you look at acquisitions, they’re not able to
sustain their rate of growth,” Bryan said.  HCA also will have costs this year after a judge in
 Missouri  ordered the company in January to pay $162 million
because it didn’t make agreed upon improvements to hospitals it
purchased in  Kansas City .  The company was taken public in 2011 by an investment group
led by Bain Capital LLC of  Boston  and New York-based KKR & Co.
Bain and KKR remain the company’s two  largest shareholders , with
each holding stakes of about 20 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  