-- Cadillac Sales Fall in China as GM Posts Record Month in January
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-05T07:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/cadillac-sales-fall-in-china-as-gm-posts-record-month-in-january.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  said Cadillac
sales dropped last month in China, bucking gains by Buick and
 Chevrolet  that helped the automaker post record monthly
deliveries in the world’s largest vehicle market.  The Detroit-based automaker sold 1,570 Cadillacs last
month, compared with 2,987 units a year earlier, as it phases
out the SLS model, the company  reported  today. The 47 percent
decline is the sharpest on record and lowest monthly volume
since 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg stretching
back to 2009.  “Cadillac is in the process of phasing out the SLS model,
which will be replaced by the new XTS this quarter,” Dayna
Hart, a Shanghai-based GM spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “We
also will soon start selling the new model 2013 SRX.”  The slowdown in deliveries illustrates the challenges GM
Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson faces in expanding the
luxury brand as part of efforts to increase profit margins. The
carmaker plans to introduce one Cadillac model a year to China
and expand dealerships to help it compete against premium
marques including  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi and Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG.  GM’s China deliveries climbed 26 percent last month to
310,765 units from a year ago, a monthly record, led by a 36
percent increase in Wuling sales, according to the statement.
Buick and Chevrolet sales both gained 22 percent.  Economists and analysts typically calculate January-
February figures to smooth out distortions caused by the
weeklong Lunar New Year holidays, which fell in January last
year and February this year.  Sales Outlets  The U.S. automaker has targeted to outpace China’s average
industry growth this year as it prepares to open more
dealerships in the world’s largest auto market.  GM will open 400 more showrooms across its brands in  China 
this year, bringing the total to about 4,200, its head of China
operations Bob Socia said in December. Of that, about 40
Cadillac dealerships will be added to the around 160 outlets it
currently has.  Deliveries at GM and its Chinese joint ventures jumped 11
percent to hit a record 2.84 million units last year. GM said in
2011 it planned to invest as much as $7 billion in the five
years to 2015 in China.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  