-- California Judges Say Cities Might Be Able to Ban Pot Clubs
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-02-05T20:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/california-judges-say-cities-might-be-able-to-ban-pot-clubs-1-.html
California  Supreme Court justices
voiced doubts that the state’s medical marijuana law bars cities
and counties from passing laws prohibiting pot dispensaries.  A Riverside, California, medical pot store sued the city to
overturn its ordinance barring dispensaries on grounds that
under the state’s Compassionate Use Act, patients are shielded
from certain state criminal drug laws and cities can’t disallow
pot stores, only regulate their operation or location.  Justice Goodwin Liu said during a hearing today in San
Francisco that while the act shields patients from state
sanctions, it doesn’t address actions against medical marijuana
taken by local authorities.  “It’s a limited immunity from certain kinds of state
actions, but it says nothing about local sanctions,” Liu said.  “If the Legislature wanted to prevent localities from
banning the dispensaries, why didn’t they say so expressly?”
Justice Marvin Baxter asked.  Riverside’s Inland Empire Patients’ Health and Wellness
center is one of hundreds of pot stores in California created
since voters approved the state’s Compassionate Use Act in 1996.
The law legalized marijuana as a medical treatment for pain and
ailments.  More than 170 California localities have imposed bans on
cannabis stores, according to David Nick, Inland Empire’s
attorney.  Lower courts have upheld the Riverside ban and the
California Supreme Court agreed to consider the pot club’s
appeal. A ruling will be issued within 90 days.  The case is Riverside v. Inland Empire Patients’ Health and
Wellness Center, S198638, California Supreme Court (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  