-- California Bus in Fatal Crash Had Previous Brake Issues
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-02-06T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/california-bus-in-fatal-crash-had-previous-brake-issues.html
The bus involved in a Southern
 California  crash that killed seven people Feb. 3 was ordered off
the road twice last year for having defective brakes, before the
company was cleared by U.S. regulators to operate without
restrictions.  U.S. safety  records  show the bus operator, Scapadas Magicas
LLC, received a “satisfactory” rating after its most recent
review was completed Jan. 9 by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration. The company operated three buses at that time,
according to review documents.  The government’s dealings with the National City,
California-based company show it isn’t easy to keep defective
buses off the road even when there are red flags for regulators.
The Transportation Department has taken a harder line on bus
enforcement since its largest-ever safety sweep last May, when
it shut down 26 so-called Chinatown operators.  The vehicle involved in the California crash had been taken
out of service after roadside inspections on May 25 and July 11,
according to the FMCSA’s website. The bus’s wheel fasteners were
loose or missing on May 25. It had a damaged windshield on the
July stop and again on Oct. 16. During the three inspections,
police found a total of 17 safety violations, the records show.  The bus was en route to Tijuana,  Mexico  after a day trip to
San Bernardino National Forest Feb. 3 when it struck a car and a
pickup truck before rolling over. The  California Highway Patrol 
is examining the bus’s brakes and other mechanical systems,
Officer Kevin Reese said in a telephone interview.  Systems Checked  “We’re going through the entire braking system,” Reese
said. “It tends to be something we look at in a crash like
this.”  Investigators were also examining the bus’s steering and
acceleration. It’s too soon to make any conclusions about what
happened mechanically, including with the brakes, Reese said.  The  National Transportation Safety Board  sent investigators
and experts in motor-carrier operations to the crash site, about
80 miles east of  Los Angeles  near Yucaipa, California. The
highway patrol initially reported eight fatalities and revised
the tally to seven.  Brakes are the most common reason buses are taken out of
service, said Stephen Keppler, executive director of the
Commercial Vehicle Safety Alliance, a non-profit group based in
Greenbelt,  Maryland , that works on truck and bus safety.  ‘Safety Culture’  Typically, state police supervise a bus being towed away or
see that an on-site repair is started for a bus with defective
brakes, Keppler said. It would be up to the company to file
paperwork later to show that the repairs were done, he said.  A compliance review audits a company’s records and safety
management practices to see if they comply with federal law,
said Duane DeBruyne, a FMCSA spokesman. “It’s a look at the
safety culture of the company, which is then verified by random
roadside inspections,” he said.  U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said yesterday he
would meet with FMCSA Administrator Anne Ferro to go over
details of the crash.  DeBruyne deferred questions about the crash to the NTSB and
the California Highway Patrol, citing U.S. Transportation
Department policy of not commenting on open investigations.  Cracking down on unsafe bus operators made it onto the
latest NTSB “most-wanted list” of improvements.  The board last year wrapped up investigations of deadly
East Coast wrecks involving so-called Chinatown bus lines. It
has put renewed focus on poorly trained drivers, inattentive
management and the FMCSA’s inability to close companies with
known safety deficiencies.  Nine passengers were killed and 39 others injured in a Dec.
30 bus crash in eastern  Oregon  involving a Canadian company, Mi
Joo Tour & Travel. The driver in that crash had driven 92 hours
over a seven-day period, according to the Transportation
Department. Federal regulations cap driving time at 70 hours per
week.  The Transportation Department declared two of the
Coquitlam, British Columbia-based company’s drivers “imminent
hazards to public safety” after the accident and banned them
from operating a bus or truck in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  