-- Angry Tory Lawmakers Turn on Cameron Over Gay Marriage
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-02-05T14:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/cameron-facing-tory-backlash-on-gay-marriage-in-u-k-vote.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  faced a
backlash from Tory lawmakers over his plans to legalize gay
marriage, highlighting growing dissatisfaction in his own party.  At least 100 Conservative members of Parliament -- out of
303 in total -- may oppose the legislation in a vote in the
House of Commons in London today, even though Cameron has
personally campaigned to allow same-sex marriages, according to
newspapers and Tory lawmakers.  “People of faith will find that faith trampled upon and
that to us is intolerable,” one Conservative lawmaker, Roger Gale, told the Commons. “It’s Alice in Wonderland territory,
Orwellian almost, for a government of any persuasion to come
along and try and rewrite the lexicon. It will not do.”  While Cameron gathered plaudits among his own lawmakers
after pledging a referendum on the European Union last month,
data the day after his speech showed the economy teetering on
the edge of a triple-dip recession and opinion polls show the
Tories trailing behind the Labour opposition. Conservative
activists say gay marriage could cost the party enough votes to
force it out of power at the 2015 general election.  “Gay marriage is the lens through which discontent with
Cameron is channeled and magnified,” Mark Wickham-Jones,
professor of politics at Bristol University, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s a proxy for a deeper split.”  More than 20 current and former Conservative constituency
chairmen delivered a letter to Cameron on Feb. 3 urging him to
delay any decision on gay marriage. “Resignations from the
party are beginning to multiply and we fear that, if enacted,
this bill will lead to significant damage to the  Conservative
Party  in the run-up to the 2015 election,” they said.  Personal Backing  Cameron and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ,
neither of whom was in the House of Commons for the start of the
debate on the bill today, say gay weddings should be allowed,
and the measure is expected to get through, with their Liberal
Democrat coalition partners and most of the  Labour Party 
supporting it.  “This bill is about one thing, it’s about fairness, it’s
about giving those who want to get married the opportunity to do
so while protecting those who don’t agree with same-sex
marriage,” Conservative Equalities Minister Maria Miller told
lawmakers. “All couples who enter a lifelong commitment
together should be able to call it marriage.”  The move is opposed by the newly appointed Archbishop of
Canterbury, Justin Welby, who said yesterday that marriage
should remain “between a man and a woman.”  Free Vote  There will be a so called free vote on the legislation,
meaning lawmakers will vote according to their consciences
rather than having to follow the instructions of their party
leaders. It means Cameron can argue that he has, technically,
not faced a rebellion if his lawmakers do not back him. The
largest revolt Cameron has faced was in July last year, when 91
Tories defied the leadership to vote against coalition plans to
overhaul the upper, unelected House of Lords.  “Some Tories have deep concerns about gay marriage, but
the issue is symptomatic of a wider concern about a leadership
out of touch with its core support,” Tim Bale, professor of
politics at Queen Mary University  London , said in a telephone
interview. “The economic figures brought them down to earth
with a bump, and many are now realizing how difficult it will be
to win the election and wondering why they are alienating core
voters.”  Poll Findings  A ComRes Ltd. poll published last night found 34 percent of
respondents saying the proposed law makes the Tories less
appealing, against 15 percent who said it increased the appeal
of the Conservatives. ComRes surveyed 2,050 adults between Feb.
1 and Feb. 3.  Nationally, the most recent  YouGov Plc poll  gave the Tories
30 percent support, 15 percentage points behind Labour. The
survey of 1,712 adults was taken on Feb. 3 and Feb. 4.  The Mail on Sunday newspaper reported on Jan. 26 that Adam Afriyie, a rank-and-file Tory lawmaker, was planning to stand as
a “stalking horse” candidate to challenge Cameron to a
leadership contest.  The Conservatives lost a potential 20 extra seats at the
next election in 2015 after being defeated in a Commons vote
last week on proposed changes to parliamentary district
boundaries. Some lawmakers blame Cameron for not insisting the
change was non-negotiable in the coalition negotiations that
formed the government in 2010. Even more blame their Liberal
Democrat coalition partners for blocking the changes. They say
that being in coalition means the Tory agenda is being
sidelined.  Church Decisions  Ministers have watered down a “quadruple lock” protecting
religious organizations that do not want to conduct  same-sex
marriages  and will allow the Church of  England  and the Church in
 Wales  to make their own decisions on holding ceremonies.  The other three aspects of the lock remain, with religious
organizations having to opt in to hold same-sex marriages,
individual ministers having to be willing to conduct them and
each individual place of worship needing to be registered to
hold the ceremonies.  The common-law duty of vicars in the Church of England and
Church in Wales to marry people in their parishes will not be
extended to same-sex couples, Miller has said.  Quakers, Unitarians and some branches of Liberal Judaism
have campaigned to hold same-sex marriages and are already
permitted to hold civil partnerships for gay and lesbian couples
in places of worship.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  