-- The Obscure 141-Year-Old Law That Explains the Deficit
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-05T19:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/can-we-blame-the-deficit-on-an-obscure-141-year-old-law-.html
Cutting the U.S. budget deficit has
always been a question of politics, not math. The seemingly
simple approach -- spend less, raise more or some combination of
the two -- has long eluded Congress.  A mining  law  that dates to 1872 helps explain why it’s so
difficult to disrupt the dysfunctional status quo. The General
Mining Act,  conceived  during the Ulysses S. Grant administration
to encourage development of the frontier, allowed prospectors to
remove  gold  and other minerals from U.S. public lands without
paying royalties. The law has long permitted highly profitable
mining companies to extract minerals for free -- resources that
are the property of every American.  It’s just one of many outrageous giveaways -- the
 subsidies ,  tax preferences  and exclusions enjoyed largely by
energy and natural-resource companies -- that Congress has been
loath to eliminate, despite longtime efforts by fiscal hawks and
environmentalists.  Ending any one of these outdated incentives wouldn’t close
the U.S. budget deficit, which the Congressional Budget Office
this week  estimates  will total $845 billion in 2013. Combine
them, though, and the savings would add up to tens of billions
over a decade -- money that could go a long way toward winnowing
the deficit and preventing more drastic cuts to safety net
programs.  Consider a 1977  law  intended to finance the cleanup of
abandoned U.S. coal mines. Coal producers are levied annual fees
to help pay for the work, and this money, which  amounted  to $485
million in 2011, is distributed to 14 states, with states
keeping 50 percent of the money collected within their borders.
Yet four states that have finished their mine reclamation work
continue to receive money. In 2011, for example, the Interior
Department paid $140 million to  Wyoming , and the state has
claimed $10 million of it to finance a  basketball arena  at the
University of Wyoming.  The Obama administration’s 2012 budget proposal  recommended 
cutting off funds to states that have completed reclamation and
setting up a competitive grant program to direct funds to the
nation’s most hazardous sites. That would save the U.S. $1.2
billion over a decade, the Office of Management and Budget
 estimates . Rather than adopt this approach, however, lawmakers
 last year  simply  capped  at $15 million the amount a state can
get if it has completed reclamation. Funds will continue to flow
to states that no longer need the money for mine cleanup.  Meanwhile, the 1872 mining law dictates that taxpayers
continue to foot the entire bill for cleaning abandoned gold,
silver and other mineral mines across the U.S., which has cost
them more than $2.6 billion since 1998,  according  to the
Government Accountability Office. The tab could swell to as much
as $54 billion, according to the Environmental Protection
Agency, yet a provision in the 1872 law keeps the mining
industry from paying anything at all. The White House estimates
a fee could increase annual revenue by $1.8 billion over the
next decade.  The U.S. could also gain by charging royalties on the
 roughly  $1 billion worth of hard rock minerals extracted each
year from public lands, much as it does on oil, gas and coal.
Royalties from those industries generated about $10 billion in
2011.  Powerful mining-industry allies in the Senate, including
Majority Leader Harry Reid, have resisted  attempts  to change the
1872 mining law, however. Reid, the son of a gold miner,
represents Nevada, home to several mining companies such as
 Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , which has  contributed  almost $100,000 to
the senator over his career. And Democrats broadly have been
reluctant to change the law over fears of losing congressional
seats in Western states. Even Obama opposed charging hard rock
royalties while running for president in 2008, a position that
his advisers say has “evolved.”  This is one reason that Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein
of  California  failed in a 2008 legislative  attempt  to charge
royalties and a reclamation fee, as have  efforts  by others. Now,
Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat who has just become
chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, has
 indicated  he may bring it up again as part of a broader royalty-
related bill.  One way to finally gain approval of such a change could be
to allow states -- such as  Nevada  -- to share in any revenue
generated by a fee, which Reid has indicated is a condition to
changing the law. It’s an imperfect solution because the federal
government would presumably still have to shoulder some of the
tab, but it’s a far better outcome than continuing to forgo any
royalties at all. At a time of severe fiscal straits, the U.S.
should look to tease out revenue any way it can -- and make sure
that Americans get fair compensation for their precious natural
resources.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 