-- Canadian Dollar Approaches One-Week High on Risk Appetite
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-02-05T22:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/canadian-dollar-climbs-as-european-data-drives-risk-rally.html
Canada ’s dollar approached the
strongest level in more than a week versus its U.S. counterpart
as crude oil, the nation’s biggest export, and stocks rose amid
a jump in risk appetite.  The Canadian currency dropped yesterday versus the
greenback as investors sought safety amid concern political
turmoil in  Europe  would intensify the region’s debt crisis.
Appetite for higher-yielding assets increased today after a
gauge of European services shrank less than first estimated.  “We’re really seeing it recapture some of the ground lost,
and some of that could be in response to what we’re seeing,”
Emanuella Enenajor, an economist at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit, said by phone from Toronto.
“ Oil prices  look a bit firmer today, equity markets look a bit
firmer, and you’re also seeing some of those fears from
yesterday dissipating.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, gained 0.3 percent to 99.56
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It reached 99.48
cents yesterday, the strongest since Jan. 23, before dropping as
much as 0.3 percent. One Canadian dollar purchases $1.0044.  Benchmark  10-year government bonds  fell, pushing yields up
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.02 percent.
The price of the 2.75 percent securities maturing in June 2022
decreased 26 cents to C$106.21.  Bond Auctions  The government will sell C$2.7 billion ($2.7 billion) of
three-year notes tomorrow. The 1.25 percent securities are due
in February 2016. The  Bank of Canada  will provide more details
on Feb. 7 of its two-year note auction next week.  The Canadian dollar strengthened as crude oil and other
commodities advanced. An index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in Europe’s  services industries  rose to 48.6, from 47.8
in December, London-based Markit Economics Ltd. said in a
report. That’s above an initial estimate of 48.3 published on
Jan. 24.  “Just looking at some of the data overnight, there’s some
modest positives,” Mazen Issa, Canada macro strategist at
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD Securities unit, said from Toronto in
a telephone interview. “And then at the same time we did have a
fairly sharp selloff yesterday, so I think it’s just a bit of a
bounce back.”  The loonie strengthened beyond its 200-day moving average
of 99.89 cents for a fourth day. Moving averages, which indicate
momentum, are seen by some traders as potential turning points.  The loonie slid on Jan. 25 to C$1.0100 per dollar, the
weakest level in six months. It appreciated to 98.16 cents, the
strongest in almost three months, on Jan. 11.  Crude, Stocks  Futures on crude oil advanced as much as 0.9 percent today
to $97.07 per barrel in  New York  before trading at $96.68, up
0.5 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1 percent
after dropping 1.2 percent yesterday.  S&P’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities added 0.4 percent.  Raw
materials  including oil account for about half of Canada’s
export revenue.  “It’s really in a state of flux, it’s just looking for
direction,” Eimear Daly, a currency-market analyst at Monex
Europe Ltd., said of the loonie by telephone from  London . “We
had a massive selloff yesterday because of what was happening in
Europe.”  Spanish Premier  Mariano Rajoy  faced calls to resign after
reports of illegal payments emerged, and in  Italy , a poll showed
former prime minister  Silvio Berlusconi  narrowed the
frontrunner’s lead in elections later this month. Berlusconi was
pressured to resign in 2011 as soaring bond yields threatened
the country’s ability to avoid defaulting on its debts.  Less Bearish  Options traders were the least bearish on the loonie in
more than a week, with the three month 25-delta risk reversal
rate touching 0.913 percentage point, the least since Jan. 24.
The rate shows the premium charged for the right to buy the U.S.
dollar versus contracts to sell.  Statistics Canada  will report Feb. 8 that the country’s
 unemployment rate  increased to 7.2 percent last month, from 7.1
percent in December, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 23 economists. Net employment grew in
January by 5,000 jobs, economists forecast, compared with a
revised increase of 31,200 the previous month.  The loonie is “probably going to track sideways until
Friday’s unemployment release,” David Doyle, a strategist at
Macquarie Capital Markets, said by phone from Toronto. “That to
me is the big event on the docket for Canada this week, and it’s
hard to see it moving materially before that.”  The Canadian dollar has fallen 0.7 percent this year among
10 developed-nation currencies monitored by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The U.S. currency has declined 0.2
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  