-- Carlton Says Investors to Spend $10 Billion in Iberia
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2013-02-05T07:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/carlton-says-investors-to-spend-10-billion-in-iberia.html
Carlton Group Inc.’s clients have
earmarked 7.5 billion euros ($10 billion) to buy real estate in
Spain and Portugal over the next 12 to 18 months as risks
diminish and prices adjust to what buyers expect to pay.  “A combination of reforms in Spain, stabilization of
sovereign debt yields and reduction of risk perception for
Europe as a whole has made investment in Iberia far more
attractive,” Javier Beltran, head of Spain and Portugal for the
U.S.-based real estate investment bank, said in an interview.  Investors are growing more optimistic after the European
Central Bank pledged to do “whatever it takes” to keep the
common currency from splintering, which helped cut Spain’s
borrowing costs. The premium investors demand to lend to
Portugal rather than Germany for a decade declined to 4.8
percentage points from 6.4 points in July.  Carlton, which opened offices in Spain in June, is
currently commissioned to sell three hotels in Spain and
Portugal, an office building in Madrid and a shopping mall in
the south of Spain, Beltran said. He declined to name the seller
or the properties.  The sellers are mainly Spanish banks, family offices and
companies disposing of assets to cut debt, Beltran said. Buyers
are real estate funds, rich individuals from Europe, the U.S.,
Canada, Latin America and the Middle East.  “It’s impossible to give a generic figure as to how much
real estate prices have adjusted in Spain since the 2007 peak,”
he said. “It depends on asset class, quality of asset and
location.”  Values Drop  Spanish office prices have fallen by 30 percent to 55
percent since 2007 and shopping malls have lost 30 percent to 60
percent of their value, Beltran said. Hotel prices are also down
30 percent to 60 percent and home prices have fallen 35 percent
to 70 percent. The steepest decline has been in land, with a 90
percent drop in some cases.  Total investment in commercial property in Spain was 1.81
billion euros last year, down from 3.26 billion euros in 2011,
according to a Jan. 15 report by Deloitte & Touche LLP.  The Carlton Group’s Iberian unit, which works with assets
priced from 40 million euros to 800 million euros, expects a
“slight” recovery in the hotel industry by the third or fourth
quarter, followed by offices, Beltran said. “Prices and
occupancy rates of shopping malls and homes will come later,”
he added, “The key to price recovery is employment, but we
don’t expect to see an improvement in that until 2014.”  The European Commission signaled this week that it may
recommend easing Spain’s budget goals for the fourth time in a
year as unemployment in the euro region’s fourth-largest economy
rose to a record 26 percent at the end of Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy’s first year in power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 