-- Ceres Plans Canada Export Hub to Boost Grain, Oil Sales to U.S.
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-02-05T22:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/ceres-plans-canada-export-hub-to-boost-grain-oil-sales-to-u-s-.html
Ceres Global Ag Corp. (CRP) , an agriculture
investment firm, is building a C$90 million ($90 million)
Canadian export hub at the North Dakota border to expand
shipping capacity for grains and crude oil into the U.S.  The 1,500-acre facility in Northgate, Saskatchewan, will be
linked to BNSF Railway Co.’s U.S. network, Ceres said today in a
statement. The Toronto-based company, which owns 15 grain-
storage facilities in Ontario and the U.S. and a Saskatchewan
rail line that transports oil, said the port eventually will be
able to handle 40 million bushels of grain annually and 70,000
barrels a day of crude.  Canada is the world’s second-largest wheat exporter and the
largest supplier of crude oil to the U.S. The government ended
the Canadian Wheat Board’s monopoly on grain marketing last
year.  “There are a lot more opportunities for Western Canadian
farmers to market their grains,” Michael Detlefsen, the
president of Ceres, said in a telephone interview from Calgary.
“We think there is more demand in the U.S. for Canadian grains,
wheat in particular, than might have been served by supply in
the past.”  The Northgate hub will ease export bottlenecks that
occurred during the past few years at major Canadian ports,
including  Vancouver , Detlefsen said.  Ceres plans two rail loops with the ability to handle 120
cars on each, with half of the activity and space for grains,
and the other for oil transport. Construction will begin in a
few months, with operations starting later this year. Ceres is
partnering with  Scoular Co. , a privately-held agriculture
marketing firm based in Omaha,  Nebraska .  Ceres rose 0.6 percent to C$7.24 on the Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Composite Index at 2:51 p.m. in Toronto, snapping
three days of losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  