-- Chelsea Tries to Keep Goalkeeper Courtois, Mail Says: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-05T08:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/chelsea-tries-to-keep-goalkeeper-courtois-mail-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Chelsea Goalkeepers  Chelsea is facing a fight to keep goalkeeper Thibaut
Courtois because  Atletico Madrid  wants the on-loan Belgian for
at least another season and is ready to offer him a permanent
move in the offseason, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Blues may consider offering Courtois, 20, an improved
contract and are said to have assured him that he’s seen as the
long-term successor to  Petr Cech , the Mail added.  Cech may miss Chelsea’s next two matches after breaking a
finger during a 3-2 loss at Newcastle three days ago, the  Daily
Mirror reported .  Shingles Shock  Manchester United defender  Phil Jones  is in doubt for the
 Champions League  matches against Real  Madrid  after contracting
shingles, the  Sun reported .  The infection can take as much as four weeks to clear,
putting Jones in danger of missing next week’s round of 16
opening game in Madrid and the March 5 return match in
Manchester, the newspaper added.  Hughes’s Payoff  Queens Park Rangers are still locked in a payoff dispute
with former manager  Mark Hughes , whom the Premier League club
fired in November, the  Daily Mail reported .  Hughes, who had 19 months left on a contract worth 3
million pounds ($4.7 million) a year, is taking QPR to an
arbitration tribunal as he seeks the remaining 4.5 million
pounds of his deal, the newspaper added.  Remy Blow  QPR striker Loic Remy, who joined the club for 8 million
pounds on Jan. 16, may be ruled out for as long as 10 weeks
because of a groin injury sustained in training last week, the
 Daily Express reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  