-- Chile Economy Grew Faster-Than-Forecast 4.7% in December
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-02-05T11:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/chile-economy-grew-faster-than-forecast-4-7-in-december-1-.html
Chile’s economy  grew 4.7 percent in
December from the year earlier, beating estimates made by
analysts on gains in the service and retail industries, the
central bank said.  The median estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was for the economy to expand 3.7 percent in December. The
economy as measured by the central bank’s Imacec index, a proxy
for gross domestic product, rose 1.2 percent in December from
the previous month on a seasonally-adjusted basis, the bank said
in a report posted on its website today.  December’s growth brings expansion for the whole of last
year in the world’s top copper producer to 5.6 percent,
according to calculations made by Bloomberg based on central
bank data. Growth was driven by investment and domestic demand,
which pushed up  retail sales  and imports even as industrial
production stagnated and export growth weakened.  “The recent pattern of growth driven by domestic demand
had resulted in a widening of the current account deficit which,
as previously noted, if it continued and expanded, could become
a factor of greater external vulnerability,” the central bank
board said in minutes published Feb. 1 from their January
meeting on  interest rates .  Policy makers have kept the  key rate  at 5 percent for 12
straight monthly meetings, giving Chile the highest borrowing
costs among major rate-setting Latin American nations behind
 Brazil .  Current Account  GDP expanded 5.7 percent in the third quarter from the
previous year, led by a 13 percent increase in investment and
6.4 percent gain in private consumption, according to central
bank data.  The current account deficit widened to 7.4 percent of GDP
in the third quarter from 4.9 percent in the year-ago period.
Imports grew 2.5 percent in the third quarter while exports
contracted as Chileans stepped up purchases of foreign-made
durable and consumer goods, the bank said.  Economists surveyed in January 2012 by the central bank had
expected the Chilean economy to expand just 4 percent for the
whole year after GDP climbed 6 percent in 2011. The bank is
scheduled to publish fourth-quarter GDP and current account data
on March 18.  The peso rose by less than 0.1 percent to 472.95 per  U.S.
dollar  as of 8:34 a.m. local time today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 