-- Abe Calls China Radar Targeting of Japan Vessel Provocative
-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-02-06T08:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/china-targeted-japanese-naval-vessel-with-radar-nhk-reports.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe 
denounced China’s use of weapons-targeting radar on one of
Japan’s naval vessels as provocative, saying the move will
undermine efforts to ease tensions over a territorial dispute.  “This was a dangerous action that could lead to unforeseen
circumstances,” Abe said today in parliament in Tokyo. “At a
time when there were signs that there could be talks between
China and Japan, it is extremely regrettable that China should
carry out such a one-sided provocation.”  A Chinese ship used fire-control radar on a Japanese
destroyer on Jan. 30, Defense Minister  Itsunori Onodera  told
reporters yesterday in Tokyo. He declined to specify the
location, which broadcaster NHK earlier reported was near
islands in the East China Sea that are claimed by both nations.  The episode impairs recent efforts to ease strains that
have damaged trade ties between Asia’s two biggest economies and
brought calls from the U.S. for a diplomatic resolution. Japan
yesterday issued a separate protest after Chinese ships entered
its waters Feb. 4.  Japan “immediately protested to China through diplomatic
channels, calling strongly for the prevention of any further
such incidents,” Abe said of the radar targeting.  China’s Foreign Ministry is “not aware of this matter,”
spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters in Beijing, adding that
her only knowledge of the incident came from press reports. She
repeated Chinese claims of sovereignty over the islands, called
Diaoyu in China and Senkaku in Japan and the surrounding waters.  Japanese shares rose, with the Nikkei 225 Stock Average
closing at its highest level since September 2008, and the yen
fell after Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said he
would step down next month.  U.S. Concern  The U.S. is “concerned” about the latest incident, which
may escalate tensions and raises risks of an “incident or
miscalculation,” State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland 
said at a press conference in Washington yesterday.  Illuminating a ship with fire-control radar is a “risky”
move because it could invite retaliation, said James Hardy, a
London-based Asia-Pacific editor at IHS Jane’s Defense Weekly.
“It might be one of these situations where an individual
captain on a ship said he was going to make a name for himself
or act beyond his remit,” he said, speaking from Bangalore.  Onodera called the Chinese move “extremely unusual,”
adding that a Japanese helicopter had been similarly targeted
last month. Until now, most contact between Japanese and Chinese
vessels has been between Coast Guard ships or other non-military
vessels that were either unarmed or lightly armed.  Strong Stance  Abe took office as prime minister in December advocating a
stronger stance asserting Japan’s claims on the uninhabited
islands. The administration plans to increase Japan’s defense
budget for the first time in 11 years and boost Coast Guard
spending to cope with mounting incursions by Chinese ships in
waters near the islands.  Tensions showed signs of easing last month after Chinese
Communist Party General Secretary  Xi Jinping  met with the head
of Abe’s junior coalition partner in Beijing. New Komeito Party
leader Natsuo Yamaguchi handed over a personal letter from Abe
and told reporters Xi said he would consider a summit.  People’s Liberation Army General Liu Yuan, the son of
China’s former president Liu Shaoqi, said in an editorial in the
Global Times newspaper on Feb. 4 that the building of the
Chinese economy had reached a critical time, and shouldn’t be
interrupted by accidental events.  “America and Japan fear us catching up, they will do
everything possible to contain China’s development, and we must
be sure to not to be taken in,” he wrote.  Using fire-control radar to illuminate another vessel can
be an indicator of hostile intent, depending on the
circumstances, according to a  manual  of rules of engagement
written under the direction of the U.S. Naval War College.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  