-- China Conducts Record Reverse Repos Before Lunar New Year Break
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-02-05T09:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/china-s-swaps-trade-near-one-week-low-as-pboc-boosts-cash-supply.html
China added a record 450 billion  yuan 
($72 billion) to the financial system using reverse-repurchase
contracts today, helping banks meet increased demand for cash
before the weeklong Lunar New Year break.  The People’s Bank of China offered 14-day  agreements  at a
yield of 3.45 percent, helping push the benchmark money-market
rate down for the first time in seven days. The contracts inject
funds using short-term asset purchases and today’s amount was
the most for a single day and exceeded each of the weekly  totals 
for the past three months, official data show.  “The central bank is making sure that liquidity in the
system is ample to entertain demand before the Chinese New Year
holidays,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a Hong Kong-based strategist
at Societe Generale SA. “The PBOC will continue to smooth
short-term money-market liquidity.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, fell nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage
point, to 3.38 percent in  Shanghai , according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. It
climbed 77 basis points in the last six days as banks hoarded
cash before the holiday, which commences Feb. 11 this year and
is a period in which families exchange gifts, buy new clothes
and get together for meals.  The PBOC injected a net 59 billion yuan into the financial
system in the week ended Jan. 31, following four weeks of
withdrawals, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost to receive
the seven-day repo rate, was little changed at 3.16 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate touched a one-
week low of 3.15 percent earlier.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd.,  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939) , Bank of China Ltd. and  Agricultural
Bank of China Ltd. (601288)  approved new loans of about 370 billion yuan
in January, China Securities Journal reported today, without
citing anyone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  