-- China Approves Income Plan as Wealth Divide Poses Risks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-06T01:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/china-approves-income-plan-as-wealth-divide-poses-risks.html
China’s State Council approved an
income-distribution plan intended to tackle the nation’s wealth
gap, with the government describing the task as huge,
complicated and unable to be completed in a single step.  The 35-point blueprint targets boosting minimum wages to at
least 40 percent of average salaries, loosening controls on
lending and deposit  rates  and increasing spending on education
and affordable housing. State-owned enterprises should
contribute more to the treasury, according to a statement
yesterday on the government’s website.  The gap between rich and poor poses risks for a new
Communist Party leadership, headed by  Xi Jinping , that’s seeking
to maintain a six-decade-long grip on power and sustain the
nation’s  expansion  by boosting domestic demand. The key question
is how effectively the government implements the policies,
according to analysts at Nomura Holdings Inc., Societe Generale
SA and Bank of America Corp.  “It’s a good plan that came a little bit late,”  Yuan Gangming , a researcher with the government’s Chinese Academy of
Social Sciences in Beijing, said in a telephone interview. “The
income gap in China is so big now that it brings huge risks of
derailing China from its growth path.”  The nation’s Gini coefficient was 0.474 in 2012, statistics
bureau data showed last month, above the 0.4 level used by
analysts as a gauge of the potential for social unrest.  Maintaining Growth  Increasing consumption may be key for maintaining growth as
JPMorgan Chase & Co. forecasts that the pace of the nation’s
expansion may slip to 6.5 percent by 2020 compared with 10.5
percent over the past decade.  The Shanghai Composite Index, rose 0.1 percent as of 9:38
a.m. local time, headed for an eighth straight gain in the
benchmark stock gauge.  The plan, under development for several years, was most
recently due to be released by the end of 2012. Caijing magazine
reported in December that the government couldn’t reach a
consensus on a draft by the National Development and Reform
Commission. The Communist Party next month will complete the
second phase of a once-a-decade power transfer that is forecast
to see Xi succeed  Hu Jintao  as president and  Li Keqiang  replace
Premier  Wen Jiabao .  “Deepening reform of income distribution is a very huge
and complicated project, and it can’t be done in one step,” the
government said. Policy makers aim to raise pay for the poor and
rural residents and tackle hidden and illegal income, according
to the statement.  Boost Contribution  The guidelines include directives such as calling for
state-owned companies under the central government to boost
their contribution of returns on equity to the treasury by 5
percentage points in the five years through 2015, the plan said.
That’s a “very disappointing” increase because it’s too small
and will only partly be used for the general public, said  Wang Tao , chief China economist at UBS AG in Hong Kong and a former
International Monetary Fund researcher.  The blueprint also calls for capping salaries of senior
managers at state-owned enterprises and says their pay growth
should be lower than that of the average wage of workers.  The plan reiterated previously announced goals including
doubling per-capita income from 2010 to 2020 and expanding a
property-tax trial. HSBC Holdings Plc estimates the income
target would signal real growth of about 7 percent a year.  Redistribute Wealth  The property tax “is indeed a very important way to
redistribute from the wealthier to low income families,” said
 Shen Jianguang , chief Asia economist at Mizuho Securities Asia
Ltd. in Hong Kong. At the same time, “the resistance to this
new property tax is furious, so how it will be designed and
implemented is a big question mark,” Shen said.  CASS’s Yuan said state companies need to contribute more to
the treasury, the government should intensify a crackdown on
illegal income and poor people must receive more social welfare
coverage after three decades of rapid development in China.  “At the same time, I am not very optimistic about the
implementation of the plan,” Yuan said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  