-- China, Malaysia Plan $3.4 Billion Industrial Park in Kuantan
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-02-05T04:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/china-malaysia-plan-3-4-billion-industrial-park-in-kuantan.html
Chinese and Malaysian companies
agreed to invest 10.5 billion ringgit ($3.4 billion) on an
industrial park in the Southeast Asian nation which will include
steel and aluminum plants as well as a palm oil refinery.  China ’s  Guangxi Beibu Gulf International Port Group  will
jointly build the park in Kuantan with Malaysia’s Pahang state
government and property developer  SP Setia Bhd. (SPSB) , according to a
statement from the East Coast Economic Region Development
Council.  Jia Qinglin , chairman of China’s top advisory body,
attended a ground-breaking ceremony with Malaysia’s Prime
Minister Najib Razak today.  Jia, chairman of the Chinese People’s Political
Consultative Conference, is on a four-day visit aimed at
boosting business ties with the commodities-rich Southeast Asian
nation. Najib proposed building the Malaysia-China Kuantan
Industrial Park after the countries agreed last year to develop
a similar estate in Qinzhou in southern China’s Guangxi region.
Both cities have ports.  “A distinct and competitive supply chain will emerge
between them,” Najib said in a speech. “There will be cross-
border movement of manufactured goods with Kuantan Port and
Qinzhou Port serving as trans-shipment hubs redistributing goods
to markets around the world.”  Guangxi Beibu, SP Setia and the Pahang state government
will invest 2.5 billion ringgit to develop the Malaysian park,
according to the statement. The Chinese company will spend
another 5 billion ringgit to build a steel plant, aluminum
processing facilities and a palm oil refinery within the estate,
plus 3 billion ringgit to expand Kuantan’s port with  IJM Corp. (IJM)   The palm oil refinery will be a joint venture with
Malaysia’s Rimbunan Hijau Group, it said.  “This year, we expect more than 1 billion ringgit of
Chinese foreign direct investment in Malaysia,” Najib said,
adding that the Kuantan projects should create 8,500 jobs.
“Over the next five years, we expect two-way trade to reach
$100 billion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Barry Porter  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net . 