-- China Private Equity Chilled by ’Old Days’ Asking Prices
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2013-02-06T02:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/china-private-equity-chilled-by-old-days-asking-prices.html
When  Bob Partridge  of Ernst & Young
LLP was advising a global private-equity firm seeking to buy
half of a Chinese kitchenware maker in December, due diligence
revealed the company’s net income to be a third less than
expected. Still, the founder insisted on his asking price, 23
percent higher than publicly listed peers.  The $75 million being sought, which the owner said
reflected “China’s future prospects,” valued the company at
almost 20 times its earnings, according to Partridge, an Ernst &
Young partner covering China, Hong Kong and Taiwan.  Comparable
stocks  in the  MSCI China/Consumer Discretionary Index , which
tracks 17 Chinese consumer companies listed in Hong Kong, are
trading at 16.2 times earnings. In other markets, including the
U.S., private-equity valuations are typically lower than similar
listed companies.  “People are still of the mindset of 2010,” said
Partridge, who wouldn’t identify the parties involved citing
confidentiality. “They don’t have the sense of urgency driving
them to change their valuations expectations.”  Many Chinese private companies are seeking prices dating
back to a time when the nation’s economy was growing at more
than 10 percent, compared with 7.8 percent last year. They
aren’t budging even as the number of private-equity deals in
China fell an unprecedented 43 percent last year and domestic
initial public offerings, which private-equity firms count on to
exit the investments, tumbled 70 percent. There have been no
domestic IPOs this year, and new deals are virtually halted.  No Dreamland  “China’s private-equity market is no longer the dreamland
that many people inside and outside China had taken for granted
over the past five to 10 years,” said  Frank Yu , a former
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. banker who founded Themes Investment
Partners, a China-focused private-equity firm in Hong Kong.  The value of China’s private-equity deals fell 27 percent
to $21.9 billion in 2012, the biggest drop ever, while the 473
transactions were at the lowest level since 2005, according to
 Asian Venture Capital Journal , which tracks the industry.  China’s economic growth last year was the weakest since
1999, after having peaked at 14.2 percent in 2007, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. In 2010, the number of private-
equity deals jumped 60 percent and the value of the transactions
rose 65 percent. The next year, investments hit a record $30
billion with 825 deals recorded.  “We’re still in a bit of a down cycle in China, but some
entrepreneurs are still asking for prices from the old days,”
said  Martin Mok , a Hong Kong-based partner at EQT Partners AB
that manages $535 million in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan for its
global private-equity funds in Stockholm. “The gap is just too
big.”  Hanging On  Private-equity funds in China are still holding 82 percent
of the companies they’ve invested in since 2007, according to a
report from  China First Capital , a Shenzhen-based advisory firm.
Funds typically seek to cash out of their investments within
three to five years, often through IPOs.  “It is not always easy to deal with strong-minded
entrepreneurs in China as a minority shareholder,” said Vincent
Huang, a Hong Kong-based partner at private-equity firm
 Pantheon , based in London. Before 2005, closely held industrial
companies were asking prices in the mid to high single-digit
earnings multiples, he said.  Blackstone Group LP, the world’s biggest private-equity
firm, hasn’t made an investment in China outside the property
sector since the start of 2011, according to Asian Venture
Capital Journal.  Antony Leung , Blackstone’s chairman for Greater
China, said in October that “being conservative sometimes may
not be a bad thing.”  ‘Appear Dead’  Another Ernst & Young client, based in the U.S., was trying
to buy a Chinese food and beverage maker in December and was
told the seller wanted to hold back with the hope that the IPO
market would improve, Partridge said. That deal, along with the
bid for the kitchenware maker, “appear dead” for now, he said.  “Many of these private owners are expecting prices in
domestic markets to make another rally,” said  Jeff Yao , a
managing partner at  Prax Capital Inc. , a private-equity firm in
Shanghai. “Plus, there are still too many renminbi funds
seeking to buy stuff, and that’s stopping prices from coming
down meaningfully.”  Domestic and overseas Chinese share sales slumped 46
percent to $59 billion last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. China’s domestic IPO market has slowed as regulators
delayed reviewing new offerings. The number of listings fell to
79 last year, compared with a record 337 in 2010, the data show.  Spurning Companies  Investors in the U.S. also spurned Chinese companies
following the finding of misstated corporate earnings and
delisting of a number of firms from Hong Kong’s exchange. The
market value of overseas Chinese listings dropped 47 percent to
$6.6 billion from 2011, the data show.  Private-equity firms in China, including those denominated
in yuan, also known as renminbi, have raised $137.7 billion
since 2007, including a record $48.1 billion in 2011, according
to Asian Venture Capital Journal.  Price multiples for Chinese companies have gradually risen
with each fund raised from 2005 to 2009, said Sam Robinson, a
partner at  SVG Advisers (Singapore) Pte. , a unit of London-based
SVG Capital Plc, citing figures from funds he’s invested in.  “If a manager was paying eight times on average from their
fund raised in 2005, the average might increase to 10 times from
their fund raised in 2009,” he said in an interview. “It is
very difficult to be precise on multiples paid as it’s never
‘apples to apples,’ but I would say that generally I have seen
PE multiples rise.”  Taking Private  As a result of the high valuations and dim IPO prospects,
private-equity funds are looking at cheaper publicly traded
Chinese companies in Hong Kong and the U.S. to do deals,
including take-private opportunities.  While buyouts dominate U.S. and European private-equity
markets, they’re relatively new to China, where most equity
stakes have focused on pre-IPO investment.  China’s biggest leveraged buyout so far involved Focus
Media Holding Ltd., a U.S.-listed, Shanghai advertising company,
which on Dec. 19 agreed to be bought for $3.7 billion by a
consortium of investors led by Carlyle Group LP. The ad company,
which short seller Muddy Waters LLC said in 2011 overstated its
network, joins Chinese companies seeking to withdraw from U.S.
exchanges after corporate governance concerns cut valuations.  Can’t Continue  In a development that could endanger the deal, Focus Media
said last month that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
is probing potential violations of securities law regarding its
purchase and resale of companies. Jing Lu, a media manager for
Focus, didn’t answer two calls to the Shanghai office today.  The announced buyout doubled the value of take-private
deals in China to $4.2 billion last year, although the number of
deals fell to six from 10, according to the Asian Venture
Capital Journal.  Before private-equity funds proliferated in China starting
in 2006 and the domestic stock market became a viable exit
channel for their investments, Chinese private companies were
valued at “a significant discount” to listed companies in
China, as funding for private companies was limited and state
banks would only lend to government-run entities, Huang said.  Signs of a return to more-rapid growth are appearing in
China. The  International Monetary Fund  is projecting China’s
gross domestic product to grow 8.2 percent this year. The
 Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index  has risen 24 percent
from last year’s four-year low on Dec. 3 compared with a 6
percent rise in the  MSCI AC Asia Pacific Index  in the same
period.  Partridge of Ernst & Young said he expects pent-up demand
to keep building, resulting in deals starting in the second half
of this year.  “This can’t continue indefinitely,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  