-- China Services Industries Expand at Faster Pace, HSBC Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-05T02:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/china-services-industries-expand-at-faster-pace-in-hsbc-survey.html
China ’s services industries expanded
at the fastest pace in four months in January, a private survey
found, supporting a recovery in the world’s second-biggest
 economy .  The services  Purchasing Managers ’ Index released by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today rose to 54 from 51.7 in
December. A reading above 50 indicates expansion. A separate
government-backed  survey  published on Feb. 3 showed services
industries expanded at the fastest pace since August.  Today’s report adds to signs that growth will accelerate
for a second quarter after an almost two-year slowdown. The
government is counting on expansion of services and domestic
demand to become a bigger part of the economy as it tries to
reduce the reliance on  exports  and investment spending.  “China’s growth recovery is now on a firmer footing,”  Qu Hongbin , chief China economist for HSBC in  Hong Kong , said in
today’s statement. “Still-solid job gains plus higher business
expectations bode well for further improvement of services
sectors’ growth.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, China’s benchmark stock gauge,
fell 0.8 percent at 10:35 a.m. local time. It had risen 24
percent from Dec. 3 through yesterday.  China’s economy  expanded 7.9 percent in the final three
months of 2012 from a year earlier, reversing a seven-quarter
deceleration. Full-year expansion was 7.8 percent in 2012, the
weakest pace in 13 years.  Growth Pickup  The pace may pick up to 8.1 percent in the first quarter,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
analysts last month.  A separate non-manufacturing purchasing managers’  index (SHCOMP) 
rose to 56.2 in January from 56.1 in December, the National
Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said this week, the highest level in five months.  The federation’s manufacturing PMI released Feb. 1 showed a
fourth month of expansion and a separate gauge from HSBC and
Markit rose to the highest level in two years.  Services industries, which include retailing,
telecommunications and transportation, accounted for 45 percent
of gross domestic product last year, up from 41 percent in 2003.
The government is seeking to increase the share to 47 percent by
2015. The proportion is about 90 percent in the U.S.  The HSBC-Markit survey is based on data compiled from
monthly replies to questionnaires sent to purchasing executives
in more than 400 private services companies, according to
today’s statement.  The statistics bureau said today it’s expanding the sample
size for its services survey to about 8,000 companies from 1,200.
The agency said it will release an index for the larger group at
an unspecified date. The NBS’s manufacturing index for January
was based on a pool of 3,000 respondents, more than triple the
previous number.  --Zheng Lifei, with assistance from Rina Chandran in  Singapore .
Editors: Scott Lanman,  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  