-- China’s Resolve to Be Tested Over North Korea Sanctions
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-02-05T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/china-s-resolve-to-be-tested-over-north-korea-sanctions.html
United Nations diplomats are weighing
how much Chinese opposition they may face to further UN
sanctions on North Korea if it conducts a third nuclear blast,
which South Korea says appears imminent.  An underground nuclear test by Kim Jong Un’s regime would
be met with a “very firm and strong” response by the Security
Council, South Korea’s UN envoy, Kim Sook, said yesterday in New
York after taking over the monthly presidency of the UN’s
decision-making body. A test “seems to be imminent,” he said.  A key factor in the extent of the Security Council’s
response will be the position of  China , one of the five
permanent members having veto power and North Korea’s biggest
benefactor.  “The politics of this will be: what will the Chinese go
for and how quickly will council action be imposed,” said
George Lopez, a former UN sanctions investigator on North Korea.
“Right now the Chinese exhibit a concerned and somewhat angry
posture to North Korea. But this may fade, especially if the
Americans and the Brits try for overreach.”  The U.S. and its allies have said they’re ready for a quick
response if North Korea’s defiance escalates from a rocket
launch to a nuclear test.  China dropped its opposition to a binding resolution
adopted last month that chastised North Korea, one of the
world’s most isolated nations, for its December rocket launch in
violation of a missile test ban and warned the North’s
leadership of further consequences unless its nuclear program is
suspended.  China’s Mood  Still, China has resisted in the past when measures that
actually bite were on the table. It would demonstrate a
discernible shift away from North Korea if China supported tough
measures, such as inspections of North Korean goods coming
through its Dalian harbor and land borders.  “It would give us a sense of their anger, disdain and goal
of reasserting themselves” into the North Korea nuclear
equation, said Lopez, a professor at the Kroc Institute for
International Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame in
 Indiana .  Lopez said a bold move -- still probably too controversial
in testing the limits of the 1961 Vienna Convention on
Diplomatic Relations -- would be to call on UN member states
hosting North Korean embassies to scrutinize the movements and
baggage of North Korean diplomats. Such actions would be aimed
at hitting the North Korean elite and imposing an additional
obstacle to embargo-evading technology trafficking.  Black Market  Two UN diplomats, who asked to not be named due to the
sensitivity of the issue, said that a sizable number of North
Korean diplomats are used as conduits for the purchase of luxury
goods and the smuggling of high-end technology barred under
previous UN sanctions. Those individuals, protected by
diplomatic immunity, can move freely with bags of money, so
cutting off that cash flow would make a difference, the
officials said.  Successive  reports  by a UN panel of experts investigating
North Korea have highlighted the ways the regime bypasses
detection and pinpointed how some countries, which were not
named, are not fully cooperating with the UN.  The regime “can probably create aliases for entities
involved in illicit trade faster” than a UN sanction committee
can designate them, said a report released in June.  “Overall implementation of the sanctions leaves much to be
desired,” according to the report. “The panel knows of some
instances in which member states conducted inspections but have
not yet reported them.”  Regime’s Intentions  If the explosion is a uranium-based test, the UN officials
expect Iranians to be in attendance, further underlining the
ties between the two pariah states.  In that scenario, the U.S. and its European allies may
consider seeking a ban on all flights from  Iran  to North Korea
or travel bans on scientists and engineers who would visit North
Korea, according to Lopez. The Security Council may also try to
penalize any state that facilitates such movement of experts.  The nation conducted its two prior atomic tests in 2006 and
2009 at the Punggye-ri nuclear site, about 370 kilometers (230
miles) northeast of the capital, Pyongyang. Both those actions
were met with UN sanctions resolutions.  A third test is not a foregone conclusion and the regime
may be bluffing. Trying to anticipate the regime’s next steps
has become harder since, according to Yonhap News, North Korea
put a cover over the entrance of a tunnel at the site to evade
satellite monitoring.  South Korea thinks that arrangements for a test are
“nearly complete,” according to Defense Ministry spokesman Kim
Min Seok. The U.S. and South Korea begin joint naval exercises
this week in waters east of the Korean peninsula.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  