-- Christie -- With Doughnut -- Ribs Letterman Over Weight
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-02-05T16:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/christie-tells-letterman-40-of-jokes-are-funny-on-show.html
Governor  Chris Christie , the  New
Jersey  Republican who has struggled with his weight, poked some
fun at himself in his first appearance on  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s “Late
Show with  David Letterman .”  As the comedian apologized for past barbs, Christie pulled
a doughnut from his suit pocket and began munching.  “I didn’t know this was going to be this long,” he said
after he licked his fingers, brushed off crumbs and then wiped
his mouth with a tissue handed to him by Letterman.  Christie, who has been on the wrong end of Letterman’s
often-biting Top 10 lists, said that during a physical exam
ahead of his 50th birthday in September, his cholesterol and
blood sugar levels were both within normal ranges. His wife and
four children prod him regularly to lose weight, even joking he
may one day want to buy smaller pants, Christie said.  “I’m basically the healthiest fat guy you’ve ever seen in
your life,” he told the comedian, who replied that he should
make it the slogan for his re-election campaign.  Christie walked on to the stage to the tune of “Thunder
Road,” by New Jersey native  Bruce Springsteen , his favorite
musician. The governor, who has become a media sensation, sang
that song last year during an appearance on NBC’s “Late Night
with  Jimmy Fallon ,” and also did a comic bit on the network’s
“Saturday Night Live.”  Tasty Doughnut  In 2011, while Christie considered a bid for the White
House, Letterman estimated his weight at 400 pounds (180
kilograms).  “I’ve made jokes about you, not just one or two,”
Letterman said during yesterday’s show. “Is it an issue or is
it not an issue? And you tell me how you see things.”  Pausing in his doughnut repast, Christie responded, “I
only care if you’re funny.”  “I mean, from my perspective, if the joke is funny, I
laugh, even if it’s about me,” the governor said. “If it’s not
funny, I don’t laugh. But I’ve never felt like it was, you know,
anything that really bugged me all that much.”  Pressed to say how many of the jokes he thought were funny,
Christie replied, “about 40 percent -- roughly.” Later, he
read some of his favorites, and as he did, Letterman took a bite
of the same doughnut.  Potato Chips  Among the governor’s Top 10 were:  “Chris Christie turned 50 -- he blew out the candles on
his cake, and he wished for another cake.”  Then there was this one: “A billion dollars will be spent
on potato chips for Super Bowl Sunday, and that’s just at
Governor Christie’s house.”  The governor told  Oprah Winfrey  on her television show a
year ago that he worries about his weight and said the struggle
began 30 years ago, when he stopped playing sports in school.
Christie also told Winfrey that he had been working with a
dietitian and exercising more regularly.  “Are you on a diet now?” Letterman asked him. “Obviously
not!” Christie said, pointing to the doughnut. “Just blew
it.”  ‘Fat Guy Music’  The first Republican elected New Jersey governor since
1997, Christie became a national figure for raising
contributions to pensions and benefits, vetoing tax increases
against millionaires and leveling insults at critics during
confrontations.  Last year, gossip website TMZ.com showed video of him
shouting at a detractor who used profanity as Christie was
buying an ice cream cone on the Seaside Heights boardwalk with
his kids and their friends. Letterman set the confrontation to
“fat guy music” and said that angering Christie is like
“crossing a rhino.”  In a December interview on the ABC network, Christie told
 Barbara Walters  that his response to damage left by  Hurricane
Sandy  showed his weight hadn’t slowed him down and that it
shouldn’t bar him from seeking the presidency, if he decides to
run for the office.  “Had fun on Late Show last night,” the governor said to
his 336,276 followers on Twitter this morning. “Maybe Dave will
finally ease up on the jokes? Probably not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  