-- Christie Pledges Sandy Transparency as Award Questioned
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-02-05T22:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/christie-setting-up-program-to-make-sandy-spending-transparent.html
Governor Chris Christie said he’s
creating a program in the  New Jersey  comptroller’s office to
assure transparency in funding for  Hurricane Sandy  recovery, as
Democrats question the award of a debris-removal contract.  Christie, a Republican seeking re-election, said Democrats
are “ill-informed” for calling the job given to Ashbritt Inc.
a $100 million “no-bid contract.” The  Deerfield Beach ,
 Florida , company was hired by  Connecticut  in 2008, and New
Jersey adopted its contract under a reciprocity agreement that
allows one state to piggyback onto another’s deals during
emergencies, according to the governor’s office.  State Senate President Stephen Sweeney, the highest-ranking
Democratic lawmaker, yesterday questioned why Republican
legislators have remained silent on what he called a “giant no-
bid contract.” Senator Barbara Buono, a Metuchen Democrat
running for governor, called for hearings to find out why “an
out-of-state corporation that is overcharging  New Jerseyans  was
selected to do projects that can be done by local workers.”  “I think even Senator Sweeney has now come out publicly
and said that he was wrong, that it’s not a no-bid contract,
that in fact it was a bid contract,” Christie said today in
Union Beach. “He got some bad information.”  Getting Money  Chris Donnelly, a Sweeney spokesman, said he couldn’t
immediately comment on Christie’s statement.  That the Ashbritt contract wasn’t subject to bidding “is
completely and utterly false,” Jared Moskowitz, general counsel
for the company, said by telephone. He said New Jersey “acted
properly” when it adopted Connecticut’s model.  “We have no issues with transparency,” he said.  Ashbritt has participated in 30 disaster-recovery
operations in 11 states since 1992, according to Christie’s
office. Using companies that have such extensive experience is
helpful when dealing with the  Federal Emergency Management
Agency , the governor said.  “The risk is, as I said at the time, if you don’t use one
of these companies who are experienced with dealing with FEMA
paperwork and the FEMA bureaucracy, that if you don’t make your
request right, you’re not going to get reimbursed,” he told
reporters.  Aid Package  Sandy hit Oct. 29 with hurricane-force winds and flooding
that killed more than 125 people in 10 states. It ravaged shore
communities from New Jersey’s  Atlantic City  to Bridgeport,
Connecticut. Congress approved a $60.2 billion aid package for
rebuilding.  New Jersey retained Ashbritt two days after Sandy to give
“local governments what they needed to begin debris-removal and
clean-up efforts right away, an essential step in recovery and
moving forward after the storm,”  Kevin Roberts , a spokesman for
Christie, said in an e-mail.  “There’s no overcharging being done here,” Christie said.  Use of Ashbritt wasn’t mandatory, Roberts said. The company
is now overseeing 83 subcontractors in New Jersey for cleanup
work, and 71 percent of them are in-state companies, according
to Christie’s office. The $100 million is a “theoretical
ceiling” that may not be reached, Roberts said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  