-- Cigna Gains as Buffett Reinsurance Deal Reduces Risk
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-02-05T21:24:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/cigna-gains-as-buffett-reinsurance-deal-reduces-risk.html
Cigna Corp. (CI) , the third-biggest U.S.
health insurer, rose to its highest value in at least 30 years
after announcing a $2.2 billion deal to shift its death-benefit
liabilities to  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   Cigna climbed 3.5 percent to $60.38 at the close in  New
York , its highest  share price  since at least April 1982,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In a statement
yesterday, the Bloomfield, Connecticut-based company said it had
reached a reinsurance agreement for the variable-annuity death-
benefits business it had been trying to exit.  The move should raise demand for Cigna’s shares, said Carl McDonald, a Citigroup Inc. analyst in New York, in a note to
clients. The business, closed to new policies for more than a
decade, has been a drag on the stock, given the risk in policies
whose costs shift based on fluctuating  interest rates , he said.  “The deal simplifies the company, and eliminates a
business and risk that few investors understood,” McDonald
said. “It eliminates the risk of future earnings hits or
capital contributions if the reinsurance business performed
worse than expected, as has been the case regularly over the
last five years.”  Cigna investors have been “waiting on this for a long
time,”  David Windley , a Jefferies & Co. analyst in Nashville,
 Tennessee , said in a phone interview.  Berkshire, based in Omaha,  Nebraska , agreed to take on as
much as $4 billion in liabilities in the arrangement. Cigna is
funding the deal with $1.8 billion in investment assets, $100
million in cash and an estimated $300 million tax benefit.  Assuming Risk  Berkshire rose 1.3 percent to $146,825. The company gained
23 percent in the past 12 months. Cigna advanced 39 percent in
that time.  Buffett, 82, and his reinsurance chief Ajit Jain have
assumed obligations from insurers seeking to cut risk or narrow
their focus. The contracts give Berkshire’s billionaire chairman
and chief executive officer more funds to invest and make
acquisitions at the firm he’s built from a failing textile maker
into a company with more than 70  operating units .  Investors including  Leon Black ’s Apollo Global Management
LLC and Guggenheim Partners LLC have been assuming assets and
liabilities tied to annuities as insurers retreat from the
business. Declining interest rates have made guarantees embedded
in the products more costly and weighed on earnings at companies
including  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  and Genworth
Financial Inc.  Insurance Float  Buffett has used insurance float, or the premiums collected
before paying claims, to fuel growth at Berkshire over the past
four decades. Jain has helped raise those funds, which totaled
$72 billion at the end of September, by cutting deals with firms
including American International Group Inc. and CNA Financial
Corp. to assume asbestos liabilities and sell protection for the
costliest natural disasters.  Life insurers took on what Buffett has called an
“ungodly” amount of risk and accumulated liabilities as
Treasury yields dropped below 2 percent, making it harder to
generate returns to cover the obligations.  Cigna CEO David M. Cordani said last month that he had
spent the last 18 months restructuring the benefits business,
including moving it to a separate legal entity and setting up
hedging strategies to ease volatility.  Earnings Forecast  Buffett is assuming liabilities from units that have about
435,000 active policies, down 10 percent over 2012, Cordani said
yesterday on a conference call. The sale will have no impact on
Cigna’s earnings forecast this year or its capital deployment
plans, said Chief Financial Officer Ralph Nicoletti. Cigna
expects to finish its payments to Berkshire “well before the
end of 2013,” he said.  Cigna said it will take a $500 million after-tax charge in
the first quarter tied to the transaction, according to the
statement.  The company is scheduled to report its fourth-quarter
earnings Feb. 7.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , of Minnetonka,
 Minnesota , is the biggest health insurer by market value,
followed by Indianapolis-based  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  