-- Consumer Reports Says Ford, GM Overstate Turbo Benefits
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-02-05T21:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/consumer-reports-says-ford-gm-turbo-engine-benefits-overstated.html
Consumer Reports said its tests of
turbocharged cars from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  General Motors Co. (GM) 
didn’t support the companies’ claims about fuel economy and
performance provided by the powertrain technology.  Tests of Ford’s 2013 Fusion sedan with a 1.6-liter turbo
engine by the Yonkers, New York-based magazine found the car to
be slower and less fuel-efficient than standard four-cylinder
engine cars such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Camry and  Honda Motor
Co. (7267) ’s Accord.  GM’s Chevrolet Cruze compact with a 1.4-liter turbo engine
is slightly faster than one with a standard 1.8-liter engine,
the mileage is no better, Consumer Reports said. Using the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency’s methodology, the turbocharged
Cruze was rated 1 mile (1.6 kilometer) per gallon better in
combined city and highway driving.  “While these engines may look better on paper with
impressive EPA numbers, in reality they are often slower and
less fuel-efficient than larger four- and six-cylinder
engines,” Jake Fisher, director of automotive testing for
 Consumer Reports , said in an e-mailed statement.  Turbochargers pump more air through an engine, increasing
power. Automakers have turned to turbochargers as a way to have
smaller engines without sacrificing power. The extra air has to
be augmented with extra fuel, which may offset savings from
smaller engines, Consumer Reports said.  GM, Ford Reaction  Automakers are under pressure to boost vehicle efficiency
to meet stricter U.S. mileage requirements and win fuel-economy
bragging rights with turbo and direct-injection engines and
hybrid systems. Consumer Reports, automakers and U.S. regulators
have been reviewing gaps between official fuel-efficiency tests
and real-world performance since  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia
Motors Corp. (000270)  in November said they overstated mileage test
results.  The turbocharged Cruze has “better acceleration across the
rpm range making for a more fun to drive car,” Tom Read, a GM
spokesman, said in a statement. “However, if you have a heavy
foot on a turbocharged engine, you’re not necessarily going to
see a lot of fuel economy benefits.” Mileage, he said, “is
really dependent on how you drive.”  Consumer Reports in December said Ford’s two newest hybrid
models, the Fusion and C-Max hybrids, fell 17 percent to 21
percent short of the EPA rating of 47 mpg in the magazine’s
tests.  “We cannot answer for how Consumer Reports tested the
Fusion, but its findings are not consistent with our internal
and external feedback,” said  Wes Sherwood , a Ford spokesman.
“Those show that EcoBoost vehicles lead in customer
satisfaction for fuel economy across segments -- including
surveys by J.D. Power” & Associates. EcoBoost is Ford’s brand
name for its turbocharged engines.  Turbo engines in  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW 328i
sedan and X3 sport-utility vehicle were more fuel-efficient than
non-turbo versions, Consumer Reports said.  Ford rose 2.3 percent to $13.18 at the close in New York
while GM gained 2.3 percent to $28.59.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  