-- Credit Suisse to Accept Vinashin’s Plan to Restructure Its Debt
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2013-02-05T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/credit-suisse-to-accept-vinashin-s-plan-to-restructure-its-debt.html
Credit Suisse Group AG will accept a
debt restructuring plan that  Vietnam  Shipbuilding Industry Group
put to its creditors, helping to resolve negotiations
surrounding a default that occurred more than two years ago,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  The Swiss lender sent a letter to about 20 other creditors
of the Hanoi-based company, telling them it plans to accept the
proposal and outlining the rationale for them to do the same,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
matter is private.  Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry Group proposed swapping a
$600 million loan, plus accrued and unpaid interest, with bonds
guaranteed by Vietnam’s finance ministry, the person said.
State-owned Vinashin, as the company is known, received the $600
million financing in 2007 from a group of institutions led by
Credit Suisse, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vinashin missed the first $60 million payment on the
principal in December 2010, putting the loan into default,
Moody’s Investors Service said.  Hanoi-based Chief Executive Officer Truong Van Tuyen wasn’t
immediately available to comment on the debt restructuring plans
when called by  Bloomberg News  on his mobile phone. Josephine Lee, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Credit Suisse, declined
to comment.  Changed Hands  Since the loan was first made, much of the debt has changed
hands in the secondary market, the person familiar with the
matter said. About half is held by a range of small regional
lenders in  Asia  and the remainder by institutional investors and
 hedge funds , the person said.  Under the debt restructuring plan,  Vinashin  has proposed
swapping the loan with zero-coupon bonds which will have a tenor
of 12 years, the person said. Interest on the bonds will accrete
at 1 percent per annum and be paid upon maturity, along with the
principal and some $22 million of accrued interest.  Creditors’ legal fees of as much as $2.5 million would be
paid at the effective date of the restructuring, and the loan is
to be novated in the form of Euroclearable notes, the person
said. The total amount of the notes at the issue date will be
$622 million, representing the principal outstanding and the $22
million in accrued interest, the person said.  An entity of Vietnam’s finance ministry will issue the
securities, and the government department will fully guarantee
the debt, the person said.  Vinashin needs creditors holding at least 75 percent of the
$600 million loan by value and 51 percent by number to consent
to its proposal to be able to file a scheme of arrangement with
a U.K. court, the person said.  Reuters reported details of the debt restructuring
yesterday, citing an unidentified person familiar with the
matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  