-- Singer Damps Koruna-Sale Expectation With Czech Zero Rate
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-02-07T08:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/czechs-to-keep-zero-rates-as-debate-over-koruna-sales-heats-up.html
The Czech central bank damped
expectations it will sell the currency for the first time in a
decade to battle a recession after policy makers kept interest
rates at effectively zero for a second meeting.  The Ceska Narodni Banka, which targets inflation, left the
two-week repurchase  rate  at 0.05 percent, almost three-quarters
of a percentage point less than the euro-area benchmark. Further
easing is “less urgent” because of a weaker koruna, Governor
 Miroslav Singer  said, triggering the biggest currency gain in
seven months.  “What we are looking at now is a sort of fine-tuning of
the central bank’s communication with an aim to keep the koruna
in a desired range,”  Martin Lobotka , an analyst at  Ceska
Sporitelna AS  in Prague, who predicted the bank would steer
clear of announcing interventions yesterday, said by phone.  Czech households and businesses are spending less as
government austerity programs and the euro area’s debt crisis,
drag down the  economy . Three rate cuts last year steered the
central bank into uncharted territory, while several policy
makers, including Singer, have indicated koruna sales as the
next step if monetary conditions need to be relaxed further.  The central bank cut its economic forecasts for last year
and 2013 as the government’s austerity measures damp demand.
While the need for monetary-policy easing “may look less
urgent,” the change is a result of conditions having
“relaxed” due to the weaker koruna, Singer said.  Currency Gains  Those comments spurred the Czech currency to reverse a 0.6
percent retreat, gaining as much as 1.1 percent, the steepest
intraday advance since July 9. It traded 0.5 percent stronger at
25.221 per euro at 9:30 a.m. in Prague. The koruna was still
down 2.8 percent since Sept. 17, a day before Singer first
signaled the possibility of selling the unit to ease conditions.  “Intervention seems off the cards now,”  Mohammed Kazmi , a
strategist for emerging markets at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc  in London, said in an e-mail. “With intervention prospects
significantly reduced, we think that the currency can continue
strengthening from here, reversing the losses observed over the
last few months.”  Eastern European central banks are easing policy to boost
their economies, weakened by their biggest trading partner, the
crisis-stricken euro area. Poland lowered its  main rate  by a
quarter-point yesterday to 3.75 percent, in line with the
forecasts of all 34 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg, while
Hungary cut its benchmark rate for a sixth month to 5.5 percent
on Jan 29.  Economic Recession  The Czech  economy  shrank for a third three-month period
from July to September, matching the longest quarterly declines
recorded three years ago and in 1997. Gross domestic product
contracted 0.2 percent in the final three months of 2012,
according to the median forecast of nine economists in a
Bloomberg  survey .  The central bank cut its forecast for 2013 GDP to a 0.3
percent contraction from a previous estimate of 0.2 percent
growth. The bank raised its outlook for the three-month Prague
Interbank Offered Rate to 0.4 percent in 2013 from 0.2 percent.  The new forecast sees a “very moderate” appreciation of
the koruna from current levels, Singer said.  Industrial  output  fell 12.5 percent in December from a year
earlier, the worst reading in more than three years. The
foreign-trade  surplus  shrank to 6.4 billion koruna ($336
million) in December from 33.5 billion koruna in November.
Exports fell 7.1 percent, with imports declining 7 percent.  ‘Technical Zero’  The  inflation  rate fell to 2.4 percent in December from 2.7
percent in November, below the central bank’s 2.8 percent
estimate for the month. Monetary-policy inflation, calculated as
price growth adjusted for changes in indirect taxes, slowed to
1.1 percent, above the 1 percent lower end of the target range.  The central bank will keep rates at “technical zero”
until it sees a significant increase in inflation pressures,
Vice-Governor  Vladimir Tomsik  said in January. Further monetary
easing is possible through the “exchange-rate channel,” Tomsik
and Martin Mandel, a professor at the Prague-based University of
Economics, wrote in a Jan. 25 article for Bankovnictvi magazine.  Singer’s comment was a “misstep” in the central bank’s
communication strategy and “will likely be rapidly reversed in
the coming weeks,”  Peter Attard Montalto , a strategist at
Nomura International Plc in London, said in a report to clients.
“There is room for first verbal and then real intervention to
sustain euro-koruna higher -- certainly above 25.50.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  