-- Danger Seen in Pension Fund Cuts on Abe Inflation
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i ,   Y u m i   I k e d a   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-02-06T04:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/danger-seen-in-pension-fund-cuts-on-abe-inflation-japan-credit.html
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s push to
end deflation is cutting demand for the world’s  largest debt
pile  among its biggest owners just as he ramps up spending.  An auction of 10-year Japanese government bonds yesterday
met the weakest demand since August, days after the public
pension fund said it was considering reducing its JGB holdings.
Investors seeking protection against inflation drove the five-
year  breakeven rate , a measure of expectations for consumer
prices, above 1 percentage point this week for the first time in
data going back to June 2009. The similar measure is 2.35 points
in the  U.S.  and 1.25 points in  Germany .  Japan’s Government Pension Investment Fund, which oversees
108 trillion yen ($1.15 trillion), will hold talks in April
about reducing its 67 percent allocation to domestic notes,
President  Takahiro Mitani  said in a Feb. 1 interview. He said
Abe’s targeting of 2 percent consumer-price increases will drive
interest rates higher, with  10-year JGB yields  unlikely to
remain below 1 percent should the economy recover.  “They’re like a big whale; even if they only change
direction a little bit, the market impact is huge,” said  Ayako Sera , a market strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd.,
which has 33 trillion yen in assets. “If they are going to
change their core portfolio based on that, it’s very dangerous”
for the bond market, Sera said.  Shirakawa Departure  Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said yesterday he
will step down on March 19, almost three weeks before his term
was due, letting Abe hasten the appointment of a chief who will
take further steps to defeat deflation.  The yen accelerated losses after Shirakawa’s announcement,
sliding 1.4 percent yesterday and touching 93.90 against the
dollar today, the weakest since May 2010.  The five-year breakeven rate, derived from the difference
between government bond yields and those on inflation-linked
debt, was 1 percentage point yesterday, up from negative 0.04
point a year earlier. That compared with the 2 percent inflation
goal that the central bank adopted last month after government
pressure.  Japan’s  consumer prices  excluding fresh food have declined
an average of 0.2 percent every month over the past decade and
have never been above 2 percent for more than a year since 1992.  The so-called core inflation rate will be 0.5 percent in
the fiscal year starting April, as the economy grows 2.5
percent, the government said in revised estimates last week.  GPIF Holdings  GPIF, one of the biggest buyers of Japanese government
bonds, held 69.3 trillion yen, or 64 percent of total assets, in
domestic debt at the end of September, according to its latest
quarterly financial statement. That compares with 12 trillion
yen, or 11 percent, in  Japanese stocks ; 9.6 trillion yen, or 9
percent, in foreign bonds; and 12.6 trillion yen, or 12 percent,
in overseas stocks.  “JGBs were how we made money over the past 10 years,”
Mitani said during the interview. “If the economy gets better,
then long-term interest rates like a 10-year yield at less than
1 percent are unlikely.”  A 2.4 trillion yen auction of 10-year notes yesterday drew
bids valued at 2.75 times the amount on offer. That’s the lowest
so-called bid-to-cover ratio since August and compared with 3.52
at the previous sale. Yields on the securities were at 0.79
percent yesterday, 10 1/2 basis points, or 0.105 percentage
point, above a nine-year low touched in December.  Softbank Bond  Elsewhere in domestic credit markets, Softbank Corp., the
Japanese carrier that agreed to buy a $20 billion stake in
Sprint Nextel Corp., will sell 300 billion yen in bonds to help
finance the acquisition. Softbank will offer debt maturing in
four years to Japanese individual investors this month, the
Tokyo-based company said today in a government filing.  Japanese corporate notes have handed investors 0.23 percent
this year, compared with a 0.10 percent return for the nation’s
sovereign debt, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. Company bonds worldwide have lost 0.7 percent.  The  Markit iTraxx Japan  index of credit-default swaps for
50 companies dropped to 124 basis points yesterday, the lowest
since August 2011, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market. A decline in the contracts
signals improving perceptions of creditworthiness.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. borrowed 14.8 billion yen from the
Development Bank of Japan in a five-year, 0.94 percent loan, the
utility said in a statement yesterday.  Swallowing Python  Japan’s liabilities  amounted to 983.3 trillion yen at the
end of September, government figures show. The nation’s
outstanding debt will swell to 245 percent of gross domestic
product this year from 237 percent in 2012, the most in the
world and twice the ratio for the U.S., according to estimates
by the International Monetary Fund.  Interest payments on outstanding bonds and refinancing
costs totaling 22.2 trillion yen will make up 24 percent of the
budget for the year starting April 1, the government said on
Jan. 29. Abe’s administration will spend 10.3 trillion yen for
economic stimulus, it said earlier last month.  “Imagine if we did see 2 percent inflation, and over time
the average cost of government debt rose say to 2.5 percent,”
said  Ken Courtis , founding chairman of Next Capital Partners in
Tokyo and former vice chairman for Asia at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. “That would mean debt service would swallow like a python
virtually all of the national budget.”  Potential Losses  An increase in bond yields may prompt Japanese banks to
sell JGBs. The lenders, which have been channeling customer
deposits into government bonds rather than extending loans as
deflation lingers, held 161.2 trillion yen of the notes in
December, central bank data showed.  A 1 percentage point increase in yields on the sovereign
securities would cause major banks to incur losses of 3.7
trillion yen on their JGB holdings, the BOJ said in its
 financial system report  last year.  “People have started to debate what would happen to
interest payments or portfolios of financial institutions when
inflation emerges,” said  Makoto Noji , a Tokyo-based bond and
currency strategist at SMBC Nikko Securities, one of the 24
primary dealers obliged to bid at government debt sales. “We
may see that kind of fear materializing next year but it’s too
early to worry about it now.”  The yen has weakened more than 14 percent against the
dollar since mid-November, when Abe first called for monetary
easing by the BOJ to spark inflation. The depreciation tends to
spur consumer-price increases by boosting import costs.  Bond Risk  The threat of inflation has yet to trigger an increase in
bond risk.  The cost to insure the nation’s sovereign debt was 73.22
basis points yesterday, about half of last year’s high of 154.1
basis points, according to CMA.  Even so, the  extra yield  that investors demand to own
Japan’s 30-year bonds rather than five-year notes is 184.6 basis
points, near the highest since March 2010, amid concern the
nation’s fiscal health will worsen in decades ahead.  While Abe’s measures to spur inflation may cause interest
rates to rise, that won’t damage the economy, said  Koichi Hamada , a retired Yale University professor who’s advising Abe
on choosing a new central bank chief. A run-up in other asset
prices will “compensate for the loss of bond values.”  “Some people will lose because there is capital loss, but
along with that the stock market will boom and the yen will
devalue so foreign assets will increase,” Hamada said in an
interview yesterday. “In terms of the economy as a whole, we
shouldn’t worry too much about capital loss.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  