-- DBS Profit Misses Estimates as Lending Profitability Narrows
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-02-06T09:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/dbs-group-fourth-quarter-profit-gains-66-led-by-bank-stake-sale.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. , Southeast
Asia’s largest bank, said fourth-quarter profit rose 4 percent,
excluding a gain from the sale of a Philippine bank, missing
analysts’ estimates as loan margin narrowed.  Earnings before the S$450 million ($364 million) gain
increased to S$760 million from S$731 million a year earlier,
the lender said in a statement to the Singapore stock exchange
today. That fell short of the S$795 million  average  of eight
analysts’ estimates adjusted by Bloomberg. Net income jumped 66
percent to S$1.2 billion, including the one-time item.  The shares slumped after DBS reported thinner interest
margins, led by a decline in corporate lending profitability.
Chief Executive Officer  Piyush Gupta  has delivered 10 quarters
of earnings  growth  as he moves into faster-expanding markets
amid slowing credit demand in the bank’s home market.  “The biggest disappointment in the quarter came from
interest margins as management had indicated this would remain
stable,” said  Ken Ang , a Singapore-based analyst at Phillip
Securities Pte. “It’s an area of concern and we’ll be looking
to hear more from management on this and what would be the
guidance moving forward.”  DBS  shares fell 1.6 percent to S$14.96 at the close in
Singapore, the biggest decline in three weeks and the worst
performer on the city’s benchmark Straits Times Index. Rival
 Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. , which reports earnings next week,
slid 0.5 percent.  Margin Narrows  Net interest  margin  narrowed to 1.62 percent in the quarter
from 1.73 percent a year earlier as corporate loan spreads and
yields on investment securities declined, DBS said.  Banks  in Singapore earn the least on loans in Southeast
Asia, based on their average net interest margin of 1.99
percent, according to the most recent data compiled by
Bloomberg. Net interest margin at OCBC was 1.75 percent at the
end of the third quarter, while United Overseas Bank Ltd.’s
stood at 1.84 percent.  In search of more profitable lending, Gupta in April bid
about $6.8 billion for Bank Danamon Indonesia and is now
awaiting approval from regulators in Indonesia, where average
net interest margins for banks with a market value of at least
$5 billion is 6.9 percent.  Gupta told reporters in Singapore today that he’s positive
about the approval coming through, based on signals coming from
Bank Indonesia. He declined to comment on timing or details.  ‘Slightly Softer’  The bank’s net interest income, the difference between what
it makes from lending and pays on deposits, was little changed
last quarter from a year earlier at S$1.29 billion. The lender’s
loan book grew 8 percent to S$210 billion.  “We came in slightly softer in the quarter than I had
anticipated,” Gupta said. “We expected the  China  business to
start picking up in September-October, but we saw it in our
numbers only in December.”  The lender reported a fourth-quarter loss of S$23 million
from China, compared with a profit of S$36 million a year
earlier.  In October, DBS cut its stake in  Bank of the Philippine
Islands  in half to boost capital.  Ayala Corp.  bought the 10.4
percent stake in the Philippine lender for S$757.3 million.  For the full year, profit excluding the gain from the stake
sale rose 11 percent to a record S$3.36 billion, DBS said.  Fees, Commissions  Net fees and commissions climbed 9 percent in the quarter
to S$372 million, led by wealth management, DBS said. Investment
banking fees fell 18 percent to S$27 million. Other non-interest
income advanced 4 percent to S$294 million as the bank booked
gains on fixed assets.  Provisions for credit and other losses declined 50 percent
from a year earlier to S$114 million, the bank said in the
statement.  Loan growth in Singapore slowed to 10.4 percent in 2012
from 24 percent a year earlier, according to a Jan. 31 note to
clients from Daiwa Capital Markets Singapore Ltd. The city’s
economy rose at the slowest pace in three years in 2012 and the
government predicts economic growth of 1 percent to 3 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  