-- Deficit Getting Makeover as Eye Kept on Moody’s: Turkey Credit
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-02-06T16:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/deficit-rejiggered-as-eye-kept-on-moody-s-rating-turkey-credit.html
Turkey is changing how it calculates
some economic statistics, which may improve data such as the
current-account gap, a measure cited by Moody’s Investors
Service as a reason for keeping the nation junk rated.  Data on exports, imports and tourism have been “showing
our current-account deficit worse than it really is,” Deputy
Prime Minister  Ali Babacan  told BloombergHT television on Jan.
25. New methods will put Turkey’s calculations in line with
international standards, cut the shortfall, boost tourism
revenue and reduce unemployment, he said.  While Turkish officials say the methods will result in more
accurate data, they may raise questions about the reliability of
the nation’s statistics, according to  Gulay Girgin , chief
economist at Ata Investment in Istanbul. Investor concern that
the current-account gap was deteriorating sent two-year
benchmark note  yields  surging to 11.5 percent in January last
year, prompting policy makers to slow bank lending that was
fueling demand for imports. That helped spur the best bond rally
among major emerging markets last year.  “The current-account deficit is the single most important
issue for rating companies, and a revision at this time could
result in question marks, even if the changes are justified,”
Girgin said by phone on Jan. 29. “The case for a revision
weakens when it’s done while all eyes are focused” on the
shortfall, she said.  Credit Rating  Moody’s, which rates Turkey at Ba1, the highest non-
investment level, said Jan. 28 that an upgrade would depend on
Turkey cutting vulnerabilities stemming from its current-account
shortfall, the biggest in the world behind the U.S. in 2011.  Fitch Ratings gave Turkey its first investment-grade rating
in 18 years on Nov. 5,, highlighting declining government debt,
a strong banking system and favorable economic growth prospects.  “If the new data is acceptable in terms of methodology,
then this is a good development,”  Marcin Budkiewicz , an
emerging-markets strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank in London,
said in e-mailed comments yesterday. “We don’t know how
relevant this would be from the rating companies’ point of view.
They could rely on their own calculations or on data from
international organizations.”  New Methodology  Under new calculations, the current-account  deficit  will
fall from its current level of about 7 percent of gross domestic
product, tourism revenue may increase by as much as $5 billion
and unemployment will drop by 1 percentage point, Babacan said,
without specifying timing for new methodology on calculating the
current account.  The revisions will introduce more accurate data for tourism
revenue, according to  Bora Tamer Yilmaz , an economist at
Istanbul-based Halk Yatirim.  “At first it looks fishy,” Yilmaz said in e-mailed
comments on Feb. 1. “I find these healthy. Calculation changes
for the current-account data could be completed this year. They
won’t wait for long.”  Turkey’s current-account deficit probably shrank to 6.9
percent of GDP last year and may be about 7 percent in 2013,
according to the median estimate in Bloomberg surveys of
economists. That compares with a record of about 10 percent in
2011, according to government data.  Shorter Period  Starting from April 2014, the agency plans to count
individuals who have sought work in the past month as jobless,
compared with the three-month period used now, according to
Birol Aydemir, chairman of the nation’s statistics agency, who
spoke at a Jan. 31 conference in Ankara. The change may cut the
jobless rate by between 0.9 and 1.4 percentage points, according
to an agency presentation during the event. The  rate  was 9.1
percent in October 2012, the latest month data is available.  Changes in the methodology for calculating labor data are
positive and moving “in line with Eurostat,” Vincent
Bourgeais, a spokesman for Eurostat in Luxembourg, said in an e-
mail yesterday. A detailed assessment of national accounts has
not been done, he said.  The Turkish Statistics Agency had nothing new to add to
remarks by Aydemir, according to a spokesman who asked not to be
identified yesterday, citing policy. The central bank’s press
office didn’t return calls from Bloomberg seeking comment.  Jessica Sibado , a spokeswoman at Moody’s in London, didn’t
immediately respond to calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  Yields Climb  Yields on two-year local currency  securities  fell five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 5.73 percent at 5:50
p.m. in Istanbul, lowest since Dec. 4. That extended this year’s
drop to 42 basis points, the most among 17 emerging markets
tracked by Bloomberg.  Predicting the consequences of a rating change may be
little better than flipping a coin, with yields moving in the
opposite direction than suggested 47 percent of the time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg in June on 314 upgrades,
downgrades and outlook changes going back to 1974. Yields were
measured after a month relative to U.S. Treasury debt, the
global benchmark.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Turkish debt
denominated in dollars rather than U.S. Treasuries was unchanged
at 192 today, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s EMBI Global
Index. The premium compared with the emerging-market average of
272.  The lira declined 0.2 percent against the dollar to 1.7647,
paring this year’s gain to 1.1 percent. The currency was the
world’s worst-performing in 2011 as the current-account deficit
swelled, dropping 18 percent.  Default Risk  Five-year credit-default swaps on Turkey were unchanged at
133. That compared with 143 for Russia, 93 for Poland and 170
for South Africa. Lower prices show improving perceptions of a
borrower’s creditworthiness. The contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or cash if a
borrower fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Turkey took the first step in changing how the data are
calculated this year, cutting the weight of food and non-
alcoholic beverages in its inflation basket, while raising the
weights of transportation, housing, utilities, restaurants and
hotels, according to the Ankara-based statistics agency.  Inflation  jumped to 7.31 percent in January, more than the
6.77 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey, a report
showed two days ago.  “The focus should be on correcting methods that fail to
comply with international standards, rather than correcting
figures,”  Ali Ihsan Gelberi , chief of economic research at
Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS, said in e-mailed comments Jan. 29.
The changes should be done “together with or with approval from
international bodies,” he said. “Otherwise, confidence in the
data would fall. The market wouldn’t like that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  