-- Dell Discount to Tech LBOs Is Shot at Success: Real M&A
-- B y   D a v i d   C a r e y   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2013-02-05T22:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/dell-discount-to-tech-lbos-is-shot-at-success-real-m-a.html
Michael Dell  and Silver Lake
Management LLC are wagering that their $24.4 billion plan to
take Dell Inc. private will succeed where other big leveraged
buyouts of technology companies have failed.  From 2005 to 2007, the peak of the buyout boom, private-
equity firms completed four technology deals of comparable scale
to the Dell deal yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Two of the LBOs are mired in losses, while the
others, including the Silver Lake-led acquisition of SunGard
Data Systems Inc., have produced minimal gains for the buyers
and their investors.  Dell, chairman and chief executive officer of the computer
maker he founded in 1984, has negotiated a lower price relative
to cash flow and a lighter debt load than the buyers in the
earlier megadeals. While that doesn’t guarantee that the 47-
year-old billionaire can turn his company around in the fast-
changing computer market, it gives him the financial flexibility
the other LBOs lacked and a shot at a higher return.  “This is a very reasonably priced deal,” said  Scott Sperling , co-president of Boston private-equity firm Thomas H.
Lee Partners LP.  Financing Details  Michael Dell and Silver Lake together will inject about
$5.8 billion of equity into the deal, people familiar with the
matter said. Dell will have a controlling stake in the private
company.  Microsoft Corp. , whose software powers many of Dell’s
computers, will provide a $2 billion loan, according to a
statement announcing the deal. The balance will be funded with
$13 billion in additional borrowing and cash from  Dell’s  balance
sheet, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the information is private. The deal’s enterprise value -- or
market capitalization and debt minus cash -- is about $22.2
billion.  The enterprise value works out to about 5.1 times a measure
of cash flow known as earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda. The peak-era
technology LBOs were priced at 9 times Ebitda or more.  “Tech buyouts valued at 7 times or less have often done
well,” Sperling said.  Quarterly Grind  The buyout will add $8 billion to Dell’s debt, bringing the
total to $17 billion, the people said. Based on prevailing LBO
loan rates and those on Dell’s  existing bonds , annual servicing
costs could be as much as $1.2 billion, or about 28 percent of
Ebitda. That would leave  Dell  with $2.6 billion in cash flow
after capital expenses and interest, based on the company’s
financial performance in the 12 months ended Nov. 2.  The deal’s valuation compares with an average multiple of
9.2 times Ebitda for all LBOs announced or completed in the past
12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Michael Dell and Silver Lake aim to replicate the outcome
of a much smaller deal they did: a $2 billion buyout of disk-
drive maker Seagate Technologies Inc. in 2000. It was the
biggest LBO of a technology company at the time. Silver Lake, in
which Michael Dell was an investor, led a group that scored more
than 700 percent gain on the deal, according to a recent Silver
Lake private placement memorandum obtained by Bloomberg News.  Spending Freedom  Silver Lake paid 2.6 times Ebitda, according to a
regulatory filing. Flush with  free cash flow , Seagate boosted
research and development spending to $800 million in fiscal
2001, from $660 million the year before, and to $700 million in
fiscal 2002. The step-up was pivotal to Seagate’s being first to
market with the most advanced disks of the day.  “They invested and stayed on top of the product cycle, and
they emerged a winner,” said  John Moore , a Standard & Poor’s
credit analyst in New York.  Even paying a favorable price, Michael Dell faces
significant obstacles in trying to make good on his ambitions to
break into new businesses such as cloud computing and mobile
devices and lessen the company’s reliance on its weakening
flagship PC business.  About 70 percent of Dell’s  business  is still tied to
personal computers, which are “under secular and structural
pressure,” even after it has spent $13 billion on acquisitions
since 2008,  Shaw Wu , a San Francisco-based analyst at Sterne
Agee & Leech Inc., wrote in a Jan. 22 report. As much as half
the company’s revenue is from desktop and notebook computers,
and an additional 20 percent from businesses tied to such
computers, he wrote.  No Cushion  While the reliance on the personal computer business has
weighed on Dell’s growth prospects, it still helped the company
produce an estimated average of $4.4 billion in  Ebitda  annually
over the past five years. The megadeals done during the boom era
were financed so aggressively that they were left without a
capital cushion when the financial crisis hit, said  Jamie Rizzo ,
an analyst at credit-rating company Fitch Ratings in New York.  “The projections going into these deals were close to
perfection,” Rizzo said. “Then you get hit by a substantial
downturn like we had and that no one was expecting, and it sets
you back multiple years.”  A fast-evolving industry full of money-hungry startups,
technology long was a magnet for venture capital that buyout
sponsors shied from. Debt was seen posing too much risk in a
field where cash flows can be volatile. Prior to 2005, the
biggest technology LBOs had been valued at about $2 billion.  Freescale, SunGard  That changed when a Silver Lake-led group agreed to buy
SunGard, a supplier of software to financial institutions and
data-backup services, for $10.6 billion in March 2005. At the
time, it was the largest LBO since KKR & Co.’s iconic
acquisition of RJR Nabisco for $31.3 billion in 1989. SunGard
shouldered $7.4 billion of debt and an interest-to-Ebitda ratio
of almost 60 percent.  The SunGard deal was topped by the $11.1 billion purchase
of NXP Semiconductor NV by KKR four other firms, including
Silver Lake, in August 2006. NXP’s interest ratio rose to 55
percent.  A month later  Blackstone Group LP  and two other private-
equity firms agreed to buy Freescale Semiconductor Inc. for
$17.6 billion, leaving interest-to-Ebitda at 45 percent.  The largest technology LBO is KKR’s takeover of First Data
Corp. for $29.7 billion in April 2007, about three months before
credit markets started to collapse under the weight of subprime-
mortgage defaults. The credit-card payment processor’s debt rose
to almost $22 billion, with interest surpassing 70 percent of
Ebitda.  Unexpected Troubles  The deals’ values ranged from 9.3 times trailing 12-month
Ebitda for SunGard to 10 for Freescale, 12 for First Data and
almost 15 for NXP, regulatory filings show.  Tailored to the companies’ cash flows, the debt wasn’t
crippling at first. Then the recession hit, sales fell and debt
service consumed an increasing portion of cash flows. Shifts in
technology and customer tastes also took a toll.  NXP  lost market share in key products, and Freescale’s
results took a turn for the worse when sales of Motorola’s once-
popular Razor cell phones tumbled and Freescale’s second-biggest
business, selling chips to automakers, went into a free fall.  Several of SunGard’s biggest customers switched to newer
and cheaper technologies, while a shift to debit-card card
purchases and consolidation among financial-services companies
cost First Data revenue. Since 2009, the four companies’ results
have improved, although the effects of paying steep prices and
using high leveraging linger.  Poor Returns  NXP, which went public in 2010, has given investors, who
sank about $4.5 billion into the company, an unrealized profit
of about 10 percent after six years, based on the company’s
recent stock price. SunGard’s backers, who in December extracted
a $718 million dividend that returned about 20 percent of their
money, are barely breaking even, said a person with knowledge of
the matter.  With Freescale, whose IPO was in 2011, Blackstone and its
co-investors have registered about a 60 percent loss on their
$7.2 billion outlay, based on the  current share price  of $14.56
a share. KKR and other First Data shareholders have posted a 30
percent mark-to-market loss on their $6.3 billion investment,
KKR’s third-quarter earnings statement shows.  Uphill Battle  Unlike Seagate, where the buyout helped the company
solidify its position in a market where it was already strong,
Michael Dell has made no secret of his company’s need to revamp
its entire business. While a cash cushion will help, it may not
be enough.  Dell faces an uphill battle as it seeks to challenge
established rivals like  Oracle Corp. , EMC Corp. and  Hewlett-
Packard Co.  in lines like servers and tablet computers, where
Dell has little presence, Rizzo  said.  “People are concerned about the business model,” said
 Louis Meyer , a special situations analyst in New York for broker
Oscar Gruss & Son Inc. “You have a consumer business that is
sort of dying on the vine. They may have products in development
that could arrest that. But even if they do, they’ve still got
to invest in that.”  Should he succeed, the reward for Michael Dell and his co-
investors could be significant.  “This has the potential to make Michael Dell a lot richer
than he already is,” said Erik Gordon, a private-equity and law
professor at the University of Michigan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  