-- Deutsche Boerse Cuts Dividend, Jobs to Shore Up Earnings
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-02-05T17:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/deutsche-boerse-cuts-dividend-jobs-to-shore-up-earnings.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , the operator of
the Frankfurt stock exchange, trimmed its dividend and unveiled
plans to cut about 250 jobs as part of a cost-reduction plan to
shore up profit in the face of declining trading volumes.  The company proposed a 2012  dividend  of 2.10 euros a share,
down from 2.30 euros in the previous period, Deutsche Boerse
said in a statement today. The company will identify savings of
as much as 70 million euros ($95 million) annually and start
negotiations immediately with labor representatives. The cuts
will be completed by 2016 and the exchange will spend 90 million
euros to 120 million euros implementing the program.  “The cost of implementing the efficiency improvements in
2013 will likely outweigh the benefits,” Peter Lenardos, an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  London , wrote in a report
today. “Cost savings of around 7 percent of forecasted 2013
operating expenses that will not be realized for years and will
cost almost twice as much to implement should not be applauded
by the market.”  Deutsche Boerse  and its rivals, including NYSE Euronext and
London Stock Exchange Group Plc, have seen volumes drop
following the global financial crisis of 2008. Traditional
exchanges have also lost market share to trading venues such as
Bats Chi-X  Europe .  Deutsche Boerse  shares  rose 28 cents, or 0.6 percent, to
close at 48.25 euros in Frankfurt trading today.  Annual Earnings  The company reported 2012 adjusted preliminary net income
of about 660 million euros, without giving comparable figures
for the previous period. Net revenue was 1.93 billion euros,
preliminary operating costs adjusted for special items were
about 920 million euros and adjusted preliminary earnings before
interest and tax were about 1 billion euros, the Frankfurt-based
bourse said in the statement.  “We intend to reduce staff costs by 30 million euros by
giving approximately 200 employees and about 50 executives the
opportunity to participate in a voluntary redundancy scheme,”
 Frank Herkenhoff , a spokesman for Deutsche Boerse, said today.  European regulators blocked Deutsche Boerse’s acquisition
of New York-based NYSE Euronext last year, citing concerns over
competition in derivatives and clearing. The German exchange
spent about 82 million euros in 2011 on legal, consulting,
banking and other expenses related to the failed merger.
Deutsche Boerse is moving its Eurex derivatives exchange to a
new trading system as it develops a standalone strategy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  