-- Disco Party Takes Over Hayward With Dazzling Light Show
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2013-02-05T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/disco-party-takes-over-hayward-with-dazzling-light-show.html
If you think that avant-garde art is
ponderous and austere, think again.  “Light Show,” a highly enjoyable exhibition at  London ’s
Hayward Gallery, will change your mind. It’s hard to think of an
art display that offers more straightforward fun. It’s quite
like going to a party, except that there are no drinks or music.  The day I visited, several people had brought along young
children, and -- unusually in an art gallery -- these toddlers
seemed to be enjoying themselves.  The exhibition is made up of works created by, and
sometimes comprised only of, light. In the case of a piece by
Anthony McCall, you can not only look at it and walk around it,
you can walk right through it.  While some exhibits look a bit like the setting for an
unusually tasteful discotheque, there are many serious works.  Light is quite a traditional artistic medium. It was there
in the Middle Ages -- think of stained glass -- and the Baroque
period. In more recent times, light art came straight out of
abstract painting.  Among the founders of the form were James Turrell. Some of
his works resemble Rothko abstractions. “Wedgework IV” (1974)
is made of light, not canvas and pigment.  The minimalist  Dan Flavin  (1933-96) went one further in
making sculpture out of light. In fact, it was the advent of
artificial electric illumination that made contemporary light
art possible, and no one showed this more directly than Flavin.
His signature medium was the humble fluorescent tube.  Beautiful Presence  In the 1960s and 1970s, Flavin was using the mundane
fitting that lit every cheap bar in  New York  City. He somehow
managed to produce something mysterious as well as beautiful: a
presence.  Paradoxically, though, nothing ages faster than everyday
appliances. Consequently Flavin’s cutting-edge minimalist pieces
of only a few decades ago already have an old-fashioned look.
Soon they’ll seem as antiquated as Byzantine mosaics.  Other pieces on display at the Hayward move even further
into three dimensions. “Chromosaturation” by Carlos Cruz-Diez
is an entire environment dominated by color in the form of
light: one red room, one green, one blue. The idea is that you
are completely taken over, chromatically. That is a mild, almost
bland experience compared with some of the others on offer.  More spectacular -- not to say disconcerting -- results
come from adding movement to light. “Slow Arc inside a Cube
IV” (2009) by Conrad Shawcross consists of a moving light
source inside a wire cage in the middle of a room.  Slipping Perspective  The effect is to put the viewer inside a constantly turning
and slipping perspective diagram. There are moments when the
world seems to fall away beneath your feet, leaving your stomach
behind.  If anything the strobe lighting in Olafur Elisson’s “Model
for a timeless garden” (2011) is even more stomach-churning (a
well-known art historian came out complaining it had made him
feel faint).  It is made up of 27 miniature table-top fountains. Instead
of being soothing -- as fountains usually are -- these are
spectral and disconcerting. The water droplets hang in the air
in a series of flickering freeze-frames, while the fountains
morph in a constant shape-shifting pulse.  In art, light creates two qualities: beauty and drama. Most
of the exhibits produce one or the other, and a few (like
Eliasson’s) manage both. It’s a long while since I saw the
Hayward so packed. It’s easy to understand why.  “Light Show” is at the Hayward Gallery, Southbank Centre,
Belvedere Road, SE1 8XX through April 28. Information:
 http://www.haywardlightshow.co.uk  or +44-20-7960-4200.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeffrey Burke  on books and  Amanda
Gordon ’s Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 