-- Duke Energy to Shut Crystal River Reactor in Florida
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-02-05T21:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/duke-energy-to-shut-crystal-river-reactor-in-florida.html
Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) , the largest U.S.
utility owner, will permanently shut its Crystal River nuclear
power plant in  Florida  after deciding the risks and costs
associated with repairing it outweighed the benefits.  Duke will seek $1.65 billion from Florida customers for its
failed investments in the reactor, the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based company said in a filing today. The cost recovery
can begin in 2017 and last 20 years under a settlement approved
by state regulators last year.  Shutting the plant “is probably a prudent decision,”
Nathan Judge, a London-based analyst for Atlantic Equities LLP
who rates the shares the equivalent of hold, said today in a
phone interview. “Having said that, it leaves ratepayers with
about a $1.6 billion bill and that’s going to increase scrutiny
on Duke’s operations in Florida and its rates.”  Duke acquired the 36-year-old reactor when it bought
Progress Energy Inc. last year. Duke’s board said a lack of
timely information about the reactor played a role in its
decision to oust  Bill Johnson , the former head of Progress,
hours after he became chief executive officer of the combined
companies. The leadership switch prompted investigations by
North Carolina regulators and the state’s attorney general.  The 860-megawatt reactor has been shut since 2009, when a
crack was discovered while it was being refueled and its steam
generator replaced. More cracks occurred in 2011 when the
company was trying to repair the damage. A company report last
year concluded fixing the reactor may cost $1.49 billion and as
much as $3.43 billion in a worst-case scenario.  Insurance Payment  Duke  rose  0.8 percent to $68.88 at the close in  New York .
The shares have  gained  8 percent this year.  The plant closing doesn’t affect Duke’s debt rating,
Dimitri Nikas, a New York-based credit analyst for  Standard &
Poor’s , said today in a note to clients. Its recovery of about
$1.6 billion of abandoned investment in the plant is “well
defined” under the 2012 settlement with Florida officials, he
wrote.  Nuclear Electric Insurance Ltd., the industry-formed
insurer of U.S. reactors, will pay a record $835 million as part
of a settlement with Duke, including $305 million already paid.  Duke’s Progress Energy Florida will record a cost of about
$195 million in the fourth quarter from closing the plant,
located 72 miles (115 kilometers) north of Tampa. Progress
Energy Florida serves more than 1.6 million customers in the
state.  Decommissioning Fund  Duke may build natural gas-fueled power generation to
replace the reactor’s output. Sites in Citrus County, where the
reactor employs 600 people, are under consideration, the company
said. Four coal-fired units at the site will continue to operate
as planned, with the expected retirement of two of them in 2015
to 2018.  The reactor’s decommissioning fund should be sufficient to
pay for dismantling it, Duke said in the filing. The company
plans to remove the fuel and monitor the reactor for as long as
60 years before scrapping it, allowing radioactive decay within
the plant and reducing the volume of radioactive material when
it’s taken apart.  “We believe the decision to retire the nuclear plant is in
the best overall interests of our customers, investors, the
state of Florida and our company,” Duke Chairman and CEO  Jim Rogers  said in a statement today. “The decision was very
difficult, but it is the right choice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  