-- Dutch Pension Fund and Ace Securities End Mortgage Suit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-02-05T21:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/dutch-pension-fund-and-ace-securities-end-mortgage-suit.html
Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP, the
biggest Dutch retirement fund, and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s Ace
Securities Co. ended a lawsuit over sales of residential
mortgage-backed securities.  ABP, based in Heerlen,  Netherlands , sued Deutsche Bank, Ace
and four other bank affiliates in New York State Supreme Court
in  Manhattan  in September 2011, saying it bought the securities
while relying on false and misleading statements.  The two sides agreed to end the lawsuit with prejudice,
meaning it can’t be refiled, according to a court filing dated
Feb. 4. Geoffrey Jarvis, an attorney for ABP with Grant &
Eisenhofer PA, and Moses Silverman, a lawyer for Ace with Paul,
Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP, didn’t immediately
return telephone messages seeking comment on whether a
settlement had been reached.  Justice Jeffrey Oing in July threw out claims of aiding and
abetting fraud and negligent misrepresentation, while ordering
Ace to face claims of common-law fraud and fraudulent
inducement. Oing dismissed Deutsche Bank, Deutsche Bank Home
Lending LLC and DB Structured Products Inc. from the case,
leaving Ace, Deutsche Bank Securities and another affiliate as
defendants.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  ABP has filed similar lawsuits in the same court against
banks including Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse Group AG and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The fund settled a lawsuit against
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in December.  The case is Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP v. Ace Securities
Corp., 652460/2011,  New York  Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  