-- The Prayers the Bishops Owe Obama
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-02-05T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/the-prayers-the-bishops-owe-obama.html
U.S. Catholic bishops have a lot to
worry about: the gunning down of children; 11 million
undocumented immigrants, many of them Catholic; a warming
planet; a chilly economy. Instead they’ve spent the last year
obsessed with contraception.  The bishops are furious over the Affordable Care Act, which
generally requires employers to cover contraception. It isn’t a
novel concept. Nine years ago, 86 percent of the plans that
insurance companies typically wrote for employers  covered
contraception . It’s included as part of a minimum standard of
coverage by the  Institute of Medicine .  Even so, purely religious institutions such as churches
were exempted from providing such coverage. The bishops wanted a
wider exemption for all religious organizations, not just those
whose main purpose was the “inculcation of religious values” and
whose employees were primarily Catholic.  And so President  Barack Obama  promised a year ago -- with a
nudge from Vice President  Joe Biden , a Catholic -- to
reconsider. He pledged that he would expand the institutional
exemptions. At the time, his critics portrayed this promise as a
craven ploy to get him beyond the election.  Newt Gingrich , then
a Republican candidate for president,  predicted that  Obama would
continue his battle against the church “the morning after he is
re-elected.”  Picking Fights  Wrong. Obama was looking neither to buy time nor to pick a
fight with the bishops. (It’s more likely they were looking for
one with him: In 2004, the bishops warned Democratic
presidential candidate  John Kerry  that he would be denied
Communion for his pro-choice views. By ostracizing political
candidates, they like to enforce beliefs that their parishioners
have rejected.)  But Obama kept his word, and last week, in the form of  new
regulations  from the Department of Health and Human Services,
the definition of “religious organizations” was expanded to
include nonprofit religious groups whose work is inspired by
their faith. Employees can still get coverage for birth control,
but it will be separate from a religious employer’s plan.  A Catholic teaching hospital, for example, may not want to
pay for a nurse’s birth-control pills. So an insurer will offer
a separate policy. The slight premium (slight because insurers
save money with fewer accidental pregnancies) will be offset by
lowering fees that insurers will pay to be in new health-care
exchanges.  Everyone happy? Not a chance. Even though the new
regulation shows that the president has taken the bishops’
objections into account, they refuse once again to declare
victory and move on to aiding the poor and comforting the sick.
They will not be satisfied, apparently, if even one employee of
a Catholic-aligned institution is getting birth control through
insurance.  Of course, Catholics will use contraception. They have been
for decades. But the bishops continue their war against it by
other means. They will in all likelihood object to these latest
regulations (as of this writing, they were still studying them)
and maintain the dozens of lawsuits making their way through the
courts.  A year ago, I said the bishops had moved the Pearly Gates
on the Obama administration. Now they have moved them again.
They risk never being satisfied, becoming part of the cranky
right and its war against women. They can’t seem to work up much
outrage over insurance plans that cover erectile-dysfunction
drugs, for example.  Partisan Fights  Last spring,  Rush Limbaugh  went after a law student who had
testified before Congress about the need for health insurance to
cover contraception, calling her a “slut” and professing himself
“surprised she can even walk” after so much sex. Far from
distancing themselves from Limbaugh, Republicans were largely on
board with his statements.  Party standard-bearer Mitt Romney would  say only  that
Limbaugh’s was “not the language I would have used.” Senator  Roy Blunt  of Missouri introduced the  Blunt amendment , which would
have extended the religious exemption to any employer. Let’s say
you are a married 25-year-old woman flipping Whoppers at Burger
King and paying your share of the premiums for your employer-
provided health insurance. Then the company’s chief executive
decides it offends his conscience to be paying for
contraceptives. You could find another job. Oh, wait: Domino’s
has the same policy, as does McDonald’s, and soon enough so will
Joe the Plumber. There’s no telling how many employers would
find themselves as offended as the bishops.  In a pluralistic society, we have to balance the greater
good against religious liberty. This right isn’t an absolute.
When it considered the subject 23 years ago, the Supreme Court
 ruled that  even if smoking peyote is part of your religious
practice, the government can still arrest you for it. So
observant soldiers might be required to fight on the Sabbath, or
(if they are Quakers) fight at all, while Hare Krishna can’t
play tambourines at the airport.  When a law is reasonable, as unintrusive as possible, and
only incidentally affects religion, there is no exemption
required. In other words: The Obama administration didn’t have
to issue new regulations. But it did. The president didn’t have
to placate the bishops, but he is trying to anyway. Maybe they
should say five Our Fathers and five Hail Marys in gratitude.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  