-- Hearts Owner Romanov’s Ukio Bankas Plummets as Fate in Question
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-02-05T15:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/hearts-owner-romanov-s-ukio-bankas-plummets-as-fate-in-question.html
AB  Ukio Bankas (UKB1L) , the Lithuanian bank
controlled by Edinburgh soccer club  Heart of Midlothian Plc 
owner Vladimir Romanov, fell to an eight-year low as investors
speculated about the unprofitable lender’s rescue or demise.  The shares fell as much as 16 percent today in Vilnius, the
biggest intraday drop since February 2000, closing down 12
percent at 0.095 euro. The company’s value of 32.9 million euros
($44 million) is less than half what it was a year ago. Volume
of 1.7 million shares was the most in a year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Everyone knows the bank’s in poor shape and there are
lots of rumors about what will happen,” Andrius Suminas, a
broker at  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  in Vilnius, said by phone today. “Retail
investors jump on every little bit of bad news and when the
price dips assume somebody must know something they don’t.”  Ukio Bankas in October reported a group net loss of 44
million litai ($17 million) for the first nine months of 2012.
Since then, it has had to assuage investor concerns about the
quality of its loans, the valuation of real-estate it owns and
probes of Russian money that was laundered through its accounts.  More than 1 million shares of Ukio Bankas last traded on
Dec. 19, when news portal Eversus.lt said the Lithuanian central
bank wants to merge Ukio Bankas with AB  Siauliu Bankas (SAB1L)  with aid
from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The
portal didn’t name a source and the institutions it mentioned
declined to comment or denied knowledge of the matter when
contacted by Bloomberg.  Ukio Ownership  Romanov owns 64.9 percent of Ukio Bankas shares, according
to a note in the bank’s earnings report. He is also chairman of
the board and at least part owner of a sister investment
company, Ukio Banko Investicine Grupe, or UBIG.  UBIG, which controls Scottish football team Hearts, on Jan.
8 took advantage of a new Lithuanian law allowing the company to
pledge all of its assets as collateral for a purpose it has not
disclosed, the delfi.lt news portal reported today, citing the
company register. Since Dec. 7, Ukio Bankas has owned a company
that owns 17 percent of UBIG shares, while Romanov owns another
17 percent directly, delfi.lt said.  The Bank of Lithuania is currently conducting an annual
inspection of Ukio Bankas, the results of which will be made
public in due course, central bank spokesman Giedrius
Simonavicius said by phone today.  The Kaunas-based lender is due to report preliminary
fourth-quarter results on Feb. 28 and audited full-year
financial statements on March 8.  “Current moves in the share price are being driven by
strongly negative sentiments and speculation among small local
investors, with no sign of activity by institutional
investors,” Swedbank’s Suminas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  