-- Eaton CEO Says China GDP Report Overstates Growth Rate
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-02-05T23:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/eaton-ceo-says-china-gdp-report-overstates-growth-rate.html
China’s official 7.8 percent economic
growth for 2012 may have overstated expansion by twice the real
rate, and is only now headed for a “legitimate” 8 percent
gain,  Eaton Corp.  Chief Executive Officer  Sandy Cutler  said.  Based on indicators such as consumer consumption and
electric power usage, China’s gross domestic product probably
grew 3 percent to 4 percent last year, Cutler said yesterday in
a telephone interview. Growth is accelerating now that China is
past the distractions from its leadership change, he said.  “That’s what we and so many multinational companies have
been feeling there in China for the last year and a half, the
economy really hasn’t been growing at 7 or 8 percent,” Cutler
said. “If we could get back to an 8 percent growth rate in
China for 2013, that would be a pretty darn good year.”  His skepticism about the data echoes complaints from
economists such as  Li Wei  of Standard Chartered Plc in Shanghai
that China had inflated third-quarter growth before the November
congress where the ruling Communist Party had its decennial
transfer of power. Cutler runs a manufacturer that got more than
half its 2012 revenue of $16.3 billion from outside the U.S.  Mark Williams  and  Qinwei Wang , economists with Capital
Economics Ltd. in London, wrote in October that China’s third-
quarter economic growth of 7.4 percent was “implausible.”
Standard Chartered said in October its analysis indicated the
economy expanded 6.5 percent in the quarter.  New Leader  China’s government reported that GDP growth decelerated
from 9.3 percent in 2011 and 10.4 percent in 2010.  Xi Jinping 
became Communist Party general secretary in November.  China tended to “tamp down” reported GDP expansion as it
ran at 12 percent or more in 2006 and 2007, Cutler said. The
government boosted the official tally after slowing growth to
quell inflation, said Cutler, 61, whose businesses at Eaton
include hydraulic equipment, aerospace parts and drive trains
for trucks.  “Coming out of the 2008 recession when they had this huge
stimulus program, the economy got really hot and they had to
cool it off,” Cutler said in an interview following Eaton’s
quarterly earnings report. “Now that the new government has
been seated, you’re more likely to see the preconditions for
more growth in China.”  China’s economy is likely to gain strength as the year
unfolds, Cutler said. Orders for hydraulic parts from
construction-equipment makers are beginning to pick up, he said.  In the U.S., housing and non-residential construction will
help drive economic growth of about 2 percent, Cutler said.
Eaton, which completed the purchase of  Cooper Industries Plc  on
Nov. 30, sells electrical equipment for home and commercial
construction, giving it a good glimpse into future demand,
Cutler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Black in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  