-- Heavy Canada Oil Strengthens to 2-Month High on Eastern Lines
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-02-05T21:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/heavy-canada-oil-strengthens-to-2-month-high-on-eastern-lines.html
Canadian heavy crude oil strengthened
to the highest level in two months on increased optimism that
new eastern pipelines will resolve some of the bottlenecks in
Western  Canada ’s transport system.  Several Canadian politicians have thrown their support
behind proposals to convert existing pipelines to send light oil
to refineries on the country’s eastern coast, where it would
replace oversees imports and open on space on southbound lines
for the heavier crudes.  “The west-east pipeline proposals in Canada are getting
more traction, and that is getting some play in the market right
now,” said David Bouckhout, senior commodity strategist at TD
Securities in Calgary.  Western Canada Select, the benchmark for heavy oil-sands
bitumen, strengthened by $1.20 a barrel to a $29 discount to
West Texas Intermediate crude, the U.S. benchmark, according to
Calgary oil broker Net Energy Inc. It was the narrowest spread
since Dec. 4.  Alberta Premier Alison Redford and  New Brunswick  Premier
David Alward are meeting in Calgary today to announce support
for a  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  proposal to convert one of its cross-
Canada natural gas lines into an oil pipeline. New Brunswick is
home to Canada’s largest refinery, Irving Oil Corp.’s 300,000
barrel-a-day plant in Saint John.  Reversing Line 9  Canadian Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver told the
 Canadian Press  on Feb. 1 that the government supports
TransCanada’s proposal, as well as a plan by  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  to
reverse its Line 9 pipeline to send 200,000 barrels a day to
eastern refineries in  Quebec , as long as they meet environmental
requirements.  TransCanada said last month it’s still reviewing its
conversion proposal, which would cost about C$5 billion ($5.02
billion), be completed in 2017 and replace some of the more than
600,000 barrels a day of overseas imports with North American
 crude oil .  Longer-dated Western Canada Select crude contracts also
gained strength. The contract for April delivery rose $1.50 to a
$30.75 discount, according to Net Energy.  Earlier today, BP Plc Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley
said during an earnings conference call that the company’s
Whiting refinery in Indiana won’t be able to process heavy
Canadian crude at full rates until 2014.  Bloomberg News  had
reported Dec. 14 that the startup of the 225,000 unit being
converted to process heavy crude won’t begin ramping up until at
least June.  Much of the news about the Whiting delay has been already
priced into Western Canada Select, which reached a record
discount of $42.50 below West Texas Intermediate on Dec. 14,
Bouckhout said.  In a research note today,  Paul Cheng , an analyst at
Barclays Plc’s investment-banking unit, said that the Western
Canada Select price will be depressed until the second half of
next year because of limited pipeline and refinery capacity. It
will eventually stabilize at a $15-to-$20 discount to WTI, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  