-- Techint Says CSN Sues for $2.65 Billion Over Usiminas
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-02-05T20:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/techint-says-csn-sues-for-2-65-billion-over-usiminas.html
Techint Group said  Cia. Siderurgica
Nacional SA (CSNA3)  has filed suit in Brazil seeking 5.26 billion reais
($2.65 billion) in payments for minority shareholders related to
the purchase of a stake in  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA .  The suit alleges that Techint’s  Ternium SA (TX)  and  Tenaris SA (TEN) 
subsidiaries were required under Brazilian law to offer minority
shareholders like CSN 80 percent of the 36 reais-a-share they
paid for a stake in Brazil’s second-largest steelmaker, the
units said in separate statements today. Sao Paulo-based CSN
declined to confirm the lawsuit.  Techint, founded by Italy’s billionaire Rocca family, last
year acquired a 27.7 percent voting stake in Usiminas, becoming
one of three entities in a group that controls the company. The
purchase thwarted takeover efforts by CSN, which built a 20.14
percent stake in  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-based Usiminas’s
preferred stock and 11.97 percent of its common shares.  “CSN’s allegations are groundless and without merit, as
confirmed by several opinions of Brazilian counsel and previous
decisions by Brazil’s securities regulator,” Ternium and
Tenaris said in the statements. Buying the stake and becoming a
member of the controlling group doesn’t trigger the automatic
offer to other minority shareholders, the units said.  Usiminas declined to comment. Its voting shares  climbed  4.1
percent to 11.25 reais at the close in  Sao Paulo  today, the most
since Jan. 2 and the second-best performer on Brazil’s benchmark
Bovespa  Index. (IBOV)  The company’s preferred shares  rose  0.9 percent
to 10.03 reais.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  