-- EDF May End U.K. Nuclear Plan Unless Profit Guaranteed, CEO Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-02-05T08:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/edf-may-end-u-k-nuclear-plan-unless-profit-guaranteed-ceo-says.html
Electricite de France SA ’s chief
executive officer said he’s willing to join  Centrica (CNA)  Plc in
walking away from building the U.K.’s first reactors in two
decades unless the government ensures the project is profitable.  “We won’t do it” if if the price for their power isn’t
high enough, CEO  Henri Proglio  said in an interview in Bure,
eastern  France . “I won’t qualify myself as confident, but
rather conscious that an agreement can be reached” on prices.  Centrica, Britain’s largest household energy supplier,
yesterday opted out of a plan to build atomic plants in the U.K.
with EDF, citing rising costs and delays. It had an option to
take a stake in four new reactors at two of EDF’s power
stations. Should EDF follow suit, the country would be left
without any commitments from utilities to build new nuclear at a
time when it’s seeking investment to replace aging plants.  EDF, the world’s biggest nuclear operator, is looking for
an investor to share the cost of reactors at Hinkley Point in
southwest  England  and Sizewell in eastern England. The French
utility and the U.K. government are still negotiating how much
EDF will earn for power generated at the new plants.  “I have no reason to take the pressure off the people I’m
talking to,” Proglio said late yesterday.  China Talks  EDF has held talks with China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group
Co. on joining the U.K. projects and there are “potentially
other partners,” Proglio said in September. CGNPC’s interest
was reaffirmed last month by Herve Machenaud, head of production
and engineering. Proglio declined to comment further yesterday
on potential partners, saying only that the project must be
“clearly structured” before an alliance can be agreed upon.  “We have contacts, but these could change,” he said. “We
need more details about the project, to see whether economic
conditions are met.”  German utilities  EON SE (EOAN)  and  RWE AG (RWE)  abandoned a British
atomic-power project last year, saying they couldn’t justify the
capital expenditure. EDF’s U.K. reactors would be the same model
as one being developed in Flamanville, Normandy, where costs
have swelled following revisions to its design, as well as
changes made in the wake of  Japan ’s Fukushima disaster.  EDF began building the 1,650-megawatt Flamanville reactor
in December 2007 for an initial estimate of 3.3 billion euros
($4.4 billion). It has revised cost projections every year since
2010, bringing the figure to about 8.5 billion euros in
December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  