-- Medvedev Seen Clinging to Job as Putin Frets About Economy
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-02-06T09:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/medvedev-seen-clinging-to-job-as-mentor-putin-frets-on-economy.html
Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  is
clinging to his job as President  Vladimir Putin  grows
increasingly frustrated with his protege’s inability to boost
growth, three current and former Kremlin advisers said.  Putin criticized Medvedev’s government last week for
failing to adapt to a “post-crisis” economic model. That
followed what Izvestia, a newspaper owned by Putin ally  Yury Kovalchuk , said Jan. 15 was a leaked Kremlin scorecard giving
most ministers either average or “underperforming” marks.
Medvedev said the scores were “plucked out of thin air.”  Medvedev, 47, is in a “very precarious position,”  Sergei Markov , a political adviser to Putin’s staff and vice rector of
the Plekhanov Russian University of Economics, said in an
interview in Moscow. “He has a promise from Putin about his
role as prime minister, but there are some very powerful forces
that see him as a threat.”  Putin, 60, was forced by the constitution to cede the
presidency after his second-straight term ended in 2008.
Medvedev, the prime minister at the time, became president and
appointed Putin his premier. The two swapped jobs again last May
after elections that sparked the biggest protests of Putin’s
political career.  Medvedev in a Jan. 23 interview with Bloomberg Television
ruled out running against his mentor in the next presidential
election. That contrasts with a statement two months earlier,
when Medvedev said he struggled to give up the Kremlin and left
open the possibility of seeking the presidency in the future.  ‘One Person’  Putin’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , declined to comment on
the likelihood of Medvedev’s dismissal and characterized the
state of the economy as “good.”  “Only one person knows the answer to this, the
president,” Medvedev’s spokeswoman,  Natalya Timakova , said by
phone, adding that Putin has given a “positive appraisal of the
government’s work.”  Medvedev used his trip to the World Economic Forum in
Davos, Switzerland, last month to lay out his vision of Russia
to global investors and launch an “unprecedented” media blitz
to counter critics at home, said  Igor Yurgens , a Kremlin adviser
during Medvedev’s presidency who is now a member of Putin’s
human-rights watchdog. Recent coverage of Medvedev on Russian
television, which is tightly controlled by the Kremlin, seems
designed to minimize his importance, Yurgens said.  Kudrin Awaits  If Putin does decide to dismiss the government, one
possible candidate to replace Medvedev is former Finance
Minister  Alexei Kudrin , said Yurgens, who works with Kudrin at
the Civic Initiative Committee in Moscow.  Kudrin, who was fired in September 2011 by then-President
Medvedev after a decade in the post, would be a credible voice
on the economy and may also help shore up investor confidence,
said  Tim Ash , head of emerging-market research at  Standard Bank 
Group Ltd. in London. Kudrin, a Putin ally, said as far back as
December 2011 that he was interested in becoming premier.  “Markets would love that,” Ash said by e-mail. Kudrin
“is seen as an experienced reformer and I don’t think people
believe Medvedev has much political capital left.”  Russian stocks are the cheapest of 21 emerging markets
tracked by Bloomberg. The  Micex Index  trades at 5.7 times
estimated earnings, about half the ratio for the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index.  ‘Huge Pressure’  In a Bloomberg Television interview in Davos, Medvedev
defended the posthumous trial of  Sergei Magnitsky , a lawyer for
Hermitage Capital Management Ltd. who died in prison in 2009
after alleging a $230 million tax fraud by officials. That’s a
u-turn by Medvedev, who as president condemned Magnitsky’s
death, and is a sign of “huge pressure” on him, Yurgens said.  Russia’s handling of the Magnitsky case has sparked
international criticism, including from the U.S., which passed
legislation in Magnitsky’s name that punishes Russian officials
deemed guilty of complicity in his death.  Medvedev’s reversal on Magnitsky is an attempt to assuage
hardliners who are growing increasingly opposed to the premier,
Yurgens said.  Last year’s growth of 3.4 percent was the lowest since
Putin came to power in 1999 except for 2009, when Russia’s
economy contracted along with most of the world.  Russia’s central bank isn’t under pressure from the
government over interest rates, First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said today. Last week Putin complained that high
borrowing costs were choking credit flows needed to stoke the
economy.  ‘Powerful Coalition’  The slowdown is playing into the hands of Medvedev’s
opponents, some of whom are frustrated by his ability to deliver
on promises to cut the state’s role in the economy and
liberalize the political system, said  Gleb Pavlovsky , a former
Kremlin adviser who heads the Moscow-based Effective Policy
Foundation.  “Although the main attack is not being waged by Putin but
by allies of his, these forces are uniting into a powerful
coalition,” Pavlovsky said. “Medvedev’s position as prime
minister is weakening.”  Maybe so, but that doesn’t necessarily mean that his days
are numbered because Putin may want a scapegoat if the economy
takes a steeper turn, said  Mikhail Vinogradov , head of the St.
Petersburg Politics Foundation research group.  Fearing Change  “All outcomes are possible -- from Medvedev’s dismissal to
him serving out the full term until 2018,” Vinogradov said by
phone. “The fear by the authorities of any changes may mean
they don’t replace the government for the time being.”  Some of Medvedev’s deputies are nevertheless starting to
gravitate away from him.  On Feb. 1, Deputy Prime Minister  Dmitry Kozak  said Russia
would decide shortly whether to reinstate daylight savings time.
Medvedev, as president in 2011, abolished the practice of moving
clocks back an hour each winter, in part to benefit farming.
Putin and most of the country, according to polls, criticized
the move, which delayed sunrise to mid-morning.  That was another “unpleasant” signal for Medvedev,  Alexei Mukhin , head of the Center for Political Information, said by
phone from Moscow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  