-- Teekay to Euronav Win as Iraq Oil to EU Fills Iran Void: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f   a n d   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-02-05T14:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/teekay-to-euronav-win-as-iraq-oil-to-eu-fills-iran-void-freight.html
Oil tankers designed to navigate
 Egypt ’s  Suez Canal  are getting the most cargoes in at least
three years as Iraq fills a void left when the European Union
halted crude imports from Iran in July.  Northbound shipments on Suezmaxes climbed 36 percent to 31
a month last year, the highest tally since at least 2009, as
Iraqi output grew, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Rates for
the vessels carrying 1 million barrels each will rise 14 percent
to $17,000 a day this year, Morgan Stanley estimates. The
cargoes benefit owners from Teekay Tankers Ltd. to  Euronav NV (EURN) ,
which together control more than 10 percent of the global fleet.  Europe ’s embargo stopped shipments dependent on Iran’s own
tankers that were too big to navigate the canal and needed to
discharge cargo into an adjacent pipeline. Growing imports from
 Iraq , which doesn’t have its own fleet, are spurring demand for
the smaller Suezmaxes at a time when OPEC is making the deepest
output cuts since the 2008 global recession. Only three ports in
Europe regularly receive the biggest vessels.  “There is a lot of substitution of Iranian oil with Iraqi
and that’s good because Iran had its own fleet and Iraq has no
ships,” said Odysseas Valatsas, chartering manager of Dynacom
Tankers Management Ltd., a closely held Athens-based owner whose
fleet includes 25 Suezmaxes. “They are also sending more direct
to ports using Suezmaxes than Iran ever did.”  Lower Expenses  Oil companies  favor Suezmaxes because they cost about 33
percent less than the bigger vessels for journeys to Europe.
Shipping a barrel of Persian Gulf oil to the Mediterranean on a
Suezmax costs $1.27, compared with $1.91 on a very large crude
carrier, or VLCC, as the bigger tankers are known, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Shares of  Teekay Tankers (TNK)  will rally 25 percent in the next
12 months, the average of five analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg shows. The Hamilton, Bermuda-based company, a unit of
the world’s largest publicly traded owner of Suezmaxes and
operator of 25 of the tankers, is down 2.4 percent this year to
$2.83 on the  New York  Stock Exchange.  Euronav, based in Antwerp,  Belgium , and the third-largest
owner among publicly listed companies with 23 Suezmaxes, is
forecast to gain 14 percent in the next year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The stock has dropped 3.7 percent in 2013
to 4.42 euros in Brussels trading. Trading was halted until 5
p.m. today as the company offers holders of  convertible bonds 
due in 2015 the chance to extend the maturity by three years.  Biggest Shipbroker  Hamilton, Bermuda-based  Nordic American Tankers Ltd. (NAT)  is the
second-largest owner of the ships, according to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) ,
the world’s biggest shipbroker.  Euronav’s net loss will narrow to $53.1 million this year,
from $85.9 million in 2012, according to the average of six
analyst estimates. Teekay Tankers will lose $15.7 million this
year, narrowing to $5.4 million in 2014, eight estimates show.  “The biggest increase in the northbound cargoes is Basra
from Iraq replacing Iranian crude,” Teekay Tankers’ Chief
Excutive Officer Bruce Chan said in a telephone interview from
 Vancouver  on Jan. 30. Suezmaxes are sometimes hauling Iraq’s oil
as far as the U.S. Gulf, driving up average distances and so-
called ton-mile demand, he said.  Oil output from Iraq, the second-largest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, climbed 16
percent in the past year as the nation rebuilt after more than
three decades of wars and sanctions.  Iran ’s production plunged
18 percent to 2.6 million barrels a day since Europe’s ban began
in July, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Waning Demand  Other OPEC members are curbing output in response to
slowing European and U.S. demand. The group, supplier of about
40 percent of the world’s oil, has cut supply almost 2 million
barrels a day in the five months through January, the biggest
reduction since the recession.  Europe’s economy, which accounts for 15 percent of global
consumption, will contract 0.2 percent this year, according to
the median of 52 economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
The U.S., the world’s biggest oil buyer, imported an average of
8.65 million barrels a day last year, the least since 1999,
Energy Department data show.  “The demand side is being messed around with by the U.S.
situation,” said Nigel Prentis, the head of consultancy at
Hartland Shipping Services Ltd., a London-based shipbroker.
“The net effect is it erodes ton-mile demand.”  Vessel Orders  Suezmax earnings slumped 52 percent in the past year to
$10,674 a day, according to London-based Clarkson. Rates are 93
percent below the 2008 record because owners ordered too many
ships before the global recession. Suezmaxes will remain
unprofitable because the 900-foot vessels need $23,700 a day to
break even on average, estimates Pareto Securities AS, an Oslo-
based investment bank.  The glut of vessels extends across the industry. The Baltic
Dry Index, a measure of the cost of hauling coal and iron ore,
plunged 60 percent last year and the Baltic Dirty Tanker Index,
reflecting oil-shipping rates, retreated 18 percent. VLCCs are
making $12,324 a day, 56 percent less than a year ago, according
to Clarkson.  The EU and U.S. are restricting trade with Iran to pressure
the country to stop enriching uranium. Europe’s sanctions also
halted the insurance for about 95 percent of the global tanker
fleet. The government in Tehran says the nuclear development is
for civilian use.  NITC Fleet  Iran used to send cargoes on VLCCs to a pipeline alongside
the Suez Canal for smaller ships to pick up on the other end and
deliver throughout the Mediterranean. NITC, the Tehran-based
tanker company, operates 25 VLCCs and nine Suezmaxes, according
to its website.  Europe’s imports from Iran fell 90 percent to 80,000
barrels a day in October from a year earlier, as production
tumbled 16 percent to 2.6 million barrels a day, within 10,000
barrels of the lowest since 1990, according to the  International
Energy Agency . Iran’s exports averaged 1.2 million barrels a day
in December to buyers including  China ,  South Korea  and  India ,
IEA data show. Its figures for European buying include  Turkey .  Iraqi output jumped 9 percent to 3.2 million barrels a day
since the embargo started, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Supply to Europe surged 33 percent to 560,000 barrels
a day in October from a year earlier, according to the IEA.  Demand for Middle East-to-Mediterranean shipments, the
industry’s largest trade route, will advance 8 percent to 1.3
million barrels a day this year, Clarkson estimates. The route,
now accounting for 16 percent of global demand, overtook the
West Africa-to-U.S. voyage in 2011 as the largest for Suezmaxes,
Clarkson’s figures show.  “This is definitely a welcome boost to a sector that is
seeing structural declines to its historical mainstay trade
routes,” said Simon Newman, an analyst at ICAP Shipping
International Ltd., a London-based shipbroker. “Longer term
they’ll need more new trade routes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  