-- Egypt Foreign Reserves Drop to Lowest in Over 15 Years
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2013-02-05T15:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/egypt-foreign-reserves-drop-to-lowest-in-over-15-years.html
Egypt ’s foreign reserves plunged to
the lowest level in at least 15 years, adding new pressure on
President Mohamed Mursi to secure an International Monetary Fund
loan his government says is key to reviving the economy.  Net  foreign-currency  reserves plunged to $13.6 billion in
January, the central bank said today. The $1.4 billion monthly
drop in reserves, which include currencies, gold and so-called
special drawing rights, is partially due to the payment of $619
million in Paris Club debt, the regulator said. The reserves are
equal to three months of imports, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on central bank data.  Egypt, which is seeking a $4.8 billion loan from the IMF,
has seen its foreign reserves lose 62 percent since the start of
the uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak  amid unrest that’s
curtailed investments and hurt tourism. The central bank started
auctioning dollars to local lenders in December to limit their
access to hard currency after it said reserves dropped to a
“minimum and critical” level, causing the Egyptian pound to
fall the most since its devaluation a decade ago.  “All those pressures on outflow aren’t being offset and it
underscores the urgency of IMF funding and all the funding that
will follow,” said Liz Martins, senior economist at HSBC Middle
East. “These pressures come from a combination of heavy import
costs, oil and food primarily, foreign outflows, and deposit
dollarization.”  Egyptian Pound  Foreign currencies fell to $9 billion from $10.4 billion a
month earlier, the data show. The central bank sold $882.3
million at currency auctions to local banks in January,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The pound has declined 7.6 percent since the central bank
started dollar auctions Dec. 30. Pressure on the currency has
been compounded by violence that started on the second
anniversary of the country’s revolt last month, killing more
than 50 people and prompting Mursi to declare a state of
emergency in three provinces.  The fall in reserves underlines “the limited firepower”
Egypt’s government has in stemming depreciation pressures on the
pound, William Jackson,  emerging markets  analyst at London-based
consultancy Capital Economics, said in an e-mailed statement
today. Capital expects the pound to fall in the coming months to
7.5 to the dollar, he said.  Pound Unchanged  The pound was unchanged at 6.702 a dollar as of 5:24 p.m.
in Cairo after the central bank issued regulations yesterday
capping the interbank trading rate at 1 piaster over the
weighted average at the most recent auction of the U.S.
currency. That compares with a previous spread of 0.5 percent.  Egypt’s economy is struggling to recover from the turmoil
that followed the revolt, growing at about 2 percent a year in
the last two years, the slowest pace since the early 1990s. The
IMF loan, which both sides came to a preliminary agreement on in
November, has been on hold as the government revisits its
economic program in light of the unrest.  The drop in reserves “will put upward pressure on the
official exchange rate and increase the gap between the official
and parallel rates,”  Wael Ziada , head of research at Cairo-
based EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, said by phone. “This may result
in an increase in interest rates to raise the attractiveness of
the Egyptian pound and prevent attempts of dollarization. The
concern is that may lead to an increase in borrowing costs and
hinder economic recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Francis Harris at 
 fharris4@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  