-- Tele2 Shares Drop After Earnings Miss Estimates on Competition
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-02-05T10:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/tele2-shares-drop-after-earnings-miss-estimates-on-competition.html
Tele2 AB (TEL2B)  fell the most in more than
eight months in  Stockholm  after the Swedish telecommunications
provider said fourth-quarter earnings dropped 7 percent, missing
analyst estimates, as competition increased in Russia.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization declined to 2.67 billion kronor ($422 million) from
2.87 billion kronor a year earlier, falling short of the 2.96
billion-krona average of 13 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Tele2 wrote off 45 million kronor for Russia, mostly for
inventory, it said in a statement today.  Tele2 shares  fell as
much as 11 percent, the biggest intraday drop since May 17.  With its older Russian regions maturing and rivals seeking
to win over consumers, it’s more costly to find new mobile
users, Chief Executive Officer Mats Granryd said in an interview
today. Tele2 intends to be more competitive on price in the
country, affecting profit in the short term, Granryd said in the
statement. The Stockholm-based company made 30 percent of its
revenue from  Russia  in the quarter.  Even adjusting for the Russia write-off and startup losses
in eastern regions of the country, total Ebitda would have
missed consensus estimates by 5 percent, Barry Zeitoune, a
London-based analyst at Berenberg Bank, said in a note today.
“Guidance implies a 6 percent cut to 2013 Ebitda estimates,”
he said.  Tele2 shares declined 9.9 percent to 103 kronor as of
11:24 a.m., bringing the fall to 23 percent in 12 months.  ‘Growth Engine’  The fourth-quarter Ebitda margin in Russia contracted to 37
percent from 40 percent a year earlier.  New regions in Russia, which are more profitable, are
expected to help balance declining margins elsewhere in the
country, Granryd said, adding he expects the Russian Ebitda
margin to decline “one to two percentage points” over 2013.  “It’s becoming a bit more expensive to keep that growth
engine going” in Russia, Granryd said. “It’s maturing a bit,
but we are convinced getting new subscribers is the right
strategy.”  In  Sweden , Tele2’s largest market outside of Russia, sales
last quarter rose 2 percent. The company spent more money
subsidizing the sale of high-end smartphones, which weighed on
profitability and brought its Ebitda margin for its mobile
business down to 29 percent from 33 percent a year earlier.  “If people were to move away from Apple more into other
smartphones, that would be beneficial to us,” Granryd said.
“The iPhone 5 “is hurting us, let’s put it that way. If people
would choose an Android-based phone that would benefit us.”
Android is  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s operating system for mobile phone.  Fourth-quarter net income fell 57 percent from a year
earlier to 565 million kronor, missing the 1.17 billion-krona
average of 11 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed
3.9 percent to 11.3 billion kronor.  Tele2 proposed a dividend of 7.1 kronor a share, up from
6.5 kronor a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  