-- Telefonica Fights for Right to Contest Tax-Break Ban at EU Court
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-02-05T11:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/telefonica-fights-for-right-to-contest-tax-break-ban-at-eu-court.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  is seeking the right to
contest outlawed tax breaks at the European Union’s courts, in a
case that may pave the way for swathes of direct appeals from
companies seeking swifter justice on state-aid decisions than
they may get in national tribunals.  Spain’s largest telephone operator wants the right to
directly challenge a European Commission decision to block
national  tax aid  deemed to unfairly reward companies for buying
foreign competitors. Telefonica claims it was affected by the
state-aid veto and should be allowed to fight it at the
Luxembourg-based  EU Court of Justice .  Granting Telefonica the right to be heard “could open
substantially the door for appeals in future cases that
traditionally would have been declared inadmissible,” Javier
Ruiz Calzado, a lawyer for Telefonica, said in an interview
after a hearing at the EU’s highest court yesterday. Direct
appeals would give firms “faster, surer and probably better
judicial review.”  The Brussels-based commission started investigating in 2007
after complaints that the tax rules gave Spanish companies an
unfair advantage. Before the two-year EU probe, Spanish
companies had been on a buying spree, with Telefonica purchasing
U.K. mobile-phone operator O2 Plc and  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  buying
Scottish Power Plc. The commission’s decision called for
recovery of any subsidies applied to deals after December 2007.  A lower EU court  ruled  last year that Telefonica can’t
directly appeal because it was a potential and not a direct
beneficiary of the tax break. That was “legally wrong,” Ruiz
Calzado told the top EU court’s 15-judge panel, which is
reserved for the most important cases.  General Court  Telefonica was told last year that the only way to
challenge the state aid decision’s validity was to go to a
national court and get it to refer questions to the EU’s top
court.  This is a circuitous route that could take as long as five
more years before a case is actually referred back to the EU
court, said Ruiz Calzado.  Telefonica wants the EU top court to uphold its right to
appeal the commission decision and send the case back to the
lower EU tribunal, known as the General Court, to be re-
examined.  The Spanish tax program “was open to any Spanish
company and the commission decision never took account of the
individual beneficiaries of the aid, therefore the beneficiaries
of the aid are not individually concerned,” Carlos Urraca
Caviedes, a lawyer for the commission, told the court yesterday.  Still, Urraca Caviedes told the court that Spain had
submitted a list of beneficiaries of the Spanish system to the
commission and this list included Telefonica.  The company was a beneficiary until December 2007, for
which it didn’t have to pay back aid, and the risk of it being
challenged over potential benefits after that period is
“absolutely and purely hypothetical,” he said.  The case is: C-274/12 P, Telefonica v. Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  