-- Emerging-Market Stocks Drop Most in a Week as Energy Shares Slip
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-02-05T22:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/emerging-stocks-decline-most-in-six-weeks-as-htc-sinopec-slump.html
Emerging-market stocks slid the most
in a week, led by energy companies, as China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. sank on a share-sale plan. The rand strengthened
after South Africa’s unemployment unexpectedly fell.  China Petroleum, or  Sinopec , fell the most since August
2011 in Hong Kong after saying it will raise HK$24 billion ($3.1
billion) from a share sale.  ICICI Bank Ltd. , India’s second-
largest lender by assets, dropped to its lowest since Jan. 24.
 OAO MRSK Holding  declined 1.1 percent on a report Russia will
maintain control over its stake in Federal Grid Co. after its
merger with MRSK.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  slumped to a seven-year
low in Sao Paulo on weaker-than-expected earnings.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  lost 0.5 percent to
1,067.61 in New York. Euro-area  retail sales  fell 0.8 percent in
December, more than economists estimated, led by declines in
Germany and Spain. The National Institute of Economic and Social
Research said the U.K. economy faces risks of prolonged
stagnation. The rand gained 1 percent versus the dollar after
the South African unemployment rate fell more than expected in
the fourth quarter as more people gave up on seeking work.  “The news flow will still be patchy and volatile,”
 Christopher Wong , senior investment manager at Aberdeen Asset
Management Asia Ltd., which oversees more than $90 billion of
regional equities, said by phone from Singapore. “There will be
recoveries and shocks, so it is not as rosy at it seems.”  Brazil Stocks  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, rose 0.1
percent to $43.97 following a 1.3 percent drop yesterday. The
 Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility
Index , a measure of options prices on the fund and expectations
of price swings, tumbled 7.8 percent to 18.40.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 1 percent as
corporate earnings topped analyst forecasts and Dell Inc. agreed
to be taken private. Service industries in the U.S. expanded in
January at about the same pace as the prior month, driving
demand for more workers, data from the Institute for Supply
Management showed today.  Brazil’s Bovespa declined 0.2 percent as Petrobras, the
state-controlled oil company, tumbled 8.3 percent to the lowest
price since August 2005 after reporting earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 11.9 billion
reais in the fourth quarter, compared with an average estimate
of 14.6 billion reais among analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Preferred shares of  Itau Unibanco Holding SA , Latin
America’s largest lender by market value, jumped 2.5 percent
after reporting a reduction in provisions for bad loans in the
fourth quarter.  Czech Index  The Czech Republic’s  PX index  lost 0.9 percent to its
lowest close since Dec. 11. Russia’s Micex added 0.3 percent,
reversing yesterday’s 0.8 percent slide, as oil rebounded from
the biggest loss in two months.  Turkey’s ISE National 100 gauge slumped for the first time
in three days, dropping 0.5 percent. Last week’s 5.6 percent
drop in MSCI Turkey Index is a “pull-back to get in,”  David Aserkoff  and Saharsh Kumar, analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
said in an e-mailed report today. JPMorgan reiterated its
overweight recommendation on Turkish stocks, according to the
report.  Hungary’s benchmark climbed 0.9 percent, leading gains
among emerging markets in Eastern Europe. Romania’s BET Index
rose 0.4 percent as the central bank left its benchmark interest
rate unchanged at a record low of 5.25 percent for a seventh
consecutive time. The Romanian leu weakened 0.2 percent against
the euro, depreciating for a second day.  Won Retreats  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. fell 0.2 percent to 97.66, the lowest
close since Dec. 28. Baidu Inc., China’s most used-search
engine, dropped 10 percent, the most since September 2011, after
the stock was downgraded and analysts lowered price targets.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of companies listed
in Hong Kong fell 2.8 percent, the steepest drop since July 23.
Taiwan’s Taiex Index slid 0.5 percent and South Korea’s Kospi
index lost 0.8 percent. The won retreated as data showed global
investors cut their stock holdings last month. The Philippine
Stock Exchange Index rose to a record for a third day.  Gauges  of energy companies and financial stocks in the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index fell at least 0.7 percent, the most among
10 industry groups. The developing-nations measure has added 1.2
percent this year, trailing a 5 percent advance by the  MSCI
World Index . The emerging-markets index trades at 10.9 times
estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s 13.7 times,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Banco de Mexico Governor  Agustin Carstens  said a “perfect
storm” may be forming in the world economy as signs of a
recovery spur capital flows to emerging markets and some
advanced nations that may lead to asset bubbles.  The ruble gained 0.5 percent versus the dollar as Russia’s
inflation for January accelerated 7.1 percent, the fastest pace
in 15 months. That bolstered the central bank’s case to resist
government calls for lower borrowing costs. Economists projected
an increase to 6.9 percent, according to the median of 21
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Putin Decree  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 272 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase’s EMBI Global Index.  MRSK  fell for a second day in Moscow. Russia’s government
will maintain control of Federal Grid, Vedomosti newspaper
reported today, citing an unidentified official. President
Vladimir Putin in November signed a decree, transferring 79.55
percent of Federal Grid’s shares to MRSK.  AFK Sistema  declined
2.2 percent in London trading, the most since Jan. 10.  E-Star Alternativ Nyrt., the Hungarian energy company that
filed for bankruptcy protection in December, tumbled 15 percent,
extending its two-day loss to 28 percent, after failing to agree
with creditors on an extension of payment deadlines.  Quarterly Sales  Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd. , South Africa’s biggest
generic drugmaker, rose 3 percent, the most since Dec. 18. The
company is in talks for a potential acquisition of U.S. medicine
producer Merck & Co.’s Dutch unit, Aspen said.  Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., controlled by Indian
billionaire  Dilip Shanghvi , jumped 4.1 percent in Mumbai, the
most since November 2011, after the U.S. approved the company’s
generic version of Johnson & Johnson’s cancer drug Doxil. ICICI
Bank fell 1.3 percent, reversing yesterday’s 0.9 percent gain.  HTC Corp. , Taiwan’s largest smartphone maker, sank 6.8
percent in the steepest retreat since Nov. 13. First-quarter
sales will be NT$50 billion ($1.7 billion) to NT$60 billion, the
company said yesterday, compared with NT$64.8 billion expected
by analysts.  Sinopec, Asia’s biggest oil refiner by output,  tumbled  6.4
percent in its fourth day of losses. The company will sell 2.85
billion Hong Kong-traded shares at HK$8.45 each, 9.5 percent
less than yesterday’s close. It plans to use the money for
“general corporate purposes,” it said in a statement
yesterday, without giving more details. American depositary
receipts of Sinopec added 1.1 percent after dropping to the
lowest price since Dec. 28 yesterday.  Planes and Trains  China Southern Airlines Co., the nation’s biggest carrier
by passengers, slid 4.3 percent in Hong Kong, while  Air China
Ltd.  and China Eastern Airlines Corp. retreated 3.1 percent.
Beijing Capital International Airport., the world’s second-
busiest airport by passengers, said regulators will allow it to
charge domestic carriers’ international flights the same fees as
foreign carriers effective April 1.  CSR Corp., a Chinese trainmaker, rose 4.1 percent in Hong
Kong. Zhuzhou CSR Times Electric Co., which supplies electrical
systems for China’s railways, gained 4.5 percent.  “Railway and industrial stocks are moving because they are
laggards during the recent market rally that’s mainly being
driven by financials,” Wang Zheng, chief investment officer at
Jingxi Investment Management Co., which manages $120 million,
said in Shanghai.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  