-- Hemispherx Fails to Win U.S. Approval for Chronic Fatigue
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-02-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/hemispherx-fails-to-win-u-s-approval-for-chronic-fatigue.html
Hemispherx Biopharma Inc. (HEB) , the maker
of an injectable medicine for genital warts, failed for the
second time to win U.S. approval for a drug to treat chronic
fatigue syndrome.  The Food and Drug Administration will require the company
to conduct at least one addition clinical trial of the medicine,
called Ampligen, complete various nonclinical studies and
perform further data analysis, Philadelphia-based Hemispherx
said yesterday in a statement. Those with chronic fatigue
syndrome are plagued by severe, continued tiredness triggered by
an unknown cause, according to the National Institutes of
Health.  An FDA advisory panel determined in December that Ampligen
hadn’t been proven effective. The agency’s staff raised
questions about the company’s lack of safety data on the drug.
The FDA rejected the treatment in 2009 and requested more data
on its effectiveness.  “The agency stated that the submitted data do not provide
substantial evidence of efficacy of Ampligen for the treatment
of CFS and that the data do not provide sufficient information
to determine whether the product is safe for use in CFS,”
Hemispherx said in its statement.  Hemispherx said the data provided are sufficient to
establish the drug’s safety and it will request a conference
with the FDA to discuss future action.  There are no drugs approved for chronic fatigue syndrome,
only those that treat symptoms. Doctors prescribe painkillers,
anti-anxiety drugs and antidepressants to help ease symptoms,
according to NIH.  The FDA plans a series of activities focused on developing
drugs for the syndrome that will help determine how companies
can best prove the efficacy of their products. The agency held a
teleconference with patients in September, according to the
FDA’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  