-- Euro-Area Services Output Contracts Less Than Estimated
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-02-05T09:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/euro-area-services-output-shrank-less-than-estimated-in-january.html
European  services output  shrank less
than initially estimated in January, adding to signs the
currency bloc’s economy may be beginning to emerge from a
recession.  An index based on a survey of purchasing managers in the
services industry rose to 48.6 from 47.8 in December, London-
based Markit Economics said in a report today. That’s above an
 initial estimate  of 48.3 published on Jan. 24. A reading below
50 indicates contraction. The gauge has been below that mark for
12 months.  The 17-nation currency bloc’s economy will stagnate in the
first three months of this year after contracting for a third
successive quarter at the end of 2012, according to the median
of 26 economists’ forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. Economic
confidence in January rose to the highest since June.  “The euro zone is showing clear signs of healing, with the
downturn easing sharply in January and the region moving closer
to stabilization in the first quarter,” Chris Williamson, chief
economist at Markit, said in today’s report.  The euro extended gains against the dollar after today’s
report was released, trading at $1.3540 at 10:15 a.m. in
Brussels, up 0.2 percent on the day.  ‘Darkest Clouds’  A composite gauge of euro-area  services and manufacturing 
output improved to 48.6 from 47.2 in December, today’s report
showed. Markit’s index of  manufacturing output , released on Feb.
1, climbed to 47.9 from 46.1.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said on Jan.
22 that the worst of the debt crisis may be over and the
“darkest clouds” have lifted thanks to decisive policy steps
last year.  Still,  euro-area unemployment  of 11.7 percent and continued
austerity measures by governments across the euro area may
undermine consumer sentiment and spending.  Hannover Re (HNR1) , the world’s fourth-biggest reinsurer, said
yesterday that it expects earnings to remain little changed this
year as tougher competition weighs on growth rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  