-- Euro Will ‘Relax’ Before Run Higher, FX Concepts’s Taylor Says
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-02-05T01:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/euro-will-relax-before-run-higher-fx-concepts-s-taylor-says.html
The euro will drop this week before
recovering through the rest of February as banks begin to repay
the  European Central Bank ’s second tranche of three-year loans,
FX Concepts LLC’s  John Taylor , said.  The shared currency, which has climbed 2.4 percent against
the dollar since Dec. 31, may pull back initially as technical
indicators show its recent advance has been too rapid, Taylor
said in a Feb. 1 telephone interview. Declines may present an
opportunity to buy the euro, he said. The currency gained this
year as banks made early repayments of the first tranche of ECB
loans taken under so-called Longer Term Refinancing Operations a
year ago, shrinking the central bank’s  balance sheet .  “We’re positioned for euro rallies and dollar weakness,”
Taylor, founder and chairman of New York-based currency hedge
fund FX Concepts, said. “The first LTRO flows are over, so we
have a month before we have the next ones, and so in the first
part of February the euro is probably going to relax and maybe
go sideways to down.”  The euro slid 0.1 percent to $1.3504 as of 10:52 a.m. in
 Tokyo  after dropping 0.9 percent yesterday. It reached $1.3711
on Feb. 1, the highest level since Nov. 14, 2011. The 17-nation
currency fell 0.1 percent to 124.95 yen today.  Economists expected a total of 150 billion euros ($203
billion) in early repayment for the first LTRO tranche and 138
billion euros for the second, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey published Jan. 25. The first
opportunity for banks to repay money from the second tranche,
which amounted to 529 billion euros, is Feb. 27.  Technical Indicators  Against the dollar, the euro’s 14-day relative strength
index was 76 on Feb. 1, above the 70 level that indicates to
some traders that a currency has risen too far, too fast and may
be about to reverse. It was at 61 today. Its RSI versus the yen
was 79 at the end of last week and 70 today.  The euro fell against the yen, adding to yesterday’s
decline which was the biggest since June, amid corruption
allegations against Spanish Premier  Mariano Rajoy  and
uncertainty ahead of Italian elections this month.  A poll showed former Italy Premier  Silvio Berlusconi  closed
the gap on front-runner Pier Luigi Bersani even as he appeals a
four-year prison sentence for  tax fraud . Voting takes place on
Feb. 24-25.  The euro will probably drop between March and July as
markets refocus on the “chaotic” political issues in  Europe 
with Italian parliamentary elections on Feb. 24-25, Taylor said.  “The LTRO coming off will put more bidding into the market
for euros, but the Italian stuff will put more selling and so I
would argue that, as of March 1, the euro should be in
trouble,” he said. It will probably fall to $1.20 “at some
point in the year, but I don’t know if it’s going to end up
there.”  The 17-nation currency has risen 2.4 percent this year, the
biggest gain among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes after the Swedish krona.
The dollar has slipped 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  