-- Euro Extends Gains Amid Bets ECB Won’t Weaken Currency
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-02-05T22:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/euro-appreciates-against-dollar-as-services-index-rises.html
The euro gained against the dollar on
speculation that European Central Bank policy makers aren’t
concerned a stronger currency will slow the economic recovery.  The 17-nation common currency advanced versus the majority
of its 16 most-traded peers as the ECB’s balance sheet shrank to
the smallest in almost a year on early loan repayments by euro-
area banks even as French President  Francois Hollande  warned
that a rising currency may deepen the recession. The yen touched
the weakest in almost three years against the dollar as the  Bank
of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said he will step down on
March 19, three weeks early. The ECB meets on Feb. 7.  “I think that the euro could continue to climb higher,”
Douglas Borthwick, a managing director and head of foreign
exchange at Chapdelaine FX in New York, said  in a telephone
interview. “The Japanese said ‘we are weakening our currency,’
the British are staring down the barrel of a downgrade and the
U.S. is weakening the dollar through quantitative easing. The
euro should be trading at the $1.40 level in the next few
months.”  The euro strengthened 0.5 percent to $1.3583 at 5 p.m. in
New York, lower than its five-year average of $1.3715. The yen
slid 1.4 percent to 93.63 per dollar after touching 93.66,
weakest since May 2010. The euro rose 1.9 percent to 127.18 yen
after reaching 127.22, the highest since April 2010.  Peso, Ruble  Mexico ’s peso rose 0.6 percent versus the dollar as Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  called it a “great
currency” in a Twitter post today. Gross, the  Newport Beach ,
California-based founder of the world’s biggest bond-fund
manager, cited the stability of Mexico’s target lending rate,
which has been kept at a record low of 4.5 percent for 32
consecutive meeting’s by Mexico’s central bank.  The ruble gained 0.3 percent against the dollar as oil,
 Russia ’s main export earner, advanced 0.5 percent in New York to
$96.69 per barrel in New York.  The rand appreciated 1 percent after  South Africa ’s mineral
resources minister said the government hasn’t decided whether to
raise mining taxes and won’t nationalize mines. Metals and other
commodities account for about 60 percent of South Africa’s
exports, according to government data for 2012.  The euro extended gains after Luxembourg Finance Minister
Luc Frieden said the currency’s level doesn’t concern him and
its strength follows the economic reality of the  euro zone .  Balance Sheet  “This reflects the fundamental data of the European
economy and I highlight that a year ago we thought that the euro
was incredibly weak,” Frieden said in an interview in Zurich.  Frieden’s comments contrast with the tone of  France ’s
Hollande, who earlier told reporters at the European Parliament
in Strasbourg, France, that the euro area has to use the
currency as an export-promoting tool just like the U.S. and
 China . “We can’t let the euro fluctuate according to the mood
of the market,” he said.  The central bank, which has held its main refinancing rate
at 0.75 percent since July, will make no change at its next
policy decision, according to all 58  economists  surveyed by
 Bloomberg News .  “The ECB looks at this from a broader context -- the euro
is trading close to average since the end of the crisis, there’s
nothing terribly unusual,”  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group of
10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “Some politicians are concerned
about the extent of euro strength, that’s what you saw with
Hollande’s comments today.”  Significant Shrinkage  The ECB’s  balance sheet  dropped 159.1 billion ($215.1
billion) to 2.77 trillion euros in the week ended Feb. 1, the
Frankfurt-based central bank said in a statement. That’s the
lowest level since Feb. 24 last year. ECB lending to banks
declined 140.8 billion to 1.02 trillion.  Its balance sheet is declining just as the  Federal Reserve 
and Bank of  Japan  expand theirs through further monetary
stimulus. That’s pushing the euro higher, threatening to
undermine European exports and a recovery from recession. The
ECB meets Feb. 7.  “The ECB is the core major central bank with a shrinking
balance sheet, and that removes the euro from funding-currency
status,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-exchange strategist at
BNP Paribas SA in New York, said in a telephone interview. “The
ECB balance-sheet shrinking is significant.”  The yen slid after Shirakawa told reporters in  Tokyo  that
he would leave at the same time as two deputy governors on March
19, accelerating a leadership transition that may aid Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign for aggressive easing. He was
scheduled to step down on April 8.  “The rise in euro-yen is more of a Japanese move,” Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist at Gain Capital Group LLC in
New York, said in a telephone interview.  The yen has dropped 8.3 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. The euro has gained 3.1 percent and
the dollar lost 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Taylor Tepper in New York at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  