-- Mexico Says Gas Buildup Caused Pemex Blast, Origin Unclear
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2013-02-05T05:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/mexico-attorney-general-says-pemex-blast-caused-by-gas-buildup.html
The blast that killed at least 37
people at state-owned Petroleos Mexicanos’s headquarters in
Mexico City last week was caused by a gas buildup, the nation’s
Attorney General Jesus Murillo said.  Investigators are still trying to conclude if the gas
buildup was accidental or whether someone caused it
intentionally, Murillo told reporters at a press conference
today in the country’s capital. “We have determined that the
explosion was caused by a gas buildup,” he said.  Murillo said that although the causes of the blast require
further review, authorities have early indications that the
incident involved methane gas. The origins of the gas are still
being investigated and there was no sign of any explosive device
at the site, according to Murillo.  This is the first time Mexican officials have offered an
explanation for the Jan. 31 blast at the so-called B2 building
at the headquarters of the nation’s largest company by revenue
and the world’s fourth-biggest crude producer. Forensic,
chemical and explosive experts from the attorney general’s
office, the  Defense Ministry , the Navy, the U.S. Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives and  Spain ’s National
Police took part in the initial stage of the inquiry.  Pemex employees are set to return to work at the
headquarters complex Feb. 6, Chief Executive Officer, Emilio Lozoya, said at the same event. The buildings were declared safe
after a comprehensive security inspection, he said. The company
had originally suspended work at its administrative offices
until Feb. 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  