-- Mexico Says Gas Buildup Caused Deadliest Blast Since 2006
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2013-02-05T17:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/mexico-says-pemex-gas-buildup-caused-deadliest-blast-since-2006.html
Mexican authorities said a buildup of
gas led to the blast last week that killed 37 people at
Petroleos Mexicanos’s headquarters, the first official attempt
to explain the nation’s deadliest explosion since 2006.  Investigators are still probing whether it was an accident
or someone’s intentional act, Attorney General Jesus Murillo
told reporters at a press conference in the nation’s capital
last night. Authorities have early indications that the Jan. 31
incident involved the detonation of a methane gas leak in the
basement of the building B2 in  Mexico  City, and there were no
signs of any explosives at the scene, he said.  “An accumulation of gas that was combined with a spark
from an electrical system in the building provoked this
tragedy,” Murillo said. “We still need to go through a lot of
steps in order to determine the precise gas that generated the
explosion, its exact point of origin and the analysis of whether
there are people responsible for this.”  The explanation is the first offered by Mexican officials
who have been almost silent since the explosion five days ago at
the downtown campus of the nation’s largest company by revenue
and the world’s fourth-biggest crude producer.  Mexico’s deadliest explosion since a mine accident in 2006
came as President Enrique Pena Nieto, who took office Dec. 1,
planned to submit a bill to increase private investment in the
 energy industry  and lower taxes on Pemex, as the company is
known. The initiative would be the biggest energy-industry
overhaul since the nation seized  oil fields  from British and
U.S. companies 75 years ago.  No Odor  The gas in last week’s incident may have come from the
ground or a nearby machinery room, or it could have been a leak
of natural gas that’s processed in a building across the street
from state-owned Pemex’s headquarters, Murillo said. Liquefied
petroleum gas has been ruled out because of the lack of odor
before the explosion, and whatever gas was involved may have
been accidentally detonated by contractors who were working in
the basement, Murillo said.  Forensic, chemical and explosive experts from the attorney
general’s office, the  Defense Ministry , the Navy, the U.S.
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives and  Spain ’s
National Police took part in the initial stage of the inquiry.  Pemex employees are set to return to work at the
headquarters tomorrow, Chief Executive Officer Emilio Lozoya
said at the press conference last night. The buildings were
declared safe after a comprehensive security inspection, he
said.  The explosion won’t have any financial or economic impact
on Pemex, Lozoya told reporters Feb. 1. The executive took the
helm of the oil producer two months ago.  President Criticized  The blast left shattered windows and gaping holes in walls
on several floors in the building adjacent to the company’s main
office, the second-tallest tower in the country.  The president drew criticism on Feb. 2 after local media
reported he had left Mexico City for a vacation over the
nation’s three-day weekend. He returned to the Mexican capital
and toured the Pemex headquarters late the same day.  Some local media filled the silence with reports that the
blast had been a deliberate attack. Mexico City newspaper La
Jornada cited an unnamed metropolitan policeman as saying a
suspicious suitcase possibly used to deliver an explosive device
had been removed by investigators.  ‘Unfortunate Accident’  Pemex Chief Financial Officer, Mario Beauregard, said the
blast was an “unfortunate accident” that won’t affect the
investment plans for the company this year.  The energy overhaul is on track to be sent to Congress in
the coming months, Beauregard said today in a conference call
with analysts. The blast and the energy bill “are totally
independent events. The blast is a totally isolated event,” he
said.  The cost to protect Pemex debt against non-payment for five
years with credit-default swaps fell one basis point to 117
basis points at 11:47 a.m. in  New York , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face
value if the issuer fails to comply with debt agreements.  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to buy Pemex’s
dollar bonds due 2023 instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed more
than 3 basis points to 171 basis points, returning to levels
before the blast.  The government’s violent war against organized crime may
have sparked speculation that the explosion was an attack.
Mexico has been wracked by drug violence since then-President
 Felipe Calderon  sent troops to fight the nation’s drug gangs
after taking office in December 2006. The drug war resulted in
more than 58,000 deaths during his term, and his government
estimated it shaved one percentage point annually off gross
domestic product.  An explosion carried out by a criminal gang attempting to
steal oil from a pipeline in the state of Puebla killed 28 in
2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  