-- Mexico’s Peso Climbs on on Pimco’s ‘Great Currency’ Post
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2013-02-06T00:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/mexico-peso-advances-as-pimco-s-gross-supports-great-currency-.html
Mexico’s peso rose the most among
major Latin American counterparts as Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  called it a “great currency.”  Gross, the founder of the world’s biggest bond-fund
manager, cited Mexico’s low levels of debt and the stability of
its target lending rate in a Twitter post today extolling the
peso. The central bank has kept benchmark borrowing costs at a
record low 4.5 percent for 32 consecutive meetings.  The currency appreciated 0.6 percent to 12.6316 per U.S.
dollar at 4 p.m. in Mexico City, extending its advance this year
to 1.8 percent after Gross said the peso “looks good.”  “The market knows that Pimco is one of the biggest holders
of Mexican bonds and therefore pesos,”  Ramon Cordova , a
currency trader at Banco Base SA in San Pedro Garza Garcia,
Mexico, said in a telephone interview.  The market has been aware of Gross’s fondness for the peso
for “a long time,” according to Cordova.  On June 19, Newport Beach, California-based Gross wrote on
the Pimco Twitter account that Mexico’s lower debt levels and
higher yields made investing in the country’s bonds instead of
German securities an obvious decision. The peso has rallied 9.5
percent since the comments, the biggest advance among the
dollar’s 16 most-traded counterparts after the Swedish krona.  The International Monetary Fund projected in April that
Mexico’s government debt will equal 43 percent of gross domestic
product this year, versus 110 percent for the U.S., 77 percent
in Germany and 91 percent for the euro area.  Rate Outlook  The currency is also recovering from yesterday’s 0.8
percent rout, when it followed stocks lower amid renewed concern
Europe’s debt crisis will intensify. The S&P 500 plummeted 1.2
percent yesterday, the most since Nov. 14.  There is “diminished” probability of a significant
weakening in the peso, Nomura Holdings Inc. strategist  Benito Berber  said today in a research report to clients. The central
bank will reduce its benchmark rate by 0.5 percentage point
during the second half of this year, Berber said.  Berber said in a telephone interview that policy makers
won’t cut the rate if the currency weakens beyond 13 pesos per
U.S. dollar, inflation increases above 3.5 percent or if growth
tops 3.5 percent this year.  Mexico’s currency gained earlier as European companies from
Munich Re to BP Plc reported earnings that exceeded analysts
estimates, easing concern that sovereign-debt turmoil will
further slow global economic growth.  A buildup of gas led to the deadly blast last week at the
headquarters of state-owned oil company Petroleos Mexicanos,
Attorney General Jesus Murillo told reporters at a press
conference in the nation’s capital last night. There were no
signs of any explosives at the scene, he said.  Yields on peso bonds due in 2022 fell one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 5.02 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The price rose 0.05 centavo to 111.03
centavos per peso. Yields on Pemex dollar bonds due in 2022 rose
three basis points to 3.57 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  