-- MF Global Customer Funds Rules Get Another CFTC Hearing
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-02-05T18:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/mf-global-customer-funds-rules-get-another-cftc-hearing.html
The top U.S. derivatives regulator
discussed proposals to bolster protections for customer funds
after the collapse of MF Global Holdings Ltd. and Peregrine
Financial Group Inc. spurred calls for an overhaul of rules.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission held a roundtable
meeting in  Washington  today following a proposal last year to
increase auditing standards and disclosure of brokerage risks to
clients. Participants discussed efforts to oversee self-
regulatory organizations, including the  CME Group (CME)  Inc., and
their duties to monitor futures brokers.  “We want to ensure we are doing anything and everything to
protect customer funds,”  Bart Chilton , one of three Democrats
on the commission, said today. “We have implemented some things
already and have proposals out for public comment.”  The meeting, the third roundtable in the last year on the
topic, was scheduled 15 months after MF Global filed for
bankruptcy and reported a $1.6-billion shortfall in customer
funds. The shortfall and the collapse of Peregrine less than a
year later prompted scrutiny of the CFTC and self-regulatory
organizations in Congress and the futures industry.  The CFTC on Oct. 23 proposed a series of disclosure
requirements for futures brokers to give customers greater
accounting of their funds. The proposals also would require
heightened disclosure by brokers about how client collateral is
held at custodial banks such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  State
Street Corp. (STT)  and  Bank of New York Mellon  Corp. Standards for
auditors of brokerages would also be increased under the rule.  Daily Reports  Futures brokerages should provide the public access to
daily reports on the segregation of customer funds, reports on
their balance sheet leverage, and other information, said
William Thum, principal at  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based
Vanguard Group Inc. “The information can’t be withheld
altogether or be withheld long after it is valuable,” Thum said
at the meeting.  The reports should provide more frequent information about
the leverage of brokers, said James Koutoulas, chief executive
officer of Typhon Capital Management LLC and president of the
Commodity Customer Coalition that has advocated for stronger
protections following MF Global. “Any sophisticated investor
can look at monthly numbers and get somewhat of an idea but you
really need to look at an intra-month basis,” Koutoulas said.  Prison Sentence  Russell Wasendorf Sr., founder of now-bankrupt Peregrine,
as sentenced on Jan. 31 to 50 years in prison for what
prosecutors said was the theft of more than $215 million from
the commodities firm’s customers.  James W. Giddens, the trustee overseeing the bankruptcy of
the brokerage subsidiary of MF Global, has been working to
narrow the shortfall in customer funds.  MF Global Inc., the U.S. brokerage subsidiary, won approval
from a bankruptcy judge on Jan. 31 for a settlement with U.K.
affiliate MF Global UK Ltd. Including a settlement with the
broker’s parent,  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , domestic futures
customers can expect a 93 percent recovery of funds, Giddens
said in a court filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  