-- Fed’s Duke Says Stronger Housing Market to Spur Growth
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-02-05T15:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/fed-s-duke-says-stronger-housing-market-to-spur-growth.html
Federal Reserve Governor Elizabeth Duke said she’s upbeat about the outlook for the  U.S. economy  in
part because of a rebound in housing, even after growth stalled
during the fourth quarter.  “I’m actually on the optimistic side,” Duke said today in
response to audience questions during a speech in Duluth,
 Georgia . “If you look at the underlying thesis, the growth in
 consumer spending  and some of the business growth, I think there
is some momentum building, particularly in the area of
housing.”  Duke backed the Federal Open Market Committee decision last
week to continue purchasing securities at the rate of $85
billion a month. The Fed said economic growth “paused in recent
months, in large part because of weather-related disruptions and
other transitory factors,” while “the housing sector has shown
further improvement.”  The FOMC announced its decision on Jan. 30, the same day
the Commerce Department said gross domestic product shrank at an
annual rate of 0.1 percent during the fourth quarter as a plunge
in defense spending swamped gains for consumers and businesses.
Fed policy makers expect growth of 2.3 percent to 3 percent this
year, according to their forecasts in December.  The housing rebound will help ensure the lapse in growth
proves to be temporary, Duke, a former community banker, said
today.  “We are seeing steady increases in  house prices ,” she
said. “We are seeing improvements in new residential
construction and also in household formation, which is the
demand for houses.”  Consumer Confidence  “The question really is how much of that momentum in
housing, which I expect to continue, will spill over into better
 consumer confidence , better business confidence,” she said.  Policy makers have pushed the  benchmark interest rate  close
to zero and expanded Fed assets to more than $3 trillion to spur
the expansion and reduce unemployment. The moves have helped
reduce  mortgage rates  to record lows, boosting demand for homes.  Housing has helped lead the economy out of every recession
since 1950 except for the last one in 2007 to 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Homebuilding climbed 12 percent in 2012, the first annual
increase since 2005. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property
values in 20 U.S. cities increased 5.5 percent in the year
through November, the biggest gain since August 2006, according
to data released on Jan. 29.  As the expansion gains strength, community banks are poised
to benefit from stronger loan demand and an eventual rise in
interest rates, Duke said in her speech.  Interest Income  Reduced interest income and weak loan demand are
“consequences of a sluggish economy,” Duke said. “As the
economic recovery gains momentum, however, both of these
conditions should reverse and give bankers the opportunity to
deploy the liquidity and capital they have amassed to the
benefit of their shareholders and their local economies.”  Duke, 60, was a director at the Richmond Fed from 1998 to
2000. She was appointed a Fed governor by President  George W. Bush  and took office in August 2008.  Before joining the Fed board, Duke was senior executive
vice president and chief operating officer at, Portsmouth,
Virginia-based TowneBank. She also served as the first female
chairman of the  American Bankers Association .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  