-- Fed’s Duke Says Small Banks Poised for Rise in Profits
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-02-05T13:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/fed-s-duke-says-small-banks-poised-for-rise-in-profits.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Elizabeth Duke  said U.S. community banks are poised to benefit from
stronger loan demand and an eventual rise in  interest rates  as
the U.S. expansion gains strength.  Reduced interest income and weak loan demand are
“consequences of a sluggish economy,” Duke said today in the
text of remarks for a speech in Duluth,  Georgia . “As the
economic recovery gains momentum, however, both of these
conditions should reverse and give bankers the opportunity to
deploy the liquidity and capital they have amassed to the
benefit of their shareholders and their local economies.”  U.S. banks expect  credit quality  to rise in 2013 after they
eased standards on loans for autos and businesses of all sizes,
according to a Fed survey released yesterday. Delinquency rates
will probably fall this year for business loans, commercial real
estate loans and residential mortgages, the surveyed banks said.  Banking industry profits are the highest in six years, with
57.5 percent of banks reporting gains on earnings, the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. said Dec. 4 in a quarterly report. The
number of lenders on the FDIC’s confidential list of so-called
problem banks -- those deemed to be at greater risk of collapse
-- fell to 694, the smallest number since a peak after the 2008
financial crisis.  “Credit metrics are now improving in most banks as problem
loans have been addressed and resolved and new credit
underwriting has been quite restrictive for a number of years,”
Duke, a former community banker, said to the Southeastern Bank
Management and Directors Conference.  Growth Stalled  Duke didn’t comment on monetary policy in her prepared
remarks. She supported the Federal Open Market Committee
decision last week to continue buying $85 billion in bonds each
month after economic growth stalled last quarter. Policy makers
have pushed the benchmark interest rate close to zero and the
Fed balance sheet to more than $3 trillion to spur the expansion
and reduce unemployment.  The Fed official said she disagreed with community bankers
who say small banks may not survive and who see their best
options as retirement or sale of banks. Regulators are working
to address burdens put on small banks facing “a tsunami of new
regulations,” she said.  Duke, 60, was a director at the Richmond Fed from 1998 to
2000. She was appointed a Fed governor by President  George W. Bush  and took office in August 2008.  Before joining the Fed board, Duke was senior executive
vice president and chief operating officer at TowneBank, a
Virginia-based community bank. She also served as the first
female chairman of the  American Bankers Association .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  