-- Feral Cats Inspire Architects’ Shelters for N.Y. Jungle
-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 2013-02-05T17:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/feral-cats-inspire-architects-shelters-for-n-y-jungle.html
In one corner sat a house built with
300 used aluminum cat-food cans, each stuffed with insulation.
Another was made from discarded foam panels, wood and other
found materials. It looked like Swiss cheese but accommodated as
many as three cats.  These were some of the entrants in the “ Architects for
Animals: Giving Shelter ” contest, held in  Manhattan . Leslie
Farrell, who works for Francis Cauffman Architects, founded the
contest three years ago to raise awareness and funds for the
half million or so cats that live outdoors in  New York  City’s
five boroughs.  “No animal should have to live on the streets,” Farrell
said. “They need food, shelter, medical care.”  The contest offers no prize. Farrell said the winner gets
“bragging rights” and gratitude. “I’m thankful for the
architects who give up their time to do this,” she said.  Zimmerman Workshop  built its entry out of a cooler wrapped
in sheet moss held together with chicken wire. It was designed
to blend in with the garden environment where it will be placed.
 M Moser Associates’  Cat Coop is a series of elevated pods of
birch plywood, insulated with compressed foam and carpet.  A video camera will air a live feed of the eventual feline
inhabitants, for researchers and general-public voyeurs.  All of the projects will find a place somewhere in  New York
City ’s gardens, parks or backyards.  Working with caretakers for feral-cat colonies -- yes,
there are such people -- the architects came up with designs for
practicality, aesthetics and not least of all cat-friendliness.  Rescue Group  “I grew up with animals and really value them,” Farrell
said. She became more aware of urban feral cats after moving to
an upper Manhattan neighborhood. She discovered the nonprofit
 Mayor’s Alliance for NYC’s Animals , a rescue group that can help
and advise people on living with feral cats humanely.  No one seems to know how many feral cats roam the parks and
gardens in New York City. The Mayor’s Alliance says the number
of “community cats,” a population that includes feral as well
as domesticated abandoned felines, is somewhere between 500,000
and 1 million.  “They are adept at hiding and they are adept at
reproducing,” said alliance president Jane Hoffman, adding that
two cats can produce 62 cats in just two years.  To keep the feline population from overrunning the city,
the alliance’s  Feral Cat Initiative  helps  New Yorkers  with
programs to trap, neuter or spay outdoor cats, then return them
outdoors. Cats are also vaccinated for rabies and are “ear-
tipped,” in which the left ear is painlessly trimmed so that
the specimen is easily identified if trapped again.  Heating Pads  The creative designs in the contest will provide some lucky
cat colonies with warm, clean homes. While the designers and
builders here are justifiably proud of their shelters, not all
will say exactly where the structures will be placed. One
handsome wooden structure equipped for electric heating pads
will end up in a private Upper West Side garden.  Another entry, from  Pilot Projects , is a simple schematic
for constructing “cat forts” out of materials found in  Central
Park , such as tree branches and discarded plastic bags. The do-
it-yourself designs are based on American Indian shelters.  Pilot Projects spokesman Scott Francisco wouldn’t tell me
exactly where the cat tepees will be placed because the Parks
Department doesn’t want to draw attention to the shelters,
fearing they might encourage less-conscientious humans to
abandon more cats.  Digital Kids  Francisco said the shelters, designed to be built by
children 10 to 13 years old, are for cats, but they also are
meant to mitigate what he called “the over-digitization of
childhood life.” He believes the younger generation is being
dulled by virtual realities rather than real ones. The cat
project is “a small opportunity to give kids a chance to break
out of that and engage in the physical world.”  The “trap, neuter, return” program is touted as an
efficient solution for urban dwellers whether they love or hate
cats. With neutered and spayed cats, there’s less fighting and
caterwauling in the backyard, and no smelly marking of
territories.  For those who don’t mind living near an outdoor cat colony
there’s an upside. “You are not going to have a vermin
problem,” Hoffman said. “There’s a reason why the ancient
Egyptians let cats live in their granaries.”  (Mike Di Paola writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and culture section of  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Jeffrey Burke on  books ,  Frederik
Balfour  on  wine .  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 