-- Fewer Die in Hospitals as Hospice, Intensive Care Use Increase
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-02-05T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/fewer-die-in-hospitals-as-hospice-intensive-care-use-increase.html
More people are dying in  hospice care 
rather than in the hospital, though the shift hasn’t led to less
aggressive treatment or lower costs as patients spend additional
time in intensive care units in the last month of life.  Hospice care  among the elderly doubled to about 40 percent
in the past decade, according to a study in the  Journal of the
American Medical Association . For many, the transition to
hospice came only in the final few days of life, often after
time in the intensive care unit and multiple hospitalizations.  Hospice  care programs treat pain and discomfort of dying
patients whose underlying disease can’t be cured. The programs
often enable patients to die at home and are far less costly
than hospital care. Joan Teno, a doctor who focuses on  end-of-
life care  and one of the study’s authors, said she is troubled
that terminally ill patients aren’t admitted sooner to hospice,
where they can benefit from supportive care, instead of first
going through lengthy intensive care unit and hospital stays.  “Hospice is now just an add-on to an aggressive pattern of
care where they go from hospitalization, to the ICU to hospice
in the last days of life,” said Teno, a professor of  health
services , policy and practice at  Brown University  in Providence,
 Rhode Island . “This isn’t going to change our health-care
spending or improve quality of care at the end of life.”  In 2009, 42 percent of elderly patients died in hospice
care, either in their home or in a facility, an increase from 22
percent in 2000, the study found. About 59 percent of cancer
patients and 48 percent of dementia patients were enrolled in
hospice at the time of death, the researchers said.  Meanwhile, deaths in the hospital dropped to 25 percent in
2009 from 33 percent in 2000, the study found.  Final Days  Still, thousands of those patients weren’t put into hospice
care until the final days or hours of their life, which may have
put added stress on patients and families and given them little
chance to benefit, said Mary Tinetti, a professor of medicine at
 Yale University  in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , who wrote an
editorial accompanying the article. About 14 percent of patients
moved into hospice during the last three days of life, compared
with 10 percent in 2000, the study said. Among those, 40 percent
previously had been in a hospital.  “The idea was that people would be getting into hospice
for long enough to really benefit from the focus on comfort and
spirituality and getting ready for the end of life,” said
Tinetti, who focuses on elderly patients and end-of-life care.
“Although more people are going to hospice, which is a good
thing, it is pegged on the last few days of life, probably not
long enough to benefit.”  More Care  In some cases, doctors may not be taking the extra time to
talk to patients about hospice and end of life care, Teno said.  “We have created a system where all the financial rewards
are more care, more ICU,” Teno said. “We pay for an ICU day,
we don’t pay doctors to talk to dying patients about hospice and
doctors to talk about goals of care.”  Patients were also receiving more aggressive care at the
end of life, with the proportion sent to the intensive care unit
a month before their death rising to 29 percent in 2009 from 24
percent in 2000.  The study looked at medical records for more than 800,000
people enrolled in Medicare who died between 2000 and 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  