-- Fidelity Said to Push Endo Health to Consider a Sale
-- B y   S a s h a   D a m o u n i ,   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-02-05T21:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/fidelity-said-to-press-endo-health-to-consider-selling-itself.html
Endo Health Solutions Inc. (ENDP) ’s largest
shareholder,  Fidelity Investments , is pushing the drugmaker to
consider a sale after disappointing forecasts, three people with
knowledge of the situation said.  Endo isn’t running a sale process and has so far focused
instead on finding a replacement for Chief Executive Officer
David Holveck, said one of the people. In December, Holveck
revealed plans to retire this year, departing after Endo
announced that 2013 revenue would probably fall short of earlier
projections.  Fidelity is the top investor in Endo, with more than 12
percent of the stock at the end of last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Boston-based firm met with the board
several times last year and pressed the maker of the painkiller
Lidoderm to replace Holveck, said one of the people, who asked
not to be named because the talks were private.  Fidelity, frustrated by earnings and revenue misses at
Endo, has urged the board to explore a sale during its CEO
search, said one of the people. Fidelity contacted potential
buyers such as  Warner Chilcott Plc (WCRX)  to gauge their interest in
acquiring Endo, said another person.  Warner Chilcott  is using
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to advise on the matter, said another
person.  Representatives at Endo, Fidelity and Goldman Sachs
declined to comment. Rochelle Fuhrmann, a spokeswoman for Warner
Chilcott, didn’t return a call and an e-mail seeking comment.  Stock Performance  Endo shares fell  24 percent  last year, the drugmaker’s
worst annual slide in a decade, as the company prepared for
generic competition in September to Lidoderm, its biggest
seller.  On Dec. 13, Endo said annual earnings would be at or below
the low end of its forecast of $5 a share to $5.10 a share, and
that it “no longer expects to achieve” revenue this year of $3
billion to $3.2 billion. Endo forecast last month that its 2013
sales would be $2.8 billion to $2.95 billion. The company is
likely to report full-year results this month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Endo shares gained the most in more than four years on Jan.
30 after Reuters said the drugmaker may seek a sale. The stock
rose less than 1 percent to $30.87 at the close in  New York ,
giving the company a market value of $3.52 billion.  Warner Chilcott attempted to sell itself last year with the
help of Goldman Sachs, although preliminary talks with potential
buyers didn’t pan out. Fidelity also owns a stake in Dublin-
based Warner Chilcott.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Sasha Damouni in New York at 
 sdamouni2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  