-- Financial Stability Board Says South Africa Plan Boosts System
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-02-05T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/financial-stability-board-says-south-africa-plan-boosts-system.html
South Africa, which has five bodies
overseeing its financial markets, will boost the system’s
stability and resilience by introducing the so-called twin-peaks
model of regulation, the  Financial Stability Board  said.  Pravin Gordhan, South Africa’s finance minister, issued a
policy document on twin peaks regulation in 2011. A twin-peaks
system refers to splitting rule-making and enforcement duties
into separate divisions. Dividing prudential oversight from
market conduct is necessary to protect banks from pursuing risky
short-term behavior, Gordhan said last year.  “The shift to a twin-peaks model provides a good
opportunity for South Africa to streamline responsibilities and
elevate the importance of market conduct regulation,” the
Basel-based organization said. “The twin-peaks model will also
help to improve oversight of financial conglomerates,” it said.  The Financial Stability Board suggested South Africa
incorporate its national credit regulator in its new structures
and shift legal authority for the regulation of public
companies’ disclosure to the Financial Services Board from the
Department of Trade and Industry. It also suggested establishing
a Council of Financial Regulators with broad membership; and
give the Financial Services Board the ability to levy fines in
the over-the-counter derivatives market.  “There is scope for additional cooperation between the
South African Reserve Bank and the Financial Services Board with
the National Credit Regulator,” the Financial Stability Board
said in a statement. While the country’s regulation of over-the-
counter derivatives markets has also shown progress, “many
details of the reforms are not yet resolved,” the board said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  