-- First American Anarchist Sought Freedom Through Retail
-- B y   T h a i   J o n e s
-- 2013-02-05T17:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/first-american-anarchist-sought-freedom-through-retail.html
Americans in the early republic
struggled to adjust as traditional relations of exchange and
autonomy were transformed by new realities of markets, wages and
growing inequality.  For each citizen who thrived in these conditions there were
many more who failed to adjust. Everyone responded differently.
But few rose to the moment as brilliantly, or as
idiosyncratically, as Josiah Warren.  Capitalism unconstrained showed itself in the boomtown of
Cincinnati during the 1820s. Its population tripled to almost
30,000; steamboats and canals linked the raw resources of  Ohio 
to northeastern cities, and a thriving meatpacking industry
inspired the community’s nickname: “Porkopolis.”  On May 18, 1827, a new kind of mercantile establishment
opened its doors, one run on revolutionary principles.  It was called the Time Store, and it stood at the corner of
Fifth and Elm streets. A casual visitor would have noted little
to differentiate it from any other shop in the city -- except,
perhaps, for a peculiar clock with an extra dial hung
conspicuously on the wall. But for the proprietor, Josiah
Warren, and his acolytes, the business was nothing less than the
manifestation of a philosophy “thoroughly responsive to every
demand of exalted human aspiration after Social Order and
Freedom and Harmony.”  ‘Peaceful Revolutionist’  An “inventive genius, a social philosopher, and a peaceful
revolutionist,” Warren is considered by historians to have been
the nation’s first anarchist. John Stuart Mill credited him with
important breakthroughs in social theory and referred to him in
his autobiography as “a remarkable American. Warren’s hands-on
individualism combined the questing temper of a social reformer
with a pioneer’s do-it-yourself gumption.  Born in  Boston  around 1798 to a family that had been
prominent in the American Revolution, Warren moved as a young
man to the frontier to pursue his fortune. When he arrived in
Cincinnati, the settlement “was quite on the verge of
civilization, with the vast unknown beyond.”  In 1821, he patented a lamp that burned lard (a byproduct
readily available from local meatpackers), and was soon
operating a factory to produce it. Warren was now one of the
city’s largest real-estate owners, and en route to becoming a
notable capitalist.  Then, in 1824, he heard a lecture by Robert Owen, a
proponent of socialism and communal living. As a born tinkerer,
Warren was spellbound by the vision of experimenting with
society itself, and he dedicated himself to reform. When Owen
established the utopian community of New Harmony, in  Indiana ,
Warren was one of almost 1,000 colonists who rushed to
participate. But the kind of majority rule he experienced there
felt more like tyranny than liberation.  “Man seeks freedom,” Warren decreed, “as the magnet seeks
the pole or water its level, and society can have no peace until
every member is really free.” The 29-year-old returned to
Cincinnati with a new project in mind.  Warren intended the Time Store to serve as a practical
model of his ideal of “equitable commerce” -- the goal of which
was the satisfaction of needs instead of accumulation of
profits. Rather than imposing large markups on the goods for
sale, he charged a small fee for shipping and then tallied his
commission using a scheme of his own devising. The exact moment
when a customer entered was noted on the store’s large clock.
Warren calculated the amount of time he spent helping each of
his patrons, and then he billed them in “labor notes”
representing an equivalent amount in their own industry.  “The merchant used the simplest kind of currency,” the
magazine Youth’s Companion explained. “He exchanged his labor
for that of his customers. There were no profits in the ordinary
sense of the term.”  Curiosity Grows  After a week, Warren had earned less than $5 in bills and
notes combined. But then customers began to realize the benefits
of his system. Soon the receipts piled up:  “Due to Josiah Warren, on demand, two hours in blacksmith
work. (Signed) Richard Harris.”  “Due to Josiah Warren, on demand, twenty minutes in
needlework. (Signed) Amanda Bennett.”  Emblazoned with the motto, “Cost, Not Value, The Limit of
Price,” the labor notes could be endorsed and circulated just
like any other form of currency.  Since time was money for Warren’s customers, there was none
of the usual haggling. Farmers were wont to race breathlessly
into the premises, grab their necessary wares, call out, “I-
want-a-barrel-of-your-mackerel-here-is-the-money-and-there-is-a-
cent-for-your-time-you-need-not-come-out-I-know-where-they-are-
good-bye,” and depart.  Rival merchants at first tried to put him out of business,
but some ended up adopting his scheme. Popular curiosity led
Warren to host lectures on his theories on Sunday evenings. “You
and I may not live to see it,” a prominent wholesaler told
Warren, “but the time will come when all the business of the
world will be conducted on these principles.”  After two years, Warren settled accounts and closed his
store. He considered the business to have been a success and was
ready to move on to other ventures (including founding his own
utopian colony,  Modern Times , on  Long Island ). The end of the
experiment found him “financially in the same position as at the
beginning, but morally more than ever convinced of the beauties
of Equity and the need of its realization.” Without Warren’s
influence and inspiration the other merchants who had tried his
methods soon returned to their profit-seeking ways.  But the success of the Time Store proved to Warren and his
contemporaries that equitable commerce could thrive in the U.S.
In the process, Warren launched a homegrown radical tradition --
one that valued personal freedom as the highest social goal --
that would last long after his death.  ( Thai Jones  is an assistant professor of history at the
Bard College Master of Arts in Teaching Program. His most recent
book is “More Powerful Than Dynamite: Radicals, Plutocrats,
Progressives, and  New York ’s Year of Anarchy.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Thai Jones at
 tjones@bard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 