-- France May Take Stake in Petit-Couronne Refinery, Minister Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-02-05T10:52:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/france-may-take-stake-in-petit-couronne-refinery-minister-says.html
The French government could take a
minority stake in Petroplus Holding AG’s Petit-Couronne oil
refinery in Normandy, Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  said
in a radio interview.  “We are expecting several bids to take over the Petit-
Couronne site,” Montebourg said today on RTL Radio. “It’s a
refinery that is losing money so the investor would have do so
with the state because we are available” for a partnership.  A deadline set by a Rouen court runs out at 5 p.m. local
time for bidders to come forward with plans to take over the
154,000-barrel-a-day refinery. The facility went into
administration after Petroplus filed for insolvency in January
2012, the fourth French plant to be suspended in about two years
as European refining profits dwindled.  French unions have fought to keep the plant running even as
the country’s oil industry lobby, Union Francaise des Industries
Petrolieres, hasn’t stepped in to defend the plant, which
employs about 470 workers. The group represents Total SA, Exxon
Mobil Corp. and other companies that operate plants in  France .  “The government has made jobs a priority, we’re going to
hold them to it,” Yvon Scornet, a union representative, said in
a statement.  “To take over a refinery of this size one needs two
things, lots of money and oil,” Montebourg said today. “It’s
in the interest” of producer countries like  Libya  who want
European market share to have refineries close to distribution.  Government Help  The government’s role would be one of a “minority”
investor to help provide the “large amount” of capital needed
to make the refinery profitable, he said.  “We would prefer to
maintain our refining capacity rather than have to rely on
imports.”  The Rouen court last year rejected offers from Netoil Inc.
and Alafandi Petroleum Group. Montebourg petitioned the court to
delay a ruling on the site’s future as he sought time to examine
Libyan interest, which he said today was always a “serious”
possibility.  Petit-Couronne operated for about six months last year
under a so-called tolling deal with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   Another former Petroplus plant, in Coryton,  England ,
permanently closed last summer and will be turned into a storage
site. The U.K. government didn’t offer to pay to keep that plant
running, to the chagrin of the local union. Closing down some
refineries should help profit margins for the remaining plants
in  Europe , according to energy analysts at Barclays Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  