-- HFT Revenue to Increase as Volume Rebounds, Tabb Predicts
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-02-05T19:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/hft-revenue-to-increase-as-volume-rebounds-tabb-predicts.html
Revenue from high-frequency  stock
trading  may increase by about 22 percent to $2.2 billion in 2013
as  volume  in U.S. equity markets rebounds following a three-year
slump, according to Tabb Group LLC.  Trading volume may increase by 6 percent this year after
declining from 2010 to 2012,  Adam Sussman , director of research
at Tabb, predicted in the report. High-frequency trading revenue
reached $7.2 billion at its peak in 2009 before declining to
$1.8 billion in 2012, the report said.  “While this is an improvement from last year, the strategy
in U.S. equities will not return to its heydays,” he wrote.  High-frequency trading involves using computer strategies
to make rapid buy and sell orders, sometimes amounting to
thousands of transactions per second. HFT may represent 52
percent of American equity trading this year, an increase of 1
percentage point, because of “better trading opportunities,”
Sussman wrote.  A daily average of about 6.4 billion shares changed hands
in the U.S. last year compared with almost 9.8 billion in 2009,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume will increase this year because stocks have
offered better returns than bonds, the U.S. economy has
stabilized and lawmakers have avoided the so-called fiscal cliff
of automatic tax increases and spending cuts, the report states.  Fund managers may make bigger bets on fewer companies,
Sussman wrote, citing recent trades in  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Herbalife
Ltd. (HLF)  as examples. Trading of Dell has surged since the company
began talks to go private, while Herbalife’s volume jumped as
hedge-fund managers  Bill Ackman ,  Carl Icahn  and  Daniel Loeb 
tussled publicly over whether the company is a pyramid scheme.  “There is a strong possibility that the market will
encounter periods of medium-term volatility that will boost
short-term volumes,”  Sussman wrote. “At the same time,
investors will decide to pour money back into the market. The
combination of all these factors points to a relatively good
year for the U.S. equities business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  