-- Gandur’s AOG Invests $400 Million in Africa Energy Assets
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-02-05T08:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/gandur-s-aog-invests-400-million-in-africa-energy-assets.html
Addax & Oryx Group Ltd., the energy
firm established in 1987 by billionaire Jean Claude Gandur, is
investing $400 million in Africa after failing to sell oil-
trading and downstream units last year.  The Malta-based company, which has offices in Geneva, is
investing the money over five to six years in downstream energy
infrastructure and networks, to refocus the business away from a
Swiss oil trading unit dwarfed by competitors, Gandur said.  “Either you belong to the three or four very large trading
companies and you concentrate on your trading activity, or you
better find a new model, and that’s what I’m developing today,”
he said in a phone interview from Geneva yesterday. “It’s more
downstream than trading.”  Gandur worked in the Zug, Switzerland, office of Philipp
Brothers before setting up a Geneva oil-trading firm named after
two types of African antelope, the addax and oryx. The largest
independent energy traders, including  Glencore International
Plc (GLEN) , Vitol Group and Trafigura Beheer BV, all have offices in
Switzerland.  AOG is investing in liquefied petroleum gas networks in
Africa to add to four terminals, two lubricants factories and
fuel stations across 22 countries, according to Gandur. He
expects the LPG market to grow 12 percent to 15 percent a year
in Tanzania and 10 percent to 15 percent a year in Ivory Coast.
The fuel reduces societies’ dependency on charcoal and restricts
deforestation, he said.  No Sale  AOG, which also has businesses in upstream energy and real
estate, said in May it wouldn’t pursue the sale of its Geneva
trading unit and African downstream oil and gas unit after the
expiration of an exclusivity agreement with Emerging Capital
Partners, a Washington-based investment firm focused on Africa.  Gandur, who lives in London and has a personal fortune of
about $2 billion, according to Forbes, said he terminated the
process because the buyer was too slow to complete the deal. AOG
is closely held and doesn’t provide detailed information on the
size of its energy businesses.  After selling Addax Petroleum Corp., an exploration and
production unit, to China’s Sinopec Group for C$8.3 billion
($8.3 billion) in 2009, AOG plans to sell shares to the public
in another upstream business, Oryx Petroleum, on the Toronto
stock exchange this year, Gandur said. It’s hired RBC Capital
Markets to advise on the process.  AOG has spent $450 million on real estate in cities
including Geneva, London and New York and  plans to invest 
another $300 million, Gandur said. The commercial property and
retail acquisitions are long-term investments to provide an
income for philanthropic activities, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  