-- Gasoline at U.S. Pumps Jumps Most in Two Years on Crude Rally
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-02-05T02:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/gasoline-at-u-s-pumps-jumps-most-in-two-years-on-crude-rally.html
Retail gasoline prices in the U.S.
rose by the most since February 2011, tracking crude futures
that last week capped the longest stretch of weekly advances in
more than eight years.  Regular gasoline in the U.S. jumped 18 cents, or 5.4
percent, from a week earlier to $3.538 a gallon yesterday, the
biggest gain since Feb. 28, 2011, according to data compiled by
the Energy Information Administration, an Energy Department
agency. Crude futures have risen more than $10 a barrel since
mid-December and have gained eight weeks in a row, matching a
streak that ended in August 2004.  Gasoline is mostly “up due to what crude has done,”  David Hackett , the president of energy consultant Stillwater
Associates, said by telephone from  Irvine , California,
yesterday. “The rest of it is because of all of the refinery
work going on.”  Prices at the pump  have increased seven straight weeks as
the rally in crude prices led refiners to boost costs for fuel
marketers. U.S. Midwest refineries operated by  PBF Energy Inc. (PBF) 
and  Phillips 66 (PSX)  were also struck by fires last month, and fuel
producers such as  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  have cut production
at plants to perform seasonal maintenance.  Gasoline supplies in the U.S. fell a second week in the
seven days ended Jan. 25, dropping 956,000 barrels to 232.3
million, the EIA said Jan. 30. They probably rose 1.8 million
barrels, or 0.8 percent, to 234.1 million in the week ended Feb.
1, according to the median of seven analyst estimates before the
agency’s next report tomorrow.  Gasoline Consumption  U.S. gasoline  consumption  was unchanged at 8.32 million
barrels a day in the four weeks ended Jan. 25, the EIA said.  Retail gasoline prices rose yesterday in every region of
the U.S. The Midwest saw the biggest gain, increasing 22 cents
to $3.513 a gallon.  PBF’s Toledo refinery in  Ohio  shut a fluid catalytic
cracker, which produces gasoline, after a fire erupted there
Jan. 30. Some units at the plant are running at reduced rates
and others are on “standby,” a state in which they’re
operating and not producing, the Parsippany, New Jersey-based
company said in a statement a day after the blaze.  Phillips 66 also shut a crude unit at the Wood River
refinery in  Illinois  on Jan. 12 after an electrical fire. The
equipment was restarted two days later.  Retail prices will continue to rise this month as
refineries halt production for seasonal maintenance, AAA said in
a statement on its website Jan. 31.  Regular gasoline on the U.S. West Coast gained 19 cents
yesterday to $3.738 a gallon, according to the EIA. BP,  Tesoro
Corp. (TSO) , Chevron and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  have all shut production
units at their refineries in Southern California for planned
maintenance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  