-- Genworth Profit Rises 17% as McInerney Takes Over as CEO
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-02-05T22:27:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/genworth-reports-166-million-profit-as-mcinerney-takes-helm.html
Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the seller
of life insurance and long-term care coverage, said fourth-
quarter profit increased 17 percent in the first earnings report
under Chief Executive Officer  Thomas McInerney .  Net income  rose to $166 million, or 34 cents a share, from
$142 million, or 29 cents, a year earlier, the Richmond,
Virginia-based company said today in a statement. Operating
profit, which excludes some investing results, was 34 cents a
share, beating the 27-cent  average estimate  of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  McInerney, who became CEO on Jan. 1, faces long-term care
policies that have proven more costly than Genworth had forecast
and a U.S. mortgage-insurance unit that has lost money as claims
surged after the housing market collapsed. The parent announced
plans last month to protect bond holders by isolating the
unprofitable business.  “The company’s share price had been suppressed by
persistent concerns that the U.S. mortgage-insurance unit could
create a contagion effect,”  Mark Palmer , an analyst at BTIG
LLC, said before results were announced.  McInerney’s hiring
“indicates that Genworth is going to focus intently on
improving its life-insurance operations.”  Genworth fell 2.4 percent to $8.95 in extended trading at
4:57 p.m. in New York. The  shares  surged 22 percent this year
through the end of regular trading, the second-best performance
in the 81-company  Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index. (S5FINL)   Klein, Fraizer  A change in Canadian mortgage-insurance rules added $78
million to fourth-quarter results, according to the statement.
The benefit comes from the reversal of an accrued liability tied
to government-guarantee fees.  The U.S. mortgage-insurance unit’s operating loss narrowed
to $34 million from $96 million a year earlier, as rising home
prices helped cushion losses at the business. Profit at the
long-term care segment narrowed to $7 million from $28 million.  “U.S. mortgage insurance continued its recovery in the
fourth quarter, and the company achieved a number of its
strategic goals to improve financial flexibility,” McInerney
said in the statement. “However, results in the U.S.  Life
Insurance  Division were mixed, and I am disappointed in our
long-term care results.”  Boosting Premiums  Genworth has said it’s boosting premiums for some long-term
care customers, as  low interest rates  and higher costs weigh on
earnings. Competitors including New York-based MetLife Inc. and
Prudential Financial Inc., based in  Newark ,  New Jersey , have
retreated from the coverage.  McInerney, formerly an executive at Amsterdam-based ING
Groep NV, was named CEO Dec. 11. Chief Financial Officer Marty Klein had been serving in the role since Michael Fraizer stepped
down May 1 after delaying an initial public offering for
Genworth’s Australia mortgage-guaranty unit.  The Australian mortgage-guaranty unit’s profit climbed 15
percent to $62 million in the fourth quarter. Klein said in
October that a partial sale of the unit probably won’t occur
until late 2013.  Genworth’s full-year profit rose to $323 million from $49
million in 2011. With today’s results, the insurer has reported
six straight  profitable quarters .  Book value, a measure of  assets  minus liabilities, rose to
$33.62 a share on Dec. 31 from $33.40 on Sept. 30. Holding-
company cash was about $1 billion at the end of 2012, compared
with about $1.4 billion three months earlier, as the insurer
made tax-related payments to operating units.  Klein said in October that Genworth was readying its
international-protection and wealth-management businesses for
potential sales as part of a strategic review. The firm is
focusing on life, long-term care and mortgage insurance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  