-- German-Listed Companies Should Cap Executive Pay: Panel
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-02-05T15:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/german-listed-companies-should-cap-executive-pay-panel.html
German-listed companies should limit
pay and bonuses for top executives, according to a panel set up
by the government in 2001 to promote transparency for investors.  “The recommendations are primarily intended to increase
transparency and to make the information already available today
easier to compare, without impacting on the systems of
management-board remuneration,” the Corporate Governance Code
Commission said in a  statement  today on how its  rules  for
corporations should be amended.  When defining compensation structures, supervisory boards
should take into account the relationship between what executive
board members and senior managers make, as well as the pay of
the company’s staff, the commission said. The panel didn’t say
it would set a limit on what executive should be allowed to
earn, leaving that to company boards.  Disputes in  Germany  over whether there should be a limit on
what executives earn heated up when  Martin Winterkorn ,
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s chief executive officer, had his 2011
compensation set at 17.5 million euros ($23.7 million), an 87
percent increase from the year before. Including his 11 million-
euro bonus, he was the best-paid CEO among DAX Index companies.  The panel also proposed amending rules to say an
extraordinary shareholder meeting should be called if a company
becomes the target of an acquisition bid. Corporations are
required under German law to disclose any deviation from the
corporate-governance code.  The panel -- with members including Commerzbank AG Chairman
Klaus-Peter Mueller, Clifford Chance LLP partner Daniela Weber- Rey and economics professor Beatrice Weder di Mauro -- will take
comments to today’s proposals until mid-March and deliberate on
how to change the current code at a meeting in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 