-- Germany Won’t Block Cyprus Aid If Conditions Are Met
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-02-05T23:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/germany-won-t-block-cyprus-aid-if-conditions-met-kampeter-says.html
Germany won’t stand in the way of aid
for Cyprus so long as the Mediterranean nation fulfills the
criteria to qualify for help from Europe’s bailout fund, Deputy
Finance Minister  Steffen Kampeter  said.  Outstanding questions still need to be addressed including
Cyprus’s systemic relevance to the euro area, the future size of
the country’s banking industry, tax policy and how the Cypriot
authorities deal with money “which perhaps isn’t legally sent
in” to the island, Kampeter said in an interview in Berlin.  “If the answers are given in a proper way and are
impressing our parliament, I don’t see any objections” to a
program for Cyprus in the lower house, Kampeter said yesterday.  Kampeter’s comments are the strongest signal yet that
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government won’t risk the market
turmoil that could result from any rejection of help for euro
member Cyprus.  European stocks  dropped the most since Oct.
23 on Feb. 4 amid concerns that the debt crisis in the 17-nation
euro region might reignite. Germany is Europe’s largest economy
and the biggest contributor to euro-area bailouts.  Members of Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union as well as
the main opposition Social Democrats have questioned the need to
help Cyprus, which represents about 0.15 percent of euro-area
gross domestic product. European Central Bank Executive Board
member  Joerg Asmussen  said Jan. 27 that governments have to
realize Cyprus has the potential to cause damage beyond the size
of its economy.  ‘Common Understanding’  Merkel’s coalition and the opposition have a “common
understanding” that Cyprus still has to provide information to
satisfy the conditions for any bailout, Kampeter said.  “I don’t see anybody in the German parliament who has
given a final ‘no’ to the Cyprus call for a program,” he said.
“What I see in the German parliament is that we want to have
delivered additional information, additional decisions, for
example on privatization, by the authorities.”  Merkel, speaking to a CDU event in Bremen late yesterday,
underscored the need for reform in some European countries amid
a “very tough” debate over the measures to be undertaken.  “I’ve always listened to those who said ‘yes, we need to
have solidarity, we belong together -- this currency is
important for us all,’” Merkel said. “But I’ve also said that
those who don’t change at home -- who don’t do their homework --
it’ll be more difficult to help them. And in the end we’ll all
be affected.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  