-- Givaudan Pledges Bumper Dividend as Annual Profits Surge
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-02-05T08:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/givaudan-pledges-bumper-dividend-as-annual-profits-surges-63-.html
Givaudan SA (GIVN) , the world’s largest
maker of flavorings and fragrances, announced a bigger-than-
estimated dividend after riding out a year of high raw-material
prices and a strong Swiss franc.  Net income rose 63 percent to 411 million francs ($451.6
million), beating the average estimate of 387.5 million francs
based on 11 analyst predictions collected by Bloomberg. Givaudan
said it plans to pay a dividend of 36 francs, beating a
Bloomberg analyst forecast of 25 francs.  “We are doing a step change in our dividend this year,”
Chief Executive Officer Gilles Andrier said in a phone
interview. “Our goal is to continue doing that in the years to
come. We want a continuous improvement.”  Andrier has paid down debt, allowing him to deliver on a
2010 promise to return more cash to shareholders. Givaudan,
which holds a quarter of the market, is aiming for sales growth
at about double the market rate even as  Europe ’s financial
difficulties weigh on demand for snacks and perfumes.  Givaudan’s shares climbed as much as 4.3 percent to 1,055
francs, the biggest intraday gain since November 2011. The
advance gives the Swiss company a market value of 9.7 billion
francs. The stock traded at 1,051 francs as of 9:37 a.m.  After finalizing costly projects, such as the roll-out of
new SAP management software last year and completing the
integration of Quest, which it acquired for about $2.3 billion
in 2006, Givaudan can now “fully concentrate” on improving
 cash flow , Andrier said.  Competitors Lagging  Sales advanced 8.6 percent to 4.26 billion francs, the
Geneva-based company said, in line with estimates. Andrier said
he believes Givaudan is growing twice as fast as Firmenich
International SA, 30 percent to 40 percent faster than  Symrise
AG (SY1) , and 20 percent faster than  International Flavors &
Fragrances Inc. (IFF)   Expectations of an increase in the dividend payout have
helped the stock rise 9 percent in the last three months,
Jaideep Pandya, an analyst at Berenberg said in a note to
clients yesterday.  The Swiss company pledged to return above 60 percent of
free cash flow to shareholders once a targeted  leverage ratio  --
defined as net debt, divided by net debt plus equity -- of 25
percent has been reached. Chief Financial Officer Matthias Waehren said Aug. 3 that the target could be reached by this
quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  