-- Glencore, Vedanta Zambia Units Face Demands for Higher Dividends
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-02-05T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/glencore-vedanta-zambia-units-face-demands-for-higher-dividends.html
Zambian subsidiaries of  Vedanta
Resources Plc (VED)  and  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  are among companies
that should pay higher dividends to minority shareholder ZCCM
Investment Holdings Plc, the state-controlled investor said.  ZCCM, 88 percent-owned by the Zambian government, also
wants to negotiate increased stakes in local mines and has yet
to start talks with companies on this, Chief Executive Officer
Mukela Muyunda said in an interview in Lusaka.  “Clearly, it is a matter that keeps coming up regarding
the level of shareholding that we should have,” Muyanda said.
“It is something that we will have to deal with at some
point.”  Zambia,  Africa ’s biggest copper producer, privatized its
 mining industry  between 1996 and 2001, maintaining minority
stakes ranging from 10 percent to 21 percent in the companies,
which it holds through ZCCM. The degree to which the country
benefits from its copper resources has become a point of
political contention, with the government accusing mining
companies of avoiding as much as $2 billion a year in tax.  ZCCM wants the companies in which it has shareholdings to
alter their dividend policies to improve transparency and
increase payouts, Muyunda said in the Jan. 31 interview. He said
dividends are the last priority for some companies, and this
“doesn’t work for us.”  Maamba Collieries  While ZCCM will focus on buying stakes of as much as 35
percent in new mining projects, such as Nava Bharat Pte Ltd.’s
Maamba Collieries, it also wants to boost ownership of existing
operations, Muyunda said. Any increase would have to come
through negotiations, he said.  Representatives of Mopani Copper Mines Plc, which is 90
percent owned by Glencore, and Eurasian Natural Resources Corp.,
which owns 90 percent of Chambishi Metals Plc, declined to
comment.  Konkola Copper Mines Plc, 79 percent owned by London-listed
Vedanta, and  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) , the majority owner of
the Kansanshi mine, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails
seeking comment.  “Government has no intention of any compulsory
acquisition, because that is going backward,” Finance Minister
Alexander Chikwanda said in an interview today.  Private shareholders own about 12 percent of ZCCM, which is
traded on the Lusaka Stock Exchange as well as the  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
Paris. The Zambian government agreed to convert about $425
million ZCCM owes it into equity through a rights issue, the
company said on Dec. 12.  “The intention is for it to happen before the end of
June,” Muyunda said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  