-- GM Said to Seek Deals in China to Reach 5 Million Goal
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-02-06T02:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/gm-said-to-seek-deals-in-china-to-reach-5-million-goal.html
The Chinese auto industry is overdue
for consolidation and  General Motors Co. , with local partner
SAIC Motor Corp., is interested in acquiring ailing automakers,
according to four people familiar with the companies’ thinking.  GM, already the top foreign carmaker in China, aims to
increase sales by about 75 percent by 2015 to  5 million , and a
deal with another automaker is one possible way its ventures can
expand, said the people, who didn’t want to be identified
because the plans are private.  China’s government wants to preserve jobs even as it
encourages consolidation that echoes the auto industry’s
contraction a century ago that made the Detroit-based carmaker
the world’s largest for eight decades.  Expanding in China isn’t as simple as going out and buying
another plant. Foreign companies face restrictions on the number
of partners they can have or how much of a factory they can own.
Last year, China said it wouldn’t give incentives for further
foreign-owned auto plants. That started raising the value of
underused auto plants, of which there are plenty: 10 of China’s
71 automakers didn’t sell a vehicle last year.  “It is much easier to get the government to sign off on
their acquisition than to approve new capacity,” said  Han Weiqi , an analyst with CSC International Holdings Ltd. in
Shanghai. “It is in line with the government’s mandate of
consolidating the industry and reducing the number of players.”  Most Overcapacity  Two calls to the media office of the National Development
and Reform Commission, China’s top economic planning body,
weren’t answered.  China has the world’s most overcapacity. Factories in China
are able to produce about 10 million more vehicles than they
currently make, according to LMC Automotive. That’s more than
the number of autos made in any country other than China or the
U.S.  GM and SAIC have plans to open two assembly plants in China
in 2014. Even then, their joint ventures may be capable of
making only about 4 million cars, sport-utility vehicles and
microvans a year. One way to stay on track with the 5 million
target set when growth was more exuberant would be by taking
over assembly plants that aren’t operating at full production.  GM has built up what it calls a fortress balance sheet with
more than $23 billion in cash that gives it flexibility to make
acquisitions.  “There are no current plans to increase GM’s manufacturing
capacity through acquisition or consolidation,” Dayna Hart, a
GM spokeswoman in China, said this week in an e-mail.  SAIC, based in Shanghai, declined to comment.  China passed the U.S. in 2009 to become the world’s largest
vehicle market and still has room to grow: While 627 in 1,000 in
the U.S. own a car and 517 in Germany, according to the World
Bank, in China, it’s only 44.  Best Month  The recovery of residential property prices in China’s
major cities has accelerated since early 2012, potentially
increasing demand for new passenger vehicles, said  Kevin Tynan ,
Bloomberg Industries automotive analyst. GM sales in China last
month soared 26 percent from a year earlier to 310,765, its best
month ever. Buick and Chevrolet sales each gained 22 percent.  GM has been the largest foreign automaker in China for the
past nine years, with about 14.7 percent of the market in 2012.
GM said it earned $1.5 billion in 2011 from its joint ventures
in China, or almost a sixth of the company’s  $9.19 billion 
profit that year. Analysts project the automaker, which emerged
from a government-financed bankruptcy in 2009, will report its
12th straight  quarterly profit  on Feb. 14.  While GM has many opportunities among Chinese automakers,
which of them is the most probable target is a complex equation
that depends on proximity to markets, ease of transportation and
incentives offered by local governments in return for the
investments, said Han, the Shanghai-based analyst.  Detroit, Chicago  Some local governments may resist investment and management
from overseas or even from another city in China.  “Consolidation does not come easily in China because the
governments, central and local, own 50 percent or more of most
of the ventures,”  Michael Dunne , head of industry researcher
Dunne & Co., said in an e-mail. “It might be a good idea for
Chicago to take over management/ownership of Detroit but getting
there is not easy, even unthinkable.”  China signaled in late 2011 that it would be less inclined
to sign off on new plants when it said foreign automakers would
only be eligible for incentives on new factories approved before
Jan. 30, 2012.  A struggling domestic manufacturer’s ability to build cars
in China “becomes an asset,” said  Matthew Stover , an analyst
with Guggenheim Securities LLC based in Boston. “You’ve got a
license, you may not be making many cars with it and your
facilities may need a lot of help. But you have a license, so
you then become an acquisition.”  Volkswagen’s Push  GM needs to remain aggressive in China. It faces increased
competition from  Volkswagen AG  as the German company aims to
become the top-selling automaker in the world by 2018. Among
non-U.S. foreign automakers, Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW has
fared best in China, almost dethroning GM as the best-selling
foreign car company in the country last year.  VW, which, unlike GM, includes Hong Kong in its China
tallies, said deliveries climbed 24.5 percent to 2.81 million
while sales of GM and its Chinese joint venture gained 11
percent to a record 2.84 million.  VW’s sales were helped by the introduction of new versions
of its Lavida and Audi A4L in the third quarter and from a
territorial dispute that fueled anti-Japan sentiment. In
September,  Toyota Motor Corp.  and Nissan Motor Co. reported the
steepest drop in sales in China since at least 2008.  Ford, Infiniti  Other foreign automakers have ambitions for China as well.
 Nissan , for example, moved the headquarters of its Infiniti
brand to Hong Kong to try to gain share in Asia. Ford, which has
been a laggard in China, says that breaking into that market is
a priority. The Dearborn, Michigan automaker, which sold 626,616
vehicles in China last year, a 21 percent gain, is seeing some
early success: Its Focus compact rose to the best-selling sedan
in China last year from 10th in 2011.  Hyundai Motor Co. and affiliate Kia Motors Corp., both
based in Seoul, also see potential in China, with their combined
sales rising 14 percent in 2012.  All of this growth comes as auto sales continue to gain, if
not at the same pace as in the past. Auto deliveries may
increase 7 percent to 20.65 million this year, the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers said in January. A
consensus is forming that sales may rise to as many as 30
million vehicles by 2020, said  Bob Socia , GM China president.  “You need to stay ahead of the curve,” he told reporters
last month in Detroit. “Are we ready to announce another plant?
No, but clearly we’re looking at what we’re going to need to
handle our expansion.”  He declined to say how GM is looking to expand beyond two
new plants planned to be completed 2014.  U.S. Consolidation  The idea of GM growing through acquisition harkens back to
GM’s origins, when founder  Billy Durant  used his company’s
coffers to gobble up rivals as the nascent U.S. industry was
consolidating. Few Americans today remember Winton Motor
Carriage Co., the  Oakland Motor Car Co.  or other automakers,
also called original equipment manufacturers (OEMS or OEs), of
the early 1900s.  China is ripe for a similar reckoning,  Wilbur Ross , the
billionaire owner of parts supplier International Automotive
Components Group, said in Detroit last month during a
presentation at the Automotive News World Congress.  “The U.S. once had 125 domestic OEs, but has devolved down
to a small handful,” Ross said. “At present, China has about
100 OEs, many of which are marginal and lack manufacturing and
distribution scale and have limited market shares.”  China’s Capacity  China, with more than 110 auto brands, has about 36 percent
of its car-making capacity unused, the equivalent of 10 million
vehicles worth of over-capacity, according to LMC Automotive.  Of the 71 automakers tracked by the China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers, 36 companies sold fewer than 10,000
vehicles in 2012.  Jilin Tongtian Automobile Co., Jiangxi Huaxiang Fuqi Motor
Co. and Liaoning Huanghai Commercial Vehicle Manufacturing Co.
are among the 10 that didn’t sell any vehicles last year,
according to association data. Han, the CSC analyst, said those
aren’t ideal acquisition targets.  Local China automakers don’t spend as much to develop new
vehicles as global automakers do, Ross said. As a result, the 41
percent of the market they divvied up last year is shrinking, he
said.  Future Unclear  While there may be agreement from industrialists such as
Ross to China’s Communist Party that automakers need to
consolidate, how such a thing would happen is wide open to
speculation, debate and innovation.  One notion is that foreign automakers would need to grow
through their local partners, which might be better able to
negotiate a fair market value for state-owned assets, said  Bill Russo , president auto industry consultancy Synergistics Inc.  “A more likely scenario will be partnerships among local
automakers to allow assets to be shared or transferred,” he
said in an e-mail. “In such a scenario, foreign OEMs might work
with their local partner to absorb under-performing assets into
their existing Chinese JV.”  Alternatively, foreign automakers may not want some local
capacity in its current form,  Jeff Schuster , an industry analyst
with LMC Automotive. An acquiring company may be able to win
approval to replace outdated factories to create jobs.  “More likely they will continue to come in and build new
capacity and much of the old will be shuttered if consolidation
takes place,” he said in an e-mail.  Partnership Acquisitions  The GM-SAIC partnership has acquired money-losing factories
in China in the past, including assets related to Daewoo Motor
Co. after GM bought a controlling stake in the bankrupt South
Korean automaker.  GM and SAIC are partnered on Wuling and its Baojun car
brand as part of a strategy to sell vehicles to an emerging
working class outside of the major cities, such as Shanghai.  Last year, GM added 700 new stores in China and expects to
open another 400 this year to have a total of 4,200 locations,
Socia, the division president, said.  GM’s five-year China plan announced in April 2011 called on
doubling its sales to about 5 million in the country from 2.35
million in 2010 and introducing 60 new or refreshed vehicles in
there within the same time period.  The announcement followed years in which GM’s China sales
increased 68 percent in 2009 and 29 percent in 2010, before the
country’s rapid economic growth slowed.  With its Chinese partners, GM has eight production centers
in China with the capacity of building 3.35 million vehicles
this year, according to researcher IHS Automotive.  More Growth  GM, which strives to build vehicles where they’re sold,
will have straight-time capacity to build as many 4 million
units in 2015 in China, according to IHS estimates. That
includes the two new factories in Wuhan and Chongqing coming
online in 2014, said the Northville, Michigan-based research
firm.  The automaker aims to outpace the market again in 2013,
Socia told reporters in Detroit.  “You have lots of people that the government wants to move
into the middle class,” he said. “You’ve got 150 cities that
are over a million in population. It’s pretty ripe for further
expansion.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  