-- Russia Hires Goldman as Corporate Broker to Boost Image
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-02-05T15:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/goldman-sachs-hired-by-russia-as-corporate-broker-to-boost-image.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (G)  has been
hired by the Russian government to burnish the nation’s image
overseas and attract more institutional investors.  The bank has signed a three-year agreement with the  Economy
Ministry  and the Russian Direct Investment Fund to advise on
issues such as communicating government decisions and setting up
meetings with investors, according to Sergei Arsenyev, Goldman
Sachs’s managing director of investment banking in Moscow.  “The pool of investors that Russia talks to is the
dedicated emerging-markets base, and it’s been difficult for
them to break out to a wider investor pool and a global base,”
Arsenyev, 41, who handles the bank’s Kremlin relations, said in
a telephone interview. “We think valuations in Russia remain
very attractive, and there are many interesting opportunities
for investors on the public and private side.”  President  Vladimir Putin  last year ordered the government
to improve Russia’s standing in the  World Bank ’s  Doing Business 
rating to 20th by 2018. It climbed eight positions to 112 in the
latest study in October. While that’s better than emerging-
market competitors India and Brazil, Russia remains the worst
among major economies in graft,  Transparency International  said
in December in its annual  Corruption Perceptions Index .  “We don’t know how to communicate with investors,” Deputy
Economy Minister Sergei Belyakov told reporters last week.  Privatization Push  The world’s largest energy exporter plans to raise a record
$10 billion from asset sales this year, First Deputy Prime
Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television last month. While corruption continues to be an
issue, it’s less so for foreign investors who have already
committed to Russia, Shuvalov said.  Goldman Sachs is one of 23 foreign and domestic banks
selected to advise Russia on its 1 trillion-ruble ($33 billion)
privatization program. Last year it helped advise OAO Sberbank,
Russia’s largest lender, on a $5.2 billion equity sale.  The agreement with the Kremlin “is similar to a corporate
broking arrangement, which every FTSE 100 company has,” said
Arsenyev, who switched to  investment banking  a year ago after 17
years in research. “It’s to make sure the market message is
crystallized. Our work is strictly limited to the investor base
and making sure the government is meeting the right people.”  Promoting Moscow  British companies typically hire corporate brokers to serve
as a liaison with investors and to help them comply with stock
market rules. The assignments, compensated with a nominal fee or
sometimes unpaid, can lead to more lucrative business such as
managing share deals and advising on mergers and acquisitions.  The deal also includes advising Russia on its bid to
transform Moscow into an international financial center and to
attract more capital, Arsenyev said. Moscow ranked 64th on the
 Global Financial Centers Index  in September, a survey compiled
by Z/Yen Group, a London-based consulting firm.  The world’s premier financial centers have succeeded
because  of “good rule of law,”  Lloyd Blankfein , Goldman Sachs
chief executive officer, said at last month’s  World Economic
Forum  in Davos, Switzerland.  “You want to go into a place that’s fair, where if you
make an investment you can recover your investment,” he said at
a panel discussion. “You can go into the U.K. and sue the U.K.
government and have a reasonable chance that a court will decide
that fairly. There are other places where I think people
implicitly know they can’t.”  Goldman’s Struggles  Blankfein, 58, who is a member of Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev ’s advisory committee for turning Moscow into a
financial center, has struggled to build a business in Russia.
The New York-based bank scaled back operations in Moscow soon
after opening an office in 1994 amid a worldwide retrenchment.
It returned in 1998, managing Russia’s sale of bonds a month
before the country defaulted on $40 billion of domestic debt.
That prompted it to withdraw almost entirely before ramping up
again in 2006.  Since the default, the bank has been overlooked by Russia
for three sovereign bond deals in 2010 and 2011 and $7 billion
in euro bonds last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Russia could borrow as much as $7 billion this year,
according to the budget. The government is prepared to wait for
companies to meet their borrowing needs to avoid crowding the
market, Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak said in a Dec.
24 interview.  Private Equity  Goldman Sachs, along with  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Singapore-
based Templeton Asset Management Ltd. signed an accord with the
Russia’s sovereign  private-equity  fund in June to invest in
Russian companies preparing for initial public offerings. The
fund is led by  Kirill Dmitriev , a former Goldman Sachs banker.  The U.S. securities firm is led in Moscow by Paolo Zannoni,
who took over last year from co-heads Chris Barter and Jean Raby. Barter left the firm to set up a private-equity group,
while Raby returned to  France  with Goldman Sachs.  Zannoni, who had been chairman of Italian investment
banking, previously worked in the former  Soviet Union  for Fiat
SpA. He had been sent to Moscow in the early 1990s by then
chairman Giovanni Agnelli to buy Russian carmaker OAO AvtoVAZ,
which was supposed to be privatized.  The Moscow Exchange’s valuations trail the biggest emerging
markets, while Russian issuers prefer to sell equities in
London. Russia’s benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  has gained 4.5 percent
this year, beating the MSCI’s  Emerging Markets  Index’s 1.1
percent advance.  Andrey Kostin, chairman of VTB Group, Russia’s second-
biggest bank, said on Nov. 15 that the country was undervalued
“because of its image of corruption and lack of necessity to
comply with law.”  Companies on the Micex Index have an average valuation of
5.9 times estimated earnings, compared with 16.6 for India’s BSE
 Sensex Index (SENSEX) , 19.9 for Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  and 13.4 for China’s
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  