-- Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman O’Neill to Retire
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-02-05T20:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/goldman-sachs-asset-management-chairman-o-neill-to-retire-1-.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  economist
 Jim O’Neill , who bound  Brazil  to Russia,  India  and China to form
the BRIC investing strategy, will retire this year.  O’Neill, 55, will step down from his current role as
chairman of the asset-management division, which he has held
since 2010, the New York-based firm said today in a  statement .
He joined the company in 1995 as a partner, became head of
global economics, commodities and strategy research in 2001 and
was added to the European management committee in 2006.  “In each of his roles at the firm, Jim has served our
clients by formulating views on global economic and market
themes and helping them to be positioned for the most
significant investment opportunities,” Chief Executive Officer
Lloyd C. Blankfein and President Gary D. Cohn wrote in the
statement.  O’Neill said in an e-mail he hadn’t decided what he’ll do
when he leaves Goldman Sachs.  Tim O’Neill and Eric Lane will continue to co-head the
asset-management division, and there are no plans to replace
O’Neill as chairman, Andrea Raphael, a Goldman Sachs
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The position was created for him
when he joined the unit, she said.  O’Neill developed the BRICs theory following the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks, after becoming Goldman Sachs’s sole chief
economist, to reflect the waning influence of the U.S. on the
world’s economy. In the years afterward, it was central to
Goldman Sachs’s economic outlook.  Manchester Fan  He is a frequent commentator for media outlets, appearing
on Bloomberg Television and CNBC. An Englishman who is the son
of a postman and graduated from Sheffield University, he has
also worked for  Bank of America Corp .  Before joining Goldman Sachs, O’Neill was head of global
research for Swiss Bank Corp., a firm he joined in 1988,
according to his  biography . That company bought S.G. Warburg &
Co., the advisory firm founded by  Siegmund Warburg , in 1995,
before joining with Union Bank of Switzerland to form UBS AG in
a deal completed in 1998.  A lifelong fan of  Manchester United , the most successful
 soccer club  in the U.K., O’Neill once sat on its board and later
was part of a group considering making a takeover bid.  O’Neill recently published a book entitled “The Growth
Map: Economic Opportunity in the BRICs and Beyond.” It updated
and expanded his theory that the BRIC nations would join the
U.S. and Japan as the world’s biggest economies by 2050.  ‘Extremely Overvalued’  So popular has the BRIC term become that its leaders now
meet for annual summits alongside  South Africa . O’Neill remained
a defender of the theory even as the economies slowed and the
membership of Russia was questioned by some because of
governance concerns.  In his current role, O’Neill publishes a regular report to
clients, combining views on the global economic outlook with
details of his travels and commentary on  Manchester United ’s
performances.  His most recent report, released Jan. 25, cited
“considerable evidence” that economies are improving around
the world and suggested the yen is “extremely overvalued.”  He told Bloomberg Television in October that he didn’t
apply to replace  Mervyn King  as the next governor of the  Bank of
England , saying he didn’t think it was “appropriate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  