-- Goldman Turns Negative on Turkish Banks as Earnings Peak Seen
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2013-02-05T12:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/goldman-turns-negative-on-turkish-banks-as-earnings-peak-seen.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. turned
negative on  Turkish bank  stocks, saying it’s concerned that
central bank tightening will hurt earnings while rising U.S.
Treasury yields lure funds away from the country.  Turkish bank earnings will probably peak this quarter “and
then decline sequentially,” Goldman Sachs analysts Dmitry Trembovolsky and Alexey Butylin said in an e-mailed report dated
yesterday.  Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS (YKBNK) , part-owned by Italy’s  UniCredit
SpA (UCG) , is most vulnerable to a retreat in its share price, the
analysts said. The Turkish  bank stock index  has gained 42
percent in the past 12 months, outperforming the 7.8 percent
gain by the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Financials  Index (MXEF0FN)  over the same
period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yapi & Kredi
shares surged 93 percent last year.  The governor of the nation’s central bank, Erdem Basci, has
said he’ll limit loan growth to 15 percent this year as he
attempts to reduce the import-driven current-account deficit.  “The bear case for Turkish banks concentrates on three
points: risks to earnings, sizable outperformance over the past
12 months and rising U.S. yields,”  Goldman Sachs (GS)  said. “As
U.S. 10-year Treasury yields have moved to 2 percent, the key
bull argument on fund flows has weakened. Repatriation of flows
into the U.S. has potential to threaten Turkish macro stability,
and could ultimately result in a much more hawkish Turkish
central-bank response.”  The value of foreign investors’ holdings of Turkish stocks
and bonds fell by more than $1 billion in the week to Jan. 25,
according to data published by the central bank on Jan. 31.
Foreign investors purchased $5.9 billion in Turkish stocks and
$17.3 billion in Turkish bonds in the year to Jan. 25, according
to the data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  