-- Good Technology-Excitor, Metallica: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-02-05T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/good-technology-excitor-metallica-intellectual-property.html
Good Technology Inc., a U.S. provider
of wireless device security technology, settled a patent-
infringement suit against Excitor A/S, a Danish company.  Excitor agreed to a cash payment and a royalty-bearing
license to the disputed patents, according to a Feb. 4 statement
from Good Technology. Specific financial terms of the settlement
weren’t disclosed.  Excitor didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment on the settlement.  Good Technology, based in Sunnyvale, California, sued
Excitor in federal court in  Manhattan  in March 2012, accusing
the Taastrup, Denmark-based company of infringing five patents
related to network security.  The case settled before a hearing was held on the reach of
the disputed patents, according to the case docket.  The case is Visto Corp. v. Excitor A/S, 1:12-cv-01698-JSR,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Apple Applies for Patent on Ad Hoc Cash-Dispensing Network  Apple Inc., (AAPL)  the maker of the iPhone and the iPad, is
seeking a patent on a technology that would enable a user to
find the nearest cash-dispensing site willing to work within the
user’s network.  According to application  20130031009 , published in the
database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Jan. 30, the
network would consist of multiplicity of sites willing to
dispense cash upon request from the user and verified by the
network.  A server checks for sites near to the user and verifies
that these sites are able to provide cash in the amount
requested. The requesting user’s account is charged for the
service and the providing user is credited for the service, with
the service fee split between the providing user and the
administrators of the cash-dispensing network.  Cupertino, California-based Apple said in the application
that even though consumers are able to use credit or debit cards
for the bulk of their transactions, situations can arise when
cash payments are necessary. The company gave the example of
some small businesses that won’t take credit cards because of
charges they must pay to the credit card companies for this
service.  The “client terminals” thare are part of this system
could typically be an iPad, iPhone or iPod, Apple said in the
application. A key element to the network is the use of a Global
Positioning System transceiver than can pinpoint the location of
the cash request and any available dispensers.  Apple filed this application in July 2011, according to
patent office data.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  ‘Steve Jobs’ Trademark Sought in Turkey for Use With Textiles  A resident of  Turkey  has applied to register “Steve
Jobs” as a trademark in that country, the Patently Apple
website  reported .  The application was filed with the Turkish Patent Institute
in October 2011, the same month the founder of Apple Inc. died
of the complications of pancreatic cancer, Patently Apple
reported.  The application specifies that the mark is to be used with
textiles, according to Patently Apple.  Patently Apple quoted from a translation of the Turkish-
language application in which the seeker of the mark said, “We
think Steve Jobs is a worldwide name that will never be
forgotten.”  Metallica Loses Bid to Halt Metal Shop’s Quest for Trademark  A metals-manufacturing shop in the Vancouver suburb of
Burnaby, British Columbia, has won a three-year battle to
register its name as a trademark despite opposition from a
California-based rock band, the Vancouver Sun  reported .  The Canadian Intellectual Property Office has told
 Metallica Manufacturing  that there’s no likelihood of confusion
between its name and that of the heavy-metal band  Metallica ,
according to the Sun.  The band began objecting after the manufacturing shop tried
to register its name as an Internet domain name, the Sun
reported.  William Lawson told the Sun that winning the right to
register its name as a trademark “is not a gloating issue”
because “we just want to be left alone.”  Philippine Companies Seeking Trademarks Under Madrid Protocol  The Intellectual Property Office of the  Philippines  said 23
different indigenous brands have sought trademark protection
under a protocol that can provide them with registration in 86
countries that have signed on to that protocol, the Manila
Bulletin reported.  Applicants represent a wide range of industries including
food, pharmaceuticals, clothing, soap, pharmaceuticals and a
church, according to the Manila Bulletin.  The Philippines signed on to the trade accord, which is
known as the Madrid protocol, in March 2012, the Bulletin
reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  U.S. School District Looks at Ownership of Student’s Copyrights  A Maryland school district east of Washington is
considering a policy that would claim the copyrights to works
created by teachers or their students, the  Washington  Post
 reported .  Members of Prince George’s County Board of Education came
up with the idea after attending an Apple Inc. presentation on
the use of apps to create curricular materials, according to the
Post.  Under the policy, work created by employees or students for
use by the Prince George’s County Public Schools “are
properties of the Board of Education even if created on the
employee’s or student’s time and with the use of their
materials,” the proposed policy specifies, the Post reported.  Verjeana M. Jacobs, who heads the school board, told the
Post that counsel for the board needs to work on the language
and that it’s likely amendments may be made to the policy before
the next meeting.  New Zealand Music Trade Group Losing Money on Copyright Claims  A music-industry trade group has expended NZ$250,000
($210,775) to collect NZ$617 from an alleged music pirate, the
New Zealand Herald  reported .  The Recording Industry Association of New Zealand was
awarded the damages in the first file-sharing decision rendered
by that nation’s Copyright Tribunal since a law went into effect
in September 2011 allowing rights holders to send out
infringement notices and use the tribunal to collect damages,
according to the Herald.  Those who claim their copyrights have been infringed must
pay a fee of NZ$25 to an Internet service provider for each of
its subscribers it is asked to inform of possible infringement
claims against them, the Herald reported.  The music-industry trade group said the fee paid to the
Internet service providers should be dropped to NZ$2 per notice,
an idea that has been rejected by the government, according to
the Herald.  ‘Any Body Can Dance’ Choreographer Wants to Copyright Moves  A choreographer and director of Indian films is considering
seeking copyright registration tied to his forthcoming film,
according to a website that follows the Indian film industry.  BollywoodLife.com reported that  Remo D’Souza  is looking for
a way to protect and monetize original dance moves he
choreographed for his film, “ Any Body Can Dance .”  He said that he’s looking at the model of the music
industry in which lyricists and music composers get paid when
their compositions are played on the radio, according to
BollywoodLife.com.  “So why can’t we get paid” if our dance moves are
performed on stage by somebody, D’Souza said, and
BollywoodLife.com reported.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Three Coloradans Accused of Trade Secret Theft from EPSI  Three Colorado residents have been charged with theft of
trade secrets from a Maryland Heights, Missouri-based company
that provides electrical testing services.  The Denver district attorney’s office said in a  statement 
that the three stole “hundreds of thousands of dollars’ worth”
of proprietary information belonging to Electric Power Systems
International Inc. with the aim of providing the data to a
competitor.  Additionally, after the accused took the information by
downloading it to portable drives, they allegedly deleted the
files from Electric Power System’s computers, according to the
statement.  The three are charged with computer crime, conspiracy to
commit computer crime, conspiracy to commit theft and conspiracy
to commit theft of trade secrets, in addition to the trade-
secrets charges.  Court dates for the three accused haven’t been set yet,
according to the statement.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 