-- Google Faces New EU Antitrust Complaint From Technology Group
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-02-05T16:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/google-faces-new-eu-antitrust-complaint-from-technology-group.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  faces another antitrust
complaint from a group of rivals as it seeks to settle the
European Commission’s two-year probe into claims its search
results discriminate against competitors.  ICOMP, a coalition including  Microsoft Corp (MSFT) , said it
submitted a new dossier to the European Commission on Jan. 30,
alleging that the world’s largest search engine obtained its
dominance through unfair agreements with other companies in the
Internet and advertising industry.  “By creating an illegal network of exclusive relationships
with these important partners, Google achieved its key
objective: gaining scale for itself while preventing its rivals
from doing the same,” ICOMP said in a statement on its website.  Google last week submitted an offer to regulators to settle
the antitrust probe after Joaquin Almunia asked the Mountain
View, California-based company to January to address allegations
that the company promotes its own specialist search-services,
copies rivals’ travel and restaurant reviews, and has agreements
with websites and software developers that stifle competition in
the advertising industry. He first told Google in May that he
wanted to settle the case.  If regulators decide that the company’s concessions could
allay antitrust concerns, they can send it to rivals and
customers for comments. If this market test is successful, the
EU can make the commitments legally binding. Such a settlement
would avoid possible fines against Google.  Microsoft is among ICOMP members that already complained to
the EU over Google’s behavior. The Brussels-based commission
confirmed today it received the ICOMP complaint last week.  “We continue to work co-operatively with the commission,”
said Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, on the new
complaint.  ICOMP members Foundem, Hot-Map.com and Streetmap.co.uk
previously asked regulators to investigate whether Google’s
search results unfairly shut out rival products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 