-- IAG’s Walsh Pledges to ‘Do It Again’ in Taking on Iberia Unions
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-02-05T12:25:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/iag-s-walsh-pledges-to-do-it-again-in-taking-on-iberia-unions.html
IAG (IAG)  Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  pledged to push through job cuts at Spanish unit Iberia in
the face of union opposition, pointing to his past record in
slashing costs at British Airways and Aer Lingus Group Plc.  “We will reform Iberia and we will secure its viability,”
Walsh said in  London , adding that a move on Feb. 1 to go ahead
with cuts without union agreement was the first of a number of
“difficult” steps to be taken. “People can be confident we will
resolve this issue. I’ve done it before and I’ll do it again.”  IAG is pressing on with a plan to shrink Iberia operations
by 15 percent after the rejection of proposals that would have
limited job losses to 3,147. While the capacity cut implies an
initial workforce reduction of 3,500, analysts have said Walsh
may need to eliminate more posts and cut pay if he’s to deliver
a 600 million-euro ($814 million) earnings turnaround by 2015.  While Walsh previously faced down strikes to cut positions
and wages at British Airways and as CEO of Ireland’s  Aer Lingus (AERL) ,
he said Iberia’s talks are being left to local executives.  “It’s the responsibility of the management at Iberia to do
it and they’re the people that are managing the negotiations
with the trade unions,” he said in an interview at the annual
Business Travel Show in London. “They’re the people responsible
for implementing the change, so they will continue to do it.”  Euro Shock  Walsh said he doesn’t regret going ahead with the 2011
merger of British Airways and Iberia to form London-based IAG,
as International Consolidated Airlines Group SA is known, and
that Spanish costs were always known to present a major hurdle.  “There are issues we were well aware of and knew we would
have to tackle,” the CEO said. “The issue that we didn’t
appreciate -- I don’t think anyone did -- was just how bad the
euro-zone crisis would become.”  Walsh said in the interview that British Airways regards
the London-Ireland market as an important one, while declining
to comment on whether his company would agree to boost flights
in conjunction with  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ’s plan to win antitrust
approval for a takeover of Dublin-based Aer Lingus.  British Airways resumed flights between London’s Heathrow
airport and Dublin last year -- returning to a route exited in
1991 -- when it opted to retain services flown by BMI following
its purchase of the U.K.-based  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  unit.  BA quit flights from  London Gatwick  to the Irish capital in
2009. It also code-shares on Aer Lingus operations where
passengers transfer to services of its own, though terminated
collaboration on point-to-point traffic in 2004.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  