-- IBM Adds Cheaper Power Servers to Expand in Emerging Markets
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-02-05T02:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/ibm-adds-cheaper-power-servers-to-expand-in-emerging-markets.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the largest computer-services provider, will sell a
cheaper set of high-end servers in a bid to reach customers in
emerging markets.  The new range of Power computer mainframes starts at
$5,947, about 50 percent cheaper than their predecessors, said
Rod Adkins, senior vice president of IBM’s Systems & Technology
Group. The lower price may help IBM sell more sophisticated
servers in developing countries in  Africa , South America and
Southeast Asia, while opening up the chance for upgrades and
add-ons later, Adkins said.  “You have customers that are dependent on what they can
afford, and this puts Power into their path,” said Adkins, who
will announce the news in Johannesburg today. “Some customers
might decide to act small now, and because these products can be
scaled they will buy more.”  As the mainframe becomes a commodity because of standard,
widely available components, Armonk, New York-based IBM has
focused on selling higher-end products to customers like banks
and governments that are willing to pay up for sophisticated
analysis and security tools. With the new products, IBM may be
able to sell its own computer servers to businesses that
previously used cheaper, generic hardware.  IBM is betting on  emerging markets  to carry out this trend.
Revenue from those countries rose 4 percent in 2012, compared
with a 2 percent  drop  for the company overall. Revenue for
Adkins’s hardware group slipped 7.5 percent, to $18.3 billion.  The Power systems servers, as well as IBM’s higher-end
zEnterprise mainframes, can be tailored to analyze large sets of
data. Watson, the IBM computer that beat humans on the trivia
show “Jeopardy!,” is built with Power servers. The cheaper
versions will be available worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  