-- IFC Raises Size of Debut Nigerian Bond Sale on Demand
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-02-05T18:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/ifc-raises-size-of-debut-nigerian-bond-sale-on-demand.html
(Corrects IFC vice-president name in second paragraph.)  The International Finance Corp.
raised the size of its first Nigerian local-currency bond sale
to 12 billion naira ($76.3 million) after investor demand was
more than double the initial offering.  The lender, a unit of the  World Bank , initially planned to
issue 8 billion naira, increasing the amount after the order
book came in at 20 billion naira, Jingdong Hua, vice-president
and treasurer at the IFC, said in a phone interview from
Washington today. The “Naija” bonds maturing in February 2018
were sold with a 10.2 percent coupon, he said.  Nigeria ’s bond yields have dropped since JPMorgan Chase &
Co., the world’s biggest underwriter of emerging-market debt,
said in August it would add the country’s securities to its
benchmark GBI-EM index in October last year. Barclays Plc will
add Nigerian debt to its local-currency government bond index in
March.  “The market is feeling hot because it’s being included in
the JPMorgan and Barclays indexes,” said Hua. The bond will
help “pave the way for international issuers” to sell in
Nigerian currency, Hua said.  Yields on the government bonds of Africa’s biggest oil
producer maturing January 2022 have fallen 97 basis points, or
0.97 percent, this year to 11.01 percent, according to data
compiled today on the Financial Markets Dealers Association
website.  Chapel Hill Advisory Partners Ltd. in Lagos, Nigeria’s
commercial capital, and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  are the lead
managers on the naija bond.  Africa Lending  The IFC has a committed portfolio of $1.1 billion in
Nigeria, it’s largest on the continent and eighth-largest
globally. The lender announced in May a pan-African medium-term
bond program, which focuses on countries including  Botswana ,
 Kenya ,  South Africa ,  Uganda  and Zambia. The Naija bonds are not
part of the program.  The IFC is planning to issue another one or two African
local-currency bonds this year, Hua said. “We are working very
hard to promote local-currency lending.”  The Washington-based lender’s investments in sub-Saharan
Africa have tripled since 2006, reaching $4 billion last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  