-- IFC Debut Nigerian Bond Sale Garners Demand Twice Offered
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-02-05T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/ifc-debut-nigerian-bond-sale-garners-demand-twice-offered.html
The International Finance Corp.
raised the size of its debut Nigerian local-currency bond sale
to 12 billion naira ($76.3 million) after investors sought more
than twice the amount initially offered amid pent-up demand for
debt of Africa’s biggest oil producer.  The World Bank unit planned to issue 8 billion naira and
increased the amount after orders came in at 20 billion naira,
 Jingdong Hua , vice-president and treasurer at the IFC, said in a
phone interview from Washington yesterday. The “Naija” bonds,
which will be listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange and mature
in February 2018, were sold with a 10.2 percent coupon, he said.  Nigeria’s bond yields have dropped to record lows as
JPMorgan Chase & Co., the world’s biggest underwriter of
emerging-market debt, added the securities to its benchmark GBI-
EM index in October. Barclays Plc will add Nigerian debt to its
local-currency government bond index next month.  “Nigeria has seen a lot of interest,”  Stuart Culverhouse ,
chief economist at London-based brokerage Exotix Ltd., said in a
phone interview from London yesterday. “A lot of investors
can’t do local currency” and “because it’s an international
issuer it would reduce some investor concerns about accessing
the local market directly and gives them another way of getting
exposure,” he said.  Pave Way  The bond will pave the way for international issuers to
sell in Nigerian currency, Hua said. “The market is feeling hot
because it’s being included in the JPMorgan and Barclays
indexes.”  Yields on Nigerian government bonds maturing January 2022
have fallen 97 basis points, or 0.97 percent, this year to 11.01
percent, according to yesterday’s data compiled on the Financial
Markets Dealers Association website. The extra yield investors
receive for holding Nigerian dollar bonds maturing in January
2021 rather than similar-maturity South African dollar debt has
narrowed 60 basis points this year to 48.  The Central Bank of Nigeria led by Governor  Lamido Sanusi 
left the benchmark interest rate unchanged at a record-high 12
percent for an eighth consecutive meeting on Jan. 21. While
inflation eased to 12 percent in December, it’s still above the
bank’s goal of below 10 percent.  The naira, which advanced 3.9 percent last year against the
dollar, the best-performing currency in Africa, is being
supported in part by portfolio inflows, Sanusi said after the
meeting. Short-term inflows are less than 20 percent of
reserves, he said in a Jan. 25 interview.  Africa Debt  “The lower-hanging fruit around the trade has probably
evaporated somewhat, but I think there is some attractive upside
left,” said Culverhouse. “The central bank is likely to cut
interest rates this year in the first half and that should give
stimulus to yield compression.”  Chapel Hill Advisory Partners Ltd. in Lagos, Nigeria’s
commercial capital, and  Standard Chartered Plc  are the lead
managers of the IFC bond sale.  The lender has a committed portfolio of $1.1 billion in
Nigeria, it’s largest on the continent and eighth-largest
globally. The IFC announced in May a pan-African medium-term
bond program, which focuses on countries including Botswana,
Kenya, South Africa, Uganda and Zambia. The so-called Naija
bonds are not part of the program.  The IFC is planning to issue another one or two African
local-currency bonds this year, Hua said. “We are working very
hard to promote local-currency lending.”  The Washington-based lender’s investments in sub-Saharan
Africa have tripled since 2006, reaching $4 billion last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  