-- High-Yield in California Gives Governments Bonanza
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-02-05T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/high-yield-in-california-gives-governments-bonanza.html
California ’s rebounding finances are
drawing investors to the riskiest debt of the world’s ninth-
largest economy, buoying prospects for a revival in bond sales
by its blight-fighting organizations.  The successor to the San Francisco Redevelopment Agency
sold $123 million of debt last week, a year after lawmakers
abolished the issuers. The offer marked the first new bonds to
back a redevelopment project since all of the more than 400
authorities were eliminated as part of steps to balance the
state budget. The securities are unrated, placing them among the
most default-prone local obligations.  With the state poised for its first surplus in almost a
decade and muni yields close to  47-year lows , some investors are
turning to riskier California bonds. U.S. high-yield local bonds
have gained 1.3 percent this year, double the investment-grade
return,  Standard & Poor’s  data show. Debt of former
redevelopment agencies is also rallying, fueling demand for San
Francisco’s sale and raising prospects other cities may follow.  “People are more comfortable that this type of debt is
going to pay,” said Bill Black,  Oakbrook Terrace , Illinois-
based co-manager of the $7.3 billion Invesco High Yield
Municipal Fund, which bought some of the issue. “There’s also a
demand for high-yield debt, particularly in California.”  Boats Lifted  The most-populous state had its bond rating raised by S&P
last week for the first time since 2006 as the revenue outlook
improves for the home to companies such as Apple Inc. and
Facebook Inc. The fourth-biggest crude oil producer among states
has also seen home values rise more than the national average in
the past year, according to Zillow Inc. data.  Under California’s redevelopment program, municipalities
formed taxing authorities that issued bonds to improve blighted
areas and repaid them with levies on property values enhanced by
the projects. The local authorities had nearly $30 billion in
debt as of June 30, 2010, the state controller said.  Governor  Jerry Brown , a 74-year-old Democrat, and
legislators eliminated the agencies effective Feb. 1, 2012, to
divert about $1 billion to schools. Brown signed a bill last
year  clarifying  that cities and counties taking on obligations
of the former agencies could issue debt to fulfill contracts
with developers.  Rail Yards  San Francisco’s agency had entered into a contract to
redevelop rail yards, according to a staff  report  to the
oversight board of the successor agency. The project includes
housing, a medical center, a police station, offices and
biomedical laboratories. It represents $9 billion in new
investment in the city, according to the report.  The issuer last week was the  Successor Agency to the San
Francisco City & County Redevelopment Agency . The tax-exempt
securities included bonds maturing in August 2022 and priced to
yield 3.54 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield
was about 1.9 percentage points higher than on AAA  munis ,
Bloomberg Valuation data show.  The sale may open the door to other cities, Black said.  “From an investor’s perspective we feel that the sale was
successful and should be conducive for more debt sales with
issuers that are in a similar position,” he said in an e-mail.  Risk Judgement  Still, unrated bonds are riskier than most local
borrowings. About 4 percent of such munis are in default,
compared with 0.1 percent of rated bonds, said Matt Fabian,
managing director of Municipal Market Advisors in Concord,
 Massachusetts . On a par basis, about 92 percent of munis 
are rated, he said.  For investors willing to take the risk, the extra yield is
appealing given the rally in lower-rated local debt. Ten-year
securities rated BBB, or two levels above junk, yield about  one
percentage point  above top-rated munis, close to the smallest
difference since 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Holders of securities issued by redevelopment agencies
before their elimination are benefiting from a rally in
California debt.  Federally taxable San Jose redevelopment bonds maturing in
August 2035 traded this week at an average yield of about 5.95
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That was about 2.9
percentage points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
according to BVAL analysis.  The difference is down from about 3.5 percentage points
early last year. Moody’s Investors Service rates the bonds one
level below investment grade.  Reimbursement Funds  Last week’s offer will reimburse the developer for public
improvements such as streets and utilities. Unlike redevelopment
bonds repaid through taxes on enhanced property values, the  San
Francisco  debt is funded through three special districts that
have been collecting taxes on property since 2002.  Such entities are common in California and levy taxes based
on the size of parcels rather than assessed value, said
Catherine Reilly, manager of the San Francisco project. The
three San Francisco districts will collect taxes on properties
until 2050 or the improvements are paid off, whichever comes
first, Reilly said in a telephone interview.  Investors probably were reassured by the familiar repayment
mechanism, Reilly said. At the same time, she said a limited
number of cities and counties will be able to replicate San
Francisco’s model. Under California’s tax-limiting Proposition
13, two-thirds of residents within the proposed area must vote
to form such a district.  In trading yesterday, yields on benchmark munis due in 10
years were little changed at 1.83 percent after the biggest
weekly jump since December, Bloomberg Valuation data show.  Following is a pending sale:  SANTA CLARA COUNTY in California plans to sell $490 million
of general-obligation bonds as soon as Feb. 7 via competitive
sale, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. (Added Feb. 4)  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  