-- Immigration Law Should Aid Economic Growth, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-02-05T17:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/immigration-law-should-aid-economic-growth-lawmaker-says.html
The House Judiciary Committee’s
Republican chairman urged a methodical study of potential
changes to immigration law with a focus on improving U.S.
economic competitiveness.  The “momentous debate on immigration” that Congress is
beginning “will be a massive undertaking with significant
implications for the future direction of our nation,’ Chairman
Bob Goodlatte of Virginia said at the opening of today’s hearing
on ways to improve the legal immigration system. ‘‘We can’t rush
to judgment.”  A bipartisan group of senators is trying to craft
comprehensive legislation that would include tougher border
security and a path to citizenship for millions of undocumented
immigrants now in the U.S.  Goodlatte said Congress should “move forward methodically
and evaluate this issue in stages.” Further hearings will focus
on border security and enforcement against illegal immigration,
he said. Lawmakers should “fully vet the pros and cons of each
piece,” he said.  Only 12 percent of legal immigrants to the U.S. are
selected “on the basis of their skill and education,”
Goodlatte said. Countries such as  Australia ,  Canada  and the U.K.
“select over 60 percent of their immigrants on this basis,” he
said.  Long Waits  The long wait for permanent U.S. residency erodes economic
competitiveness by discouraging highly skilled workers who
received temporary visas to work in the U.S., he said. So do
laws that “erect unnecessary hurdles for farmers” to hire
foreign workers, he said.  “Our agriculture guest worker program is simply unworkable
and needs to be reformed,” Goodlatte said.  Comments by Republican and Democratic lawmakers at the
hearing’s outset underscored philosophical differences between
the parties about immigration. Democrats stressed the value of
laws that allow intact families to immigrate, regardless of
their educational attainments. Republicans complained of lax
enforcement and highlighted the economic benefits of allowing
more skilled and highly educated workers into the country.  Illinois Democrat Luis Gutierrez, who rejoined the
Judiciary Committee this year to help lead an overhaul of the
immigration laws, said his parents came to the U.S. with limited
education. They didn’t have advanced degrees that qualify some
immigrants now to obtain H-1B visas, he said.  ‘Done Well’  “While I don’t hold any of these prestigious degrees
either, I’ve done well here,” Gutierrez said.  California Democrat Zoe Lofgren said  Intel Corp. (INTC)  co-founder
Andrew Grove, a native of  Hungary , and  Sergey Brin , a co-founder
of Google Inc. who was born in  Russia , immigrated with their
families, not as holders of visas reserved for highly skilled
workers or people with advanced degrees.  “From  Alexander Hamilton  to  Andrew Carnegie  to  Albert Einstein  we are a nation of immigrants,” Lofgren said.
“Immigration is good for our country.”  Goodlatte asked San Antonio Mayor Julian Castro if there
are “options we should consider between the extremes of mass
deportation and the path to citizenship” for 11 million people
unlawfully in the U.S.  “A pathway to citizenship is the option that Congress
should select,” said Castro, a Democrat whose twin brother
Joaquin was elected to Congress last year as a Democrat from the
San Antonio area. “I don’t see that as an extreme
option,” the mayor said.  Best Option  “In terms of the 11 million folks who are here, putting
them on a path to citizenship after they pay taxes, they pay a
fine, make sure they get back in line” for legalization is
“the best option,” Castro said.  South Carolina Republican Trey Gowdy, chairman of the
panel’s immigration subcommittee, said that when Congress last
overhauled the immigration law in 1986 it didn’t ensure
effective enforcement against illegal immigration while it gave
amnesty to millions of undocumented aliens in the country at the
time.  “We have traveled this road before,” he said. “In 1986
we are told that immigration was settled once and for all,” he
said. “The country got amnesty but is still waiting 35 years
later for border security and employer verification.”  Lofgren said lawmakers shouldn’t overestimate the value of
border enforcement in an era when “net migration from  Mexico  is
zero.” Concerns about border security “should not be used to
delay top-to-bottom reform of our laws,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  