-- Indonesia’s Economy Grows at Slowest Pace in Over Two Years
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-02-05T07:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/indonesia-economy-expands-at-slowest-pace-in-more-than-two-years.html
Indonesia’s economy grew at the
slowest pace in more than two years last quarter as an export
slump countered gains in domestic consumption, increasing
pressure on policy makers to add stimulus to bolster growth.  Gross domestic product  increased 6.11 percent in the three
months through December from a year earlier, the Central Bureau
of Statistics said in Jakarta today, compared with a revised
6.16 percent for the third quarter. The median of 20 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was 6.2 percent. The economy grew 6.2
percent in 2012.  Slowing growth may compound challenges for an economy that
is already contending with a weakening rupiah, declining exports
and a widening  current account deficit . While a global recovery
is brightening the outlook for Asia, President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono faces growing pressure to raise fuel prices and curb
oil imports as currency risks persist and the window to act
narrows ahead of elections due in 2014.  “For sustainable growth, Indonesia can’t only depend on
household consumption,” said Eric Alexander Sugandi, a Jakarta-
based economist at Standard Chartered Plc. “Exports may recover
in the second half of the year,” he said, adding that he
expects the economy will expand 6.5 percent this year.  The rupiah ended two days of gains to decline 0.2 percent
to 9,683 per dollar as of 1:48 p.m. in Jakarta, prices from
local banks compiled by Bloomberg show. The benchmark Jakarta
Composite index slipped 0.4 percent.  Fuel Subsidies  Vice President Boediono last month forecast a fall in
exports this year amid an uneven global recovery. Exports
dropped 6.6 percent in 2012, contributing to a trade deficit of
$1.63 billion last year.  Bank Indonesia will probably keep  interest rates  unchanged
at a record-low 5.75 percent when policy makers meet Feb. 12,
according to all 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
central bank last lowered rates in February 2012 and has avoided
adding to the reduction to bolster a currency that was among the
worst performers in Asia last year.  The rupiah weakened as the nation’s  current account 
remained in deficit. Fuel subsidies that keep charges below
international market rates have bolstered demand for energy
imports in the world’s fourth most-populous nation, contributing
to the widening current-account gap.  “Indonesia needs to improve its  balance of trade  to boost
the economy,” Suryamin, Chairman of the statistics office, said
today. “We expect the economy to grow faster this year as there
are many infrastructure projects that will be built this year.”  Government Spending  Indonesia missed its 2012 budget deficit target amid lower-
than-expected government expenditure, underscoring Yudhoyono’s
challenge to sustain one of Asia’s fastest growth rates with
spending on roads, ports and bridges. The government seeks
expansion of 6.5 percent to 6.8 percent this year, and sees
challenges in maintaining budget spending amid high subsidies,
Finance Minister Agus Martowardojo said today.  Private consumption increased 5.36 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, while investment rose 7.29 percent
and government spending fell 3.34 percent. Domestic consumption
accounted for 63.45 percent of full-year GDP, investment
contributed 33.16 percent, while net exports deducted 1.55
percent from the economy, today’s data showed.  “Indonesia’s growth momentum in 2012 has been led by its
robust investment growth,” said Gundy Cahyadi, an economist at
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in Singapore. “It is crucial to
see this strong investment growth sustain in 2013.”  Low interest rates and an expanding economy have boosted
earnings at lenders such as  PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BBRI) , the
country’s second-largest by assets, which reported 2012 profit
that beat analyst’s estimates. PT Lippo Karawaci, Indonesia’s
largest publicly-traded real estate developer by assets, plans
to build more shopping malls and hospitals in cities beyond
Jakarta to capitalize on an expanding middle class.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  