-- Treasuries Fall as Stronger European Economic Conditions
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-02-05T22:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/interest-rate-swap-most-in-5-months-versus-u-s-treasury-yield.html
Treasuries fell as stocks in Europe
rebounded from the biggest decline in three months and the gap
narrowed between German government debt yields and those in
Spain and Italy.  Benchmark 10-year yields traded close to the highest since
April after euro-area data showed services and manufacturing
output was revised higher last month, based on a survey of
purchasing managers. German bund yields rose as a rally in
equities curbed demand for safe assets, while Spanish and
Italian yields fell on easing political concern. The U.S.
government will post its first sub-$1 trillion federal deficit
in five years, according to the Congressional Budget Office.  “It is risk-on,” said  Sean Simko , who oversees $8 billion
at SEI Investments Co. in Oaks, Pennsylvania. “The question
that has to be asked ’is the move in the Treasury market
sustainable?’ The world’s improving, but there are still
consistent themes that probably warrant the Treasury market to
remain in a range.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  climbed four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 2 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield straddled  2
percent  for the fifth day and touched 2.06 percent yesterday,
the most since April 12, before closing lower. The 1.625 percent
note maturing in November 2022 fell 12/32, or $3.75 per $1,000
face amount, to 96 22/32.  Price Swings  Treasury volatility, as measured by the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch MOVE index  dropped  yesterday for a third day to
63.1, from a 12-week high of 66.4 on Jan. 30. The index has
averaged 56.7 since Nov. 7, the day after President Barack
Obama’s re-election.  A measure of traders’ inflation expectations that the Fed
uses to help determine monetary policy rose to the most since
August 2011. The five-year, five-year forward break-even rate
reached 2.93 percent. The tool projects what the pace of price
increases may be starting in 2018.  The Federal Reserve bought $1.5 billion of Treasuries
maturing from February 2036 to November 2042 as part of its plan
to bolster the economy. The central bank is buying $85 billion a
month of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities.  The U.S. government will post an $845 billion  deficit  this
fiscal year, the first time in five years that the shortfall has
been below $1 trillion, though the long-term budget outlook
remains grim, the CBO said today in Washington.  Budget Analysis  In the first comprehensive analysis of the government’s
finances since last month’s fiscal-cliff deal, the nonpartisan
agency said a surge of tax revenue will help cut the deficit to
its lowest since 2008. Next year’s shortfall will total $616
billion, and the government is projected to rack up at least $7
trillion in deficits over the next decade, according to the CBO.  “The markets are hinged on how we get through the
sequester process,” said  Scott Graham , head of government-bond
trading at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit in
Chicago, one of the 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.
“We’re only one month into the year, and the potential impact
from the tax increases have yet to be felt. I am expecting a
slow-down in some of the economic data.”  The Institute for Supply Management’s U.S.  non-
manufacturing  fell to 55.2 in January after climbing to a 10-
month high of 55.7 in December. The median forecast of 76
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was 55. A reading above 50
indicates expansion.  “The U.S. economy is putting in some decent data,” said
 Thomas di Galoma , a managing director at Navigate Advisors, a
brokerage for institutional investors in Stamford, Connecticut.
“The fundamentals seem to be getting better in the economy. The
24-hour safe-haven bid seems to be evaporating.”  European Yields  Yields on German 10-year bunds gained four basis points, to
1.65 percent. The yield on Spanish government debt maturing in
10 years fell six basis points to 5.35 percent, while the yield
on Italian 10-year securities dropped one basis point to 4.45
percent.  Spain’s Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy battled to rebut
corruption allegations, which sent yields surging yesterday.
Opposition leader Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba demanded on Jan. 3
that Rajoy step down to restore faith in the nation’s political
class.  Italy’s caretaker Prime Minister Mario Monti accused former
Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of trying to buy votes by
promising a cash rebate of 4 billion euros. Concern about the
potential for a Berlusconi comeback had contributed to a rise in
Italian yields yesterday.  European services and manufacturing output shrank less than
initially estimated in January, adding to signs the currency
bloc’s economy is beginning to emerge from recession.  A composite index rose to 48.6 from 47.8 in December,
London-based Markit Economics said in a report today. That’s
above an initial estimate of 47.2 published on Jan. 24. A
reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Treasuries have handed investors a 0.9 percent loss this
year as of yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes, as money managers sought higher-yielding assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  