-- IRC Seeks $160 Million Bank Loans to Complete Mine Expansion
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-02-05T12:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/irc-seeks-160-million-bank-loans-to-complete-mine-expansion.html
IRC Ltd. (1029) , an iron ore miner in
 Russia ’s Far East, wants to raise as much as $162 million by
2015 after agreeing to sell about $238 million of shares to two
Chinese traders to expand its K&S mine.  IRC, a unit of gold miner  Petropavlovsk Plc (POG) , will quadruple
annual production of iron ore to more than 4 million tons once
its K&S mine in southeast Russia starts in the first half of
2014. IRC last month agreed to sell a 31.4 percent stake to
General Nice Development Ltd. and 4.5 percent to a unit of China
Minmetals Corp.  “The money we have from the Chinese investors gives us the
chance to double the size of K&S from 3.2 million to about 6.2
million tons,” IRC Chairman Jay Hambro said. “The total built
cost for K&S is $400 million, so we have ongoing conversations
with Chinese and Russian banks to give us some debt.”  IRC doesn’t need the extra cash until the end of next year,
when it plans to start the expansion, and the banks include
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., he said.  Chinese steel production will rise about 4 percent this
year as economic growth picks up, boosting demand for iron ore,
according to the China Metallurgical Industry Planning &
Research Institute.  Iron ore prices will range from $120 to $170 a ton in the
long term to average about $140 a ton, Hambro said. Demand for
the steelmaking raw material will continue to rise while supply
growth will be slow because of project delays and cost
increases, he said.  Writedown  Anglo American Plc on Jan. 29 said it would write down $4
billion from the value of its Minas-Rio iron-ore project in
 Brazil  and raise spending for a sixth time after prior blowouts
forced Chief Executive Officer Cynthia Carroll to quit. Rio
Tinto Group CEO Tom Albanese also quit Jan. 17 after unveiling
$14 billion of writedowns, partly after its $38 billion purchase
of Alcan Inc. in 2007.  Shareholders in mining companies such as Anglo, which lost
almost half its value in the past two years, have fallen victim
to a rush of acquisitions as commodity prices rallied in 2008
and 2011, and then asset prices slumped.  “Banks like to fund things that generate cash and are
liquid,” Hambro said. “You fund a mine and mining equipment
but you don’t fund a railway because you can’t pick it up and
sell it, so shareholders won’t fund it, the banks won’t fund it,
so it’s very difficult for many companies to bring new supplies
on.”  IRC is confident of getting the approval of its
shareholders for the deal with the Chinese traders when they
vote it next month, Hambro said. “Everyone we met expressed
positive feedback about the deal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  