-- Iron Ore Seen Poised for Bear Market by Smirk on Supplies
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-02-05T13:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/iron-ore-seen-poised-for-bear-market-by-smirk-on-rising-supply.html
Iron ore  may fall 35 percent by the
year-end after advancing to $170 a metric ton in the first half
as mines in  China  boost production, cutting import demand in the
world’s largest buyer, according to Westpac Banking Corp.  The price of the steelmaking raw material may tumble to
$110 a ton by the end of 2013, according to Sydney-based senior
economist Justin Smirk. Ore with 62 percent content delivered to
Tianjin was unchanged at $154.20 a dry ton today, according to
data from The Steel Index Ltd. Smirk is the most accurate base-
metals forecaster tracked by Bloomberg in the past three
quarters and correctly predicted a  price slump  last year.  Iron ore has surged from a three-year low in September as
China’s growth rebounded in the final quarter and imports rose
to a record. Bank of America Corp. said last month the commodity
may fall to $110 a ton by the year-end, while Deutsche Bank AG
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. also predict a second-half slump as
worldwide supply increases. Some investors deem a drop of 20
percent or more to be a  bear market .  “Given the low level of inventories and where prices are
going, we think Chinese production will respond,” Smirk said in
an interview today. “The big swing will come through from China
itself,” he said, referring to iron ore production.  Reduced Stockpiles  Inventories at Chinese ports dropped 5.2 percent this year
to 66.9 million tons, the lowest since January 2010, according
to data from Beijing Antaike Information Development Co. Global
seaborne demand will increase 8.3 percent this year, with China
boosting purchases 12 percent, Morgan Stanley estimates. The
country is the world’s largest steelmaker.  Chinese mine supply may increase from March after
production was curbed by the coldest winter snap in almost 30
years, Credit Suisse AG said Jan. 10. Steelmakers in China are
using more domestic ore after the rally in the price of imports,
researcher Mysteel.com said in a report last month.  China’s ore demand may total 677 million tons this year
based on 62 percent iron content, according to Morgan Stanley,
which estimates that local mines will supply the equivalent of
260 million tons. Australia and  Brazil  are the largest shippers.  Through to the end of the year, iron ore “will start
falling away as global supply comes along, Chinese supply
recovers and inventories have been built up,” said Smirk.  Swap Prices  Swaps from GFI Group Inc. show that prices are expected to
decline over the year. The swap for this month was at $155 a ton
at 12:39 p.m. in  London  after losing 50 cents, with June at
$140.50, September at $133.50 and December at $128.  The ore rally will end as steel demand slows, according to
Fitch Ratings CIS Ltd. Producers can’t afford to absorb higher
raw-materials costs or pass them on to customers, analysts
including Alexei Fadyushin said in a report today. European
output will drop on weak demand for construction and cars, while
Chinese steel demand growth has peaked and output gains will
trail 5 percent a year, the credit-rating company estimates.  Manufacturing in the second-largest economy sustained an
expansion last month, according to data from the National Bureau
of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing,
as well as HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.  New-house prices climbed 1 percent in January, the most in
two years, SouFun Holdings Ltd., the country’s biggest real
estate website owner, said Feb. 1. Steel is used in
construction, infrastructure, autos and appliances.  India ’s Karnataka state will resume output from seven iron-
ore mines after a ban on mining was lifted. Initial supplies
from the mines will start in the next two weeks, H.R. Srinivasa,
the state’s mining director, said yesterday. Indian shipments
last year totaled 47 million tons, according to Morgan Stanley.  Iron ore is measured in dry tons, or metric tons less
moisture. At Tianjin, moisture can account for 8 percent to 10
percent of the ore’s weight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  