-- Service Industries Sustain Gain as U.S. Hiring Climbs
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-02-05T21:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/ism-services-gauge-in-u-s-fell-to-55-2-in-january-from-55-7.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
expanded in January at about the same pace as the prior month,
driving demand for more workers and helping cushion the economy
in the face of the Washington budget battle.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
 index  slipped to 55.2 from a 10-month high of 55.7 in December,
the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. Readings above 50
signal expansion. The group’s employment gauge was the strongest
in seven years.  More jobs improve the odds that the recent pickup in
 consumer spending  will be sustained as households deal with the
two percentage-point increase in the  payroll tax . The gain,
coming just as lawmakers try to fashion a budget compromise,
indicates companies such as MasterCard Inc. and  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) 
will keep benefiting from growing demand.  “We are starting to see more evidence of an improving
labor market,” said Kevin Cummins, an economist at UBS
Securities LLC in Stamford,  Connecticut , who projected a reading
of 55. “So far, it doesn’t seem the consumer has fallen off a
cliff.”  Stocks advanced as more companies posted improving
earnings. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1 percent to
1,511.29 at the close in  New York .  Elsewhere, the U.K. services industry unexpectedly grew in
January at the fastest pace in four months, indicating the
economy there may avoid an unprecedented triple-dip recession. A
gauge of activity surged to 51.5, the highest since September,
from 48.9 in December, Markit Economics and the  Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said in  London  today.  China Services  Chinese service industries may also be on the mend. They
expanded last month at the fastest pace since August as gains in
retailing and construction helped drive a recovery. The non-
manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’ Index was 56.2 in January
after 56.1 a month earlier, the Beijing-based National Bureau of
Statistics and China Federation of Logistics & Purchasing said
in a statement Feb. 3.  The median forecast of 76 economists in a Bloomberg survey
called for a reading of 55 in the U.S. services gauge. Estimates
ranged from 53 to 57.5. The index, which includes industries
from utilities and retail to health care, housing and finance,
has averaged 53.5 since the recession ended in June 2009.  The ISM’s  employment gauge  jumped to 57.5, the highest
since February 2006, from 55.3 in the prior month, today’s
report showed. The measure of  new orders  decreased to the lowest
since April 2012.  A rebound in housing is a reason Federal Reserve Governor
Elizabeth Duke said she’s upbeat about the outlook for the
economy in the wake of a fourth-quarter slowdown.  Duke ‘Optimistic’  “I’m actually on the optimistic side,” Duke said today in
response to audience questions during a speech in Duluth,
 Georgia . “If you look at the underlying thesis, the growth in
 consumer spending  and some of the business growth, I think there
is some momentum building, particularly in the area of
housing.”  Duke backed the Federal Open Market Committee decision last
week to continue purchasing securities at the rate of $85
billion a month. The Fed said economic growth “paused in recent
months, in large part because of weather-related disruptions and
other transitory factors,” while “the housing sector has shown
further improvement.”  Spending on all  construction  projects rose 0.9 percent in
December to an $885 billion annual rate, the highest since
August 2009, Commerce Department figures showed on Feb. 1.
Homebuilding outlays increased 2.2 percent to the highest level
since November 2008.  PulteGroup View  The gains have generated more optimism among companies such
as  Bloomfield Hills , Michigan-based PulteGroup, the largest
homebuilder by market value.  “The combination of incredibly low  mortgage rates ,
continued increases in rental rates and especially rising  home
prices , and very low -- and likely to stay low -- inventory
levels for housing lead us to believe that 2013 will be a better
year for U.S. housing than 2012,” Chief Executive Officer
 Richard Dugas  said on a Jan. 31 earnings call.  Real-estate agents are also benefiting. Figures from the
National Association of Realtors show 4.65 million previously
owned homes were sold in 2012, up 9.2 percent from the previous
year and the biggest increase since 2004.  A rebound in manufacturing may also ripple through the rest
of the economy. The Institute for Supply Management’s  factory
gauge  advanced to a nine-month high of 53.1 in January, the
group reported last week.  Employment Growth  A Labor Department report last week showed the job market
is improving. Employers added 157,000 workers in January after a
revised 196,000 rise the prior month and a 247,000 surge in
November. Revisions added a total of 127,000 jobs in the last
two months of 2012.  A hurdle for consumers is higher payroll taxes. As part of
its budget agreement on Jan. 1, Congress agreed to let the tax,
used to pay for Social Security benefits, return to its 2010
level of 6.2 percent from 4.2 percent. That reduces the paycheck
by about $83 a month for someone who earns $50,000.  Republican leaders in the  House of Representatives  are
considering a stopgap measure to fund the government for the
rest of the fiscal year that could reduce spending below $1
trillion, Representative James Lankford, an Oklahoma Republican,
said yesterday in an interview.  They are running through all possible scenarios as two
fiscal deadlines near. On March 1, automatic spending cuts
stemming from an impasse between the White House and Congress
over  deficit reduction  take effect, while the continuing
resolution funding U.S. government operations expires on March
27.  Some Cautious  MasterCard, the second-biggest U.S. payments network,
posted fourth-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as
customers shopped more. Nonetheless, the Purchase, New York-
based business is cautious about the first-quarter outlook.  “Any optimism that we have about the economy, however,
will be tempered until we see what happens to  consumer
confidence  and spending” as  federal budget  negotiations
continue, Chief Executive Officer  Ajay Banga  said on a Jan. 31
conference call with analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  