-- Bulgaria Links Hezbollah to Bus Bomb That Killed Israelis
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-02-05T22:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/israeli-bus-attack-in-bulgaria-linked-to-hezbollah-1-.html
Bulgaria  implicated Hezbollah in the
bombing of a tourist bus last year that killed five Israelis and
their Bulgarian bus driver, prompting  Israel  and the U.S. to
renew calls for the European Union to designate the Lebanese
militant group a terrorist organization.  Bulgarian Interior Minister Tsvetan Tsvetanov told
reporters yesterday that his government’s investigation found
“evidence of links and financing” from Hezbollah based on
information about the suspected conspirators.  The U.S. and Israel, which have designated Hezbollah as a
terrorist group, have pressed the EU to do the same. The
evidence in the Bulgarian attack may increase pressure now to do
so.  “The implications of the investigation need to be assessed
seriously as they relate to a terrorist attack on EU soil,” the
spokeswoman for EU foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton said in
a  statement  yesterday. “The EU and member states are committed
to the fight against terrorism, whoever stands behind it.”  The EU treats Hezbollah as a Lebanese political and social
movement that also has a militant arm. The EU has lacked a
consensus needed to designate the group a terrorist
organization, which would block its fundraising and other
activities in  Europe , because some Europeans governments see it
as a legitimate political organization and a powerful influence
in Lebanon.  Calling the Bulgarian finding “very significant,”
Israel’s Ambassador to the U.S. Michael Oren said it undermines
the EU’s argument that Hezbollah shouldn’t be labeled a
terrorist group because it never carried out an attack or killed
Europeans on their territory.  ‘Much Harder’  “Now the EU is going to have a much harder time making
that justification,” Oren said in a phone interview.  Two of the suspects in the July 18 attack on a tourist bus
parked at the airport near Burgas, a popular holiday spot on the
Black Sea, are holders of an Australian and a Canadian passport
who have lived in Lebanon since 2006, Tsvetanov told reporters
in the capital Sofia.  Bulgarian authorities have a “well-grounded assumption”
that they were members of Hezbollah’s military wing, he said.
The third suspect is still unidentified, he said.  Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister John Baird confirmed
yesterday that one suspect was a dual national with Canadian
citizenship living in Lebanon. Baird, speaking to reporters in
Ottawa, said he’s been encouraging the EU to designate Hezbollah
as a terrorist organization.  Australian Immigration Minister Brendan O’Connor said that
he wouldn’t comment on intelligence matters beyond saying
officials are working on the case, according to the website of
 Australia ’s ABC Radio National.  Global Network  Bulgarian and Israeli experts cooperated to identify the
suspects in coordination with the U.S. Federal Bureau of
Investigation and the Central Intelligence Agency, Tsvetanov
said.  Shortly after the the suicide attack in which the bomber
died, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said that “all
signs lead to  Iran ” and threatened a forceful response.
Yesterday, in an e-mailed statement, he said that Hezbollah
“and its patron, Iran, are directing a global terror network.”
Europe should “draw the needed conclusions about Hezbollah and
its true character,” he said.  The U.S. said Bulgaria’s investigation provides further
evidence of Hezbollah’s terrorist activities, urging the EU to
take steps to obstruct the the Shiite militant group.  ‘Exposes Hezbollah’  “Bulgaria’s investigation exposes Hezbollah for what it
is -– a terrorist group that is willing to recklessly attack
innocent men, women, and children, and that poses a real and
growing threat not only to Europe, but to the rest of the
world,” President  Barack Obama ’s counter-terrorism adviser John Brennan said yesterday in a statement.  “We call on our European partners as well as other members
of the international community to take proactive action to
uncover Hezbollah’s infrastructure and disrupt the group’s
financing schemes and operational networks in order to prevent
future attacks,” he said.  State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said the U.S.
doesn’t share what has been the EU’s view of a distinction
between Hezbollah’s political and military wings. She said the
group has turned to European banks to get around U.S. sanctions.  “We have been in discussion with EU countries, both
bilaterally and as a union, for some time about our concerns
about what Hezbollah is up to, our hope that firmer action could
be taken,” she told reporters in  Washington  yesterday.  Probe Continues  U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague said “it is important
that the EU respond robustly to an attack on European soil.”  “The Home Secretary and I will be talking to our EU
colleagues about the measures we can now take to continue to
make our citizens safer,” he said.  The investigation of the bus bombing continues, and
Bulgaria has requested assistance from law enforcement
authorities in Lebanon,  Canada  and Australia, Tsvetanov said.
The government also tightened security of its embassy in  Beirut ,
the Lebanese capital, the foreign ministry in Sofia said in a
statement.  “The Bulgarian government and its leaders deserve praise
for thoroughly investigating this terrorist attack and for their
courage in implicating Hezbollah,” U.S. Representative Eliot Engel, a  New York  Democrat, said in an e-mailed statement.  “The targeting of innocents cannot be tolerated by any
European Union state and must be condemned forcefully and
unanimously by all member nations,” said Engel, the senior
Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “The time is
now for the EU to designate Hezbollah as a terrorist
organization and punish these murderers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  