-- Issa Says Prosecutors to Brief House Panel on Swartz Case
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-02-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/issa-says-prosecutors-to-brief-house-panel-on-swartz-case.html
The Justice Department has agreed to
brief a House committee on its decision to prosecute  Aaron Swartz , an Internet activist who committed suicide Jan. 11, on
computer hacking charges, the panel’s chairman said.  Representative  Darrell Issa , chairman of the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said yesterday the
Justice Department had pledged to give the panel’s members a
closed briefing on the case against Swartz.  At the time of his death, Swartz was facing an April trial
in Boston federal court on 13 felony charges. He is alleged to
have hacked into a Massachusetts Institute of Technology
computer and downloaded millions of files from JSTOR, an online
library of scientific and scholarly articles, according to a
Jan. 28 committee letter to Attorney General  Eric Holder 
requesting the briefing.  “It will be a closed briefing,” said Issa, a California
Republican. “Obviously there are some potential sensitivities
they are concerned about.”  The Justice Department hasn’t set a date for the briefing,
Issa said in an interview. “I am expecting to get line
prosecutors” to brief members because “we want the technical-
team details” including comparable penalties in other cases.
Issa said he would await the results of the briefing to
determine whether a public hearing is needed.  In a letter to Holder, Issa and Maryland Representative
 Elijah Cummings , the panel’s top Democrat, asked the Justice
Department to explain the factors that figured in the decision
by the U.S. attorney’s office in Boston to charge Swartz.  Piracy Act  The lawmakers also asked whether Swartz’s opposition to the
Stop Online Piracy Act “or his association with any advocacy
groups among the factors considered” in deciding to bring the
case. The legislation was shelved last year after a global
online protest led by  Google Inc.  eroded congressional support.  Swartz, 26, co-founded the news and information site
Reddit, as well as Demand Progress, a group that advocated
against Internet piracy bills.  Issa said he is considering “possible legislation to
divine the difference between the person who steals our Social
Security numbers” and “the person who simply finds out they
can get information in excess of what they were authorized to in
a college system.”  Swartz, Issa said, “appears to fit that last category at
least in some part.”  In a statement following Swartz’s death, U.S. Attorney
 Carmen Ortiz  defended the case, saying prosecutors’ “conduct
was appropriate in bringing and handling this case.”  “The prosecutors recognized that there was no evidence
against Mr. Swartz indicating that he committed his acts for
personal financial gain” so that it didn’t “warrant the severe
punishments authorized by Congress” for such offenses, Ortiz
said.  Ortiz disclosed that prosecutors had offered to recommend a
six-month sentence as part of plea negotiations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  