-- Italy’s Berlusconi Narrows Gap With Bersani After Tax Pledge
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-02-05T12:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/italy-s-berlusconi-narrows-gap-with-bersani-after-tax-pledge.html
Former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  narrowed the gap in polls with frontrunner Pier Luigi Bersani even further after his tax rebate promise, three weeks
before the country’s parliamentary elections.  The gap between the center-left bloc, led by the  Democratic
Party  leader, and Berlusconi’s coalition has narrowed by 1.2
percentage points to 6.1 points, according to an IPR poll for
RAI3 released yesterday.  Bersani’s bloc is losing ground amid a media blitz by
Berlusconi and a derivatives scandal at lender  Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA , which traditionally has strong links with
the Democratic Party. The 76-year billionaire is seeking to
build on his gains in polls and on Feb. 3 added to his promise
of abolishing an unpopular property tax known as IMU, pledging
to also reimburse the amount paid last year.  Berlusconi, the most successful politician of his
generation, has stepped up his anti-austerity rhetoric against
 Germany  and the euro as Italians are mired in their fourth
recession since 2001 and faced with a 13-year high  unemployment
rate . The signing of  Mario Balotelli  to his AC Milan soccer club
also helped Berlusconi, who is appealing a tax fraud conviction
he received in October, according to SWG Institute last week.  Support for Berlusconi’s coalition, which includes his
People of Liberty party, has risen by 0.5 percentage points to
28.6 percent according to IPR. The poll had a margin of error of
3.2 percentage points. Fifty-four percent of surveyed Italians
said the rebate of the property tax wasn’t credible, while 40
percent said it was feasible, the IPR poll showed.  Bersani Lead  A separate survey by the SWG Institute published today
indicates that Bersani’s lead widened by 0.5 percentage points
to 5.5 percentage points. The difference narrowed 0.8 percentage
points to 8 percent, according to an EMG poll for La7 conducted
Jan. 31 to Feb. 1, before Berlusconi’s giveaway promise.  Support for Prime Minister Monti’s coalition of centrist
parties fell by 0.9 to 13.3 percent, according to the SWG poll,
while the IPR poll showed a 0.8 percent decline to 14 percent.
Comedian Beppe Grillo’s anti-austerity movement is gaining
ground. The Five Star Movement’s support rose by 1 percentage
points to 14.5 percent, according to EMG, while IPR showed
Grillo advanced 0.9 percent to 15.5 percent, replacing Monti’s
coalition as third-largest bloc.  Even if Bersani still leads in all opinion polls,
Berlusconi’s surge may make it more difficult for him to
assemble an outright majority in the Senate, where the election
law doles out seats on a regional basis. Bersani’s bloc leads by
one percentage point in Lombardy, one of the key regions in the
race, according to the IPR poll. Should Bersani lose Lombardy,
it would need to win the swing regions of Sicily, Campania and
Veneto to get an outright majority in that house of parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  