-- Italian Notes Advance as Services Output Improves; Bunds Slide
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-02-05T16:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/italian-notes-advance-as-services-output-improves-bunds-slide.html
Italian and Spanish notes rose as
data showed European  services output  shrank less than economists
estimated last month, fueling optimism about the region’s
recovery and overshadowing prospects of political instability.  German bunds slumped, pushing 10-year yields up from the
least in more than a week, as gains in European stocks sapped
demand for the euro area’s safest assets. Spanish bonds advanced
as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  battled to rebut corruption
allegations. Italian  two-year note  yields dropped the most in
three weeks amid easing investor concern that budget reforms
will be derailed as former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
seeks a return to office.  “It is perhaps too soon to conclude that this is the long-
awaited reality check by the market,” said Elwin de Groot, a
market economist at Rabobank Nederland in Utrecht, the
Netherlands. “Political factors such as we are seeing in Spain
and  Italy  at the moment are always extremely difficult to gauge.
This could weigh on Spanish and Italian bonds for some time but
we should acknowledge the rally in markets since mid-2012.”  Italian two-year yields declined nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 1.64 percent at 4:23 p.m. London time,
after sliding as much as 14 basis points, the steepest drop
since Jan. 10. The 6 percent security due November 2014 rose
0.15 or 1.50 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,352) face amount, to
107.55. Ten-year yields slipped one basis point to 4.46 percent,
after climbing to 4.55 percent, the  highest  since Dec. 28.  Yields on Spanish two-year notes fell nine basis points to
2.80 percent while those on 10-year bonds were six basis points
lower at 5.38 percent.  Services Industry  An index based on a survey of purchasing managers in the
euro-area services industry rose to 48.6 from 47.8 in December,
London-based Markit Economics said in a report today. That’s
above an  initial estimate  of 48.3 published on Jan. 24. A
reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Bunds declined even as a report showed euro-area  retail
sales  fell more than economists estimated in December.  Sales in the 17-nation currency bloc fell 0.8 percent from
November, when they slipped a revised 0.1 percent, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Economists
had forecast a decline of 0.5 percent, according to the median
of 23 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey .  Germany ’s 10-year yield climbed five basis points to 1.66
percent after dropping 10 basis points in the past three days.  Political Uncertainty  Yields on Spanish bonds surged yesterday as Rajoy’s
assurances that allegations of illegal payments are false failed
to contain criticism. Opposition leader Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba
demanded on Jan. 3 that he step down to restore faith in the
nation’s political class.  Rajoy’s battle to rebut corruption allegations is adding to
the risk of holding Spanish government debt, according to
Pacific Investment Management Co.  “There is uncertainty as to the continuation of the
government’s policies and its leadership,”  Andrew Bosomworth ,
managing director at Pacific Investment Management Co., said in
a phone interview yesterday. “At least some questions remain
unanswered. That leads to uncertainty in the market.”  Italy’s caretaker prime minister  Mario Monti  accused
Berlusconi of trying to buy votes by promising a cash rebate of
4 billion euros. The gap between the center-left bloc, led by
Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani, and Berlusconi’s
coalition has narrowed by 1.2 percentage points to 6.1 points,
according to an IPR poll for RAI3 released yesterday.  Volatility on Italian bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of  France  and the Netherlands,
according to measures of 10-year or similar-maturity debt, the
yield spread between two-year and 10-year securities, and
credit-default swaps.  German  government bonds  have handed investors a loss of 1.4
percent this year through yesterday, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. Spanish and Italian securities returned 0.7
percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  