-- Japan May Lower LNG Costs 10% by Importing U.S. Fuel, IEEJ Says
-- B y   C h o u   H u i   H o n g
-- 2013-02-05T06:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/japan-may-lower-lng-costs-10-by-importing-u-s-fuel-ieej-says.html
Japan  may cut its liquefied natural
gas bill 10 percent by importing less-expensive supplies of the
fuel from the U.S., a government energy adviser said.  The country, the world’s largest LNG user, may purchase the
fuel at $9 per million British thermal units, creating savings
of 600 billion yen ($6.49 billion), Akira Yanagisawa, senior
economist from the Institute of Energy Economics, Japan, a
Tokyo-based research group known as IEEJ, said in a report
posted on its website. Prices of the gas to Northeast Asia rose
to $19 per million Btu, the World Gas Intelligence, an energy
research company, said Jan. 30.  LNG has replaced nuclear power as Japan’s primary fuel for
power generation after the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami led
the government to shut the country’s reactors. It paid 6
trillion yen, twice as much as the year before, for a record
high 87.3 million metric tons of gas imports in 2012, according
to customs data.  “Plans to import inexpensive LNG are gathering much
attention as a breakthrough to lower LNG import prices,”
Yanagisawa said. “Japan should maximize its benefits by using
U.S. LNG imports as leverage to gain advantageous terms for
other LNG imports as well, thereby pushing import prices down.”  Supplies from the U.S. would cost $9 per million Btu after
adding $3 for liquefaction and $2 for shipping to $4 for the
price of the fuel, Yanagisawa said, citing statistics from the
 International Energy Agency .  Gas futures for March delivery traded at $3.329 per million
Btu in electronic trading today on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange at 2:05 p.m. Singapore time.  Cheniere Energy’s Sabine Pass LNG facility in  Louisiana  is
the only project that has approval from the Department of Energy
to export LNG to countries like Japan that have no free trade
agreement with the U.S., according to the DOE’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  