-- Jury in Exxon Case Told MTBE Still in New Hampshire Wells
-- B y   S a r a h   E a r l e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-02-05T21:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/jury-in-exxon-case-told-mtbe-still-in-new-hampshire-wells.html
A gasoline additive that contaminated
 New Hampshire ’s drinking water still shows up in wells six years
after it was banned, an expert on fuel spills told a jury
deciding whether ExxonMobil Corp. is liable for the damage.  Gary Lynn, a manager of the state’s petroleum remediation
section, testified for the state in Concord today that the
additive methyl tertiary butyl ether, or MTBE, has recently been
detected in sites including a daycare center’s water supply. He
said the chemical moves through water quickly and unpredictably.  “It’s widespread in drinking-water wells and it shows up
frequently in places that we don’t expect it,” Lynn said.
“Groundwater levels are very high in New Hampshire, which makes
our state very vulnerable.”  New Hampshire might be seeking more than $200 million from
ExxonMobil, the last defendant on trial in the $816 million
lawsuit filed in 2003. The trial began Jan. 14. The case is one
of scores involving MTBE brought since 2000 against oil
refiners, fuel distributors and chemical makers.  ExxonMobil, based in Irving,  Texas , has argued that it
can’t be held liable because when it put MTBE into gasoline it
was complying with federal regulations that pre-empt state law.
The company contends MTBE was added to make gasoline burn more
thoroughly and thus reduce air pollution as required under the
1990  Clean Air Act .  Clean-Air Program  Kent Colburn, who once worked for New Hampshire’s
Department of Environmental Services, testified Jan. 28 that the
state wouldn’t have participated in a federal clean-air program
called reformulated gasoline, or RFG, if ExxonMobil had warned
of the the additive’s risks.  ExxonMobil said in court papers the state was aware of
MTBE’s risks when it opted into the RFG program in 1991 because
several years of studies on the additive had already been done.
New Hampshire extended its participation in the the clean-air
program in 1997. By 1999, the state was trying to get out of it.  MTBE, which is highly soluble in water and thus can be
carried great distances from where it leaked, is a “toxic
chemical that does not belong in the state’s drinking water,”
Jessica Grant, an attorney for New Hampshire, said in opening
remarks to the jury. It leaked from gas stations, vehicle
junkyards, underground  storage tanks  and pipe fittings, the
state said.  New Hampshire said that about 40,000 wells are contaminated
with MTBE and about 5,590 at levels determined to be unfit for
drinking. The additive was banned in New Hampshire as of January
2007.  Monetary Damages  The number of contaminated wells is a factor in determining
monetary damages if ExxonMobil is found liable. The state is
also seeking damages based on market share of gasoline sales in
New Hampshire during the period covered by the lawsuit.  ExxonMobil’s share was about 30 percent, the state said.
Based on an estimated cost of $816 million to test for, monitor
and clean up the groundwater, New Hampshire could be seeking
about $245 million from the company.  On Jan. 15, New Hampshire Superior Court Judge Peter Fauver
agreed to dismiss the other defendant from this trial, Citgo
Petroleum Corp., while the company and the state work to
complete a settlement. Citgo is the Houston-based unit of
 Petroleos de Venezuela SA , the country’s state-owned oil
company.  Citgo Liability  Citgo’s market share ranged from 3.1 percent to 8.7
percent, New Hampshire said. Based on those figures, the state
could be seeking $25 million to $71 million from Citgo. If an
accord’s not reached by Feb. 15 and no extension is approved,
Citgo would be reinstated to the trial.  Besides ExxonMobil and Citgo, New Hampshire also sued Shell
Oil Co., Sunoco Inc.,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Irving Oil Ltd., Vitol SA
and Hess Corp. All settled before the trial began except
ExxonMobil and Citgo. Shell and Sunoco agreed to pay New
Hampshire $35 million in a settlement announced in November.  New Hampshire has received more than $100 million in
settlements from defendants so far, according to court papers.  MTBE lawsuits have also been consolidated in federal court
in  New York  for pretrial evidence-gathering and motions. In
2009, a federal jury ordered ExxonMobil to pay  New York City 
$104.7 million after finding it liable for polluting wells in
the city. ExxonMobil has appealed.  New Hampshire’s lawyers said last week they hoped to
conclude their case by Feb. 21. ExxonMobil would then begin
presenting its case. Previously, the lawyers had said the trial
could last more than four months.  The case is New Hampshire v.  Hess Corp. (HES) , 03-C-0550, New
Hampshire Superior Court, Merrimack County (Concord).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Earle in Concord, New Hampshire,
at   sarah_earle@comcast.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  