-- Koruna Gains as Retail Data Curb Intervention Bets: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-02-05T16:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/koruna-gains-as-retail-data-curb-intervention-bets-prague-mover.html
The koruna rebounded from trading
close to its weakest level in six months as better-than-expected
retail sales data eased pressure on the Czech central bank to
sell the currency.  The koruna snapped a three-day retreat as the statistics
office in  Prague  said retail sales fell 5.1 percent in December
from a year earlier, beating the median estimate. Sales adjusted
for the number of working days slid 0.4 percent. Czech monetary
policy makers, scheduled to meet tomorrow, cut the main interest
rate three times last year and said weakening the currency may
be the next move to stem the country’s recession.  “From the central bank’s perspective, today’s figure
should be cautiously optimistic” as it signals “the worst is
over as far as household consumption is concerned,”  Martin Lobotka , an economist at Ceska Sporitelna AS in Prague, wrote in
a report to clients. “If we add the questionable efficacy of
proposed interventions against the koruna, we don’t think the
Czech National Bank should launch them tomorrow.”  The Czech currency gained 0.2 percent to 25.643 per euro by
3:24 p.m. in Prague, snapping a 0.3 percent retreat in the
previous three sessions. Yields on the government’s five-year
koruna bonds rose two basis point, or 0.02 percentage point, to
0.91 percent, generic indexes compiled by Bloomberg show.  The median estimate of 11 economists in a Bloomberg survey
was for a 5.7 percent drop in sales.  The central bank reduced the interest rate to 0.05 percent
last year.  The koruna is still down 2.2 percent this year and 4.3
percent since Sept. 17, a day before Governor Miroslav Singer
first signaled the possibility of a market intervention. The CNB
last stepped into the market to weaken the koruna more than 10
years ago, buying $438 million and 444 million euros ($600
million) in September 2002, according to data on its website.  ’Sufficient Cause’  Ceska Sporitelna recommended buying the koruna a week ago,
saying the slump was overdone and the central bank would not
intervene at levels between 25 and 26 per euro. The Czech
currency could appreciate to 25.30 per euro in three months, the
unit of Erste Group Bank AG said in the Jan 28 report.  The CNB is likely to say after tomorrow’s meeting that its
outlook on the economy has worsened and may signal it’s in favor
of selling the currency, Stanislava Pravdova, an analyst at
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen, wrote in a Jan. 31 report.  “We do not think better retail sales should give the CNB
sufficient cause to bring a halt to monetary-policy easing,”
 Jaromir Sindel , a Prague-based economist at Citigroup Inc.,
wrote in a report to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  