-- KPN Debt Risk Tumbles Most Since 2007 on Capital Raising Plan
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2013-02-05T17:54:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/kpn-debt-risk-tumbles-most-since-2007-on-capital-raising-plan.html
The cost of insuring  Royal KPN NV (KPN) ’s
debt against default tumbled the most in more than five years
after the biggest Dutch phone company said it’s raising 4
billion euros ($5.4 billion) in shares to shore up finances.  Credit-default swaps linked to KPN dropped as much as 31
basis points, or 17 percent, to 150, the biggest same-day
decline since August 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Swaps protecting Virgin Media Finance Plc’s debt
surged to the highest since July as the company confirmed it’s
in talks with  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  for a “possible
transaction.”  KPN is seeking to cut debt that has swelled to more than 12
billion euros, according to Bloomberg data, after investing 1.35
billion euros on fast-wireless spectrum in the fourth quarter.
The Hague-based company said it may use equity-linked or other
capital instruments to raise the cash it’s seeking. KPN’s 5.625
percent bonds due 2024 climbed 2.2 euro cents to 116.1 at 4:59
p.m. in  London .  “A capital raising of this magnitude is positive for
credit and would improve metrics enough for Moody’s and S&P to
take the ratings off review for downgrade/negative watch,”
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc credit analyst Matthew Baust
told clients in a note. “With such negative operating trends
this isn’t guaranteed and we would expect the ratings to remain
at least on negative outlook.”  Net Loss  KPN,  rated  BBB by  Standard & Poor’s  and an equivalent Baa2
at Moody’s Investors Service, posted a net loss of 162 million
euros in the fourth quarter, compared with a profit of 176
million euros a year earlier. The company, which also reported
declining revenue, faces increased competition in the
Netherlands after Sweden’s  Tele2 AB (TEL2B)  bought spectrum to enter the
market.  KPN  shares plunged  as much as 25 percent in Amsterdam, the
most since the start of trading in 1994, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Virgin Deal  The cost of protecting the debt of Virgin Media Finance for
five years rose 134 basis points to 384. The company’s 7 percent
bonds in pounds due 2018 fell 1.3 pence, or 1.2 percent, to
105.5 at 5.44 p.m. in London, Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show,
the lowest since Dec. 2011.  “A bid for Virgin Media would be a significant transaction
for  Liberty Global  and due to its size we would expect any deal
to take place in a ring-fenced structure,” ING Groep NV
analysts told clients in a note.  A tie-up between Liberty Global and Virgin would provide a
challenger to  Rupert Murdoch ’s  British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc (BSY)  in the U.K. pay-TV market. Liberty Global, owned by  John Malone , is seeking to expand outside the U.S. and already runs
pay-TV providers in  Germany ,  Belgium  and  Switzerland .  New Issues  Among new issues, Santander Consumer Bank AS will meet
investors before a planned sale of euro-denominated senior
unsecured bonds, a person with knowledge of the plans said. The
company is guaranteed by Santander Consumer Finance SA.  In high-yield, French medical testing company Labco SAS
plans to tap senior secured bonds due in 2018, a person with
knowledge of the deal said.  Credit Derivatives  In credit derivatives markets, the Markit iTraxx Europe
Index of credit-default swaps linked to 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings fell three basis points to 115. The
Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50
companies with mostly speculative-grade ratings declined seven
basis points to 448.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on 25 banks and
insurers dropped five basis points to 154.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  