-- KPN Plans $5.4 Billion Share Sale as Earnings Miss Estimates
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2013-02-05T17:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/kpn-to-raise-5-4-billion-as-earnings-miss-analysts-estimates.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the Dutch carrier
partly owned by  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB, will sell
4 billion euros ($5.4 billion) in shares after pouring cash into
fast-wireless spectrum.  KPN shares fell as much as 25 percent, the most since it
started trading in 1994, and closed down 16 percent in
Amsterdam, erasing about 930 million euros in market value.
Since May, when America Movil said it would increase its KPN
stake to 28 percent, a 2.66 billion-euro commitment, the stock
has slumped 47 percent, the worst performance in the 25-company
 Europe Telecommunications Services Index. (BETELES)   The former Dutch phone monopoly spent 1.35 billion euros on
spectrum for faster mobile networks in the fourth quarter,
undermining its debt-to-earnings ratio. Speed is key for
carriers as consumers flock to smartphones such as Apple Inc.’s
iPhone and handsets based on Google Inc.’s Android system to
surf the Web, download music and watch videos. KPN faces a new
challenge from  Sweden ’s  Tele2 AB (TEL2B) , which bought frequency to
enter the market.  “KPN’s financial position has been impacted by rising debt
levels combined with increased commercial investments,” Chief
Executive Officer Eelco Blok said in a statement. The capital
increase and lower dividends “will support our financial
position in the coming years,” he said.  Slim’s position on the share sale is unclear, Blok said on
a conference call today. An  America Movil  official, who asked
not to be named under company policy, declined to comment on the
billionaire’s plans.  Strategic Flexibility  The Dutch company said it may raise part of the capital
increase, which would represent about 80 percent of its current
market value of about 4.9 billion euros, through equity-linked
or other capital instruments. It will use the proceeds to
increase “strategic flexibility” and reduce debt and said it
believes the issue will “support its commitment” to maintain
an investment-grade credit rating.  “The rights issue is larger than expected,” said Frank Claassen, an  analyst  at Rabobank. “It is a heavy measure
they’re taking. The earnings are disappointing and there’s no
clear outlook,” he said.  KPN had a  fourth-quarter  net loss of 162 million euros
compared with a profit of 176 million euros a year earlier, the
Hague-based company said in a statement today. That missed the
362 million-euro profit average estimate of eight analysts
compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue and other income declined 3
percent to 3.27 billion euros, due partly to falling sales in
the Netherlands, where the market environment was “difficult.”  Increasing Competition  The company said it won’t pay a final  dividend  for 2012. It
forecast a dividend per share of 3 euro cents for 2013 and 2014
and a return to growth from then on.  To battle declining revenues and increasing competition in
its home market, the CEO is working through a companywide
overhaul that will eliminate as many as 5,000 jobs in the
Netherlands by the end of 2013.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell 15 percent to 1.12 billion euros in the
quarter. The company said the next phase of its German strategy
is expected to lead to service revenue growth combined with a
lower Ebitda margin, especially in 2013.  Credit Rating  Fitch cut KPN’s credit rating to BBB- from BBB after the
company spent almost 1 billion  euros  more than the ratings firm
expected on mobile licenses, analysts led by Owen Fenton wrote
in a report on Dec. 17. The ratings company today said the share
sale shows KPN “is committed to maintaining its investment-grade
profile,” while quarterly results show the company continues to
operate in a “challenging environment.”  The cost of insuring KPN debt against default tumbled the
most in more than five years. Credit-default swaps linked to KPN
dropped as much as 32 basis points, or 18 percent, to 149, the
biggest same-day decline since August 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  KPN’s bonds climbed, leading securities in Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Euro Non-Financial Index. Its 3.25 percent note
due 2021 rose 1.6 cents on the euro to 100.25 cents at 4:04 p.m.
in  London , the most since it was sold in July, Bloomberg prices
show.  Competition will intensify in the Dutch mobile market after
Sweden’s Tele2 took part in the frequency auction to become the
fourth network operator in the country after Vodafone Group Plc
and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit. All Dutch business
segments remained exposed to lower traffic volumes in the fourth
quarter, KPN said.  Potential Merger  Last year, Blok tried unsuccessfully to sell KPN’s Belgian
mobile-phone unit Base and ended discussions on a potential
merger involving the Dutch company’s German E-Plus wireless unit
and  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s business in Germany.  “The key takeaway for me from the capital increase is that
they have a new strategy,” said Javier Borrachero at Kepler
Capital Markets. “They want to keep all three assets, The
Netherlands, Belgium and  Germany , and want to become more
aggressive to be more competitive in the future.”  The CEO, who was promoted to the top job in April 2011,
said in October that KPN was in talks with investor America
Movil to shape cooperation efforts after Slim’s wireless carrier
obtained more than a quarter of the Dutch company’s shares in an
unsolicited bid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  