-- NBA Union Boss Hunter Should Be Fired, Ex-Treasurer Says
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-02-05T14:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/nba-union-boss-hunter-should-be-fired-ex-treasurer-says.html
Pat Garrity, a former National
Basketball Association players’ union treasurer who was ignored
four years ago when he questioned the organization’s business
practices, says it’s hard to see how Executive Director  Billy Hunter  will keep his job.  A report released on Jan. 17 by the New York law firm Paul,
Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison said Hunter placed personal
interests ahead of the association, mismanaged conflicts of
interest and failed to disclose that his $3 million-a-year
contract wasn’t properly ratified.  “If this was any CEO of a decent-sized organization, would
they be able to survive this?” Garrity, who graduated from Duke
University’s Fuqua School of Business after leaving the NBA in
2008, said in a telephone interview. “I just don’t see how they
would.”  Hunter, 70, was placed on indefinite leave by the union’s
executive committee last week. Players probably will vote on
whether to keep Hunter, a former federal prosecutor who has led
the association since 1996, during the Feb. 15-17 All-Star
weekend in Houston.  Garrity said he’s gratified that his concerns are finally
being addressed.  “Four years ago, there was enough stuff to raise questions
about judgment and ethics,” he said. “It’s disappointing that
it took another level of egregiousness for people to start
taking notice.  Union President  Derek Fisher  pushed for a review of the
association’s business and hiring practices, and the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in  Manhattan  started an investigation of the
union after Fisher pressed for the review.  Union Meeting  Garrity said Fisher was among the players who stood by at
the 2009 All-Star Game as Gary Hall, the union’s late general
counsel, told Garrity that he was retired, not an active
executive committee member and his input wasn’t welcome.
Ultimately, Hall told Garrity that security would remove him if
he didn’t leave.  ‘‘I wanted to raise questions, but was met with zero
cooperation,” the 36-year-old Garrity said. “There was no
support from the people on the executive committee. When you
have an officer and he asks the  executive director  for
information and he’s shut out, that’s inappropriate. When one
officer brings concerns to the others on the committee, you
assume others would want to hear. That was not the case,
including Derek.”  Fisher didn’t respond to an e-mail to his publicist seeking
comment on Garrity’s remarks.  Attorney’s Stand  Hunter didn’t respond to a text message seeking comment.
His attorney said after the leave of absence was imposed that
it’s questionable whether the executive committee has the
authority to take such an action.  “We believe his contract is valid and we will soon offer a
comprehensive rebuttal,” attorney Thomas Ashley said in a
statement.  Garrity said there were a number of  red flags  years ago,
including Hunter’s request for vacation pay, the hiring of the
executive director’s daughter and a proposed investment in a
bank whose directors included Hunter’s son. Hunter hadn’t
disclosed his son’s position with the bank, Garrity said.  “My intent at the time was just to raise it to the
committee, figure out what’s true and what’s a concern,” he
said. “We never got to that point because they weren’t
interested in hearing it.”  Family Purge  Hunter purged family members from the organization,
including his daughter and daughter-in-law, on Jan. 29. He also
fired Prim Capital, which employs his son.  Garrity said there were a number of things in the 229-page
 report  that were new to him. He wasn’t specific.  “My intent wasn’t to smear Billy,” Garrity said. “I
wasn’t trying to carry out a personal vendetta. I’m glad the
problems have been identified. They can fix it and improve.”  Ron Klempner, the union’s deputy general counsel, was
appointed by the executive committee to run the organization on
an interim basis.  Garrity said no one from the union has contacted him since
the report’s release.  “I don’t think anyone has my number,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  