-- Netherlands AAA Outlook Cut as Fitch Cites Shocks to Economy
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-02-06T07:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/netherlands-aaa-outlook-cut-as-fitch-cites-shocks-to-economy.html
The Netherlands had the outlook on
its top credit rating cut to negative by Fitch Ratings as the
Dutch economy suffers from a deepening housing slump and
persistent bank system woes.  The ratings company maintained the country’s grade at AAA
while removing its designation as stable, according to a
statement released yesterday in London. As reasons for the move,
it cited the level of public debt, problems at some Dutch banks
and a property-market slump which may shave a total of 25
percent off values from their peak.  “The outlook revision to negative from stable reflects
Fitch’s view that the leveraged Dutch economy has suffered a
number of shocks,” it said.  Investors often ignore ratings, evidenced by the rally in
Treasuries after the U.S. lost its top grade at S&P in 2011.The
action by Fitch comes days after the country took control of its
fourth-biggest lender,  SNS Reaal NV , for 3.7 billion euros ($5
billion). While that alone isn’t enough to trigger a downgrade,
Fitch said the move will add 1.6 percentage points to public
debt this year, reaching a total of 74.4 percent of gross
domestic product.  “The government’s multi-year fiscal consolidation plan is
challenged by the difficult economic conditions,” Fitch said.
“As highlighted by last week’s nationalisation” of SNS, “some
banking system problems persist, with three of the four major
banks having faced severe financial difficulties and needing
external support since 2008.”  Dutch 10-year bonds were little changed as of 7:56 a.m.
London time, with the yield at 1.84 percent.  Fiscal Measures  Fitch said the Dutch government probably won’t adopt
additional fiscal measures and it therefore expects a general
government deficit of 4 percent of GDP in 2013. There are still
sufficient reasons to support the current sovereign rating,
Fitch said.  “The sovereign rating is underpinned by the country’s
flexible, diversified, high value-added and competitive economy
as well as the current account surpluses and positive net
international investment position,” the ratings company said.  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg published on Dec. 17.
Investors ignored 56 percent of Moody’s Investors Service rating
and outlook changes and 50 percent of those by S&P. That’s worse
than the longer-term average of 47 percent, based on more than
300 changes since 1974.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  