-- New York Hires Fracking Geologist With Ties to Industry
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-02-06T16:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/new-york-hires-fracking-geologist-with-ties-to-industry.html
New York ’s study of potential links
between hydraulic fracturing and earthquakes may be tainted by
the selection of a university geologist and gas-industry
consultant to lead the review, drilling critics said.  Robert Jacobi was picked by the Department of Environmental
Conservation for a seismology study as part of its environmental
review of the drilling process known as fracking, Lisa King, an
agency spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. Jacobi is a University at
Buffalo professor and has advised drillers for two decades.  “It raises questions about whether the DEC is just
following the lead of industry on this or is taking their work
seriously,” Kevin Connor, director of the  Public Accountability
Initiative , a Buffalo-based group that studies ties between
business and government, said in an interview. “Is there a
pattern of regulatory capture at the DEC?”  It’s the second time the agency under Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
has picked a consultant on fracking that raised concerns. A 2011
study on the economic effects of fracking was conducted by a
firm that says it helps companies secure permits for pipeline
and gas-storage projects.  Jacobi, who has taught at the  state university  for more
than 30 years, has advised various gas drillers since 1994,
according to a resume released by the university. He has been a
senior geology adviser for Pittsburgh-based  EQT Corp ., a natural
gas drilling company, since last year.  Impartial Consultants  Consultants used by the state should be “be free of
conflict and impartial,” Kate Sinding, a senior attorney with
the New York-based  Natural Resources Defense Council , said in an
e-mail. “It is not good optics to retain consultants who are
viewed as not meeting this standard.”  Jacobi said his EQT role doesn’t pose a conflict with the
state work.  “I was contracted by EQT to provide consulting services
relating to their geology program, projects and initiatives,”
Jacobi said in an e-mail. “In the same manner, I was hired as a
consultant to provide services for the New York State Department
of Environmental Conservation.”  Jacobi said his focus has been on identifying and
predicting faults and fractures and implications for fracking
and storing carbon underground. He has won research grants from
agencies such as the U.S. Geological Survey and Energy
Department.  Premier Geologist  Jacobi has also worked for groups that oppose fracking,
such as the Concerned Citizens of Cattaraugus County in western
New York, Emily DeSantis, a DEC spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
He’s considered the premier geologist on fault lines in New York
state, publishing more than a half-dozen articles and reports
over the last decade, she said.  His findings will be included in an environmental study due
Feb. 13, DEC Commissioner  Joseph Martens  said Feb. 4 at a
legislative hearing in Albany.  “Is he independent enough to provide sound information to
regulators?” Connor said. “It’s muddied by the question of a
current financial conflict of interest.”  Martens said he asked for the seismic review after New York
City officials questioned the potential effects of fracking on
the tunnels that carry drinking water from upstate reservoirs to
the city.  ‘Independent Expert’  “We hired an outside independent expert to look at the
issue,” Martens said.  The agency also hired Gene Florentino, principal geologist
for Lancaster, New York-based  Ecology and Environment Inc ., to
work on the seismology study, King said. His company produced
the August 2011 report on economic impacts from fracking.  The company “positioned itself to respond to industry
demands for permitting well development and take away pipelines
required to move shale gas to market,” according to a
Securities and Exchange Commission filing for the year ended
July 31.  Florentino declined to comment in a Feb. 4 phone interview.  Researchers have said wastewater from fracking, which is
injected underground, may be tied to an increase in earthquakes
in the central U.S. Demand for disposal wells has increased as
fracking for gas in shale has expanded. The technique, in which
a mix of water and chemicals is shot into shale to free trapped
gas, also produces millions of gallons of wastewater for each
well.  Fracking Ban  New York has banned fracking as it studies its effects on
the environment and develops regulations. The drilling process
poses a dilemma for Cuomo, a 55-year-old Democrat, as he
balances the prospect of the type of economic development seen
in North Dakota and Pennsylvania against calls from
environmental groups that say drilling will damage drinking
water supplies and make farmland unusable.  “Governor Cuomo made a promise to let the science alone
drive his decision,” Katherine Nadeau, water and natural
resources program director for Environmental Advocates of New
York, said in an e-mail. “If he intends to keep that promise he
must empower unbiased experts openly, and honestly review
fracking’s true public health and environmental impacts.”  Jacobi served as a director of the Shale Resources and
Society Institute at the University at Buffalo, an office that
SUNY shut seven months after it opened citing ties to the
industry the college’s president said cast a “cloud of
uncertainty” over its work.  Jacobi’s resume was released by the university in a report
on the institute. It showed that from 1994 until 2008 he was a
consultant to drillers such as  Talisman Energy Inc . and Anschutz
Corp. From 2007 to 2011, he was director of special projects for
 Norse Energy Corp.   The institute released one report that found drillers in
Pennsylvania had reduced by half the rate of blowouts, spills
and water contamination since 2008.  “He was getting paid for this, and even the most well-
intentioned person can’t help but be a little biased as a
result,” state Senator  Tony Avella , a Queens Democrat, said in
an interview yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  