-- NFL TV Appeal Belies Super Bowl Audience Drop: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-02-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/nfl-tv-appeal-belies-super-bowl-audience-drop-chart-of-the-day.html
Television viewers have a growing
preference for football over other types of programming even
though the audience for CBS Inc.’s broadcast of this year’s
Super Bowl fell from a record.  As the CHART OF THE DAY shows, the average number of
viewers for games broadcast on the CBS, NBC and Fox networks
exceeded the average for prime-time shows other than sports by
154 percent last year. The gap widened from 52 percent a decade
earlier, according to figures compiled by the National Football
League and cited yesterday in a report by RBC Capital Markets.  “Football is an enormous factor” in prime-time rating
changes for networks,  David Bank , a New York-based analyst at
RBC, wrote in the report.  NBC’s ratings climbed to first place among broadcast
networks this season from last place a year earlier largely
because of the sport, Bank wrote. “Sunday Night Football” on
NBC, controlled by Philadelphia-based  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , was the
highest-rated series for any day of the week in the November
“sweeps” ratings period.  “Sunday Night Football” is the most costly prime-time
series for advertisers, according to the report. Bank cited a
price of $545,000 for a 30-second spot, exceeding the $341,000
for Fox’s “American Idol” and $331,000 for ABC’s “Modern
Family.”  News Corp. (NWSA)  owns Fox and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  owns ABC.  CBS’s broadcast of the Baltimore Ravens’ 34-31 Super Bowl
victory over the San Francisco 49ers was seen by an average of
108.4 million viewers. The figure dropped 2.6 percent from the
record audience a year ago, when the New York Giants beat the
 New England Patriots . The data, from  Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN) , was
cited by the network. Both companies are based in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  