-- Niger in Talks With Areva for Uranium Mines to Give More Funds
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-02-05T12:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/niger-in-talks-with-areva-for-uranium-mines-to-give-more-funds.html
Niger is in negotiations with  Areva
SA (AREVA)  to ensure the world’s second-biggest uranium mining company’s
operations contribute more to the nation’s income, Mines
Minister Omar Hamidou Tchiana said.  The government in Niger, the third-largest uranium-
producing nation, wants new agreements for Areva’s Somair and
Cominak mines to be more beneficial to the state without
increasing its stake or raising taxes, Tchiana said today in an
interview in  Cape Town . Agreements for the two projects expire
at the end of the year.  “We are reflecting and negotiating with Areva to find the
best way to do it,” Tchiana said. “We don’t want to increase
taxes because that risks slowing investment. We want to find the
best formula with our investors. We want to protect investors.”  Niger , a landlocked African country, wants revenue from
mining to make up 20 percent to 30 percent of the national
budget, more than its current contribution of 5 percent, Tchiana
said. The review of contracts will also affect other companies
whenever their deal expires, he said.  Somair plans to produce 3,000 metric tons of uranium
concentrate from its deposits in northwestern Niger, according
to  Areva , which owns 63.6 percent of the project. Cominak, the
world’s largest underground uranium mine, in 2011 produced 1,433
tons of concentrate, according to the Paris-based company. Areva
holds 34 percent of Cominak, the government 31 percent,  Japan ’s
Overseas Uranium Resources Development Co. 25 percent, and
Empresa Nacional del Uranio SA of Spain 10 percent.  Imouraren Operation  The talks don’t concern Areva’s Imouraren operation,
because its contract still runs for several years, Tchiana said.  Niger will this year revise its mining code to make
procedures to receive and manage permits more efficient, Tchiana
said.  “We want an attractive mining code to bring in
investors,” he said. “We will have a forum with mining
companies to get their input as well. We want to make our mining
code much more attractive and we want to resolve the problems
the mining companies have.”  France  has stationed troops at Areva’s mines in Niger,
Tchiana said. Niger has sent special forces and attack
helicopters to protect the operations, he said.  Niger was the world’s biggest uranium producer behind
Kazakhstan, Canada and  Australia  in 2011, according the London-
based  World Nuclear Association ’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  