-- Nigeria Vies for Investors as Yields Fall: South African Credit
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-02-05T14:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/nigeria-vies-for-investors-as-yields-fall-south-african-credit.html
At least five African nations
including Nigeria are planning international bond sales this
year, providing investors targeting the world’s poorest
continent with alternatives to South African debt.  The extra yield investors receive for holding Nigerian
dollar bonds maturing in January 2021 rather than similar-
maturity South African dollar debt has narrowed 74 basis points
this year to 34. Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings have lowered South Africa’s debt since
September, while S&P raised Nigeria’s rating in November.  As downgrades, labor unrest, slowing growth and a widening
budget deficit turn investors against South Africa, prospects
for other sub-Saharan African nations are improving. The
International Monetary Fund forecasts the region will expand 5.8
percent this year, from 4.8 percent in 2012. Bond sales may help
ease liquidity constraints that have deterred institutions from
participating in the continent’s debt markets, with returns on
Nigerian securities more than twice that of South Africa.  “African countries other than South Africa are on a lot
more people’s radar,”  Richard Odumodu , head of fixed-income
investments at London-based Silk Invest Ltd., which manages
about $130 million, said in a Jan. 28 phone interview. “One of
the attractions for us is that Africa is a universe that will
continue expanding.”  Doubling Up  Nigeria, Africa’s largest oil producer and biggest economy
after South Africa, plans to borrow $1 billion on overseas
markets, twice as much as in 2011, President Goodluck Jonathan
said in October, while Angola is seeking $2 billion of debt.  Ghana, which issued Africa’s first Eurobonds outside South
Africa in 2007, may sell a further $750 million, Deputy Finance
Minister Seth Terkper said in December. Rwanda, Uganda and Kenya
have also signaled they may sell international securities. Sales
the past 15 months by Namibia and Zambia drew five to 20 times
more demand than sought.  South African bonds have slumped following the downgrades,
a slide in the rand and strikes at gold and platinum mines,
which the central bank forecasts will constrain the nation’s
expansion to 2.6 percent this year and cut 2012  growth  to an
estimated 2.5 percent, the slowest pace since a 2009 recession.
The nation’s budget deficit is set to widen to 4.8 percent of
gross domestic product in the year through March, from 4.5
percent, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said in October.  Nigeria’s growth rate may accelerate to 7 percent this
year, from an estimated 6.6 percent in 2012, while the nation’s
budget deficit is set to narrow to 2.2 percent of GDP, from 2.9
percent, according to Barclays Plc’s investment banking unit.  Premium Rising  The  premium  of South Africa’s dollar-denominated securities
over U.S. Treasuries has widened 26 basis points this year to
189, compared with a 2 basis-point increase in the average
spread for emerging-market debt, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. indexes. The  premium  for Nigerian debt has narrowed 24 basis
points to 237.  Yields on South Africa’s benchmark 6.75 percent rand bonds
due March 2021 have climbed 11 basis point this year to 6.50
percent. The rand has weakened 4.4 percent this year, the worst
performer among 16 major currencies monitored by Bloomberg after
the Japanese yen. The rand gained 0.5 percent to 8.8675 per
dollar as of 4:49 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Yields on similar-maturity Nigerian naira bonds have fallen
79 basis points to 11.22 percent while the naira strengthened
1.8 percent. Borrowing costs may drop further as the nation’s
central bank cuts interest rates, according to Michael Grobler,
a fixed-income analyst at Afrifocus Securities in Cape Town.  ‘Nigeria Story’  “Despite the strong rally we like the Nigeria story,”
Grobler said in a Jan. 28 e-mailed note to clients, in which he
recommended buying the nation’s 20-year debt. Given the decline
in the country’s dollar-bond yields, local-currency debt offers
more value, he said.  S&P rates South Africa’s debt BBB, the second-lowest
investment grade and Nigeria four steps lower at BB-. Nigeria
has been battling an insurgency by the Islamist militant group
Boko Haram that’s killed hundreds of people in bomb attacks
since 2009. The group declared a cease-fire on Jan. 28.  The ratings company assesses the credit worthiness of about
16 other sub-Saharan African countries, which have an average
rating of B, five levels below investment grade yet still
considered able to meet their financial obligations.  “The big emerging-market funds are happy to deal” with
lower credit ratings in exchange for higher returns,  Steven Loubser , a Cape Town-based fund manager at Investec Asset
Management, which oversees more than $95 billion, said by phone
Jan. 30. “There is a lot more capital looking for a home.”  More Coming  Moody’s assigned Ghana a B1 rating on Dec. 20, four levels
below investment grade and the same level as Zambia and Kenya.  Just 13 of the 54 nations in Africa have sold foreign-
currency denominated debt on international markets, according to
Moody’s. Dollar funding shields investors’ from currency swings
and inflation, while giving issuers access to financing at lower
rates than at home.  “We expect the number of countries that will seek
international sovereign credit ratings will continue to grow,”
and the African bond market should continue to expand,  Konrad Reuss , head of S&P’s sub-Saharan African unit, said in a Jan. 24
interview in Cape Town. “One country that has being saying it
is interested in a rating for quite some time is Tanzania.”  Access to international capital markets should help
countries lower their borrowing costs and manage their budgets
more effectively, according to Investec’s Loubser.  “It’s probably better for them than for investors at this
point,” he said. “We are very positive on African credit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  