-- Nigerian Sovereign Wealth Fund to Expand Fivefold by 2016
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-02-05T16:28:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/nigeria-sovereign-wealth-fund-to-expand-fivefold-by-2016.html
Nigeria  plans to increase its
sovereign wealth fund fivefold to $5 billion within three years,
Minister of State for Finance Yerima Ngama said.  Differences between Nigeria’s federal government and state
governors, which have delayed additional transfers to the fund,
may be resolved soon by expanding the representation of the
states on the board of the sovereign wealth authority, Ngama
said today in an interview in London. “Once we look at the
board and say, ok, state governors, bring your own
representatives on the board, I think it will solve it.”  Nigeria, Africa’s largest oil producer, set up a wealth
fund in May 2011 to invest savings made from the difference
between budgeted oil prices and actual market prices.  Africa ’s
most populous country of more than 160 million people relies on
crude exports for more than 90 percent of foreign income and
about 80 percent of government revenue, making it vulnerable to
swings in prices.  The wealth fund, which was signed into law in May 2011 and
will start making investments next month, will help meet budget
shortfalls in the future, provide dedicated funding for
development of infrastructure and keep some savings for future
generations, according to the law establishing it.  The country’s economic output is forecast to expand more
than 6.7 percent this year, the estimate made by the
 International Monetary Fund , Ngama said. The national budget,
yet to be signed by President Goodluck Jonathan, is based on a
6.5 percent increase in the country’s gross domestic product
this year.  The government may issue a planned $1 billion Eurobond and
a $500 Diaspora Bond after the National Assembly works out
details, Ngama said without elaborating. The parliament has
already approved the borrowing plan though it still needs to
“streamline certain areas,” he said. The ministry wants to
issue the bonds in the first half of the year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in  London  at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  