-- Northern Region Cement Triples in Trading Debut: Riyadh Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-02-05T14:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/northern-region-cement-triples-in-trading-debut-riyadh-mover.html
Northern Region Cement Co. (NORTHCEM) , a Saudi
Arabian producer of the building material, tripled on its first
day of trading in Riyadh.  The stock soared to 30 riyals at the close in the Saudi
capital from the initial public offering price of 10 riyals
each, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About  234 million
shares  were traded, comprising more than half the volume traded
on the benchmark  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  today.  Saudi companies helped the region more than double share
sales in 2012 as the largest Arab economy raised $1.4 billion
from IPOs, Ernst & Young International said in December. Cement
makers in the world’s biggest oil exporter are benefiting from
about $500 billion in  government spending  on projects. The All
Share Cement Index has gained each year since 2009, including an
advance of 14 percent in 2012.  “There is a positive outlook on the cement business in
Saudi Arabia” given high demand for the building material, said
Mohammed al-Omran, a financial analyst and president of the Gulf
Center for Financial Consultancy in Riyadh.  Northern Region Cement is the 13th cement company to sell
shares in the kingdom after  Najran Cement Co. (NAJRAN)  and  City Cement
Co. (CITYC)  started trading last year, according to  data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The IPO follows share sales in the kingdom in 2012
that included Dallah Healthcare Holding, Alinma Tokio Marine
Saudi Arabia,  Takween Advanced Industries (TAKWEEN) , Al Tayyar Travel
Group,  Saudi Enaya Cooperative Insurance Co. (ENAYA)  and Saudi Airlines
Catering Co.  Northern Region Cement’s trading debut came as Asharq Al-
Awsat newspaper reported the company plans to acquire a stake in
Iraq’s Kubaisa Cement Plant this year, citing Chief Executive
Officer Saud Saad Al Arife.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  