-- Nuveen's Doll Says U.S. Stocks Will Extend Rally
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-02-05T20:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/nuveen-s-doll-says-u-s-stocks-will-extend-rally.html
U.S. stocks will extend gains from a
five-year high as corporate earnings increase and central banks
maintain policies to stimulate economic growth, said  Robert Doll , Nuveen Asset Management LLC’s chief equity strategist.  Interest rates near zero will lead investors to keep adding
to equity funds, said Doll, who works at the Chicago-based firm
that oversees $117 billion. He said he’s bullish on shares from
the U.S. and emerging markets and concerned about European and
Japanese equities.  “The fundamentals, meaning corporate earnings,
macroeconomics, delay of problems in Washington, zero-percent
return on cash, and monetary accommodation virtually everywhere
in the world,” Doll said in a television interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “They’re the
ingredients to me for stocks to go higher.”  The Standard & Poor’s Index has rallied 6.2 percent in 2013
after U.S. lawmakers reached a compromise on more than $600
billion in spending cuts and tax increases and corporate profits
reached a record. The U.S. equity benchmark is less than 4
percent away from an  all-time high  reached in October 2007.  The  Federal Reserve ’s efforts to spur growth have included
 purchases  of over $2 trillion in securities from December 2008
through several rounds of quantitative easing. The  European
Central Bank  flooded its banking system with over 1 trillion
euros ($1.37 trillion) in short-term cash beginning over a year
ago, while the Bank of England and  Bank of Japan (8301)  have each
undertaken their own stimulus programs.  Asset Allocation  Individuals last month allocated 61.4 percent of their
investments to stocks, the largest proportion since July 2011,
according to a survey by the  American Association  of Individual
Investors. That compared with 20 percent in bonds and 18.4
percent in cash, the data showed.  “The healing of the world doesn’t mean we’ve solved all of
our problems,” said Doll. “But a slow healing means  interest
rates  will creep higher.”  Losses in bond funds will spur individual investors to put
more money into equities, Doll predicted. Treasuries have handed
investors a 0.9 percent loss this year as of yesterday,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Growth
around the world is forecast to be 2 percent this quarter and
2.4 percent in the following three months, based on the median
estimate from economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “There are always risks,” Doll said. “Markets love to
climb the walls of worry, and my guess is that the positive list
is going to overwhelm the negative list.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in  New York  at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  