-- Obama Plans First Trip to Israel as President This Year
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-02-06T13:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/obama-set-to-make-first-trip-to-israel-as-president-this-year.html
President  Barack Obama  will make his
first trip to Israel since taking office in the first half of
this year, with stops planned in Jordan and the West Bank.  Obama discussed plans for the trip with Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  on Jan. 28, and among the topics for
their agenda will be the turmoil in Syria and the confrontation
with Iran over its nuclear program, White House press secretary
 Jay Carney  said yesterday.  “The start of the president’s second term and the
formation of a new Israeli government offer the opportunity to
reaffirm the deep and enduring bonds between the United States
and Israel and to discuss the way forward on a broad range of
issues of mutual concern,” Carney said at a briefing.  Carney wouldn’t disclose the date for the trip. He said the
president will travel “in the spring.”  Obama’s trip will take place “after the formation of a new
Israeli government,” Netanyahu’s office said in a text message.
Netanyahu has until mid-March to form a new ruling coalition
after his Likud-Beitenu ticket won the largest number of
parliamentary seats in elections on Jan. 22.  “President Obama very much respects the Israeli political
process,” U.S. Ambassador to Israel  Dan Shapiro  told Israel
Radio today. “He won’t intervene in elections or coalition
talks,” Shapiro said.  Red Lines  Obama visited Israel in 2008, when he was a candidate for
president. He and Netanyahu have emerged from their re-elections
facing the same differences over peace talks with the
Palestinians and dealing with Iran that divided them in the
past.  The tensions between the U.S. and Israel were evident in
September. Netanyahu, 63, called for “red lines” to be set for
military action if Iran continues to enrich uranium, while U.S.
officials argued that would limit their options. The Obama
administration has focused on tightening economic sanctions in
conjunction with European nations.  The Israeli premier told the United Nations on Sept. 27
that he would extend his horizon for a strike against Iran from
October to early this year. The next day, Obama, 51, said in a
statement that the two leaders were in “full agreement.”  Settlements Issue  Obama also has criticized the construction of Jewish
settlements in the West Bank, which Israel captured from Jordan
in the 1967 Mideast War.  After Israel took steps toward building an additional 1,500
homes on land claimed by Palestinians in December, State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said the U.S. is “deeply
disappointed that Israel insists on continuing this pattern of
provocative action.”  Obama is coming to Israel without preconditions or demands,
and is looking to consult with Netanyahu, Palestinian President
 Mahmoud Abbas  and Jordan’s  King Abdullah  on such as issues as
the peace process, Iran and Syria, Shapiro said.  Peace talks between Israel and the Palestinian Authority
broke down in September 2010 after Netanyahu refused to extend a
10-month building freeze in West Bank Jewish settlements. Abbas
said he wouldn’t negotiate unless Israel stops its construction.  “We welcome President Obama’s visit, if it signals an
American promise to become an honest and impartial peace
broker,” said  Hanan Ashrawi , a member of the Palestinian
Liberation Organization Executive Committee, in an e-mailed
statement.  “We therefore expect that this visit will rectify the
failures of the past, demonstrate a newfound political will, and
lead to urgent, substantive and serious action that will bring
the Israeli occupation of the state of Palestine to an end,”
she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  