-- Obama’s Health-Insurance Expansion Eroding, CBO Projects
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-02-05T22:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/obama-s-health-insurance-expansion-eroding-cbo-projects.html
The number of Americans projected to
gain insurance from the U.S. health-care law is eroding, by at
least 5 million people, as the Obama administration struggles to
implement the $1.3 trillion overhaul amid Republican opposition.  About 27 million people are  expected  to gain coverage by
2017, according to a report today from the Congressional Budget
Office. The CBO had  projected  when the law passed in 2010 that
32 million uninsured people would be on a health plan within a
decade, and a year later raised its estimate to 34 million.  Expectations are being pulled back as the expansion relies
on governors to build a network of insurance marketplaces and
expand Medicaid, the joint federal-state insurance program for
the poor. At least 22 Republican governors have said they’ll
refuse to participate in the health exchanges and a Supreme
Court decision lets them also opt out of the Medicaid expansion.  There is concern “about a combination of factors,
including the readiness of exchanges to provide a broad array of
new insurance options, the ability of state Medicaid programs to
absorb new beneficiaries, and people’s responses to the
availability of the new coverage,” the CBO  said .  In addition, as many as 8 million people will lose health-
care plans now offered through their employers, the CBO
estimates. After the health law was passed, the CBO projected
that about 3 million people who would otherwise have employer-
sponsored insurance would lose that coverage.  Health Exchanges  Some of the losses should be offset by enrollment in plans
offered through exchanges, the CBO said. The CBO says that 26
million people will be in exchange plans by 2018, an increase
from a maximum of 24 million in an earlier estimate.  The insurance estimates, which were part of a CBO report on
the federal budget, are “a very gentle way of saying there’s a
problem” with the implementation of the law, said  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , a former CBO director who is now president of the
American Action Forum, an advocacy group critical of President
Barack Obama’s economic and health policies.  “They know that everything they do is subject to a lot of
uncertainty,” Holtz-Eakin said in a phone interview. “If you
see a systematic drift -- more uninsured, less employer-
sponsored insurance -- what they’re saying is, ‘wow, the bad
news outweighs the good news.’”  The federal government has said it will run exchanges in
states that aren’t building their own, and all marketplaces will
be ready to begin enrolling people by Oct. 1. The law requires
most Americans to carry insurance beginning Jan. 1, 2014.  Court’s Effect  The CBO in July reduced its estimate of the insurance
expansion to a maximum of 30 million after the Supreme Court’s
ruling. Today’s revision shows the budget agency still thinks
the law will work though the implementation may be bumpy, said
 Joe Antos , a health economist at the American Enterprise
Institute who also advises the CBO.  “I think the states have proven that the slowness of
getting these things going is not some political reaction that
went away when the November election was over,” Antos said in a
phone interview. “It’s complicated, and like most big reforms -
- not just in health care, but anything the federal government
says is a big reform -- the amount of time that was allowed in
the law probably wasn’t enough.”  A spokesman for the White House, Bradley Carroll, declined
to comment on the CBO estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  