-- Hollande Urges Euro Rate Target, Sparring With Germany, ECB
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-02-05T15:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/hollande-urges-euro-rate-target-sparring-with-germany-ecb.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
called for government leaders to steer the euro’s  exchange rate ,
becoming the most powerful European official to warn that the
rising currency may deepen the recession.  Hollande broke with  Germany ’s hands-off policy on exchange
rates and set up a potential clash with the  European Central
Bank  by saying the euro area has to use the currency as an
export-promoting tool just like the U.S. and  China .  “We can’t let the euro fluctuate according to the mood of
the market,” Hollande told reporters at the European Parliament
in Strasbourg,  France , today. “We have to act at the
international level to assert our interests.”  The euro’s rise this month to a 14-month peak against the
dollar and the highest in almost three years against the
Japanese yen makes it harder for exporters to compete
internationally at a time when the economy is struggling to
shake off the debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency region slipped into recession last
year and the European Commission predicts growth of a scant 0.1
percent in 2013. Unemployment was 11.7 percent in December, the
highest since the euro’s debut in 1999.  Sarkozy Precedent  Hollande came to office last May with a pledge to put more
 growth  and less austerity into European crisis-management
policy. In publicly fretting about the appreciating euro, the
Socialist leader voiced concerns that were common with his
center-right predecessors,  Nicolas Sarkozy  and  Jacques Chirac .  “We have to determine for the medium term an exchange-rate
level that appears most realistic, that is most in line with the
state of our real economies,” Hollande said.  Less prominent political figures have been warning about
the euro’s ascent. Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker 
called the exchange rate “dangerously high” on Jan. 15 and
Belgian Finance Minister Steven Vanackere on Jan. 28 said “the
risk is real” of a “currency war” with Japan.  The euro bought $1.3532 at 3:20 p.m. London time, close to
the 14-month high of $1.3711 reached on Feb. 1. It was worth
125.84 yen, close to the 126.97 yen touched on Feb. 1, the
strongest since April 2010.  Past calls for political management of exchange rates --
including by  Silvio Berlusconi  during his time as Italian prime
minister -- have been rebuffed by countries like Germany and the
Netherlands where inflation is a greater concern. Today was no
different.  ‘Weakening the Euro’  “The goal has to be to strengthen competitiveness instead
of weakening the euro,” German Economy Minister Philipp Roesler
said after meeting French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  in
Paris, according to  Deutsche Presse-Agentur .  A broader index of 10 leading currencies bears out concerns
that exchange rates are working against euro-zone exporters. The
euro has risen 7.2 percent in the past six months, making it the
top performer. The dollar has fallen 2.8 percent, the British
pound 2.4 percent and the yen 20 percent over the same period.  The euro’s founding treaty gives governments the power to
set “general orientations” on exchange rates, as long as this
doesn’t interfere with the Frankfurt-based central bank’s
control of inflation.  ‘Exceptional Circumstances’  In 1997, the governments pledged to use this power only
“in exceptional circumstances” and have yet to publicly invoke
it. Hollande didn’t say how the governments would enforce an
exchange-rate target and said politicians don’t have the
authority to tell the independent ECB what to do.  The central bank has had a hand in boosting the euro, by
containing the debt crisis with an offer of theoretically
unlimited purchases of  government bonds  and with extra lending
to commercial banks.  Hollande said that as European countries cut costs and
wages to become more competitive, it is only logical to seek to
boost the euro zone’s overall competitiveness against the
outside world.  Europe’s crisis-management policy is “asking countries to
improve internal competitiveness while external competitiveness
deteriorates due to pressure from the exchange rate,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  