-- Money Laundering May Face Tougher Sanctions Under EU Proposals
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-02-05T12:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/money-laundering-may-face-tougher-sanctions-under-eu-proposals.html
The European Union may target banks
with fines as high as 10 percent of their annual revenue if they
fail to combat money laundering and terrorist financing.  Bank staff may also face penalties as high as 5 million
euros ($6.8 million) under proposals adopted today by the
European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm. The rules
would extend requirements for businesses to check the identity
of clients and monitor their transactions, according to an e-
mailed copy of the measures. They would also apply to lawyers,
accountants, dealers in precious stones and gambling firms.  Current EU rules suffer from “inadequacies and
loopholes,” according to the draft law. Money laundering and
terrorist financing present “a high risk to the integrity,
proper functioning, reputation and stability of the financial
system, with potentially devastating consequences for the
broader society.”  The Brussels-based commission warned last year that the EU
faces “evolving threats” that required an upgrading of its
rules against financial crime. The  Financial Action Task Force ,
an international organization tasked with co-ordinating the
fight against money laundering, has also called on governments
to toughen their laws.  The draft EU rules would force companies such as banks and
law firms to carry out checks on their customers if they carry
out transactions worth at least 7,500 euros, compared with a
15,000 euro threshold under existing EU law.  The commission plans must be approved by national
governments and by lawmakers in the European Parliament before
they can take effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  