-- Osaka Said to Plan Hiring Banks for Airport Concession in April
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-02-05T02:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/osaka-said-to-plan-hiring-banks-for-airport-concession-in-april.html
New Kansai International Airport Co. 
plans to hire financial advisers as early as in April for the
sale of an airport concession in  Osaka , aiming to raise as much
as 1.2 trillion yen ($13 billion), two people with knowledge of
the matter said.  The state-owned airport operator expects to start a global
auction of the concession next year and aims to complete a deal
in 2015, said one of the people, who asked not to be named
because the plan is private. The winning bidders would be
responsible for operating the two airports in Osaka, Japan’s
second-biggest city, for three to five decades, the person said.  The proposed deal would mark Japan’s first sale of airport
operating rights to private enterprises, paving the way for
similar sales by regional airports such as the one in Sendai
City in northern  Japan .  New Kansai, the operator of the Osaka and Kansai airports
in the western prefecture of Osaka, would use part of the
proceeds from the sale to reduce debt, said one of the people.
The company plans to hire banks with expertise in infrastructure
concession sales, according to the person.  The company plans to establish terms for the concession
sale in May and will then start meeting potential global
investors including pension, infrastructure, private-equity and
sovereign wealth funds, the official said. Norihisa Tagawa, a
Osaka-based spokesman for New Kansai, declined to comment.  The Financial Times reported in December that the airport
concession sale may raise as much as $15 billion, citing New
Kansai President Keiichi Ando.  Expansion Plans  New Kansai International Airport was formed in April 2012
through the merger of Osaka International Airport Terminal Co.
and Kansai International Airport. The Osaka airport, built at
the start of World War II, was seized by the U.S. in 1945,
according to its website.  The Osaka port resumed operations for commercial domestic
routes in 1951 and was returned to the Japanese government after
the 13-year U.S. seizure. The Kansai International Airport
opened in 1994, and added a second runway in 2007, according to
the company.  New Kansai expects to increase annual takeoffs and landings
at the two airports to 305,000 by the year ending March 2015
from 231,000 in the 12 months that ended in March 2012, while
boosting the number of passengers to 33 million from 26.8
million, according to a business plan announced in October.  The company has unveiled plans to reduce debt to less than
1.19 trillion yen by March 2015, from 1.24 trillion yen. New
Kansai aims to increase earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization to 60.5 billion yen from 42.6
billion yen during the same period.  The Miyagi prefecture government has proposed to privatize
operations of the state-owned Sendai airport, which was damaged
by the March 11, 2011, earthquake, according to its website.  Kansai International Airport was ranked No. 19 on Skytrax’s
list of the  world’s best airports  in 2012. Central Japan
International Airport in Aichi prefecture was ranked 10th, the
highest among Japanese airports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  