-- Touaregs Seen Holding Key to Peace in Mali
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-02-05T12:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/touaregs-may-hold-the-key-to-peace-in-mali.html
As  France ’s air strikes in Mali push
back Islamist militants, the challenge now is to secure peace in
the arid north by enlisting the support of nomadic Touaregs
whose bid for a separate homeland sparked the year-long crisis.  Talks with the Touaregs are considered crucial by France to
find a long-term solution for a nomadic tribe that staged four
uprisings in five decades over complaints the central government
neglects them.  “The hardest is yet to come,” French President Francois Hollande told the European Parliament in Strasbourg today. “The
Touareg problem which has lasted so long has to be dealt with.”  Interim Malian President Dioncounda Traore said he’s ready
to negotiate with the rebels such as the National Movement for
the Liberation of Azawad if they renounce separatism. Finding
common ground may prove elusive. Touareg leaders are divided on
tribal, generational and ideological lines, and the need to
establish a separate state.  A cattle-raising Berber people whose members often don’t
recognize national borders or tax laws, the Touaregs have been
romanticized in the west as the “blue men of the desert” for
their indigo-dyed cotton robes. Others have moved into
mainstream life, opening shops or taking up government jobs.  “The Touareg communities do not speak with one voice, and
the MNLA represents a small minority,” Mamadou Fadiala Ba, an
independent political analyst, said in an interview in Bamako,
the capital. “Touaregs in the south may feel some sort of
solidarity, but they strongly reject the idea of breaking up the
Malian state.”  Army Defections  The authorities in Mali, which vies with Tanzania as
 Africa ’s third-biggest gold producer, and Touareg rebels have
agreed to peace before, in 2006, only for it to collapse.  “A touchstone of the last negotiated peace was integration
of Touaregs into the security forces,” Hannah Armstrong, a
fellow at the  Institute of Current World Affairs , said in an
interview in Bamako. “Last year there were mass defections of
Touaregs to join the rebellion so the Malians will be extremely
reluctant to reintegrate them.”  The latest MNLA uprising was bolstered by fighters and
weapons from Libya after the fall of Muammar Qaddafi. Once the
insurgents defeated the Malian army and declared independence in
the north, they were pushed aside by rivals such as Ansar ud-
Din, founded by a Malian Touareg who served as a diplomat in
Saudi Arabia, and al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb. Both groups
imposed Shariah law in the north.  Islamist Rule  “There is certainly a wish of people in the north to have
a certain autonomy, yet it’s clear from their reaction to the
arrival of the French that they don’t want to be under Islamist
rule either,” Atmane Tazaghart, an Algerian who has written two
books about AQIM, told reporters in Paris on Feb. 1.  The MNLA leadership, which fled abroad after the Islamists’
push, has dropped claims of independence.  The rebellion triggered an exodus of Malians last year,
including thousands of Touaregs who found shelter in Mauritania
and Burkina Faso. Some are reluctant to return because they fear
revenge attacks, the  United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees  said last week.  “ Mali  has to negotiate with us; it doesn’t have a
choice,” Mohamed Ibrahim Ag Assaleh, a spokesman for the MNLA,
said by phone from Ouagadougou, the capital of neighboring
Burkina Faso. “We have political, economic, infrastructural and
cultural demands.”  Touareg Resentment  Resentment among Malians toward the MNLA is strong,
especially among the ethnic Songhai who live in the north,
Moussa Traore, a social worker whose mother is a Touareg, said
in an interview in Bamako.  “The MNLA has disqualified itself because in the eyes of
the Malians, they are the cause of this mess,” he said. “If it
had tried to get other northern communities on its side to press
for more development, there would be some goodwill left. But
with the crisis, that intercommunal spirit is gone.”  Mali’s tourist industry, already affected by kidnappings of
western visitors to the north, collapsed completely as the
insurgencies spread. Northern Mali is home to the desert city of
Timbuktu, a  World Heritage Site  and historic center of ancient
Islamic scholarship where retreating militants burned
manuscripts last week.  Mali’s $10.6 billion economy contracted 1.5 percent in
2012, according to the International Monetary Fund. It’s
expected to expand 4.5 percent this year, the IMF said on Jan.
28, as gold mining in the government-held south continued during
the conflict.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) 
are among the miners in Mali.  Kidal Airport  After seizing control of Timbuktu and Gao, French troops
are occupying the airport in Kidal, the last major rebel
stronghold. About 1,800 Chadian troops are entering the town to
secure it, the  French Defense Ministry  said late yesterday on
its website.  France has about 4,000 soldiers in Mali, while Africa
nations have sent 3,800 troops, it said.  The MNLA said late yesterday it  arrested  two senior
Islamist commanders, including Mohamed Moussa Ag Mohamed of the
Ansar ud-Din group and Ould Baba Ahmed of the Movement for Unity
and Jihad in West Africa, as they fled French air strikes toward
the Algerian border.  Malians of Touareg origin have served and still serve in
the army, the civil service and in top government positions,
including the vice-presidency of the National Assembly.  The remote northern region Touareg separatists consider
their homeland contains 4.2 percent of Mali’s population, with a
little more than 600,000 residents of a total of 14.5 million
people, according to the National Statistics Institute.  Revenue Competition  Many northern Touareg families are competing for revenue
generated by decades-old smuggling networks in the desert that
expanded as drugs from South America began transiting through
West Africa to  Europe , said Jolyon Ford, a senior analyst at
Oxford Analytica, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “Some wish for greater political autonomy, but do not want
to be cut off from official and illicit sources of income,”
Ford said.  The UN, France and the U.S. are pushing for elections to
replace an interim leadership appointed after a March coup by a
group of soldiers that said the army didn’t have weapons or
equipment to fight the Touareg insurgency. Traore, who will not
be allowed to stand, said this week a vote may be held before
the end of July.  Mali needs more than a vote to “solve our problems,” Ba
said. “As a society we need to first ask ourselves how we got
into this situation and find out why previous talks and peace
deals didn’t work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  