-- House Leaders Weigh U.S. Spending Bill Below $1 Trillion
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-02-05T15:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/house-leaders-weigh-u-s-spending-bill-below-1-trillion.html
U.S. House Republican leaders are
considering a stopgap measure to fund the government for the
rest of the fiscal year that could drop spending levels below $1
trillion.  The measure, known as a continuing resolution, would fund
the government through Sept. 30 at about $974 billion, well
below the current level of $1.043 trillion, Representative James Lankford, an Oklahoma Republican, said yesterday.  “It’s a serious cut,” Lankford, a member of the House
Budget Committee, said in an interview. “That’s significant.”  While not providing a precise figure, House Majority Leader
 Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, said today in an interview
that spending levels will come down.  Lankford said House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio
Republican , is running through all possible scenarios as two
fiscal deadlines near. Automatic spending cuts stemming from a
2011 budget agreement are scheduled to take effect March 1, and
legislation funding government operations expires on March 27.  A House stopgap budget that called for deep spending cuts
through the end of the 2013 fiscal year would have difficulty
passing the Democratic-controlled Senate, posing the risk of a
government shutdown when the current spending bill expires.  House Republican leaders are seeking ways to extract
spending cuts from the White House and  Senate Democrats  as the
fiscal deadlines approach.  Automatic Cuts  The stopgap spending bill being considered would be at
lower levels because  House Republicans  are working under the
expectation that automatic spending reductions, known as
sequestration, will take effect March 1.  “The sequester is here,” Cantor said in an interview
today. “The president has been absent in terms of any
willingness to discuss an alternative in terms of the reduction
in spending. The ball is in his court. We’ll see whether he’s
serious about trying to do something about the deficit.”  The automatic spending cuts of about $1.2 trillion over the
next decade would lower the fiscal year 2013 budget authority to
$974 billion, Lankford said.  Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma Republican and member
of the House Appropriations panel, said in an interview that he
doesn’t have “ any doubt” that the spending bill “will
reflect what we do on sequester.”  The House may end up replacing the stopgap funding measure
later in the year if the House and Senate reach a deal on an
alternative to the automatic spending cuts, half of which would
come out of the  defense budget , Lankford said.  ‘Better Resolution’  “Hopefully we’ll find some better resolution,” Lankford
said. He said the preferred approach would be “something more
strategic,” such as a budget blueprint that “has a plan of
where we are going to go long term.”  House Republican leaders, weakened by President  Barack Obama ’s re-election and Democratic gains in the House and Senate
in November’s election, are resigned to accepting the automatic
cuts rather than risking a deal with Obama that would mean
higher taxes. Democrats see little political benefit in
accepting Republican offers to forestall the reductions in
exchange for cuts to entitlement programs such as Medicare.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  