-- Abe Euphoria Lifts Toyota, Weaker Yen Revives Japan Inc.
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2013-02-06T00:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/toyota-raises-profit-forecast-as-yen-fuels-japan-inc-revival.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s
largest carmaker, counts on the Camry sedan and the Prius hybrid
to outsell other automakers. For profits, it’s counting on Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe and his campaign to cheapen the yen.  “Ever since the new government took control, it feels as
though  Japan  is filled with the spirit for economic revival,”
Toyota Senior Managing Officer Takahiko Ijichi said in a
briefing in  Tokyo  yesterday. “Some say that they can’t feel any
real substance in the whole ‘Abenomics’ phenomenon, but as a
result, it’s weakened the yen and boosted stock prices.”  Toyota, which yesterday raised its profit forecast to a
five-year high, is leading the revival of  Japan Inc. (NKY)  as the
weakening local currency attracts investors and drives up stocks
to levels last seen in 2008. Behind the recovery is the new
prime minister, whose calls for monetary easing have helped the
yen weaken against all other currencies since mid-November,
making Japanese products from cars to vacuum cleaners more
profitable overseas.  “Abenomics has proven to be a great plus to Japanese
companies,” said  Masayuki Kubota , who helps oversee the
equivalent of $1.8 billion at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. in
Tokyo. “The biggest result we’re seeing is in the foreign
exchange and stock market.”  Japan’s biggest manufacturer raised its forecast for net
income in the year ending March by 10 percent to 860 billion yen
($9.2 billion).  Shares Gain  Toyota  rose  4.6 percent to 4,750 yen as of 9:28 a.m. in
Tokyo trading, headed for its largest gain since Jan. 4. The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average added 2.5 percent.  Nomura Holdings Inc. raised its target price for Toyota 21
percent to 5,800 yen following the earnings announcement. The
automaker’s earnings may further outperform with the weaker yen
added to strong sales in North America and Southeast Asia,
Masataka Kunugimoto, a Tokyo-based analyst at the broker, wrote
in a report dated yesterday.  Toyota shares have gained 54 percent in Tokyo trading since
the yen began tumbling in mid-November, adding more than $50
billion in market value in that period. That’s more than  General
Motors Co. (GM) ’s total market capitalization.  The yen began tumbling in November as Abe -- then running
for office -- called for “bold monetary policy” to beat
deflation and drive down the value of the yen. The Japanese
currency slid yesterday after Bank Of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said he will step down on March 19, almost three weeks
before his term was due, accelerating a leadership transition
that may aid Abe’s campaign for aggressive easing.  Toyoda Ally  The prime minister is turning out to be an ally for Toyota
President  Akio Toyoda , who for years, struggled through natural
disasters, the humbling recall of millions of vehicles and a
local currency that had climbed to a postwar high.  Toyoda said before Abe gained power that he hoped Japan’s
next political leader would be “someone who understands what
businesses have been going through.”  The car executive, also chairman of the Japan Automobile
Manufacturers, said last month that the industry is “beginning
to see the light” as the yen extended its slide.  Relief for Japan’s automakers from the yen comes after half
a decade of unfavorable exchange rates drained profits -- Credit
Suisse Group AG estimates the total cost at 3.68 trillion yen in
the five years ended March 2012 -- and allowed South  Korea ’s
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  to gain market share. They may recoup about 1
trillion yen this fiscal year and the next based on current
exchange-rate trends, according to the broker.  Exchange Rates  Toyota revised its exchange-rate assumptions to 81 yen to
the dollar and 104 yen versus the euro. It had previously based
its annual financial projections on 79 yen to the dollar and 100
yen to the euro.  The yen traded at 93.79 against the dollar, a 2 1/2 year
low, before trading at 93.54 as of 9 a.m. in Tokyo and reached
127.42 against the euro, the lowest since April 2010, before
trading at 127.10. The currency may end the year at 93 versus
the dollar, according to the median of forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg, as Abe’s administration seeks to fight deflation and
revive Asia’s second-largest economy.  In December, the number of Japanese manufacturing jobs
declined to below 10 million for the first time since June 1961
as years of yen appreciation weakened the nation’s export
competitiveness.  Brighter Outlook  The brightening outlook for Japan’s biggest company is
spreading to its supply chain.  Denso Corp. (6902) , Toyota’s biggest
supplier, last week raised its profit forecast 16 percent to a
five-year high.  Toyota Boshoku Corp. (3116) ,  Tokai Rika Co. (6995) ,  Koito
Manufacturing Co. (7276) ,  Aisin Seiki Co. (7259)  and  Toyoda Gosei Co. (7282)  also
increased their earnings projections in the past week.  Autos aren’t alone in benefiting from the yen as companies
from  Nintendo Co. (7974)  to Japan Tobacco Inc. to sportswear maker
Asics Corp. raised their profit forecasts and  Panasonic Corp. (6752) 
reported earnings that exceeded estimates.  Such optimism comes at the expense of companies in Korea,
where the won strengthened 4.4 percent against the dollar last
quarter, more than any other major Asian currency, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Hyundai Motor Co. and smaller
affiliate Kia Motors Corp. both reported quarterly profit
declines last month and expressed concerns about worsening
exchange rates.  Market Share  The reversal of fortunes is evident in the U.S. market,
where Hyundai’s market share has dropped in three out of the
past four months to the lowest since December 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. By contrast, Toyota’s
share has risen for two straight months to the highest since May
2012.  It’s not just the U.S. where Toyota is gaining.  The maker of the Corolla outsold General Motors Co. and
 Volkswagen AG (VOW3)  globally last year, regaining the industry sales
lead after ceding it to GM in 2011. Toyota has forecast since
late December that its deliveries -- including those of its
 Daihatsu Motor Co. (7262)  and  Hino Motors Ltd. (7205)  units -- will reach 9.91
million vehicles in 2013.  For the fiscal year ending March, the company yesterday
raised its forecast for deliveries by 100,000 vehicles to 8.85
million units.  “Toyota is Japan’s largest company and its shares can be a
benchmark for all Japanese companies,” said Hirochi Nishi, an
equities manager at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo.
“Considering their conservative view on currency rate forecast,
I think we can expect Toyota’s profit to rise further.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Tokyo at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  