-- Toyota Suppliers Say Yen Drop Means Further Price Cuts Unlikely
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2013-02-05T15:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/toyota-suppliers-say-yen-drop-means-further-price-cuts-unlikely.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  suppliers said
they expect the automaker will refrain from asking them to cut
prices as a weakening yen boosts profit.  The reductions won by the carmaker over the past two years
because of the yen’s strength will probably not be maintained in
the April to September period, said Kenichi Noda, executive
managing officer at Aichi prefecture-based  Toyota Boshoku Corp. (3116) ,
an affiliate that makes auto interior parts and bumpers.  Toyota raised its annual profit forecast 10 percent
yesterday and President Akio Toyoda said last month that
Japanese carmakers were beginning to see “light” as the yen
has weakened more than 17 percent against the dollar over the
past 12 months. He had warned that the domestic industry may
collapse should the currency remain near the postwar high of
75.35 reached Oct. 31, 2011.  “With the yen now in decline, Toyota no longer has any
real cause to sustain that pressure” on partsmakers to cut
prices, Issei Takahashi and Masahiro Akita, auto analysts at
Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a report last month.  A one-yen decline against the dollar adds about 35 billion
yen ($377 million) to Toyota’s operating profit, the carmaker
estimates. Toyota makes about 45 percent of its cars in  Japan 
and has vowed to maintain domestic production of at least 3
million vehicles a year, while rivals including Nissan Motor Co.
and Honda Motor Co. shifted some output overseas to cut costs as
the yen rose.  Yen’s Reversal  The Japanese currency fell to as low as 93.18 yen on Feb.
4, the weakest since May 13, 2010. The yen averaged 85.11
between Nov. 1 and Feb. 5, compared with 77.39 in the same
period a year earlier.  The brightening  outlook  for Toyota, Japan’s biggest company
and the world’s largest carmaker, is spreading to its supply
chain.  Denso Corp. (6902) , the automaker’s biggest supplier, last week
raised its profit forecast 16 percent to 160 billion yen, a
five-year high. Partsmakers including Toyota Boshoku, Tokai Rika
Co., Koito Manufacturing Co., Aisin Seiki Co. and  Toyoda Gosei
Co. (7282)  also increased their earnings projections in the past week.  Toyota has controlled its own costs by pressing parts
makers to cut prices over the past two years after the the yen
climbed, eroding the value of overseas earnings and making it
harder for the automaker to compete with South Korean and U.S.
rivals.  Price Cuts  The parts price cuts amounted to as much as 4 percent in
fiscal years 2011 and 2012 from the previous level of 1.5
percent, according to estimates by Bank of America Merrill Lynch
and Credit Suisse. The reductions will narrow to 1.5 percent in
the year starting April 1, according to the estimates.  “Analysts’ views are based on their own take of the
situation, not decisions announced by Toyota,” said Dion
Corbett, a spokesman for Toyota. He declined to discuss price
talks between Toyota and suppliers.  Toyoda Gosei, a maker of air bags, instrument panel modules
and steering wheels, and Toyota Boshoku said they haven’t
started talks with Toyota about April-September pricing.  “We may not have to worry as much as we used to about
cutting prices, as long as the yen is weakening,” said Tadashi Arashima, president of Toyoda Gosei. “It’s natural that we
would expect pricing pressure to ease.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  