-- Palm Oil Snaps Four-Day Rally on European Debt Crisis Concerns
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-02-05T10:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/palm-oil-snaps-four-day-rally-as-crude-losses-cut-biofuel-appeal.html
Palm oil snapped a four-day rally on
renewed concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will derail the global
economic recovery, hurting demand for commodities.  The contract for delivery in April fell 0.7 percent to
close at 2,549 ringgit ($825) a metric ton on the Malaysia
Derivatives Exchange. Futures gained 5 percent in the four
sessions through yesterday, closing at a three-month high after
the Malaysian government said exports may be allowed at zero
duty for a third month in March.  Spanish 10-year government yields jumped to a seven-week
high yesterday as the country’s Premier Mariano Rajoy faces
opposition calls to resign amid contested reports about illegal
payments. Copper dropped for the first time in three days on
speculation demand will slow in Europe, which accounts for 18
percent of demand. Rubber declined from a 10-month high.  “Europe’s problems are not fully solved as reflected in
the increase in Spain’s bond yield yesterday,” said Alan Lim Seong Chun, an analyst at Kenanga Investment Bank Bhd. The drop
in crude yesterday also cut the appeal of biofuels, he said.  Oil for March delivery was at $96.42 a barrel in New York
after dropping 1.6 percent yesterday, the most since Dec. 6.  Malaysia will allow crude palm oil exports at zero duty for
another month if prices remain below the threshold of 2,250
ringgit a ton, Plantation Industries & Commodities Minister
Bernard Dompok said yesterday. The second-largest producer set
the tariff at zero in January and extended it to February in a
move to ease  stockpiles , which were at a record 2.63 million
tons in December, according to Malaysian Palm Oil Board data.  “Large stockpiles will continue to limit the potential for
a sustained market rally,”  Abah Ofon , an analyst at Standard
Chartered Plc, wrote in a report today. The average price
forecast for 2013 was cut to 2,688 ringgit a ton from 2,825
ringgit, according to the report.  Refined palm oil for delivery in September fell 0.5 percent
to close at 7,156  yuan  ($1,148) a ton on the Dalian Commodity
Exchange. Soybean oil for delivery in the same month dropped 0.8
percent to end at 8,822 yuan a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  