-- Parsing the Marriage of Russia’s Paris Hilton
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-02-05T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/parsing-the-marriage-of-russia-s-paris-hilton.html
The wedding of a 31-year-old Russian
socialite is hardly political news, unless the woman in question
is Ksenia Sobchak.  Just a year ago, Moscow’s ultimate “it” girl threw herself
passionately into the “snow revolution,” a then-powerful
movement of middle-class Russians fed up with  Vladimir Putin ’s
dictatorial tendencies. She even dated one of the most prominent
anti-Putin activists, Ilya Yashin, and suffered political
persecution -- of a kind.  Sobchak and Yashin were  dubbed  “the Russian opposition’s
Romeo and Juliet” by The Daily Beast. But late last year, they
quietly broke up after a holiday in Morocco. Now Sobchak has
married film director Maxim Vitorgan in a surprise ceremony that
invitees had thought would be just a private movie screening.  Sobchak’s trend-spotting and trendsetting powers are
undisputed in Moscow. Just as she signaled a year ago that
political protest was “in” and suddenly acceptable for the
glamorous crowd, her loss of interest in Yashin and lightning-
fast wedding show that opposition activism is boring and passé
in 2013.  Sobchak has always moved with the times. The daughter of
the late Anatoly Sobchak -- who, as governor of  St. Petersburg ,
gave Putin his first political job -- she became a symbol of new
excess in the late 1990s and early 2000s, earning herself a
reputation as  Russia ’s  Paris Hilton . There was even a certain
outward resemblance, and Sobchak underscored it by doing the
Russian voiceover of Hilton’s part in the 2006 movie “Pledge
This!”  Unlike the hotel chain heiress, Sobchak never stopped
refining her image. By the end of the 2000’s she was known as an
adherent of yoga and healthy living, as well as a society
lioness with an endless chain of high-profile beaux.  In December 2011, just as the protest wave was rising in
the wake of a rigged parliamentary election, Sobchak suddenly
decided to attend the first mass rally in Moscow’s Bolotnaya
Square. At the time, she was dating Sergei Kapkov, a top
official in the Moscow city government. He reluctantly
accompanied her to the gathering, but drew the line at the next
one, where Sobchak intended to speak.  “So I went alone, and I met Ilya,” she remembered in a
frank interview with Hello! magazine. “It was very cold, and he
let me speak before my turn. He was fifth on the list and I was
tenth, just a 30 minutes’ difference, but it mattered to me
because I was freezing and my teeth were chattering.”  Sobchak was booed: The anti-Putin crowd figured the
apolitical socialite was just trying to climb on the bandwagon.
Yet Yashin “sensed her sincerity,” as he later recounted in an
 interview  with the TV channel Dozhd.  Soon, the couple were being detained together at rallies.
In June 2012, Sobchak’s apartment was  raided  by investigators
looking into Yashin’s involvement in street fighting the day
before Putin’s May 7 inauguration as president. The activist,
who makes a meager living writing political analysis for think
tanks and private clients, was living with Sobchak by then. His
own austere quarters were deemed insufficiently comfortable for
the princess of Moscow’s jet set.  The investigators confiscated more than $1.5 million in
cash, which Sobchak apparently earned by emceeing posh corporate
events and award ceremonies. That further spurred her protest
activity. No major event passed without her impassioned
participation, and in October 2012 she was elected into the
opposition’s Coordinating Council. That same month, police
refunded the confiscated money. Coincidentally, the Sobchak-
Yashin relationship was coming to an end.  In November, the couple traveled to  Morocco  to celebrate
Sobchak’s birthday and do a photo shoot for Hello! In Sobchak’s
interview, one could already sense the differences that
ultimately killed the relationship.  “He does not understand why one needs 20 pairs of shoes
when one already has a good pair for summer and another for
winter. He comes to my place and he asks every time: ’Why do you
need so many handbags? Can’t there be just one handbag?’ He has
such wary astonishment in his eyes, as if he is witnessing a
world of crazy people with their endless bags, shoes and
discussions of fashionable designers.”  Sobchak also claimed she was “deriving pleasure” from
Yashin’s attempts to get her to tone down her extravagant look.
Apparently, the pleasure did not last long.  Yashin, for his part, claimed in the Dozhd interview that
he had “never wanted anything to do with the world of glamour”
and that he believed the “glamorous patina had fallen off
Ksenia” as she lived the simple and dangerous life of a
political crusader. That illusion, too, turned out to be short-
lived. In December, Ksenia was already seen with the worldly
Vitorgan, and Yashin started going out with a little-known St.
Petersburg actress.  When The  New York  Times  reported  the breakup earlier this
month, Sobchak’s only  comment  was an expression of pleasure at
the article’s reference to her “traffic-stopping beauty.”  When news of Sobchak’s wedding became public, the Twitter
hashtag  #СохатыйЯшин  (Cuckold Yashin) briefly became the top
trend in the microblog service’s Russian segment. Some users
pitied Yashin. Others were quick to ridicule him.  “Now, with his cuckold’s horns, he won’t fit into a Black
Maria,” user K_Chugunkin  wrote .  “Yashin’s girlfriend Sobchak has married Vitorgan. The
revolution is over,”  mocked  another user, bigboom.  The “snow revolution” had fizzled earlier, anti-Putin
marches getting thinner and thinner, the president consolidating
his somewhat-less-than-legitimate power with scare tactics and a
spate of illiberal laws. Yet if the end of the short-lived era
of middle-class protest needed a powerful symbol, Sobchak’s
return from the floundering opposition movement to her
accustomed circle of Russian celebrities and TV personalities
has provided it. The “it” girl has spoken, and life goes on as
before.  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 