-- Pennsylvania’s Corbett Pushes Pension Overhaul to Close Gap
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-02-05T18:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/pennsylvania-s-corbett-pitches-pension-overhaul-for-funding-gap.html
Pennsylvania  Governor Tom Corbett
said he wants to move new public employees to a defined-
contribution plan and scale back future benefits for current
workers to address $41 billion in unfunded pension liabilities.  The change for state and school-district employees would
save the state almost $2 billion over the next five years, he
said. School districts would save more than $1 billion over the
same period. A defined-contribution plan is similar to a 401(k).  “The entire system of state pensions has become a mountain
of debt, and the avalanche could bury our economic growth,
swallow up benefits for our elderly, education for our children
and transportation for our economy,” Corbett told legislators
today in Harrisburg. “Resolving our pension crisis will be the
single most important thing we do for decades to come.”  Pennsylvania joins states dealing with a growing pension
burden as their finances recover from the longest recession
since the 1930s. In July, Moody’s Investors Service cut the
state’s general-obligation debt rating to Aa2, its third-
highest, citing rising pension obligations that will weigh on
its economic recovery. Corbett, 63, a first-term Republican,
said pension costs will consume 60 percent of all new revenue in
the fiscal year beginning in July.  Current Workers  Ten states last year enacted significant pension changes,
according to Luke Martel, senior policy specialist at the
 National Conference of State Legislatures  in Denver.  “The severity of investment losses in the past two
recessions, slow growth in the economy and the slow recovery of
state revenues mean that average plan funding levels continue to
disappoint,” he said in an e-mail.  A handful of states, such as  Rhode Island ,  Florida , Iowa
and  Oregon , have instituted changes affecting current employees,
said  Keith Brainard , research director at the National
Association of State Retirement Administrators. He said he
expects more states to consider reducing the rate at which
benefits are earned by that group.  “You don’t generate much savings in the near term by
affecting only new hires,” he said.  In Pennsylvania, the State Employees’ Retirement System has
65 percent of assets needed to cover projected liabilities, and
the Public School Employees’ Retirement System is 69 percent
funded, according to a report from the state budget office. The
plans cover 817,000 people.  Need Cooperation  “With some imagination and some cooperation, we can find a
way to preserve our existing pensions and allow the next
generation of state employees and teachers a chance to shape
their futures,” Corbett said.  Nationwide, state pensions had a median funding ratio of
about 72 percent in 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Under Corbett’s plan, retirees and benefits already accrued
by current workers wouldn’t be affected. The formula used to
calculate future pension benefits would be reduced, although
workers could increase their contributions to keep the higher
so-called multiplier.  The wages used to determine pensions would be capped at the
Social Security base, and final salary would be the average of
the worker’s last five years.  ‘Extremely Difficult’  The retirement-benefit changes must be approved by the
legislature.  Many states are legally prevented from touching benefits of
current employees, other than adjusting future cost-of-living
increases, according to a  report  by the Center for Retirement
Research at  Boston College .  “Changing future benefits for current employees is
extremely difficult,” wrote the authors, Alicia Munnell and
Laura Quinby.  The yield  premium  for holders of 10-year general-obligation
bonds issued in Pennsylvania is close to the most since
September. An index of 10-year debt on Jan. 31 yielded 2.42
percent on average, or 47 basis points more than a gauge of top-
rated state and local securities. That was the widest since
Sept. 27. Its spread as of yesterday was 45 basis points. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  