-- Perella, Raymond McGuire, Harlem Museum: Scene Last Night
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-02-05T16:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/perella-raymond-mcguire-harlem-museum-scene-last-night.html
Joseph Perella had his smart phone
out last night at the  Studio Museum in Harlem  gala, showing a
photograph of  Raymond McGuire ’s newborn son, Leo, when Mom one-
upped him.  “He was so tiny then,” Crystal McCrary said, taking out
her smart phone. “Here’s a super cute picture at the doctor’s -
- he looks like a real human being now.”  Will Leo, now 11 weeks old, grow up to be an artist or a
banker?  “It’s too early to tell,” said Dad McGuire, global head
of corporate and investment banking at  Citigroup (C)  and the
chairman of the Studio Museum in Harlem. “He’s certainly got
the creative sentiment. My own artistic abilities are severely
limited.”  “He can be whatever he wants,” said Perella, chairman and
chief executive officer of Perella Weinberg Partners LP.  That sense of possibility is very much a part of the Studio
Museum in Harlem. Through a residency program and exhibitions of
emerging artists, the museum has supported the careers of many
black artists. Julie Mehretu, Glenn Ligon and Lorna Simpson were
all in the ballroom of Cipriani Wall Street last night, dining
on spring chicken at tables covered in black sequins and white
tulips.  Studio Museum’s director and chief curator, Thelma Golden,
came to the museum 13 years ago from the Whitney Museum of
American Art. “It’s amazing to see how all the artists have
developed,” Golden said. “It speaks to the role of the museum
in nurturing artists.”  Studio Space  Njideka Akunyil completed the residency program last year.  “I had a huge beautiful studio space looking out on 125th
Street, with 24-hour access even on Christmas,” Akunyil said.
“There was a stipend that, used carefully, was enough to live
on. I started at 10 in the morning and went ’til 11 at night. If
you put that much time in, your work will develop rapidly.”  The gala drew Thomas Campbell, director of the Metropolitan
Museum of Art, Scott Rothkopf, curator and associate director of
programs at the Whitney; and Christopher Lew, assistant curator
at  MoMA PS1 .  “What Thelma has done,” said adviser and dealer Jeanne
Greenberg Rohatyn, “is put black artists into the mainstream.
We all look to her vision.”  Along the way, the gala has evolved from an event raising
$30,000 to one raising seven figures and attracting a power
guest list. J. Michael Evans, vice chairman at  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , Charles Patton of Oak Hill Capital Partners LP,
Kenneth Chenault, chairman and CEO of  American Express Co. (AXP) , and
Star Jones were in attendance.  Gund Honored  “I’ve always loved coming to this party, the way everyone
looks, it’s a treat,” said Agnes Gund, who was honored and
spoke easily of her affection for the museum.  “Its work is as complicated and cross-cultural as the city
itself, where there are more racially mixed families, including
my daughter’s,” said Gund, an art collector, board member of
several arts institutions, and founder of the arts-education
program Studio in a School. She noted the Studio Museum’s
proximity to the Red Rooster, whose chef, Marcus Samuelsson, was
sitting at her table.  Jennie C. Jones, who was in Golden’s first exhibition,
“Freestyle,” received the Joyce Alexander Wein Artist Prize.  “I had a wall drawing in that show, and I remember an
artist told me he felt like he could hear the drawing,” Jones
said. Since then she’s become known as a conceptual sound
artist.  “Tonight is kind of a full circle moment,” Jones said.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Jeffrey Burke on  books , Frederik
Balfour on  wine .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 