-- Petronas $2.9 Billion MISC Buyout Bid Too Low, Investors Say
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-02-05T09:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/petronas-2-9-billion-buyout-bid-for-misc-too-low-investors-say.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd.’s 8.8 billion
ringgit ($2.9 billion) buyout offer for  MISC (MISC)  Bhd.  undervalues 
the world’s second-largest liquefied natural gas shipping
company, two minority shareholders said.  Penang Development Corp., which claims to own 1.3 percent
of MISC, has written to request meetings with the heads of the
shipper’s two biggest shareholders, Petroliam Nasional and
Employees Provident Fund, according to copies of the letters to
the media. The offer price of 5.30 ringgit per share is “on the
low side,” said a separate e-mail from Pacific Mutual Fund Bhd.,
which owns 0.1 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The price offered for MISC apparently undervalues the
assets and businesses of the company and its future prospects,”
Lim Guan Eng, Penang Development’s chairman, said in the letter
to Petroliam Nasional Chief Executive Officer Shamsul Azhar Abbas. The bid is below share price targets at some investment
banks, including KAF-Seagroatt & Campbell Bhd. which has an
estimate of 6.80 ringgit, he said.  MISC completed a rights issue at 7 ringgit per share in
February 2010. The stock subsequently tumbled 44 percent before
last week’s offer as the company booked losses and exited the
liner industry. It rebounded 17 percent yesterday to 5.22
ringgit, the steepest increase in 14 years.  “Long-term funds may deem the offer not attractive
enough,” Ahmad Maghfur Usman, an analyst at OSK Holdings Bhd.,
wrote in a Feb. 4 report, advising investors to reject the bid.
“The upside potential on MISC is worth the wait given that its
earnings will continue to improve following its exit from the
liner business. Impatient shareholders may opt to take up the
offer and exit.”  Premium Offered  Petronas, as the energy company is known, already owns
almost  63 percent  of MISC shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A buyout would provide it with greater flexibility in
deciding MISC’s strategic direction, the group said last week.  MISC rose 0.6 percent to close at 5.25 ringgit in Kuala
Lumpur today. The offer price is a 19 percent premium over the
stock’s last traded price of 4.45 ringgit before the Jan. 31 bid,
a level last seen in April 2012.  Penang Development, a unit of the Penang state government,
said it owns MISC shares worth about 300 million ringgit at the
offer price. It’s been a shareholder since 1975, said Lim, also
chief minister of the opposition-controlled state.  Lim expressed his concern in separate letters to Petronas’
Shamsul and Employees Provident Fund Chief Executive Officer
Azlan Zainol, copies of which his office e-mailed to the media.  The Employees Provident Fund,  Malaysia ’s biggest pension
fund, owns 9.7 percent of the shipper, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. EPF isn’t part of Petronas’ buyout bid.  “The offer price is on the low side for investors with
longer term investment horizons as we expect MISC’s earnings to
bottom in 2012 and start recovering in 2013 and 2014,” said
Pacific Mutual, a Kuala Lumpur-based fund which manages about
1.8 billion ringgit.  MISC’s  net income  is forecast to surge 78 percent to 1.17
billion ringgit in 2013, according to the average of 15 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. This compares with projected
net income of 656 million ringgit this year.  Azman Ibrahim, a spokesman for Petronas in  Kuala Lumpur ,
wasn’t immediately available for comment when e-mailed and
phoned at his office today.  MISC operates the world’s second biggest fleet of LNG ships
after Qatar Gas Transport Co., according to Clarkson Plc, the
world’s largest shipbroker. The group shuttered its container-
ship business last year to focus on LNG tankers after the cargo-
box unit posted $789 million of losses over three years due to
global overcapacity and falling rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers in Singapore at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  