-- Philippine Inflation Quickened to Three-Month High in January
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2013-02-05T01:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/philippine-inflation-quickened-to-three-month-high-in-january.html
Philippine inflation accelerated to a
three-month high in January as higher taxes boosted prices of
alcoholic beverages and tobacco, limiting the central bank’s
scope to reduce  interest rates  further.  Consumer prices  rose 3 percent from a year earlier, after
a previously reported 2.9 percent advance in December, the
 National Statistics Office  said in Manila today. The rate
matched the median in a Bloomberg News survey of 17 economists.  “Inflation numbers will continue going up as economic
growth strengthens,” Tohru Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi
Life Research Institute Inc. in  Tokyo , said before the report.
“This could limit the central bank’s ability to keep rates
low.”  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas  held its benchmark rate at a
record-low last month while cutting rates on special deposit
accounts to help curb capital inflows that boosted the peso and
drove stocks to a record yesterday.  Gross domestic product  rose
6.8 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier.  The peso slipped 0.1 percent to 40.638 against the dollar
at 9:11 a.m. in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.  The central bank cut its forecast for price gains this year
to 3 percent from 3.1 percent. Governor Amando Tetangco said
last month January’s inflation rate would account for the impact
of higher excise taxes on tobacco and liquor products.  The  core inflation  rate was 3.6 percent in January, today’s
release showed. Alcoholic beverages and tobacco costs rose 17.3
percent from a year earlier, compared with a 5.1 percent gain in
December. Housing and fuel climbed 3.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in  Manila  at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  