-- Picasso’s Portrait of Lover Stars in $190 Million Auction
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2013-02-06T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/picasso-lover-portrait-sells-for-44-8-million-in-london.html
Paintings by  Pablo Picasso ,  Claude Monet  and  Joan Miro  starred in a $190 million auction that
showed a prevalence of wealthy buyers for Impressionist and
modern art, provided works are fresh to the market.  A 1932 Picasso painting of his lover Marie-Therese Walter
sold for a top price of 28.6 million pounds ($44.8 million) with
fees at  Sotheby’s  in London last night. Monet’s 1885 snow scene
“Le Givre a Giverny” was bought for 8.8 million pounds.  After decades of intense trading, the market for modern and
Impressionist art suffers from a shortage of high-quality works
that haven’t been seen at auction before, dealers said.
Unusually, two-thirds of the 61 lots at this auction were new to
the saleroom, triggering more intense levels of demand.  “There were more fresh works than I’ve seen at an
Impressionist auction for a while,” said  Morgan Long , director
of art investments at the London-based  Fine Art Fund . “The
resale market is really difficult at the moment. There’s very
little around that hasn’t been seen before.”  Picasso’s sensuous “Marie-Therese” paintings are among the
art market’s most coveted trophies. The Sotheby’s canvas, “Femme
assise pres d’une fenetre,” came from a European private
collection. It had a formal valuation of 25 million pounds to 35
million pounds, based on hammer prices.  Guaranteed to sell courtesy of a third-party “irrevocable”
bid, it was bought by the guarantor, represented by  Patti Wong ,
chairman of Sotheby’s Asia. The work had last been seen on the
auction market in 1997, when it sold for $7.5 million.  Asian Bidders  “It was a painting for someone who was new to the market,”
said the Paris-based dealer  Christian Ogier . “A pleasant, not
great Picasso. This was one of those occasions where Asian
bidders played a major role in a London auction.”  The Monet, bought by a telephone bidder, set an auction
record for a snow scene by the artist. It was one of five
Impressionist paintings from the estate of the Earl of Jersey,
who had acquired the works more than 60 years previously,
advised by his second wife, the Hollywood actress Virginia
Cherrill.  Four out of the five Jersey lots sold, raising 14.5 million
pounds against a low estimate of 6.9 million pounds.  Alfred Sisley ’s 1874 “The Thames with Hampton Church” contributed 1.9
million pounds, double the low valuation.  Monet’s water-lily painting “Nympheas avec reflets de
hautes herbes,” dating from 1914-17, had been originally
estimated at 12 million pounds to 18 million pounds. Stamped
with the artist’s name rather than signed, it was sold to a
single telephone bid of 9 million pounds. This indicated that
the seller’s minimum reserve price was lowered before the sale.  Wallach Miro  Miro’s 1945 canvas “Femme revant de l’evasion,” related to
the Spanish Surrealist artist’s “Constellation” series of a few
years earlier, was entered from the U.S.-based collection of
 Miriam and Ira D. Wallach.  Estimated at 8 million pounds to 12 million pounds, the
Miro also carried a third-party guarantee and was bought for 8.4
million pounds in the room by one of the Nahmad family of
dealers.  Surrealism, a movement that has been known to generate 
rarities with “crossover” appeal to buyers of contemporary art, 
has been one of Impressionist and modern art's few growth areas.  Sotheby's concluded the auction with a separately 
catalogued section of 21 Surrealist works, its first such 
offering since February 2002. In recent years, the art movement 
has been the specialty of  Christie’s International  in London.  Surrealist Collector  Here the 1936 Miro painting “Le fermier et son epouse” sold 
for 5.9 million pounds, against an upper estimate of 7.5 million 
pounds. It had been entered by a U.S.-based collector who'd paid 
$10.4 million for the work at auction in November 2007 at the 
height of the last art boom.  The Surrealist section raised 16.7 million pounds, with all 
but three of the works selling.  The evening’s bidding earlier included 14 million pounds 
for three drawings by  Egon Schiele . These were put on sale by 
the Leopold Museum in Vienna to settle the restitution claim 
over its 1914 Schiele painting “Houses by the Sea.”  A 1914-15 pencil, gouache and watercolor study of Schiele 
and his lover Walburga (Wally) Neuzil in an embrace was the most 
highly valued, estimated at 6.5 million pounds to 8.5 million 
pounds. This was bought by Sotheby's Wong for a client at 7.9 
million pounds.   Self Portrait  A 1914 self-portrait sold to a telephone bidder for 5.1 
million pounds against a low estimate of 1.8 million pounds.  An erotic 1918 line drawing of a girl lying on her back 
sold within estimate for a further 1 million pounds.  The other main surprise of the evening came with the 7.8 
million pounds given by another telephone bidder for an  Edgar Degas  pastel of a nude woman drying herself after a bath. It had 
been valued at 2.5 million pounds to 3.5 million pounds.  “The Degas was a great thing, as was one of the Schieles,” 
said the London-based dealer  Richard Nagy , who underbid the 7.9 
million-pound Leopold drawing. “It was business as usual 
tonight. Good things that are fresh to the market sell well.”  Sotheby’s total of 121.1 million pounds with fees was the
company’s second highest for an Impressionist sale in London. It
beat a low estimate of 103.1 million pounds, with 85.2 percent
of the lots successful. The equivalent sale last February raised
78.8 million pounds.  ( Scott Reyburn  writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on London theater
and  Ryan Sutton  on food.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 