-- Pimco Sees Spain Bond Risk Rising on Rajoy Graft Allegations
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-02-05T07:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/pimco-sees-spanish-bond-risk-rising-on-rajoy-graft-allegations.html
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy’s battle
to rebut corruption allegations is adding to the risk of holding
Spanish government debt, said Andrew Bosomworth, managing
director at Pacific Investment Management Co.  “There is uncertainty as to the continuation of the
government’s policies and its leadership,” said Bosomworth in a
phone interview yesterday. “At least some questions remain
unanswered. That leads to uncertainty in the market.”  The risk premium on Spanish 10-year debt jumped 29 basis
points to 382 yesterday, the biggest one-day gain since
September, while the country’s benchmark stock index, the Ibex-
35, dropped 3.8 percent to the lowest close since Dec. 10.  Rajoy on Feb. 2 denied allegations by El Pais newspaper
that he received some 25,000 euros ($34,000) a year from a
secret fund run by the former treasurer of the governing
People’s Party, Luis Barcenas. El Pais reproduced what it said
was Barcenas’s handwritten ledger showing payments to the
premier as well as colleagues including former  Bankia SA (BKIA) 
Chairman Rodrigo Rato and party chief Dolores de Cospedal.  “Everything there referring to me and my party colleagues
is not correct, except some things that have been published in
certain media,” Rajoy said at a joint press conference with
German Chancellor Angela Merkel yesterday. “It’s totally and
absolutely false.”  Tax Probe  Cospedal denied receiving payments in a press conference
last week and Rato’s lawyer, Ignacio Ayala, declined to comment
through his assistant when contacted twice by Bloomberg.  Spain’s public prosecutor asked the tax agency to hand over
records for the PP going back to 2000, El Pais reported today,
citing people involved in the legal process without identifying
them. The anticorruption unit of the prosecutor’s office also
plans to call Barcenas as a witness, the newspaper said.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  gave Rajoy her backing
yesterday at a joint press conference with the Spanish premier
in Berlin. The leaders met to discuss their positions before EU
budget negotiations scheduled for Feb. 7 and 8 in Brussels.  “I’m convinced that the Spanish government and Mariano
Rajoy as prime minister can resolve this task, and  Germany  will
help him with all of our strength,” Merkel said at a press
conference in Berlin alongside Rajoy yesterday.  ‘Strength and Courage’  El Mundo newspaper first turned the focus on PP funding
with a Jan. 18 report that said Barcenas handed out monthly cash
payments of as much as 15,000 euros to senior party officials.  The allegations dogging the prime minister have opened up
another front for an administration already struggling to rein
in its  budget deficit , clean up the banking system and restart
the economy in the face of mounting push-back from voters.  “I have the same appetite, hope, strength and courage as I
had when I took office,” Rajoy said yesterday, repeating his
denial of the accusations. “The PP government is stable.”  Rajoy’s popularity has plunged amid mounting reports of
party corruption. Support for the PP dropped to 24 percent from
30 percent a month earlier in a poll by Metroscopia published by
El Pais on Feb. 3, wiping out the party’s advantage over the
main opposition Socialists.  The United Left, the coalition including former communists
that polled at 6.9 percent in the 2011 election, had backing of
15 percent in the El Pais survey and the Union for Democratic
Progress was at 14 percent. Metroscopia interviewed 1,000 people
between Jan. 30 and Feb. 1 and the margin of error was 3.2
percentage points.  “We are not seeing voters move from the center right to
the center left -- we are seeing them move from the center right
to the extremes,” Bosomworth said. “That does not auger well
for political stability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  