-- PLDT Rises to 5-Year High After Outsourcing Sale: Manila Mover
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2013-02-05T10:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/pldt-rises-to-5-year-high-after-outsourcing-sale-manila-mover.html
Philippine Long Distance Telephone
Co. (TEL) , the nation’s biggest company by market value, rose to the
highest in about five years after agreeing to sell a controlling
stake in its outsourcing unit to CVC Capital Partners Ltd.  The  telecommunications company  climbed 1.1 percent to 2,912
pesos at the close of trading, the highest since Feb. 21, 2008.
The carrier has jumped 15 percent this year, boosting its market
value to $15.5 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  PLDT expects to get more than $300 million from the sale of
the stake in SPi Global Holdings Inc., President Napoleon Nazareno said in a mobile-phone message today. The Makati City,
Philippines-based company will also keep 20 percent of the unit,
letting it benefit from possible growth under the new owner.  “CVC’s entry could bring the business process outsourcing
business to a higher level,” said  James Lago , head of research
at Manila-based PCCI Securities Brokers Corp. “That has been
elusive under PLDT.”  The phone operator will also invest in Asia Outsourcing
Gamma Ltd., the CVC unit buying SPi Global, it said in a
statement. SPi offers services including call-center operations
and help-desks.  “The transaction announced today represents an opportunity
for us to realize attractive returns for the benefit of the PLDT
Group and its stakeholders,” Chairman  Manuel Pangilinan  said in
the statement.  Asia Outsourcing will use UBS AG to help it arrange a loan
of about $200 million to aid in the financing of the acquisition,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net  