-- Politician Fondles Writer in Grim Detroit Autopsy: Books
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2013-02-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/politician-fondles-writer-in-grim-detroit-autopsy-books.html
Reporting on city politics isn’t
supposed to include having a city councilwoman squeeze one’s
nether parts.  After a few pages of  Charlie LeDuff ’s “ Detroit: An
American Autopsy ,” you get used to surprises. It’s a hard-eyed
look at some of the recent villains and victims of a city
battered for half a century by political corruption, racial
strife and industrial collapse. Even the light moments have a
dark side.  LeDuff, a former  New York  Times reporter who was part of a
team that won a Pulitzer Prize for a series about race, returned
to his native town in March 2008 after a 20-year absence and
took a job with the  Detroit News . He has a stake in the story.  Members of his immediate family, which has Michigan roots
back to the early 18th century, still struggle to make a life in
Detroit. So he combines heart with an Elmore Leonardesque ear
and eye for hard-nose, hard-luck characters in real dramas. Some
of the dialogue seems lifted right from Leonard.  The same talent for getting inside lives on the sidelines
was showcased in the profiles of LeDuff’s “ Work and Other Sins:
Life in New York City and Thereabouts ” (2004) and in the blue-
collar travelogue of “ US Guys: The True and Twisted Mind of the
American Man ” (2007). The latter’s  Detroit  chapter shadowed one
of the best homicide detectives in the murder capital of the
U.S., Mike Carlisle, who proves useful to the new book.  Empty Lots  Besides murder, Detroit claims downside superlatives for
arson, poverty, unemployment, illiteracy, foreclosures,
segregation and mayoral scandal, LeDuff writes. About 250,000
people fled the city in the first decade of this century.
“Empty lots are returning to prairie and woodland as the city
depopulates.”  Helping the city achieve top marks in the wrong places is a
colorful cast, including: Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick and his
byzantine tale of scandal and indictments; a smooth-skulled
political operative named Adolph Mongo; and a “voluptuous”
city councilwoman named Monica Conyers, the aforementioned
fondler, who failed the bar exam four times and checks LeDuff’s
testicles to see if he’s wearing a wire.  The story starts with a man frozen in ice at the bottom of
an abandoned warehouse’s elevator shaft. Only his shoes are
sticking out. An observer’s shocked reaction is: “I can’t
believe he’s still got his shoes.” The Popsicle turns out to be
related to Otis Redding.  Fireman’s Death  LeDuff digs into the dead man’s life when he isn’t bird-
dogging city-contract shenanigans that leave the fire department
for the nation’s arson capital short of good equipment. The
criminal death of a fireman will also weave through the book and
culminate in a stirring trial scene.  The city’s reputation for youths at risk earned it a
mention in President  Barack Obama ’s second inaugural address,
along with Appalachia and Newtown, as places where children must
be kept “safe from harm.” Visiting the mother of a high-school
senior named Chaise killed in a mistaken drive-by, LeDuff sees
the remains of another son, shot in the head at 14, in an urn on
the mantel and the space already cleared for Chaise’s urn.  “‘That’s a hell of a pair of bookends,”’ he says. The
mother replies: “‘You know? I was thinking that.”’  Family Tragedies  His own family’s story includes a streetwalking sister who
died while riding with a john and whose daughter OD’d six weeks
after LeDuff returned to Detroit. (Another, very different
revelation is just too juicy to spoil.)  LeDuff can be pugnacious, obnoxious and self-righteous, all
useful qualities for journalism, but his “Detroit” lives well
outside the conventional Fourth Estate (and unfortunately
eschews notes or index). He calls it “a book of reportage” and
“a memoir of a reporter returning home” in the same paragraph.  He doesn’t distance himself from anything. Check out the
author on the dust jacket -- the front cover, not the back flap
-- looming or mourning over the word “Detroit,” looking like
the day-job version of a weary Bruce “Born in the U.S.A.”
Springsteen.  At the end, as LeDuff stands in neck-high grass in the
abandoned lot where his sister died, a fawn startles him and
seems to conjure the possibility of hope. The feeling dims
somewhat with the book’s closing portfolio of black-and-white
Detroit images shot by  photographer  Danny Wilcox Frazier and as
bleak as any of LeDuff’s painfully drawn pictures.  (For a slightly rosier view and more conventional
journalism, try Mark Binelli’s “ Detroit City Is the Place to
Be: The Afterlife of an American Metropolis .” It came out in
November and covers roughly the same recent years as LeDuff. It
looks at signs of improvement, from urban farming to vanguard
artists to technology investment.)  “Detroit: An American Autopsy” is published by Penguin
Press (286 pages, $27.95). To buy this book in  North America ,
click  here .  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Patrick Cole  on philanthropy and
 Mike Di Paola  on preservation.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 