-- Posco India, ING 401(k)-Trading, Ticking Up: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-02-05T13:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/posco-india-ing-401-k-trading-ticking-up-compliance.html
India’s Odisha state resumed land
acquisitions to enable  Posco (005490) , Asia’s third-largest steelmaker,
to begin building a  $12 billion  steel plant, a project delayed
for more than seven years by farmer protests and bureaucracy.  The government of the eastern state Feb. 3 started the
process of procuring 700 acres, adding to the 2,000 acres
already bought, Satya Kumar Mallick, the district collector of
Jagatsinghpur, the site of the plant, said yesterday in a phone
interview. The land will be handed over to the South Korean
steelmaker once the acquisition is completed, he said.  The  factory , billed as the biggest direct foreign
investment in India, has been delayed because farmers have
refused to vacate the state-owned land they have occupied for
generations. A resumption of the acquisition process signals the
government’s commitment to revive stalled projects and an
economy that the finance ministry forecasts may grow at the
weakest pace in a decade.  Local farmers and villagers, including women and children,
Feb. 3 protested against the proposed steel mill outside
Gobindpur village as the state team prepared to enter the
proposed site for land acquisition, Prasanth Paikare, a
spokesman for opposition group Posco Prathirodh Sangram Samiti,
said yesterday in a phone interview. A large number of policemen
used force to curb the peaceful protests, he said.  Posco is still waiting for a permit from the environment
ministry before it can start building the plant. An earlier
clearance was suspended for further environmental review.  Compliance Policy  Stock Ticks Are Focus of SEC Meeting on Aid for Emerging Firms  Investors, exchanges and other market participants will
tell the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that changing
“tick size” for some stocks can help fuel growth by making it
easier for emerging firms to go public.  Tick size, the minimum trading increment for stocks, are
scheduled to be the focus of a roundtable discussion led by SEC
staff at the agency’s headquarters in Washington today. Three
panels will examine issues including whether larger increments
for shares of smaller companies would increase trading activity
and lead to more initial public offerings.  Following the roundtable, SEC commissioners may consider a
pilot study of larger tick sizes for selected stocks, according
to a study the agency’s staff issued in July.  Stocks of smaller companies tend to trade more lightly
because they have fewer shares available to the public.
Incentives to buy and sell the stocks were further reduced by a
series of SEC decisions between 1997 and 2001, David Weild of
Grant Thornton LLP wrote in public comments to the agency.  While the SEC’s 2001 mandate for “decimalization,” or
trading in decimals instead of fractions, reduced the cost to
buy or sell shares, it also reduced incentives for investment
banks to make markets in lightly-traded stocks. Critics of
decimalization point to a sharp decline in the number of initial
public offerings since 2001.  Under a 2012 law, the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act,
the SEC is charged with deciding whether tick sizes for emerging
growth companies should be higher than one cent but lower than
10 cents.  The SEC plans to use the roundtable to solicit views on how
it would structure a variable-tick pilot program, according to a
study issued by SEC staff in July. The study declined to
recommend new rulemaking to mandate larger tick sizes without
further research.  For more, click here.  Financial Accounting Foundation Reviews 1992 Income-Tax Standard  The  Financial Accounting Foundation  will review the 1992
income-tax Standard, it said in statement yesterday.  The Standard sets accounting and reporting standards for
the effects of income taxes that result from organizations’
activities during current and preceding years, according to the
FAF statement.  The topic of accounting for income tax was chosen for a
post-implementation review because it meets several PIR
criteria, FAF said in the statement. Taken into consideration in
selecting the topic for PIR was the “significant change in the
accounting for income taxes” represented by the 1992 Standard
and the how it “affected a wide range of organizations.”  Compliance Action  ING to Pay $5.8 Million in 401(k) Trading Disclosure Accord  An  ING Groep NV (INGA)  unit that administers 401(k) retirement
plans agreed to pay $5.8 million to settle allegations it didn’t
tell clients that it would pocket market gains on trades that
were delayed.  ING Life Insurance & Annuity Co., a Windsor, Connecticut-
based unit of the largest Dutch financial-services company, will
pay $5.25 million to about 1,400 retirement savings plans and a
penalty of $524,509 to the U.S. government, according to a
settlement disclosed yesterday by the Department of Labor.  “Our longstanding policy has been to put customers in the
position they would have been in had a processing error never
occurred,” Joe Loparco, a spokesman for Amsterdam-based ING,
said in an e-mail. “We are very pleased to have resolved this
matter with the Department of Labor in a way that benefits our
client plans and participants, and various stakeholders.”  ING must now disclose in contracts with 401(k) clients its
practice of keeping gains on transactions that are incorrect or
delayed, according to the settlement. Current plan clients will
have 30 days to object to the policy. The company also will
report at least once a year the amount of any gains it retained.
The Labor Department said it began investigating ING’s practice
in 2007 and the settlement involves transactions from 2008
through 2011.  VeriFone Says CEO Was Subject of Trading Inquiry, Now Concluded  VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY)  said Chief Executive Officer Douglas
Bergeron’s trading was the subject of inquiries by the U.S.
Attorney and Securities and Exchange Commission, which ended
their probes without action.  Following a story in the Wall Street Journal, the company
received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the
Southern District of New York regarding Bergeron’s trading of
VeriFone stock during a specific time frame, according to a
regulatory filing yesterday. VeriFone, the largest maker of
credit-card terminals, also got a request for information from
the staff of the SEC, the company said in the filing.  The San Jose, California-based company said it cooperated
with the inquiries and provided information to support its view
that Bergeron’s actions were in compliance with all laws and
regulations, as well as VeriFone’s own trading policies.  Barclays Sets Aside Additional $1.6 Billion on Misselling  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets,
said it will set aside an additional 1 billion pounds ($1.6
billion) to cover misselling of payment-protection insurance and
other products.  The bank will reserve 600 million pounds for PPI redress,
bringing provisions to compensate customers who were sold the
insurance on loans unnecessarily or without their knowledge to
2.6 billion pounds, the London-based  company  said in a statement
today. It also increased provisions for interest-rate hedging
products by 400 million pounds as of the end of 2012, bringing
the total to 850 million pounds, the highest for any U.K. bank.  Barclays has been under intense scrutiny since it was fined
a record 290 million pounds in June for attempting to manipulate
the London interbank offered rate and other benchmark  interest
rates , with the lender’s three top executives departing.  Barclays will report full-year results on Feb. 12 with
Jenkins updating investors on the bank’s strategy on the same
day.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  signaled in November
that lenders may need to make bigger provisions for future loan
losses, the cost of regulatory fines and customer redress. He
asked regulators to report back in March on how banks should
comply.  The additional PPI charges follow a “higher-than-
anticipated response rate to pro-active mailings” in the fourth
quarter, with 1.6 billion pounds in provisions used by the end
of 2012, according to the statement.  For more, click here.  Courts  IBM Judge Won’t Drop Demand for Future Reports in Bribe Case  The federal judge overseeing a settlement between
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and U.S. regulators over
alleged foreign bribes said he won’t drop demands for reports of
possible wrongdoing by the company.  U.S. District Judge Richard Leon, who refused to accept the
deal the company struck with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, denied IBM’s request to alter a requirement that he
be told about any future law enforcement or administrative or
probes. He agreed to narrow his insistence that IBM tell him of
accounting violations to include only those involving payments
covered by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  Leon said in December there’s a growing awareness among
federal judges of the need for more rigorous review of corporate
settlement agreements. Even so, his extended challenge to an
agreed-upon settlement between a company and the government is a
rare occurrence.  IBM, based in Armonk, New York, said in March 2011 that it
had settled with U.S. regulators over allegations that it bribed
Chinese and South Korean officials to win at least $54 million
in government contracts. Leon, who has had the case under review
for 23 months and must sign off on it before it becomes
effective, said he won’t accept the reporting terms worked out
between the government and IBM. He wants continuing disclosure
on a broader range of possible wrongdoing than the company is
willing to turn over.  The company, without admitting or denying wrongdoing,
agreed in 2011 to pay $10 million in disgorgement and penalties
to settle alleged violations of the books-and-records and
internal-control provisions of the FCPA.  Yesterday, Kyle DeYoung, a lawyer for the SEC, told Leon
that he was optimistic that a resolution could be reached.  The case is SEC v. International Business Machines Corp.,
11-cv-00563, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  For more, click here.  Galleon’s Far Recorded Rajaratnam to Aid Probe, U.S. Says  Former hedge-fund manager Ali Far provided “substantial
assistance” to the U.S. by secretly recording conversations
with Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam as well as
three others, prosecutors said.  Far, who worked for Galleon from 1999 to 2007, helped the
U.S. bring cases against Rajaratnam, Ali Hariri, a former
Atheros Communications Inc. vice president, and  Adam Smith , an
ex-Galleon trader, Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky said in
a sentencing memo filed yesterday in Manhattan federal court.  Far left Galleon to start Spherix Capital LLC with Richard
Choo-Beng Lee. During his time at both funds, Far solicited
illegal tips from inside sources, prosecutors said. Both men
were approached by the Federal Bureau of Investigation in April
2009 and agreed to cooperate in the then-covert probe of
Galleon, Brodsky said.  In a probe of insider trading tied to the expert-networking
firm Primary Global Research LLC, Far helped prosecutors and FBI
agents build cases against Mark Anthony Longoria, a former
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  employee, and Jason Pflaum, a former
analyst with Barai Capital Management LP, according to the U.S.  Far pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud in
October 2009 and is scheduled to be sentenced Feb. 11.  The case is U.S. v. Far, 09-cr-1009, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Former RBS Head CDO Trader Sues for Unfair Firing at Tribunal  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s former head trader for
collateralized debt obligations is suing for unfair dismissal at
an employment tribunal.  The case, filed by Alex Mallinson, is complicated by
“ongoing investigations by the bank in respect of other
employees” and two other tribunal claims by Mallinson’s
colleagues on the CDO desk, RBS lawyer Diya Sen Gupta said at a
London employment tribunal hearing yesterday.  Mallinson has made clear that he may file a separate High
Court claim against the bank for more than 1 million pounds
($1.6 million), Sen Gupta told the tribunal. She didn’t provide
details about the bank’s investigation or why the three
employees were fired.  The hearing is expected to continue today after a break
yesterday for employment judge Paul Stewart to review documents
in the case.  “The bank does not accept that there is substance to Mr.
Mallinson’s claim and will be defending it.” RBS spokeswoman
Rebecca Nelson said in an e-mail. Mallinson’s lawyer Danielle
Spiers didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  JPMorgan, Deutsche Bank Tricked Milan in Swaps Case, Judge Says  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Depfa
Bank Plc took advantage of the city of Milan, tricking the
municipality into agreeing to a financing deal that didn’t meet
its objective of cutting borrowing costs, wrote the judge who
convicted the four banks in the fraud case.  The banks should have informed the municipality of the
charges related to the derivatives that were part of the
transactions, Judge Oscar Magi in Milan wrote yesterday in
explaining the convictions he handed down in December.  “Information deficiencies manifested themselves and caused
a grave asymmetry of information,” in the city’s ability to
analyze the economics of the financing package, Magi wrote.  The banks, whose employees involved in the case were
registered with Britain’s Financial Services Authority, violated
U.K. rules by failing to inform the city that it was a
counterparty to the lenders rather than a customer. The banks
acted as arrangers of a bond sale, or advisers to the
municipality, as well as its counterparties, the judge wrote.  When contacted by  Bloomberg News , the banks said they
disagree with the verdict and plan to appeal, reiterating their
stance following the December ruling.  Chris Hamilton , a
spokesman for the FSA in London, declined to immediately
comment.  Interviews/Hearings  Barclays CEO Says He’d Resign Under ‘Grave Regulatory Event’  Barclays CEO Antony Jenkins told Parliament he’d resign if
the bank were to suffer a “grave regulatory event” while he
was in charge.  The CEO spoke in a Parliamentary hearing today in London.  Lawmaker Mark Garnier asked Jenkins if he’d “take
responsibility like a man.”  “The chief executive is responsible for the performance of
the organization. In the event of a major issue identified, the
appropriate consequences have to apply to that. Those include
everything up to resignation,” Jenkins said in response to
Garnier’s question.  Dimon Says U.S. Lacks Europe’s Will on Tax Policy  Jamie Dimon , chief executive officer of JPMorgan Chase &
Co., spoke about the  U.S. economy , the European debt crisis and
fiscal policy.  Dimon, who spoke at an event in Miami, also commented on
banking regulation and the  Federal Reserve ’s leadership.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Europe’s Banks Urged to Pursue More Capital-Heavy Unit Cuts  The president of the European Banking Federation is urging
lenders in the region to reinvent themselves and discard the
areas of their business that place too large a capital burden on
their balance sheets.  “Banks need to be more efficient, that’s very simple,”
EBF President  Christian Clausen  said in an interview in
Stockholm last week. “Everything that can be done will be done
in terms of moving business.”  Job losses in the financial industry were close to their
highest in four years at the end of January, with European banks
leading the cuts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Even
banks in Scandinavia, which emerged from the debt crisis largely
unscathed, are cutting jobs.  The bank is closing branches, according to Clausen.  The capital requirements set by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision are forcing banks to realign or lose money.
Capital-heavy services such as corporate lending are being cut
back while alternatives such as debt underwriting are taking its
place.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 