-- Proposition 30 Means More Californians Stay in Local Jail
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-02-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/proposition-30-means-more-californians-stay-in-local-jail.html
California ’s voter-approved tax
increase, billed as a boon to schools, also will ease counties’
financial burden as they take control of thousands of inmates
who had been the state’s responsibility.  Proposition 30  raised California’s highest-in-the-nation
sales tax and income tax rates for top earners. It also
guarantees the state will continue sending counties more than $6
billion a year for prisoners and social programs. That will help
free them from the feast-and-famine cycles of state budgeting,
said Jean Kinney Hurst, a senior legislative representative for
the California State Association of Counties.  “These protections are fundamental,” Hurst said in a
telephone interview. “They allow us to be fully on the hook and
take on financial obligations ourselves, and give us the
financial freedom to make long-term investments that we couldn’t
do if people felt that funding was at risk.”  California is among a number of states that has responded
to declining or stagnant tax revenue by shifting responsibility
for law enforcement and social programs to local governments.
The National League of Cities’ 2012 City Fiscal Conditions
 report  said 19 percent of city finance officers reported they
took over some state programs since 2010. Officials from 324
cities with populations of at least 10,000 responded to the
survey.  In the Nov. 6 election, 55 percent of California voters
approved Governor Jerry Brown’s proposal to boost the statewide
sales tax rate to 7.5 percent from 7.25 percent. Taxes on annual
income exceeding $250,000 were increased by 3 percentage points,
for a total of 13.3 percent for income of $1 million or more.
Brown, a 74-year-old Democrat, campaigned for the measure to
maintain funding for public schools and colleges.  Constitutional Guarantee  The governor spent less time touting the measure’s other
feature: a constitutional guarantee that the 58 counties would
continue receiving state money to pay for prison transfers,
anti-drug programs, criminal probation, mental health programs,
foster care and other services shifted to counties in 2011.  The transfer of responsibility was meant to save the state
money and give local governments more control over care for
their populations, Brown said at the time. The state prison
population is being reduced by 40,000, or about one-third.  While the state gave $6 billion to counties to pay the
cost, there was no guarantee it would provide the money from one
year to the next. County officials expressed concern that it
would be taken away in a lean year or under a new governor.  Ratings Companies  That lack of certainty, coupled with California’s
fluctuating tax revenue, prompted notes of caution from ratings
companies as they evaluated bonds issued by counties.  Fitch Ratings said Los Angeles County was “vulnerable to
state funding reductions, realignment of potentially underfunded
state functions to the county, and heavy social service
expenditures” when it assigned an A+ rating to $59.2 million in
lease-revenue bonds in November 2011. A+ is Fitch’s fifth-
highest rating.  Under the new funding guarantee, Brown said counties will
receive 1.0625 cents of California’s 7.5-cent sales tax and a
share of state vehicle licensing fees. The revenue is estimated
at $6 billion for the year ending June 30 and $6.3 billion for
the following year, according to state budget  documents .  Los Angeles County, the most populous U.S. county, is
taking about 4,700 prisoners from the state, said Steve Whitmore, spokesman for Sheriff Lee Baca, who runs the county’s
jails. Los Angeles County has almost 19,000 inmates, about 2,000
fewer than capacity, Whitmore said by telephone.  Los Angeles  The state government is giving Los Angeles County about
$267 million extra for the year ending June 30 for the cost of
accommodating the new prisoners, Whitmore said.  Meanwhile, the county plans to replace its Men’s Central
Jail, a 50-year-old facility  billed  as the largest jail in the
U.S., and to build a new women’s facility. Those projects didn’t
depend on passage of Proposition 30, Whitmore said.  While the measure’s approval provides breathing room for
California counties, it doesn’t change the “inequitable”
formula for distributing the tax money, said state Senator
Anthony Cannella. The Republican from rural Ceres, east of San
Francisco, said the funding is weighted too heavily toward
counties’ overall population rather than their inmate
population.  Cannella introduced a  bill  Jan. 30 that would provide
another $819.9 million this year to counties based on how many
additional prisoners they are getting.  ‘Inadequate Funding’  “The passage of Proposition 30 did relieve some of the
pressure, but my concern is that it’s a constitutional guarantee
for inadequate funding,” Cannella said in a telephone
interview. “This is still a giant experiment. I think it can
work, but it needs to be adequately funded. Right now we’re not
there yet.”  The California State Sheriffs’ Association, which backed
Proposition 30, hasn’t taken a position on Cannella’s bill.
Association President Keith Royal said counties are doing the
best they can with the state revenue. Some are hiring more jail
employees, while others plan to release low-level offenders from
jails to daily monitoring, he said.  “We’re still going through a tough time in California,”
said Royal, the sheriff in Nevada County, straddling the Sierra
Nevada mountain range in Northern California. “I can build
additional facilities, but I still have to deal with the costs
of staffing those. The confidence of having the funding is
really the issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  