-- Protalix Hires Citigroup, Considers Possible Company Sale
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2013-02-05T21:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/protalix-surges-most-since-may-on-reported-sale-process.html
Protalix BioTherapeutics Inc. (PLX)  hired
Citigroup Inc. as the Israeli drugmaker considers a possible
sale of the company after its first product won approval.  Protalix is reviewing possibilities for “product
partnering, technology sharing and other strategic
alternatives,” the Carmiel-based company said in a statement
today.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , which markets a drug for a rare genetic
illness with Protalix, has expressed interest in buying the
company, the financial newspaper Calcalist reported, without
saying how it obtained the information.  Buying Protalix would allow Pfizer to keep all the sales of
the medicine, known as Elelyso. The New York-based company also
would gain Protalix’s know-how in making  plant-based medicines .
Protalix, which has a market value of about $589.8 million,
surged the most in almost four years in New York trading.  “Pfizer is interested in Protalix’s manufacturing
prowess,” Steve Brozak, an analyst at WBB Securities LLC who
has a buy rating on Protalix, said in a phone interview from
Clark, New Jersey. Protalix Chief Executive Officer David Aviezer “has in 20 years put together a company that has the
technology that can change the way these very sophisticated
products are made.”  When Elelyso was approved in May, Protalix and Pfizer
became the first companies to win U.S. Food and Drug
Administration backing for a drug made from a genetically
engineered plant. The European Union’s drug regulator failed to
back the product last year, saying a competing treatment from
 Shire Plc (SHP)  has exclusive market rights for 10 years.  Fat Buildup  Elelyso treats Gaucher disease, an illness that can cause
fat to build up in the liver, spleen, bone marrow and nervous
system. The market for the product is lucrative because of the
severity of the symptoms and chronic nature of the illness,
according to Protalix’s website.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and  Merck & Co. (MRK)  also may be interested in
buying Protalix, Calcalist reported. Representatives of
Protalix, Citigroup, Pfizer, Novartis and Merck all declined to
comment on the report.  Protalix is seeking $1 billion in a sale, though the
largest shareholders may be satisfied with $700 million to $800
million, the newspaper reported.  Biocell Ltd. (BCEL) , which owns about
15 percent of  Protalix’s stock , didn’t immediately respond to a
call for comment.  Enzyme Replacement  Protalix  gained  16 percent to $6.24 at 4 p.m. in New York,
the biggest increase since June 26, 2009. The shares soared 19
percent to 22.60 shekels in Tel Aviv.  Elelyso replaces an enzyme missing in people with Gaucher
disease, a genetic ailment that affects as many as one in 50,000
people in the U.S., according to the National Human Genome
Research Institute.  Sanofi (SAN)  also sells a drug for Gaucher called
Cerezyme. About 1 in 14 individuals of Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry
carries the mutated gene that can cause the illness.  Protalix and Pfizer are seeking to win marketing approval
in Brazil, Chief Financial Officer Yossi Maimon said in
December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  