-- RBA’s Stevens Comments After Keeping Rates Unchanged (Full Text)
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-02-05T03:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/rba-s-stevens-comments-after-keeping-rates-unchanged-full-text-.html
The following is a reformatted
version of a statement published today on the Reserve Bank of
Australia’s website, after Governor Glenn Stevens and his board
kept the overnight cash-rate target at 3 percent.  “At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash
rate unchanged at 3.0 percent.  ‘‘Global growth is forecast to be a little below average
for a time, but the downside risks appear to have abated, for
the moment at least. The United States has so far avoided a
severe fiscal contraction and financial strains in  Europe 
have lessened considerably over recent months. Growth in  China 
has stabilised at a fairly robust pace. Around Asia generally,
growth was dampened by the earlier slowing in China and the
weakness in Europe, but again there are signs recently
of stabilisation. Some commodity prices have firmed over recent
months.  ‘‘Sentiment in financial markets has continued to improve,
with risk spreads narrowing and funding conditions for financial
institutions becoming more favourable. Long-term interest rates
faced by highly rated sovereigns, including
Australia, remain at exceptionally low levels. Borrowing
conditions for large corporations are very attractive. Share
prices have made further gains. However, the task of putting
private and public finances on sustainable paths in several
major countries is far from complete and, accordingly, financial
markets remain vulnerable to setbacks in these areas.  ‘‘In  Australia , most indicators available for this meeting
suggest that growth was close to trend in 2012, led by very
large increases in capital spending in the resources sector,
while some other sectors experienced weaker conditions.
Looking ahead, the peak in resource investment is approaching.
As it does, there will be more scope for some other areas of
demand to strengthen.  ‘‘Present indications are that moderate growth in private
consumption spending is occurring, though a return to the very
strong growth of some years ago is unlikely. The near-term
outlook for non-residential building investment, and investment
generally outside the resources sector, remains relatively
subdued.  ‘‘Public spending is forecast to be constrained. On the
other hand, there are indications of a prospective improvement
in dwelling investment, with dwelling prices moving higher,
rental yields increasing and building approvals higher
than a year ago. Exports of natural resources have been
strengthening, though recent bad weather is affecting some
shipments. Inflation is consistent with the medium-term target,
with both headline CPI and underlying measures at around 2 1/4
percent on the latest reading.  ‘‘Looking ahead, with the labour market softening somewhat
and unemployment edging higher, conditions are working to
contain pressure on labour costs. Moreover, businesses are
likely to be focusing on lifting efficiency under conditions of
moderate demand growth. These trends should help to keep
inflation low, even as the effects on prices of the earlier
exchange rate appreciation wane. The Bank’s assessment remains
that inflation will be consistent with the target over the next
one to two years.  ‘‘During 2012, there was a significant easing in monetary
policy. Though the full impact of this will still take further
time to become apparent, there are signs that the easier
conditions are having some of the expected effects: the demand
for some categories of consumer durables has picked up; housing
prices have moved higher; there are early indications of a pick-
up in dwelling construction; and savers are starting to shift
portfolios towards assets offering higher expected returns.  ‘‘On the other hand, the exchange rate remains higher than
might have been expected, given the observed decline in export
prices, and the demand for credit is low, as some households and
firms continue to seek lower debt levels.  ‘‘The Board’s view is that with inflation likely to be
consistent with the target, and with growth likely to be a
little below trend over the coming year, an accommodative stance
of monetary policy is appropriate. The inflation outlook,
as assessed at present, would afford scope to ease policy
further, should that be necessary to support demand.  ‘‘At today’s meeting, taking into account the flow
of recent information and noting that there had been a
substantial easing of policy as a result of previous decisions,
the Board judged that it was prudent to leave the cash rate
unchanged. The Board will continue to assess the outlook
and adjust policy as needed to foster sustainable growth in
demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the target over
time.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  