-- Rice Jumps to 15-Month High on Signs U.S. Inventories Tightening
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-02-05T21:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/rice-jumps-to-15-month-high-on-signs-u-s-inventories-tightening.html
Rice futures surged to the highest in
almost 15 months on mounting concern that inventories are
dwindling in the U.S., the world’s fifth-biggest exporter.  Stockpiles  will drop to 960,000 metric tons in the year
ending July 31, down 26 percent from a year earlier, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture said Jan. 11. Consumers and exporters
may be scrambling to purchase supplies before prices rise
further, said  Dennis DeLaughter , a market analyst at Vantage RM,
a grain broker. Futures are up 6.4 percent this year.  “Commercial buyers need the rice, and we have a low supply
in Texas and Louisiana,” among the top five growers, DeLaughter
said by telephone from Houston. “There’s not that much rice
left, so they’re bidding up for it.”  Rice futures for March delivery gained 1.5 percent to
settle at $16.15 per 100 pounds at 2 p.m. on the Chicago Board
of Trade, after touching $16.29, the highest for a most-active
contract since Nov. 7, 2011.  The U.S. harvest area needs to expand by 10 percent “to
alleviate current scarcity,”  Shawn Hackett , the president of
Hackett Financial Advisors, said in e-mailed report today. To
encourage planting, the price needs to increase to $18, which
would be the highest since Sept. 16, 2011, he said. Farmers may
instead decide to plant soybeans or corn after both crops
reached a record last year.  “The temptation by those to plant corn and beans who
missed out over the last two years may prove to be too much to
overcome,” Hackett said.  Producers are concerned that the jump
in rice prices won’t be “a sustainable move, but one that will
quickly erode the second that acres have been planted,” he
said.  Production  in Thailand, India, Vietnam and Pakistan, the
top four exporters, may total 154.01 million tons this year,
down from 158.36 million last season, according to the USDA.  Growers in South America are the biggest competitors for
exporters in the U.S., DeLaughter said. Cold, wet weather will
probably reduce shipments from Brazil, and the country may even
need to import rice, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  