-- Rio Unit Says Cost of Oyu Tolgoi Mine Jumps 16% to $6.6 Billion
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-02-05T22:54:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/rio-unit-says-cost-of-oyu-tolgoi-mine-jumps-16-to-6-6-billion.html
The cost of building  Rio Tinto
Group ’s Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold mine rose 16 percent to $6.6
billion, according to a company statement responding to
criticism of the project in Mongolia’s parliament last week.  The estimate compares with the initial 2010 costing of $5.7
billion, according to a statement on the  website  of Oyu Tolgoi
LLC, the mine’s operator that is owned 66 percent by Rio unit
Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. and 34 percent by Mongolia’s
government.  President  Tsakhia Elbegdorj  said Mongolia should have more
control of the mine that will be the biggest contributor to its
economy once it’s in full production. Elbegdorj also said it
took Rio months to respond to questions about the project, which
the government said had been subject to cost increases.  “During last Friday’s session, many issues were raised
that Oyu Tolgoi and its investors have previously addressed
through numerous meetings with government and ministry officials
and staff,”  Cameron McRae , president Oyu Tolgoi LLC, said in
the statement. “The fact that these issues are still being
raised underscores the importance of our ongoing efforts to
communicate fully with the government and citizens of
Mongolia.”  The president’s comments heightened tension with London-
based Rio over the ownership and future development of the
project, which is currently the world’s biggest copper mine
under construction. Rio is considering a temporary halt to work
to protest government demands for a greater share of profit, two
people familiar with the plans said last week.  Turquoise Hill  rose  1.9 percent C$7.71 at the close
yesterday in Toronto. Rio gained 0.3 percent to 3,625 pence in
London.  Shareholder Meeting  Oyu Tolgoi will hold a shareholder meeting in Mongolia
today, where it expects to address concerns held by the
government.  In October, Rio rejected a second move by Mongolia to
renegotiate a 2009 investment agreement for the development of
Oyu Tolgoi. Rio Tinto owns 51 percent of Turquoise Hill, which
was founded by  Robert Friedland .  Oyu Tolgoi was Mongolia’s sixth-biggest taxpayer in 2011,
before the mine was operational, the company said, addressing
accusations it doesn’t pay taxes in the Asian nation. It paid
$280 million in 2012 in taxes and other government fees,
according to the statement. The company also spent more than
$1.1 billion during 2010-2012 with Mongolian suppliers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  