-- Risk of U.S. Recession Still Exists, Sri-Kumar Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-02-05T19:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/risk-of-u-s-recession-still-exists-sri-kumar-says-tom-keene.html
The U.S. still faces the risk of
recession because of potential cuts in government spending on
top of anemic job and wage growth, according to Komal Sri-Kumar,
founder of Sri-Kumar Global Strategies Inc.  The 0.1 percent decline in fourth-quarter gross domestic
product was “not the beginning of the double dip that I have
been worried about, but I think that is still in the cards,”
Sri-Kumar said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  Automatic spending cuts stemming from a 2011 budget
agreement scheduled to take effect March 1 are threatening to
slow growth even as legislation funding government operations
expires on March 27. The cuts, known as sequestration, were
first included in an August 2011 deficit-reduction deal designed
to be so draconian that it would push Democrats and Republicans
to compromise on taxes and spending.  Employment growth has been slow as the U.S. labor market
added 157,000 jobs in January, according to a Feb. 1 report. The
unemployment rate climbed to 7.9 percent. Joblessness has
hovered at 7.8 percent or 7.9 percent for five consecutive
months. January’s increase was less than the advance of 165,000
that was the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “The question is, why is he increase in wages and
employment still relatively anemic is compared with history?”
Sri-Kumar said “We are in a recovery, but it is very slight.
And that is why it can be easily dislodged.”  Equity Returns  The Commerce Department said last week that the U.S.
economy unexpectedly shrank in the fourth quarter and the
Federal Reserve reiterated its commitment to asset purchases to
push down yields and lift growth.  Stocks are disjointed from the reality in the underlying
economy, which is negative for markets in the long run, Sri
Kumar said. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index returned 5.2 percent
last month, its best start to a year since 1997.  The Fed has injected more than $2.3 trillion into the
financial system through bond purchases to ignite economic
growth and keep borrowing costs near record lows. It’s buying
$85 billion a month in mortgage securities and Treasuries.  “The stock market is going up because you have the Federal
Reserve, which you do not want to fight,” Sri-Kumar said. “At
some point in time, the Federal Reserve has to pull back and
take in the liquidity it created.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  