-- Romania Holds Main Rate for 7th Meeting on Inflation
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-02-05T11:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/romania-holds-main-rates-for-7th-meeting-on-inflation-concerns.html
Romania  kept its benchmark  interest
rate  at a record low for a seventh meeting amid a spike in
inflation as the economy stagnates.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei left its policy rate at 5.25
percent today, the bank said in an e-mail. The decision matched
all 19 estimates from economists surveyed by Bloomberg. It also
left its minimum  reserve requirements  on foreign-exchange
deposits at 20 percent and the ratio for leu deposits at 15
percent. Governor Mugur Isarescu will hold a briefing at 3 p.m.
in Bucharest to explain the decision.  Romanian monetary-policy makers halted a rate-cutting cycle
in May last year, bucking an easing trend in the region needed
to spur economic growth as a government plan to deregulate
energy prices and drought-driven food prices quickened
inflation. The economy probably stagnated in 2012 and expansion
will be slower than forecast this year, the  International
Monetary Fund  said Jan. 31.  “The National Bank continues to err on the safe side,”
Dumitru Dulgheru, an economist at Banca Comerciala Romana SA in
Bucharest, said in an e-mailed note after the announcement.
“Inflation remains stubbornly elevated, while the economy is in
neutral and the short-term prospects so far remain subdued.”  Inflation quickened more than forecast in December to 4.95
percent, exceeding the central bank’s 2012 target, on rising
food and electricity  prices . The bank, which had targeted
inflation of between 2 percent to 4 percent at the end of 2012,
also approved its quarterly inflation report today, which will
be presented at a news conference on Feb. 7.  Leu Gains  The leu was the world’s best-performing currency in
January, rising 1.5 percent against the euro. It weakened 0.1
percent to 4.3765 at 12:36 p.m. in Bucharest.  Many central banks in the region are cutting borrowing
costs to foster economic growth. Hungary lowered its main
interest rate for a sixth month on Jan. 29 to 5.5 percent, while
 Poland ’s central bank eased its benchmark seven-day  reference
rate  on Jan. 9 to 4 percent.  Romania lowered rates 1 percentage point before pausing on
May 2 last year after a government collapse amid slowing
economic growth. The wait-and-see stance it adopted was
“appropriate,” according to IMF Mission Chief Erik de Vrijer.
Gross domestic product will expand 1.5 percent this year
compared with zero growth last year, he said Jan. 31.  While the central bank has left rates on hold for the past
nine months, it has resorted to weekly liquidity operations to
guide the leu under its managed-floating regime. The bank has
set up a liquidity limit to commercial banks since October,
which it has loosened over the past month, according to data
published on  its website .  “Given the elevated inflation level, the room for
maneuvering is still limited,” said Daniel Lenz, chief
strategist for  emerging markets  at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt .
“Once inflationary pressures start abating, the National Bank
of Romania may indeed go for a cut in the early third quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  