-- Romania to Become Net Exporter of Gas by 2020, Sterling Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-02-05T18:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/romania-to-become-net-exporter-of-gas-by-2020-sterling-says.html
Romania may become a net exporter of
natural gas by 2020, with major discoveries possible this year
amid forecasts that put the country’s total  Black Sea  reserves
at 600 billion cubic meters.  “This is the most active year for exploration and drilling
yet in the Romanian Black Sea,” Marc Beacom, general manager of
the Romanian unit of  Sterling Resources (SLG)  Ltd. of  Canada , said in
an interview in the Bulgarian capital Sofia today. “I assume
with all the drilling that will take place in 2013 we will see
major discoveries.”  As much as $30 billion will be needed to develop the 600
billion cubic meters of reserves for their lifespan, Beacom
said, citing a study by Purvin & Gertz Inc. Operating
expenditures for production may reach $25 billion and tax and
royalties to the government $45 billion, he said  “It’s basically a guess and until we start drilling wells
and proving it, we won’t know what it’s going to be, it’s very
early days,” Beacon said.  Exxon Mobil Corp (XOM)  and  OMV Petrom SA (SNP)  said a year ago that
they discovered what may be their biggest gas find in the Black
Sea after exploring the Neptun block, located 170 kilometers
(106 miles) off the Romanian coast at about 1,000 meters depth.  Reducing Interest  Sterling agreed in October to sell to Exxon and Petrom a
strip of its Midia block that is next to the two companies’
Neptun block. The strip amounts to 11 percent of Sterling’s
Midia and Pelican concession.  “We hope to complete the deal soon,” Beacom said. “They
need to go through the steps of getting government approval.”  Sterling has no plans to sell any other blocks. The company
is looking for partners to take a stake in the remaining blocks,
and “has put out offers to companies to negotiate,” he said.  “We have prospective companies,” Beacom said, declining
to identify them. “We want to reduce our interest in the
remaining blocks. We’re too small a company and we just have too
big an exposure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  