-- Rompetrol Plans $200 Million Investment in New Romanian Stations
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-02-05T08:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/rompetrol-plans-200-million-investment-in-new-romanian-stations.html
Rompetrol Group NV,  Romania ’s second-
biggest oil company, plans to invest about $200 million in the
country as it seeks to expand its retail network around the
 Black Sea region  by at least 50 percent.  The Amsterdam-based company, which is wholly owned by
KazMunaiGaz National Co, seeks to add about 150 new stations in
Romania and another 200 stations in Bulgaria, Georgia and
Moldova to accommodate rising output at its Petromidia refinery
on the Black Sea coast, Senior Vice President Azamat Zhangulov
said in an interview in Bucharest. Turkey and Ukraine are
managed as standalone projects, he said.  “We have started the project of retail network expansion
in the Black Sea region and the value is quite big, we are
talking about hundreds of millions of dollars,” Zhangulov said.
“The plan is for a term of three to five years, but we want to
do them as fast as we can and we feel it is the right moment to
do it.”  Rompetrol has invested about $1.3 billion over the past 10
years to increase the annual capacity of its  Petromidia (RRC)  refinery
on the Romanian Black Sea coast to 5 million tons and is now
seeking markets to sell their surplus of about 1 million tons of
fuel a year from the growing output.  The company also plans to have at least 100 stations in
Ukraine and enter the Turkish market by buying some stations and
building new ones, according to Zhangulov. Rompetrol has “an
ambitious target” to invest about $1 billion in Ukraine in the
next five years, depending on market conditions and the
“overall investment climate,” he said.  Risks and Appetite  “There are lots of opportunities in Ukraine, but where
there are opportunities there are also risks and we will go as
far as we’ll have an appetite to go,” Zhangulov said. “We want
to achieve as first stage a significant network in Ukraine of at
least 100 stations, maybe more, and to go forward with that. The
investment plan will depend on what we achieve.”  Rompetrol will also invest about $100 million in its
Romanian refinery this year as it struggles to make it
profitable, according to Zhangulov.  The company estimates its gross total sales this year at
about $12.4 billion and earnings before interest and taxes,
depreciation and amortization at $195 million.  Rompetrol’s shareholders are currently considering a $100
million investment in a 75-megawatt gas-fired power plant to
secure the energy consumption of the Petromidia refinery and
boost its efficiency, Zhangulov said.  Kazakhstan ’s state-owned oil and gas company bought 75
percent of Rompetrol Group, which was valued at $2.7 billion, in
August 2007 and doubled its refining capacity. In 2009, it
bought the remaining 25 percent from the previous owner, Dinu Patriciu, one of Romania’s richest men, according to Forbes.  Legal Disputes  The company entered several legal disputes with the
Romanian government in the past years over an alleged unpaid
debt of about 570 million euros ($773.6 million) to the state.  Rompetrol gave the Romanian state a minority stake of 44.7
percent in the Petromidia refinery in 2010, after converting a
portion of the debt in shares. The state is challenging the
swap, saying Rompetrol still owes it the full amount in cash or
a full conversion of the bonds, which would give it the majority
stake in the refinery.  The government has filed lawsuits against Rompetrol Group,
saying it misinterpreted the bond agreement, which stated that
Rompetrol had the option to either pay the debt in full or
convert all the bonds into shares.  “We are trying to buy back the shares and that is a matter
of price,” Zhangulov said. “Now is the best time to get to a
solution because everything is stable in the Romanian
government. It’s clearer that our investment plan can move
forward and we hope that we can reach an agreement with the
government and we will take all the necessary steps in order to
reach it as soon as possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  