-- Rousseff’s Ambitions Face Airport Test: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-02-05T21:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/rousseff-s-ambitions-face-airport-test-corporate-brazil.html
Sao Paulo ’s Guarulhos Airport is
undertaking its biggest expansion in almost three decades in a
test of President Dilma Rousseff’s 187.2 billion-real ($94
billion) plan for private companies to improve facilities from
roads to ports.  Investimentos & Participacoes em Infra-Estrutura SA, known
as Invepar, is working on a 190,000 square-meter (2 million
square-foot) terminal to double existing space after taking
control of  Latin America ’s busiest airport on Nov. 15. Operating
rights for Guarulhos and two other airports were awarded in a
24.5 billion-real government auction last year.  Guarulhos’s outdated terminals, rampant delays and hours-
long bottlenecks through immigration underscore  Brazil ’s
challenges as it prepares to host 45 million visitors for
soccer’s World Cup in 2014. Those infrastructure challenges
hamper efforts to spur the economy, saidRuchir Sharma, managing
director and head of  emerging markets  at Morgan Stanley.  “Growth is weak and part of that has to do with capacity
constraints,” Sharma, whose 2012 book “Breakout Nations” is
critical of Brazil for neglecting government assets, said by
telephone from  New York . “This will take a long time to sort
itself out because the problems are more long term in nature.”  Airport Fixes  Invepar is implementing a mix of quick fixes and long-term
projects at Guarulhos. The Rio de Janeiro-based company is
expanding bathrooms, replacing signs and eliminating
bureaucratic steps that prohibited carry-on-only passengers from
bypassing the check-in counter.  A new parking structure is also in the works, saidLuiz Ritzmann, chief information officer of GRU Airport, as the group
that includes Invepar and its partners is known. The terminal
project is 15 percent ahead of schedule and should open in April
2014, he said in an interview.  Long lines and delays at Guarulhos, located 25 kilometers
(16 miles) from downtown Sao Paulo, are a legacy of 28 years
without major investment that have left the airport operating at
twice its intended capacity.  Guarulhos hasn’t added or expanded a runway or a major
terminal since opening in 1985, even as traffic doubled since
2006 to 32.6 million fliers last year. It has 22 restaurants and
food stands compared with more than 120 at Mexico City’s main
airport, the region’s second busiest with 29 million passengers
annually.  Weak Growth  Growth in Brazil, the world’s second-largest emerging
market, slowed to less than 1 percent last year, according to a
central bank survey of economists, down from 2.7 percent in 2011
and 7.5 percent in 2010.  Investors are concerned that the government may be pushing
companies to accept rates of return that aren’t profitable, said
Sergio Monaro, director of project finance in Brazil at HSBC
Holdings Plc.  After winning the contract in 2012, Invepar’s credit score
was put on Rating Watch Negative by  Fitch Ratings  amid concern
the price was too high. Fitch removed the designation eight
months later after a capital injection by shareholders.  “Investors want return for the risk,” Monaro said in a
phone interview from Sao Paulo. “In terms of liquidity, since
you have a limited universe of investors and players, you could
have a situation of bottleneck. There will be a lack of
companies to take these concessions.”  Return Rates  The government doesn’t set rates of return, said Bernardo Figueiredo, head of the state logistics company, known as EPL.  “The truth is it’s the market that regulates the value of
a return,” he said in an interview in Sao Paulo on Jan. 24.
Helio Doyle, an EPL spokesman, didn’t respond to an e-mail
request for comment.  Invepar is counting on the revenue from new services such
as shops and restaurants at the airport to bolster returns,
Chief Executive Officer Gustavo Rocha said at a Bloomberg Forum
event in December. Invepar seeks to increase sales from sources
other than airport fees to about 65 percent by 2015, from a
range of 35 percent to 40 percent in 2009, he said.  Its partner in bidding for the 20-year contract was
Johannesburg-based operator  Airports Co. South Africa . Invepar
belongs to employee pension funds from state-run companies
including Banco do Brasil, Caixa Economica Federal and  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA. (PETR4)   Triunfo’s Rally  Construction companies Triunfo Participacoes &
Investimentos and Engevix Engenharia SA also won licenses in the
February 2012 auction to run airports in Campinas and Brasilia,
respectively. Triunfo has  since rallied  57 percent , while
Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index fell 8.9 percent.  The concessions to run Galeao airport in Rio de Janeiro and
Confins in Minas Gerais state are set to be auctioned in late
September. Infraero, the state-run airport operator that had run
Guarulhos until the privatization, will hold a stake in all
airports being sold.  Brazil will also privatize the operations of ports,
railways and roads this year.  GRU Airport, which is investing 6 billion reais in the
facility, also plans to boost parking spots almost fivefold by
2032, double plane slots to 118 by next year, open four hotels
and connect the buildings with a light-rail line, said Ritzmann,
the CIO.  The deadline for the initial Guarulhos improvements is
approaching fast:  World Cup  games kick off in less than 17
months.  “At Guarulhos Airport, everything is done in half the time
-- it has to be,” Ritzmann said. “We will deliver this project
on time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  