-- S&P Won’t Employ First Amendment Defense in U.S. Ratings Lawsuit
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2013-02-05T20:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/s-p-won-t-employ-first-amendment-defense-in-u-s-ratings-lawsuit.html
McGraw-Hill Cos.’s  Standard & Poor’s 
unit won’t rely on the argument that its rating opinions are
protected by the U.S. Constitution’s guarantee of freedom of
speech to defend against a government lawsuit, according to the
company’s attorney  Floyd Abrams .  “I don’t have any magic First Amendment wand in my pocket
for this one,” Abrams said in an interview today with Bloomberg
Television’s  Sara Eisen . “It’s not a First Amendment case. The
government is alleging that S&P didn’t believe what it said; the
First Amendment doesn’t protect against that.”  The U.S. Justice Department filed a civil complaint in Los
Angeles yesterday accusing  McGraw-Hill  and its S&P unit of three
types of fraud, the first federal case against a ratings company
for grades related to the credit crisis. A judge in San
Francisco state court ruled in December 2010 that S&P’s ratings
on three structured investment vehicles were a form a protected
speech.  The ratings “were independent, they were the best judgment
of S&P at the time about what the future would bring,” Abrams
said. The financial crisis “was a lot worse than S&P predicted
it would be and a lot worse than everyone else predicted it to
be.”  Abrams said the firm, along with Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  and then-Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson , were
“all in the same ballpark” as they “tried and everyone
failed” to predict the severity of the financial crisis.  ‘Extensive Discussions’  U.S. penalties could amount to as much as $5 billion, based
on the losses suffered by federally insured financial
institutions, the Justice Department said. S&P issued credit
ratings on more than $2.8 trillion of residential mortgage-
backed securities and about $1.2 trillion of collateralized-debt
obligations from September 2004 through October 2007, according
to the complaint.  The ratings company had been in “extensive discussions”
with the government over the accusations for at least a four-
month period, Abrams said.  “There wasn’t any fraud,” Abrams said. “People at S&P
cared a lot and fought a lot with each other and tried their
best to come out with the right answers about what would happen
in the future. That is no basis for bringing a lawsuit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  