-- McGraw-Hill Says Tennessee Law Violates S&P Free Speech
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-02-05T21:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/s-p-parent-sues-tennessee-claiming-law-violates-rights.html
McGraw-Hill Cos., the target of
federal and state fraud suits over credit ratings, sued
 Tennessee  claiming its  Standard & Poor’s  unit’s free-speech
rights are threatened by a state consumer-protection law.  “Credit ratings are fully protected by the First
Amendment,” McGraw-Hill said in a five-page complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Nashville. The company is seeking
a court order barring the state from applying the Tennessee
Consumer Protection Act against credit-rating activities.  Tennessee today joined more than 12 states and the federal
government in suing New York-based S&P for allegedly making
misleading statements about residential mortgage-backed
securities that helped precipitate the financial crisis of 2008.  Tennessee sued McGraw-Hill and Standard & Poor’s in state
court in Nashville. The U.S. Justice Department sued the
companies yesterday in federal court in  Los Angeles .  McGraw-Hill said in its complaint that the Tennessee law
would impose liability on S&P without first requiring proof that
the company had made a statement “with knowledge of its falsity
or with serious doubts as to its truth.”  Jeffrey Hill, senior counsel for Tennessee Attorney General
Robert Cooper, said in a phone interview today that the McGraw-
Hill claims parallel defenses it has raised in litigation with
Illinois and  Connecticut . He said the state will ask the court
to dismiss the case.  “The right forum for the lawsuit is the state court,” he
said.  The company’s case is McGraw-Hill Cos. v. Cooper, 13-cv-89,
U.S. District Court, Middle District of Tennessee (Nashville).
The state’s case is State of Tennessee ex. rel. Cooper v.
 McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) , 13-c-506, Davidson County, Tennessee, District
Court for the 20th Judicial District (Nashville).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  