-- SABMiller China Venture to Pay $851 Million for Brewery
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n ,   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2013-02-06T09:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/sabmiller-china-venture-to-pay-851-million-for-brewery.html
SABMiller Plc ’s joint venture in
China agreed to pay HK$6.6 billion ($851 million) for beermaking
assets from  Kingway Brewery Holdings Ltd.  to boost its share of
the world’s biggest market for the beverage.  China Resources Snow Breweries Ltd., which SABMiller co-
owns with government-backed  China Resources Enterprise Ltd. ,
will acquire Kingway’s production and sales business, including
seven breweries, it said yesterday in a statement. Kingway
shares  rose  to the highest in almost six years.  “Kingway is currently loss-making, but we believe we made
a right decision,”  Chen Lang , chairman of China Resources
Enterprise, told reporters in Hong Kong. “About 50 of our 80
breweries came through acquisitions. We have a  track record  of
turning things around in three to five years.”  China Resources, the maker of Snow beer, struck a deal
after  Kingway  stumbled in an earlier attempt to sell the
business. The company had drawn an offer from Anheuser-Busch
InBev NV last year, and Beijing Yanjing Brewery Co. was near an
agreement to buy the assets in April, people with knowledge of
the matter said at the time.  Kingway advanced 7 percent to close at HK$3.51, after
 jumping  as much as 20 percent in early trading in Hong Kong.
China Resources Enterprise fell 3 percent to HK$26.10. The
benchmark Hang Seng Index rose 0.5 percent.  Tsingtao Brewery  Guangdong-based  Kingway  put the assets up for sale as it
lost market share in its home province to competitors including
 Tsingtao Brewery Co.  The company said last week it expects to
report a loss for the second half of 2012, after  recording
losses  of HK$101.6 million in the first six months.  The transaction price includes about $33 million worth of
loans.  The purchase by China Resources “is an important strategic
transaction,” analysts at Barclays led by  Simon Hales  said in a
note. “SAB’s market-leading position in China continues to
offer investor upside optionality in the long-run.”  SABMiller  shares  rose as much as 1.6 percent yesterday
before closing at a record, giving the world’s second-biggest
brewer a market value of almost 51 billion pounds ($80 billion).  Potential Value  If the joint venture is able to increase earnings per
hectoliter of beer in China to just less than half of group
earnings by that measure, it would be worth 160 pence per
 SABMiller  share, the Barclays analysts said. About half the
price of the Kingway purchase is a premium versus building new
breweries, reflecting the potential value of the beer brand and
Kingway’s “strong regional route-to-market capabilities,” they
said.  Brewers are seeking to expand in faster-growing emerging
markets as sluggish economies and government cost-cutting
measures offset improvements in the beer market in Europe.  AB
InBev , the world’s biggest beermaker, agreed to buy the rest of
Mexico’s Grupo Modelo SAB last year for $20.1 billion in the
second-biggest beer deal of the last decade, while Heineken NV
took control of its Asian joint venture for S$5.6 billion ($4.5
billion.)  “The Kingway acquisition appears to be rather expensive,
considering Kingway’s assets and production capacity,”  Anson Chan , a Hong Kong-based analyst at KGI Asia Ltd., said by phone.
“It will not change the competition landscape in Guangdong, as
Snow is likely to remain the number three brand in the region,
lagging Tsingtao and Zhujiang Beer. I also don’t see much cost-
saving synergy in the deal.”  China Resources ’ Snow, the No. 1 beer brand in China, had a
22 percent market share last year, according to Euromonitor
International, a London-based research firm. The transaction
will add 14.5 million hectoliters of beer production capacity,
SABMiller said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  