-- San Francisco Gasoline Rises as Tesoro Seen Cutting Rates
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-02-05T22:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/san-francisco-gasoline-rises-as-tesoro-seen-cutting-rates.html
Spot gasoline in San Francisco
strengthened to the highest level against futures in more than
three months after  Tesoro Corp .’s Golden Eagle refinery was said
to shut the hydrocracker for repair.  The Northern California unit, which converts heavy
hydrocarbons into lighter fuels such as high-octane gasoline,
was taken out of service over the weekend after a hole was
discovered in a line, a person with direct knowledge of the
maintenance said yesterday. The work was expected to take at
least three weeks, the person said.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in  San Francisco 
widened 5 cents to a premium of 10 cents a gallon against
futures traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange at 3:59 p.m.
East Coast time, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the
highest level since Oct. 15. Prompt delivery of the fuel jumped
7.59 cents to $3.1374 a gallon.  Tina Barbee , a spokeswoman at Tesoro’s headquarters in San
Antonio, said by e-mail yesterday that the Golden Eagle  refinery 
is performing planned maintenance. She declined to specify the
units involved.  The plant was already repairing the No. 6 boiler, which
generates steam for equipment, the person familiar with
operations there said. That unit, initially scheduled to return
to service this week, may remain shut until next week for
additional tube repairs, the person said.  L.A. Carbob  Los Angeles  Carbob advanced 4 cents to a premium of 33.5
cents a gallon versus futures, the highest level for the fuel
since Oct. 12. Prompt delivery in Los Angeles rose 6.59 cents to
$3.3724 a gallon.  Valero Energy Corp .’s  Wilmington  refinery shut the fluid
catalytic cracker and alkylation unit yesterday for repairs,
 Bill Day , a spokesman at the company’s headquarters in San
Antonio, said by e-mail.  The plant was scheduled to shut equipment for work on the
alkylation unit’s depropanizer, a person familiar with the
repairs said Jan. 25. The maintenance is scheduled to be
completed Feb. 16, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  San Francisco Carbob  strengthened  1 cent to a discount of
23.5 cents a gallon against the fuel in Los Angeles. The gap
grew to a record 32.5 cents a gallon on Jan. 14.  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in  Los Angeles  slipped
0.5 cent to an 8-cent-a-gallon premium to Nymex heating oil
futures. The same fuel in  San Francisco  gained 3.5 cents to a
premium of 13.5 cents a gallon.  Portland Fuel  In  Portland , low-sulfur diesel rose 1 cent to 6.5 cents a
gallon above heating oil futures.  Conventional , 84-octane
gasoline increased 4.5 cents to a premium of 2 cents a gallon to
gasoline futures, the fuel’s highest level since Oct. 15.  Portland 84-octane gasoline  weakened  0.5 cent to 31.5 cents
a gallon under Los Angeles Carbob. The spread reached a record
75.5 cents a gallon on Oct. 4.  The  3-2-1 refinery crack spread  between Alaskan North Slope
crude, Carbob in Los Angeles and CARB diesel in Los Angeles,
widened $1.827 to $29.085 a barrel, the highest since Oct. 11.
The crack, a measure of refining profitability, fell to a year-
low of $3.858 a barrel on Dec. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  