-- San Francisco Upgraded by Moody’s as Tax Base Expands
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-02-05T17:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/san-francisco-upgraded-to-aa1-by-moody-s-on-economic-rebound.html
Moody’s Investors Service upgraded
$2.2 billion of  San Francisco  debt, citing a rebound in the
municipal tax base after the longest recession since the 1930s.  The city and county of San Francisco had its general-
obligation grade raised one level to Aa1, second-highest, New
York-based Moody’s said in a statement today.  “The rating action recognizes the quality of the city’s
tax base and economy, which have exhibited notable strengths
through the recession and are solidly accelerating from the
downturn,” Moody’s said. The upgrade reflects “sound prospects
for continued economic improvement at a rate superior to the
likely state and national growth rates.”  The municipality of about 813,000 is the fourth-most-
populous city in California, trailing Los Angeles, San Diego and
San Jose. The San Francisco Bay Area, home to Internet companies
such as  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , led the state in job
growth last year as the technology industry workforce rose,
according to  Stephen Levy , director of the Center for Continuing
Study of the California Economy in Palo Alto.  Unemployment in San Francisco fell to 6.5 percent in
December, according to the California Employment Development
Department. That compares with a  U.S. rate  of 7.8 percent and
9.8 percent for  the state.   Moody’s raised Los Angeles’s general-obligation rating one
level on Jan. 23 to Aa2, the third-best grade and the city’s
first upgrade in more than 20 years. The company cited a
property-tax base that “has proven quite stable and is now on
an upward track.”  S&P Boost  California was upgraded by  Standard & Poor’s  last month for
the first time since 2006, as tax increases championed by
Governor  Jerry Brown  bolstered the state’s fiscal outlook.  Moody’s said in a report this week that Brown’s proposed
budget “reflects a significant improvement in the state’s
finances.” The company affirmed its A1 rating on California,
second-lowest among U.S. states.  “The state’s improving economy, combined with recent tax
increases and spending controls, has put the state on a path to
large surpluses, although one that is typical of the boom-and-
bust revenue and economic cycles of California,” Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  