-- Saudi Trade-Hub Goal Spurs Bond Issues: Freight Column
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-02-05T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/saudi-trade-hub-goal-spurs-bond-issues-freight-column.html
Saudi Arabia increased spending on
transportation to a record this year as the Arab world’s biggest
economy seeks to catch up with the United Arab Emirates and
Qatar in the race for pre-eminence as a trading center.  That expansion is deepening the bond market as Saudi Arabia
expands port capacity to handle more than 5 million 20-foot
equivalent units a year. The kingdom is also installing 2,400
miles (3,860 kilometers) of rail lines and has opened the Saudi
aviation market to carriers Gulf Air and Qatar Airways.  Saudi Finance Minister  Ibrahim Al-Assaf  said on Dec. 30
that he expected more sukuk, or Islamic debt, for the planned
expansion of Riyadh and Jeddah airports. Government agencies
with “the ability to generate income and operate commercially”
are well-placed to issue bonds, al-Assaf said in May.  State-owned entities “are planning to issue long-term
government-backed bonds to finance major projects, including a
railway,”  Mohammed Al-Omran , a financial analyst and president
of the Gulf Center for Financial Consultancy in Riyadh, said in
a phone interview. “It is very attractive for investors to take
exposure to such sukuk because of the excellent return and
modest risk.”  The kingdom’s General Authority of Civil Aviation, or GACA,
sold 15 billion riyals ($4 billion) of Islamic bonds in January
last year. Saudi Arabia issued the most bonds last year in the
Middle East at $6.3 billion, followed by Qatar at $4 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Government Revenue  Under King Abdullah, the Saudi government has announced
investment plans of more than $500 billion as the monarch tries
to diversify the economy from oil, which accounts for 90 percent
of government revenue. Abdullah raised overall government
spending by almost a fifth this year to $219 billion.  Saudi Arabia’s neighbors have moved faster on
transportation infrastructure. Dubai has gotten ahead of the
game with the largest airline in the Middle East and with Jebel
Ali, the biggest port between Rotterdam and Singapore, said  Asim Bukhtiar , senior analyst at Riyad Capital, in a phone interview.  “They invested in infrastructure and moved toward opening
up the economy faster than Saudi Arabia,” he said. “Saudi
Arabia will probably move in that direction by opening up to
foreign investments.”  The budget allocation for transportation and telecoms
expanded 84 percent this year to $17.3 billion, the fastest pace
since at least 2004, according to data on the Finance Ministry
website. New projects, worth $8 billion, include 3,700
kilometers of roads and additional berths at expanded ports.  Red Sea  The kingdom has 206 mechanized and organized berths and
11,000 ships dock a year in ports on the Red Sea and the Persian
Gulf, according to data on the website of the Saudi Ports
Authority.  In April, Red Sea Gateway Terminal Co., a unit of  Saudi
Industrial Services Co. , opened a $540 million container
terminal at the port in Jeddah. That  added  1.8 million 20-foot
equivalent units of capacity. Jeddah Islamic Port handled 4.74
million 20-foot equivalent units last year, compared with 4
million 20-foot equivalent units in December 2011.  “Saudi Arabia still has some way to go in repairing the
reputation it developed by 2003” of an underdeveloped
infrastructure, said  Crispin Hawes , an analyst at the New York-
based Eurasia Group, which monitors political risk. “It is
still running to catch up where it should have been with its
neighbors. There are important bottlenecks in transport and
freight infrastructure, including roads and ports.”  Railway Investment  The 950-kilometer Land Bridge Project, covering a distance
equivalent to that between Los Angeles and Oklahoma City, will
link the Red Sea with a dry port in Riyadh and continue onto
Jubail on the Persian Gulf coast. The $7 billion cross-country
rail link will enable companies to carry freight from coast to
coast in about 18 hours, compared with the five to seven days it
can take to ship goods across the Arabian Peninsula.  The transportation expansion is also spurring record
lending as companies seek capital to finance projects. Bank
financing to the private sector rose at the fast pace in almost
four years to 951 billion riyals in December, according to data
from the central bank.  Closely held contractors such as Saudi Oger and the Saudi
BinLaden Group are benefiting from the government’s investment
program, Al-Omran said, adding to pressure on them for a public
listing.  Saudi Expansion  “Public opinion here is pushing the Saudi government to
enforce large contractors to go public by listing their shares
on the stock exchange due to the large size of projects granted
to them,” he said. “This is a critical test for the government
in its economic reform mandate.”  The Saudi economy expanded at 6.8 percent last year. That
beat the forecast of 5.6 percent by 16 analysts polled by
Bloomberg News. Growth is expected to slow to 3.9 percent this
year as oil production declines.  “Although the private sector has grown significantly in
recent years, the main driver of growth remains government
spending,” Eurasia’s Hawes said. “Spending on transportation
infrastructure is about driving growth as much as it is about
the infrastructure itself.”  A year before Abdullah, who turns 90 next year, became
king, the government’s infrastructure spending was only $1.95
billion in 2004 and $2.4 billion a year later, one-sixth of the
present level. From 2006 onwards, infrastructure and telecom
budgets under Abdullah have increased on average of 30 percent.  Abdullah is the sixth king to rule the country since it was
formed in 1932 by his father Abdulaziz Al-Saud. He conquered the
country through a series of military campaigns from near Riyadh.  “It is significant for Abdullah to leave his legacy,”
said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Institute for
Near East and Gulf Military analysis in Dubai. “The
infrastructure network is just one of many feats that helps to
strengthen and solidify the Saudi state.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  