-- Sberbank Said to Shutter Troika Dialog Brokerage in Kazakhstan
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2013-02-05T08:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/sberbank-said-to-shutter-troika-dialog-brokerage-in-kazakhstan.html
OAO Sberbank,  Russia ’s largest
lender, is halting equities operations in Kazakhstan as margins
shrink and the banking regulator tightens capital requirements,
according to three people with knowledge of the matter.  Sberbank will close brokerage operations while continuing
to offer investment banking in the Central Asian nation after
integrating the local unit of Troika Dialog, said the people who
asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public.
The state-run lender bought Troika, Moscow’s oldest brokerage,
last year. Troika Dialog Kazakhstan’s license won’t be renewed,
they said.  Sberbank’s press services in Moscow and Almaty didn’t
respond to e-mailed and phoned requests for comment.  The Kazakhstan Stock Exchange’s equities index was the
fifth worst performing of 94 major gauges tracked by Bloomberg
last year, slumping 14 percent. The central bank is imposing
stricter rules on minimal capital and trading volumes that are
forcing some smaller boutiques to close. The number of
brokerages will drop to about 10 from 44 at the start of 2012,
according to Orken Invest Jsc, one of the casualties.  Kazakhstan is embarking on the biggest sale of state assets
since the nation of more than 16 million people won independence
two decades ago. The so-called People’s IPO program may spur
demand for financial services and generate a windfall in
commissions for the few brokerages left, according to Damir Seisebayev, managing director of Orken.  Pension Money  At the same time, Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev has
ordered the creation of a single, state-run pension fund to
consolidate 3.2 trillion tenge of assets now managed by 11
funds, cutting the number of potential clients for brokerages  Most of Troika’s staff in Almaty, the Kazakh financial
center, will be offered positions within Sberbank, the people
said. Troika has about 10 people there. Sberbank entered
Kazakhstan in 2006 after buying Texakabank, a Kazakh-American
lender, and now has a 5 percent market share and over 10,000
corporate clients in the country, according to its website.  In Ukraine, Sberbank also plans to combine and trim
Troika’s local unit, two of the people said. Sberbank integrated
Troika’s Russian business last year.  Renaissance Capital, the Moscow-based investment bank owned
by Russian billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , closed its sales,
trading and research in Almaty and Kiev last year as business
slumped.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  