-- Serbia Needs IMF by March to Anchor Budget, Vuckovic Says
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-02-05T14:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/serbia-needs-imf-by-march-to-anchor-budget-vuckovic-says.html
Serbia  needs a new agreement with the
 International Monetary Fund  to anchor its public finances and
convince foreign companies to invest in the country, a member of
the nation’s Fiscal Council said.  A new IMF loan accord should be in place “by early
spring” or the finances “might get out of control,” council
member Vladimir Vuckovic said at a briefing in Belgrade today.  “Even though debt financing has become cheaper both in
domestic and foreign markets, and even though the first step of
fiscal consolidation was successful, we should not be
deceived,” Vuckovic said. “We need the IMF on our side,
because the situation in international markets can easily
change.”  Serbia and the IMF agreed in November to resume talks on a
possible loan this spring, as the Washington-based lender called
for measures to cut government debt without choking growth. The
lender said Serbia’s fiscal gap was unsustainably large, public
debt significant, inflation volatile and unemployment elevated.  An IMF technical mission is expected to arrive in Belgrade
“soon” to check fundamentals and a fully-mandated negotiating
team would follow to define the terms of a new program, he said.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s six-month-old Cabinet has
taken advantage of the “abundance of cash in international
markets” to lower the cost of borrowing and bolster the dinar
at a time when inflation tops 10 percent, Vuckovic said.  “Due to risks in the country, or abroad, the inflow may
become outflow” and undermine “perceived stability of the
currency” triggering a “sudden and explosive” dinar fall, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net ;
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  