-- Serbia Raises Benchmark Rate in Battle to Curb Inflation
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-02-05T16:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/serbia-raises-benchmark-rate-in-battle-to-curb-inflation.html
Serbia’s central bank unexpectedly
raised borrowing costs for a second time this year as it battles
to bring  Europe ’s second-highest inflation rate back to its
target band.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije boosted the  one-
week repurchase rate  by a quarter-point to 11.75 percent, its
eighth increase in nine meetings. Nine of 22 economists in a
Bloomberg  survey  predicted a rate increase of between a quarter-
point and a full percentage point. Twelve forecast no change and
one saw a 25 basis-point cut.  Serbian rate-setters are running counter to other
authorities in eastern Europe, where borrowing costs are falling
to halt economic slowdowns amid the debt crisis. The central
bank is trying to slow inflation to its target band of 2.5
percent to 5.5 percent this year after prices jumped 12.2
percent in 2012.  “The NBS is certainly winning the battle in terms of
trying to show which central bank in the region is the most
hawkish,” Timothy Ash, chief emerging-markets economist with
Standard Bank Plc in  London , wrote to clients today. “I sense
herein the NBS is still struggling a bit with the credibility
gap after recent changes at the top, and wants to prove that it
is fully independent, and to do whatever it takes to break the
back of inflation and the still wide current-account deficit.”  Dinar Advances  The dinar has advanced because of tight monetary policy,
with the central bank raising its benchmark  interest rate  seven
times since June by a total of 2 percentage points to 11.5
percent, to bring inflation back to the target of 4 percent,
plus or minus 1.5 percentage points by the end of 2013.  The unit gained 1.2 percent against the euro last month,
the second-largest advance behind the Romanian leu among more
than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It traded at 111.3443
at 4:44 p.m. in Belgrade, up from 111.5296 before the decision.  The central bank is concerned with the impact of a 9.3
percent gas price increase this month and an electricity price
hike of 10 percent to 12 percent, UniCredit Research economist
Carlos Ortiz said in a note to investors after the rate
announcement. With inflation “likely to peak” in the first
quarter at about 15 percent, another quarter-point increase may
come next month, he said.  “The monetary-policy reaction is directed at preventing a
spillover effect from higher regulated prices on other prices,”
the central bank said today in an e-mailed statement.  Containing Inflation  The National Bank of  Serbia  expects low comparable
inflation figures from last year and higher regulated prices to
weigh on inflation in the coming period. With the arrival of the
new farming season, the central bank expects to see the full
impact of “monetary-policy measures taken so far,” with
inflation returning to the target by the end of 2013.  The central bank expects the stable dinar, weakening
inflationary expectations as well as low aggregate demand to
have “a strong disinflationary impact in the coming period,”
according to today’s statement.  Inflation has been accelerating since April 2012, when it
fell to a 30-year low of 2.7 percent, due to rising food costs
amid a drop in farm output. Prices continued to rise even as the
economy fell into its second recession in three years and
consumer demand contracted as wages remained tame and
unemployment expanded.  “We believe that the peak in rates will be around 12
percent,” Societe Generale emerging-market analysts including
Guillaume Salomon in London, said in a note to investors today.  Price Increases  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s six-month-old coalition
government is seeking to curb price increases and restart growth
after the economy contracted an estimated 1.7 percent in 2012,
betting on higher exports of Fiat SpA cars produced in Serbia
and more sales of crude oil products abroad for growth.  His Cabinet, dominated by the Socialists of late strongman
 Slobodan Milosevic  and former nationalists who together ruled in
the late 1990s, when Serbia faced sanctions, bouts of hyper-
inflation and currency denominations, is keen to prove it can
keep the dinar stable in an economy where 70 percent of all
transactions is still in euros.  Serbian monetary policy tightening also included a re-
introduction of reverse repo operations in December, with policy
makers keen on mopping up excess liquidity to avoid an impact on
demand, inflation and the dinar’s exchange rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  