-- Shirakawa Accelerates BOJ Exit as Abe Presses for Stimulus
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-02-06T09:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/shirakawa-accelerates-exit-from-boj-as-abe-presses-for-stimulus.html
Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  will step down on March 19, almost three weeks before
his term was due, accelerating a leadership transition that may
aid Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe ’s campaign for aggressive easing.  Shirakawa, 63, will exit the same day as two deputy
governors, he told reporters in Tokyo yesterday. He was
scheduled to leave on April 8. Japan’s currency slid, adding to
losses against the dollar since Abe’s administration took office
in December on a platform of greater monetary stimulus and a
reversal of yen strength that hurts export competitiveness.  The outgoing governor assured the stability of Japan’s
financial system with liquidity injections during the global
credit crisis, and again in the wake of the record March 2011
earthquake and tsunami. At the same time, his failure to end the
nation’s trenchant  deflation  stoked criticism from lawmakers,
and ministers have pledged a replacement who shares Abe’s
determination to end price declines.  “It’s the equivalent of waving a white flag for
unconditional surrender,” said  Shuichi Obata , senior economist
at Nomura Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Shirakawa didn’t share the
the government’s view that the central bank is responsible for
ending deflation.”  The yen fell to its weakest level in almost three years
against the dollar and euro today, while the Nikkei closed at
the highest since September 2008. At 5:53 p.m. in Tokyo, the yen
was at 93.74 per dollar, after earlier touching 94.06, and the
Nikkei closed up 3.8 percent.  ‘No Pressure’  “There was no pressure at all from the government, this
was my own decision,” Shirakawa told reporters last night after
a meeting with Abe, saying it was not an act of protest. He said
he made the decision yesterday so that the central bank’s new
leadership could start together.  The short-list to replace him is probably composed of Asian
Development Bank President  Haruhiko Kuroda  and former BOJ Deputy
Governors  Kazumasa Iwata  and  Toshiro Muto , according to  Masaaki Kanno , chief economist at JPMorgan Securities Japan Co., who
used to work at the central bank, writing in a note last month.  “The appointment of the next governor and deputies will be
at the top of the government’s agenda now,” Kanno said
yesterday.  Global Shake-up  Shirakawa’s exit is part of a global changing of the guard,
with Canada’s  Mark Carney  to take the helm of the Bank of
England in July. In China, Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  will step
down next month, the China Securities Journal said Feb. 2. In
the U.S.,  Janet Yellen  may be a candidate to replace Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  at the Federal Reserve a year from now.  Abe has repeatedly said that he wants the BOJ to take
responsibility for the 2 percent inflation target it agreed to
set last month. His government has defined ending deflation as
central to efforts to revive the world’s third-biggest economy.  The central bank may be set for “a really fundamental
policy shift,” said  Richard Jerram , chief economist at Bank of
Singapore Ltd., who has analyzed Asian economies for two
decades. “When you have three new people in charge, they
basically start from scratch.”  While the central bank last month announced plans for
Federal Reserve-style open-ended asset purchases, they aren’t
due to start until January 2014. The deputy governors leaving
are  Kiyohiko Nishimura  and  Hirohide Yamaguchi .  ‘Bold’ Action  “Shirakawa’s resignation will likely push forward the
timing of bold monetary easing action,” said  Akito Fukunaga ,
chief rates strategist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo, a
unit of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Abe’s sway has highlighted the risk of an erosion of the
BOJ’s independence, with the biggest opposition party signaling
that Abe could face resistance in getting his nominee for
governor confirmed in the Diet.  “The BOJ’s independence must be guaranteed,”  Mitsuru Sakurai , policy chief for the Democratic Party of Japan, said in
an interview on Jan. 29. “We need someone who can do that.”  The DPJ lost power in the December election little more
than three years after ending the Liberal Democratic Party’s
half century of domination of Japanese politics. The DPJ
yesterday released a statement reiterating Sakurai’s comments.  Abe needs opposition support to ensure his nominees are
approved in parliament’s upper chamber, where his LDP lacks a
majority.  Weak Economy  Japan’s economy shrank in the second and third quarters of
last year. The median forecast  in a survey of economists  by
Bloomberg News is for a 0.5 percent annualized expansion in the
three months through December, up from a forecast 0.6 percent
contraction in a survey last month.  Shirakawa during his tenure has emphasized that ending two
decades of deflation isn’t something the central bank can do on
its own. He also consistently warned against keeping interest
rates too low for too long, with the risk that it plants the
seeds for asset bubbles.  Abe, by contrast, identified ending deflation as a priority
during the campaign.  Falling prices  reduce the incentives to
borrow and invest in new business projects, erode tax receipts
and increase the attractiveness of saving in cash rather than
spending or putting money into stocks or bonds.  The yen surged as other central banks stepped up monetary
stimulus and Europe’s debt crisis drove investment into assets
seen as safe havens, eroding Japan’s export competitiveness. A
report last week showed manufacturing employment fell below 10
million for the first time since 1961. The yen reached a postwar
high of 75.35 per dollar in October 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  