-- Siemens Tackles U.S. Skills Gap with Apprenticeships
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2013-02-05T13:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/siemens-tackles-u-s-skills-gap-with-apprenticeships.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  said it had to start
extensive apprenticeship programs in the U.S. as a shortfall of
adequately qualified workers made it difficult to staff its gas-
turbine factory in  North Carolina .  “This is really helping to fill the skills gap that we’ve
seen,” Siemens’ head of U.S. operations Eric Spiegel said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television today. “We’ve also worked
closely with one of the local universities to develop our
engineers who can help us in our gas plant.”  The management board of  Europe ’s biggest engineering
company is meeting in the U.S. this week to examine how to
benefit from the increased use of hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, of shale rock to extract natural gas. The  Charlotte 
gas-turbine plant, which Spiegel said has taken on at least 800
new workers since its opening in March 2010, will eventually
employ more than 1,800 when completed.  An estimated 7.67 trillion cubic feet of U.S. natural gas
was extracted using fracking in the U.S. last year. That’s 17
times more than a decade earlier, according to the Energy
Information Administration, which forecast production will reach
13.6 trillion cubic feet in 2035, accounting for 49 percent of
gas output.  “We see this as a big driver of growth over the next few
years,” Spiegel said in the interview, which was carried out
jointly with Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher . “Our
managing board is over here from  Germany  this week, taking a
look at how we can take advantage of this opportunity.”  Taking Advantage  Siemens, based in Munich, generated 21 percent of its
annual 78.3 billion-euro ($106 billion) revenue in the U.S. with
about 57,000 employees at the end of September.  Siemens has tied up with the  University of North Carolina ’s
Energy Production and Infrastructure Center, where it funds
scholarships, and the  Central Piedmont Community College ,
according to the company website. The generators and turbines
produced at the Charlotte site range from 150 megawatts to 1,600
megawatts in size.  The company also has recruited high school students to work
part-time at the Charlotte facility, Spiegel said.  Siemens is seeking to boost profitability, which has lagged
that of competitors  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  for six
consecutive quarters. The company last month said quarterly
profit across the company’s four core business sectors increased
4.4 percent to 1.7 billion euros, driven by a 12 percent
increase at the energy unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  