-- Singapore Police to Work With Soccer Match-Fixing Probe
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-02-06T08:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/singapore-police-to-work-with-european-soccer-match-fixing-probe.html
Police in Singapore are cooperating
with a European law enforcement investigation into the attempted
fixing of 680 professional soccer matches.  Europol said two days ago a Singapore-based operation tried
to fix games across the continent, including World Cup and
European Championship qualifiers, to generate more than 8
million euros ($10.9 million) in profit. An 18-month
investigation, Operation VETO, found 425 match officials, club
executives, players and criminals in 15 countries worked to
cheat in more than 380 matches.  “We are working with the overseas authorities,” Ho Yenn
Dar, assistant director of media relations at the Singapore
Police Force, told reporters in the city-state today, declining
to comment if any individuals are being investigated, charged or
arrested by local or overseas authorities. “We are also working
with local authorities like Corrupt Practices Investigation
Bureau in such cases.”  The probe has led to several prosecutions, including 14
people in Germany being convicted and sentenced to 39 years in
prison, according to Europol.  World Cup  World Cup and European Championship qualifiers, two
Champions League matches and several top-flight games in
European national leagues were among the suspicious matches
identified, Europol said. Another 300 outside Europe, mainly in
Africa, Asia, and South and Central America, may also have been
targeted.  The Singapore police force said in an e-mailed statement
late yesterday that it’s assisting European authorities with the
match-fixing syndicate that “purportedly involves
Singaporeans.”  “Singapore takes a strong stance against match-fixing and
is committed to working with international enforcement agencies
to bring down transnational criminal syndicates, including those
that involve the acts of Singaporeans overseas, and protect the
integrity of the sport,” according to the statement.  Goalkeeper Banned  Hungarian club Debrecen said yesterday that its 2009
Champions League matches at Liverpool and at home to Fiorentina
had been investigated and that European soccer’s governing body
UEFA had disciplined goalkeeper Vukasin Poleksic in 2010 for not
reporting approaches from fixers before those games.  Poleksic was banned for two years and fined 10,000 euros,
although  UEFA’s sanction  only specified the Fiorentina match.  “The UEFA disciplinary committee’s position was that
Vukasin Poleksic neglected his obligations when he didn’t report
in time that, before two Champions League matches of DVSC,
unknown persons attempted to persuade him to influence the
outcome of the match,” Debrecen said in a  statement  on its
website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  