-- Slovenia Pensioner Party Leaves Premier Jansa's Coalition
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-02-05T13:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/slovenia-pensioner-party-leaves-premier-jansa-s-coalition.html
The Slovenian Democratic Party of
Pensioners quit Prime Minister  Janez Jansa ’s four-party
coalition, raising the risk the nation will hold a second round
of early elections in a year and be forced to seek a bailout.  The party, led by Karl Erjavec, decided to leave the
government because of corruption allegations against Jansa, the
party said on its website today. The Citizens List already
dropped out of the group last month and another partner has
threatened to do the same, leaving Jansa short of 46 votes in
the 90-member Parliament to pass legislation. Jansa has vowed he
will continue as premier even with a minority Cabinet.  An early vote would derail the government’s plan for an
economic overhaul, including the recapitalization of the
nation’s banks such as Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and force the
nation that adopted the euro six years ago to seek an
international rescue package. Erjavec, who steps down as foreign
minister on Feb. 22, said today he was given a mandate by the
party to try and form a technical administration.  “The opposition is still struggling to put a rival
coalition together and Jansa seems to be happy to tough it out
in a minority capacity and continue to legislate and this could
all drag on for some time,” Timothy Ash, an  emerging markets 
economist at Standard Bank Plc. in  London  wrote in a note to
clients today. “Watch for the risk of ratings downgrades, and
the  Finance Ministry  will need to think of coming to market
sometime in the first half of the year.”  Sale Risk  Jansa took over the Finance Ministry on Feb. 1 after Janez Sustersic resigned since he’s a member of the Citizens List.  A benchmark bond sale may be at risk after Jansa overruled
Sustersic on the debt-sale plan for this year of as much as 4.5
billion euros ($6.09 billion). Dejan Krusec, who was deputy
finance minister before stepping down, said in a Jan. 15
interview that Slovenia plans to sell debt “sooner, rather than
later.”  The yield on Slovenia’s dollar-denominated debt maturing in
2022 was little changed from yesterday at 5.14 percent at 2:57
p.m. in Ljubljana, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Adriatic nation is rated Baa2 at Moody’s Investors
Service, the second lowest investment grade while  Standard &
Poor’s  gives it an A and  Fitch Ratings  an A-. All three
companies have a negative outlook on the sovereign.  Slovenia held an early vote in December 2011 after the
collapse of the government of Premier Borut Pahor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  