-- South Africa Faces Tax Dilemma as Mining Industry Costs Soar
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-02-05T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/south-africa-faces-tax-dilemma-as-mining-industry-costs-soar.html
South Africa ’s government faces a
dilemma: how to help mining companies weather surging costs and
depressed commodity prices as the ruling  African National
Congress  seeks to wring more revenue from the industry.  Upheaval has plagued platinum and gold producers since
August last year, when thousands of workers staged a series of
illegal strikes, winning pay increases of as much as 22 percent.
Adding to mining costs, Eskom Holdings Ltd., which supplies
about 95 percent of South  Africa ’s power, is seeking 16 percent
average annual tariff increases until 2018 to fund expansion.  While Mining Minister Susan Shabangu says the government is
committed to working with the industry, the ruling ANC wants the
country to derive greater benefit from its minerals. At a
conference in December, the party said a “resource-rent” tax,
or higher royalties, were under consideration.  “I’m quite worried,”  Nick Holland , the chief executive
officer of  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , Africa’s No. 2 gold producer, said
in an interview yesterday at the Investing in African Mining
Indaba, a gathering of more than 7,500 industry executives. “We
can ill afford to accept any taxes beyond what we have. It’s
just going to increase the speed of the decline of the  mining
industry .”  Mining output slumped 11 percent on a seasonally adjusted
basis in the three months through November from the prior three
months, government data show. Nine loss-making platinum-mine
shafts were shut in the second half of 2012, according to the
Department of Mineral Resources, while  Anglo American Platinum
Ltd. (AMS) , the largest producer, last month announced plans to idle
four shafts, which may result in as many as 14,000 job losses.  Metals Decline  The government needs “to more get involved in discussions
with mining on what we do, how we’re doing it, without jumping
to conclusions,” Harmony Gold Mining Co. CEO Graham Briggs said
in an interview yesterday. “If you meet and you understand and
you’re not on opposing sides of the table, you can be quite
successful.”  Platinum has fallen 26 percent since reaching a record high
of $2,301.50 in March 2008 as a global economic slowdown crimped
demand from carmakers, the biggest consumer of the metal.
Platinum has gained 11 percent this year while gold has advanced
0.1 percent, insufficient to compensate for rising input costs.  “We have seen several years in which levels of demand for
platinum have fallen significantly short of the industry’s
expectations,”  Cynthia Carroll , the departing CEO of  Anglo
American Plc (AGL) , which controls Anglo American Platinum, told the
conference. “At the same time, costs have continued to rise
relentlessly. This is an industry in crisis. And the near-term
future shows no sign of respite.”  GDP Contribution  South Africa has the world’s largest known reserves of
platinum and chrome, and is the continent’s biggest gold
producer. The mining industry directly employs about 500,000
people, makes up about 9 percent of  gross domestic product  and
accounts for two-thirds of exports.  At its national conference in December, the ANC rejected
proposals to nationalize mines in favor of a tax review. “There
will be tax; what form it will take is a matter for the
administration,” Enoch Godongwana, head of the party’s economic
transformation committee, said at the time.  Since March 2010, mining companies have paid royalties tax
based on sales in addition to income tax, with the rate varying
depending on the type of mineral.  “We have got a very efficient tax regime here,” Peter Major, head of mining at Cape Town-based Cadiz Corporate
Solutions, said in an interview yesterday. “I just don’t
understand why the government would want to change that. The
problem here is they are just not getting enough from taxes
because the companies aren’t making enough money.”  ‘Not Given’  While the ANC draws up broad policy frameworks, the
National Treasury will ultimately determine what taxes the
mining industry should pay, Shabangu said.  “It can’t be a given” that taxes will go up, she said in
an interview yesterday. “We will come up with a tax
dispensation that will work for the country. If we are unable to
apply our minds and make sure that our tax regime becomes a
successful and thriving regime, in allowing and attracting
investment in South Africa, then the same ANC will say we have
acted in an irresponsible way.”  Last month, South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan 
said there would be no imminent changes to mining taxes.  “We will keep the matter under review and when we think
it’s appropriate we’ll see how the regime needs to change,” he
said in an interview on Bloomberg TV at the  World Economic Forum 
in Davos,  Switzerland .  Limited Options  Even so, the government has limited options to raise
revenue as declining mining output stalls growth and it faces
mounting pressure to cut a 25 percent  unemployment  rate. The
country also has to address income disparities that rank among
the highest in the world.  “We need to talk about the implications of doing anything
around taxation because we’ve got enough,” Anglo American’s
Carroll said in an interview. “The mining inflation in this
country is very, very high and you can’t keep piling it on with
everything else going up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Burkhardt in Cape Town at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  