-- Ravens Boding Well for Stocks as Original Browns
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-02-05T21:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/stocks-rise-with-baltimore-from-nfl-except-2001-when-bet-failed.html
The future of  American equities  may
be riding on whether the Baltimore Ravens lineage as a successor
to the  Cleveland  Browns makes them an original member of the
National Football League.  U.S.  stocks  do better when the Super Bowl champion can
trace its beginnings to the NFL rather than the American
Football League, according to Robert Stovall, managing director
and market strategist at Wood Asset Management, who started
tracking the data more than two decades ago. The Ravens’ 34-31
win over the San Francisco 49ers on Feb. 3 presents a puzzle.
The Cleveland Browns, which joined the NFL in 1950, moved to
Baltimore in 1996 and were renamed the Ravens.  While U.S. stocks yesterday posted the  biggest drop  of the
year, the Ravens pedigree is good news for the market in 2013,
according to Stovall, who said the indicator is right about 80
percent of the time. In last year’s Super Bowl, the New York
Giants, a member of the NFL since 1925, defeated the New England
Patriots, who were part of the AFL as the Boston Patriots in the
1960s. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rallied 13 percent in
2012.  “Would I put my own money in the market based on the
outcome of a game? Well, that wouldn’t be the only reason,”
Stovall said. “But it makes me feel better to know the Super
Bowl predictor is on my side, namely pointing upward this
year.”  Super Bowl  The last time the Ravens won the Super Bowl, beating the
Giants in 2001, the S&P 500 slumped 15 percent through the end
of the year. The U.S. equity benchmark advanced 1 percent to
1,511.29 today for the biggest gain in a month.  Stovall’s methodology doesn’t always work. When the Giants
beat the Patriots in 2008, the S&P 500 posted the biggest drop
since 1937 with a 38 percent plunge as the U.S. housing market
 collapsed  and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went bankrupt.  The Ravens’ history began when they got to Baltimore and
considering them heirs to the Browns is wrong, according to Andy Brooks, head of U.S. equity trading at Baltimore-based T. Rowe
Price Group Inc. He said the indicator doesn’t apply this year,
even though he expects U.S.  equities  will continue to rise.  Baltimore’s Team  “We’re Baltimore’s team,” said Brooks in a phone
interview. His firm oversees $576 billion. “We have no claim on
the Browns whatsoever. The Cleveland Browns’ tradition,
including the indicator, remains in Cleveland.”  The S&P 500 will climb 3.2 percent to finish the year at
1,543, according to the average of 15 Wall Street strategists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The U.S. equity benchmark slid 1.2
percent yesterday on concern that the  European debt crisis  may
intensify.  Browns owner Art Modell reached an agreement to move the
franchise to Baltimore in November 1995 with the promise of a
new 70,000-seat stadium. Following lawsuits from both cities
about the fate of the team, an agreement was reached in February
1996 that allowed the move while keeping every aspect of the
team’s history in Cleveland. The Ravens franchise was born with
former Browns players.  While the Ravens can be considered an offshoot of the
Browns, investors shouldn’t take the indicator too seriously,
according to Bruce McCain, chief investment strategist at the
private-banking unit of KeyCorp in Cleveland. His firm oversees
$20 billion. He said stock returns will be “decent” this year.  “It just adds a little bit of fun to the market and gives
people a reason to speculate on things,” McCain, who attended
the University of California at Berkeley and was rooting for the
49ers, said by phone. “If there are people who take
encouragement from it, so much the better for the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  