-- Sugar Seen Falling More to Boost Ethanol Output, Cut Surplus
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-02-05T18:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/sugar-seen-falling-more-to-boost-ethanol-output-and-curb-surplus.html
Sugar may fall another 6 percent in
 New York  this year and prompt millers in Brazil, the world’s
largest producer, to make more ethanol from cane at the expense
of the sweetener, helping curb the global surplus.  Raw sugar futures traded in New York will drop to 17.66
cents a pound this year, according to the mean of 27 analyst and
traders estimates compiled by Bloomberg at the Kingsman sugar
conference in Dubai this week. Ethanol production in Brazil’s
center south will climb 14 percent in the 2013-14 marketing year
that starts there in April, according to Brazil-based Copersucar
SA, which produces sugar and ethanol.  Sugar has dropped 4.1 percent this year on top of losses of
39 percent the past two years as global production overwhelmed
demand.  Brazil ’s sales of hydrous ethanol, used in flex fuel
cars and made from cane, have dropped for three years in a row
because it’s been uncompetitive to gasoline, according to New
Energy Finance. The 2012-13 sugar surplus that ends in September
will be the third straight surplus, Macquarie Group Ltd. said
last month. If prices keep falling this year, it would be the
third annual decline and longest slump since 1992.  “If you want to eliminate sucrose, you have to consume it
or you either sell it to somebody and he has to want to use
it,” said Jonathan Drake, chief operating officer of Singapore-
based trader RCMA Commodities Asia Ltd. and former head of sugar
at Cargill Inc. “You have to give people confidence that people
are using hydrous ethanol again because hydrous ethanol was the
product that no one wanted to make, nobody wanted to use, nobody
wanted to sell and therefore consumption collapsed.”  Olam Estimate  Raw sugar for March delivery fell 0.1 percent to 18.72
cents a pound at 1:03 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York. The
2012-13 surplus is estimated by Singapore trader  Olam
International Ltd. (OLAM)  at about 10 million metric tons. Macquarie
puts the surplus for 2013-14 at 3.53 million tons.  Hydrous ethanol sales in Brazil last year dropped to 8.9
billion liters (2.4 billion gallons), the lowest since 2006,
according to Roberto Rodriguez Labastida, senior bioenergy
analyst at New Energy Finance, owned by Bloomberg LP, in  London .
Hydrous ethanol costs were too high to be competitive with
gasoline at the pump, he said.  Sugar millers in Brazil’s center south, the country’s main
growing area, will direct 47.5 percent of this year’s cane crop
to make sugar, down from 49 percent last year as demand for
ethanol is set to increase, according to Copersucar. Ethanol
production will climb to 24 billion liters (6.34 billion
gallons) rom 21 billion liters, it said.  Louis Dreyfus  Sugar production in Brazil’s center south will climb to a
record 35 million to 37 million metric tons in 2013-14, said
Mike Gorrell, head of Imperial Sugar Co., a unit of Louis
Dreyfus Commodities BV.  Current sugar production estimates in Brazil may change if
the government takes more measures to stimulate ethanol demand,
which include removing taxes on the biofuel, producers
Copersucar,  Sao Martinho SA (SMTO3)  and Raizen, said in separate
interviews in Dubai.  If taxes are removed, the so-called ethanol parity, or the
level at which millers favor the biofuel, would climb to 19
cents to 20 cents a pound from 17 cents to 18 cents now, said
Paulo Roberto de Souza, chief executive officer at Sao Paulo-
based Copersucar.  Petrobras  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, said last week it increased gasoline prices at
refineries by 6.6 percent last week, helping boost demand for
hydrous ethanol. The government also said it will raise the
amount of anhydrous ethanol blended into gasoline to 25 percent
in May from 20 percent now.  “Who said the current measures are the only ones the
government will take,” said Ivan Melo, a commercial director at
Raizen. “If the government takes more steps that give the
incentive for hydrous ethanol consumption, the shorts will need
to start getting worried,” he said. Traders with short
positions, or bets on lower sugar prices in New York,
outnumbered longs, or bets on higher prices, as of Jan. 29, U.S.
government figures show.  In the survey, 16 of the 27 people who said they consider
themselves bears gave a mean low for prices this year of 16.58
cents a pound. The two bulls said prices will rise to 20.3 cents
a pound while the nine people who said they are neutral gave an
average of 19 cents a pound for this year.  Sugar may need to fall to 16 cents a pound for an extended
period of time for Brazilian millers to produce ethanol, RCMA’s
Drake said. A push to more ethanol output in Brazil could reduce
the center south’s sugar output in 2013-14 by 5 million tons to
31 million tons, according to Copersucar. More ethanol could
erase the sugar surplus within 18 months, Drake said.  Sugar and ethanol prices need to converge to burn some of
the global sugar stockpiles, Imperial Sugar’s Gorrell said. For
millers in Brazil to favor ethanol, prices will need to fall to
16 cents or 17 cents a pound, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  