-- Super Bowl Blackout Wasn’t Caused by Cyberattack
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-02-05T20:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/super-bowl-blackout-wasn-t-caused-by-cyberattack.html
Entergy Corp. (ETR)  has ruled out a
cyberattack as a cause of the blackout that interrupted the
 Super Bowl .  “After a thorough and extensive review of our equipment and
operating systems, Entergy has ruled out the possibility of the
power outage being caused by a cyber event,”  Michael Burns , a
spokesman for New Orleans-based Entergy, said today in a
telephone interview.  There was no Internet or remote computer access to the
piece of equipment inside the stadium that sensed an abnormality
in the electrical system and partially cut power to the
Superdome, Burns said. The nine workers who were monitoring the
so-called electrical switchgear equipment found no evidence of
either a cyber or physical attack, Burns said.  Entergy, the Louisiana Stadium and Exposition District and
SMG, the New Orleans Superdome manager, will hire an independent
third-party expert to probe the cause of the  power failure , the
companies and district said today in a joint statement.  About half of the lights at the facility, which held 71,024
fans for the last NFL game of the season, went dark early in the
third quarter of what is historically the most-watched
television program in the U.S. every year. The failure halted
play for 34 minutes.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  had “no intelligence
to indicate the  power outage  was the result of a cyberattack or
a threat of terrorism of any kind,” Mary Beth Romig, a
spokeswoman for the FBI’s New Orleans Division, said in an e-
mail statement.  The blackout doesn’t fit the profile of an attack from a
terrorist or nation-state, which probably would have been
designed to cause widespread panic by shutting off all the
lights, James Arlen, a utility security consultant at Leviathan
Security Group, said in a telephone interview. If it was a cyber
prank or activist hacker, they would “probably want to do
something far more interesting like flicking the lights on and
off,” Arlen said.  “There is a far greater chance that it was something like
a rat fell and touched two conductors simultaneously and that
was just enough to cause a blip in the power field,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  