-- U.K. Triple-Dip Worries Ebb as Services Unexpectedly Grow
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-02-05T11:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/u-k-services-unexpectedly-grow-at-fastest-pace-in-four-months.html
U.K.  services  unexpectedly grew at
the fastest pace in four months in January, indicating the
economy may avoid an unprecedented triple-dip recession.  A  gauge  of activity surged to 51.5, the highest since
September, from 48.9 in December, Markit Economics and the
Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply said in London
today. Economists had forecast an increase to 49.5, according to
the median of 33 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey . A reading
above 50 indicates expansion. Another report showed  euro-area
services  shrank less than initially estimated in January.  Coupled with a Feb. 1 report showing U.K. manufacturing
continued to expand last month, today’s survey adds to signs of
a recovery after  gross domestic product  fell 0.3 percent in the
fourth quarter. Bank of England policy makers, who begin their
monthly two-day meeting tomorrow, will keep their  bond-purchase
program  on hold at 375 billion pounds ($590 billion) on Feb. 7,
according to all 43 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “With the manufacturing index also in expansion territory,
despite bad weather having provided some disruption, it looks
more likely that the U.K. will post a modestly positive GDP
reading for the first quarter,” said James Knightley, an
economist at ING Bank NV in London. “Nonetheless, the data is
volatile and confidence is fragile.”  The pound was little changed against the dollar today and
traded at $1.5754 as of 11:44 a.m. London time. Bonds declined,
pushing the yield on the benchmark 10-year U.K. gilt up 5 basis
points to 2.13 percent.  Confidence Rises  Markit said new business and confidence at services
companies rose in January and payrolls increased the most in six
months. There were also signs of continuing  price pressures ,
with input-price inflation accelerating and output-price
inflation at the highest in 1 1/2 years.  Services growth would have been even stronger in January
without the impact of cold weather that led to heavy snowfalls
across most of the country, according to Markit.  “A huge sigh of relief accompanies these numbers,” said
Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit in London. “A
return to growth of the service sector in January greatly
reduces the likelihood of the U.K. falling back into a triple-
dip recession.”  ‘Hold Fire’  As well as leaving the target of its quantitative-easing
program on hold this week, the BOE’s Monetary Policy Committee
will keep its  benchmark interest rate  at a record low of 0.5
percent.  “The MPC was already widely expected to hold fire at
Thursday’s meeting and the improvement in this closely-watched
survey now makes that more likely,” said Vicky Redwood, an
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “However, the
committee’s pause may not last for long. Business surveys will
have to rise a lot further before they are consistent with the
reasonable recovery that the MPC expects to get going soon.”  Earlier today, Australia’s central bank held its  benchmark
interest rate  at the half-century low reached in 2009 and said
it has room to cut to a record as a weak labor market contains
inflation.  “The inflation outlook, as assessed at present, would
afford scope to ease policy further, should that be necessary to
support demand,” Governor Glenn Stevens said in a statement
after leaving the overnight cash-rate target at 3 percent.
“Looking ahead, with the labor market softening somewhat and
unemployment edging higher, conditions are working to contain
pressure on labor costs.”  ‘Marginal’ Growth  Markit’s U.K.  manufacturing index  published on Feb. 1
slipped to 50.8 in January from 51.2 in December, while a
construction gauge held at 48.7, the third month of contraction.
A composite measure based on the three surveys is consistent
with the economy growing “marginally” in January, Markit said.  The National Institute of Economic and Social Research cut
its 2013 growth forecast today and said the economy is at risk
of a prolonged stagnation. It sees GDP rising 0.7 percent
instead of the 1.1 percent forecast in November, and 1.5 percent
in 2014.  The British Retail Consortium said retail sales rose 1.9
percent last month from a year earlier on a like-for-like basis.
Total sales increased 3 percent. The BRC said the figures may
indicate that “the mood is lifting a little for customers and
retailers” after a subdued Christmas.  Euro-Area Services  In a separate report today, Markit said its index of  euro-
area services  rose to 48.6 from 47.8 in December. That’s above
an initial estimate of 48.3 published on Jan. 24. A composite
gauge of euro-area services and manufacturing output improved to
48.6 from 47.2 in December, the report showed.  European  stocks  rebounded today from their biggest drop in
three months yesterday. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.7
percent, while the FTSE 100 Index also advanced 0.7 percent.  China’s  services industries  expanded at the fastest pace in
four months in January, according to a survey published today.
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit said their index rose to 54 from
51.7 in December. A separate government-backed survey published
on Feb. 3 showed services industries expanded at the fastest
pace since August.  In the U.S.,  service industries  probably grew in January at
about the same pace as the previous month. The Institute for
Supply Management’s non-manufacturing index was probably 55
after a reading of 55.7 in December, which was the highest level
in 10 months, according to the  median forecast  of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before a report due later today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  