-- U.K. Fails to Promote Defense Industry, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-02-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/u-k-fails-to-promote-defense-industry-lawmakers-say.html
Britain is failing to promote its
defense industry to the same extent as countries like  France 
because equipment-buying policy is more focused on getting value
for money than wider economic factors, lawmakers said.  The cross-party  House of Commons Defense Committee  urged
Prime Minister David Cameron’s government to reconsider its
strategy for defense procurement. It was critical of a decision
to change the type of fighter planes being ordered for new
aircraft carriers at short notice.  “We believe that the absence of a defense-industrial
strategy which supports appropriate national sovereignty puts
the U.K. at a disadvantage against competitor countries,” the
panel said in a report published in London today. “We do not
understand how we can have confidence in a national security
strategy which does not show a clear grasp of what is needed for
the defense of the United Kingdom, and how this can be
ensured.”  The committee recommended that the government “should take
into account in buying equipment the enhanced opportunities for
export of equipment in use by U.K. armed forces,” arguing that
such sales bring “significant benefits to the UK in terms of
employment opportunities, economies of scale and enhancement of
influence.”  The government’s 2010 decision to switch from the F-35B to
the F-35C variant of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s Joint Strike
Fighter, which later had to be reversed, was “taken at great
speed, without full consultation, and without the Ministry of
Defense understanding how it could be implemented nor how much
it would cost,” the panel’s chairman, Conservative lawmaker
James Arbuthnot, said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘At Risk’  “Industry has warned that, without a defense-industrial
strategy, tens of thousands of jobs are at risk,” Jim Murphy,
the opposition Labour Party’s defense spokesman said in an e-
mailed statement. “There is a loss of skills, contradictions in
export policy, worries over investment in science and no
strategy to support sovereign capabilities.”  He said any new industrial strategy must improve the speed
of procurement, share the burden of risk with industry, support
small businesses and strengthen collaboration between companies,
the defense ministry and the military.  “This government has worked tirelessly to eliminate the
multibillion pound black hole we inherited and transform the way
we fund and manage the delivery of military equipment,” Defense
Equipment Minister Philip Dunne said in an e-mailed statement.  “Our recently published 160-billion-pound ($252 billion)
10-year equipment plan will deliver fully funded hardware for
our armed forces, giving them much more certainty,” Dunne said.
“The increased financial contingency will help cover future
risk and make our equipment program affordable. There is also
greater information for industry about our priorities, helping
them to invest in the future capabilities our troops need.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  