-- U.S. Backs Opposition’s Offer to Talk to Syrian Regime
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-02-05T19:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/u-s-backs-opposition-s-offer-to-talk-to-syrian-regime.html
The U.S. said it strongly supports a
call by opposition leader Mouaz al-Khatib to open a dialogue
with members of President Bashar al-Assad’s government subject
to conditions, including the release of 160,000 detainees.  Al-Khatib, head of the Syrian National Coalition, told Al
Arabiya TV yesterday he was ready to meet Assad’s deputy, Farouk al-Shara, because since the start of the crisis he “has seen
that things were going in the wrong direction.”  Al-Khatib said his initiative aimed to stem violence that
has killed more than 60,000 people since the anti-Assad uprising
began in March 2011, according to estimates from the  United
Nations . Food aid will be provided to total of 2.5 million
Syrians in the country by the end of April, the  World Food
Program , a UN agency, said in an e-mailed statement today, 1
million more than at present.  Asked about al-Khatib’s offer, U.S. State Department
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland   said  yesterday the opposition leader
has “reiterated the offer that he’s been making for a number of
days, and which we very much welcome, that if the regime has any
interest in peace, it should sit down and talk now with the
Syrian opposition coalition, and we would strongly support al-
Khatib in that call.”  ‘Individual Decision’  One question was how much support al-Khatib’s initiative
has among the often fractious Syrian opposition. The Syrian
National Council dismissed al-Khatib’s proposal on its Facebook
page as an “individual decision” that “does not represent the
position and commitments of all powers” in the opposition.  The Syrian regime has defied forecasts of imminent
collapse, and no end to the conflict is in sight. A year ago,
Western leaders including then-French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  asserted Assad’s days were
numbered.  Government forces bombarded several neighborhoods and
battled rebel forces in Aleppo, the Syrian Observatory for  Human
Rights  said on its Facebook page. The army reinforced
checkpoints in the town of Khanaser and its surrounding area
outside of Aleppo, which they took control over yesterday after
violent clashes, the U.K.-based group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  