-- Deficit to Shrink Below $1 Trillion, U.S. Agency Predicts
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2013-02-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/u-s-deficit-to-shrink-below-1-trillion-agency-predicts.html
The federal budget deficit will total
$845 billion this year, the first time in five that the gap
between taxes and spending will be less than $1 trillion,
according to a government report.  A combination of budget cuts and economic growth will pare
the  deficit  to the lowest level since 2008, the Congressional
Budget Office said in its first comprehensive analysis of the
government’s finances since last month’s deal to put off the so-
called fiscal cliff. Next year’s gap will be $616 billion, the
nonpartisan agency said.  The long-term budget outlook nevertheless remains grim,
with baby boomers steadily swelling the ranks of Medicare and
Social Security beneficiaries, according to a CBO report. The
government will rack up at least $7 trillion in deficits over
the next decade, the agency said, pushing the  publicly held debt 
up to almost $20 trillion by 2023.  “Although modest progress has been made on short-term
fiscal issues, the CBO outlook shows us that the nation has by
no means solved its debt problem,” said Michael Peterson,
president of the Peter G. Peterson Foundation, which promotes
deficit reduction.  The CBO also said it anticipates economic growth will be
slow this year, with real gross domestic product rising by just
1.4 percent, in part because of budget-cutting in Washington. It
predicted faster growth next year, with the economy expanding by
3.4 percent. The  jobless rate  will remain above 7.4 percent
through next year, according to the CBO.  Budget Time  The agency’s biannual report issued yesterday arrives in
Congress just as lawmakers gear up for another round of battles
over deficits.  President  Barack Obama  is expected to submit his fiscal
2014 budget request to Congress in mid-March, according to a
budget official who requested anonymity to discuss the
administration’s plans in advance of a formal announcement.
House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican, and Senate Democrats will follow with their own
budget blueprints.  About $85 billion in automatic spending cuts, part of the
“fiscal cliff,” are set to begin March 1, and a stopgap
measure funding government operations for the first six months
of fiscal 2013 expires on March 27. The latest  debt-limit 
increase, which Obama signed into law Feb. 4, lapses May 19.  Democrats in the Senate, where their party holds a
majority, are meeting in Annapolis, Maryland, to discuss
strategies for coming budget showdowns. Obama, who has urged
Congress to postpone the cuts set to begin March 1, will address
the caucus today.  Republicans Balking  Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada has said that he wants
to pare back the automatic reductions, perhaps several months at
a time, with a combination of tax revenue increases and spending
curbs.  That’s what Congress did when it agreed to reduce the
automatic cuts to $85 billion from $110 billion, drawing from
both sides of the fiscal ledger.  Many Democrats now call that a template for future
agreements. Republicans are balking, and without some
compromise, the cuts will kick in.  The CBO analysis offers a yardstick against which lawmakers
can compare possible changes. The report “shows us how far we
have come towards restoring fiscal discipline and strengthening
our economy, while also reminding us that more work remains,”
said House Minority Whip  Steny Hoyer , a Maryland Democrat.  Reliable Forecast  The report is a more reliable guide than similar studies in
recent years because the almost $4 trillion fiscal-cliff deal
made longer-term fixes to a number of short-term tax and
spending policies that had made deficit-forecasting difficult.  For the next decade, the CBO projects government spending
at about $47 trillion while revenue will be about $40 trillion.  Receipts will rebound from recent lows, reflecting an
expanding economy, the end of reduced Social Security payroll
taxes and higher tax rates. By 2015, revenue will climb to 19.1
percent of GDP, above the historic average and the highest level
since 2001, according to the CBO. Republicans seized on those
figures to rebut Democrats’ demands for more revenue.  “In two years’ time, tax revenue will soar past the
historical average, but structural deficits will continue due to
runaway spending,” said Senator  Rob Portman , an Ohio
Republican. “More taxes won’t solve our deficit problems.”  Slower Growth  The agency said that health-care spending is growing less
quickly than anticipated. In 2012,  Medicare  costs rose by 3
percent, or $16 billion, the smallest annual gain since 2000.  This year, the expense is projected to climb 4 percent.
That has helped prompt the CBO to ratchet back its long-term
projections of Medicare and  Medicaid  spending by 15 percent
compared with what it had predicted three years ago.  It also said that the fiscal-cliff agreement will mean that
3 million additional Americans won’t receive health-care
coverage through their employers. That’s because by extending
lower marginal-tax rates for those earning less than $400,000,
the law also reduced the relative tax benefits that accompany
employer-sponsored coverage.  Many of those losing coverage through their jobs will
instead receive aid through the so-called exchanges created
under the Affordable Care Act, according to the CBO report.  Interest payments on the debt will become a growing burden,
the CBO estimated, as the economy strengthens and borrowing
costs rise. By 2023, the government will spend more than $850
billion annually on interest on the debt -- more than it is
projected to spend that year on the Defense Department.  Spending Cuts  The long-term budget challenge facing lawmakers will be
especially acute for Ryan, who says the tax-and-spending
blueprint his committee produces this year will be designed to
erase the deficit within a decade.  That would require much steeper cuts than the Ryan-written
version that the House passed last year; that proposal wouldn’t
have eliminated the deficit until 2040.  The deficit will total $978 billion in 2023, according to
yesterday’s report, and erasing that without raising taxes means
that Ryan’s budget would have to curb all spending that year
alone by 16 percent. It could require an additional $4 trillion
in reductions over the next decade on top of the $1.2 trillion
in coming automatic cuts, according to the report.  That may require an even deeper scaling back of entitlement
programs, including Medicare -- reductions that Ryan has sought
to phase in so as not to affect those in or near retirement.  “The CBO’s report is yet another warning that we need to
get spending under control,” Ryan said yesterday in a
statement. “We need to budget responsibly, so we can keep our
commitments and expand opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  