-- U.S. January ISM Non-Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-02-05T15:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/u-s-january-ism-non-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S. non-
manufacturing conditions from the Institute for Supply
Management.  January 2013 Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business  NMI at 55.2%  This report reflects the U.S. Department of Commerce’s recently
completed annual adjustments to the seasonal adjustment factors
used to calculate the indexes.  Business Activity Index at 56.4% New Orders Index at 54.4%  Employment Index at 57.5%  Economic activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in
January for the 37th consecutive month, say the nation’s
purchasing and supply executives in the latest Non-Manufacturing
ISM Report On Business  The report was issued today by  Anthony Nieves , C.P.M., CFPM,
chair of the Institute for Supply Management Non-Manufacturing
Business Survey Committee. “The NMI registered 55.2 percent in
January, 0.5 percentage point lower than the seasonally adjusted
55.7 percent registered in December. This indicates continued
growth at a slightly slower rate in the non-manufacturing
sector. The Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index registered
56.4 percent, which is 4.4 percentage points lower than the
seasonally adjusted 60.8 percent reported in December,
reflecting growth for the 42nd consecutive month. The New Orders
Index decreased by 3.9 percentage points to 54.4 percent, and
the Employment Index increased 2.2 percentage points to 57.5
percent, indicating growth in employment for the sixth
consecutive month. The Prices Index increased 1.9 percentage
points to 58 percent, indicating prices increased at a faster
rate in January when compared to December. According to the NMI,
eight non-manufacturing industries reported growth in January.
Respondents’ comments are mixed about the economy and business
conditions; however, the majority of respondents are optimistic
about the overall direction.”  INDUSTRY PERFORMANCE The eight non-manufacturing industries
reporting growth in January -- listed in order -- are:
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Management of
Companies & Support Services; Construction; Public
Administration; Finance & Insurance; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; and Mining.
The nine industries reporting contraction in January -- listed
in order -- are: Other Services; Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; Utilities; Educational Services; Transportation &
Warehousing; Accommodation & Food Services; Retail Trade; Health
Care & Social Assistance; and  Wholesale Trade .  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP / DOWN IN PRICE, and IN SHORT SUPPLY
Commodities Up in Price Airfares; Beef (2); Cheese*; Chicken
Products; Corrugated; #1 Diesel Fuel; #2 Diesel Fuel; Fuel;
Gasoline; Hotel Rates; Labor; Lumber -- Pine, Spruce, Plywood
and Treated (3); Medical Supplies; Pharmacy Products (2); Pipe,
Valves and Fittings; Safety Products (2); and Wallboard.  Commodities Down in Price Cheese*; Computer Products (2); Dairy
(2); and Paper.  Commodities in Short Supply Pharmacy Products are the only
commodities reported in short supply.  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item. *Reported as both up and down in
price.  --------------------------------------------------------------  JANUARY 2013 NON-MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  NMI™
In January, the NMI registered 55.2 percent, indicating
continued growth in the non-manufacturing sector for the 37th
consecutive month. A reading above 50 percent indicates the non-
manufacturing sector economy is generally expanding; below 50
percent indicates the non-manufacturing sector is generally
contracting.  Jan 2013 55.2 Jul 2012 52.9
Dec 2012 55.7 Jun 2012 52.7
Nov 2012 54.8 May 2012 54.1
Oct 2012 54.8 Apr 2012 53.7
Sep 2012 55.2 Mar 2012 55.0
Aug 2012 54.3 Feb 2012 56.1
Average for 12 months - 54.5
High - 56.1
Low - 52.7  Business Activity
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index in January
registered 56.4 percent, 4.4 percentage points lower than the
seasonally adjusted 60.8 percent registered in December. Ten
industries reported increased business activity, and six
industries reported decreased activity for the month of January.
Comments from respondents include: “ Consumer confidence ” and
“[Ordering for] 2013 capital budgets.”  The industries reporting growth of business activity in January
-- listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting; Mining; Construction; Management of Companies & Support
Services; Public Administration; Finance & Insurance;
Accommodation & Food Services; Information; Health Care & Social
Assistance; and Professional, Scientific & Technical Services.
The industries reporting decreased business activity in January
-- listed in order -- are: Utilities; Educational Services;
Other Services; Wholesale Trade; Transportation & Warehousing;
and Retail Trade.  New Orders
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing New Orders Index grew in January for the
42nd consecutive month. The index registered 54.4 percent, a
decrease of 3.9 percentage points from the seasonally adjusted
58.3 percent reported in December. Comments from respondents
include: “External client inquiries have slowed, especially on
major projects” and “Soft demand at this time.”  The 11 industries reporting growth of new orders in January --
listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting; Utilities; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Mining; Public Administration; Construction; Finance &
Insurance; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
Transportation & Warehousing; Information; and Accommodation &
Food Services. The five industries reporting contraction of new
orders in January are: Other Services; Educational Services;
Health Care & Social Assistance; Retail Trade; and Wholesale
Trade.  Employment
Employment activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in
January for the sixth consecutive month. ISM’s Non-Manufacturing
Employment Index registered 57.5 percent, which reflects an
increase of 2.2 percentage points when compared to the
seasonally adjusted 55.3 percent registered in December. Nine
industries reported increased employment, seven industries
reported decreased employment, and two industries reported
unchanged employment compared to December. Comments from
respondents include: “Hiring more sales and marketing staff” and
“Open and new positions were filled.”  The industries reporting an increase in employment in January --
listed in order -- are: Management of Companies & Support
Services; Construction; Finance & Insurance; Public
Administration; Educational Services; Retail Trade;
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; Wholesale Trade;
and Other Services. The industries reporting a reduction in
employment in January -- listed in order -- are: Mining; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Utilities; Accommodation & Food
Services; Transportation & Warehousing; Health Care & Social
Assistance; and Information.  Supplier Deliveries
The Supplier Deliveries Index registered 52.5 percent in
January, indicating that supplier deliveries were slower in
January after two consecutive months of faster deliveries. A
reading above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries, while a
reading below 50 percent indicates faster deliveries.  The nine industries reporting slower deliveries in January --
listed in order -- are: Mining; Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Educational Services;
Other Services; Wholesale Trade; Management of Companies &
Support Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; and
Construction. The four industries reporting faster supplier
deliveries in January are: Information; Finance & Insurance;
Public Administration; and Transportation & Warehousing.  Inventories
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Inventories Index contracted in January
for the fourth time in the last five months. The index
registered 47 percent, which is 3 percentage points lower than
the 50 percent reported in December. Of the total respondents in
January, 27 percent indicated they do not have inventories or do
not measure them. Comments from respondents include: “Deliberate
reduction of inventory” and “Holding levels tight.”  The seven industries reporting an increase in inventories in
January -- listed in order -- are: Mining; Agriculture,
Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Utilities; Real Estate, Rental &
Leasing; Health Care & Social Assistance; Retail Trade; and
Public Administration. The nine industries reporting decreases
in inventories in January -- listed in order -- are: Other
Services; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Transportation &
Warehousing; Information; Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services; Accommodation & Food Services; Management of Companies
& Support Services; Wholesale Trade; and Construction.  Prices
Prices paid by non-manufacturing organizations for purchased
materials and services increased in January for the 40th
consecutive month. ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Prices Index for
January registered 58 percent, 1.9 percentage points higher than
the seasonally adjusted 56.1 percent reported in December. In
January, the percentage of respondents reporting higher prices
is 23 percent, the percentage indicating no change in prices
paid is 72 percent, and 5 percent of the respondents reported
lower prices.  Fourteen non-manufacturing industries reported an increase in
prices paid during the month of January, in the following order:
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Utilities;
Accommodation & Food Services; Educational Services; Other
Services; Wholesale Trade; Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Finance & Insurance;
Retail Trade; Management of Companies & Support Services; Public
Administration; Construction; and Health Care & Social
Assistance. The three industries reporting a decrease in prices
paid during January are: Mining; Transportation & Warehousing;
and Information.  Backlog of Orders
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Backlog of Orders Index contracted in
January for the fourth time in the past five months. The index
registered 49 percent, which is 0.5 percentage point lower than
the 49.5 percent reported in December. Of the total respondents
in January, 37 percent indicated they do not measure backlog of
orders.  The six industries reporting an increase in order backlogs in
January -- listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry,
Fishing & Hunting; Utilities; Retail Trade; Real Estate, Rental
& Leasing; Finance & Insurance; and Public Administration. The
five industries reporting lower backlog of orders in January
are: Mining; Other Services; Wholesale Trade; Health Care &
Social Assistance; and Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services. Seven industries indicated no change in backlog of
orders for the month of January compared to December.  New Export Orders
Orders and requests for services and other non-manufacturing
activities to be provided outside of the  United States  by
domestically based personnel grew in January after three
consecutive months of contraction. The New Export Orders Index
for January registered 55.5 percent, which is 6 percentage
points higher than the 49.5 percent reported in December. Of the
total respondents in December, 66 percent indicated they either
do not perform, or do not separately measure, orders for work
outside of the United States.  The seven industries reporting an increase in new export orders
in January -- listed in order -- are: Mining; Retail Trade;
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Information; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Construction; and Management of
Companies & Support Services. The five industries reporting a
decrease in export orders in January are: Transportation &
Warehousing; Other Services; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Wholesale Trade; and Finance & Insurance.  Imports
The ISM Non-Manufacturing Imports Index grew in January after
contracting four times in the last seven months. This month’s
reading at 51 percent is 2 percentage points higher than the 49
percent reported in December. Sixty-one percent of respondents
reported that they do not use, or do not track the use of,
imported materials.  The five industries reporting an increase in imports for the
month of January are: Public Administration; Information; Retail
Trade; Wholesale Trade; and Accommodation & Food Services. The
three industries reporting a decrease in imports for the month
of January are: Educational Services; Transportation &
Warehousing; and Management of Companies & Support Services. Ten
industries reported no change in imports for the month of
January compared to December.  Inventory Sentiment
The ISM Non-Manufacturing Inventory Sentiment Index in January
registered 64 percent, which is 6 percentage points higher than
the 58 percent reported in December. This indicates that
respondents believe their inventories are still too high at this
time. In January, 33 percent of respondents said their
inventories were too high, 5 percent said their inventories were
too low, and 62 percent said their inventories were about right.  The 10 industries reporting a feeling that their inventories are
too high in January -- listed in order -- are: Agriculture,
Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Mining; Educational Services;
Finance & Insurance; Wholesale Trade; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Public Administration; Utilities; Retail
Trade; and Health Care & Social Assistance. The two industries
reporting that their inventories are too low in January are:
Transportation & Warehousing; and Construction. Six industries
indicated no change in inventory sentiment for the month of
January compared to December.  About this Report
The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of non-
manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation
The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is based on data
compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to
gross domestic product (GDP). The Non-Manufacturing Business
Survey Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS
code categories: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Mining; Utilities; Construction; Wholesale Trade; Retail Trade;
Transportation & Warehousing; Information; Finance & Insurance;
Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Educational Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Accommodation & Food Services;
Public Administration; and Other Services (services such as
Equipment & Machinery Repairing; Promoting or Administering
Religious Activities; Grantmaking; Advocacy; and Providing Dry-
Cleaning & Laundry Services, Personal Care Services, Death Care
Services, Pet Care Services, Photofinishing Services, Temporary
Parking Services, and Dating Services).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (Business Activity, New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New
Export Orders,  Inventory Change , Inventory Sentiment, Imports,
Prices, Employment and Supplier Deliveries), this report shows
the percentage reporting each response, and the diffusion index.
Responses represent raw data and are never changed. Data is
seasonally adjusted for Business Activity, New Orders, Prices
and Employment. All seasonal adjustment factors are supplied by
the U.S. Department of Commerce and are subject annually to
relatively minor changes when conditions warrant them. The
remaining indexes have not indicated significant seasonality.  The NMI™ (Non-Manufacturing Index) is a composite index based on
the diffusion indexes for four of the indicators with equal
weights: Business Activity (seasonally adjusted), New Orders
(seasonally adjusted), Employment (seasonally adjusted) and
Supplier Deliveries. Diffusion indexes have the properties of
leading indicators and are convenient summary measures showing
the prevailing direction of change and the scope of change. An
index reading above 50 percent indicates that the non-
manufacturing economy in that index is generally expanding;
below 50 percent indicates that it is generally declining.
Supplier Deliveries is an exception. A Supplier Deliveries Index
above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries and below 50
percent indicates faster deliveries.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® surveys are sent
out to Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee respondents
the first part of each month. Respondents are asked to ONLY
report on information for the current month. ISM receives survey
responses throughout most of any given month, with the majority
of respondents generally waiting until late in the month to
submit responses in order to give the most accurate picture of
current business activity. ISM then compiles the reports for
release on the third business day of the following month.  The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the Non-
Manufacturing ISM Report On Business monthly reports, are listed
in the order of most growth to least growth. For the industries
reporting contraction or decreases, those are listed in the
order of the highest level of contraction/decrease to the least
level of contraction/decrease.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® is published
monthly by the  Institute for Supply Management ™, the first
supply institute in the world. Founded in 1915, ISM exists to
lead and serve the supply management profession and is a highly
influential and respected association in the global marketplace.
ISM’s mission is to lead the supply management profession
through its standards of excellence, research, promotional
activities and education.  The next Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business featuring the
February 2013 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on
Tuesday, March 5, 2013.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management    http://www.ism.ws  