-- U.S. Solar Will Eclipse Wind in 2013, Says Duke Energy
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-02-05T18:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/u-s-solar-will-eclipse-wind-in-2013-says-duke-energy.html
The U.S. will add more solar power in
2013 than  wind energy  for the first time as wind projects slump
and cheap panels spur demand for photovoltaic systems, according
to the head of  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ’s renewable-energy development
unit.  The U.S. may install 3 gigawatts to 4 gigawatts of  wind
turbines  this year, and solar projects will probably exceed
that, said Gregory Wolf, president of Duke Energy Renewables.
The U.S. added 13.1 gigawatts of wind power last year, beating
natural gas for the first time.  U.S. wind projects have come to a near-standstill this year
on uncertainty over the fate of a federal tax credit that was
set to expire Dec. 31. Wolf anticipates more solar projects
going into operation in 2013 than wind farms after panel prices
fell more than  60 percent  in the last two years.  “I would expect a lot of momentum still on solar,” Wolf
said in an interview yesterday.  “We really ramped up our solar in 2010,” said Wolf.
“Today most of the projects are half or less of the cost now
than then.” Duke Renewables’ portfolio of renewable-energy
projects exceeds 1.7 gigawatts.  The production tax credit, which provides 2.2 cents a
kilowatt-hour for electricity from wind farms, was extended for
a year on Jan. 1. With little information about whether it would
be renewed, developers raced to complete wind farms by the end
of last year and didn’t plan new ones.  The U.S. installed about 3.2 gigawatts of solar power last
year and may reach 3.9 gigawatts this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Cheap panels and lower construction costs
have been aided by policy support that “has been a little more
consistent and long-term,” Wolf said.  ‘Green Halo’  Duke invested more than its $500 million target in
renewable energy last year, and more than  $2.5 billion  to date,
Wolf said.  “We’re not in this business just because we want a green
halo for Duke,” he said.  The largest U.S. utility owner by market value enters into
long-term power purchase agreements for wind and solar plants
that have “an attractive profile in terms of risk and
returns,” Wolf said. “If we find really good projects, we’ll
see if we can find a way to make them work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  