-- UBM Falls as Data Services Sale Price Disappoints: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-02-05T16:57:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/ubm-falls-as-data-services-sale-price-disappoints-london-mover.html
UBM Plc (UBM) , the publisher of
InformationWeek, fell the most in 18 months after it sold most
of its data services unit for less than analysts expected.  The  shares  fell 5.6 percent, the biggest decline since
August 2011, to 740.5 pence, paring its gain this year to 2.9
percent. It was the fifth-worst performer in the FTSE All-Share
Index. The volume of UBM shares traded was almost six times the
three-month daily average.  UBM agreed to sell most of the division to Electra Partners
LLP for 160 million pounds ($252 million), including a vendor
loan of 40 million pounds from the Dublin-based company. That’s
less than analysts Gareth Davies at Numis Securities and Roddy
Davidson at Westhouse Securities expected, even as they praised
the company’s effort to get rid of underperforming assets.  While it’s positive that the vast majority of the data
services division has been sold, “the price is a little
disappointing to the 200 million pounds we had hoped for,” .
Davies, who had a hold  recommendation  on the stock, said in a
note to clients.  UBM said in July it might sell its data services business
to focus on more profitable activities. The disposal is a
“significant strategic step forward,” Chief Executive Officer
David Levin said in a statement today.  UBM’s adjusted earnings per share last year were about 58
pence, the company said in the statement. Lower-than-expected
earnings at the data services unit were offset by corporate
costs and tax charges that were less than predicted, it said.  Exit Multiple  The company is selling its health, paper, technology, trade
and transport units to Electra. Revenue in those businesses fell
5.6 percent last year to 179.3 million pounds and their adjusted
operating profit dropped 1.1 percent to 27.4 million pounds, UBM
said.  “The exit multiple on this disposal is lower than we had
hoped,” Westhouse’s Davidson, who has an add recommendation on
the stock, said in a note to clients. “This will have been
influenced by the disappointing performance of the assets
involved.”  The disposal of the businesses would improve earnings
quality, emphasize the group’s focus on events,  emerging markets 
and digital disciplines and provide additional firepower for
acquisitions in these areas, Davidson said.  Net proceeds on the disposal will probably be 100 million
pounds and are likely to be used to reduce debt in the short
term, Numis’s Davies said. He cut his 12-month price target to
766 pence from 780 pence.  Electra is “excited” by the opportunities to develop the
businesses and deliver value growth, Chief Investment Partner
Alex Fortescue said in an e-mailed statement.  The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and
consultation with the works council in  France .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 