-- UBS to Pay Bankers Bonus Bonds That Can Be Wiped Out, FT Reports
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2013-02-05T01:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/ubs-to-pay-bankers-bonus-bonds-that-can-be-wiped-out-ft-reports.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
will award bonuses to 6,500 senior bankers in the form of bonds
that can be wiped out if the company doesn’t meet capital
standards, according to the Financial Times.  The program to benefit UBS’s highest-paid employees would
make the Zurich-based lender the first to follow recommendations
of European banking regulators, the newspaper reported, citing
unidentified people close to the situation whom it didn’t
identify. The lender is scheduled to report fourth-quarter
results today before the market opens.  Senior bankers should be required to receive some annual
bonuses in bonds that would suffer losses during a financial
crisis, the European Banking Authority said in December. A
“mandatory share” of bonuses for top management should be paid
in so-called bail-in bonds, which can be written down when
capital dips below a safe level, the regulator said in an
opinion on proposals to separate banks’ commercial and
investment units.  The debt bonuses awarded by UBS will be wiped out if the
bank’s regulatory capital falls below 7 percent or in the case
of a “non-viability” loss, the FT reported. The changes, to be
announced today, will apply to the current bonus pool, which
will fall by at least 5 percent on top of the previous year’s 40
percent cut, according to the newspaper.  Karina Byrne , a UBS spokeswoman in  New York , declined to
comment on the FT report.  Hurt Returns  UBS, led by Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti , 52, is
restructuring as tougher  capital requirements  and sluggish
client activity hurt returns. The company said in October it
will cut about 10,000 jobs as it scales back in  investment
banking  to focus on its wealth-management business, the world’s
second-largest.  The lender may post a net loss of 2.16 billion Swiss francs
($2.38 billion), compared with a profit of 319 million francs a
year earlier, according to the average estimate of 12 analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg. The estimates ranged from a loss of 2.31
billion francs to a loss of 2.07 billion francs.  UBS also is seeking to resolve regulatory probes and
bolster internal controls. The lender was fined $1.5 billion in
December by U.S., U.K. and Swiss regulators for trying to rig
global  interest rates . The previous month, U.K. authorities
imposed a 29.7 million-pound ($46.8 million) penalty and Swiss
regulators said it may have to increase capital levels for
operational risks after a $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized
trading.  Andrea Orcel , the 49-year-old CEO of the investment bank,
said at a parliamentary hearing in  London  last month that UBS is
in the process of rooting out “negative elements” of its
corporate culture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Eichenbaum in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  