-- UBS Cuts Bonus Pool 7%, Includes Bonds That Can Be Wiped Out
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-02-05T08:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/ubs-cuts-bonus-pool-7-includes-bonds-that-can-be-wiped-out.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
cut its 2012 bonus pool by 7 percent after reporting a loss for
the fourth quarter and the year on reorganization charges and a
fine for trying to rig global  interest rates .  The bonus pool, including pay deferred into future years,
amounts to 2.5 billion Swiss francs ($2.75 billion), down from
2.7 billion francs for 2011, the Zurich-based bank  said  today.
About 500 million francs of bonuses will be paid in contingent
capital bonds, which will be written off if the common equity
ratio falls below 7 percent or UBS needs a bailout.  UBS and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the country’s biggest
banks, can use contingent capital instruments to boost their
 capital ratios  under Swiss rules. UBS said it could increase
capital by about 1 percentage point through awarding bonuses in
contingent notes over the next five years.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  awarded
part of its 2010 bonus pool under a “contingent capital plan”
whereby bonuses were deferred over three years and were only to
be paid out if the group’s core tier 1 ratio, a measure of
financial strength, is at least 7 percent.  UBS said the contingent capital notes broadly replicate the
features of bonds that were sold to investors in 2012, with the
key difference being that employees’ bonds would be written off
at a 7 percent capital trigger, while for other bonds that level
was set at 5 percent.  Prudent Risk-Taking  “It thus incentivizes prudent risk-taking by employees,”
UBS said in a statement. “We are confident that our
compensation decisions for 2012 are in the best interests of the
firm and its future. They will help reinforce a culture of
accountability, create the incentives necessary to execute our
strategy, and deliver attractive returns to our shareholders.”  Almost 37 percent of shareholders voted against the bank’s
compensation report for 2011 at the annual meeting in Zurich on
May 3. Chairman  Axel Weber  pledged at the time to “very
seriously” consider compensation issues. The bank had in-depth
discussions with its biggest shareholders to better understand
their views on pay, UBS said today.  Employees will receive annual interest payments over the
vesting period of the bonds, subject to continued employment and
harmful acts provisions, UBS said. Members of the group
executive board will be receiving 40 percent of their bonuses in
these bonds, while all other employees with total compensation
of more than $250,000 will get 30 percent of their performance
awards in such instruments. In both cases, the bonds are granted
as a deferred cash award that vests in the fifth year, UBS said.  Executive board members will also be getting deferred stock
awards, making up 40 percent of their total bonus, which will
vest in three equal tranches in years three, four and five.
Deferred stock awards for other employees will vest in two equal
tranches in years two and three, the bank said. The awards for
most senior staff are also subject to group and divisional
performance conditions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  