-- UBS Cuts Bonus Pool 7%, Includes Bonds That Can Be Wiped
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-02-05T14:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/ubs-cuts-2012-bonus-pool-7-after-annual-loss-on-reorganization.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
cut its 2012 bonus pool and introduced a form of deferred cash
awards that will vest in the fifth year following the grant
and can be written off if the bank’s capital falls below the
minimum regulatory level.  The bonus pool, including pay deferred into future years,
is 2.5 billion Swiss francs ($2.75 billion), down 7 percent from
2.7 billion francs for 2011, the Zurich-based bank  said  today.
About 500 million francs of bonuses will be paid in contingent
capital bonds, which will be written off if the common equity
ratio falls below 7 percent or UBS needs a bailout.  UBS and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the country’s biggest
banks, can use contingent capital instruments to boost their
 capital ratios  under Swiss rules. UBS said it could increase
capital by about 1 percentage point through awarding bonuses in
contingent notes over the next five years.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  awarded
part of its 2010 bonus pool under a “contingent capital plan”
whereby bonuses were deferred over three years and were only to
be paid out if the group’s core tier 1 ratio, a measure of
financial strength, is at least 7 percent.  UBS said the bonds will be granted as a deferred cash award
that vests in the fifth year, subject to continued employment
and harmful acts provisions.  UBS ‘Vision’  “It’s designed to attract and retain employees who share
the same vision that we do for the bank, which is for us to
deliver sustainable returns and also to run our businesses
responsibly with an eye to the operational risk control,” Chief
Financial Officer Tom Naratil said in an interview. “We think
it aligns things properly.”  The notes broadly replicate the features of bonds that were
sold to investors in 2012, with the key difference being that
employees’ bonds would be written off at a 7 percent capital
trigger, while for other bonds that level was set at 5 percent.
This would mean that employees rather than investors take the
first loss if the bank runs into trouble.  “It thus incentivizes prudent risk-taking by employees,”
UBS said in a statement. “We are confident that our
compensation decisions for 2012 are in the best interests of the
firm and its future. They will help reinforce a culture of
accountability, create the incentives necessary to execute our
strategy, and deliver attractive returns to our shareholders.”  Shareholder Vote  Almost 37 percent of shareholders voted against the bank’s
compensation report for 2011 at the annual meeting in Zurich on
May 3. Chairman  Axel Weber  pledged at the time to “very
seriously” consider compensation issues. The bank had in-depth
discussions with its biggest shareholders to better understand
their views on pay, UBS said today.  Employees will receive annual interest payments over the
vesting period of the bonds. The coupon for the notes will be
set this month, based on the trading levels for the contingent
bonds UBS sold last year, Naratil said.  UBS last year sold two contingent capital bonds with a 5
percent trigger -- $2 billion in 10-year securities with a 7.625
percent coupon in August and $2 billion in 10-year securities
with a 7.25 percent coupon in February. Those bonds were trading
at yields to maturity of about 6.4 percent and 7.2 percent,
respectively, today.  Members of the group executive board will be receiving 40
percent of their bonuses in these bonds, while all other
employees with total  compensation  of more than $250,000 will get
30 percent of their performance awards in such instruments, the
bank said.  Cash Bonuses  Executive board members will also be getting deferred stock
awards, making up 40 percent of their total bonus, which will
vest in three equal tranches in years three, four and five.
Deferred stock awards for other employees, making up 30 percent
of total bonuses, will vest in two equal tranches in years two
and three, the bank said. The awards for most senior staff are
also subject to group and divisional performance conditions.  Cash bonuses will be capped at a maximum of 20 percent of
total performance awards for the executive board members and at
40 percent for staff earning more than $250,000. The bank also
increased minimum shareholdings for executive board members and
capped their total performance award pool at 2.5 percent of
adjusted operating profit.  UBS earlier today reported a  loss  for the fourth quarter
and the year on reorganization charges and a fine for trying to
rig global  interest rates . The bank said that about 200 million
francs of deferred compensation that was awarded in the previous
years was forfeited in 2012 for various reasons including
employees’ departures and profitability targets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  