-- UBS Posts Quarterly Loss on Libor Fine, Reorganization
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-02-05T11:44:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/ubs-posts-quarterly-loss-on-libor-fine-reorganization-costs.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
posted a second straight quarterly loss after booking a fine for
trying to rig global interest rates and costs tied to job cuts.  The net loss amounted to 1.89 billion Swiss francs ($2.08
billion) in the fourth quarter, compared with a 323 million-
franc profit a year earlier, the Zurich-based bank said today.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg on average  estimated  a loss of
2.16 billion francs.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti  is cutting 10,000
jobs over three years and exiting most debt-trading businesses
to concentrate on money management and boost return on equity, a
measure of profitability, to at least 15 percent in 2015. The
results today presented a mixed picture: While UBS accelerated a
plan to slash risk-weighted assets at the securities unit to
free capital, revenue from managing money for rich clients fell
short of analysts’ estimates.  The bank’s plan to shed assets and shrink its balance sheet
“is going really well,” said Christopher Wheeler, a London-
based analyst at Mediobanca SpA. “On the negative side,
there’ll be downgrades on the earnings because of wealth
management numbers.”  UBS fell 0.5 percent to 15.57 francs by 12:42 p.m. in Swiss
trading after  rising  48 percent in the past six months. That
compares with a 27 percent gain in the  Bloomberg Europe Banks
and Financial Services Index (BEBANKS) , which tracks 40 companies.  Debt Buyback  The company announced plans to raise its dividend by 50
percent to 15 centimes a share for 2012 and repurchase as much
as 5 billion francs of debt to lower funding costs.  The debt buyback may lead to a tightening of the bank’s
credit spreads and result in a ”significant” charge in the
first quarter, Chief Financial Officer Tom Naratil said on a
conference call. Banks book accounting charges or gains tied to
the theoretical cost of buying back their own debt as market
prices fluctuate.  For the full year, UBS posted a loss of 2.51 billion
francs, compared with a  profit  of 4.14 billion francs in 2011.  Pretax profit in at the wealth management division outside
the Americas fell 13 percent to 398 million francs in the fourth
quarter on higher costs, while the wealth management Americas,
which includes the former Paine Webber, saw earnings rise 38
percent to 201 million francs. The units added a combined 10.5
billion francs in net new money, compared with 12.3 billion
francs in the previous three months.  European clients withdrew a net 4.8 billion francs in the
quarter, a period during which German authorities raided homes
and offices of about 100 UBS clients to examine allegations they
may have hidden money in undeclared accounts.  Shrinking Margins  The gross margin at the wealth management division, which
reflects how much the bank makes in revenue on assets it
oversees, fell to 85 basis points from 88 basis points in the
third quarter. A basis point is equivalent to a hundredth of a
percentage point.  “In wealth management I’m concerned about the decline in
gross margins and about the outflows that negated the strong
inflows in Asia,” Wheeler said. “That’s disappointing.”  Naratil told journalists on a conference call the decline
in gross margin was due to seasonal effects and said he’s not
“overly concerned” about the development. UBS still sees its
target of 95 basis points to 105 basis points in wealth
management gross margin as ”appropriate,” Naratil said.  In asset management, earnings rose 24 percent to 149
million francs, while profit in the retail and corporate
division fell 10 percent. The investment bank had a pretax loss
of 557 million francs.  Unresolved Issues  Ermotti and Chairman Axel Weber, in a letter to
shareholders, said that while progress was made in 2012, a
“failure to achieve further sustained and credible improvements
to the euro-zone sovereign-debt situation, European banking
system issues, unresolved U.S. fiscal issues, ongoing
geopolitical risks and the outlook for growth in the global
economy would continue to exert a strong influence on client
confidence and, thus, activity levels in the first quarter.”  UBS reported a common equity ratio under fully-applied
Basel III rules of 9.8 percent for the end of the year, up from
9.3 percent three months earlier.  UBS cut group risk-weighted assets by 43 billion francs in
the fourth quarter as it seeks to lower them by about 100
billion francs by the end of 2017. The investment bank will need
three to five years to fully transform itself,  Andrea Orcel , CEO
of the unit, told staff at town-hall meetings in November,
according to two people who heard him speak.  Bonus Cuts  The bank notified about 1,900 employees of redundancies in
the fourth quarter, Naratil said. Group headcount fell by 1,117
to 62,628 employees in the quarter, including a reduction of 789
at the investment bank.  More than half of the planned 10,000 job cuts will be at
the investment bank, and the reorganization at UBS will result
in charges of 3.3 billion francs over the next three years, the
bank said in October.  UBS’s bonus pool, including pay that is being deferred into
future years, was cut 7 percent to 2.5 billion francs in 2012,
the bank said. Part of the bonuses will be paid in contingent
capital bonds, which will be written off if UBS’s common equity
ratio falls below 7 percent or the bank faces a bailout.  UBS was fined about 1.4 billion francs in December by
regulators in the U.S., U.K. and Switzerland for altering its
submissions used to set benchmarks such as the  London  interbank
offered rate. The fine was triple the penalties levied against
Barclays Plc, which had to pay 290 million pounds ($457 million)
in June.  Trading Loss  Libor, a benchmark for more than $300 trillion of financial
products worldwide, is derived from a survey of banks conducted
each day on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in
London. Lenders are asked how much it would cost them to borrow
from one another for 15 different periods, from overnight to one
year, in currencies including dollars, euros, yen and francs.  The bank was also fined 29.7 million pounds in November by
the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority and told by the Swiss
regulator it may have to increase capital levels for operational
risks after a $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized trading by
Kweku Adoboli. The former trader in UBS’s London office was
sentenced to seven years in jail on Nov. 20 for fraud in
relation to the loss, the largest from unauthorized trading in
British history.  Deutsche Bank AG,  Germany ’s biggest bank, last week
reported a 2.17 billion-euro ($2.94 billion) loss for the fourth
quarter on costs related to deleveraging, cutting jobs and
setting aside 1 billion euros for legal expenses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  