-- Ukrainian Lawmakers Block Parliament to Protest Absentee Voting
-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2013-02-05T11:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/ukrainian-lawmakers-block-parliament-to-protest-absentee-voting.html
Ukrainian opposition parties
prevented Parliament from reconvening after its winter break in
protest at lawmakers who vote on behalf of absent colleagues.  Jailed ex-Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko ’s party, world
boxing champion Vitali Klitschko’s UDAR and the right-wing
Svoboda surrounded the speaker’s chair today in the capital,
Kiev. They held placards with slogans demanding lawmakers “come
to work and vote for yourself.”  While President  Viktor Yanukovych ’s ruling Party of Regions
got more votes than its rivals in Oct. 28 elections, it fell
short of a majority and the opposition boosted its number of
seats. Yanukovych relies on support from the Communist Party and
independent lawmakers to pass legislation.  “From the very start of our convocation we demand voting
in person,” Klitschko said today in a statement on his website.
“Parliament mustn’t operate when there are machinations taking
place. We can’t talk about the legality of legislation approved
without the presence of lawmakers.”  Opposition parties are demanding technological changes be
made to the existing parliamentary voting system to stop
identification cards belonging to absent lawmakers from being
used to submit ballots.  Klitschko’s UDAR accuses parliamentary speaker Volodymyr
Rybak of breaking the law and violating the constitution by
allowing lawmakers to vote on behalf of absent colleagues this
year. Rybak said Jan. 24 that there are “no grounds to have
doubts about my actions.”  UDAR is seeking a vote on Serhiy Arbuzov’s departure as
central bank governor last month be annulled and has asked
prosecutors to investigate some lawmakers for abuse of office.  The hryvnia, which has declined 1.2 percent against the
dollar this year, was unchanged at 8.1435 at 12:01 p.m. in Kiev.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  