-- Lumber Has Biggest Four-Session Rally Since ’10 on China
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-02-05T23:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/lumber-extends-rally-as-china-construction-demand-boosts-imports.html
Lumber futures rose, capping the
biggest four-session rally since 2010, on mounting speculation
that construction in  China  is boosting demand for imported wood.  Log prices in China surged to a record in the fourth
quarter, sparking a 26 percent jump in imports from  New Zealand 
and the U.S. during the second half of 2012, compared with the
first six months, Seattle-based Wood Resources International
said yesterday in a report. Futures in Chicago, up 44 percent in
the past 12 months, may keep rising, said  Paul Quinn , an analyst
at  RBC Capital Markets .  “China’s back in” after prices touched a seven-week low
on Jan. 30, Vancouver-based Quinn said in a telephone. Signs of
higher sales “caused a little bit of a shiver to go down
everybody’s spines” because the Asian country appeared to have
completed purchasing last year, he said.  On the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, lumber futures for
March delivery jumped by the limit of $10, or 2.7 percent, to
close at $379 per 1,000 board feet at 1:05 p.m. In four
sessions, the price surged 11 percent, the most since December
2010.  Last month, lumber fell 6 percent on speculation that
Chinese demand would ebb and companies including Vancouver-based
 Canfor Corp. (CFP)  reopened sawmills to increase production. Output
should increase in 2013 because of elevated prices, Quinn said.  ‘Production Response’  “We still think the price trend is going to be down
because of the production response,” he said. “We preface that
with slowing demand in China because of how much lumber they
took in the fourth quarter. If they continue to take the same
volume they did in the fourth quarter, prices are going to stay
up here.”  The gross domestic product in China expanded 7.9 percent in
the fourth quarter of 2012 from a year earlier, the first
acceleration in two years.  In December, U.S.  housing  starts jumped 12 percent to the
highest since June 2008, boosting demand for lumber from  Canada ,
the world’s biggest exporter. Building  permits , a proxy for
future construction, jumped to a rate of 909,000, the highest
since July 2008.  Lumber  production  in Canada fell 5.8 percent in November
from October, the government said last month. Increased demand
in the U.S. and China, combined with lower output, led to higher
prices, Larry Hughes, the chief financial officer of Vancouver-
based  West Fraser Timber Co. Ltd., (WFT)  said in a telephone
interview.  “What really drives the market is the expectation in
terms of U.S. housing,” Hughes said. “China has been a huge
growth story. It’s a very strong market for the western Canadian
lumber industry. Now, we’re in a situation where inventories are
very tight, so it doesn’t seem to take much to move the
needle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  Chicago  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  