-- Internet ‘Under Assault’ by Censoring UN, Regulator Says
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2013-02-06T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/un-internet-oversight-should-be-fought-by-u-s-lawmakers-say.html
International proposals to control
the Internet will continue after a United Nations conference in
Dubai and the U.S. should be ready to fight such efforts,
lawmakers and a regulator said.  “The Internet is quite simply under assault,” Robert McDowell, a member of the U.S. Federal Communications
Commission, said yesterday at a joint hearing by three House
subcommittees. McDowell, a Republican, warned of “patient and
persistent incrementalists who will never relent until their
ends are achieved.”  The U.S. and other nations refused to sign a revised
telecommunications treaty at the UN conference in December,
saying new language could allow Internet regulation and
censorship by governments. Technology companies including  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s largest Internet search engine, also
opposed the changes.  The Dubai conference, held by the UN’s International
Telecommunication Union, updated regulations related to topics
such as mobile-roaming charges and access to emergency services.  The final pact also gives governments the ability to block
Internet spam and inspect the content of online messages to
determine if they can be blocked to solve “network congestion”
issues, David Gross, a member of the U.S. delegation to the
conference, said in testimony. Gross is an attorney with the law
firm of Wiley Rein in Washington and a former U.S. State
Department official.  House Measure  “This is likely the start, not the end, of efforts to drag
the Internet within the purview of international regulatory
bodies,” Representative Greg Walden, an Oregon Republican, said
at the hearing.  House lawmakers are considering draft legislation making it
U.S. policy to promote a “global Internet free from government
control,” and advance the current decentralized model of Web
governance by technical groups such as the nonprofit Internet
Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, or Icann. The bill
is similar to a non-binding resolution that passed both houses
of Congress before the Dubai conference.  “The idea that the UN ought to be controlling the Internet
to me is like putting the Taliban in charge of women’s rights,”
Representative Ted Poe, a Texas Republican, said at the hearing.  Countries that want the UN to regulate the Internet are led
by “Putin’s  Russia  and our good buddies, the Chinese,” Poe
said, referring to Russian President Vladimir Putin.  55 Balk  The U.K.,  Canada  and  Australia  were among 55 delegations
that refused to sign the telecommunications treaty or indicated
they would need to check with their governments, while 89
countries signed the pact, according to a House Energy and
Commerce Committee memorandum.  The treaty doesn’t take effect until January 2015,
providing an opportunity to persuade other nations not to adopt
the regulations, the committee said in the memorandum.  The U.S. should fight further Internet regulation efforts
at future gatherings of the ITU, which plans meetings in May in
Geneva and next year in South Korea, McDowell said.  “We have a lot of work ahead of us, particularly among
nations who do not share our vision for maintaining the free
flow of information across the Internet,” Representative Anna Eshoo, a California Democrat, said at the hearing. “We have to
have a strategy for engaging developing countries.”  Hamadoun Toure, the ITU’s secretary-general, said at the
Dubai conference he disagreed that the new treaty would increase
government control of the Internet and said there were no
provisions on Web regulation in the text.  “We are pleased that so many members of Congress today
voiced their support for the multi-stakeholder model, which has
fostered the amazing growth and vitality of the Internet,” Brad
White, a spokesman for Icann, said in an e-mail.  Icann, based in Los Angeles, manages the Internet’s domain-
name system under a contract with the U.S. Commerce Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  