-- Munich Re Gains Most in 6 Months as Dividend Rises
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2013-02-05T11:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/munich-re-raises-dividend-as-profit-exceeds-expectations.html
Munich Re, the world’s biggest
reinsurer, headed for the biggest increase in six months after
saying it will pay 12 percent more in dividends and fourth-
quarter profit beat analysts’ forecasts.  Munich Re proposed raising the dividend for last year to 7
euros a share from 6.25 euros in 2011, the Munich-based company
said in an e-mailed statement today. Net income after minority
interests fell to about 480 million euros ($646 million) from
627 million euros a year earlier, according to preliminary
earnings. That exceeded the 448.3 million-euro average estimate
of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Our core business in insurance and reinsurance is
healthy, while the claims burden from major losses was slightly
below average,” Chief Financial Officer Joerg Schneider said in
the statement. “We also achieved a good investment result.”  Munich Re rose 2.1 percent to 136.90 euros at 11:37 a.m. in
Frankfurt, heading for the biggest advance since Aug. 3. The
shares have climbed 29 percent over the past year, beating gains
of 15 percent for the  Stoxx 600 Insurance Index (SXIP)  and valuing the
company at 24.6 billion euros.  Reinsurers, who help insurers such as  Allianz SE (ALV)  and  AXA SA (CS) 
shoulder risks, benefited from decreasing disaster claims,
growing life reinsurance premiums and a recovery in capital
markets last year, offsetting negative effects from low interest
rates.  ‘Disciplined Approach’  Full-year profit more than tripled to 3.2 billion euros
from 702 million euros in 2011 as investment income increased
and amid “stable” prices and conditions, Munich Re said.  “Munich Re continues to adhere to its disciplined
underwriting approach,” Frank Kopfinger, a Frankfurt-based
analyst with Credit Agricole Cheuvreux SA who recommends buying
the shares, wrote in an e-mailed report to clients. “This will
certainly hurt its top-line performance, but we expect this to
at least maintain the high profitability levels in its
underwriting business.”  Fourth-quarter investment income climbed to 2.2 billion
euros from 1.9 billion euros in the year-ago period. Investment
income in the year as a whole increased to 8.4 billion euros
from 6.8 billion euros.  Munich Re said it renewed more than half of its non-life
reinsurance business, or a premium volume of about 9.2 billion
euros in January.  “The price level, which gives an indication of the
potential profitability of the business, rose marginally by 0.5
percent,” it said. The reinsurer said it expects the trend
toward “mainly stable prices” to continue unless large losses
occur.  Hurricane Sandy  Natural catastrophes caused $65 billion in global insured
losses in 2012, down from $119 billion in the previous year.
 Hurricane Sandy , which swept across the U.S. Northeast in
October, will account for $25 billion in total losses, making it
the single most expensive natural catastrophe and costing Munich
Re about 800 million euros before tax, the company said.  Gross premiums written at the property and casualty
reinsurance unit, Munich Re’s biggest in terms of premiums, rose
8.5 percent to 7 billion euros in the fourth quarter from a year
ago, according to the statement. The ratio of claims and costs
to premium income fell to 83 percent from 102 percent. A ratio
above 100 percent shows a loss from underwriting.  Munich Health, the reinsurer’s smallest unit, had a loss of
160 million euros in the fourth quarter, partly on writedowns on
its U.S. Medicare business at Atlanta-based health insurer
Windsor Health Group Inc.  “Given the difficult situation at WHG, however, a further
loss for Munich Health in 2013 cannot currently be ruled out,
although this would most likely be considerably smaller,” the
company said.  Munich Re is scheduled to report final full-year earnings
data on March 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in  Frankfurt  at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  