-- UPS Adds 5 Health-Care Shipping Centers as Sales Surge
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-02-05T21:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/ups-adds-5-health-care-shipping-centers-as-sales-surge.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  is
expanding its health-care shipping network’s distribution-center
space by 15 percent to take advantage of surging demand for
 prescription drugs  and medical supplies.  The additional 800,000 square feet (74,000 square meters)
brings UPS’s dedicated health-care distribution space to 6
million square feet globally spread across 37 centers, the
Atlanta-based company said today in a statement.  Health care is one of the fastest-growing  businesses  for
UPS, with revenue jumping more than 20 percent in the fourth
quarter, executives said on a Jan. 31 conference call. UPS is
relying on rising health-care spending and patient needs for
items such as dialysis equipment while a sluggish global economy
weighs on demand for other goods such as financial documents.  “We have been able to exceed our growth expectations in
this particular segment despite some of the challenges we’re
facing in the global economy,” Bill Hook, vice president of
global strategy for UPS Healthcare Logistics, said in a
telephone interview. “We’re getting very solid growth.”  The new distribution centers are located in UPS’s hometown
of Atlanta; its main air hub in Louisville,  Kentucky ; Reno,
 Nevada ; Mira Loma, California; and Burlington, Ontario. All have
temperature-controlled space and secure areas for handling
controlled prescription drugs, Hook said.  Hook declined to say how much the world’s largest package-
delivery company is investing in the new facilities.  The company 
is planning “more than a handful” of additional sites in the
next 18 months as it broadens health-care offerings in  Latin
America , Europe and Asia, he said.  UPS rose  1.1 percent to $80.80 at the close of  New York 
trading. The shares have increased 9.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  