-- Murdoch Coveting Papers Must Wait as Rift Stalls Media Rules
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-02-05T15:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/murdoch-coveting-papers-must-wait-as-rift-stalls-u-s-media-rule.html
A move to make it easier for
companies to own U.S. daily newspapers and nearby broadcast
stations has stalled amid partisan tension that could prevent
deals between companies such as Tribune Co. and  News Corp. (NWSA)   Federal Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski , a Democrat, hasn’t won approval of his proposal to
ease a ban on cross-media ownership almost three months after
asking fellow commissioners to vote for it.  The FCC proposal’s fate may determine whether News Corp.
Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  has a chance to buy Tribune Co.
newspapers in U.S. markets where his company owns Fox television
stations. Tribune emerged from bankruptcy Dec. 31 with a plan to
focus on its broadcast properties, and Murdoch plans to take a
close look at the newspapers if they become available, according
to a person with knowledge of his thinking.  “They’d be changing rules for Rupert Murdoch to
potentially make a run at the  Chicago Tribune  and the  Los
Angeles  Times,” Craig Aaron, president of the Florence,
Massachusetts-based policy group Free Press, said in an
interview.  The cross-ownership changes proposed by Genachowski are
similar to those passed by the agency on a Republican-led vote
in 2007 and struck down by an appeals court in 2011. Like the
earlier effort, Genachowski’s would allow newspaper-broadcast
common ownership in the 20 largest U.S. media markets so long as
a television station isn’t among the top four in audience size,
as measured by  Nielsen Holdings NV. (NLSN)   Rankings Yardstick  News Corp.’s Fox stations in Los Angeles and  Chicago , the
nation’s second- and third-largest markets, don’t always rank
among the top four by audience, opening the door to potential
bids, Aaron said.  To prevent that, the FCC would include language in the plan
to extend the cross-ownership restriction on stations that move
in the rankings between fourth and fifth, Neil Grace, an FCC
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “The assertion that the FCC’s order would make it easier
for a top four TV station -- or for a TV station that moves
between fourth and fifth in the rankings -- to acquire a
newspaper is simply false,” Grace said. “In fact, it would
make it harder.”  Dan Berger, a spokesman for News Corp., declined to
comment. News Corp. supports eliminating the cross-ownership
rule, the company said in a July filing.  Party Rift  Genachowski’s proposal would relax prohibitions enacted in
1975 to protect a community’s media outlets from domination by a
single media owner.  Opponents say weakening the rule would damage the diversity
of viewpoints needed in a democratic society, while newspaper
owners and broadcasters say outdated restrictions prevent the
cost-sharing media companies need as readers, viewers and
advertisers move to the Internet.  “Media ownership has become a matter of religion for both
parties,”  Gigi Sohn , president of the Washington-based policy
group  Public Knowledge  said in an interview. “Democrats don’t
want to lift anything, and Republicans want to lift
everything.”  That’s left Genachowski’s plan caught between Democrats who
say it goes too far and Republicans who say it doesn’t go far
enough.  Stronger Ban  The five-member FCC has been trying to rewrite its media-
ownership regulations for a decade. Twice it has had had new
rules rejected by courts.  In the current negotiations, two Democratic commissioners
are withholding “yes” votes, saying the agency should study
how the new rules would change minority ownership of broadcast
stations, said two agency officials who asked not to be
identified because deliberations haven’t been made public. The
FCC’s two Republicans reject a Genachowski proposal that would
tighten remaining ownership limits on broadcast stations that
share advertising sales, the officials said.  “The two Democrats seem to share our view, that the
commission cannot proceed” before analyzing minority ownership,
Andrew Jay Schwartzman, a Washington lawyer who advises the
policy group Free Press, said in an interview. “The two
Republicans think that what Julius wants to do doesn’t go far
enough, and Julius is sort of in the middle -- and he can’t get
three votes either way.”  Seeking Relief  Genachowski said commissioners continue to deliberate.
“We’re in active discussions,” he told reporters at a Jan. 31
news conference. In July, the chairman said the agency was “on
a track” to vote on the rules by the end of 2012.  Newspapers aren’t expecting purchases by major
broadcasters, given the top-four rule, and they would welcome
investments to help replace lost advertising revenue, Paul Boyle, senior vice president of the  Newspaper Association of
America , said in an interview. The Arlington, Virginia-based
trade group, with members including the New York Times Co.,
Gannett Co. and the Washington Post Co., favors repealing the
rule.  “We think this provides some relief to hopefully get some
investments, in newspapers and vice versa,” Boyle said. For
instance, he said, a newspaper may be able to buy a local radio
station and begin broadcasting news.  Cross Ownership  Tribune emerged from bankruptcy at the end of December and
has considered selling newspapers. It owns the Los Angeles
Times, the Chicago Tribune and six other daily newspapers, along
with 23 television stations. Tribune, which in January appointed
former Fox television executive Peter Liguori as its chief
executive officer, plans to focus on its more profitable
broadcast business going forward.  Murdoch has a government waiver that lets him own the  New
York  Post, which targets readers in the New York metropolitan
area, where he also owns two broadcast stations. His ownership
of the Wall Street Journal doesn’t require special approval as
it’s considered a national newspaper.  Murdoch plans to split his company into publishing and
entertainment groups by the middle of this year. Cross-ownership
restrictions still would apply since the businesses will have
the same owner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net  or
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  