-- Turkish Bonds Rise as Bank’s Currency Measure Crosses Threshold
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-02-05T15:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/turkish-bonds-rise-as-bank-s-currency-measure-crosses-threshold.html
Turkey ’s  bonds  rose after an index
that the central bank uses to measure the lira’s strength
signaled the currency is overvalued, fueling speculation of an
interest rate cut this month. The lira erased gains.  Yields on two-year benchmark notes extended this year’s
drop to 40 basis points, the steepest slide among 18 major
 emerging markets , after the Real Effective  Exchange Rate  Index
surpassed a threshold today that central bank Governor Erdem
Basci said could result in policy action.  “If the lira retains its current levels, the REER may stay
above 120 in February,” Ali Cakiroglu, a strategist at HSBC
Asset Management in Istanbul, wrote in an e-mailed note. “The
possibility of a new cut in overnight borrowing rates is
intact.”  Yields on two-year notes fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, at 5.78 percent, the lowest level on a closing
basis since Dec. 17. The lira wiped out an earlier advance of as
much as 0.2 percent against the dollar and traded little changed
at 1.7615 by 5:36 p.m. in Istanbul.  The REER, which monitors the lira against Turkey’s trade
partners, rose to 120.16 in January from 118.08 in December,
according to central bank data. A reading of 120 or above
signals excessive currency strength. Turkey’s rate-setting
meeting is scheduled for Feb. 19.  A “measured rate cut to the  interest rate  corridor or
policy rate is possible if the real effective exchange rate
appreciates excessively,” Basci said Jan. 29. The lira gained
1.3 percent this year against the dollar, extending last year’s
6 percent appreciation, and 1.2 percent against the euro.  Basci has used an interest-rate corridor since October 2011
to adjust borrowing rates and manage capital flows.  “If the REER exceeds 130, the central bank will consider
more radical interest rate cuts at the lower band and other
measures,” Ercan Erguzel, an economist at  Denizbank AS (DENIZ)  in
Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  Basci cut the overnight lending and borrowing rates by 25
basis points on Jan. 22 and raised  reserve requirements  for
lenders to curb credit growth that had started to grow “faster
than envisaged, amid accelerating capital inflows,” policy
makers said in a statement.  One-year  interest-rate swaps , which indicate investor
expectations of borrowing costs, fell three basis points to 6.54
percent today.  “Based on the current exchange rate and credit outlook, we
are expecting 25 basis points reduction in the lower band of the
corridor and one percentage point increase in lira reserve
requirements,” Gizem Oztok Altinsac, an economist at Garanti
Investment in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  