-- Must Financial Reform Await Another Crisis?
-- B y   A n a t   A d m a t i   a n d   M a r t i n   H e l l w i g
-- 2013-02-05T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/must-financial-reform-await-another-crisis-.html
We have argued that if banks had much
more equity, the financial system would be safer, healthier and
less distorted. From society’s perspective, the benefits are
large and the costs are hard to find; there are virtually no
trade-offs.  The claim is often made, however, that this reform would be
costly. Higher equity requirements, goes the argument, would
reduce bank lending and harm the economy, which hasn’t yet
recovered from the sharp downturn of 2008.  In fact, it is best for the financial system and for the
economy if problems in banking are addressed quickly and
forcefully. If bank equity is low, it is important to rebuild it
quickly even when the economy is weak.  It is also important to recognize hidden losses and to
close zombie banks -- those with large losses that, if
acknowledged, would wipe out the banks’ equity. If the losses
aren’t acknowledged, these weak banks continue to operate, but
their decisions are likely to be harmful.  Delays can be costly. In Japan in the 1990s, the
authorities failed to force banks to recognize losses from bad
loans. The banks continued to lend to distressed borrowers while
reducing their lending to new firms. As a result, economic
growth stalled. The Japanese crisis lasted for more than a
decade. In the U.S. in recent years, banks have also been slow
to recognize losses while cutting new lending.  Weak Banks  Weak banks don’t serve the economy well. They may continue
to roll over loans to distressed or insolvent clients and even
provide them with additional funds to avoid having to
acknowledge losses. Such behavior, however, hurts the economy by
maintaining unsuccessful old firms and restricting funding for
potential new ones. Distressed or insolvent banks also tend to
take excessive risks to gamble for survival. Yet authorities in
most countries have been reluctant to address the continued
weakness of many banks.  The easiest way to increase the health and stability of the
financial system is to ban banks from making cash payouts, such
as dividends, to their shareholders, and to require banks to
retain their earnings until they have significantly more equity.
These measures would bring immediate benefits and have no
harmful side effects on the economy.  If banks didn’t pay their shareholders, they could lend
using their retained earnings rather than with new borrowing.
Successful companies use retained earnings all the time to fund
new investments. In fact, retained earnings are the most popular
source of funding for corporations.  Shareholders in fast-growing companies, such as Apple Inc.,
are usually happy if earnings are retained. They expect their
money to be invested productively so that the share price will
rise.  By contrast, if a corporation might default on its debts,
shareholders may prefer that money be paid out to them rather
than benefiting creditors in a bankruptcy. In this case, a ban
on payouts might hurt some shareholders, but it would benefit
creditors and, in the case of banks, the deposit-insurance fund
and possibly taxpayers. Society as a whole, including most bank
shareholders, would benefit because the bank and the financial
system would be safer from distress or failure. Safer, less-
indebted banks are in a better position to support the economy.  In 2007 and 2008, U.S. regulators allowed banks to make
large dividend payments, even after the subprime crisis broke
into the open in August 2007. The payouts weakened banks
significantly. The amounts the largest banks paid their
shareholders equaled about half what the U.S. government
provided them subsequently through the Troubled Asset Relief
Program. Had the banks not made those payouts, there would have
been less need for government support.  Raise Equity  Since 2011, the Federal Reserve and authorities elsewhere
have allowed most banks to make cash payments to shareholders,
even though banks are still weak and some still haven’t reached
the level of equity required under the new international rules
for banking regulation, known as Basel III.  Because of warnings that stricter equity requirements would
reduce bank lending and harm economic growth, Basel III won’t
take full effect until 2019. Yet it makes no sense to allow such
a delay on the grounds that banks need time to adjust, and at
the same time allow payouts that deplete the equity and make the
adjustment slower. Allowing the payouts before the new equity
levels have been reached benefits the banks while harming the
public.  Healthy banks don’t need to wait for equity to be built
internally through retained earnings. Such banks could
immediately become safer by raising new equity from investors,
and regulators can require them to do so. If banks are required
to raise their equity by specified amounts, there is no reason
for them to make fewer loans.  If a bank is unable to raise new equity because it has no
profits to retain or can’t sell shares, there is reason to
suspect that the bank is highly distressed. In such a case,
supervisors should step in, examine the loans and other assets
one by one, and close the bank if it is insolvent. Hidden
insolvencies are highly inefficient and must not be allowed to
persist.  In addition to the unnecessarily long transition period,
Basel III’s equity requirements are far too low. When the
agreement was announced in September 2010,  Martin Wolf , the
Financial Times columnist, wrote that the tripling of
requirements “sounds tough, but only if one fails to realize
that tripling almost nothing does not give one very much.”  The requirement for common equity was indeed raised from 2
percent to 7 percent. However, this ratio relates the bank’s
equity to its so-called risk-weighted assets, a measure that
tries to account for the risk of assets. Referring to risk-
weighted rather than total assets weakens equity requirements
significantly.  Weak Requirements  For example, the roughly 55 billion euros ($74 billion) in
equity that Deutsche Bank AG had on its balance sheet at the end
of 2011 represented more than 14 percent of the bank’s risk-
weighted assets -- far more than required by Basel III -- but
only 2.5 percent of the bank’s total assets. When equity is 2.5
percent of a bank’s total assets, a 2.5 percent decline in the
value of assets is enough to wipe out the equity and make the
bank insolvent.  Since 2007, several large banks became insolvent from
relatively small losses -- or would have become insolvent if
they hadn’t been bailed out with taxpayer money. In some cases,
the losses came from assets that had been treated as riskless by
regulators and therefore weren’t backed by equity at all.
Empirical research indicates that the ability of banks to
withstand the recent crisis depended on the ratio of equity to
their total assets rather than their risk-weighted assets.  The idea of risk weighting is that safer assets are given
less weight and therefore require less backing by equity. In
practice, the system of risk weights has encouraged banks to
invest in assets that are treated as safe by regulators even
though they are risky, such as AAA rated mortgage-backed
securities or Greek sovereign debt. The system also allows banks
to manipulate their own equity requirements by using their own
risk models to determine risk weights.  Basel III also proposes a so-called leverage-ratio
regulation, which will set a minimum level for equity relative
to total assets. Basel III fixed this minimum at 3 percent. This
number is outrageously low. If bank equity is so low, we must be
prepared for more bank failures and crises, with large costs to
taxpayers and significant economic damage.  There is no legitimate reason for the proposed Basel III
requirements to be so low. These requirements reflect the
political impact that the banks have had on the policy debate
and the flawed and misleading claims that are made in
discussions about banking regulation.  Fictional Costs  Requiring that bank equity be on the order of 20 percent to
30 percent of total assets would make the financial system much
safer. At those levels, most banks would be able to cope on
their own and would require no more than occasional liquidity
support.  Instead, the approach taken by regulators has been based on
the misplaced notion that there are significant trade-offs for
society associated with higher equity. The research that has
been offered in support of Basel III understates the benefits
and makes up fictional costs of equity to society.  For example, practically all of the studies assume that
there is a cost to society when banks issue new equity, without
properly explaining why. They also fail to distinguish between
the cost to banks and the cost to society; the two differ if
risks to creditors, taxpayers and the economy increase when
banks use less equity and borrow more.  With more equity and lower indebtedness, banks’ reactions
to losses would also be less intense and less destabilizing.
When losses wipe out much of a bank’s equity, distressed-asset
sales might depress market prices, as happened in 2007 and 2008.
If banks were less indebted, they would also have more
confidence in each other, which is important because banks
routinely borrow from and lend to one another to smooth
fluctuations in funding due to customer transactions.  The banking system has become ever more fragile since the
1970s. Increased competition in financial markets has lowered
banks’ ability to withstand shocks. The high degree of
interconnectedness in the system that came with financial
innovation and globalization has magnified the potential fallout
from the failure of an individual institution. Finally, some
shocks to the overall economy, to which all financial
institutions tend to be exposed, have become more pronounced,
which makes it more likely that many institutions will run into
trouble at the same time.  Given this increased fragility, bank-equity levels from the
recent past don’t provide appropriate guidance for the equity
levels that would make for a healthy system today. Equity levels
of 20 percent to 30 percent, or even more, were typical before
the development of government safety nets, even without capital
regulation. Such levels provide a more appropriate benchmark.  Reducing Fragility  If banks are less able to use subsidized borrowing, the
banking sector might shrink, but this shouldn’t cause concern.
The current size of the banking sector may well be too large.  The proper size of any industry should be determined in
markets, as different businesses compete for resources,
including people. In banking, however, the normal market
mechanism has been distorted by guarantees, bailouts and cheap
bank borrowing at the expense of taxpayers. Such distortions are
highly inefficient. Excessive borrowing exposes the public to
unnecessary risk of financial instability and crises while
producing no benefit.  Bankers don’t have proper incentives on their own to make
their banks safe. Current public policy and regulation give them
strong incentives to borrow too much and to take excessive risks
with their investments, both of which are in direct conflict
with the public interest in a stable financial system.  The public continues to be harmed by a dangerous and
distorted financial system that doesn’t support the economy as
well as it should. Efforts to reform the system have so far been
weak and misdirected. Much can be done at little cost to have a
better banking system. The critical ingredient to financial
reform -- still missing -- is political will.  ( Anat Admati  is a professor of finance and economics at the
Stanford Graduate School of Business and  Martin Hellwig  is a
director at the Max Planck Institute for Research on Collective
Goods in Bonn. This is the last in a series of three excerpts
from their new  book , “The Bankers’ New Clothes: What’s Wrong
With Banking and What to Do About It,” to be published Feb. 24
by Princeton University Press. The opinions expressed are their
own. Read  Part 1  and  Part 2 .)  To contact the writers of this article:
Anat Admati at  admati_anat@gsb.stanford.edu 
Martin Hellwig at  hellwig@coll.mpg.de   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Paula Dwyer at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  