-- Vale’s $2 Billion Tax Break Plea Denied by Argentina, Perez Says
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2013-02-05T22:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/vale-s-2-billion-tax-break-plea-denied-by-argentina-perez-says.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the mining company that
halted construction at a potash project in Argentina, won’t get
as much as $2 billion in tax breaks from the Latin American
country as it negotiates terms to resume work.  Argentina rejected the tax deferrals, which Rio de Janeiro-
based Vale requested after costs for its $5.9 billion Rio
Colorado project rose to “complicated” levels, according to
Francisco Perez, governor of Argentina’s Mendoza province, where
the mine is located.  Vale is selling assets and canceling projects as profits
are expected to fall to a three-year low. It’s negotiating with
a potential partner for the potash project and cut the venture’s
2013 budget to $611 million from $1.08 billion last year. Work
has been suspended indefinitely while it reassesses Rio
Colorado.  “Vale asked for deferring the VAT tax during the
construction phase -- we are talking about between $1.5 billion
and $2 billion,” Perez said today in an audio file e-mailed by
the province’s press office. “The Argentine president already
told the Brazilian president that’s a lot of money.”  The company’s deadline to submit plans for restarting the
project was extended until the end of this month. Vale’s press
office in  Rio de Janeiro  declined to comment when contacted by
 Bloomberg News  today.  Argentina’s national and provincial governments will
continue negotiations with Vale about restarting the project
after authorities met Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira
and  Brazil ’s Industry & Trade Minister Fernando Pimentel in
 Buenos Aires  yesterday, Perez said. The government suggested
cheaper rail alternatives and bringing in partners, he said.  “The ball is now in Vale’s court,” Perez said.  Vale  declined  1.7 percent to 38.10 reais at the close in
 Sao Paulo .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  