-- Venezuela Says Sidetur Debt Should Be Paid by Previous Owners
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2013-02-05T22:28:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/venezuela-says-sidetur-debt-should-be-paid-by-previous-owners.html
Venezuelan steelmaker Siderurgica del
Turbio SA’s previous owners are responsible for paying debt
taken on before the company was nationalized in 2010, Industry
Minister  Ricardo Menendez  said today.  The South American country’s attorney general ruled on the
matter, Menendez said on state television, after a trustee for
bonds issued in 2006 by the Caracas-based steelmaker, known as
Sidetur, said last week that they were in technical default.  “It’s simple,” Menendez said. “The one who generates the
debt should pay it.”  Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, the trustee for
Sidetur’s $75 million of outstanding bonds, said in a Jan. 30
letter to creditors that a technical default occurred because a
reserve account maintained by the company wasn’t fully funded.
The default created a fresh opportunity for bondholders to
demand immediate repayment, according to the rules under which
the securities were sold.  “It’s a bad sign for bondholders with Venezuelan risk,”
 Francisco Ghersi , a managing director at Knossos Asset
Management, said today in an e-mailed response to questions.
“It gives the impression that there is disorder among those
responsible for managing the country’s debt. They should clear
this up very soon.”  The securities, which Fitch Ratings cut to seven steps
below investment grade in November, traded today at 84.5 cents
on the dollar to yield 16.5 percent, according to prices
compiled by Trace, the bond price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Cancer Treatment  “It is like someone stealing your house -- and your bank
account -- and then still expecting you to pay -- and be able to
pay -- the mortgage payments so the usurpers don’t get
repossessed and evicted,”  Russ Dallen , the head trader at
Caracas Capital Markets, said today in an e-mailed response to
questions. Dallen said he owns some of the bonds.  Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , who is being treated for
an undisclosed type of cancer in Cuba, said last year that he
approved funds to compensate Caracas-based Sivensa SACA,
Sidetur’s former owner, for the nationalization. Phone messages
left for Sivensa today weren’t immediately returned. No one at
Venezuela’s Industry Ministry picked up the phone when called
today for further comment.  Sivensa planned to buy back Sidetur’s debt once it receives
compensation for the nationalized assets, Oswaldo Sahmkow, the
finance director at the company, said in 2011. The company said
in October that it hadn’t yet been compensated for the seizure.  Chavez has seized companies in the energy, food, metals,
cement and banking industries since first taking office in 1999
as part of his plan to create a socialist country. His takeover
of FertiNitro in October 2010 handed bond investors windfall
profits the next year because of a clause requiring a payout
above face value in the event of a nationalization.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  