-- Puri Chases Growth for HDFC Bank in Villages: Corporate India
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-02-06T10:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/villages-luring-hdfc-bank-as-puri-chases-growth-corporate-india.html
HDFC Bank Ltd. , India’s second-
largest lender by market value, is seeking to expand in the
rural market of the world’s second-most populated nation to
bolster profits as competition in its cities intensifies.  Lending in India’s villages and small towns, where almost
half of HDFC Bank’s branches are located, expanded as much as 40
percent in the past two years, compared with an average 25
percent increase in total loans, according to Chief Executive
Officer  Aditya Puri . That growth rate will change the bank’s
retail lending portfolio over the next five years, he said,
declining to give a target for rural loans.  Puri is betting his bank will be able to sidestep the
problem of rising bad loans in rural India and boost profit from
selling products to a population that exceeds the U.S. and
Europe combined, after setting up procedures such as central
vetting of credit. Fewer rivals offering banking services in the
nation’s 600,000 villages may help HDFC Bank boost  margins , the
former Citigroup Inc. executive said.  “Around 70 percent of India lives there and that’s the
future,” Puri said in his office in Mumbai. “The semi-urban
and rural areas are almost virgin markets.”  Puri, who has set up rural branches from Kargil, bordering
Pakistan, to the Andaman & Nicobar islands, near Indonesia’s
Aceh province, forecasts the bank’s expansion in the past four
years will help in boosting revenue to cut cost-to-income ratio,
a measure of profitability, by a quarter percentage point every
year through 2018.  ‘Valuation Driver’  “An improvement in the cost-to-income ratio and steady
loan growth above 25 percent will be the valuation driver for
the bank,” said  Nitin Kumar , a Mumbai-based banking analyst at
Quant Broking Ltd.  HDFC Bank’s total outstanding  loans  increased 24 percent in
2012 from a year earlier. India’s total bank loans, excluding
advances to state agencies for food procurement, expanded 15
percent last year,  data  compiled by the central bank show.  Cost-to-income ratio, excluding income from bond
investments, at Mumbai-based HDFC Bank was 47.1 percent for the
three months ended Dec. 31, up from 46.7 percent a year earlier,
Paresh Sukthankar, the bank’s executive director, said on Feb.
4.  HDFC Bank, which increased its rural loans to 15 percent of
retail lending at the end of December from 9 percent in March
2011, is pricing “pockets” of increased defaults into loans in
some areas, Puri, 62, said. Overall, delinquencies on rural
loans are not higher than in urban markets, he said.  ‘Price Competition’  State Bank of India  is the country’s largest rural lender,
according to company exchange filings. HDFC Bank has 45 percent
of its branches outside cities, according to a presentation on
its website.  “The bank has seen an increase in price competition in
retail in cities” in the last quarter, said Sukthankar.
“Price-based competition in rural areas is lesser.”  Still, bad loans from lending to farmers may increase 5.8
percent by March, the highest among seven industries, according
to a Reserve Bank of India  report  dated Dec. 28.  “We have tested the products over the last four years and
have created a distribution network in these markets,” Puri
said. “All the investments have been made and the money has to
come in now.”  Shares of  HDFC Bank  fell 0.7 percent to 639.5 rupees at in
Mumbai. The stock rose 59 percent last year, surpassing the 26
percent gain in the equity benchmark  BSE India Sensitive Index .  Bad Loans  Bad loans at Indian banks jumped to 3.6 percent as of Sept.
30 from 2.8 percent a year earlier as the economy slowed and
borrowing costs remained the highest among the major Asian
economies, data compiled by the central bank show. The  economy 
will grow by 5.5 percent in the year ending March, it predicted
on Jan. 29.  HDFC Bank’s bad loan ratio stood at 0.2 percent as of Dec.
31, compared with 0.76 percent at ICICI Bank Ltd., the country’s
second-biggest lender by assets, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We never bet the bank,” Puri said. “We started small in
the rural areas four years back, learned and modified. Now it is
time to reap benefits.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  