-- Virgin Media in Talks for Transaction With Liberty Global
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-02-05T07:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/virgin-media-in-talks-for-transaction-with-liberty-global.html
Virgin Media Inc. (VMED) , the U.K.’s second-
largest pay-television provider, confirmed it is in talks with
 Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  after a report that it may get acquired by
the John Malone-owned company.  The two companies are in discussions “concerning a
possible transaction,” Virgin Media said today in a statement,
without providing details. A deal would be subject to regulatory
and other conditions, the company said.  Liberty Global is preparing to make a bid for Virgin Media,
the Financial Times reported today, citing people familiar with
the situation. Virgin Media has a market value of $10.4 billion
at yesterday’s closing price, and an enterprise value of 12.3
billion pounds ($19.3 billion), based on Bloomberg data.  Virgin Media  fell  2.4 percent to $38.69 in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading yesterday. The Hook, England-based company’s
stock had gained 59 percent in the 12 months before today. The
company is also traded in London.  Malone’s company has been working to expand in Europe.
Liberty’s bid for Belgium’s  Telenet Group Holding NV (TNET)  fell
through last month after investors rejected a 2 billion-euro
($2.69 billion) offer. Shareholders with 8.4 percent of
outstanding shares accepted the tender, which expired on Jan.
11, bringing Liberty’s stake in the cable operator to about 58
percent, the company said Jan. 14.  Virgin Media has been making its Internet service,
advertised by runners Usain Bolt and Mo Farah, more attractive
for customers by increasing Web speeds. The company will report
fourth-quarter results tomorrow.  Bert Holtkamp, a Liberty Global spokesman based near
Amsterdam, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.
Virgin Media officials declined to comment beyond the company’s
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  