-- Vonn Expected to Ski in Olympics After Knee Injury, Docto
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   C h r i s   E l s e r
-- 2013-02-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/vonn-injured-in-crash-at-super-g-ski-world-championships.html
Olympic downhill champion  Lindsey Vonn  is expected to be ready for next year’s Winter Games in
Russia after tearing two knee ligaments and breaking her leg in
a crash at skiing’s world championships, the U.S. Ski team
said in a statement.  Vonn was airlifted to a hospital after the accident in
yesterday’s super-G race in Schladming, Austria. She tore the
anterior cruciate and medial collateral ligaments in her right
knee and fractured a bone just below the joint, U.S. Ski Team
Medical Director Kyle Wilkens said in a statement.  Vonn, 28, may return to skiing in as little as six months,
according to Alexis Chiang Colvin, an orthopedic surgeon
specializing in sports medicine at the Icahn School of Medicine
at Mount Sinai in New York City. The Sochi Winter Games start on
Feb. 7, 2014.  “She will be out for the remainder of this season but is
expected to return to racing for the 2013-14 Audi FIS World Cup
season and the 2014 Olympic Winter Games in Sochi,” the U.S.
Ski Team said in a statement on its website.  Vonn probably will have surgery to repair just the ACL,
according to Colvin, who said that ligament is critical for any
skier.  “You need it for the cutting and pivoting motions,”
Colvin said in a telephone interview yesterday. “If the ACL
doesn’t heal properly, she won’t be able to return to skiing.”  The bigger question is the leg fracture, according to
Colvin. The Ski Team said the break was a lateral tibial plateau
fracture. If the break is minor, as is seen in many ligament
tears, Vonn could easily return in time to compete in the
Olympics, Colvin said. If the fracture is more severe, requiring
plates and screws, the recovery could be much longer, according
to the surgeon.  Fastest Start  Skiing in fading light in a race that began 3 1/2 hours
late because of fog, Vonn had the fastest start on the Streicher
course. She was in third place when she crashed while landing
off a jump halfway through her run. The American’s right knee
appeared to buckle, and she tumbled as she lost her ski.  “It was a really bad crash,” 1998 Olympic super-G silver
medalist  Didier Cuche  of Switzerland told broadcaster Eurosport.
“She was pushing really hard. She jumped far and she missed the
landing.”  Yesterday’s crash ends a difficult season for Vonn. She’s
the most successful ski racer of her generation, and is three
World Cup victories shy of tying the women’s record of 62 held
by Austria’s Annemarie Moser-Proell.  A four-time World Cup overall champion, Vonn was
hospitalized by an intestinal illness in November. At the end of
2012, she took a month-long break from skiing to recover and
regain her stamina. She’s currently third in the World Cup
overall standings, trailing leader  Tina Maze  of Slovenia by
almost 1,000 points.  Maze Wins  Maze, who started immediately before Vonn, won today’s
super-G in a time of 1 minute, 35.39 seconds. The 29-year-old is
the first skier from her country to win a speed medal at the
world championships. Switzerland’s  Lara Gut  finished 0.38
seconds back, while Vonn’s teammate  Julia Mancuso , the 2006
Winter Olympic super-G champion, was third, 0.52 seconds behind.  “That was probably the most difficult race I’ve ever had
to ski,” Mancuso told Eurosport. She started after Vonn fell.  Roughly 20 centimeters (8 inches) of snow fell in
Schladming on Feb. 2, preventing the racers from training on the
hill two days ago and leading to thick fog yesterday. Poor
visibility meant the race didn’t go ahead until 2:30 p.m. local
time, and then it was delayed when an official fell and needed
to be airlifted to the hospital. More snow was forecast
overnight.  Five other racers, including Vonn’s friend and 2010 double
Olympic champion  Maria Hoefl-Riesch  of Germany, also didn’t
finish the race, which was stopped because of fog after 30
skiers had come down.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  