-- Washington Tops Los Angeles as U.S. Leader in Traffic Gridlock
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-02-05T06:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/washington-tops-los-angeles-as-u-s-leader-in-traffic-gridlock.html
Washington , D.C., commuters waste
more time stuck in traffic than even those in Los Angeles as the
improving economy increases congestion on U.S. roadways,
according to an annual study by Texas A&M University.  Drivers in the U.S. capital and surrounding region spent an
average of 67 hours in traffic in 2011, according to the Texas
A&M Transportation Institute’s Urban Mobility Report published
today. By comparison, commuters in the Los Angeles metropolitan
region wasted an average of 61 hours in traffic during the
assessment period, the report said.  “Washington, D.C., does have essentially nonstop activity
-- a lot of people driving into the city with the federal
workforce, a lot of tourist activity, a lot of conventions,”
Bill Eisele, a senior research engineer for the institute, said
in a telephone interview. It also has an older road system that
wasn’t designed for the current volume of traffic, he said.  Traffic jams in the largest U.S. cities are on the rise
again after dipping in 2008 when the recession began. Along with
wasted time and increased gasoline use and stress, congestion
contributed 56 billion pounds of additional carbon dioxide
emissions from idling cars in 2011, the study found.  The San Francisco-Oakland area tied with Los Angeles as the
second-worst for wasted travel time, followed by the New York-
Newark, New Jersey, area at 59 hours and metropolitan  Boston  at
53 hours, the study said.  There was a “slight uptick” in nationwide congestion in
2011, the latest survey period, said Eisele, co-author of the
study. Cities must find additional ways to mitigate congestion
as the rebounding economy brings further increases, he said.  Those steps include upgrades to existing roadways and
public transportation improvements, the study said.  “Things are only going to get worse if we don’t act now,”
Eisele said.  In a separate May 2012 study by Inrix Traffic Data, which
is also the supplier of data for the institute’s survey,
Honolulu-area drivers also had among the worst commutes in the
nation, wasting an average of 58 hours annually, according to
the Inrix National Traffic Scorecard.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  