-- Wells Fargo Targets Mideast Wealth Funds in Dubai Expansion
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-02-05T12:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/wells-fargo-to-target-sovereign-wealth-funds-in-dubai-expansion.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the U.S. bank that
counts billionaire  Warren Buffett ’s company as its largest
shareholder, is targeting Persian Gulf sovereign-wealth funds as
it seeks to expand its client base in the  Middle East .  “We are keeping our focus on banks and investment banks,
and also plan to target sovereign-wealth funds in the U.A.E. and
Qatar,” Shoar Hassan, the bank’s senior executive officer and
regional manager for Middle East and North  Africa , said
yesterday in an interview in Dubai. “We’re looking at what’s
worked well for us in the U.S. and are bringing it to the Middle
East. We want to deepen our wallet with our clients.”  The San Francisco-based company, which opened an office in
the Dubai International Financial Centre last month, currently
provides financial institutions with services such as trade,
payments and deposits in the Middle East. The bank also plans to
expand the products it offers to include  capital markets , asset
management, foreign exchange and derivatives, Hassan said.  The Middle East is home to some of the world’s largest
wealth funds, buoyed by proceeds from the region’s oil reserves.
Many of these funds are choosing to invest locally and increase
state programs after the Arab Spring.  Wells Fargo employs 12 people in its Dubai office after
setting up there 15 years ago and plans more hires, Hassan said.  Stepping Up Efforts  Last year, 56 percent of new money from Gulf sovereign
wealth funds was invested in the six-member Gulf Cooperation
Council, up from 33 percent in 2011, Invesco Ltd. said in May.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  is also seeking to compete with  London 
and New York-based banks such as HSBC Holdings Plc, State Street
Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp. in
custodian services for wealth funds.  The amount of cash, stocks, bonds and other assets the
Canadian bank holds on behalf of Middle East funds rose by 20
percent last year as investment pools diversified, Cormac Sheedy, senior executive officer for the Middle East and Africa
at the bank’s RBC Investor Services Trust unit, said last month.  In the  United Arab Emirates , the Abu Dhabi Investment
Authority, the country’s largest wealth fund, had assets valued
at $328 billion at the end of 2008, according to economists at
the New York-based Council on Foreign Relations.  In Qatar, holder of the world’s third-largest gas reserves,
the Qatar Investment Authority is snapping up assets to reduce
its dependency on energy revenues. The fund had $30 billion to
invest last year, QIA board member Hussain Al Abdulla said in
April.  ’Room to Expand’  While Wells Fargo is seeking to expand in the region,
lenders including Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse Group AG, are
cutting staff in Dubai as trading dwindles and clients postpone
share sales. Average daily trading volume in Dubai this year is
about 50 percent less than the amount traded in the same period
in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Some of the large international banks are scaling down
here because they had big teams to begin with,” Hassan said.
“We are very small and so have plenty of room to expand. There
is enough business for us to grow.”  “Our capability is very much U.S. dollars and the market
here is U.S. dollars,” Hassan said. “We have liquidity and we
can share that with our clients.”  Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , the Omaha, Nebraska-
based  investment company , holds a  stake  of about 8 percent in
Wells Fargo, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wells Fargo declined 1.1 percent to $34.76 in New York
yesterday. They have gained about 2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  