-- Why Democracies Aren’t Good at Bridge-Building
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-02-05T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/why-democracies-aren-t-good-at-bridge-building.html
The London School of Economics Growth
Commission, a panel of academics, former government officials
and business leaders, has just published a report on how to
improve Britain’s economic performance.  “Investing for
Prosperity”  is a notable piece of work that deserves to be
widely read, and not just in Britain.  The report emphasizes policies on human capital, investment
and innovation, and the limits of standard measures of
prosperity. The latter takes up a theme recently discussed by
Bloomberg View -- the failings of gross domestic product as a
metric of economic success. The authors urge governments and the
news media to pay as much attention to median household income
as they do to GDP, arguing that it gives a better reading on
living standards as experienced by most citizens. Good advice.  I was especially struck, though, by the panel’s
recommendations on infrastructure, because these draw attention
to a broad and difficult issue that dwells just beneath the
surface of many policy debates: What is the proper balance
between democracy and technocracy?  Lamentable Management  On infrastructure, which the panel considers a high
priority, it advises the U.K. to create a “new institutional
architecture” that would “dramatically reduce the policy
instability that arises from frequent changes in political
personnel and priorities, particularly in transport and energy.”
The commission suggests an Infrastructure Strategy Board to
advise parliament on broad priorities; an independent
Infrastructure Planning Commission with new planning powers; and
an Infrastructure Bank to help provide finance and counsel on
the management of risk.  As the report documents, the management of public-
infrastructure projects has been lamentable. No private firm
could survive the errors that governments have made with
taxpayers’ money. One multinational review of infrastructure
projects, which I warmly recommend, is aptly called  “Survival of
the Unfittest.”  The author, Bent Flyvbjerg, a professor of
project management at the University of Oxford, found that nine
out of 10 transport-infrastructure projects (across 20 countries
and five continents) suffered cost overruns; benefits, on the
other hand, were systematically exaggerated.  Flyvbjerg concludes that project promoters and forecasters
“intentionally use the following formula in order to secure
approval and funding for their projects: Underestimated costs +
overestimated benefits = funding.”  In Britain, and still less in the U.S., nobody could look
around and conclude that the problem is too much infrastructure
investment. Rather, the problem is too many badly chosen and
badly managed projects and too few well-chosen and well-managed
ones.  The U.S. suffers especially from the aging of poorly
maintained critical infrastructure that was built decades ago,
when the country led the world in this kind of investment.
According to the American Society of Civil Engineers, the
 cumulative gap  between the U.S.’s vital infrastructure needs and
likely investments will stand at $1.1 trillion by 2020.  Compounding that problem is the intensely political nature
of the selection process for new infrastructure. The long
tradition of earmarks -- which institutionalizes the principle,
“You support my worthless project and I’ll support yours” -- has
produced impressively empty roads in many parts of the country,
while vital aspects of the infrastructure network are crumbling
and congested.  Partisan Pork  The LSE commission’s proposal -- put more control of
infrastructure in the hands of nonpolitical technocrats, subject
to parliamentary oversight and strategic guidance -- is an
approach that might make even more sense in the U.S. than it
would in Britain. Why? Because public policy in the U.S. is far
more politicized than in the U.K. Britain’s top civil servants
aren’t political appointees. Its public-policy scholars aren’t
generally associated with one or another political party. Civil
society has a very large, nonaligned component. In the U.S.,
this isn’t so.  Of course, the American tradition of political alignment
and engagement makes the empowerment of a nonpartisan
technocracy culturally impossible, even as, in certain areas
such as infrastructure planning, it makes such empowerment more
necessary. The breakdown of collaborative bipartisan politics in
Washington only heightens the dilemma.  When Democrats and Republicans were closer ideological
neighbors, transitions of power didn’t call for wholesale
reversals of policy. Since the mid-1990s, the distance between
the parties has widened. In this  new world , transitions of power
are far more disruptive -- despite the system’s many checks and
balances. A coherent strategy on infrastructure, an unavoidably
long-term undertaking, is difficult to form. This may be the
biggest threat to the country’s success over time.  The technocratic tendency can certainly be taken too far.
This tradition is far more pronounced in continental Europe than
in Britain, let alone the U.S. And the  European Union  -- itself
a technocratic project par excellence -- underlines the
drawbacks of letting the tendency go too far. When technocrats
get too unmoored from popular opinion, the results are usually
terrible, not just in the sense of being anti-democratic but
also measured against the technocrats’ preferred metric of
efficiency. The creation of the euro is the classic instance.  The challenge is to get the mix right. And the idea, please
note, isn’t entirely alien even to the U.S. Consider central
banking. Aside from Congress, the Federal Reserve might be the
most powerful single institution in the country. It deals with
intensely political questions. Yet it’s a technocratic outfit --
non-partisan, subject to congressional oversight but with
substantial de facto independence, a freedom it has used to the
maximum in the past several years.  And thank heavens for that. Who would want U.S. monetary
policy to be run with the same sense of purpose, intelligence
and decisiveness that Congress brings to fiscal policy?  Yet the powers granted to the Fed are a glaring anomaly in
the American political tradition. As desirable as a measured
step toward nonpartisan technocracy might be in fiscal policy,
and especially on infrastructure investment and other long-term
strategic priorities, I don’t see it happening in the U.S. This
is a country too much in love with politics. Let’s hope that
won’t stand as the nation’s economic epitaph.  ( Clive Crook  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Clive Crook  at  ccrook5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 