-- World Risks ‘Perfect Storm’ on Capital Flows, Carstens Says
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-02-05T06:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/world-may-face-perfect-storm-on-capital-flows-carstens-says.html
A “perfect storm” may be forming in
the world economy as signs of a recovery spur capital flows to
 emerging markets  and some advanced nations that may lead to
asset bubbles, Banco de Mexico Governor Agustin Carstens said.  “Risk appetite among investors has returned and the search
for yield is in full force,” Carstens said in a speech in
Singapore today. “Concerns of asset-price bubbles fed by credit
booms are starting to appear.”  The risk of a “currency war” has surfaced as monetary
easing from  Japan  to the U.S. spurs demand for higher-yielding
assets and boosts inflows into emerging markets. Russia warned
last month that Japan’s currency-weakening policies may lead to
reciprocal action as nations try to protect their export
industries, while South Korea and the  Philippines  have said
they’ll consider how to reduce the impact of such funds.  “My fear is that a perfect storm might be forming as a
result of massive capital flows to some emerging market
economies,” Carstens said. “This could lead to bubbles,
characterized by asset mispricing, and then face a reversal in
flows as the major advanced economies start exiting their
accommodative monetary policy stance.”  Carstens said Japan is one country that is “actively
pursuing a depreciating real exchange rate strategy.”.  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign to expand
monetary easing and revive his nation’s economy is driving down
the yen, aiding exports of electronics and automobiles. The yen
fell to a 2 1/2 year low on Feb. 1.  Japan’s Policy  Panasonic Corp. this week reported an unexpected third-
quarter profit, helped in part by the weaker currency.  “I wouldn’t go as far to suggest we’re going to go for a
full-blown currency war, but I do think there will be tensions
and frictions intensifying,” said  Mitul Kotecha , Hong Kong-
based head of currency strategy at Credit Agricole SA.
“Obviously, Japan set the cat amongst the pigeons with its more
aggressive stance on the yen.”  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has unleashed the
power of the central bank to buy unlimited amounts of Treasury
and mortgage-backed securities in a bid to end a four-year
period of unemployment above 7.5 percent. The European Central
Bank has pledged to buy unlimited quantities of government bonds
if necessary to save the euro, while the  Bank of Japan (8301)  said last
month it will shift to open-ended asset purchases next year.  “We have to live with this unconventional monetary policy
in the largest economies,” Carstens said at the event organized
by  Singapore ’s central bank. “We need to take care of the
hazards that these inflows represent from the financial
vulnerability point of view.”  Emerging Markets  Philippine central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said last
month he’s studying more measures to counter excessive capital
inflows lured by growth. South Korea should consider taxes on
currency trading and bonds to help limit “speculative” inflows
of capital, Deputy Finance Minister Choi Jong Ku said Jan. 30.  “We need to avoid competitive currency devaluations.”
Ravi Menon, managing director of Singapore’s central bank, said
today. Past episodes of currency friction “have only led to
more misery and further downward spirals,” he said.  An avoidance of the so-called U.S. fiscal cliff, a gradual
and steady progress of reforms in  Europe  and faster growth in
 China  have helped improved market sentiment, Carstens said.  “A word of caution is in order, though,” he said.
“Substantial vulnerabilities and downside risks still
persist.”  Stocks Rise  Stocks in the world’s developed nations posted the best
start to a year in two decades. The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of stocks
in 24 markets rose 5 percent in January, the most since 1994, as
individual investors pumped record deposits into mutual funds,
U.S. profits increased for an 11th quarter, central banks kept
interest rates at record lows and economic growth from Europe to
China improved.  Economic confidence  in the euro region rose to a seven-
month high in January, adding to signs that the 17-nation
currency bloc may be emerging from a recession. American
employers added 157,000 workers last month, a government report
showed last week.  Carstens, a former finance minister and International
Monetary Fund deputy managing director who sought the
organization’s top job in 2011, has led  Mexico ’s central bank
since January 2010 and kept the benchmark rate at a record-low
4.5 percent throughout his tenure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 