-- Yale Suing Former Students Shows Crisis in Loans to Poor
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2013-02-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/yale-suing-former-students-shows-crisis-in-loans-to-poor.html
Needy U.S. borrowers are defaulting
on almost $1 billion in federal student loans earmarked for the
poor, leaving schools such as  Yale University  and the  University
of Pennsylvania  with little choice except to sue their
graduates.  The record defaults on federal Perkins loans may jeopardize
the prospects of current students since they are part of a
revolving fund that colleges give to students who show
extraordinary financial hardship.  Yale, Penn and  George Washington  University have all sued
former students over nonpayment, court records show. While no
one tracks the number of lawsuits, students defaulted on $964
million in Perkins loans in the year ended June 2011, 20 percent
more than five years earlier, government data show. Unlike most
student loans -- distributed and collected by the federal
government -- Perkins loans are administered by colleges, which
use repayment money to lend to other poor students.  “If you borrow to go to school, it may not be just the
government that ends up coming after you if you can’t pay,”
said Deanne Loonin, an attorney with the  National Consumer Law
Center , a nonprofit advocacy group in  Boston . “We offer credit
very easily.” If the student doesn’t benefit financially from
the education, “the government or the school comes after them
very aggressively.”  Perkins Pot  The increase in the amount of defaulted loans among poor
students comes as President  Barack Obama  says he wants to expand
access to college for working-class families and increase
funding for the  Perkins program . Under his proposal, the pot for
Perkins loans would increase to $8.5 billion from about $1
billion. The Education Department would service the loans
instead of colleges.  Aaron Graff, a farmer’s son from Denver, graduated from
George  Washington  in 2010 with the help of $62,500 in
scholarships over two years, according to his financial-aid
award letters. He defaulted on $4,000 in Perkins loans.  Graff, 30, said he hasn’t been able to find a full-time
job. He earns $800 a month from teaching high-school equivalency
courses and restores basements for extra money. He said he is
trying to pay off other  student loans  first because they were
co-signed by his parents.  “I live on the bare minimum,” he said. “It’s not like
I’m defaulting on my student loans to live the lavish life. I’m
defaulting on my loans because I really don’t have it.”  Multiple Debts  George Washington’s financial-aid office e-mailed Graff at
least twice since last February, warning him of the delinquency
and offering to work out a repayment plan. It filed a lawsuit in
May 2012 in  District of Columbia  Superior Court. Graff lost a
default judgment in December for $5,050 including interest and
attorney fees because he didn’t attend the hearing, according to
court records.  Repaying Perkins loans may be a lower priority for
borrowers with multiple debts, said Nancy Coolidge, associate
director of student financial support for the  University of
California  system. They may be more likely to pay back private
student loans first because they can carry much higher interest
rates, she said.  Perkins loans are given to the most at-risk students, and
“they may have the least ability to pay it back,” Coolidge
said.  When students don’t repay, colleges say they are obliged to
recover the money on behalf of taxpayers. Schools including
George Washington say they first try to work with delinquent
students to repay the loans, then warn them they may be sued,
and only then turn to debt collectors and the courts.  Student Obligations  “Perkins loans are issued from a revolving fund, so any
monies recovered through litigation increase universities’
ability to help other students with education costs,” Candace
Smith, a spokeswoman for George Washington, said in an e-mail.
The university doesn’t comment on specific lawsuits, she said.  Students who take these loans have an obligation to pay
them back, said Neal McCluskey an associate director at the  Cato
Institute  in Washington.  “You could take a job at Subway or wherever to pay the
bills and that’s something you need to do if you have agreed in
taking a loan to pay it back,” McCluskey said. “It seems like
basic responsibility to me.”  The  interest rate  on Perkins loans is 5 percent, and
students get a nine-month grace period after leaving school or
graduating. In the 2007-2008 academic year, 64 percent of
Perkins loan recipients reported parental income of less than
$50,000, according to  Mark Kantrowitz , who runs finaid.org, a
website on educational lending.  College Costs  With college costs climbing faster than the rate of
inflation over the past four decades, students have taken out
more loans, swelling outstanding education debt to $1 trillion,
more than what Americans owe on their credit cards.  The  University of Pennsylvania  filed at least a dozen
Perkins lawsuits last year, according to court records. Penn,
based in Philadelphia, gave out more than $8 million in Perkins
loans in the year ending June 2012, according to the school.  The university is seeking to recoup $22,607 from Kyle P.
Lopinto, including $7,000 in Perkins loans and $15,039 in unpaid
tuition charges, plus attorneys’ fees of $3,027 and additional
interest and anticipated court costs of $387, according to a
suit filed on Nov. 15 in the Philadelphia County Court of Common
Pleas. An arbitration hearing is scheduled for July.  Promissory Note  Lopinto, who signed a promissory note in June 2008 to study
at Penn’s  School of Design , according to the university’s court
filing, didn’t return messages left with his father or by e-
mail. According to his website, he earned a master’s degree in
sculpture from the school in 2010.  Penn declined to comment on specific student cases.  Penn refers loans to a collection agency when they have
been delinquent for 120 days. Michelle Brown-Nevers, an
associate vice president, declined to discuss thresholds because
she said she didn’t want to reveal collection practices.  “We try all practices possible,” Brown-Nevers said in an
interview. “When we’re not able to work it out outside of
court, that’s going to be the place of resolution.”  Yale is suing Elizabeth M. Triggs, who studied there
between 2001 and 2006 and signed five promissory notes totaling
$8,255 under the Perkins program, according to a filing in
Superior Court of  New Haven  last year.  Unpaid Perkins  She defaulted in September 2010, leaving a combined
principal balance of $6,455 plus $2,880 in collection fees,
according to the filing. In an e-mail, Triggs declined to
comment.  Federal law requires that Yale attempt to collect unpaid
Perkins money,  Tom Conroy , a university spokesman, said in an e-
mail. Accounts must be at least 120 days past due before being
referred to a collection agency, he said.  “Litigation is a last resort collection effort for all of
our student-loan borrowers,” he said.  Yale, in New Haven,  Connecticut , stopped offering Perkins
loans to undergraduates in the 2008-2009 academic year when it
increased other types of financial aid and eliminated loans,
Conroy said. Yale, the second-wealthiest U.S. college, following
 Harvard University , has an endowment valued at $19.3 billion as
of June 2012. Penn, with an endowment of $6.8 billion, is the
11th-richest.  Students who take out Perkins loans aren’t eligible for
government  income-based repayment  plans when they run into
financial trouble, unlike borrowers from the more popular
Stafford loan program used by many middle-income families. Such
repayment plans let students with high debt relative to their
paychecks make smaller payments over time. Colleges can work
with Perkins students to develop individual plans.  Financial Counseling  While schools making Perkins loans aren’t required to offer
financial counseling for students entering college, the
Education Department recommends stressing that repayment is
required regardless of educational outcome or “subsequent
employment or lack thereof.”  The federal government also lets universities and debt
collectors charge higher collection fees than Stafford when they
pursue a Perkins debtor.  On the first attempt, schools can charge 30 percent of loan
principal, along with interest and late fees. They can charge 40
percent for the second effort and an additional 40 percent on
litigation, according to the Education Department.  The fees are higher than the  25 percent  allowed for
government-backed Stafford loans because the lower value of the
Perkins ones makes them less appealing to collection agencies in
terms of commissions, said Dan Madzelan, a former Education
Department official.  Not Practical  The University of California system tries to use its own
personnel before suing Perkins debtors because balances are
relatively small, said Coolidge. When borrowers don’t have
assets or income, winning a judgment doesn’t actually result in
collecting the money, she said.  “It’s not that we wouldn’t do it,” she said. “It’s not
that practical.”  The cases are George Washington University v. Graff, 2012-
sc3-3308, District of Columbia Superior court (Washington);
University of Pennsylvania v. Lopinto, 1211011562, Philadelphia
County Court of Common Pleas; Yale University v. Triggs, CV-12-
6027993-S, Connecticut Superior Court (New Haven).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in  New York  
 jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 