-- Yen Falls to 94 Per Dollar for 1st Time Since 2010 on BOJ
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-02-06T07:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/yen-touches-almost-3-year-low-versus-euro-dollar-on-boj-change.html
The yen weakened to 94 per dollar for
the first time since May 2010 on speculation Japan’s government
will hasten the selection of a new central bank chief to take
further steps to end deflation.  Japan’s currency added to yesterday’s biggest drop versus
the euro in more than a week after Bank of Japan Governor
 Masaaki Shirakawa  said he will step down on March 19, almost
three weeks before his term is due to end. Demand for the 17-
nation euro was supported on prospects the European Central Bank
will refrain from easing monetary policy tomorrow. Australia’s
dollar slid after data showed the nation’s retail sales
unexpectedly fell in December.  “The new BOJ governor is expected to be someone who will
push easing hard,” said  Masato Yanagiya , the head of currency
and money trading in New York at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp.,
a unit of Japan’s second-biggest financial group by market
value. “The yen weakness trend is likely to remain.”  The yen touched 94.06 per dollar, the lowest since May 5,
2010, before trading at 93.92 at 7:01 a.m. in London, down 0.3
percent from the close in New York. It fell 0.2 percent to
127.44 per euro, after dropping to 127.71, the weakest since
April 2010. The common currency slid 0.1 percent to $1.3571.  Japan’s Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe  will present his
candidate for the next BOJ governor to opposition parties after
a visit to the U.S. this month, public broadcaster NHK reported
today, without saying where it got the information. Shirakawa’s
exit coincides with the departure of two deputy governors.  BOJ Candidates  The short-list to replace Shirakawa is probably composed of
Asian Development Bank President  Haruhiko Kuroda  and former BOJ
Deputy Governors  Kazumasa Iwata  and  Toshiro Muto , wrote  Masaaki Kanno , chief economist at JPMorgan Securities Japan Co., who
used to work at the central bank, in a note last month.  Abe has repeatedly said he wants the BOJ to take
responsibility for the 2 percent inflation target it agreed to
set last month. His government has defined ending deflation as
central to efforts to revive the world’s third-biggest economy.  The International Monetary Fund supports the nation’s
efforts to end deflation, a government official said today. IMF
Deputy Managing Director  David Lipton  told Economy Minister
 Akira Amari  that Japan is going in right direction in trying to
achieve the 2 percent inflation goal, a Cabinet official told
reporters, asking not to be named because of government policy.  The yen tumbled 17 percent over the past three months, the
biggest decline among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro gained 5.2
percent, and the dollar lost 1.2 percent during the same period.  Yen RSI  The Japanese currency’s 14-day relative strength index
against the dollar was at 23 today, below the 30 level that some
traders see as a signal an asset has fallen too rapidly and may
be due to reverse course. Against the euro, it was 25.  “Moves in the yen hinge on how strong the government and
BOJ’s will is to weaken the currency,” said  Daisuke Karakama , a
market economist in Tokyo at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd., a unit
of Japan’s third-largest banking group by market value. “Yen
weakness will stay for a long time with occasional
corrections.”  In Europe, the ECB, which has held its main refinancing
rate at 0.75 percent since July, will probably make no change at
tomorrow’s policy meeting, according to all 60  economists 
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Speculation that the ECB will cut interest rates has
receded,” said SMBC’s Yanagiya. “The bias is for the euro to
strengthen.”  Euro Strength  The shared currency rose against a majority of its peers
yesterday after Luxembourg Finance Minister  Luc Frieden  said the
currency’s level doesn’t concern him and its strength follows
the economic reality of the euro zone.  “This reflects the fundamental data of the European
economy and I highlight that a year ago we thought that the euro
was incredibly weak,” Frieden said in an interview in Zurich.  Frieden’s comments contrasted with French President
 Francois Hollande , who said yesterday the euro area has to use
the currency as an export-promoting tool just like the U.S. and
China.  Government data due today are forecast to show German
factory orders rose 0.7 percent in December from November, when
they dropped 1.8 percent, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News poll.  Retail sales in Australia fell 0.2 percent in December from
the previous month, when they dropped a revised 0.2 percent, the
Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today. The median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey of economists for a 0.3 percent gain.  The so-called Aussie dropped 0.5 percent to $1.0337 after
touching $1.0336, the lowest level since Dec. 25.  “The weaker-than-expected retail sales numbers rubbed salt
into the Australian dollar’s wounds,”  Emmanuel Ng , a currency
strategist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in Singapore, wrote
in a research note today. “With the breach of $1.0400, markets
may potentially look” to the 200-day moving average of $1.0312.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  