-- Yuan Snaps Two-Day Decline as Export Growth Seen Accelerating
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-02-05T09:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/yuan-snaps-two-day-decline-as-export-growth-seen-accelerating.html
The  yuan  advanced for the first time
in three days before data due this week that economists forecast
will show exports rising at the fastest pace in almost a year.  Overseas sales  increased 17 percent in January, the most
since February 2012, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey before an official report on Feb. 8.
China’s services output expanded in January at the fastest pace
in four months, according to a Purchasing Managers’ Index
released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said
today. China’s financial markets will be closed next week for
the Lunar New Year holidays.  “Demand for commodities and goods usually rises before the
weeklong New Year holidays,” said Kenix Lai, a currency analyst
at  Bank of East Asia Ltd. (23)  in Hong Kong. This will increase
pressure for the yuan to strengthen, she said.  The yuan rose 0.05 percent to close at 6.2294 dollar in
Shanghai, prices from the China Foreign Exchange Trade System
show. The People’s Bank of China raised the currency’s daily
 fixing  by 0.02 percent to 6.2850 per dollar today. That’s the
first increase in three days. The yuan is allowed to diverge a
maximum 1 percent from the  reference rate .  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  climbed 0.5 percent since the end of last
week on concern Europe’s debt crisis will worsen. The yield on
Spain’s 10-year government bonds are at an eight-week high as
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  struggles to impose austerity and
restore confidence amid calls for him to resign on corruption
allegations. Rates on Italian debt rose as polls showed  Silvio
Berlusconi  had closed the gap on his rival before elections this
month even as he appeals a prison sentence for tax fraud.  One-month implied volatility in the yuan, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
dropped five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.3
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan gained 0.05
percent to 6.2145 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards climbed 0.07 percent to
6.3185, trading at a 1.4 percent discount to the onshore spot
rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  