-- Yum Profits Hit as China Renews Consumer Protection Push
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-05T10:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/yum-profits-hit-as-china-strengthens-consumer-protection-push.html
Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , owner of the KFC
and Pizza Hut dining chains, said the impact of a government
probe into its former chicken suppliers in China is growing as a
food safety scandal hurts demand.  Profit excluding certain items will decline this year,
versus a previous estimate for growth of 10 percent, the
Louisville, Kentucky-based company said in a statement
yesterday. Yum, which got more than half its  total sales  from
China last year, said negative publicity from the scandal will
continue to weigh on sales in the first quarter.  Yum’s same-store sales fell in the world’s second-largest
economy last quarter after  Shanghai ’s food safety commission
said Dec. 20 that third-party tests found excessive levels of
antibiotics in some of its chicken samples between 2010 and
2011. It joins foreign companies from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to
 Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG)  in being challenged by China’s
renewed efforts to improve consumer protection.  “The past seven weeks of media attention have been intense
and negative towards the KFC brand image,” the company said in
yesterday’s statement. “Even though this is a very
disappointing setback, we are more committed than ever to
continue to strengthen our efforts, restore the confidence of
our customers and win back their brand loyalty.”  Yum’s China same-store sales may fall 25 percent in the
first two months of the year, and revenue at existing KFC
outlets will improve as the year progresses and “be positive”
in the fourth quarter of 2013, the company forecast.  Shares Drop  Shares of Yum slid 5.4 percent to $60.48 in late trading in
 New York  yesterday. The stock gained 13 percent last year, while
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Restaurants Index lost 2.6 percent.  China’s state broadcaster first reported on Dec. 18 that
some of Yum’s former poultry suppliers were found to have sold
chickens with excessive levels of antibiotics.  The incident prompted the vice-chairman for the U.S. fast
food chain to apologize to Chinese consumers on KFC’s official
China microblog. Even after the apology, the official Xinhua
News Agency published an editorial criticizing Yum and other
foreign companies for failing to ensure quality standards.  Yum said in yesterday’s statement it would start a brand
reputation quality campaign, along with “aggressive marketing
plans” to reassure consumers of the safety of its food. The
restaurant operator will also proceed with plans to open at
least 700 stores in the nation this year, it said.  Safety Risks  Reports of contaminated milk, faulty car components and
overcharging by retailers have riled Chinese buyers, prompting
the authorities to step up consumer protection. Incoming Premier
 Li Keqiang  called for local governments to crack down on illegal
food markets and prevent safety risks, according to a Jan. 24
radio broadcast.  Li, who is set to assume his new position next month, was
in 2010 named head of a food safety commission dealing with
errant producers after a tainted milk scandal resulted in the
death of six babies in 2008.  Regulation and supervision in China’s food manufacturing
and processing industry has lagged the industry’s significant
growth in the past decade, market researcher Mintel Group said
in a report last year. About 500,000 companies in the nation are
engaged in food production and processing, versus 30,000 in the
U.S., it said. Progress on combating food scares may be limited
given the number of companies and scale of the task, according
to the report.  This year, the  General Administration of Quality,
Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine ,  China ’s quality
watchdog, introduced laws holding manufacturers ranging from
carmakers to dairy importers responsible for faulty products and
contaminated food.  Windshield Wipers, Milk  The rules allow China to order investigations and impose
fines should manufacturers fail to recall faulty vehicles in a
timely manner. Toyota, the world’s largest automaker,
voluntarily recalled 22,869 Lexus cars in the country on Jan. 31
because of defects with windshield wipers.  AQSIQ, as the watchdog is known, will also put in place
tougher rules and penalties governing dairy imports and exports
starting May, it said in a statement posted on its website on
Feb. 1. This comes after  New Zealand ’s Fonterra, the world’s
largest dairy exporter, said it found traces of an agricultural
chemical in its  milk products .  Dairy producers whose imports do not meet safety standards
may be fined as much as 10 times the value of their goods, the
agency said. Import licenses may be revoked in serious cases.  Chinese Liquor  “They obviously realized the consumer is concerned,” Paul French, Shanghai-based analyst at Mintel said in an interview.
“Yet, law without enforcement is nothing.”  China has also dealt with pricing issues at 76 large errant
retailers found overcharging consumers, the Ministry of Commerce
also said in a statement on its website yesterday.  Domestic producers have also been affected. Jishou, Hunan-
based liquor maker  JiuGuiJiu Co. (000799)  apologized in December when
samples of its drinks were found to have more than three times
the permitted level of dibutyl phthalate, a plasticizer used to
flavor drinks and in plastic containers.  Shanghai’s food safety office pledged to crack down on the
sale of fake Kobe beef after authorities found some Japanese
restaurants were passing off Chinese and Australian meat as the
delicacy, the  China Daily  reported today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  