-- Zambia Attracts African, Saudi Firms for Oil Hunt Partnerships
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-02-05T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/zambia-attracts-african-saudi-firms-for-oil-hunt-partnerships.html
ZCCM Investment Holdings Plc (MLZAM) , the
company 88 percent owned by the Zambian government, has received
interest from African and Saudi Arabian companies in
partnerships to explore for oil and gas in the country.  The company, which owns stakes in  Glencore International
Plc’s (GLEN)  and  Vedanta Resources Plc’s (VED)  local copper operations, has
four oil and gas exploration blocks in the North-Western
province that borders Angola and  Democratic Republic of Congo .  “We will work with other partners so that we can benefit
from their experiences in these areas, particularly for oil and
gas,” Chief Executive Officer Mukela Muyunda said in a Jan. 31
interview in Lusaka, the capital. He declined to identify the
companies that have expressed an interest in oil and gas
exploration.  Zambia, Africa’s biggest copper producer, wants to
diversify its economy away from the metal that accounts for
about 75 percent of export earnings, to protect the country from
price fluctuations. The landlocked southern African nation also
imports all its liquid fuels and has the highest petroleum
prices in the region, according to the government.  ZCCM is “seriously considering establishing an exploration
subsidiary” that would have separate divisions searching for
oil, gas and base metals, Muyunda said. The proposal will go to
the board for approval in March, he said.  Zambia produces no oil and gas and has yet to discover any
resources, although its neighbors Angola,  Democratic Republic  of
Congo, Mozambique, and Tanzania either produce or have known
reserves.  Companies including Nigeria’s  Oando Energy Resources (OER) , Rapid
African Energy Ltd., the South African explorer, and Isle of
Man-based Petrodel Resources Ltd. own oil and gas exploration
blocks in Zambia. Nigeria is Africa’s biggest oil producer,
followed by Angola.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  