-- Zimmer Told to Pay Stryker $70 Million in Patent Case
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-02-06T14:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-05/zimmer-told-to-pay-stryker-70-million-for-surgical-tool-patents.html
(Corrects to say trial was in Grand Rapids in second
paragraph of story published Feb. 5.)  Zimmer Holdings Inc.  was told to pay
$70 million to  Stryker Corp.  for infringing patents related to a
device that removes damaged tissue and cleans bones during
joint-replacement surgery.  Zimmer infringed three Stryker patents, a federal jury in
Grand Rapids, Michigan, said today. The jury also found the
infringement was willful, meaning U.S. District Judge  Robert Jonker  can increase the award.  The dispute is over devices that use pulsing liquid, such
as water or saline solution, to loosen debris from a surgical
site and remove it by suction. The process clears the area for
the doctors to see better during orthopedic surgery.  “Stryker has some pioneering inventions,” said  Greg
Vogler , a lawyer at McAndrews Held & Malloy in Chicago, who
represented Stryker in the trial. “Zimmer just took them
recklessly and judgment day came.”  Stryker’s claim targeted Zimmer’s Pulsavac products, which
compete with Stryker’s Surgilav and InterPulse machines.  The  Pulsavac  wound debridement system is part of Warsaw,
Indiana-based Zimmer’s surgical unit, which generated $386
million in sales last year, or about 9 percent of the company’s
revenue, Zimmer said Jan. 31.  Pursuing Appeal  “Zimmer is disappointed with the verdict and plans to
pursue all available post-trial relief including an appeal in
due course,” said Garry Clark, a spokesman for Zimmer.  Stryker’s MedSurg Equipment unit, which includes sales of
surgical supplies like the SurgiLav and InterPulse, generated
$3.27 billion in sales last year, more than a third of the
company’s revenue, the Kalamazoo, Michigan-based device-maker
reported Jan. 23.  Stryker said it was entitled to damages dating back to
2004. Zimmer, which said Stryker wasn’t entitled to anything,
said any compensation should be limited to products sold after
December 2010. The jury found that almost $255 million worth of
Zimmer sales since the products were introduced infringed at
least two of the patents.  The case is Stryker Corp. v. Zimmer Inc., 10cv1223, U.S.
District Court for the Western District of Michigan (Grand
Rapids).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  