-- 
L.A. Water Agency, Puerto Rico Sell as Ratings Cuts Broaden: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-08-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/l-a-water-agency-puerto-rico-sell-as-ratings-cuts-broaden-muni-credit.html
Los Angeles ’s water agency and Puerto
Rico’s building authority, this week’s biggest issuers, are
selling even after the commonwealth was downgraded by Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  began to lower top-rated
municipal bonds.  A flight to  credit quality  and this week’s $2.8 billion of
municipal sales, the lowest week of issuance in August since
2003, may help issuers grab investor attention. In the first day
of pricing since S&P cut the U.S.’s top rating Aug. 5, the 10-
year Treasury yield fell yesterday by 24 basis points to 2.32
percent, the lowest level since January 2009. Yields on top-
rated 10-year general obligations ended at 2.38 percent
yesterday, after hitting a 2011 low of 2.4 percent last week.  S&P yesterday cut the ratings on about $366 million of
federal lease-backed bonds as it began to announce reports on
municipal securities affected by its downgrade of the U.S. Chris Mier, a managing director at Loop Capital Markets LLC in
 Chicago , said yesterday in a call with reporters and clients
that S&P would have to make a lot of municipal downgrades to
keep the system logical and coherent.  “Good quality issuers, even if they’re downgraded, are
going to have no problem accessing the market,” he said. “An
entity that’s been downgraded that’s viewed as economically
vulnerable, it may not have the opportunity.”  Juan Carlos Batlle, president of Puerto Rico’s Government
Development Bank, said the Public Buildings Authority would
pursue its $225 million lease-revenue bond sale backed by the
commonwealth’s pledge even after Moody’s yesterday downgraded to
Baa1 from A3 more than $9 billion of general obligations.  Information Digested  The deal also follows the U.S. credit downgrade, the first
in the country’s history. The development bank is  Puerto Rico ’s
borrowing agent.  “Obviously things can change, but we feel that the markets
have digested this information,” Batlle said in a telephone
interview prior to Moody’s downgrade announcement. “Probably
not on the equity side, which has been getting hammered, but on
the Treasury side there’s been a slight rally of the 10-year
note. So we’re planning on going ahead with the deal.”  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  plunged 634.76 points as
approximately $2.5 trillion was erased from global equities
yesterday.  New York-based Ramirez & Co. is set to price the bonds,
which are exempt from federal, state and local taxes, to
individual buyers as soon as today followed by sales to
institutional investors tomorrow.  Loans Repayment  The Puerto Rico sale doesn’t include refunding bonds,
according to preliminary offering documents. It will help repay
loans the  development bank  extended to the authority, help
finance construction of new buildings, and according to the
development bank, restructure existing authority debt to save
$150 million in the commonwealth’s debt servicing for fiscal
2012.  Los Angeles Department of Water and Power  also plans to
sell $311.7 million of water-revenue bonds as soon as Aug. 11.
The authority declined to comment on the issue and why it’s
choosing to access the capital markets at this time.  Proceeds will refund portions of the water department’s
Series 2001A bonds and its Series 2004C bonds, according to the
offering document.  Municipal issuance for the next month totals $3.82 billion,
the lowest 30-day supply since May 27.  Outflows from muni-bond funds may be prolonged as a result
of the instability after S&P’s downgrade of the U.S., Peter DeGroot, head of municipal research at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
wrote in an Aug. 5 report following the federal rating cut.
Investors withdrew about $861 million from U.S. mutual funds in
the week through Aug. 3, according to Denver-based Lipper US
Fund Flows. It was the second straight week of outflows and the
biggest since April.  “We stand at the precipice of another round of the muni
media beatdown,” which could lead to continued outflows from
municipal mutual funds, Loop’s Mier said during the conference
call.  Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
debt:  EMORY UNIVERSITY, a private university in Atlanta serving
13,400 students, plans to borrow $218.8 million of revenue debt
as soon as this week. Proceeds will refund existing bonds. The
school is rated Aa2, the third-highest grade from Moody’s.
Private Colleges and Universities Authority of Georgia is the
conduit issuer for the transaction.  Barclays Capital  will lead a
syndicate of banks on the sale. (Added Aug. 8)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  