-- 
‘Blade Runner’ Amputee Pistorius Is on South Africa Squad for Track Worlds

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-08-09T13:30:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/-blade-runner-amputee-pistorius-is-on-south-africa-squad-for-track-worlds.html
Oscar Pistorius will be the first
amputee sprinter to compete at a world championship after being
named in  South Africa ’s squad for the event in  South Korea .  The 24-year-old double amputee, known as “the Blade
Runner,” will be South Africa’s sole participant in the 400-
meter race and the 4x400 meter relay, according to a statement
on his agent’s website. The World Athletics Championships begin
Aug. 27 in Daegu.  In July, Pistorius made the qualifying time for this
year’s championships and the 2012  London  Olympics with a
personal-best of 45.07 seconds in the 400 meters in a meet in
Lignano,  Italy . He had to run faster than 45.25 seconds.  “I have dreamt for such a long time of competing in a
major championship and this is a very proud moment in my life,”
Pistorius said on the website. “It is an honor to be
representing my country at such a prestigious event.”  Pistorius was born without fibulas and had both legs
amputated below the knee when he was 11 months old.  In May 2008, the Court of Arbitration for Sport overturned
a ban on his competing against able-bodied athletes. The
International Association of Athletics Federations, track and
field’s governing body, had ruled that his J-shaped carbon fiber
blades gave him an advantage.  Caster Semenya, the 800-meter world champion, was also
named to the South African squad. She was banned from competing
for 11 months because of questions about her sex after she took
the world title in Berlin two years ago.  Semenya set a season-best time of 1 minute 55.45 seconds
with her victory at the 2009 championships, shortly after
finding out that her gender had been questioned by the IAAF
because of her muscular build and sudden improvement. She was
cleared to compete in July 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 