-- 
Broadway’s ‘Mormon,’ ‘Billy Elliot’ Play With Curtain Times

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-08-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/-mormon-billy-elliot-move-curtains-as-broadway-plays-with-show-times.html
In May, the producers of “Rock of
Ages,” a wry musical with a score of 1980s heavy metal songs,
announced it would replace Sunday evening’s show with an
unconventional Friday matinee.  The change rocked sales, said Matt Weaver, the lead
producer. “Last week, our Friday matinee did better than our
Friday night,” he said. “I was laughing, because ‘Rock of
Ages’ is such a party show.”  Broadway, which holds on to its traditions as firmly as
Tevye the milkman, is changing the rule book for curtain times.  Until recently, Broadway shows generally started at 8 p.m.,
except on Tuesdays, when many have a 7 p.m. curtain. Now,
however, producers are trying early curtains on other days and
adding matinees.  About half of the plays and musicals running last season
had a 7 p.m. or 7:30 p.m. curtain on evenings other than
Tuesday. (In an earlier era, as Noel Coward celebrated in
“Tonight at 8:30,” Broadway shows got underway even later.)  And like “Rock of Ages,” “ Chicago ” and “Baby It’s
You!” are offering weekday matinees on days other than
Wednesday. “Chicago” has one on Thursday. “Baby,” which is
closing Sept. 4, has them Wednesday and Friday.  “We need not be one-size fits all,” said Jordan Roth, the
president of  Jujamcyn Theaters , who oversees five Broadway
houses and has advocated for staggered start times. Differing
curtain times have been standard in London’s West End for years.  West End Way  To minimize confusion from staggering curtains, the
Broadway League  posts  start times, even if ticket buyers will
have to pay more careful attention.  “We all go to London on a regular basis; matinees can be
any day,” said Nelle Nugent, a co-producer of last season’s
“Ghetto Klown.” “Some people are always going to be late to the
theater.”  The “Rock of Ages” Friday matinee is an experiment to
draw customers from businesses that allow people to work a half-
day during the summer months. At “ Billy Elliot ,” the 2-hour-
45-minute musical imported from  London , all evening performances
start at 7:30 p.m.  “Billy Elliot prides itself on being a family show and it
made sense to specifically cater to a family audience with an
earlier evening curtain time,” producer Eric Fellner said in an
email. “Since making the change, response from our audience has
been unanimously positive.”  Even Earlier  In 2007-2008, one third of theatergoers surveyed by the
 Broadway League  said they’d prefer different schedules,
generally earlier curtains.  Many suburbanites prefer 7 p.m. and 7:30 shows, several
producers said, so they can catch earlier trains home. And many
city dwellers want to go straight from office to a performance,
then dine out after.  Charlotte  St. Martin , executive director of the league,
said she learned from her years in the hotel industry that
Wednesday is a popular day for checking in and checking out of
 Manhattan  -- not necessarily the best day for matinees.  Curtain times have been a moving target. They shifted to
7:30 in the early 1970s. In the 1973-74 season, they began
moving to 8 p.m. The most recent tinkering dates back to 2003,
when producers for most shows introduced a 7 p.m. start on
Tuesdays, which had been Broadway’s slowest night.  “It turned into people’s favorite weeknight,” said Nancy
Coyne, chief executive officer of the advertising agency  Serino
Coyne Inc. , who encouraged the switch. Her firm handles such
shows as “Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark” and “The Book of
Mormon,” both of which now have 7 p.m. and 7:30 curtains
throughout the week.  Coyne said she’s surprised Broadway waited to embrace week-
wide 7 p.m. curtains.  “It’s an industry filled with tradition, so it takes a
long time for things to change,” she said.  To contact the writer on this story:  Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 