-- 
H&R Block, Massachusetts Reach $125 Million Accord in State Mortgage Suit

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-08-09T19:07:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/h-r-block-massachusetts-reach-125-million-accord-in-state-mortgage-suit.html
The  H&R Block Inc. (HRB)  mortgage lender
formerly known as Option One Mortgage and  Massachusetts  reached
a $125 million settlement of a state lawsuit over allegedly
risky and discriminatory lending, the state said.  The unit, Sand Canyon Corp., agreed to pay $9.8 million to
Massachusetts and will direct American Home Mortgage Servicing
Inc., which services Option One loans in the state, to establish
a loan-modification program for struggling borrowers, state
Attorney General  Martha Coakley  said today in a statement.  Option One was sued by Massachusetts in 2008 and accused of
making risky loans that were doomed to fail and discriminating
against black and Latino borrowers by charging more for their
loans, Coakley said. The company’s practices were deceptive and
illegal, she said at a press conference today.  The settlement will provide an estimated $115 million in
loan modifications to homeowners, Coakley’s spokeswoman Melissa
Karpinsky said. The modifications will give Massachusetts
homeowners writedowns of principal balances and interest rate
reductions depending on features of their loans, according to
Coakley’s office.  “We are pleased with the final outcome and believe this is
good for all parties involved,” Dale Sugimoto, president of
Sand Canyon, said in a statement.  Settlement Talks  The settlement comes as state attorneys general and federal
officials are negotiating a settlement with the five largest
mortgage servicers in the U.S., including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
and JPMorgan Chase & Co., over their foreclosure and mortgage-
servicing practices.  Some attorney generals, including Coakley, have raised
concerns about liability releases in any agreement that would
protect the banks from state and federal claims. Coakley has
said that any agreement shouldn’t provide banks with releases
tied to the packaging of mortgages into securities and conduct
related to a mortgage database known as MERS.  At today’s press conference about the Sand Canyon
settlement, she repeated that stance.  “We will not settle an issue until we know all of the
facts and all of the damage,” she said.  Under the modification program, America Home will modify
loans when the changes benefit investors holding the loans, Sand
Canyon said in its statement. Sand Canyon agreed to provide a $5
million contingency to cover loan modifications that can’t be
made, it said. The maximum amount it could owe under the
settlement is $14.8 million, H&R Block spokeswoman Kate O’Neill Rauber said in an e-mail. Sand Canyon agrees that $115 million
in modifications is a reasonable estimate of potential benefit
to borrowers, she said.  Less than 5,500 loans will be affected, American Home said
in a statement. American Home, which bought the Option One
mortgage-servicing business from H&R Block, said the state’s
claims against the company will be dismissed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York 
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  