-- 
’Tapped Out’ Federal Reserve May Stay Stimulative, Ruskin Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-08-09T15:31:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/-tapped-out-federal-reserve-may-stay-stimulative-ruskin-says-tom-keene.html
The  Federal Reserve  may signal
willingness to continue monetary easing amid investor concern
that monetary policy has been exhausted, according to  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at
Deutsche Bank AG in New York.  “The biggest worry out there in fact is that policy is
somewhat tapped out and we’re in a liquidity trap,” Ruskin said
today in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with
Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene . “The Fed will probably signal
willingness to act if instability continues, but they will hold
back from acting immediately.”  Fed policy makers after today’s meeting may prolong a
pledge to maintain record stimulus, economists at JPMorgan Chase
& Co., BNP Paribas SA and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said. The Fed
could commit to hold its $2.87 trillion balance sheet steady for
an “extended period,” they said.  U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 1.3 percent annual
pace in the second quarter, slower than the 1.8 percent
forecast, after almost stalling in the first quarter as
consumers retrenched, government data showed on July 29.  “The Fed can point to that the economy has softened, but
it hasn’t weakened that dramatically so far,” he said.  By a 52 percent to 48 percent margin, respondents in a
Bloomberg News survey said the Fed would ease policy this year
through monetary tools or statement language. If the central
bank acts, 59 percent said it would communicate that the federal
funds rate, balance sheet or both will remain stimulative for a
longer period or more specific amount of time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  