-- 
Macarthur Investors May Accept Offer Amid Selloff, Analyst Says

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-08-09T04:45:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/macarthur-investors-may-accept-offer-amid-selloff-analyst-says.html
Macarthur Coal Ltd. (MCC)  shareholders may
accept  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  and ArcelorMittal’s A$15.50 a share
cash offer for the Australian mining company as global stock
prices tumble, Wilson HTM Investment Group said.  Macarthur, based in Brisbane, fell as much as 6.7 percent
to A$14 in Sydney today, about 10 percent below the offer made
on Aug. 4, which values the company at about A$4.7 billion ($4.7
billion). Peabody and ArcelorMittal said on Aug. 1 they will
take the offer directly to shareholders after Macarthur’s board
rejected the bid as too low.  “When the bid becomes live after the target statement
comes out, I can see the offer looking fairly attractive to a
number of Macarthur shareholders in the current market
conditions,” Andrew Pedler, resources analyst at Wilson HTM
Investment Group, said today by telephone from Brisbane.  Peabody and  ArcelorMittal (MT) , Macarthur’s second-largest
shareholder with a 16 percent stake, released their bidder’s
statement on Aug. 4 and a target statement will typically follow
within a month. Buying Macarthur would give the bidders
ownership of mines producing steelmaking coal in  Australia ’s
Queensland state, the world’s biggest exporter.  Macarthur fell 1.1 percent to A$14.83 at 13:55 p.m. in
Sydney, compared with a 2.4 percent drop in the S&P/ASX 200
benchmark index.  Australian stocks plunged the most in almost three years,
extending a 20 percent drop from the benchmark index’s April
2010 peak, as concerns mounted that the loss of the U.S.’s AAA
credit rating may worsen a global slowdown. Asian stocks also
sank, extending a two-week rout that has erased $7.8 trillion in
global equity values.  Potential Bidders  Macarthur, the world’s biggest maker of pulverized coal,
said on Aug. 2 it’s in talks with other potential bidders.  Credit Suisse Group AG last month raised its price
forecasts for coking coal by an average of 15 percent for 2014-
2018, citing “unrelenting” demand. Prices jumped 47 percent to
a record $330 a metric ton in the second quarter.  “The current market condition is primarily driven by the
developed world economies, whereas the predominant demand growth
for thermal and metallurgical coals is being driven from  Asia ,”
Pedler said. “ North America  and  Europe  stopped being a source
of raw materials demand growth about 10 to 15 years ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  