-- 
AIG-Bank of America, Fifth Third, Truck Emissions: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-08-09T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/aig-bank-of-america-fifth-third-truck-emissions-compliance.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the bailed-out insurer, sued Bank of America Corp. over $10
billion in losses on mortgage-bond investments.  AIG bought more than $28 billion in residential mortgage-
backed securities from Bank of America and the businesses it
took over -- Countrywide Financial Corp. and Merrill Lynch & Co.
-- which were marred by a “massive fraud” according to the
insurer’s complaint filed in  New York  state court yesterday.  Bank of America and the other defendants created mortgage
securities backed by shoddy loans and sold the investments based
on inflated credit ratings that masked their true risk, AIG said
in the complaint. Offering materials “grossly understated” the
risks of loans tied to the securities the insurer purchased, the
company said.  Mark Herr, a spokesman for New York-based AIG, said in a
statement. “This is not the first lawsuit that AIG has filed
against counterparties that have sought to profit at our
expense, and we anticipate that it will not be the last.”  AIG took U.S. government bailouts starting in 2008 to avert
a collapse after losses tied to subprime home loans and insuring
mortgage bonds. Bank of America, which repaid its government aid
in 2009, has lost more than 38 percent this year in New York
trading through last week as Chief Executive Officer  Brian T.
Moynihan  reached settlements with loan buyers and insurers who
claim the bank’s Countrywide unit created defective mortgages.  Bank of America rejected the insurer’s “assertions and
allegations,” said Larry DiRita, a spokesman for the  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based lender, the biggest in the U.S. by assets.  “AIG recklessly chased high yields and profits throughout
the mortgage and structured finance markets,” said DiRita. “It
is the very definition of an informed, seasoned investor, with
losses solely attributable to its own excesses and errors.”  In addition to the lawsuit against Bank of America, AIG
yesterday also sought to intervene in a separate case in which
the bank hopes to resolve claims from investors in 530 mortgage-
securitization trusts. The deal, which requires court approval,
calls for Bank of America to pay $8.5 billion to resolve claims.  AIG, which owns securities involved in the settlement,
wants more information to determine whether the agreement is
fair, it said in a court filing. The settlement, negotiated with
a group of 22 institutional investors, pays a “fraction” of
the losses estimated by that group, AIG said.  “Both the substance of the agreement and the procedure by
which it was made raise numerous questions as to the
reasonableness of the agreement,” AIG said.  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  last week
called the deal unfair to investors and asked a New York state
judge to reject it.  The case is American International Group Inc. v.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , 652199-2011, New York State Supreme Court
( Manhattan ).  Compliance Action  Fifth Third May Face SEC Civil Claim Over Redemption of Hybrids  U.S. regulators have told  Fifth Third Bancorp. (FITB)  that it may
face enforcement claims over how it handled the redemption of
securities that plunged in value in the two days before the
company’s public disclosure.  The firm,  Ohio ’s largest lender, got a so-called Wells
notice  Aug. 1 from Securities and Exchange Commission lawyers,
who said they plan to recommend the agency bring civil claims
for violating regulations including fair-disclosure rules, Fifth
Third said in a regulatory filing Aug. 5. The warning gives the
bank a chance to dissuade the watchdog from proceeding.  “The Bancorp intends to respond and explain why it
believes that an enforcement action is unwarranted,” the
Cincinnati-based firm wrote in the filing.  The firm offered on May 25 to compensate investors who
bought the hybrid securities in the days before the
announcement, saying in a statement that it regrets “any
inadvertent harm that may have occurred as a result of the
notification process.”  Fund Manager Efrosman Is Extradited From  Poland , U.S. Says  Aleksander Efrosman, accused of cheating investors out of
millions of dollars that he used for his own benefit, including
gambling more than $3 million, was extradited from Poland, the
U.S. said.  Efrosman, 49, who controlled foreign-currency hedge funds
Century Maxim Fund Inc. and AJR Capital Inc., was indicted in
2006. Efrosman defrauded more than 100 investors by telling them
he would invest their money in the stock market and foreign
currency exchange market, according to prosecutors. He falsely
said that he had a history of profitable trading and that he
would use a “stop-loss” mechanism to ensure that no trade
would lose more than 3 percent, according to the government.  He had fled the U.S. with millions of dollars in 2005,
traveling to  Mexico ,  Panama  and then Poland, using the alias
“Mikhail Grosman” and a fraudulent Russian passport, according
to a statement yesterday by U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch in
 Brooklyn .  Efrosman, a U.S. citizen, was living in Krakow and was
extradited to the U.S. on Aug. 5, according to the statement. He
faces mail-fraud, wire-fraud and money-laundering charges, and a
maximum penalty of 20 years in prison.  His lawyer, Michael Schneider, couldn’t immediately be
reached.  The case is U.S. v. Efrosman, 06-cr-95, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  Former Citigroup Trader to Pay $1.49 Million Over Futures Fraud  Otmane El Rhazi, a Former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  trader, was
ordered to pay more than $1.49 million to resolve U.S.
regulatory claims that he used noncompetitive and fictitious
trades to steal money from the bank.  El Rhazi, a Moroccan national who worked for Citigroup
Global Markets in the U.K., made platinum and palladium futures
trades from November 2010 to April that diverted $373,860 to his
own account, the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  said
yesterday in a statement citing a July 29 court order imposing
restitution and a $1.12 million monetary penalty.  “El Rhazi consistently profited his personal account at
the expense of the Citi account,” U.S. District Judge Denise L.
Cote said in the order filed in the Southern District of New
York. El Rhazi was also permanently banned from trading, the
CFTC said, citing the court order.  Mark Costiglio, a Citigroup spokesman, declined to comment.
The order listed no contact information for El Rhazi, and Dennis
Holden, a CFTC spokesman, said the former trader had no defense
attorney of record.  Education Management Violated Student-Aid Rules, U.S. Claims  Education Management Corp. (EDMC) , the second largest U.S. for-
profit college chain, used improper recruitment practices to
secure more than $11 billion in U.S. student aid, prosecutors
said in a civil lawsuit.  Education Management, 41 percent owned by  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  funds, illegally paid recruiters based on the number
of students signed up, a violation of rules for colleges that
get U.S. student grants and loans, the  Justice Department  said
yesterday in a complaint filed in federal court in Pittsburgh.  Prosecutors spelled out their case against the company for
the first time since May, when the  Justice Department  joined an
employee whistle-blower suit. Colleges that receive federal aid
are barred from paying recruiters incentives tied to enrollment
because it may encourage companies to register unqualified
students.  Education Management “fraudulently induced” the Education
Department to make the company eligible for more than $11
billion in federal grants and loans since 2003, according to the
complaint. “Each and every one of the claims it submitted or
caused a student to submit violated” the U.S. False Claims Act,
the government said.  The industry has been under scrutiny by Congress, state
lawmakers and  attorneys general  who are looking into sales
practices and students’ debt loads.  The whistle-blower suit was filed under seal in 2007 by a
former Education Management employee. The Pittsburgh-based
company has denied violating government rules. Jacquelyn Muller,
a spokeswoman for Education Management, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail request yesterday for comment.  State attorneys general in  Illinois ,  Florida ,  California 
and  Indiana  have also intervened in the case, and filed
yesterday’s suit along with the Justice Department.  The case is U.S. v. Education Management, 07-cv-00461, U.S.
District Court, Western District of  Pennsylvania  (Pittsburgh).  Compliance Policy  Obama May Seek to Reduce Truck Emissions 20 Percent, ATA Says  U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s plan to improve fuel economy
for heavy-duty trucks will probably aim to cut carbon-dioxide
emissions by about 20 percent by 2018, said Glen Kedzie, vice
president at the American Trucking Associations.  The standard will probably set a 6 percent engine-
efficiency improvement target, said Kedzie, who is also
environmental counsel at the Arlington, Virginia-based industry
group and has been briefed by the Environmental Protection
Agency and the  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration .
The efficiency goals should help trucks improve fuel use to 7 or
7 1/2 miles per gallon by 2018, he said.  “Over the last 20 to 25 years, we’ve been flatlining at 6
1/2 miles per gallon, and that’s not a good way to go,” Kedzie
said in a telephone interview. “This is going to really help
the industry overall. Everyone will move ahead and move on.
We’ll get used to it.”  Obama is scheduled to announce the first U.S. greenhouse-
gas emissions rules for trucks today in Springfield, Virginia.
The administration said in a preliminary proposal in November
that lower fuel costs would counter the added expense of new
technology. Big rigs may cost $5,901 more, and use between
$9,567 and $9,746 less in  diesel fuel  in the first year,
according to the preliminary rule.  Matt Lehrich, a White House spokesman, didn’t immediately
provide comment.  Industry executives, trade associations and environmental
groups have been briefed by regulators in the weeks leading up
to the announcement.  For more, click here.  Speeches/Interviews  Hochberg Says Ex-Im Bank Won’t Ease Domestic Content Rules  U.S. Export-Import Bank President Fred Hochberg said the
lender won’t ease requirements that 85 percent of any export it
finances be made in the U.S., rebuffing demands from  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and  Boeing Co. (BA)   The two companies have said in congressional testimony that
the domestic content threshold doesn’t take into account the
nature of modern supply networks.  “We will not relax the requirements,” Hochberg said
yesterday in an interview in Panama City.  The lender, backed by the U.S. government, is playing an
expanded role as President Barack Obama seeks to double exports
by 2015. The bank has backed projects valued at more than $24.5
billion this year, eclipsing a 2010 record, and may seek to
increase financing in  South Korea , Colombia and Panama after
Congress passes free-trade agreements, Hochberg said.  Demand for the bank’s support from companies such as GE,
Boeing,  KBR Inc. (KBR)  and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  surged after financial
markets seized up in 2008 and banks tightened borrowing
requirements.  The bank loaned $500 million this year to Panama-based Copa
Airlines, a unit of  Copa Holdings SA (CPA) , for the purchase of Boeing
737 aircraft, Hochberg said yesterday.  The bank is considering loans for infrastructure projects
in Panama, where the government plans to spend more than $10
billion in the next five years to build roads and a subway,
Hochberg said.  Congress must reauthorize the Export-Import Bank before
Sept. 30, when its five-year approval expires. While Hochberg
said he expects Congress to act, the lender can function
temporarily if lawmakers miss the deadline, he said.  “We prefer not to have approval delayed,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 