-- 
Strauss-Kahn, AIG-BofA, UniCredit, Citigroup in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-08-09T12:56:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/aig-bofa-zimmer-sirius-xm-citigroup-harmony-in-court-news.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former
International Monetary Fund chief criminally charged with
sexually assaulting a hotel housekeeper, was sued by the woman
for what her lawyer called “violent and deplorable acts.”  Nafissatou Diallo, who emigrated to the U.S. from Guinea,
filed the complaint yesterday in  New York  State Supreme Court in
the Bronx, where she lived at the time of the incident. The
criminal case against Strauss-Kahn, 62, a onetime French
presidential hopeful, is pending in state court in  Manhattan .  Diallo, who revealed her identity in media interviews last
month, was working at the Sofitel hotel in midtown Manhattan May
14 when she entered Strauss-Kahn’s suite, where the incident
took place. Strauss-Kahn, whose lawyer has said the encounter
wasn’t forcible, was arrested and charged with sexual assault
and attempted rape.  “Believing that he was immune from the laws of this
country, defendant Strauss-Kahn intentionally, brutally and
violently sexually assaulted Ms. Diallo and in the process
humiliated, degraded, violated and robbed Ms. Diallo of her
dignity as a woman,” her lawyers said in the complaint.  The suit seeks unspecified monetary damages for physical
and psychological harm, damage to Diallo’s reputation, career,
and mental anguish, for the assault, battery, intentional
infliction of emotional distress and false imprisonment.
Strauss-Kahn has pleaded not guilty to criminal charges and
denied any wrongdoing.  “Ms. Diallo has filed her lawsuit now because she wants to
vindicate her rights and hold Dominique Strauss-Kahn accountable
for the violent and deplorable acts committed against her,”
defense lawyer Kenneth Thompson said yesterday in an interview.
“We expect that the District Attorney will stand by this
victim, because to abandon her would also be an abandonment of
other women who are going to be raped or sexually assaulted in
the future.”  The Manhattan District Attorney’s office is still
investigating the criminal case. Strauss-Kahn, who remains free
while he awaits trial, is scheduled to return to court Aug. 23.  On July 1, prosecutors told a judge that the criminal case
was hurt by Diallo’s “substantial credibility issues,” which
included lying to a grand jury about her actions immediately
after the alleged attack as well as regarding details of her
life history.  It’s unusual for such a civil suit to be filed before the
criminal case has been resolved, said New York attorney Paul
Callan, who isn’t involved in the case.  “Thompson is fearful the criminal case is going to be
dropped so he’s throwing out the rule book,” said Callan, who
represented the estate of Nicole Brown Simpson in a lawsuit
against former professional football player O.J. Simpson.  Erin Duggan, a spokeswoman for Manhattan District Attorney
Cyrus Vance Jr., declined to comment on the lawsuit. She said
the criminal case was “continuing.”  It is easier to prove a civil case than a criminal case.
The “preponderance of the evidence” is all that is necessary
in a civil case, whereas criminal jurors must be convinced
“beyond a reasonable doubt.”  “If there’s a little more evidence on the side of one
party than the other, that party wins,” Callan said.  “We have maintained from the beginning that the motivation
of Mr. Thompson and his client was to make ‎money,” Strauss-
Kahn’s criminal defense attorneys,  Benjamin Brafman  and William
Taylor, said in an e-mailed statement. “The filing of this
lawsuit ends any doubt on that question. The civil suit has no
merit and Mr. ‎Strauss-Kahn will defend it vigorously.‎”  The civil case is Diallo v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-307065, New
York State Supreme Court (Bronx County); The criminal case is
People v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-02526, New York State Supreme Court
(New York County).  For more, click here.  AIG Sues Bank of America Over $10 Billion in Mortgage Losses  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the bailed-out insurer,
sued Bank of America Corp. over $10 billion in losses on
mortgage-bond investments. The bank dropped 16.5 percent in New
York trading.  AIG bought more than $28 billion in residential mortgage-
backed securities marred by a “massive fraud” conducted by
Bank of America and businesses it took over -- Countrywide
Financial Corp. and Merrill Lynch & Co., the insurer said in a
complaint filed yesterday in New York State Supreme Court.  “Bank of America’s fraud caused billions of dollars in
damage to AIG and we are bringing this suit today to protect AIG
and the taxpayers’ stake in it,” Mark Herr, a spokesman for New
York-based AIG, said in a statement. “This is not the first
lawsuit that AIG has filed against counterparties that have
sought to profit at our expense, and we anticipate that it will
not be the last.”  The bank rejects the insurer’s “assertions and
allegations,” said Larry DiRita, a spokesman for the Charlotte,
North Carolina-based lender, the biggest in the U.S. by assets.  “AIG recklessly chased high yields and profits throughout
the mortgage and structured finance markets,” said DiRita. “It
is the very definition of an informed, seasoned investor, with
losses solely attributable to its own excesses and errors.”  The case is American International Group Inc. v.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , 652199-2011, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Yahoo Investors Sue Over Alibaba Payment Restructuring  Yahoo! Inc. shareholders, claiming they were misled about
the restructuring of the online payment business of  China ’s
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., sued the owner of the biggest U.S.
Web portal.  The investors, in a complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in San Francisco, claim the search-engine provider failed
to tell them before May 10 that its $1 billion investment in
Alibaba was “severely impaired” by the transfer of the payment
business, Alipay, to a closely held company controlled by
Alibaba Chairman Jack Ma.  Yahoo management was informed no later than March 31 about
the restructuring, which reduced the value of the Sunnyvale,
California-based company’s investment in Alibaba by billions of
dollars, according to the complaint.  Chinese regulations that precipitated the restructuring
were anticipated in 2009, requiring “Yahoo or Alibaba to divest
themselves of Alipay but Yahoo had failed to develop a strategy
to recover the value it had in Alibaba,” according to the suit.  Alibaba, based in Hangzhou in eastern China, said July 29
that its two biggest shareholders, Yahoo and  Softbank Corp. (9984) ,
 Japan ’s third-biggest mobile carrier, agreed to a compensation
deal that may result in Alibaba receiving as much as $6 billion
from Alipay. The agreement ended a four-month dispute between
Alibaba, China’s biggest e-commerce company, and foreign
shareholders over the spinoff of Alipay.  The sale of the online payment business to Ma’s company
last year lacked the approval of the board and was only
disclosed to investors in March, Yahoo said previously.  The lawsuit was filed on behalf of the Twin City Pipe
Trades Service Association based in Saint Paul,  Minnesota .  Dana Lengkeek, a Yahoo spokeswoman, had no immediate
comment yesterday.  The case is Twin City Pipe Trades Pension v. Yahoo! Inc.,
11-03870, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California 
(San Francisco).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Madoff Trustee Can’t Pursue UniCredit Bank Austria AG Claims  Irving Picard , the trustee for Bernard Madoff’s former
firm, doesn’t have standing to pursue common-law claims against
UniCredit Bank Austria AG, a unit of  UniCredit Spa (UCG) , Italy’s
biggest bank, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in New York on Aug. 6 added
UniCredit Bank Austria to a July 28 opinion barring Picard from
pursuing some claims in his lawsuit against the UniCredit parent
company as well as London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   The July 28 order was amended, Rakoff wrote, to “include a
dismissal of the trustee’s common law claims against Bank
Austria.”  Picard in December filed a revised complaint in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  against HSBC, accusing it of aiding Madoff’s
fraud. The complaint seeks to recover $2 billion in transfers
out of Madoff’s business. It also asserted common-law claims
seeking at least $6.6 billion from HSBC and about $2 billion
from a group of 36 other defendants, including Milan-based
UniCredit, according to Rakoff’s ruling.  Rakoff took the case out of bankruptcy court and considered
whether Picard could bring common-law claims, such as aiding and
abetting Madoff’s fraud. The judge said July 28 that all the
common-law claims must be dismissed, with the remainder of the
case returned to the bankruptcy court.  Picard didn’t immediately return a phone message seeking
comment yesterday after regular business hours.  The case is Picard v. HSBC Bank Plc, 11-cv-0763, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Donald Rumsfeld  Must Face Torture Suit by Men Held in Iraq  Former U.S. secretary of defense Donald Rumsfeld must face
a lawsuit filed against him by two American men claiming they
were wrongfully held and tortured by U.S. forces in Iraq.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Chicago  yesterday upheld a
lower court ruling last year allowing the men, Donald Vance and
Nathan Ertel, to pursue claims that Rumsfeld should be found
personally liable for their treatment.  Ertel and Vance, in a 2006 federal lawsuit, claimed they
were taken into custody, then held at the U.S. Army’s Camp
Cropper while working for Iraqi-owned Shield Group Security
after reporting to the U.S. what they believed was illegal
activity by their employer and American personnel.  “We conclude that plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged
that Secretary Rumsfeld acted deliberately in authorizing
interrogation techniques that amount to torture,” U.S. Circuit
Judge David Hamilton wrote for the three-judge panel.  Whether Vance and Ertel can actually prove that assertion
“remains to be seen,” the court said.  David B. Rivkin, a lawyer for the former defense secretary,
criticized the court ruling in a statement issued by Rumsfeld’s
office in  Washington . He said it endangers U.S. soldiers.  “Today’s decision by the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals
is a blow to the U.S. military,” Rivkin, a partner in
Cleveland-based Baker Hostetler LLP, said yesterday. “This
decision is troubling, particularly for the uniformed personnel
throughout the entire chain of command who are defendants in
this lawsuit. Having judges second-guess the decisions made by
the armed forces halfway around the world is no way to wage a
war.”  Charles Miller, a spokesman for the U.S. Justice
Department, said by phone he couldn’t immediately comment on the
court’s  decision . The department is representing Rumsfeld and
the U.S. in the case.  The defense was appealing a ruling last year by U.S.
District Judge Wayne Andersen in Chicago. Rumsfeld resigned his
position in the Cabinet of President George W. Bush in December
2006.  “They had an important decision to make involving the
constitutional rights of citizens in the difficult context of a
wartime, which is when constitutional rights get strained,”
attorney Michael Kanovitz, who represents Vance and Ertel, said
by phone yesterday. “It made the correct choice to protect
those rights.”  The lower case is Vance v. Rumsfeld, 06-cv-06964, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago). The
appellate case is Vance v. Rumsfeld, 10-1687 and 10-2442, 7th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Chicago).  For more, click here.  Artificial-Knee Suits Targeting Zimmer Now Haunt Lawyers  Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH) , facing 78 product-liability lawsuits
over its NexGen Flex artificial knees, has a rare strategy to
defend the product: target lawyers representing the patients.  Attorney Brett Emison, who wrote a  blog post  about failures
in NexGen knees, got a letter from Zimmer lawyers accusing him
of “alarmist fear mongering” and demanding he stop.  “It’s a blatant attempt to try to frighten plaintiffs’
lawyers from pursuing these cases,” said Emison of Lexington,
Kentucky-based Langdon & Emison.  He’s not alone in drawing the legal wrath of the world’s
biggest maker of replacement knees and hips. The Warsaw,
Indiana-based company has sued seven law firms this year and
sent warning letters to at least three more, saying their ads
and Internet postings distorted the safety record of its $1.8
billion-a-year knee business.  The pre-emptive strikes, begun in January, are an unusually
aggressive move, even in an orthopedics industry that’s become
rife with litigation, said law professor David Logan.  Zimmer is firing “a shot across the bow to these
plaintiffs’ firms,” said Logan, dean at  Roger Williams
University ’s law school in Bristol, Rhode Island, in a telephone
interview. “It’s like putting a loaded gun on the table for
negotiations. You’re saying, ‘Not only are we not going to give
you money, we’re going to go after you as well.’”  The 84-year-old company is merely trying to correct the
record about the 3 million NexGen knees implanted worldwide
since 1994, said  Garry Clark , a Zimmer spokesman. In contrast to
the lawyers’ claims, joint-replacement databases in the U.K.,
Sweden and  Australia  show the products have among the industry’s
 lowest failure rates , he said by e-mail. (U.S. implant
registries, started this year, haven’t released data yet.)  For more, click here.  Fund Manager Efrosman Is Extradited From  Poland , U.S. Says  Aleksander Efrosman, accused of cheating investors out of
millions of dollars that he used for his own benefit, including
gambling more than $3 million, was extradited from Poland, the
U.S. said.  Efrosman, 49, who controlled foreign-currency hedge funds
Century Maxim Fund Inc. and AJR Capital Inc., was indicted in
2006. He had fled the U.S. with millions of dollars in 2005,
traveling to Mexico, Panama and then Poland, using the alias
“Mikhail Grosman” and a fraudulent Russian passport, according
to a statement yesterday by U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch in
 Brooklyn .  “This defendant allegedly created a web of lies to fleece
unsuspecting investors,” Lynch said in the statement. “He will
now be held to account for the charged crimes.”  Efrosman, a U.S. citizen, was living in Krakow and was
extradited to the U.S. on Aug. 5, according to the statement. He
faces mail-fraud, wire-fraud and money-laundering charges, and a
maximum penalty of 20 years in prison. He was arrested in Poland
on May 28.  He is accused of stealing money from clients who gave him
$5 million in 2004 and 2005. He gambled more than $3 million at
the Foxwoods Resort Casino in Mashantucket, Connecticut,
prosecutors said.  His lawyer, Michael Schneider, couldn’t immediately be
reached.  Efrosman, formerly of Staten Island, New York, was
arraigned Aug. 6 in federal court in Brooklyn, and ordered
detained, according to the statement. He is scheduled to appear
before U.S. District Judge Nicholas G. Garaufis on Aug. 10.  The case is U.S. v. Efrosman, 06-cr-95, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest trial
and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Browns’ Lerner Wins Court for Return of Hedge Fund Investment  Billionaire  Randy Lerner , owner of the National Football
League’s  Cleveland Browns , won a court order for the return of
the remainder of his $40 million investment in a hedge fund that
had refused to say where the money was invested.  Officials of  Paige Capital Management LLC , created in 2006
to buy companies that faltered during the U.S.’s economic
decline, improperly refused to return Lerner’s funds and
retained them for the “selfish reason” of generating
management fees, Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine
concluded yesterday.  “I order a remedy requiring the immediate return” of all
Lerner’s capital invested in the fund along with interest tied
to the delay in handing over the funds, Strine said in 100-page
ruling. The fund is run by Michele Paige, a former investment
manager for billionaire Carl Icahn, along with her husband,
Christopher Paige.  William Dolan, one of the Paiges’ lawyers, didn’t
immediately return a phone call for comment yesterday on
Strine’s decision.  Lerner, former chairman of financial services company MBNA
Corp. who also owns the  English Premier League  soccer club Aston
Villa, rebuffed a March offer by the Paiges to settle the case
for about $3 million, according to court filings.  The Paiges sued Lerner’s investment fund last year arguing
the billionaire was violating so-called “gate provisions” in
his investment contract. The Paiges said the agreement barred
Lerner from withdrawing his money because it amounted to more
than 20 percent of the fund’s assets under management, according
to court filings.  The fund returned about $8 million to Lerner in November
2010 under the terms of its agreement with the billionaire,
according to court filings.  Lerner countered he was the only outside investor in the
Paiges’ funds and properly requested his entire investment be
returned after a three-year “lock-up period” expired in March
2010, court filings show.  The case is Paige Capital Management LLC v. Lerner Master
Fund, 5502-VCS, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Sirius XM Subscriber Hearing Ends Without Decision on Accord  A federal judge declined to rule from the bench on the
settlement of a lawsuit by  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)  subscribers who
claimed the satellite radio broadcaster broke the law when it
raised prices after merging with its only rival.  U.S. Judge Harold Baer in Manhattan reserved a decision on
the accord after subscribers argued at a hearing yesterday that
the agreement gives them too little and the lawyers too much.  Subscriber Carl Blessing of Florida sued Sirius XM in 2009,
claiming it violated federal antitrust and state consumer-
protection laws when it raised prices and levied a music royalty
fee after Sirius Satellite Radio and XM Satellite Radio
completed their merger in 2008. Blessing said in his complaint
his monthly rate jumped 40 percent to $27.88 after the merger.  “I rely on satellite radio every day for weather and
news,” Marguerite Willis, a subscriber from South Carolina who
commutes 180 miles a day for work, told the judge. “I have no
alternative. Combining Sirius and XM created a firm with
monopoly power in rural South Carolina.”  The subscribers said New York-based Sirius XM broke
promises it made to win approval of the merger from the U.S.
Federal Communications Commission and Justice Department. Sirius
XM said the increases were imposed to cover higher costs.  Baer in March let the federal antitrust claim proceed as a
class-action, or group, lawsuit, on behalf of Sirius XM
subscribers. He denied class-action status on the state-law
claims.  The class and Sirius XM reached a pretrial settlement, and
Baer gave preliminary approval to the agreement in May.  The accord, valued at $180 million, provides that prices
for basic service and Internet access, as well as the music
royalty fee, will remain at current levels through the end of
the year. Subscribers who canceled can reconnect without paying
a fee. Those whose plans expire after Dec. 31 can renew before
that time at current rates. Subscribers will get no cash.  “The expectation was that the price would increase $2 a
month” after a cap imposed by the FCC expired in July, Joseph
Sabella, a lawyer representing the class, told the judge. He
said there were 67 objections to the settlement out of 15
million class members.  Objectors argued that Sirius XM hadn’t ever said it would
definitely raise prices before year-end. Some objected to
language in the accord that would release Sirius from further
claims. They also objected to the $13 million Sirius would pay
for fees and expenses to the lawyers representing the class.  “The settlement is appropriately scaled to the scope of
the case,” John Marjoras, a lawyer representing Sirius, told
the judge yesterday. “There were hard-fought negotiations. We
fully expected to go to trial.”  The case is Blessing v. Sirius XM Radio, 1:09-cv-10035,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Former Citigroup Trader to Pay $1.49 Million Over Fraud  Former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  trader Otmane El Rhazi was ordered to
pay more than $1.49 million to resolve U.S. regulatory claims
that he used noncompetitive and fictitious trades to steal money
from the bank.  El Rhazi, a Moroccan national who worked for Citigroup
Global Markets in the U.K., made platinum and palladium futures
trades from November 2010 to April that diverted $373,860 to his
own account, the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  said
yesterday in a statement citing a July 29 court order imposing
restitution and a $1.12 million monetary penalty.  “El Rhazi consistently profited his personal account at
the expense of the Citi account,” U.S. District Judge Denise L.
Cote said in the order filed in the Southern District of New
York. El Rhazi was also permanently banned from trading, the
CFTC said, citing the court order.  Mark Costiglio, a Citigroup spokesman, declined to comment.
The order listed no contact information for El Rhazi, and Dennis
Holden, a  CFTC spokesman, said the former trader had no defense
attorney of record.  Harmony Gold Settles Claim With Lead Plaintiff Over Profit  Harmony Gold Mining Co., Africa’s third-biggest producer of
the metal, said it settled with the lead plaintiff of a group
that claimed the company overstated earnings in 2007.  The settlement is a “reasonable amount with which we’re
comfortable,” Marian van der Walt, a spokeswoman for
Johannesburg-based Harmony, said yesterday by mobile phone,
declining to disclose the details.  Harmony hasn’t admitted any liability in connection with
the proposed settlement of the class action, filed in the U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York in May
2008, it said in a statement. The court will hold a hearing on
Nov. 10 to rule on whether the agreement will be approved.  “A mediated settlement process was followed to avoid
protracted and expensive litigation,” Harmony’s Chief Executive
Officer Graham Briggs said in yesterday’s statement.  Former Chief Executive Officer Bernard Swanepoel and
Financial Director Nomfundo Qangule resigned in 2008 after the
company said it overlooked about 250 million rand ($35 million)
of costs.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  K&L Gates Sues Former  Hong Kong  Partner Charged With Theft  K&L Gates LLP, a Pittsburgh-based law firm with 2,000
lawyers worldwide, sued a former partner in Hong Kong after he
was charged with theft and forgery in the process of
transferring funds to a Macau casino company.  The law firm “will pursue and support any and all measures
- administrative, civil and criminal - against any wrong-doer to
rectify any harm that has been done,” it said in an e-mailed
statement.  The former partner Navin Kumar Aggarwal is in custody after
police charged him June 24 with three counts of theft and three
counts of forgery. He resigned when confronted with the
allegations in mid-June, K&L Gates said. The firm, which itself
has been sued for at least HK$250.4 million ($32 million), sued
Aggarwal for breach of trust and asked Hong Kong’s High Court to
freeze his assets.  Aggarwal, 44, is scheduled to appear in court on Aug. 22 to
face the charges related to stealing HK$16.6 million from the
accounts of RIM China Co. held with K&L Gates and transferring
the funds to Wynn International Marketing Ltd. last year. His
lawyer, Gloria Chan, declined to comment when reached by
telephone.  K&L Gates said it “immediately” began collaborating with
Hong Kong authorities when it learned of the matter, and has
hired independent counsel and forensic accountants for an
investigation supervised by its Asia Managing Partner David
Tang.  Valerie Cheung, a spokeswoman for  The Law Society of Hong
Kong , said it has imposed conditions on Aggarwal’s law license.
She declined to elaborate citing ongoing court proceedings.  The civil cases are K&L Gates v. Navin Kumar Aggarwal
HCA1061/2011, Hind International Investment Ltd. v. K&L Gates
HCA1352/2011, Smartworld International Ltd. v. Navin Kumar
Aggarwal & Ors, HCA1136/2011, Penguin Assets Ltd. v. K&L Gates
HCA1142/2011, Emperor Securities Ltd. v. Navin Kumar Aggarwal &
Ors HCA1167/2011, Lam Shu Chung v. Navin Kumar Aggarwal & Ors
HCA1244/2011 and Wang Qiang v. Navin Kumar Aggarwal & Ors
HCA1048/2011. The criminal case is HKSAR v. Navin Kumar Aggarwal
ESC2673/2011.  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  