-- 
Maine Quashes Wall Street Negotiated Debt Deals Declaring No Free Lunches

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-08-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/maine-quashes-wall-street-negotiated-deals.html
“I don’t eat at Wendy’s,” Robert
Lenna, the  Maine  Municipal Bond Bank’s executive director, said
when asked why he and three other officials had dinners costing
almost $4,000 with Wall Street bankers selling the state’s debt.  Lenna’s declaration, made at an April 8 public meeting, has
laid bare a fight over whether Maine, where 12.6 percent of
residents live below the poverty line, should try to save
taxpayers’ money by holding open bond auctions in place of the
privately negotiated debt sales it has relied on for decades.  Maine Treasurer Bruce Poliquin, who was endorsed for the
post last year by Tea Party-backed Governor Paul LePage, leaves
no doubt that the way the state borrows money for public works
must change.  “I do not buy the argument that there is a free lunch,”
Poliquin, who criticized Lenna at the April bond bank meeting,
said in a telephone interview. “All of these expenses that are
included in the price of the deal are paid for by the small
towns in Maine through sewer fees or the water fees or local
taxes whenever we borrow money for them.”  Just as Tea Party-backed officials upset  Washington 
politics, their movement for fiscal restraint has sparked
battles in statehouses across the country. In Maine, where
Republicans took control of the governor’s office and
Legislature in 2010 for the first time in more than 40 years,
the new treasurer is also reviving a decades-old debate in the
$2.9 trillion municipal market over the way bonds are sold.  80 Percent Private  Until the 1970s, almost all states and municipalities sold
bonds competitively, inviting sealed bids from bankers. Today,
more than 80 percent of U.S. municipal-debt is issued through
negotiated deals with one or more banks, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. These private arrangements have led to
deals such as Jefferson County,  Alabama ’s failed sewer-debt
refinancing that cost taxpayers and investors billions of
dollars and may prompt the county to declare bankruptcy this
week.  In competitive sales, or auctions, banks offer issuers the
lowest  interest rate  they can to win the business. In negotiated
deals, a chosen banker agrees on fees and rates before the sale.
The underwriter buys the debt and markets it to investors.  Banks promote negotiated sales as letting them offer the
lowest cost by tailoring the debt to specific types of
investors. Yet  academic studies  of the municipal market show
such sales often raise costs by as much as $4.80 on every $1,000
borrowed, according to Mark D. Robbins and Bill Simonsen of the
University of  Connecticut  in  West Hartford .  ‘Well-Structured Deal’  “The only way the public can be assured of the lowest bid
for a well-structured deal is a competitive bid,” said Robert Fuller, a former  Standard & Poor’s  managing director in public
finance who runs Capital Markets Management LLC, a municipal
adviser in Hopewell,  New Jersey .  “What can look like a good deal to you can be a much
better deal for the other side,” he said.  The dispute over Maine’s habit of raising money in private
broke into the open after Lenna, 66, led three state officials
to  New York  in October to close an $80.2 million Bond Bank deal
to finance local projects, including schools.  The group on Oct. 26 had dinner with bankers from  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , which was hired to underwrite the securities, at Il
Tinello, at a cost of $1,185, according to state records. The
midtown Manhattan restaurant’s homemade pasta dishes include a
$22 plate named for former television talk-show host Regis Philbin, a regular patron, and another for billionaire investor
 Carl Icahn .  $49 Steak  Meetings followed at Cello Wine Bar, where the tab came to
$66, and for a closing dinner at Smith & Wollensky, at $2,589,
with a group that included lawyers and bankers from other firms
involved, Lenna said. The steakhouse in midtown Manhattan
charges as much as $49 for a filet mignon dish. A later
gathering at Redemption Bar & Grill cost $113, the records show.  The four meals cost almost $4,000, an expense that was
covered by the underwriters. The bond bank spent $5,872 for the
three-day trip, including $4,630 for hotels.  “I think it’s excessive,” said Cherie Sargent, finance
director in  Poland , one of 29 communities that got money through
the bond bank deal, borrowing $4.5 million for water and sewer
projects. The town’s share accounted for $27,700 of the
underwriter’s fee of $6.16 for each $1,000 in debt sold.  Looking for Savings  “Especially in the economy we’re in right now, everybody
should be looking at ways to save money and that doesn’t seem to
be the case with that trip,” said Sargent, whose town of about
5,000 residents north of  Portland  is known as a source of Poland
Springs bottled water.  Whether they sold bonds competitively or through negotiated
deals, municipal officials used to travel to  Wall Street  to
complete transactions until overnight mail services, facsimile
machines and eventually the Internet made such trips
unnecessary. Closing dinners remain part of some negotiated
deals because public officials often go to New York when
underwriters price their bonds.  Dealers are prohibited from “paying for excessive or
lavish travel, meal, lodging and entertainment expenses in
connection with an offering,” such as trips to meet rating
companies and bond closing dinners, according to a 2007  ruling 
from the industry-funded Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board,
a regulatory organization based in Washington.  Many Deals  Poliquin, 57, began pressing for competitive sales as a way
to cut costs after being elected treasurer by the Republican-
controlled Legislature. A real estate developer who  returned  to
Maine in 1996 after leaving  Avatar Associates , the New York-
based  money manager  co-founded by Martin Zweig, Poliquin
oversees the state’s general-purpose bond sales and sits on the
boards of four independent state authorities that have been run
by Lenna since 1988.  In April, the bond bank held a special meeting on how it
sells debt. Poliquin wanted the board to hire a financial
adviser to help determine when to offer securities through
competitive bid. At the meeting he detailed the costs from the
negotiated sale in October, asking Lenna why he didn’t close the
deal on a conference call from his office in Augusta, Maine’s
capital, and get food at a nearby Wendy’s Co. restaurant.  “It is very easy to suggest that somehow or other, because
somebody goes out to dinner, or does a closing in New York, that
there are savings to be made,” Lenna said July 11 by telephone.
“It has no impact on the cost of our bonds. It doesn’t affect
the interest rate. It doesn’t affect the cost of issuance.
Closing dinners are paid for by the bankers, not the issuer.”  Multiple Borrowers  Lenna said he typically goes to New York to close bond
deals when the financing is for a number of local borrowers such
as in October. It is easier, he said, to assemble all of the
legal documents required from the communities for the securities
at the offices of the bond bank’s law firm in New York, Hawkins
Delafield & Wood LLP. The closing dinners also offer an
opportunity for “team building,” he said.  The bank’s board voted 3-2 against hiring a financial
adviser. The opponents included the two members who went to New
York for the October closing, Chairman Stephen R. Crockett and
Cathryn M. Robinson. In a meeting last month, the board
unanimously approved a step to hire an adviser, Lenna said.  Maine for decades sold almost all of its bonds through
negotiated deals, according to Poliquin. Former treasurer Samuel Shapiro, a Democrat who held  office  from 1981 to 1996, worked
almost exclusively with  Paine Webber  Group Inc. and the firm’s
New York-based banker Andrew Gurley.  UBS AG (UBSN)  of Zurich bought
Paine Webber in 2000 and remained in control of much of Maine’s
bond sales until it closed the underwriting unit in 2008.  Pricing Differences  “Back then everything was different in terms of pricing,”
said Shapiro, who after leaving the treasurer’s post became a
consultant to a UBS asset management unit that invests public
money. “As long as he had the turnpike and the bond bank and
the housing authority and the state he was willing to cut his
price and make very little profit on each because the total
profit would have been the same if he had just one account,” he
said regarding Gurley.  Gurley, who is now retired from UBS, declined to comment on
the debt sales when reached by telephone.  While most states have laws requiring competitive bidding
for government projects such as new construction, the rules for
debt offerings are varied. Some such as New Jersey imposed
requirements for the transactions following political scandals.  New Jersey Sales  Former Democratic Governor Jim Florio in 1993 ordered all
state bonds to be sold through auctions after an aide became the
subject of a federal investigation because he co-owned an
underwriter working on a financing with the New Jersey State
Turnpike Authority. Florio’s Republican successor, Christie Todd Whitman, altered the order, granting waivers to permit
negotiated sales.  Lenna’s argument for negotiated deals failed to persuade
Poliquin. Later in April, the treasurer asked the Maine Health
and Higher Educational Facilities Authority’s board to hire an
outside adviser. The proposal passed 9-0. That means the next
nonprofit hospital or college bond sale by the authority, which
is run by Lenna, may be done by auction.  Poliquin, who sought the Republican nomination for governor
last year, losing to LePage, didn’t stop there. In May he got
lawmakers to introduce a bill to require competitive bond sales
by state agencies. The measure failed in committee.  Closing by Mail  In June, the treasurer sat in his Augusta offices watching
the results of electronic bids from Wall Street for about $108
million of the state’s general-obligation bonds while talking
with Public Financial Management Inc., his Philadelphia-based
financial adviser, on a conference call. The sale was closed
through the mail. There was no dinner to mark the event nor even
takeout from Wendy’s.  Craig Hrinkevich, a Wells Fargo banker in New York who led
the team marketing the bond bank’s securities, sent an e-mail to
Poliquin on May 19 before the general-obligation debt auction,
offering to buy all the securities at a cost of $4.29 per $1,000
of face value, “subject to negotiation and expenses,”
according to a copy of the note.  Hrinkevich wouldn’t discuss Maine’s bond offerings. He said
market statistics don’t make clear that competitive sales
provide the lowest cost to issuers.  “If you look at the percentages, most are negotiated
sales,” Hrinkevich said about U.S. municipal bond deals in a
telephone interview. “That’s not the bank’s preference. That’s
the client’s preference.”  Hrinkevich said his company is a leader in handling both
types of offerings.  Maine will pay an annual average interest rate of 1.9
percent on the bonds it sold competitively, less than the 2.1
percent it would have paid in a negotiated offering, according
to the treasurer’s office. By rejecting the offer from Wells
Fargo, it saved $1.65 million in interest over 10 years,
Poliquin said.  “This is Maine,” he said. “That is a lot of money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  