-- 
AirAsia’s Fernandes Forges Malaysian Airline Alliance With Share Swap

-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 
2011-08-09T11:52:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/airasia-s-fernandes-forges-malaysian-airline-alliance-with-share-swap.html
AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  Chief Executive Officer
 Tony Fernandes  agreed to swap a stake in  Asia ’s biggest low-cost
airline for shares in  Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS) , forging
ties between the nation’s two largest carriers.  Tune Air Sdn., owned by Fernandes and partners, will
exchange 10 percent of AirAsia for 20.5 percent of Malaysian Air
with government-controlled Khazanah Nasional Bhd., according to
a statement handed to reporters in Kuala Lumpur today. Both
stakes are worth about $360 million, based on Bloomberg data.  Fernandes and deputy Kamarudin Meranun will also join the
board of Malaysian Air, putting them in position to help the
carrier compete with  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  on long-haul routes.
The deal may benefit AirAsia through joint-purchasing agreements,
reduced competition and ties to a state-backed investor.  “What he gets is actually having Khazanah be a
shareholder,” said Nik Hazim Nik Mohamed, who helps manage 2.6
billion ringgit ($860 million) at Kenanga Investors Bhd. in
 Kuala Lumpur . “Negotiations between AirAsia and Malaysian Air
will be easier when they have a common shareholder.”  Malaysian Air’s Managing Director Tengku Azmil Zahruddin
also left the company with immediate effect to join Khazanah as
executive director for investments, according to a separate
statement. Chairman Md Nor Md Yusof and an executive committee
will run the airline until a replacement is named, it said. The
company has candidates in mind, Md Nor said at the press
briefing, without elaboration.  Airline Cooperation  AirAsia and Malaysian Air will look to work together in
areas including cargo, plane-purchasing and opening new routes,
according to the statement. Malaysian Air will also convert its
low-cost unit FireFly into a full-service airline to avoid
direct completion, Md Nor said. Neither airline will cut
services, Fernandes said.  The two airlines could generate combined benefits of more
than 1 billion ringgit a year through cooperation, Maybank
Investment Bank Bhd. analyst Wong Chew Hann wrote in a report
ahead of the announcement.  AirAsia and Malaysian Air will also issue free warrants to
each other shareholders under the accord. Malaysian Air
investors will get about one AirAsia warrant for every 30 shares
held, according to the statement. AirAsia shareholders will get
a Malaysian Air warrant for every 10 shares owned. The statement
didn’t say what prices that the warrants could be used at.  Shares of the two airlines will resume trading tomorrow in
Kuala Lumpur after being suspended ahead of the deal. AirAsia
closed at 3.95 ringgit on Aug. 5, giving it a market value of
$3.6 billion. It’s doubled in a year. Malaysian Air closed at
1.60 ringgit, after dropping 25 percent in a year. It’s worth
about $1.8 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  The transaction will be based on the Aug. 5 closing price
Nazir Razak, chief executive officer of CIMB Group Holdings Bhd.,
which helped arrange the deal, said at the press conference.  Khanazah Stake  Khanazah will remain the largest shareholder in Malaysian
Air with a 49 percent holding. It may also buy a 10 percent
stake in AirAsia’s long-haul affiliate AirAsia X, according to
the statement.  The state-controlled company also has stakes in other
Malaysian businesses including carmaker  Proton Holdings Bhd. (PROH) ,
CIMB Group and telecommunications provider Axiata Group Bhd.  AirAsia surpassed Malaysian Air in market value last year
as Fernandes expanded low-cost operations across the region. In
June, the carrier ordered 200 Airbus SAS A320neo airplanes. That
raised its total orders for A320 aircraft to 375, including 89
that had already been delivered, the planemaker said at the time.  The airline doubled profit last year as higher ticket sales
and income from related services helped offset higher fuel
prices. Malaysian Air’s net income declined 55 percent as
hedging gains declined.  AirAsia flies to more than 20 countries, according to its
website. It has ventures in Thailand and  Indonesia , and it’s
setting up operations in the  Philippines ,  Vietnam  and  Japan .
Malaysian Air flies to more than 100 destinations worldwide,
according to its  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow in  Hong Kong  at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  