-- 
Malaysian Air Surges Most in a Year, AirAsia Tumbles on Share-Swap Deal

-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 
2011-08-10T10:01:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/airasia-s-fernandes-gets-malaysian-air-stake-after-surpassing-flag-carrier.html
Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS)  rose
the most in more than a year in Kuala Lumpur trading and  AirAsia
Bhd. (AIRA)  tumbled after investors in the country’s two biggest
carriers agreed to a share swap.  Malaysian Air rose 7.5 percent, the most since May 2010, to
1.72 ringgit at the 5 p.m. local time close, after AirAsia Chief
Executive Officer  Tony Fernandes  and partners agreed to take a
20.5 percent stake. In return, they will give Malaysian Air’s
state-controlled parent Khazanah Nasional Bhd. 10 percent of the
budget airline. The two carriers will look to cooperate in areas
including plane purchasing and opening new routes.  “Teaming up with AirAsia is a good thing” for Malaysian
Air, said Scott Lim, who manages the equivalent of $470 million
as chief executive officer of Kuala Lumpur-based MIDF Amanah
Asset Management Bhd. “It has a lot more mileage to go in terms
of its revival.”  Sepang-based AirAsia declined 10 percent, its biggest drop
since October 2008, to 3.54 ringgit. The deal may detract from
the “hip upstart” image that has helped AirAsia win
passengers, said UOB-Kay Hian Research Pte., which downgraded
the budget airline to “sell.”  “We fail to see how an alliance would benefit AirAsia,”
the brokerage said in a note. “There could be some risk of
brand dilution.”  ‘Tremendous’ Opportunity  There is a “tremendous” opportunity for AirAsia to grow
quickly after forming the alliance, Fernandes told Bloomberg
Television in  Kuala Lumpur  today. “It removes a lot of
regulatory hurdles.”  The share exchange meant that Khazanah, a government-owned
investment agency, is now a common shareholder in both airlines
as well as Malaysian Airports Holdings Bhd., the country’s
airports operator.  “Routes rights was always an issue,” Fernandes said.  Malaysian Air and AirAsia will continue to expand and
neither will cut services, Fernandes told reporters yesterday.
The deal will aid AirAsia by allowing it to focus on developing
new markets rather than on competition at home, he said.  “There’s a real possibility for Malaysian Air to order
more aircraft with this announcement,” Fernandes said.
“Whatever the markets are there’s a tremendous appetite for
travel.”  Singapore Airlines  AirAsia is “very much” interested in taking up options
for a further 100 Airbus SAS planes in addition to the 200
A320neo aircraft it ordered in June, the CEO said. This is
subject to board approval, he added.  Fernandes and deputy Kamarudin Meranun, who will both join
Malaysian Air’s board, face the challenge of helping the flag
carrier compete with Singapore Airlines Ltd. for premium
passengers as global economic concerns threaten to sap business
travel. Malaysian Air will concentrate on long-haul and full-
service operations, while ceding the low-cost market to AirAsia,
according to a statement.  AirAsia flew 25.7 million passengers in 2010, including at
ventures in Thailand and  Indonesia , a 13 percent increase that
contributed to it doubling profit. Malaysian Air, which has 126
planes, carried 13.1 million passengers last year. Its net
income declined 55 percent on smaller hedging gains.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow in  Hong Kong  at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  