-- 
Malawi Central Bank Will Aim to Control Inflation After Kwacha Devaluation

-- B y   F r a n k   J o m o   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-08-09T13:00:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/malawi-central-bank-will-aim-to-control-inflation-after-kwacha-devaluation.html
Malawi’s central bank governor, Perks Ligoya, urged businesses not to raise prices after yesterday’s
10 percent devaluation of the kwacha and said exporters must
deposit their foreign exchange in banks in the country.  Ligoya, speaking to reporters in Lilongwe, the capital,
also announced that from today tourists must pay their bills in
foreign exchange.  The devaluation followed shortages of fuel, foreign
currency and cement in the southern African country, caused in
part by the withdrawal of aid from the U.K. and the U.S. The
 International Monetary Fund  had urged Malawi to “ease” its
 exchange rate , which was pegged at about 151 to the dollar, and
end subsidies on fuel.  “We haven’t devalued the kwacha following pressure from
the IMF,” Ligoya said. “It can be that IMF wanted us to devalue
the currency, but the decision was solely by the Malawi
government.”  The Nation newspaper today quoted the IMF representative to
Malawi, Ruby Randall, as saying the devaluation was an
“important step.”  President Bingu Wa Mutharika, a former World Bank
economist, said June 24 that Malawi wouldn’t devalue the kwacha
without IMF support to cushion the nation against price rises.  The U.K. withdrew aid worth $550 million for Malawi on June
2 after the government deported a British envoy who criticized
Mutharika in a leaked memorandum. The U.S. suspended a $350
million aid accord to improve electricity supplies after
Malawian police killed 18 people protesting against rising costs
and shortages.  Malawi depends on foreign aid to fund about 40 percent of
its annual budget.  Earnings from tobacco, which provides Malawi about 60
percent of its export income, may slump 33 percent to $300
million this year because farmers are rejecting low prices,
Finance Minister Ken Kandodo said in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Jomo in Blantyre at 
 fjomo@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 