-- 
Hanwha Chemical Lifts Profit Forecast on Higher Prices, Weak Won

-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 
2011-08-09T22:36:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/hanwha-chemical-lifts-profit-forecast-on-higher-prices-weak-won.html
Hanwha Chemical Corp.,  South Korea ’s
biggest maker of chlorine-alkali chemicals, increased its
forecast for operating profit growth this year to as much as 15
percent because of rising prices and a weakening won.  The Seoul-based company earlier aimed to boost operating
profit as much as 8 percent from 486 billion won ($447 million)
in 2010, Senior Vice President Choi Kyu Dong said yesterday in
an interview.  Demand from  China  and India, the world’s fastest-growing
major economies is lifting prices of polyethylene, polyvinyl
chloride and other high-value resins used in plastic products. A
10 won drop of the South Korean currency against the dollar will
probably inflate operating profit by “billions of won,” Choi
said. Hanwha sells about half of its output to China and other
Asian nations,  Australia  and  North America , he said.  The company plans to release second-quarter results later
this month.  Hanwha dropped 2.9 percent to 37,000 won at the close of
trade yesterday in Seoul, paring the stock’s advance this year
to 19 percent. The  Korea Chemical Product (KOSPCHEM)  Index, which includes
88 companies, has risen 8.6 percent this year, compared with a
12 percent drop in the benchmark Kospi index.  Hanwha estimated last year the won would average 1,060
against the dollar in 2011, slipping toward 1,000 by the end of
this year. Since the second half, Hanwha changed its forecast to
1,040, Choi said.  “Our concern is how volatile the currency will be,” Choi
said. “If the won weakens under our current business and
financial structure, the impact won’t be that bad.”  The currency has risen 7.4 percent against the dollar in
the past year, the fourth-best performance among Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It dropped 2.8 percent this
month, becoming the biggest loser among Asian currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in  Seoul  at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  