-- 
AOL Falls to Record Low After Reporting Second-Quarter Loss, Sales Decline

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-08-09T20:28:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/aol-s-loss-narrows-as-ad-sales-increase.html
AOL Inc. (AOL)  had a record decline in New
York trading after reducing its annual earnings forecast,
raising concerns that the company may not be able to turn itself
around following the 2009 spinoff from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)   AOL fell $3.88, or 26 percent, to $11.19 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange trading, the biggest drop and the lowest
level since the spinoff. Earlier, the slump prompted a so-called
circuit breaker that temporarily halted trading.  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong  has been struggling
to revive AOL after the separation from Time Warner, which undid
a $124 billion merger that triggered record losses and sank the
company’s stock price. Rising global advertising sales in the
second quarter, the first gain in three years, failed to
overcome the continuing decline in subscriptions to Web access.  “The turnaround still remains questionable,” said  Clayton Moran , an analyst with Benchmark Co. in  Boca Raton , Florida, who
rates the stock a “hold” and doesn’t own it. “Investors
really have to wait longer to see if there’s anything concrete
that would signal this company can be successful.”  AOL lowered its forecast for adjusted operating income
before depreciation and amortization to $340 million to $370
million for the year, Chief Financial Officer Arthur Minson said
today on a conference call with analysts. That fell short of
Moran’s estimate of $424 million.  Second-quarter net loss shrank to $11.8 million, or 11
cents a share, from $1.06 billion, or $10.02, a year earlier.
Sales slid 8.4 percent to $542.2 million, New York-based AOL
said today in a statement.  The company, which has been losing Web-access customers for
more than eight years, said subscription sales declined 23
percent in the quarter. Display ad revenue rose 14 percent,
while analysts predicted 16 percent, Youssef H. Squali, an
analyst at Jefferies & Co. who rates the shares “hold,” said
in a note to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  