-- 
Apple Overtakes Exxon Becoming World’s Most Valuable Company

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-08-10T20:33:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/apple-rises-from-near-bankruptcy-to-become-most-valuable-company.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  surpassed  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  to seize the title of world’s most valuable company, as
investor confidence in high-tech growth prospects exceeded faith
in the oil industry’s gushing profits.  While both companies declined today, Exxon fell more,
leaving it with a market value of $330.8 billion, compared with
$337.2 billion for Apple at the close of U.S. markets. Yesterday
was the first time Apple passed Exxon in intraday trading.  The showdown with Exxon follows Apple’s 14-year
transformation from a personal-computer also-ran into a seller
of everything from smartphones to digital music. Apple has
already eclipsed  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC) , whose dominance of the
technology industry in the 1990s helped nudge Apple to the
fringes of the PC market.  “The Apple of today is different from the Apple of even a
few years ago,” Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach,
said in an interview. “People who buy Apple tend to buy big and
get your friends and family to do it as well. There’s nothing
else like that.”  The shares have climbed 13 percent this year, fueled by
sales of the iPad and iPhone, and a burgeoning business in  China .
Apple fell 2.3 percent to $363.69 at 4 p.m.  New York  time on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. Shares of Irving, Texas-based Exxon
declined 4.4 percent to $68.03 on the New York Stock Exchange.  Oil Futures  Exxon has tumbled since trading in July at more than $85 a
share, as oil futures in New York have dropped. Exxon bought XTO
Energy Inc. last year to tap natural-gas shale deposits in  North
America  and is seeking to buy more gas reserves, even as futures
remain about $4 per million British thermal units.  “Two things that I would definitely say have hurt Exxon
are lower  oil prices  and its increasing reliance on natural
gas,” said  Philip Weiss , an analyst at Argus Research in New
York. Weiss, whose family owns some Exxon shares, has a “buy”
rating on the company.  Apple, meanwhile, is poised to increase computer sales as
much as twofold over the next few years, and the iPhone business
may triple in size, Wu said. If successful, the company’s new
iCloud music and information-storage service, which only works
with Apple products, could further lock its customers into
buying the company’s devices.  Profit Surge  Apple’s profit more than doubled last quarter to $7.31
billion on revenue of $28.6 billion. The company had record
sales of iPhones and iPads -- products that didn’t exist five
years ago -- and they now account for about two-thirds of
revenue. Apple also has accumulated $76.2 billion in cash and
other holdings.  Even so, the company’s profits are eclipsed by Exxon’s.
Analysts estimate that Apple’s net income will reach almost $26
billion in the fiscal year ending in September, according to
Bloomberg data. That compares with about $42 billion for Exxon
in calendar 2011.  The gulf between the companies’ revenue is even larger.
Apple’s sales will be $108.1 billion this fiscal year, analysts
estimate. For Exxon, the projection is $481.6 billion.  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs , who co-founded
the company at the age of 21, was ousted by the board in 1985.
When he returned 12 years later, Apple had run up $1.86 billion
in losses over two years. It was 90 days away from bankruptcy,
Jobs would later say.  New Markets  He engineered the company’s comeback by honing Apple’s
industrial design, tightly integrating software with hardware,
and pushing into new markets, such as phones, music and tablets.  The iPhone, introduced in 2007, has become Apple’s best-
selling product and turned the company into the world’s biggest
smartphone maker. After winning customers away from  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  and Nokia Oyj, Apple is now sparring with Google Inc.
for leadership in the market for mobile-phone software.  The company stoked recent growth with a new version of its
Mac computer operating system called OS X Lion, along with
updated computers. ICloud, meanwhile, will let users store,
synchronize and access files from different Apple devices.  Apple’s shares are up from an adjusted $5.48 on Sept. 16,
1997, the day Jobs retook the reins as head of the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  