-- 
Apple Wins Order Against Samsung Tablet in EU

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-08-09T22:14:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/apple-says-it-won-order-against-samsung-galaxy-tablet-in-eu-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won a temporary order that
prevents Samsung Electronics Co. from distributing the Galaxy
Tab 10.1 tablet computer in the European Union, except the
Netherlands.  A district court in Dusseldorf,  Germany , granted the
injunction, according to the dpa-AFX news service, citing
unidentified people involved in the court negotiations. Apple
spokeswoman  Kristin Huguet  confirmed the report today.  Samsung said it was given no notice of Apple’s request in a
German court to temporarily prevent sales of the Galaxy tablet.
The order was issued “without any hearing or presentation of
evidence from Samsung,” Kim Titus, a spokesman for Samsung,
said in a statement today.  Apple contends that Samsung’s Galaxy phones and tablet
computer “slavishly copy” the iPhone and iPad. Apple is also
seeking a court order to block sales in the U.S. until a trial
can be held on patent-infringement claims there. In  Australia ,
Samsung has agreed not to introduce a version of its Galaxy
tablet computer until an Apple lawsuit there is resolved.  Samsung will “act immediately to defend our intellectual
property rights through the ongoing legal proceedings in Germany
and will continue to actively defend these rights throughout the
world,” Titus said.  The Suwon, South Korean phonemaker will “take all
necessary measures to ensure Samsung’s innovative mobile
communications devices are available to customers in  Europe  and
around the world,” he said.  Dispute Over Galaxy  The dispute began in April when Cupertino, California-based
Apple sued Samsung in the U.S., claiming that the Galaxy
products imitated Apple designs and technology. Samsung, which
supplies memory chips for Apple, has retaliated with lawsuits in
 South Korea , Japan, Germany and the U.S.  “It’s no coincidence that Samsung’s latest products look a
lot like the iPhone and iPad, from the shape of the hardware to
the user interface and even the packaging,” Huguet said,
reiterating comments made by the company in April. “This kind
of blatant copying is wrong, and we need to protect Apple’s
intellectual property when companies steal our ideas.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  