-- 
Arsenal Opens Door for Nasri’s Move to Manchester City: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-08-09T10:35:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/arsenal-opens-door-for-nasri-s-move-to-manchester-city-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspaper, with clickable links to the
websites.  Nasri Going?  Samir Nasri may move from Arsenal to  Manchester City  after
the Gunners softened their stance on keeping the midfielder, the
 Guardian said .  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  has said he was determined to
keep Nasri, whose contract expires after this season, amid media
reports that he may move to Manchester. Arsenal now feels if
City expresses its interest with a formal offer in the region of
25 million pounds ($41 million), the club would be wise to
accept it, the Guardian said.  Nasri has stalled at signing a new contract worth 90,000
pounds per week. He’s told teammates he’s relaxed about whether
he stays or goes this summer, but his conviction to leave has
hardened in recent days, the Guardian said.  Diarra Snag  Tottenham’s bid to sign Lassana Diarra from Real  Madrid  has
hit a snag over the midfielder’s 20 million-pound price tag, the
 Sun said .  Spurs manager Harry Redknapp will not meet Real’s demand as
he rates Diarra at just 14 million pounds, the Sun said.  Dann for Anfield?  Liverpool manager Kenny Dalglish wants to sign Birmingham
defender  Scott Dann  after his club allowed 15 goals in six
preseason matches, the  Daily Star  said.  Dalglish was eyeing Dann, who’s rated at 8 million pounds,
earlier this summer but opted to strengthen his midfield by
adding Stewart Downing, Charlie Adam and Jordan Henderson, the
Star said. Injuries to defenders  Martin Skrtel  and Glen Johnson
this preseason may hasten a move for Dann, the newspaper said.  Pay Up  Newcastle has been told it will cost 14 million pounds to
sign striker Roman Pavlyuchenko from Tottenham, the  Daily Mail 
said.  After adding Gabriel Obertan from  Manchester United ,
Newcastle manager  Alan Pardew  is determined to bring in another
striker and remains interested in Paris Saint-Germain’s Mevlut
Erding, the Mail said.  Inkoom Bids  Aston Villa and Fulham are both preparing to made offers
for Ghana defender Samuel Inkoom, the Mail said.  The 22-year-old has been the subject of racial abuse since
joining Dnipro in Ukraine from Swiss club Basel in January and
the two Premier League clubs will be watching when Ghana faces
Nigeria in an exhibition tonight in Watford, the Mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 