-- 
Artificial-Knee Suits Targeting Zimmer Haunt Lawyers

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-08-09T17:57:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/artificial-knee-suits-targeting-zimmer-haunt-lawyers-correct-.html
(Corrects location of  law firm  in third paragraph of story
originally published Aug. 8.)  Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH) , facing 78
product-liability lawsuits over its NexGen Flex artificial
knees, has a rare strategy to defend the product: target lawyers
representing the patients.  Attorney  Brett Emison , who wrote a  blog post  about failures
in NexGen knees, got a letter from Zimmer lawyers accusing him
of “alarmist fear mongering” and demanding he stop.  “It’s a blatant attempt to try to frighten plaintiffs’
lawyers from pursuing these cases,” said Emison of Lexington,
Missouri-based Langdon & Emison.  He’s not alone in drawing the legal wrath of the world’s
biggest maker of replacement knees and hips. The Warsaw,
Indiana-based company has sued seven law firms this year and
sent warning letters to at least three more, saying their ads
and Internet postings distorted the safety record of its $1.8
billion-a-year knee business.  The pre-emptive strikes, begun in January, are an unusually
aggressive move, even in an orthopedics industry that’s become
rife with litigation, said law professor David Logan.  Zimmer is firing “a shot across the bow to these
plaintiffs’ firms,” said Logan, dean at  Roger Williams
University ’s law school in Bristol,  Rhode Island , in a telephone
interview. “It’s like putting a loaded gun on the table for
negotiations. You’re saying, ‘Not only are we not going to give
you money, we’re going to go after you as well.’”  Correcting Record  The 84-year-old company is merely trying to correct the
record about the 3 million NexGen knees implanted worldwide
since 1994, said  Garry Clark , a Zimmer spokesman. In contrast to
the lawyers’ claims, joint-replacement databases in the U.K.,
 Sweden  and  Australia  show the products have among the industry’s
 lowest failure rates , he said by e-mail. (U.S. implant
registries, started this year, haven’t released data yet.)  Plaintiffs’ lawyers “have a right to advertise
truthfully,” Clark said. “They don’t have a right to lie about
our products.”  Zimmer fell $3.66, or 6.4 percent, to $53.90 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, on a day the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index tumbled 6.7 percent after S&P’s downgrade of
the U.S. credit rating. Before today, Zimmer had gained 7.2
percent this year.  The ads for the law firms followed a 2009 study that found
one brand of NexGen knees had a high rate of revision surgeries,
repeat procedures needed to fix a failing implant. That prompted
a  Michigan  firm’s Web campaign saying NexGen was “linked to
pain, failure and revision surgery!”  Scarlet Letters  A Texas firm ran TV commercials warning in flashing scarlet
letters of NexGen’s dangers and inviting former patients to call
a toll-free number for a free consultation, Zimmer’s lawsuit
said.  Zimmer may eventually face 1,000 NexGen suits, said James
Ronca, a Philadelphia attorney representing patients.  The implant maker has also subpoenaed two firms, seeking
information on their contacts with a network of personal-injury
attorneys. Four firms sued by Zimmer have settled and issued
retractions. The case against the remaining firms is ongoing.  Zimmer’s NexGen line includes more than 40 products. The
knees combine four primary components. Each has a tibial plate
set on the lower leg bone, a femoral component attached to the
upper leg, a weight-bearing plastic insert between the two, and
a replacement kneecap. Most surgeons use a cement to attach the
parts.  NexGen Component  The device that sparked the lawyers’ warnings, the NexGen
CR-Flex Porous Femoral Component, is designed for doctors who
prefer not to use cement. Instead, the components have textured
or coated surfaces that encourage bone growth to fuse the
implant in place.  Zimmer, in a May 2010 regulatory  filing , said it had sold
more than 150,000 porous femoral components since the system’s
U.S. approval in 2003. The product accounted for 2 percent of
knee revenue in 2009, the company said.  The CR-Flex’s safety was questioned as early as 2006 by
 Richard Berger , an orthopedic surgeon at Rush University Medical
Center in  Chicago  and a paid consultant to Zimmer, according to
a June 2010 New York Times  article . Berger told the Times that
he had warned the company about cementless prostheses coming
loose inside patients.  Two years later, Berger and a fellow Rush University
surgeon, Craig  Della Valle , released a 108-patient study that
found nine instances of femoral loosening and pain requiring a
repeat operation, a failure rate of 8.3 percent, according to
Zimmer’s 2010 filing. Thirty-nine patients showed evidence of
loosening. The doctors said the problems “were not related to
surgeon, approach or patient type,” according to the filing.  Surgeons’ Meeting  Berger and Della Valle presented the data to a meeting of
the  American Association  of Orthopaedic Surgeons. The data
haven’t been published in a peer-reviewed journal. Neither man
returned calls seeking comment.  Law firms pounced, publicizing the study in campaigns that
suggested that all NexGen knees were a problem, Zimmer said in
its lawsuit. The ads have tarnished the company’s reputation and
hurt sales, it said.  In February, Zimmer sued three firms in federal court in
 South Bend ,  Indiana . It would later add four more. The group
included Houston-based  Pulaski & Middleman LLC , whose TV ad
said: “Reports show the ZIMMER NEXGEN KNEE IMPLANT may have a
failure rate of 9%,” according to the complaint.  Another firm, Weller, Green Toups & Terrell LLP of
Beaumont,  Texas , wrote to doctors around the U.S. in search of
patients who might want to sue over Zimmer’s “defective knee
implants.”  Retractions Issued  Both firms agreed to issue retractions, as did Gordon,
Edelstein, Krepack, Grant, Felton & Goldstein LLP of  Los Angeles 
and Kresch Oliver of Southfield, Michigan.  “We have determined that the sources we previously relied
upon to make claims about the Zimmer NexGen Knee System do not
support the statements or implications” in the ads, according
to a  statement  posted on Pulaski’s website.  A series of U.S. Supreme Court rulings have given attorneys
wide latitude in advertising and recruiting clients, said Logan,
the Roger Williams dean. The campaigns can say anything that’s
not “provably false or misleading,” he said.  As personal-injury lawyers have grown more bold and
numerous, corporations have gotten more aggressive in their
defense, Logan said.  Zimmer’s strategy “opens up a new front in the product-
liability wars,” he said. “Their lawyers are trying to get
their arms around not being sued by hundreds or thousands of
consumers of their own products.”  ‘Legitimate Discussion’  The lawsuit “is intended only to protect Zimmer and the
patients and doctors who use its products,” said Clark, the
company spokesman. “Zimmer has not made any legal challenge to
advertising that is truthful and welcomes legitimate discussion
based on fact.”  Zimmer’s moves contrast with those of  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,
whose recall last year of 93,000 hip implants has spurred more
than 2,000 lawsuits and widespread legal advertising on the
Internet.  The  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based company hasn’t sued law
firms, though it says some advertising is “misleading and
includes inaccuracies,” said  Lorie Gawreluk , a spokeswoman for
J&J’s DePuy orthopedics unit. “We regularly contact these
attorneys and request that they correct such misinformation.”  Medically Reversible  NexGen components and surgical tools have been the subject
of at least 58  recalls  since 2002, according to U.S. Food and
Drug Administration records. None involved the CR-Flex or porous
femoral components. All were listed as Class 2 recalls, a
category of defects expected to cause only “temporary or
medically reversible” health problems, the agency says.  Attorney  Alyson Oliver  of Kresch Oliver said she regrets
that her firm agreed to the retraction. Zimmer still hasn’t
dropped the lawsuit, she said.  “It encouraged them because they were getting what they
wanted,” she said in an interview. “They were getting the
larger advertising firms to tone down their messages or stop
delivering them.  “Our ads were legitimate,” Oliver said. “There was
nothing erroneous about them.” The retraction was “a business
decision to try to get on with things so that this didn’t
consume our practice.”  Cease-and-Desist  The lawsuits and cease-and-desist letters may backfire,
said attorney Sam Davis of Davis Saperstein & Salomon in
Teaneck,  New Jersey . The company’s campaign has become a hot
topic at public seminars held by plaintiffs’ lawyers, he said.  “The strategic choice of attacking attorneys for minor
inaccuracies is so counter-effective,” said Davis. “Now at the
Zimmer NexGen seminars, which are taking place all over the
country, they’re actually attracting more attorneys. Many
plaintiffs’ lawyers believe it has attracted more attention.”  Ronca, the Philadelphia attorney, said he received a cease-
and-desist letter as well, based upon an e-mail he sent to
another plaintiffs’ lawyer.  “We told them that they could go jump in a lake because we
didn’t misrepresent anything because it wasn’t public,” said
the attorney, of Anapol, Schwartz, Weiss, Cohan, Feldman &
Smalley.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  