-- 
Harvard Grad Swaps Soccer Club’s Cocaine Boss for Colombia IPO

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-08-09T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/harvard-grad-swaps-cocaine-boss-for-ipo-as-colombian-soccer-club-rebuilds.html
Thirteen-time Colombian champion
 Millonarios , once owned by a drug cartel billionaire, plans to
become Latin America’s first soccer team outside  Chile  to list
shares as new owners and a Harvard University-trained turnaround
specialist lead it out of bankruptcy.  In a bid to arrest two decades of on- and off-the-field
decline, the government last year brought in Jose Roberto Arango, known for salvaging failing companies, to revamp the
Bogota-based team. The government has owned about a 27 percent
stake in the club since it seized the assets of Medellin cartel
kingpin Gonzalo Rodriguez Gacha after his 1989 shootout death.  Millonarios is seeking to join companies offering a record
number of shares in the Andean nation this year after President
 Juan Manuel Santos  signed a law in May making it easier for
soccer clubs to form corporations. The listing could pave the
way for other squads for whom drug profits were a mainstay of
funding in the 1980s and 1990s, said Ivan Novelo, manager of
 Dimayor , Colombian soccer’s governing body.  “There’s no more easy money in soccer,” Novelo said in a
telephone interview. “There’s more transparency today in how
clubs manage money, so much so that they almost all are facing
bankruptcy and talent drains.”  Past Glory  Arango orchestrated the sale of the team out of bankruptcy
to  Azul y Blanco SA , a Bogota-based company created in April to
rescue the club.  According to its  prospectus  filed with the securities
regulator in March, Azul y Blanco counts among its investors
Alessandro Corridori, the biggest shareholder in Fabricato SA,
 Colombia ’s biggest textile maker, and Juan Carlos Ortiz, a
shareholder of Interbolsa SA, the nation’s biggest brokerage.  The company, which paid 24 billion pesos ($13 million) for
rights to the club name and its players, plans to offer this
year shares worth almost the same amount and representing as
much as a 51 percent stake, said Eduardo Silva, Azul y Blanco’s
president. The proceeds will fund the purchase of a training
facility. Practices are currently held at a tennis club.  “A model of broader participation is better for Colombian
soccer, as it will reduce the role of drug money,” Silva said.
“Millonarios’s big idea is to totally democratize ownership.”  The quality of Colombian soccer has suffered in recent
years as teams have been slow to adopt business practices
powering Colombia’s economy, said Novelo. The country hasn’t
qualified for the  World Cup  since 1998.  Drugs to Debt  Millionarios was Colombia’s greatest team at its peak in
the 1950s, when it defeated clubs including  Real Madrid  on
frequent tours of  Europe . Among its players from 1949 to 1953
was Argentine forward Alfredo Di Stefano, who went on to score
the fourth-most total goals ever in  Spain ’s top division.  The club’s decline began when Colombia’s government seized
Gacha’s stake in the club after he was killed during a shootout
with soldiers at his ranch. In 1988, Gacha was named along with
fellow Medellin cartel boss  Pablo Escobar  to Forbes Magazine’s
annual list of billionaires.  Following Gacha’s death, Millonarios’s debt grew until the
company filed for bankruptcy in 2004. The debt stood at 24
billion pesos last year, Silva said.  The offering by Millonarios would make Colombia only the
second country in  Latin America  with listed soccer teams after
Chile, where the holding companies that own Colo-Colo,
 Universidad de Chile  and Universidad Catolica all trade on the
Santiago stock exchange.  Harvard Grad  Colombian companies are seeking to raise about 8 trillion
pesos through a record seven share sales this year as the
country’s stock exchange merges with  Peru ’s and Chile’s in Latin
America’s first international bourse combination, Juan Pablo Cordoba, head of the Bogota bourse, said Aug. 3.  The government forecasts the economy will expand 6 percent
this year, the most since 2007.  Millonarios’ turnaround was orchestrated by Arango, who in
1995 received a masters degree in public administration from
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Harvard and served as an aide to
former President  Alvaro Uribe .  When Arango took control of the team at the government’s
urging, Millonarios was on the verge of being relegated to
Colombia’s second division and faced liquidation for failing to
pay debts.  “The team had very big economic problems after being
managed quite informally,” said Arango, who previously turned
around failing mining and textile companies including Medellin-
based clothing exporter  Coltejer SA. (COLTEJ)   Coltejer, which came out of bankruptcy in 2008, has
advanced 26 percent this year, making it the second-biggest
gainer on the Bogota´s IGBC Index. The benchmark index has
declined 18 percent in 2011 in local currency terms, the second-
best performance among the region’s six biggest exchanges.  Drug Ties  Other Colombian clubs remain mired in legal and financial
problems because of suspected links to the nation’s cocaine
trade, which supplies about 90 percent of the narcotic consumed
in the U.S., according to the State Department.  In 2003, the U.S. Treasury Department seized assets in the
U.S. belonging to  soccer club  America de Cali for ties to
members of the family that once controlled the drug trade from
the namesake southern Colombian city.  Last year, Cali’s government led an effort to create a new
company,  Nuevo America SA , with U.S.-approved shareholders to
take control of the team and distance it from the alleged drug
ties of its previous owner, said Mauricio Velez, Nuevo America’s
manager. Velez wouldn’t comment on the alleged links to the Cali
cartel.  Market, Sponsors  Prosecutors are investigating Millonarios’ cross-town
rival,  Independiente Santa Fe , and have appealed a March ruling
that absolved the former head and employees of Independiente
Medellin on charges of taking drug profits, Pedro Verdugo, head
of the money laundering unit at the federal prosecutor’s office,
said in an interview at his Bogota office.  Jorge Osorio, head of Independiente Medellin, did not
respond to telephone calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Cesar Pastrana, the president of  Santa Fe , denied the drug
links, adding that no charges have been brought against the
team. Still, Bavaria SA, the Colombian unit of  SABMiller Plc (SBMRY) ,
pulled its sponsorship of the club last year after the probe was
launched, he said in a phone interview. Santa Fe plans to
emulate Millonarios’ business acumen by forming a company to
list shares, he said.  “Those being investigated for alleged drug ties have
nothing to do with this team and are neither shareholders nor
directors,” Pastrana said. “Still, we lost Bavaria’s support
and it’s been tough to find a new sponsor of that magnitude.”  Tainted Image  As authorities clamp down on illicit sources of financing,
ticket sales have declined, leaving some clubs unable to pay
player salaries on time.  Tickets sold in 2010 fell 30 percent from the year before
to 2.1 million as cash-strapped clubs fielded inexperienced
squads, violence in the stands kept fans at home and teams
renovated stadiums ahead of FIFA’s under-20 World Cup, which
began July 29, Novelo said.  Cleaning up Colombian soccer’s finances may be easier than
erasing the sport’s image as a vanity investment for the
nation’s kingpins.  That reputation comes from events such as cartel boss
Escobar’s burial with the flag of Medellin-based  Atletico
Nacional  draped over his coffin in 1993 or the killing, at the
peak of the country’s drug-related violence, of defender Andres
Escobar after he knocked the ball into his own goal during the
1994 World Cup.  The new law signed by Santos in May requires teams to file
financial reports twice a year stating the origins of their
shareholders’ funds.  “Our sports will not be sneakily financed by
delinquents,” Santos, a fan of Santa Fe, said at the signing
ceremony. “It will not be, we won’t allow it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  