-- 
Global Stock Rout Engulfs Asia as U.S. Debt Cut, China CPI Add to Concerns

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-08-09T10:49:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/asian-stocks-decline-for-sixth-day-on-worsening-global-outlook.html
The global equity market rout that
has erased about $7.8 trillion from stocks worldwide over the
past two weeks eased today in Asian trading amid speculation the
U.S. will announce measures to support the market and as state-
run funds in South Korea and Taiwan bought shares.  The declines drove benchmark indexes in the region’s six
biggest markets toward retreats of 20 percent from recent highs
after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. credit rating. Futures on
the S&P 500 Index swung between gains and losses today after the
gauge fell the most since December 2008 yesterday. Britain’s
FTSE 100 Index slumped as U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron cut
short a vacation to deal with rioting in  London .  Hong Kong ’s
 Hang Seng Index (HSI)  fell 23 percent from a November high after  China 
reported its inflation rate accelerated.  “Fear has taken over,” said  Paul Xiradis , who manages
about $12 billion in assets as chief executive officer of Ausbil
Dexia Ltd. in Sydney. “It’s like a rapid fire burning away the
market, but like all things it’s going to exhaust itself
eventually. There are obviously still concerns about what’s
happening in the U.S.,  Europe  and China, but it appears to me
we’re seeing all the classic signs of a blowout or a climax.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, which last week entered a so-
called correction after falling more than 10 percent from its
May peak, pared a loss of as much as 5.5 percent today. It was
down 1.9 percent at 120.59 as of 7:38 p.m. in  Tokyo . More than
four times as many stocks fell as advanced on the gauge.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index swung 5.7 points in intraday
trading, the second-biggest move since November 2008.  Taiwan , Korea  All industry groups tracked by the measure dropped today.
The gauge trimmed its losses after governments in Taiwan and
South Korea acted to stem stock declines, and amid speculation
the U.S. Federal Reserve will announce measures to support
markets after a scheduled meeting today.  Taiwan’s benchmark index fell 0.8 percent, narrowing
earlier declines after Philip Yang, a Cabinet spokesman, said
the government bought stocks yesterday and this morning through
four funds it controls.  Korea Teachers Pension, South Korea’s second-largest public
pension fund, said it bought the nation’s stocks during recent
market selloffs, and plans to buy more if prices fall further.
The nation’s benchmark Kospi Index fell 3.6 percent, paring a
loss of as much as 9.9 percent earlier.  Federal Reserve officials may strengthen their commitment
to record monetary stimulus as soon as today after a faltering
economic recovery and a U.S. credit-rating downgrade sparked a
rout in global stocks. By a 52 percent-to-48 percent margin,
respondents in a Bloomberg News survey said the Fed would ease
policy this year through monetary tools or statement language.  ‘Circuit Breaker Needed’  “You’ve needed a circuit breaker after the freefall we’ve
experienced over the last few days, and it’s likely to come in
the form of government intervention,” said Jason Teh, who helps
manage about $3 billion at Investors Mutual Ltd. in Sydney. “At
the end of the day, stocks are companies, and companies are
worth something, and it gets to a level where governments
intervene and stocks begin to rally.”  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services yesterday lowered credit
ratings on debt issued by U.S.-backed mortgage lenders including
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , citing its own Aug. 5 downgrade of
the federal government’s AAA status.  Sony Corp. (6758) , which earns almost half its revenue in the U.S.
and Europe, fell 1.1 percent in Tokyo. Toyota Motor Corp., the
world’s largest carmaker, retreated 1.9 percent. Samsung
Electronics Co., South Korea’s No. 1 exporter of consumer
electronics, fell 4.7 percent in Seoul. HSBC Holdings Plc, the
U.K.-based lender that made a fifth of its revenue in North
America last year, sank 7.3 percent in Hong Kong.  Nikkei, Hang Seng  STX Pan Ocean Co., South Korea’s biggest bulk carrier,
tumbled 14 percent in Seoul. Elpida Memory Inc., the Japanese
maker of memory chips fell 9.2 percent in Tokyo after swinging
to a loss for the three months ended June.  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 1.7 percent and the
broader Topix Index slipped 1.6 percent to 770.39 after spending
much of the day below the level of its lowest close in the
aftermath of the country’s March 11 earthquake.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index lost 5.7 percent, taking its
drop from a Nov. 8 peak to 23 percent as China reported its
inflation rate accelerated to the fastest pace in three years in
July, restraining the government from easing monetary policy as
risks to the global economy mount.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rallied late in the day to
advance 1.2 percent as the nation’s banks reversed losses.
Yesterday, the gauge slipped below the 4,000 level that marks a
20 percent retreat from its April 2010 high. Interbank cash-rate
futures indicate the  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s key rate will
fall to 3.33 percent by December from 4.75 percent.  Export-Led Economy  Australian gauges of funding costs are the lowest in more
than a year, giving lenders scope to cut home-loan rates
independently of the central bank as competition intensifies and
demand for credit stalls. The rate banks pay to borrow from each
other for six months dropped to 4.50 percent yesterday, down
from this year’s high of 5.22 percent on May 9.  New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index declined 2.8 percent, even as
the nation’s Finance Minister Bill English said the country is
well positioned to withstand turbulence in global financial
markets because its export-led economy is linked to Asian
nations driving world growth.  Equity indexes in Australia, Hong Kong and  Shanghai  have
all registered falls in excess of 20 percent from their peaks,
fulfilling the conditions of a so-called bear market, on concern
the global economy is slowing and the U.S. may enter a
recession. Indexes in Japan entered a bear market amid market
plunges following the March earthquake and have yet to exit,
while those in South Korea and  India  are less than 1 percent
from passing the threshold.  Estimated Earnings  The Asia-Pacific index’s earlier declines saw it
temporarily erase all the gains since U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke announced in August 2010 that the
central bank would add further stimulus to the world’s biggest
economy through a program of asset purchases, also known as
quantitative easing, or QE2.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 11 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with drops of 11 percent by the  S&P
500  and 17 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark were valued at 12.3 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 11.2 times for the S&P 500 and 9.3 times
for the Stoxx 600.  Among the companies that rose on the Asia-Pacific index
today was Gree Inc., operator of a Japanese social-networking
website. It advanced 9 percent after saying full-year net income
will rise to as much as 28 billion yen, from 18.2 billion yen.
Separately, the stock was raised to “overweight” from
“neutral” at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  NAB, Billabong  National Australia Bank Ltd., the country’s biggest
business lender, gained 2.9 percent after falling as much as 6.1
percent in Sydney after saying third-quarter profit rose 27
percent.  Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , the world’s biggest
surfwear maker that gets almost half its sales from the
Americas, gained 1.2 percent in Sydney, reversing a plunge of as
much as 7.5 percent earlier.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1 mining company, rose
1.2 percent, erasing a loss of as much 4.9 percent. Jiangxi
Copper Ltd., China’s biggest producer of the metal, pared its
decline to 4.4 percent from 8.6 percent earlier.  “It’s encouraging to see some kind of bottom in trading of
Asian equities today,” said Stephen Corry, the Hong Kong-based
Asia head of investment strategy for LGT Group, which oversees
the equivalent of about $114 billion. “It’s an indication that
we may have reached a point where selling over the last few
weeks is beginning to exhaust itself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 