-- 
Stocks in U.S. Soar, Treasury 10-Year Yield Hits Record Low on Fed Remarks

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-09T22:04:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/asian-stocks-drop-as-yen-treasuries-gain-on-recovery-concern-gold-climbs.html
U.S. stocks jumped the most in more
than two years, rebounding from the worst drop since 2008, and
10-year Treasury yields touched a record low as the  Federal
Reserve  vowed to keep  interest rates  near zero through mid-2013.
The dollar weakened and the Swiss franc rose the most since at
least 1971.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped 4.7 percent to
1,172.53 at 4 p.m. in New York, its biggest gain since March
2009, after tumbling 6.7 percent yesterday. The 10-year Treasury
yield fell as much as 28 basis points to 2.03 percent before
trimming its decline. The Dollar Index slid 1.2 percent, its
biggest drop since October, while the Swiss franc strengthened
as much as 6.5 percent to a record $1.4099.  In pledging to keep its benchmark rate at an all-time low,
the Fed also discussed a range of policy tools to bolster the
economy, saying it is prepared to use them “as appropriate.”
The statement fueled speculation the central bank may consider a
third round of quantitative easing through bond purchases to
revive a recovery that’s “considerably slower” than
anticipated.  “The Fed is clearly setting up a situation that could
offer them the potential to do something significant, if
necessary,” Bruce McCain, who helps oversee $22 billion as
chief investment strategist at the private-banking unit of
KeyCorp in  Cleveland , said in a telephone interview. “That
could be viewed as a positive,” he said. “People are starting
to realize that what we’ve had in the market was an
overreaction.”  Rebound After Rout  U.S. stocks rebounded from a rout that wiped out $1
trillion yesterday in the first trading session after the
government was stripped of its AAA rating at S&P. The S&P 500
sank 11 percent in the previous three days and started today
trading at 12.3 times reported earnings, compared with its
average of 16.4 since 1954, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The MSCI All-Country World Index rose 2.1 percent for its
biggest gain of the year, rebounding from a drop of as much as 2
percent earlier today that threatened to extend declines from
this year’s high in May to 20 percent or the threshold for a
 bear market . The index started the U.S. session valued at about
12.1 times profits, down from 21 in 1995..The MSCI Emerging
Markets Index pared today’s drop to 2.2 percent after tumbling
as much as 4.4 percent.  Dow Rallies  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rallied 429.92 points, or
4 percent, to 11,239.77 for the biggest percentage gain since
the month the bull market began in March 2009. The Dow’s advance
today was the 10th largest point-gain in the history of the
index, according to Bespoke Investment Group LLC. All 30 stocks
gained at least 0.8 percent.  Laszlo Birinyi, one of the first investors to recommend
buying when the bull market began in 2009, said the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index will continue its ascent, though possibly not
to the level he had predicted.  “The  bull market  is intact, and while our ‘target’ of
1,450 in mid-2012 is admittedly a bit shaky, our more important
conclusion that a rational, disciplined portfolio can attain a
10 percent plus return in 2011 is not,” Birinyi, of Westport,
Connecticut-based research firm Birinyi Associates Inc., wrote
in a note today.  Financial Shares   Financial shares in the S&P 500 led today’s advance,
surging more than 8.2 percent as a group for the biggest rally
since May 2009 and recovering from yesterday’s two-year low.
Bank of America Corp. surged 17 percent and Hartford Financial
Services Group Inc. climbed 16 percent to lead gains among 80 of
81 banks, insurers and investment firms in the index.  The Fed’s statement represents the biggest effort since
November to spark the  U.S. economy  and revive confidence while
stopping short of initiating a third round of large-scale asset
purchases. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues acted
after reports showed the economy was slowing and an
unprecedented downgrade to the U.S. credit rating sent stocks
tumbling from Sydney to  New York . Three members of the policy
committee dissented, preferring to maintain the pledge to keep
rates low for an “extended period” without a specific
timeframe.  The central bank’s plan to keep the federal funds rate in
its range of zero to 0.25 percent for two more years is a
“major policy change,” according to Augustine Faucher,
director of macroeconomics at Moody’s Analytics in  West Chester ,
Pa.  Fed ‘Is Concerned’  “By providing a more explicit time line for raising rates,
the Fed is telling markets it is concerned about recent economic
weakness and the potential for a near-term contraction, and is
dedicated to spurring stronger economic growth, Faucher wrote in
a note.  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. climbed 19 percent for the
biggest increase in the  S&P 500 . Four executives, including
Chief Executive Officer Ahmad Chatila, bought a combined 87,500
shares of the second-largest U.S. manufacturer of polysilicon on
Aug. 5, according to regulatory filings.  Treasury note and bond yields plunged after the Fed’s
statement was issued at 2:18 p.m. New York time, before paring
the declines later in the afternoon.  Two-year Treasury yields also touched a record low,
dropping as much as 10 basis points to 0.16 percent before
trading at 0.20 percent. Thirty-year rates were little changed
at 3.65 percent. The Treasury’s sale of $32 billion in three-
year notes drew stronger-than-average demand in the first note
sale since the U.S. debt rating was cut.  Moody’s, Fitch  Moody’s Investors Service reiterated yesterday that it
affirmed the U.S. government’s top Aaa ranking because the
dollar’s status as the main reserve currency allows it to
support higher debt levels than other countries.  Fitch Ratings 
affirmed its AAA grade for the U.S. last week. The U.S. AA+
rating at S&P is still higher than Japan or  China .  European shares recovered from early losses amid
speculation that the Fed would bolster investor confidence. The
Stoxx  Europe  600 Index snapped a seven-day slump and rebounded
from a two-year low, climbing 1.4 percent after plunging 5.1
percent in early trading. Basic-resource stocks rebounded from
an 11-day slide, led by gains at Antofagasta Plc. Thomas Cook
Group Plc, Europe’s second-largest tour operator, surged 17
percent. RWE AG,  Germany ’s second-biggest power company, led
utilities lower after profit fell.  Italian Bonds  The yield on  Italy ’s 10-year note fell 11 basis points to
5.18 percent, after dropping 81 basis points yesterday. The
extra yield investors demand to hold Italian 10-year securities
instead of benchmark German bunds dropped 21 basis points to 281
basis points today, the least since July 22. The  European
Central Bank  bought Italian and Spanish bonds for a second day,
people familiar with the transactions said.  Spain ’s 10-year
yield fell eight basis points to 5.08 percent today, extending
yesterday’s slide.  Four years after BNP Paribas SA marked the start of a
financial crisis by freezing withdrawals from investment funds
because it wasn’t able to value subprime mortgage bonds, a
reduction of the U.S. debt rating and escalating sovereign woes
in Europe show credit markets are still fragile. The Markit
iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on mostly junk-
rated European companies increased for an eighth day, adding 18
basis points to a mid-price of 592 today.  The S&P GSCI index of 24 commodities lost 1 percent. Oil
lost 2.5 to $79.30 a barrel, the lowest level since September.
Gold futures pared gains after adding as much as 4.1 percent to
a record $1,782.50 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  