-- 
AT&T’s $39 Billion T-Mobile Bid Shouldn’t Be Approved, Consumer Group Says

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-08-10T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/at-t-s-t-mobile-bid-should-be-rejected-consumer-watchdog-tells-regulators.html
U.S. regulators should reject  AT&T
Inc. (T) ’s proposed $39 billion purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc.
because it will lead to higher prices for consumers, the public-
interest group  Consumer Watchdog  said.  “T-Mobile customers who are forced to migrate to AT&T’s
network will have to buy new phones, agree to more expensive
rate plans or cancel their contracts and pay a termination
fee,” the  Santa Monica , California-based group said in a
letter. “Once known for its low prices, T-Mobile has already
begun increasing its rates and decreasing options in
anticipation of the merger,” Consumer Watchdog said.  The letter was addressed to Chairman  Julius Genachowski  of
the Federal Communications Commission, U.S. Attorney General
Eric Holder and Commissioner  Catherine J.K. Sandoval  of the
California Public Utilities Commission.  AT&T spokesman Michael Balmoris said the letter is
“riddled with distortions and factual inaccuracies.”  “Contrary to the letter’s claims, prices for wireless
services have declined sharply in recent years including since
the Cingular-AT&T wireless merger, as confirmed by a Government
Accounting Office  report  showing that wireless voice prices have
declined 50 percent over a 10-year period,” Balmoris said
yesterday by e-mail.  The market is “fiercely competitive” and will remain so
after the merger, the company says on its website.  New No. 1  The acquisition from  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  would unite the
second- and fourth-largest carriers to create a new market
leader, ahead of No. 1  Verizon Wireless , owned by  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)  The FCC and the
Justice Department are vetting the deal, proposed March 20, in a
review that AT&T executives said will take about a year.  AT&T’s promises of improved service echo those made by the
company when it promised lower prices and better service before
merging with Cingular Wireless LLC in 2004 in a $41 billion
transaction,  Harvey Rosenfield , Consumer Watchdog’s founder,
said in a telephone interview.  “They betrayed those promises after that merger was
approved,” Rosenfield said. “We calculated that the average
person who was overcharged was out several hundred dollars.”  The company degraded the old AT&T network and forced AT&T
customers to buy new phones and costlier plans or be slapped
with large termination fees, Rosenfield said.  Consumer Watchdog  is fighting a class-action lawsuit
against AT&T it filed in 2006 seeking refunds for AT&T’s
customers.  ‘Repeat Performance’  “Nothing in the terms of the proposed merger bars AT&T
from engaging in a repeat performance against helpless T-Mobile
customers if this deal is approved,” Consumer Watchdog said in
the letter. AT&T is again promising improved service quality,
fewer dropped calls, better access for rural customers, and
better voice and data services as it did in 2004, the group
said.  “How can public officials even contemplate approving
AT&T’s purchase of T-Mobile when AT&T still hasn’t paid back its
customers for the huge fees and other illegal overcharges it
forced people to pay when it broke its promises after the merger
with Cingular back in 2004?” said Rosenfield, one of the
lawyers prosecuting the suit over the AT&T-Cingular merger.  That case,  Coneff v. AT&T Corp. , is before the federal
appeals court in  San Francisco .  “Contrary to the letter’s claims, T-Mobile consumers will
be able to keep their rate plans for as long as they want to,
even when upgrading to a comparable device, once the merger is
completed,” AT&T’s Balmoris said in yesterday’s e-mail.  Better Service  The change will bring improved service, jobs and economic
benefits to “tens of millions of consumers across the
country,” he said.  “After the acquisition closes, customers’ voice and data
experience will improve as the networks combine and AT&T builds
out its LTE network,” Hernan Daguerre, a T-Mobile USA
spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mail message, referring to the
AT&T long-term evolution technology.  T-Mobile introduced its most affordable voice, text and
data plans to date July 24, Daguerre said. The new plans include
pricing and service options and allow consumers to continue to
use mobile data on smartphones at reduced speeds after they
reach certain caps to avoid overage charges, he said.  Consumer Watchdog is one of almost 145 opponents to the
merger that include telecommunications rivals and consumer
groups.  Supporting Voices  The  Communications Workers of America , the International
Association of Teamsters and the AFL-CIO, joined by some
minority groups, have endorsed the deal. Balmoris said it’s
backed by more than 80 U.S. House members, 26 governors, 92
mayors and 11 state attorneys general.  Senators Herbert H. Kohl of  Wisconsin  and  Al Franken  of
 Minnesota , both Democrats, last month urged the FCC and the
 Justice Department  to block the transaction.  Lamar S. Smith, a Texas Republican who chairs the U.S.
House of Representatives Judiciary Committee, said in a letter
to federal regulators Aug. 2 that the transaction has benefits
that should be carefully considered by authorities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington 
at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 