-- 
Maternal Blood Test Can Tell Parents Fetus’s Sex After 7 Weeks

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-08-09T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/maternal-blood-test-can-tell-parents-fetus-s-sex-after-7-weeks.html
Blood tests that isolate  fetal DNA 
from a mother’s blood to detect gender work after seven weeks of
gestation and are better than ultrasound at ruling out some
genetic abnormalities, according to a report.  Ultrasound and urine tests are unreliable at determining
fetal gender at that stage of development, according to a review
of studies in the  Journal of the  American Medical Association .
Amniocentesis, which involves using a needle to remove and test
amniotic fluid, carries a risk of miscarriage and can’t be used
until at least 15 weeks, after the end of the first trimester.  The blood test can help women who are carriers of some
hereditary diseases, such as hemophilia, avoid unnecessary
invasive tests if the fetus is female. Males are more
susceptible to diseases on the  X chromosome  because they only
have one copy. Females have two, inherited from both parents,
and can rely on a healthy one if the other is damaged.  “If you know in the first trimester that there’s no male
DNA, that the fetus is female, then an invasive procedure isn’t
needed,” said  Diana Bianchi , a study author, and the executive
director for the  Mother Infant Research Institute at Tufts
Medical Center .  The tests are made by companies including San Diego-based
 Sequenom Inc. (SQNM) , and Consumer Genetics Inc. of  Santa Clara ,
 California .  The researchers, led by Stephanie Devaney at the  National
Institutes of Health  in Bethesda, Maryland, analyzed 57 previous
studies representing 3,524 male-bearing pregnancies and 3,017
female ones. They found that the tests, which detect the Y
chromosome in the maternal bloodstream, have a sensitivity of
95.4 percent.  Other Benefits  Others who may benefit from screening are those at risk for
congenital adrenal hyperplasia. Girls with the condition have
ambiguous genitalia,  according to  the National Institutes of
Health. That can be prevented in the womb by injecting the
mother with steroids. Boys don’t need the treatment, Bianchi
said. Knowing the sex early can cut down on the number of women
treated with steroids they don’t need, she said.  The newer tests probably won’t change sex-selective
abortion in the U.S., according to Bianchi.  “It’s a theoretical issue now, but people are already
doing it using ultrasound,” Bianchi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 