-- 
Hay Cheaper to Ship to China Than California Hits Dairies: Freight Markets

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-08-09T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/hay-cheaper-to-ship-to-china-than-california-hits-dairies-freight-markets.html
U.S. hay, the country’s third-largest
crop by value, is now cheaper to ship to China than to farmers
in central California, compounding shortages that mean record
prices for the  dairy industry .  Ocean freight costs about $30 a short ton (0.91 metric
tons) to send hay to Asia from  Los Angeles , compared with $53 to
truck the crop from southern California to the center of the
state, according to Greg Braun, the president of Border Valley
Trading LLC, a Brawley, California-based exporter. Prices for
alfalfa, the most common variety, surged 62 percent in a year
and reached a record $186 a ton in July,  government  data show.  Shipping lines hauling Asian goods to the U.S. are failing
to fill boxes on the return journey, driving down costs for the
containers used to carry bales of hay. That imbalance is
contributing to the biggest U.S. trade deficit in almost three
years and threatening earnings for dairies and cattle feedlots
that the government had expected would help the U.S. agriculture
industry generate record farm income of $94.7 billion this year.  “The hay and alfalfa shortage will get worse before it
improves,” said Tom Barcellos, 56, who owns the 800-cow T-Bar
Dairy in Porterville,  California  and farms 800 acres of hay.
“So much of the hay is going into the export market that it
takes hay away from California dairies.”  High-quality alfalfa hay fed to dairy cows in California,
the biggest milk producer, cost $320 a ton last week, compared
with $220 to $260 last year, Barcellos said. Corn is 63 percent
more expensive than a year ago on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Even after milk prices nearly doubled in two years, farmers are
still spending 65 percent of the value of their output on feed.
The ratio needs to be closer to 50 percent for them to be
profitable, Barcellos said.  Agriculture Industry  That highlights the divide in the U.S. agriculture industry
as a surge in income for grain growers erodes earnings for
livestock producers. U.S. dairy-farm income that more than
tripled last year probably will drop 13 percent in 2011, the
government estimates. Income for grain producers will jump 23
percent, after advancing 9.1 percent in 2010, as drought in
 Texas  drives a surge in crop prices.  “There will be dairies going out a business if the drought
spreads into the Midwest and drives corn prices higher,”
Barcellos said. “There are probably 40 percent of the dairy
producers that are still trying to regain equity they lost
borrowing money in 2009 just to survive.”  The U.S. exported a record 3.22 million tons of hay valued
at $825 million in 2010, and cargoes rose 11 percent in the
first five months of this year, U.S. Department of Agriculture
data show. About 80 percent of the crop was sent in containers
last year, according to  Newark , New Jersey-based PIERS UMB
Global Trade, which compiles data on U.S. shipments.  Fleet Growth  An index reflecting charges for six types of containers
fell 16 percent since the start of April, reflecting growth in
the fleet and concern the global economic recovery is slowing, a
gauge from the Hamburg Shipbrokers’ Association shows. The index
is still 65 percent higher than at the end of 2008.  World trade will expand 6.7 percent next year, compared
with 8.2 percent in 2011, the  International Monetary Fund  said
in a June report. Container volumes will grow 8.8 percent in
2012, compared with 9 percent this year, according to London-
based Clarkson Plc, the world’s largest shipbroker. About 90
percent of global trade moves by sea, the Round Table of
International Shipping Associations estimates.  The jump in container rates spurred owners to order more
vessels. The global fleet expanded 7.3 percent to 4,763 ships
since the end of 2008, data from Redhill, England-based IHS
Fairplay show. Orders at ship yards are equal to more than 27
percent of existing capacity.  Compounding Shortage  The export surge is compounding a hay shortage caused by
the worst-ever drought in Texas, the biggest U.S. grower. The
U.S. may harvest 57.605 million acres of hay in 2011, the fewest
on records going back to 1909, after farmers planted more
profitable crops, including corn, soybeans and wheat, USDA data
show.  Farmers in  Oklahoma  and in Texas may reap one alfalfa and
Bermuda-grass crop this year, compared with three normally,
according to Larry Redmon, a forage specialist at  Texas A&M
University  in  College Station . Grass and hay account for about
half of what cattle eat over their lifetime, with the rest
coming from grains such as corn and wheat.  With the rally in alfalfa-hay prices, the cost of the
commodity in southeast  Asia  is still 30 percent higher than a
year ago, even with the lower freight expense and a weaker
dollar, Border Vally Trading’s Braun said. That may curb demand,
he said.  “Alfalfa exports started to slow down in June because
buyers are searching for cheaper substitutes and signing shorter
contracts,” Braun said. “Everybody is worried about buying
inventory at these high prices.”  Asian Demand  The competition from overseas buyers is unlikely to weaken
any time soon. Anderson Hay & Grain Co. doubled hay exports in
the past decade and expects to do the same again by 2020, said
Mark Anderson, the president and chief executive officer of the
company with processing plants in California,  Washington  and
 Oregon . That growth will come from  Japan ,  South Korea ,  China  and
the  Middle East , he said.  Chinese demand for U.S. hay will strengthen because the
dairy industry is concentrating in the southeast and there is a
lack of rail and road needed to bring in feed from other parts
of the country, said Seth Hoyt, publisher of the Ione,
California-based Hoyt Report, which covers the hay markets in
western states.  Milk production in China almost tripled to 31.8 million
tons in the past decade, the USDA estimates. It would have to
expand about the same amount again to match output in the U.S.,
which has a population about a quarter of the size.  Farm Exports  Combined U.S. farm exports rose 18 percent to an all-time
high of $115.8 billion last year, led by a 34 percent surge in
demand from China, now the biggest buyer. That’s not enough to
stem the  U.S. trade deficit , which widened 15 percent to $50.2
billion in May, the highest since October 2008, according to the
U.S. Census Bureau.  President  Barack Obama  said in January 2010 he was setting
a goal of doubling U.S. exports in five years, a target that
would mean shipments reaching $3.14 trillion by 2015 from $1.57
trillion in 2009.  Global agricultural trade may exceed $1 trillion by 2020,
from an estimated $700 billion in 2011, Michael Dwyer, the
director of global policy analysis at the USDA, said last month.
That will be driven in part by demand from expanding middle-
class households, he said. Growth in such households outside the
U.S. may double to about 1 billion by 2020, Dwyer said.  Average Incomes  A key indicator for growth in hay exports is consumer
incomes in countries that don’t have the land or water to grow
their own crop, said Jeff Calaway, the president of Calaway
Trading Inc. in Ellensburg, Washington. Hay exports accelerated
once average incomes exceeded $15,000 in Japan and South Korea,
in line with meat and dairy consumption, he said.  “When people get a little more affluent, they spend more
money on improving their diets and dairy products make for a
better meal,” Calaway said. “There are tremendous supply
pressures from other crops that have reduced hay production.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  