-- 
Baltic Stocks Slump Most Since October 2008 on Recession Worry

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s   a n d   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 
2011-08-09T10:14:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/baltic-stocks-slump-most-since-october-2008-on-recession-worry.html
Stocks in Estonia,  Latvia  and
 Lithuania  fell for a sixth day, and were among the leading
decliners worldwide on worries that the rout in global financial
markets will stop the Baltic region’s recovery.  Latvia’s Nasdaq OMX Riga index fell 8.1 percent by 12:49
p.m. today, the fourth=biggest decline among 91 primary markets
worldwide tracked by Bloomberg. Lithuania’s OMX Vilnius index
declined 8 percent and Estonia’s OMX Tallinn index fell 7.5
percent, also among the eight biggest decliners.  Estonia and Lithuania were the two fastest-expanding
economies in the 27-member European Union in the first quarter,
at 8.5 percent and 6.9 percent respectively, helped by stronger
export demand in northern  Europe . Latvia’s GDP grew 3.5 percent.  “People are taking risk off the table across the board and
tiny markets like ours suffer in accord with bigger markets,”
said Peeter Koppel, private banking strategist with SEB AB in
Tallinn, in an e-mailed comment. “Something fundamental seems
to have changed in the minds of people and it seems like the
light at the end of the tunnel has officially been switched
off.”  The MSCI All-Country World Index, the gauge for developed
and emerging markets, fell as much as 2 percent today, extending
declines from this year’s high in May to 20 percent, the
threshold for a so-called  bear market .  Riga stocks have shed 7 percent this year, while OMX
Tallinn is down 22 percent and OMX Vilnius has lost 19 percent
compared with a 16 percent decline for the  MSCI EM Eastern
Europe (MXME)  index.  Ferry Company  Tallink Grupp, the biggest Baltic ferry company, which has
a 32 percent weighting in Tallinn, fell as much as 7 percent
today to 61 euro cents, the lowest level in a year.  Tallinna
Kaubamaja AS (TKM1T) , Estonia’s biggest retailer, shed as much as 6.5
percent to 4.35 euros.  TEO LT, Lithuania’s biggest communications company, fell as
much as 3.62 percent today to 0.532 euro, heading for the lowest
close since December 2009. Lesto AB, Lithuania’s electricity
provider, sank 13.1 percent to 0.57 euro, heading toward the
lowest close since Jan. 18.  “This is sheer panic, following similar behavior in key
global markets,” said Rimantas Janusevicius, head of securities
trading at Siauliu Bankas.  The Baltic indexes are small and trading can sometimes
trigger sharp moves in prices. The Lithuanian market has a value
of $5.1 billion, according to Bloomberg data. The Tallinn
bourse’s market value is $2 billion and Latvia’s is $1.2
billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  