-- 
Banco Comercial Rises After Report BNP May Make Acquisition

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 
2011-08-09T17:02:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/banco-comercial-rises-after-report-bnp-may-make-acquisition-1-.html
Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP) ,
 Portugal ’s second-biggest bank by market value, rose 3.3 percent
in Lisbon trading after a newspaper reported that  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA
may be interested in acquiring the company.  Banco Comercial climbed to 28.1 cents, boosting its market
value to 2.03 billion euros ($2.9 billion), after reaching 28.8
cents earlier today. Portugal’s benchmark  PSI-20 Index (PSI20)  declined
1 percent today.  Jornal de Negocios said BNP, France’s largest lender,
informed the Portuguese central bank that it’s interested in
buying Oporto-based Banco Comercial. BNP, based in Paris, wants
to expand in Poland, where Banco Comercial has a unit, according
to the newspaper report, which didn’t say how it obtained the
information.  Erik Burns, a Banco Comercial spokesman, declined to
comment on the report. BNP spokeswoman Ashling Cashmore in
 London  declined to comment on market speculation. The Bank of
Portugal said in an e-mail that BNP didn’t present a plan to buy
a “qualified holding” in Banco Comercial.  Banco Comercial said on July 27 it’s reviewing options for
its operations in Poland and hired Nomura Holdings Inc. and
Deutsche Bank AG to analyze the business. Chief Executive
Officer Carlos Santos Ferreira declined at the time to elaborate
on what the analysis of the  Bank Millennium SA (MIL)  unit in Poland
included or whether the bank planned to exit the Polish market.  Africa, Brazil  Banco Comercial wants to expand in Africa, where it already
operates in the former Portuguese colonies of Angola and
Mozambique, and is looking at countries including Sao Tome and
Principe and Namibia, Santos Ferreira said. The company also
plans to enter Brazil and  China  and strengthen its operation in
Portugal, he said.  In April, Portugal became the third euro-area country to
seek a bailout after Greece and Ireland. It will receive 78
billion euros under an agreement with the  International Monetary
Fund  and the European Union, and the plan earmarks 12 billion
euros for Portugal’s lenders.  The Bank of Portugal said on May 12 that the country’s
lenders must have a core Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 9
percent by the end of this year, as set out in the bailout
package. That ratio must be at least 10 percent by the end of
2012.  All of Portugal’s lenders passed the European Banking
Authority’s stress tests last month with core Tier 1 capital
ratios higher than the 5 percent minimum requirement.  Still, Portugal’s central bank said on July 15 that Banco
Comercial and  Espirito Santo Financial Group SA (ESF)  should reinforce
their capital so that they can exceed the minimum capital level
“even more comfortably” and established a reference level of 6
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  