-- 
Banks Should Make Living Wills to Plan for Failure, FSA Says

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-08-09T15:35:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/banks-should-draw-up-plans-to-reduce-impact-of-failure-fsa-says.html
Banks should prepare so-called living
wills setting out how they may be broken up with the least
possible disruption to the economy if they collapse, the U.K.
Financial Services Authority said today.  Lenders should be able to be shut down without roiling
markets or requiring public support, according to the FSA.
Failed lenders’ bondholders should also bear part of the costs
of closure, the regulator said, as part of plans to shield
taxpayers published on its  website .  Banks are warning that rules considered by global
regulators to limit the need for bailouts may harm the economic
recovery.  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial
services chief, published draft proposals in January to impose
losses on failing lenders’ bondholders -- a step that firms
including  Citigroup Inc.  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  have said
may make it more expensive for banks to raise funds.  Living wills “are largely untested,” because the U.K.
hasn’t had a major bank collapse since they have come under
consideration by regulators, Darren Fox, a financial services
lawyer at Simmons & Simmons LLP, said in a telephone interview.
“They require quite a bit of work and possibly restructuring to
design and implement and consequently can be intensive in terms
of the level of financial and human resources that they
absorb.”  Bank ‘Funerals’  Living wills should allow decisions on what to do about a
bank’s assets, depositors and creditors “to be taken and
executed in a short space of time,” the FSA said.  The wind-down plans may lead to “fundamental changes to
firms’ structures, business operations or systems,” the London-
based regulator said.  All lenders with assets greater than 15
billion pounds ($24.4 billion) will be expected to draw up
living wills.  The measures “will result in a monumental amount of work
for firms in order to document and arrange what are, in effect,
their own funerals,” Jake Green, a lawyer at Ashurst LLP in
 London , said in an e-mailed statement. “The FSA’s relatively
prescriptive guidance will most likely be welcomed although
there will clearly be a considerable amount of further
consultation.”  The FSA said that it would seek comments on the proposals,
with the intention of issuing binding rules “around the end of
the year.” It said “some banks” will have plans in place by
the middle of 2012.  ‘Financial Stability’  “The financial crisis highlighted that firms failed to
consider what they would need to do when faced with a potential
failure of their business models,” said Thomas Huertas, a
member of the FSA’s executive committee. “The result meant that
billions of pounds of public money was required to support
financial institutions around the globe and that financial
stability was put at risk.”  The Financial Stability Board, which brings together
watchdogs from the Group of 20 nations, has called for national
authorities to require banks to make plans that would ensure
their orderly winding down.  Lobby groups representing some of the world’s biggest
financial companies have called on U.S. regulators to clarify
what constitutes a “credible” plan for unwinding a complex
firm before requiring companies to file living wills.  Losses from failing banks should be “borne by firms and
their shareholders, capital providers, and unsecured creditors,
rather than the taxpayer,” the FSA said.  One option would be to empower authorities to write down
the amount owed to holders of a banks’ subordinated debt and
senior unsecured debt, or to convert the securities into
ordinary shares, the regulator said.  “In order to ensure continued proper functioning of
markets it might be necessary to exclude certain liabilities,
such as secured debt, from the list of those that could be
subject to conversion or write down,” the FSA said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 