-- 
Bank of America’s Plunging Stock Price Narrows Options for Chief Moynihan

-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-08-09T14:44:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/bank-of-america-s-plunging-stock-price-narrows-options-for-chief-moynihan.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s $33 billion
plunge in market value over the past week has stoked concern
that Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  needs to raise
capital even as his options for finding it narrow by the day.  The lender declined 34 percent in New York trading from
Aug. 1 through yesterday amid signs it may face more expenses
tied to soured mortgages, and that a stagnating U.S. economy
will curb revenue. The firm traded at 32 percent of its book
value, the lowest among the 10 largest U.S. lenders, reflecting
doubt about the true worth of Bank of America’s assets.  Moynihan, 51, repeatedly said this year that the  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based bank doesn’t need to raise capital, a move
that would reduce the value of the stake held by current
investors. Analysts who initially agreed with him including Mike
Mayo at Credit Agricole Securities USA now won’t rule out the
idea, and are speculating about parts that could be sold
including the Merrill Lynch units.  Raising capital at yesterday’s $6.51 share price would be
“a massively dilutive exercise,” said  Paul Miller , an analyst
at FBR Capital Markets with a “market perform” rating. “They
probably don’t need to right now, but every day there’s another
lawsuit out there that has merit,” he said, citing litigation
tied to subprime lender Countrywide Financial Corp. “How in the
heck are they going to settle all these suits unless there’s
some way to break away from the Countrywide liabilities?”  Stock Reacts  Bank of America, the largest U.S. lender, advanced 6
percent to $6.90 as of 10:01 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, recovering part of yesterday’s 20 percent
decline.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , ranked third by assets, advanced 9.1
percent to $30.49, retracing some of its 16 percent tumble. Both
needed taxpayer money to stay afloat during the worst of the
credit crunch, which they’ve since repaid. Bank of America faces
demands for refunds on home loans from U.S.-controlled firms
that still haven’t paid back their bailouts, such as  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  and Fannie Mae.  The two banks led yesterday’s 12 percent decline of the 24-
company  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  after  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the
credit of the U.S. government late last week, casting doubt on
federal backing for U.S. lenders and increasing speculation that
the world’s largest economy may stall into recession.  “The bias that exists, and that is gaining credibility, is
that a double-dip is ahead of us,” said Charles Peabody, an
analyst at Portales Partners LLC. “If that’s the case, then
something like Bank of America is going to have to raise
substantial equity externally.” Peabody rates Bank of America a
“buy,” and said he doesn’t think the firm will raise capital.  Swaps and Options  Signs of investor doubt appeared in financial markets
yesterday as credit-default swaps on Bank of America rose by the
most on record and reached the highest price since May 2009.
Options traders seeking protection from more losses pushed
prices on the contracts to the highest since April 2009 and
lifted volume on bearish bets to more than 1 million contracts,
five times the four-week average.  “This is a scary, scary market,” said  Gary Townsend , a
founder of Hill-Townsend LLC in  Chevy Chase ,  Maryland , who added
that he sold his fund’s 200,000 Bank of America shares before
they fell below $9. “To protect my investors and so I could
sleep at night, I thought it was wise to sell out of some things
that looked as though they had no support.”  Show of Support  The bank sought to assure employees and investors that the
company was strong in an internal memo, after Bank of America
disclosed Washington-based  Fannie Mae  stepped up demands for
refunds on soured home loans and New York-based insurer AIG sued
to recover more than $10 billion in related losses.  Bank of America Chief Financial Officer  Bruce Thompson  told
Nomura Securities International analysts that the firm won’t
need to raise capital to meet new international standards. The
company will comply by trimming expenses, selling assets and
letting some holdings run off, Thompson said, according to a
Nomura note to clients today.  Bank of America could avoid raising capital by spinning off
its Merrill Lynch wealth management and investment bank
operations, said  Joshua Rosner , an analyst at the New York-based
research firm Graham Fisher & Co. Such a move could occur in a
special dividend that would result in Bank of America returning
to being a more focused retail bank, he said.  In a “base-case sale,” the Merrill Lynch units acquired
in 2009 may be worth $50 billion, said Mayo at  Credit Agricole .
He downgraded Bank of America yesterday to “underperform” from
“outperform” because investors “can no longer rule out a
capital raise.”  Buy Recommendations  Keith Horowitz , an analyst at Citigroup, reiterated his buy
recommendation, saying there’s “significant value” in Bank of
America and that it doesn’t need to raise capital. Richard X.
Bove, an analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC, said on Bloomberg
Television the bank was “extraordinarily strong” and worth
buying at depressed prices.  Merrill Lynch is “absolutely core” to Bank of America’s
mission of serving individuals, companies and institutional
investors, Chief Financial Officer Bruce Thompson said last
month in an interview. Executives have cited the sales potential
of promoting products to clients among various divisions.  Moynihan’s Challenge  The AIG suit is the latest legal challenge faced by
Moynihan, who took over as chief executive in 2010. Last month,
former investors including BlackRock Inc. sued Bank of America
after opting out of a $624 million settlement tied to
Countrywide, which the bank bought in 2008. Plaintiffs said the
company misled shareholders about its finances and lending.  AIG contends Bank of America and businesses it took over
caused more than $10 billion in losses on $28 billion in
securities, according to the suit.  The bank is “aggressively taking action” to put mortgage
concerns behind it and has set aside about $18 billion for
expected loan repurchase costs through June 30, the bank said in
the Aug. 7 internal memo. Litigation and credit reserves are
also available for such costs, the bank said.  “Collectively, those reserves are sufficient to cover our
realistic estimate of the actual costs we expect to face in the
future,” the firm said in the memo.  As for the AIG litigation, Bank of America rejects the
insurer’s “assertions and allegations,” said Larry DiRita, a
spokesman. “AIG recklessly chased high yields and profits
throughout the mortgage and structured finance markets,” DiRita
said. “It is the very definition of an informed, seasoned
investor, with losses solely attributable to its own excesses
and errors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  