-- 
Brazil’s Energy Billionaire Batista Has $10 Billion Cash, No Need for More

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   H e l d e r   M a r i n h o
-- 
2011-08-09T21:17:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/batista-has-10-billion-in-cash-doesn-t-need-to-raise-money.html
Billionaire  Eike Batista ,  Brazil ’s
richest person, said his energy, mining and logistics companies
don’t need to raise money or sell assets after a market rout
reduced their value by 26 percent in a week.  “We had the financial discipline to maintain $10 billion
in cash,” Batista said in a telephone interview from  Rio de
Janeiro  yesterday.  Batista has lost about $5.8 billion in a week through
yesterday after his energy and mining startups plunged amid the
worst rout in the nation’s equity market since the 2008
financial crisis. Since Aug. 1, the value of his stock holdings
has fallen about 19 percent to 29.3 billion reais ($18.4
billion), according to data compiled by Bloomberg and EBX Group
Co., the holding company for most assets. The holdings recovered
2.66 billion reais of value today as share prices rebounded.  Batista became the world’s eighth-richest man on Forbes
Magazine’s list of billionaires this year by betting on a surge
in commodity demand. He said he expects emerging markets, led by
 China , to drive demand for oil, iron-ore and energy produced by
his companies. Batista said he won’t sell any assets.  “My machine will generate so much cash, even with lower
commodity prices, there’s no need to sell anything,” he said,
adding that the rules of the Brazilian stock exchange prevent
him from repurchasing shares of his companies. “It’s a shame I
can’t buy more.”  ‘Bottleneck Problems’  Investors have sold their shares in Brazilian firms since
the beginning of the year because of the country’s inflation
acceleration and the expected increases in corporate  capital
expenditures , Batista said.  “For international funds, Brazil became a country with
bottleneck problems,” he said. “But I think it’s a good
problem to have.”  EBX is a privately held company. OGX, Batista’s biggest
company by market value, had $11.9 million in cash and short-
term investments and total liabilities of $481.5 million as of
March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  OGX is projected to start producing oil by November and the
company is negotiating with possible refineries to sell the
commodity, Batista said during the interview.  OGX rose 1.16 reais, or 12.6 percent, to 10.36 reais at the
closing time in  Sao Paulo  trading, the biggest gain since March
2009. The jump reduced the stock slump so far this year to 48
percent, almost double the 26 percent of the Brazil benchmark
Bovespa index.  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, Batista’s iron-ore producer,
gained 8.1 percent to 6.44 reais, while his shipbuilding startup
 OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  rose 1.4 percent to 294 reais. The billionaire’s
port company  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3)  rose 5.8 percent to 3.28 reais and
his energy unit  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3)  gained 4.2 percent to 32.68
reais.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net 
Helder Marinho in Sao Paulo at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.ne  