-- 
Berkowitz Suffers Year’s Biggest Loss as Bank Stocks Hurt Funds

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-08-09T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/berkowitz-suffers-year-s-biggest-loss-as-bank-stocks-hurt-funds.html
Bruce Berkowitz and Bill Miller, two
money managers betting on a rebound in financial stocks,
suffered their biggest declines of 2011 yesterday in a slide
that worsened this year’s losses at their mutual funds.  Berkowitz’s $14.7 billion  Fairholme Fund (FAIRX) , and Miller’s $1.2
billion  Legg Mason Capital Management Opportunity Trust (LMOPX)  fell 8.8
percent and 11 percent, respectively, as the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index lost 6.7 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The funds lost 28 percent and 36 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a drop of 10 percent for the
 S&P 500 , including reinvested dividends.  “The banks haven’t dealt with their problems from the bear
market” of 2008, Geoff Bobroff, a mutual-fund consultant in
East Greenwich, Rhode Island, said in a telephone interview.
“The old model of buying them when they are down isn’t working
for value investors.”  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  sank 11 percent yesterday, the worst
showing for the 24-company benchmark since April 2009, and  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  plunged 20 percent as the government’s loss of
its AAA credit rating roiled markets. Financial stocks have been
driven lower by concern that the U.S. may be sliding back into
recession amid a weak housing market and low interest rates that
have cut the returns on securities the banks own, sending the
bank index down 28 percent this year.  Standard & Poor’s lowered the U.S. long-term rating one
level to AA+ after markets closed on Aug. 5, while keeping the
outlook at “negative” as the company becomes less confident
that Congress will end Bush-era tax cuts or tackle entitlements.  AIG, Citigroup  Tom Pinto, a spokesman for Miami-based fund parent
Fairholme Capital Management LLC, didn’t respond to an e-mail
request for comment after regular business hours, and Mary Athridge, a spokeswoman for Baltimore-based  Legg Mason Inc. (LM) ,
said the firm didn’t have any immediate comment.  Berkowitz, 53, who was named  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) ’s domestic
stock manager of the decade in January 2010, had about 74
percent of his fund’s equity holdings in financial companies as
of Feb. 28, according to Morningstar.  His top 10 holdings included New York-based insurer
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) , New York bank  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and Bank of America in Charlotte, North Carolina, which reached
52-week lows yesterday.  “Our intention remains to run from the popular and embrace
the hated where prices tend to reflect such mistrust,”
Berkowitz wrote in a report last week to investors, defending
his investments in financial stocks.  Berkowitz is scheduled to hold a conference call tomorrow
with Bank of America Chief Executive Officer Brian T. Moynihan.
“Skeptics are invited to participate,” Berkowitz said last
week in a statement announcing the event.  32% Weighting  Miller, 61, is best known for beating the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  for
a record 15 consecutive years through 2005 with his $3.1 billion
 Legg Mason Capital Management Value Trust (LMVTX) , before trailing the
U.S. benchmark in four of the next five years.  The smaller Legg Mason Capital Management Opportunity Trust
had 32 percent of its equity assets in financial stocks as of
June 30, Morningstar data show. Financials make up 15 percent of
the S&P 500 Index, according to Bloomberg data.  Top holdings at Capital Management Opportunity included
Hamilton, Bermuda-based insurer  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) , which is
down 42 percent this year, and Richmond, Virginia-based  Genworth
Financial Inc. (GNW) , off 57 percent.  In an April letter to shareholders, Miller wrote that
financial, health-care and technology stocks were selling more
cheaply relative to earnings than they have more than 90 percent
of the time in the past 60 years.  “As we enter the second quarter of 2011, we believe it is
a good idea to buy what’s on sale,” Miller wrote.  Miller’s larger fund, which had 22 percent of assets in
financial stocks as of June 30, lost 6.8 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  