-- 
Bernanke Provokes Most Dissents Since 1992

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J o s h   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-08-09T21:48:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/bernanke-time-commitment-on-benchmark-rate-spurs-most-dissents-since-1992.html
Ben S. Bernanke  lost the full
consensus of the Federal Open Market Committee as he reached for
another non-traditional tool and provoked three dissenting votes
in the process -- the most for a Federal Reserve chairman since
1992.  For the first time today, U.S. central bankers specified a
date for their commitment to low borrowing costs, saying the
benchmark rate will stay in a range of zero to 0.25 percent at
least through mid-2013. The new language replaces their prior
promise to keep rates low for an “extended period.”  Today’s decision shows that a Fed chief can govern with
more than two opposing votes, and it opens the door to bolder
action if necessary, said Roberto Perli, a former economist in
the Fed’s Division of Monetary Affairs, which helps craft the
language of the FOMC statements.  “We have reached the point where Bernanke is taking
control and saying we have to do the right thing no matter how
many people dissent,” said Perli, a managing director at
International Strategy & Investment Group in Washington. “It
shows the committee can move forward.”  Seven members of the panel favored the action.  Richard Fisher , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas ,  Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia and Narayana Kocherlakota of Minneapolis
voted no, preferring to maintain the existing “extended
period” language. The last time three FOMC voters dissented was
on Nov. 17, 1992, under Bernanke’s predecessor, Alan Greenspan.  History of Discomfort  Fed officials have a long history of discomfort with
pledges that limit their policy flexibility, minutes of their
meetings show. The deterioration of the economic outlook, and
the limits of monetary policy when  interest rates  are already
near zero, prompted Bernanke to opt for the time commitment --
even at the cost of three dissenting votes, said former Fed
Governor  Laurence Meyer .  “He must be unhappy about that, but with no regrets,”
said Meyer, now a senior managing director at Macroeconomic
Advisers LLC. “The chairman is the decider, and he will do
whatever he thinks needs to be done.”  Ten-year Treasury yields touched a record low, and U.S.
stocks rebounded from the worst drop since 2008. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index gained 4.7 percent to 1,172.53 at the 4 p.m.
close of trading in  New York . The 10-year yield fell as low as
2.03 percent before paring its decrease to 2.25 percent.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  lowered its economic
assessment, saying it now “expects a somewhat slower pace of
recovery over the coming quarters.” It left the door open for
more action, saying it discussed “the range of policy tools
available to promote a stronger economic recovery.”  More Action  The dissents may have weighed against stronger action for
now, said  Vincent Reinhart , a former director of the Monetary
Affairs Division. With the dissents out of the way, the FOMC
majority could push for further easing at the Fed’s annual
conference in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, later this month, he said.  “The dissents signal a strongly divided committee,” said
Reinhart, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise
Institute in  Washington . The Bernanke majority “did less than
they wanted to probably. But they set themselves up for Jackson
Hole to be a midcourse correction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  