-- 
Wilbur Ross Buys Assets on View World Market Slump Lost Touch With Reality

-- B y   S u s a n   L i   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-08-09T04:37:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/billionaire-ross-buys-assets-as-fear-not-economics-fuels-market-declines.html
Billionaire investor  Wilbur Ross  said
he is buying assets as the global market declines are being
driven by fear rather than economic reality.  There are plenty of assets one can buy today in emerging
markets including China and  India  as well as Japan and Ireland
which will prove attractive over the next several years, Ross,
who leads  WL Ross & Co. , told Bloomberg Television. He’s backing
companies in the marine petroleum transport and gas industries
in the U.S.  Ross joins Templeton Asset Management’s  Mark Mobius  and
Marc Faber, publisher of the Gloom, Boom & Doom report, who said
they see opportunities in oversold markets. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index
has declined almost 7 percent since Aug. 4, the day before
 Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S.’s long-term sovereign debt
rating that added to investor pessimism.  “Has the world really gotten 10, 12, 15 percent worse in
the last 48 hours? I don’t think so,” Ross said. “Buying
stocks at today’s prices over a couple of years’ time period
will prove to be a uniquely rewarding experience.”  S&P’s downgrade was “the right call” and “very
courageous,” Harvard University economist  Kenneth Rogoff  said
in a separate Bloomberg TV interview today. Other rating
companies are likely to follow suit in due time, Rogoff said.  WL Ross specializes in reorganizing distressed companies.
Ross, 73, founded the New York-based company in 2000 after
overseeing the bankruptcy practice at Rothschild Inc.  ‘Pecking Away’  The firm has been looking at the companies it holds and
that are available for trading, Ross said.  “We bought some on Friday, we bought some more today; we
will probably buy more when  New York  opens again tomorrow,” he
said, speaking from  Los Angeles , in the interview that was aired
in  Asia  today. “We’ve been pecking away as things decline.”  Mobius, executive chairman of Templeton’s emerging markets
group, said on Aug. 5 that equities in developing markets looked
more attractive amid the turmoil in global markets. Faber told
Bloomberg TV yesterday that the stock markets were “incredibly
oversold” and were “quite likely to bottom out today or
tomorrow and begin to rally.”  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index dropped 4 percent as of 1:11
p.m. Tokyo time today.  “Forced involuntary selling” by investors who face margin
calls from banks after the value of the stocks they held
declined sharply has contributed to market losses, Ross said.  There’s “a good probability” that the U.S. Federal
Reserve will institute another round of quantitative easing
policies to stimulate the economy as  oil prices  have fallen and
unemployment remains high, Ross said.  Fed Easing  The Fed is expected to act “more decisively” to stabilize
the economy, Rogoff said. A new round of easing policies should
come with clear statements that they’re trying to create
moderate inflation, instead of propping up the stock market, he
added.  Single-B-rated junk bonds performed worse than stocks
yesterday and may do so today, Ross said. The risk-averse
phenomenon usually indicates investors are getting close to
“the point of capitulation” and things can get back to being
more normal after that, he said.  Ross said he likes Ireland as the investment community has
misclassified the country, which doesn’t need structural reform
and only needs to repay the debt incurred during its banking
crisis.  China ’s property market is not headed for a crash akin to
the U.S. because of a shortage for housing, low loan-to-value
ratio and families’ willingness to step in to help repay
mortgages, he said. A bigger test for the government will be its
ability to contain rising food costs, which account for a large
percentage of household budgets in the low-per-capita-income
economy, he added.  --Hope Ngo in  Hong Kong . Editors: Andreea Papuc,  Malcolm Scott .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  