-- 
BlackBerry’s Fall From Executive Suite to London Looters May Bruise Brand

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-08-10T20:21:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/blackberry-s-fall-from-executive-suite-to-london-looters-may-bruise-brand.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerry
has become indispensable among executives for its easy-to-use
messaging service. That same feature is attracting looters in
Britain’s worst rioting since the 1980s.  In London, 16,000 officers on duty prevented a fourth night
of unrest even as disturbances spread to Manchester in the north
of the U.K. At least 770 people have been arrested in the
capital since Aug. 6, when the violence began after a local
black man, Mark Duggan, was shot and killed by police. Insurers
face a bill of more than 100 million pounds ($163 million), the
 Association of British Insurers  said yesterday.  Some rioters have used the free BlackBerry Messenger to
organize, police said, leading for calls for the service to be
suspended. The link between the unrest and the device may hurt
the BlackBerry brand, said  Jonathan Akwue , a director at the
social media unit of London-based Engine Group, a marketing firm
whose clients include  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and Sony Corp.  “The association is negative, and they’ve been blamed for
it,” Akwue said in a phone interview. “It is, though,
illogical to blame them. They didn’t cause the riots.”  RIM has been pushing demand from younger consumers to stave
off market share advances from newer devices such as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and handsets based on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system. More than a decade after its introduction,
Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM’s BlackBerry is now the most popular
phone for young adults and teens in the U.K., driven by the
messenger service, which offers a free alternative to texting,
telecommunications regulator Ofcom said this year.  Calls for Suspension  David Lammy, a member of the U.K. Parliament, yesterday
called for the suspension of BlackBerry service to prevent its
use among rioters. RIM said it is assisting  London  police, who
are investigating the use of the messaging service in organizing
riots. RIM representatives in  Canada  and the U.K. declined to
comment beyond that when contacted yesterday and didn’t respond
immediately when contacted by telephone in London today.  The prevalence of the devices among looters has led to a
more than 300-fold increase in online mentions of the messenger
service in relation to riots, with a third of those classified
as negative and 3 percent as positive, according to researcher
Brandwatch, which also monitors Twitter Inc. and Facebook Inc.  BBM was cited 27,000 times on Aug. 6 in online references,
rising to 31,000 on Aug. 8, according to  Brandwatch .  Police in Folkestone,  England , arrested yesterday a man and
a woman, both 18, for allegedly posting messages on Facebook
encouraging others to join the riots. Police in Kent, where the
city is located, asked residents to contact authorities if they
see similar messages posted on Twitter or BlackBerry Messenger.  Cheaper Prices  BlackBerry’s popularity among young consumers has been
helped by cheaper prices for more basic models, such as the
Curve, and availability on pay-as-you-go service providers
including  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   “They’ve got a reputational challenge to manage, which is
within their own existing user base,” London-based Akwue said.
“How do they manage that story as well as the association to
the riot which has come about because young people have chosen
the device?”  BlackBerry has fallen to the 25th most valuable global
brand from 14th last year, according to Millward Brown Optimor’s
2011  BrandZ  study.  Clean-Up Aid  The brand has also been used positively with communities
using the tool to organize to clean up smashed properties, said
 Peter Walshe , senior director at Millward Brown.  RIM said on its U.K. Twitter account on Aug. 8 that it had
engaged with authorities to “assist in any way we can.”  “It shows RIM is a good corporate citizen, helping the
mobile operators live up to their lawful intercept obligations
in the U.K.,” said  Leif-Olof Wallin , an analyst at Gartner Inc.
“It would be very detrimental to their brand to say that we’re
in the business of helping hooligans to do mischief. That’s not
what they want to be associated with.”  BlackBerrys and social-media websites also played a crucial
part in communications between protesters during the “Arab
Spring” in the  Middle East , which toppled the leadership in
Egypt and Tunisia and threatened the regime in  Libya .  “Everyone from all sides of London meet up at the heart of
London (central) OXFORD CIRCUS!! Bare SHOPS are gonna get
smashed up some come get some (free stuff!!!),” read one of the
BlackBerry messages provided to the  Guardian newspaper .  Specific Targeting  “It seems that there was specific targeting of certain
stores,” Chuka Umunna, opposition business minister for the
 Labour Party , said today in an interview with Maryam Nemazee on
Bloomberg Television’s The Pulse. “Places that sell sportswear,
like JD Sports, have been affected but also those that sell
electrical goods.”  RIM fell $1.02, or 4.4 percent, to $22.10 at 4 p.m. in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has dropped 62 percent
this year as newer phones such as the iPhone and devices based
on Android grab market share.  The company said in June that sales will drop this quarter
for the first time in nine years.  RIM is targeting less developed markets with lower-cost
phones and BlackBerry Messenger, a tactic that helped it become
the top smartphone brand in  Latin America  last year, according
to researcher IDC.  The company ran international advertising campaigns last
year with tag lines such as “Conversations come naturally on
BBM,” touting the service as a way to stay in touch more
cheaply than calling.  “Now you see the BlackBerry used for purposes that were
perhaps not intended by the designer,” said  Patrik Karrberg , a
researcher at the London School of Economics’ Information
Systems Innovation Group. “Young people understand it’s a
general purpose technology. It’s in the hands of the users, and
you can use it for good or for evil.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  