-- 
BlackBerry, Twitter Probed in London Riots

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-08-09T14:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/blackberry-messages-probed-in-u-k-rioting-as-police-say-looting-organized.html
BlackBerry smartphone maker  Research
in Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  said it is assisting London police with
investigating the use of the company’s messaging service by
rioters to plan disturbances, as they prepare for another night
of “mass disorder.”  “Police have got very extensive monitoring of the
Blackberry Messenger model,” Stephen Kavanagh, deputy assistant
commissioner of London’s Metropolitan Police, told reporters
today. “A lot of people who are seeing those messages are
forwarding them to police” who are “planning for mass disorder
again tonight.”  David Lammy, the U.K.’s intellectual-property minister,
today called for a suspension of BlackBerry service to prevent
its use among rioters to communicate plans, according to a
statement from his office. Kavanagh has said technology is being
used to organize people and undermine the police, who must adapt
their policing style to deal with it.  The riots and looting throughout the city, which began
Saturday following a protest over the shooting and killing of
Tottenham resident Mark Duggan by police, have resulted in
dozens of officers being injured and at least 525 arrests, with
people as young as 11 being apprehended for looting. After a
third night of violence, police will also review the role of
messages sent using other popular networking systems, including
Twitter Inc.  Research in Motion, based in Waterloo, Ontario, posted a
message on its official U.K. Twitter account last night saying,
“We feel for those impacted by the riots in  London . We have
engaged with the authorities to assist in any way we can.”  Less Encryption  BlackBerry messenger is “significantly less encrypted
compared to the BlackBerry e-mail that corporations are using,”
said  Leif-Olof Wallin , an analyst at Gartner Inc., based in
 Sweden . “Any kind of cryptographer should be able to crack it
without the involvement of RIM to be honest.”  Social media have been used to coordinate demonstrations
against Middle Eastern regimes, campaign for Saudi women’s right
to drive and for lower prices for cottage cheese in  Israel . In
the U.K., the use of Twitter and mobile phones by troublemakers,
may help authorities identify them and restore calm in the
capital, Steve O’Connell, a member of the Metropolitan Police
Authority, said by telephone yesterday.  “I would expect the Met to use every technology available
to get it sorted out, make the arrests, and bring peace back to
our neighborhoods,” O’Connell said yesterday. “The bad guys
were using these sites to target areas quickly. Small bands of
ne’er-do-wells were descending on high-quality stores to loot.”  Court Orders  Twitter spokeswoman Rachel Bremer declined to comment. The
San Francisco-based company’s policy is to require a subpoena or
court order before giving  law enforcement  private information
about users, according to  guidelines on its website .  U.K. prime minister  David Cameron , home secretary Theresa May and London mayor  Boris Johnson  cut short vacations to hold
emergency meetings with police.  Cameron told reporters today that 16,000 officers will be
deployed tonight, more arrests made and court processes sped up
to deal with the cases. Parliament is being recalled for an Aug.
11 session on the riots.  Last night police used “armored vehicles driving at speed
toward people,” to help disperse rioters, Kavanagh said, a
tactic the department had never used before.     Commanders can also
decide to use rubber bullets, an option that has been available
throughout the rioting, he said.  ‘Opportunistic Theft’  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said yesterday the
violence had nothing to do with the death of Duggan.  “It was needless, opportunistic theft and violence --
nothing more, nothing less -- and it is completely unacceptable,
and the people who have suffered are those who have lost their
businesses, shopkeepers who have lost their shops,” he said.  The  Independent Police Complaints Commission  is
investigating the shooting of Duggan.  “The IPCC awaits further forensic analysis to enable us to
have a fuller and more comprehensive account of what shots were
discharged, the sequence of events and what exactly happened,”
the commission said in a statement yesterday. It said in an
earlier statement during the day that “speculation that Mark
Duggan was ‘assassinated’ in an execution style involving a
number of shots to the head are categorically untrue.”  Duggan died of a single gunshot wound to the chest, an IPCC
investigator told a coroner’s inquest that  began today ,
according to the Press Association news service. The
investigation into his death could take four to six months,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  