-- 
Moynihan Says He’ll Stay as BofA CEO, Intends to Keep Merrill Lynch Units

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-08-09T22:28:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/bofa-s-moynihan-says-he-merrill-units-will-stay.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said he has no plans to step
aside as head of the biggest U.S. lender after presiding over a
43 percent share slide this year.  “We’re doing the right thing,” Moynihan said yesterday
during an interview with CNBC. While the bank may sell some
businesses to boost capital, Merrill Lynch units won’t be among
them because they’re too important to customers, he said.  Moynihan, 51, assured employees of the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based company in an Aug. 8 memo that the firm is sound
and getting control of mortgage costs after shares of the lender
plunged 20 percent. While Moynihan has said there’s no need to
raise capital, analysts including Mike Mayo at Credit Agricole
Securities USA say the idea can’t be ruled out.  CNBC anchor Maria Bartiromo listed a series of mistakes
Moynihan made this year, including raising expectations for a
dividend boost and “grossly underestimating” costs tied to
defective mortgages. She said that the “market is not believing
you” when Moynihan says Bank of America doesn’t need capital,
and asked the CEO how he would rebuild credibility.  “We will get it back by continuing to do what we’re
doing,” Moynihan responded. “Driving our customer-driven
business, continuing to perform in the market.”  Bank of America advanced 17 percent to $7.60 yesterday in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, its best one-day
showing since May 2009, recouping some losses from the day
before.  Fixing ‘Mortgage Mess’  Bank of America is “moving the mortgage mess behind us”
with settlements including an $8.5 billion deal with
institutional investors announced in June, Moynihan said. The
firm also sold mortgage-servicing rights last week, he said.  Servicing involves billing and collections on home loans
and handling foreclosures when borrowers don’t pay. Owning the
rights became less profitable as more homeowners fell behind on
payments to Bank of America, the largest U.S. servicer.  Moynihan cited an increase in deposits and said the firm
has more capital and reserves to withstand a downturn “than any
other time in our history.”  The firm isn’t “even going to ask” regulators for
permission to raise its 1-cent quarterly dividend for the time
being, as the economy has deteriorated, Moynihan said. Earlier
in the year, the  Federal Reserve  rejected the bank’s request for
a “modest” increase to the firm’s payout.  Taking Questions  Moynihan is scheduled to speak at 1 p.m. New York time
today in a public question-and-answer conference call hosted by
mutual fund manager  Bruce Berkowitz , whose Fairholme Capital
Management LLC held 92.6 million Bank of America shares as of
March 31. Berkowitz has promised to put the “toughest
questions” about the bank’s situation to Moynihan.  “The most important point to keep in mind is that our
company remains financially strong -- in particular, much
stronger than we were either during or coming out of the
economic downturn of 2008-9,” Moynihan said in his Aug. 8 memo.
“Most of the factors driving market volatility are beyond our
control. But for matters within our control, we are taking
action.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  