-- 
Bonds Rally as RBI Seen Pausing With Sensex at 14-Month Low: India Credit

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-08-09T05:12:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/bonds-rally-as-rbi-seen-pausing-with-sensex-at-14-month-low-india-credit.html
India ’s bonds are rallying as the
loss of America’s top credit rating sends domestic stocks into a
bear market and prompts investors to tear up forecasts for an
interest-rate increase as soon as next month.  Benchmark rupee-denominated 10-year notes in  Asia ’s third-
biggest economy rose for a sixth day today, the longest stretch
of gains since June, as the Sensex stock index dropped more than
20 percent from a November peak. Similar-maturity Russian debt
fell to the lowest in more than two weeks. Lower commodity
prices as the global economy slows may cut inflation, R. Gopalan, secretary of economic affairs at the  Finance Ministry ,
said on Aug. 7.  Traders in the interest-rate swap market are locking in
one-year rates at a discount to the central bank’s 8 percent
policy rate after demanding a premium a week ago, a reflection
of the turnaround in sentiment since  Standard & Poor’s  cut the
AAA rating on  U.S. debt . The  Reserve Bank of India  has raised
its lending rate 11 times since the start of 2010, the most of
any monetary authority among Asia’s major economies, to cool
inflation running at 9.44 percent.  “Considering how the world has changed so much in the past
week, there is a higher probability that the RBI won’t hike
rates in September,” Kumar Rachapudi, a Singapore-based
interest-rate strategist at  Barclays Capital , said in an
interview yesterday. “The lower the commodity prices are, the
better it is for India’s inflation.”  Yields on the 10-year bonds dropped seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 8.19 percent today, according to the
central bank’s trading system. The rate will “move toward”
8.15 percent by September, when the central bank meets next,
Rachapudi said.  Commodity Prices  India’s swap rate rose 31 basis points, the most in a year,
to 8.25 percent on July 26, the day the Reserve Bank announced
it was raising the repurchase rate by 50 basis points and
flagged inflation as its “dominant macroeconomic concern.” The
rate fell for a sixth day today, dropping 23 basis points to
7.55 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Similar swaps for  Russia , rated two levels higher than
India by Moody’s Investors Service, rose 17 basis points
yesterday.  Brazil ’s declined 19 basis points and China’s fell
nine.  Global energy prices, which the central bank cited as a
“major risk factor” for Indian inflation, have slumped since
July 26. Crude oil was trading at $78.56 a barrel today, down 14
percent this year. The S&P GSCI gauge of raw materials has
dropped 11 percent this month. Commodity products have a
weighting of more than 15 percent in India’s inflation basket.  ‘Two Drivers’  Increases in wholesale prices, which the central bank uses
to track inflation, have held above 8 percent since the start of
2010 even as policy makers raised borrowing costs 325 basis
points. The drop in global commodity prices will make the
 Reserve Bank ’s task of fighting inflation easier, according to
Mumbai-based IDBI Federal Life Insurance Co.  “India’s inflation has two drivers: global commodity
prices and domestic supply side issues,” Aneesh Srivastava, the
Mumbai-based chief investment officer at IDBI Federal that
oversees about $555 million, said in an interview yesterday.
“The domestic constraints will take some time to sort out but
as far as global commodity-led inflation is concerned, we are
likely to see an improvement. So my sense is that the RBI should
pause in September.”  Should the Reserve Bank hold rates at its review on Sept.
16, the 10-year bond yield will likely fall to around 8.10
percent, Srivastava said.  Sliding Sensex  The yield on the nation’s 7.8 percent notes due April 2021
dropped fell 15 basis points last week, the most since the five-
day period ended June 3. The difference in yields between the
securities and similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries has shrunk to
593 basis points from this year’s high of 600 reached on Aug. 4.  India’s rupee notes have returned 3.2 percent this year,
outperforming four regional peers, according to 10 local-
currency Asian debt markets excluding  Japan  monitored by HSBC
Holdings Plc. Securities in China earned 1.1 percent and
 Thailand  1.3 percent, while those in  Taiwan  advanced 2.2
percent.  The Sensex dropped 1.7 percent to 16,695.78 today. It fell
as much as 3.3 percent in intraday trading, extending losses
from a Nov. 5 peak to more than 20 percent. A decline of 20
percent or more signals a  bear market  to some investors.  Rupee Drops  The rupee dropped for a sixth day today, its longest run of
losses since March 2009. The central bank said in a statement
yesterday that it would provide “adequate rupee and forex
liquidity” to curb “excess volatility” in exchange rates. The
currency slid 0.5 percent to 45.20 per dollar today, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While a drop in global commodity prices will damp local
price pressures, the monsoon season is a wild card for Indian
inflation, according to DSP Blackrock Investment Managers Pvt.
The season runs from June to September and accounts for 80
percent of the nation’s annual rainfall. Farmers still rely on
rain as the main source of irrigation for their crops. Farm
products account for about a fifth of the $1.7 trillion economy.  “Inflation will continue to remain a challenge,” Dhawal Dalal, the Mumbai-based head of fixed income at DSP Blackrock
Investment Managers that oversees $3.8 billion in assets, said
in an interview yesterday. “We will get clarity in October on
what impact the monsoon will have on food prices. Inflation is
likely to remain sticky and north of 9 percent.”  ‘Positive Impact’  The cost of protecting the debt of government-owned  State
Bank  of India, seen as a proxy for the nation, has increased as
the economy slowed. India’s gross domestic product rose 7.8
percent in the three months ended March, the least in five
quarters and behind  China  at 9.7 percent, government data show.  Credit-default swaps for State Bank have surged 22 basis
points this month to 221 basis points, according to data from
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The outlook for inflation in India has improved with the
current turmoil in the markets, according to Nomura Holdings
Inc.  “The fall in global commodity prices and signs that
domestic growth is moderating will have a positive impact on
India’s inflation,”  Sonal Varma , a Mumbai-based economist at
Nomura, said in an interview yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Islamabad at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  