-- 
BP Delaying Wells Worsens Slump in Most Profitable Fields

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-08-09T15:43:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/bp-delaying-wells-worsens-slump-in-most-profitable-fields-1-.html
BP Plc’s drilling delay in the  Gulf
of Mexico  means production will keep declining at its most
profitable fields as the company spends $2.4 million a day to
keep rigs in the region idle.  While executives say BP is making progress toward resuming
drilling in the Gulf, the company hasn’t submitted an
application for a permit to start a new well since President
Barack Obama’s moratorium was lifted on Oct. 12, according to
two people with knowledge of the matter. They declined to be
identified because it’s not public information.  BP’s output in the Gulf may drop as much as 30 percent a
year without the wells needed to boost production at existing
fields, according to Macquarie Capital Ltd. For Chief Executive
Officer Bob Dudley, restoring BP’s position in the region, where
the company is the largest producer, is central to reviving
shares that are trading 38 percent the level before last year’s
spill disaster.  “It’s critical for Dudley to get production back up in the
Gulf,” said  Fadel Gheit , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in  New
York . “Those barrels are worth double or triple the value of
oil from anywhere else in the world. It’s the crown jewel of the
company.”  BP closed up 0.6 percent in London after earlier falling to
an 11-month low. Rival  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  rose 2.6 percent as
of the 4:30 p.m. end of trading.  Gulf Profits  BP earns a profit of about $30 a barrel in the Gulf of
Mexico when  oil prices  are at $100, Gheit estimates. In West
Africa or the U.K.  North Sea , the second-most profitable
regions, the company makes $15 to $20 a barrel in profit, he
said.  Robert Wine , a BP spokesman, declined to disclose
profitability in different regions.  Dudley said July 26 that BP is eager to “get back to
work” in the Gulf, working closely with regulators, and that
the pace of BP’s return depends on getting approvals for new
wells. He pointed out that the U.S. Bureau of Ocean Management,
Regulation and Enforcement says BP won’t be held to a higher
standard than its peers in its applications.  Waiting for permits also means paying owners to keep
drilling rigs idle. Transocean Inc., owner of the Deepwater
Horizon rig that exploded and sank last year, is getting paid
about $1.4 million a day by BP, making it the biggest
beneficiary of keeping vessels on standby, company filings show.  Suing Transocean  BP filed a suit against Transocean in April, claiming the
company is responsible for part of the $41 billion bill for the
Macondo well blowout. Dudley reiterated last month that
Transocean should contribute.  Since the moratorium was lifted,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  has received
three deepwater well approvals.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  has had four
deepwater wells approved, while Shell has gained permission for
five. Getting a permit to drill in deep water is taking between
three days and four months, according to data on the  bureau’s
website .  While BP hasn’t applied to drill any of its own wells, it
is a partner in several fields that have been granted permits.
That includes the Europa field, operated by Shell, that received
a permit for drilling last week.  In the year before the April 20 Macondo accident, BP
received more new deepwater well approvals than any other
company, according to information from the bureau. BP’s output
in the region has dropped to 250,000 barrels a day from about
390,000 barrels a day before the spill.  Output ‘Uncertainty’  “Production could go down 20 percent a year without new
wells,” said  Jason Gammel , an analyst at Macquarie Capital Ltd.
in  London . “The declines could be as high as 30 percent. It’s a
key uncertainty for BP.”  BP has five rigs under contract in the Gulf of Mexico, none
of which are drilling. Transocean owns GSF Development Driller
II and Development Driller III, leased at $580,000 a day and
$403,000 a day, according to a company filing from the rig
owners. BP is also leasing the Discoverer Enterprise, which is
still in port after helping in the spill cleanup and is under
contract to BP at $435,000 a day. It will be handed back to
Transocean in August 2012.  BP has signed up the Ensco DS-3 for $480,000 day, according
to the fleet report. Ensco didn’t return calls for comment. BP
is leasing  Seadrill Ltd. (SDRL) ’s West Sirius rig at $474,000 day,
Seadrill spokeswoman Hilde Waaler said.  Slow Permits  “It’s taking longer than we thought to bring the Gulf back
to full capacity,” said Kim Andre Uggedal, an analyst at Terra
Markets AS in Oslo. “Drillers are talking about the end of 2012
or the middle of 2013 before permits are approved as quickly as
they were before the spill.”  Transocean spokesman  Guy Cantwell  declined to comment on
rig fees. BP reported last week that it took a $300 million
charge for idle rigs in the Gulf and other costs in the second
quarter. BP spokesman Wine declined to comment on how much of
the charge was related to the rigs.  Transocean published an 854-page report on the Macondo
blowout on June 22 that largely blames BP for the accident. The
company hasn’t admitted to any mistakes in the incident that
killed 11 workers and spewed almost 5 million barrels of crude
into the Gulf.  Falling Production  BP’s problems in the Gulf have contributed to a global
slump in output, which sank 11 percent in the second quarter
after the company sold off $25 billion of assets in mostly
producing fields. It also had longer turnarounds and maintenance
periods as it implements higher safety standards and said
production is likely to average 3.4 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day this year, the lowest since 2001.  In contrast to BP’s rigs on standby, Chevron Corp. has nine
rigs in the Gulf, all drilling.  Apache Corp. (APA)  has five rigs that
are all active, and Shell has five Gulf rigs drilling, according
to information from ODS Petrodata and the companies. The rig
utilization rate in the Gulf is now 54 percent, similar to a
year ago, compared with 78 percent worldwide.  Melissa Schwartz, a spokeswoman for Bureau of Ocean
Management, reiterated that BP isn’t being judged by different
standards than other operators and said the agency welcomed BP’s
plans, announced July 15, to implement a higher standard of
drilling rules. BP has so far only gained permission to modify
an existing well, she said.  BP said that it will now only use blowout preventers on the
Gulf floor with at least two so-called blind shear rams, which
seal wellbores by cutting through the drill pipe. Transocean’s
blowout preventer for the Deepwater Horizon had one blind shear
ram that failed to cut off oil and gas from the well. BP will
also set up a real-time drilling operations center in Houston.  “Getting the Gulf of Mexico back on stream is a four-star
priority for BP,” said  Peter Hutton , an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets  in London. “There’s an awful lot to do and they’re not
in a position to be as convincing as investors would like them
to be. It’s likely to be the end of the year before we see any
progress.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  