-- 
Brazil’s Crystal Sugar Tops Export Profit by 15%, Cepea Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-08-09T08:46:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/brazil-s-crystal-sugar-tops-export-profit-by-15-cepea-says.html
Crystal sugar sales in Brazil were 15
percent more profitable than exports last week as prices fell at
a faster pace in  London  and  New York , according to Cepea, a
University of Sao Paulo research group.  White, or refined sugar, fell 6.1 percent on NYSE Liffe in
London last week, while the raw variety slid 7.6 percent on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York. Crystal sugar, which accounts for 68
percent of all sugar sold within Brazil, dropped 0.6 percent to
69.18 reais ($42.51) a 50-kilogram (110-pound) bag in the
period, Cepea data showed. Sales of the variety were 8 percent
more profitable in the previous week, according to Cepea.  “After moving up for almost two months, even in the
harvest peak period, crystal sugar prices weakened over the last
week in the Sao Paulo market,” Cepea analyst Heloisa Lee
Burnquist said in a report yesterday. “The weakening of prices
in the Brazilian market was also attributed to decreases of
values in the international market.”  Supplies of crystal sugar remained limited, Burnquist said,
adding that higher prices curbed demand. “A few number of mills
have decided to reduce slightly their prices in an attempt to
attract buyers,” she said.  Sales of the variety were 58 percent more profitable last
week than anhydrous ethanol, the type blended into gasoline, and
73 percent more advantageous than sales of the hydrous kind,
used in flex-fuel cars, Cepea said. Both ethanol and sugar are
made from sugar cane in  Brazil .  Crystal sugar has an International Commission for Uniform
Methods of Sugar Analysis level of between 130 and 180,
according to the Cepea website. A lower level corresponds to a
higher degree of whiteness. Refined sugar futures traded on NYSE
Liffe call for an ICUMSA level of 45.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 