-- 
Brazil to Harvest Soybeans Sooner Than Normal, Oil World Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-08-09T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/brazil-to-harvest-soybeans-sooner-than-normal-oil-world-says.html
Soybean farmers in  Brazil , the
world’s second-biggest exporter of the oilseed, will probably
harvest the crop earlier than normal in the states of Mato
Grosso do Sul and Parana next year, Oil World said.  Growers will start collection about two weeks early as long
as weather conditions are normal, making soybeans available
sooner than usual and allowing corn to be planted earlier,
according to a report today from the Hamburg-based researcher.
About 35 percent of the corn crop in Parana was lost to frost,
Oil World said.  “An earlier harvesting of soybeans will subsequently allow
an earlier start of second-crop corn plantings that follow
soybeans in an effort to accomplish an earlier maturing of the
corn crop to prevent a repetition of this year’s severe frost
damage,” the researcher said.  Soybean futures have dropped 6.9 percent this year in
Chicago trading as demand for supplies from domestic users and
China declines from last year.  In  Argentina , wheat planting that started last week will be
smaller than expected, Oil World said. Growers will sow about
4.6 million hectares (11.4 million acres) with the grain, less
than the 4.7 million forecast by the government, according to
the report.  Sunflower growers who also recently began seeding will
plant the crop on 1.86 million hectares, up 10 percent from 1.69
million a year earlier, the researcher said.  “It remains to be seen whether this will be really carried
out despite the forthcoming price pressure, resulting from the
sunflower-seed record crops and prospective significant increase
in export supplies from the Black Sea origins from October
onward,” Oil World said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 