-- 
British Officials Say Police Budget Cuts Are Unrelated to Spread of Unrest

-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-08-09T11:22:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/british-officials-say-police-budget-cuts-are-unrelated-to-spread-of-unrest.html
U.K. Home Secretary Theresa May
defended plans to cut more than 30,000 police jobs in the next
four years as rioting flared across  London  for a third night and
spread to major cities including Birmingham and Liverpool.  Spending on policing can be cut without jeopardizing
“frontline” services in Britain’s deficit-reduction effort,
May said in an interview with BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program.
Prime Minister David Cameron today recalled members of
Parliament from their August leave to address the unrest.  The violence and looting have extended to areas adjacent to
the Olympic Park in East London where the games will be held
next year. “They may well to be forced to rethink the cuts to
the police,” Howard Elcock, professor emeritus of government at
Northumbria University, said in an interview from Newcastle,
England. “By next spring we’ll probably be in a situation where
there’s a lot of social discontent leading to social unrest
because of the cuts.”  Britain is facing the deepest spending cuts since World War
II, with the  Home Office , which controls funding for the police,
set to see its budget reduced by a quarter by 2015. Police are
on course to cut 34,100 jobs, taking the workforce back to its
2003 level, according to the body that monitors their
performance.  Cameron’s Conservative-led government has staked its
reputation on its plan to all but eliminate a  budget deficit 
that swelled to 11 percent of gross domestic product in the
aftermath of the financial crisis and recession.  The 80 billion pound ($131 billion) program of spending
cuts involve the loss of more than 300,000 public-sector jobs
and 18 billion pounds of welfare savings, including a three-year
freeze of child-benefit payments.  Police Cuts  The Home Office, with a budget of almost 10 billion pounds,
is among the departments hardest hit. Her Majesty’s Inspectorate
of Constabulary said in a report last month that a third of the
cuts to police numbers had already taken place, with the aim of
saving 1.6 billion pounds by 2015. The number of frontline
officers will fall by 2 percent by March 2012.  “They’re concerned about their future, in terms of pay and
conditions,” John Tully, vice chairman of London’s Metropolitan
Police Federation, said in an interview on Sky News today.
“Morale is quite low, but despite all of that, their dedication
to the role is still there and they’re putting themselves in
harm’s way to protect the people of London.”  There are almost 2.5 million Britons out of work, with an
 unemployment rate  in the three months through May of 7.7
percent. The possibility of a worsening job market is weighing
on consumers, who are already seeing their incomes squeezed by
rising prices for everything from food to car insurance.  ‘Credible Plan’  “The government has had to ensure that it has had a
credible plan to deal with the deficit,” May said today. “That
is what we have had. You can see from the fact that the U.K. is
not one of those countries named in terms of economic
difficulties, that is important.”  Police have made more than 200 arrests, and Cameron cut
short his Italian holiday to return to Britain. He said there
will be 16,000 officers on the streets of London tonight, and an
emergency session of the House of Commons will be held Aug. 11.
The riots started after a local man of Afro-Caribbean descent,
Mark Duggan, was killed in a police shootout in the north London
suburb of Tottenham.  “I wouldn’t like to say that’s related to government
cuts,” Matt Hopkins, lecturer in criminology at the University
of Leicester in Leicester,  England , said in an interview. “But
there is a growing level of anger and frustration across the
country at the austerity policies that are being put in place by
the government. They might have to have a rethink.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan at   jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  