-- 
Cablevision Slumps After Profit Trails Estimates on Video-Customer Losses

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-09T21:23:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/cablevision-profit-trails-estimates.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , the fifth-
largest U.S. cable provider, slumped the most in more than 2 1/2
years in New York trading after reporting profit that missed
analysts’ estimates amid subscriber defections.  Net income rose to $87.8 million, or 31 cents a share, the
Bethpage, New York-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts predicted earnings, excluding some costs, of 40 cents a
share, the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Cablevision competes in about 40 percent of its coverage
area with  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  for television, phone and
Internet subscribers, according to John Tinker, an analyst at
Maxim Group LLC in New York. Promotions from Verizon in the
quarter, including an offer for a free DVR for life, and a weak
housing market may have caused more defections from Cablevision.  “Verizon is becoming very aggressive on the promotional
side,” Tinker said. “We’re in a tougher economic environment
and competition is biting.”  The company lost 23,000 video customers, after gaining
75,900 a year earlier. Jason Bazinet, an analyst at Citigroup
Inc., had estimated the number of customers would be little
changed. Total customers, including Internet and phone users,
fell 17,000 from a year ago, including additions from Bresnan
Communications LLC, which Cablevision acquired last year.  Cablevision slid $2.50, or 13 percent, to $17.02 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading at 4:15 p.m., for the
biggest drop since Dec. 1, 2008. It had declined 18 percent this
year before today.  Cord-Cutting  Broadband subscribers grew by 5,000 in the quarter, missing
analysts’ average estimate of 23,000, according to Marci Ryvicker, an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York.  Cablevision joins other cable providers in reporting
subscriber losses amid a sluggish economy and competition from
online-video rivals such as Netflix Inc. and Hulu LLC.  Time
Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  lost 130,000 residential video subscribers in
the second quarter and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  dropped 238,000.  Sales of new U.S. homes unexpectedly declined in June as
job growth has slowed. Purchases dropped 1 percent to a 312,000
annual pace, a three-month low, according to Commerce Department
statistics last month. The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.3 percent
pace in April-June following revised growth of 0.4 percent in
the first three months of the year that was slower than
previously estimated.  “We haven’t seen any uptick in economic activity in the
housing market, which does impact our business,” Cablevision
Chief Operating Officer Tom Rutledge said on a conference call.  ‘Credit Concerns’  Sales at Cablevision rose 9.1 percent to $1.69 billion. The
majority of Cablevision’s cable assets are located around New
York, although the Bresnan acquisition added networks in
 Colorado ,  Montana ,  Wyoming  and  Utah . Net income a year earlier
was $60.9 million, or 20 cents a share.  Excluding AMC Networks Inc., which Cablevision spun off
June 30, profit from continuing operations was 24 cents,
trailing the estimate of Richard Tullo, an analyst at Albert
Fried & Co. in New York, by two cents.  “The cable companies aren’t aggressively going after
clients because of credit concerns,” said Tullo, who has a
“market perform” rating on the shares.  Cablevision repurchased 4.2 million Class A shares in the
quarter for $143.9 million. The company won’t pursue any
immediate acquisitions, Chief Financial Officer Gregg Seibert
said, citing tight credit conditions. Cablevision said it has
the capacity to do more share buybacks.  Streaming Rights  The company also said it’s in “active discussions” with
programmers to give customers access to TV shows on mobile
devices outside the home. Cablevision has acquired some of the
rights and will make content available to customers “in the
relatively near future,” Rutledge said.  Unlike many competitors, Cablevision doesn’t offer Time
Warner Inc.’s HBO Go application, which allows HBO subscribers
to watch programming outside the home.  Keith Cocozza , a Time
Warner spokesman, wasn’t available to comment.  Cablevision also said it has developed iPod Touch and
iPhone applications that allow customers to watch live TV on
those devices in the house. Cablevision introduced its iPad
application in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  