-- 
California Risks ‘Drastic’ Cuts as Receipts Miss Forecast, Controller Says

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-08-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/california-revenue-falls-10-3-short-of-forecast-in-july-on-expired-taxes.html
California  faces “drastic” cuts to
universities, schools and social programs if revenue continues
to trail budget forecasts, the state controller said after July
collections fell short by about 10 percent.  A series of “triggers” written into the most-populous
state’s $86 billion general-fund budget would cut spending on
universities, home care for seniors and the disabled, libraries
and other programs if revenue falls $1 billion short of plan. A
$2 billion gap would mean a seven-day cut in the school year and
an end to busing subsidies.  “This is what we’ve been fearful of,” Debra Brown, a
lobbyist for the California School Boards Association, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “This brings us a half-
billion dollars closer to the trigger going off.”  Revenue in July, the first month of the 2012 fiscal year,
was $538.8 million less than forecast, according to figures
released yesterday by Controller John Chiang.  “The cuts we have already made have really hurt students,
the elderly, the poor and others,”  Gil Duran , a spokesman for
Governor  Jerry Brown , said by telephone. “A further round of
cuts is not something we would like to see happen.”  California joins states from  Maine  to  Washington  facing
possible budget cuts as the fiscal year begins following
projected gaps totaling $527 billion from 2008 to 2013. Cities
including  Chicago , the third largest in the U.S. by population,
also are preparing for cuts as federal subsidies decline.  Ohio Bracing  Ohio Governor John Kasich has asked aides to monitor
collections to determine whether the state needs to reduce
planned spending. Revenue for July trailed the budget forecast
by $16 million, or 1.3 percent, according to preliminary data.  In  Michigan ,  tax revenue  from May to July climbed almost 11
percent from the same period in 2010, according to legislative
 data . Collections may weaken if the  U.S. economy  slows,
according to the state’s House Fiscal Agency in Lansing.  Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  said July 29 that the city’s
projected deficit had widened to $635.7 million and that cuts
were needed. Maine and Washington have also begun mapping out
further reductions, according to local newspaper reports. In 26
states, tax receipts are projected to rise less than 5 percent
in fiscal 2012, and will fall in six, the  National Conference of
State Legislatures  said yesterday in a San Antonio meeting.  California Impasse  Brown signed California’s budget in June after failing to
persuade Republican lawmakers to agree to let voters decide
whether to extend expiring tax and fee increases.  In July, the retail-sales levy dropped to 7.25 percent from
8.25 percent and vehicle-registration fees fell to 0.65 percent
of value from 1.15 percent as the temporary measures ended.  Brown’s budget cut spending by $12 billion and counted on a
recovering economy to deliver $4 billion in extra tax  revenue .  “That $4 billion is never going to materialize,”
Christopher Thornberg of Los Angeles-based Beacon Economics LLC
said by mobile phone yesterday. “These numbers show that. We’re
going to see a budget battle in three to four months.”  The Association of California School Administrators got
state assurances that the budget’s revenue forecast looked good
in June, said Bob Wells, the group’s executive director. Schools
have lost $20 billion in aid during the past three years and
have held back on additional spending cuts, he said.  “That no longer looks prudent,” Wells said by telephone.  Based on the latest numbers, administrators may plan more
cuts in teachers and support workers, Wells said. Employment
expenses account for 90 percent of their costs, he said.  California sales and use taxes trailed the budget forecast
by $139.4 million, or more than 12 percent, Chiang said.
Receipts from corporate levies missed by $69.5 million, or 19
percent, he said. Personal-income taxes produced $89 million, or
2.9 percent, more than estimated.  “While we hope for better news in the months ahead, every
drop in revenues puts us closer to the drastic trigger cuts that
could be imposed next year,” Chiang said in a separate
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in  Sacramento  at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net ; and Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at
   cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  