-- 
Centerbridge, TPG Said to Be Among Bidders for Anglo Irish Property Loans

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-08-09T23:01:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/centerbridge-tpg-said-to-be-among-bidders-for-anglo-irish-property-loans.html
Investor groups led by Centerbridge
Capital Partners LLC,  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Lone Star 
submitted initial offers for  Anglo Irish  Bank Corp.’s $9.65
billion of U.S. property loans, according to five people with
knowledge of the sale process.  TPG Capital, Cerberus Capital Management LP and Colony
Capital LLC were among the bidders for all or some of the 248
loans, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
auction is private. Cerberus is working with Oaktree Capital
Group LLC and LNR Property LLC while TPG is pairing with Lubert-
Adler Partners LP and Pacific Investment Management Co.,
according to the people. Blackstone is partnering with  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., and Centerbridge is
teaming with  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , Paulson & Co.
and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the people said.  Anglo Irish, based in Dublin, is seeking to unload the
loans, backed by buildings from Manhattan to Beverly Hills,
California, after being nationalized two years ago. The
competition underscores the appetite for real estate by private-
equity firms that are pushing deeper into acquisitions as they
seek profits beyond corporate buyouts.  Eastdil Secured LLC and  FTI Consulting Inc. (FCN)  are advising
Anglo Irish on the sale, the people said. The portfolio has been
divided into eight pools, with the largest consisting of $2.26
billion of distressed office and industrial loans, according to
an offering document from Eastdil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  