-- 
McGraw-Hill, Moody’s Risks Rise After S&P Cut: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-08-09T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/mcgraw-hill-moody-s-risks-rise-after-s-p-cut-chart-of-the-day.html
Standard & Poor’s  increased the risk
of investing in the bond-rating service’s owner and its biggest
competitor by taking away the U.S.’s AAA designation, according
to  Peter Appert , a Piper Jaffray & Co. analyst.  The CHART OF THE DAY compares this year’s performance of
McGraw-Hill Cos., S&P’s parent company, and Moody’s Corp. with
the  S&P 500 Index . Both are higher for the year even after they
sustained bigger losses yesterday than the index, which tumbled
6.7 percent in its sharpest drop since December 2008.  McGraw-Hill and Moody’s face two threats because S&P cut
the U.S. government to AA+, Appert wrote yesterday in a report.
The first is greater regulatory scrutiny of the rating industry,
which has been criticized for flawed assessments of mortgage-
backed securities during the past decade’s housing bubble.  “The perception in  Washington  that the rating agencies
have too much power and must be ‘reined in’ will undoubtedly by
reinforced by S&P’s decision,” he wrote.  The second risk is that bond sales may become more volatile
as the lower rating helps slow economic growth, the report said.
Assuming that occurs, revenue and earnings at McGraw-Hill and
Moody’s would become less predictable as well.  These issues weren’t big enough to prompt Appert to reduce
his ratings on McGraw-Hill and Moody’s. He has the equivalent of
a “buy” recommendation on both stocks, which he sees as cheap
by comparison with projected earnings. Yesterday’s closing
prices were about 11.5 times his profit estimates for next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net 
MHP US <Equity> CN
MCO US <Equity> CN 