-- 
China ADRs Gain on Fed Policy Statement, Domestic Growth Outlook

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-08-09T22:35:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/china-adrs-gain-on-fed-policy-statement-domestic-growth-outlook.html
China ’s American depositary receipts
rose, ending five days of declines for the benchmark index,
after the  Federal Reserve  pledged to keep benchmark U.S.
interest rate at a record low at least through mid-2013.  The Fed also said it is prepared to use a range of other
policy tools “as appropriate.” Three of the Federal Open
Market Committee’s members dissented, preferring to maintain the
pledge to keep rates low for an “extended period” without a
specific timeframe.  The Bank of  New York  Mellon China ADR Index, which tracks
Chinese ADRs listed in the U.S., increased 4.7 percent to 391.15
at 4:08 p.m. in New York, the most since May 10. The gauge slid
as much as 0.6 percent in the first half hour following the
Fed’s statement, before it erased losses.  “The Fed’s pre-commitment to hold fed funds stable
eventually spurred a sharp late-day move higher across risk
assets,” analysts led by  Nick Chamie  at RBC Dominion securities
Inc. wrote in a research note to clients.  The ADR gauge yesterday plunged 7.3 percent after  Standard
& Poor’s  cut the U.S. debt rating on Aug. 5, triggering a global
equities rout. The Nasdaq Composite Index jumped 5.3 percent
after plunging the most since December 2008 yesterday.  China’s inflation quickened to 6.5 percent in July, the
fastest pace in three years, from 6.4 percent in June, the
statistics bureau reported today. Industrial output grew 14
percent from a year ago, moderating from 15.1 percent in June.  ‘No Problem’  “People are realizing one place you should have no problem
finding growth is a place like China, especially when the U.S.
and  Europe  are struggling to find ways to grow,” Jeff Papp, a
Lisle, Illinois-based analyst at Oberweis Asset Management Inc.,
said in a telephone interview. Inflation may have peaked and
industrial output growth was “neither too fast nor too slow,”
which are “positive” for China’s stocks, he said.  Sina Corp., owner of China’s third-most visited website the
Twitter-like Weibo service, jumped 12 percent, leading a rally
among major Chinese Internet stocks. Baidu Inc., owner of
China’s most popular online search engine, leaped 10 percent,
the most since April 2010.  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , advanced 9.3 percent,
the biggest rise since October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  