-- 
China’s Premier Wen Jiabao Urges Global Cooperation to Stabilize Markets

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-09T18:27:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/china-s-premier-wen-jiabao-urges-global-cooperation-to-stabilize-markets.html
China ’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  urged
global cooperation to stabilize financial markets after a U.S.
rating downgrade and  Europe ’s debt crisis triggered a slump in
equities worldwide.  Countries should cut their fiscal deficits and resolve
their debt problems to maintain global investors’ confidence and
calm markets, according to a State Council statement yesterday
after a meeting chaired by Wen.  Weaker-than-estimated economic data from China to the U.S.
and the unprecedented downgrade of America’s credit rating by
 Standard & Poor’s  and Europe’s debt crisis have wiped out $7.9
trillion of global equity market capitalization since July 26.
The Federal Reserve yesterday pledged to keep its benchmark
 interest rate  at a record low at least through mid-2013.  “China urges nations to coordinate and implement concrete
and responsible fiscal and monetary policies to secure the
safety of investments,” the State Council statement said.  China’s Vice Premier Wang Qishan and U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  exchanged views on the current
world economic situation and on global financial market
movements in a telephone conversation yesterday, according to a
statement posted on the Chinese government’s website.  China is the biggest foreign investor in U.S. Treasury
bonds, with holdings reaching $1.16 trillion, according to
Treasury Department data in May.  U.S. Treasuries  The Asian nation has to continue buying Treasuries, Market
News International reported Aug. 7, citing an unidentified
central bank adviser. S&P’s downgrade could speed up China’s
efforts to cut its U.S. bond holdings in the long term, the
report said, citing a group of economists it didn’t identify.  European Central Bank purchases of Spanish and Italian
government debt and pledges by the Group of Seven nations and
the G-20 to support financial stability are yet to quell
investors’ concern that the global recovery is fading away.  Elevated inflation shows that China is still dealing with
the after-effects of an unprecedented monetary expansion during
the last global slump and may have limited room for more
stimulus. At the same time, a weaker-than-forecast gain in
industrial production added to signs that a moderation in
economic growth may help to cool price pressures.  -- Alfred Cang . Editors: Allen Wan, Josh Fellman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alfred Cang in Shanghai at 
 acang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net  