-- 
China May Delay Rate Rises Until 2012 as Market `Chaos' Threatens Exports

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-08-10T00:26:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/china-may-delay-rate-rises-until-2012-as-market-chaos-threatens-exports.html
China  may join Asian nations from
South Korea to India in delaying interest-rate increases after
the nation’s leaders urged global cooperation to stabilize
financial markets.  The People’s Bank of China will leave borrowing costs
unchanged for the rest of this year, according to eight of 10
analysts surveyed yesterday. Economists’ median forecast is for
South Korea to extend a pause for a second month tomorrow, while
Indonesia stayed on hold yesterday.  The U.S. Federal Reserve pledged yesterday to keep interest
rates near zero through mid-2013 and use other policy tools “as
appropriate,” addressing the slump in confidence that triggered
a global stock rout. China’s State Council said “relevant
nations” should adopt responsible fiscal and monetary policies
to maintain investors’ confidence, in a statement yesterday
evening after a meeting chaired by Premier  Wen Jiabao .  “We have an increased risk of a global recession, so China
will not raise rates now,” said  Wang Tao , a Hong Kong-based
economist for UBS AG, who previously worked for the
 International Monetary Fund . China’s inflation has peaked and
“food prices are already correcting,” she said.  China’s consumer prices climbed 6.5 percent in July from a
year earlier, the fastest pace since 2008, a report from the
Beijing-based  National Bureau of Statistics  showed yesterday.
That was more than the 6.4 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Industrial Production  A slower-than-estimated 14 percent gain in industrial
production added to signs that moderating economic growth may
assist in limiting price pressures. Sliding commodity costs may
also help.  The State Council’s statement dropped previous language
describing the fight against inflation as the nation’s top
priority and policy makers are likely in a “wait-and-see
mode,” Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch said in an e-mailed note.  U.S. stocks jumped the most in more than two years,
rebounding from the worst drop since 2008, after the Federal
Reserve statement. Shanghai’s stock index was little changed
yesterday after a two-day plunge of almost 6 percent.  Facing ‘Chaos’  “Usually the Chinese government stops doing anything when
there’s chaos around, that’s the instinct,” said  Andy Xie , an
independent analyst who was formerly Morgan Stanley’s chief  Asia 
economist.  Interest rates  will be “on hold for the time being,
until global markets are recovering,” he told Bloomberg
Television in  Hong Kong .  The nation’s key one-year lending rate is 6.56 percent
after three increases this year, the most recent in July.  The cost of pork, a Chinese staple, rose 57 percent in July
from a year earlier, highlighting the risk that rising prices
will lead to social instability. In signs of unrest this year, a
dispute between a street vendor and authorities in Guangdong
province in June led to protests during which crowds overturned
cars and threw bottles at police.  For the auto industry, inflation may mean slower sales
growth, said Matthew Tsien, executive vice president of General
Motors Co.’s China unit.  “What it will lead to in the near term may be more modest
levels of growth, maybe even flat growth for a period of time,”
Tsien said in an interview in Chengdu yesterday.  Tightening ‘Interrupted’  Group of Seven nations and the G-20 pledged this week to
take all necessary measures to stabilize financial markets and
foster economic growth in a bid to head off a collapse in
investor confidence. China, the world’s biggest exporter, relies
on demand in the U.S. and  Europe .  Chinese officials told the International Monetary Fund last
month that the nation’s monetary tightening since the global
financial crisis had been “interrupted” for about six months
by heightened sovereign-debt risks in Europe.  UBS, Societe Generale SA, Nomura Holdings Inc., HSBC
Holdings Plc, Standard Chartered Bank, Citigroup Inc., Daiwa
Securities Capital Markets Ltd. and Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.
expect no rate increases in China this year, while Royal Bank of
 Canada  and  Barclays Capital  still see a move as likely.  Ten of 15 economists expect  South Korea ’s central bank to
leave the benchmark rate unchanged at 3.25 percent after its
monthly monetary policy committee meeting, while five forecast a
quarter-point increase. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., DBS Bank Ltd.,
Barclays Capital, and Moody’s Economy.com dropped calls for an
increase after equity markets plunged.  Suppressing Consumption  South Korea’s consumer prices rose 4.7 percent last month
from a year earlier, the biggest gain in four months.  “The sharp decline in the equity markets themselves, if
not reversed soon, could generate its own downturn momentum,
suppressing consumption and delaying or cutting back
investments,” Goohoon Kwon, a Seoul-based economist at Goldman
Sachs, wrote in a note after pulling his call for an interest-
rate increase. “Current market conditions point to high risks
of less hikes or even rate cuts.”  In  India , a rally in bonds has signaled that investors no
longer expect an interest-rate increase as soon as next month. R.
Gopalan, secretary of economic affairs at the  Finance Ministry ,
said Aug. 7 that an easing of commodity prices as the global
economy slows may cut inflation.  “The probability of a rate hike from the  Reserve Bank  of
India has become very, very low,” said Manish Wadhawan, Mumbai-
based head of interest-rate trading at HSBC Holdings Plc.
“Nobody’s expecting a rate cut in the near future, but it could
very well be a pause situation.”  Indian Rate Moves  The  Reserve Bank of India  has raised its lending rate 11
times since the start of 2010, the most of any monetary
authority among Asia’s major economies. Increases in wholesale
prices, which the central bank uses to track inflation, have
held above 8 percent since the start of 2010.  Indonesia ’s central bank left interest rates unchanged
yesterday for a sixth month, maintaining the reference rate at
6.75 percent, while  Malaysia  and the Philippines last month
opted to ask banks to set aside more cash as reserves.  Sentiment has also swung on the likelihood of higher
borrowing costs in  Australia . The Reserve Bank of Australia will
maintain borrowing costs at 4.75 percent until the first quarter
of next year, according to the median of 22 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. A poll six days ago showed the consensus
was for a quarter percentage-point increase on Nov. 1.  “In unprecedented global circumstances, the RBA looks
prepared to tolerate above-target inflation,” said Su-Lin Ong,
head of Australian economic and fixed-income strategy at  RBC
Capital Markets  in Sydney. “The need for higher rates may
return next year but is highly conditional on stabilization and
improvement in the global backdrop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lifei Zheng in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  