-- 
China Cosco Has Second Ship Arrested as Owners Chase Payments

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-08-09T07:26:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/china-cosco-has-second-ship-arrested-as-owners-chase-overdue-charter-fees.html
A China Cosco Holdings Co. ship was
arrested in Louisiana, becoming at least the second vessel owned
by China’s biggest maritime company to be detained in about a
month as shipowners pursue overdue payments.  The Jia Li Hai was attached as Classic Maritime Inc. seeks
$2.7 million in fees and costs from Cosco unit Cosco Bulk
Carrier Co., according to filings at the U.S. District Court in
the Eastern District of Louisiana. Judge Lance M. Africk issued
the warrant on Aug. 3.  A Cosco ship was also held last month in Singapore in a
case brought by Arlen Maritime Co. The shipowner was among
companies in arbitration with the state-controlled Chinese line,
seeking $8.58 million, according to Singapore court documents.  Both cases concern ships chartered by Cosco on long-term
contracts before a plunge in rates caused by slowing demand and
rising capacity. In the Singapore case, Tianjin, China-based
Cosco was paying $87,000 a day for a capesize vessel, or about
eight times current rates. Cosco was operating 222 chartered
dry-bulk ships as of Dec. 31, according to its  annual results .  The Classic Maritime case centers on the Bulk Denmark,
which Cosco hired around Aug. 1, 2008, according to a court
document. The shipping line failed to pay fees due on July 1 and
Aug. 1, the filing said. Classic Maritime is controlled by
 DryShips Inc. (DRYS)  Chief Executive Officer George Economou.  The issue is “pure business behavior,” China Cosco said
in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg enquiries today, without
elaboration. In a separate e-mail last week, it said that it
wasn’t facing any business difficulties and that it was engaging
in usual commercial activities with lessors.  China Tax  Arlen Maritime was seeking outstanding fees totaling $2.51
million as of July 13, according to Singapore court documents.
The Cosco unit operating the Arlen vessel, Qingdao Ocean
Shipping Co., said it was unable to pay charter fees as it had
to withhold money owed by the shipowner to Chinese tax
authorities, according to an e-mail from Cosco Qingdao’s lawyers
included in Arlen’s Singapore court filings.  Cosco Qingdao earlier this year requested a meeting to
discuss charter terms, according to the filings. Arlen didn’t
agree to a reduction, the documents said.  Rental rates for capesize ships, which are too big to pass
through the Panama Canal, have slumped 53 percent over the past
year to $10,032 a day, according to the Baltic Exchange in
London. They reached as high as $233,988 in June 2008.  Fleet Growth  Owners are contending with a fleet that will grow at three
times the speed of demand this year, according to data from
Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest
shipbroker. Demand for cargoes including coal, ore and grains
will swell 3.9 percent while the fleet of dry-bulk carriers will
expand 13 percent, it estimates.  Arlen is in arbitration in London with Cosco, according to
the filings. The other owners taking part include Onil Shipping
Co., Ionian Traders Co., Elva Shipping Inc. and Erwina Shipping
Ltd., the documents say.  Ionian Traders is a unit of DryShips, according to a filing
made by Athens-based DryShips to the Securities & Exchange
Commission.  The case is Classic Maritime Inc. v. Cosco Bulk Carrier Co.,
2:11-cv-01863-SSV-ALC, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  