-- 
DTZ Holdings Appoints New Chief Executive, FD to Replace Izdik and Rickert

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-09T09:35:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/china-overseas-profit-rises-35-as-one-off-gains-overcome-government-curbs.html
     Aug. 9 (Bloomberg) --  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) ,
a Hong Kong-based builder controlled by the Chinese construction
ministry, said first-half profit climbed 35 percent on gains
from one-time items and property sales.  Net income rose to HK$6.8 billion ($871 million), or 83.7
Hong Kong cents a share, from HK$5.1 billion, or 62 Hong Kong
cents a share, a year earlier, the company said in a stock-
exchange filing today. Sales rose 25 percent to HK$21.9 billion
from HK$17.6 billion, it said.  The developer’s profit rose even as China expanded efforts
to control risks of asset bubbles. The cabinet said last month
it will rein in residential prices in smaller cities after
limiting home purchases in metropolitan areas including Beijing
and  Shanghai .  China  is intensifying property restrictions
nationwide after developers posted gains in first-half sales and
housing transactions climbed 31 percent in June.  “China Overseas’ diversified portfolio in both the
country’s major and smaller cities helped boost their sales
performance and the earnings,” said Kevin Gin, a Hong Kong-
based analyst at Yuanta Securities Co. “Looking forward, the
developer has sufficient resources to generate profits from
projects.”  The company recorded about HK$1.2 billion from two
transactions including the sale of interests in three projects
to a real estate fund and the acquisition of the control of
China Overseas Grand Ocean Group Ltd., it said in the statement.  The Hong Kong-traded stock fell 3.1 percent to HK$15.92 at
4 p.m. local close, after the results. The shares gained 11
percent this year, the best performer on the Hang Seng Property
Index, which tracks the seven-biggest Hong Kong-listed builders.  ‘Confident’ on Outlook  Net gearing in the first-half was 38.5 percent and the
company aims to keep it below 40 percent, Chairman Kong Qingping
said at a press conference in  Hong Kong  today.  The company is “confident” about the medium and long-term
development of China’s property market amid industrialization
and urbanization, Kong said in the statement. Property prospects
in Hong Kong and Macau are “good,” he said.  China Overseas, which builds homes and offices in China,
Hong Kong and Macau, said operating profit rose 37 percent to
HK$10.9 billion. Operating profit from mainland China increased
29 percent from a year earlier, accounting for 79 percent of the
overall result.  The company’s contracted sales advanced 82 percent to
HK$60.3 billion in the first seven months from a year earlier,
it said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Hong Kong and
Chinese developers usually start selling properties while
they’re still under construction and book profits as the
projects are being built.  Ahead of Target  “The company has already achieved more than half of the
year’s sales target,” said  Nicole Wong , a Hong Kong-based
property analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, who had a “buy”
rating on the stock. “China Overseas already operated in those
home purchase restriction zones in the first half, so their
earnings in the next half will not be much different.”  The company is targeting full-year sales of HK$80 billion
yuan this year, Kong said today.  The developer acquired 16 plots in China in the first half
and plans to expand its land bank at low cost in the future, it
said in the statement. The company’s land reserve is “enough”
for the next four to five, said Kong.  China Vanke Co., the country’s biggest developer, said
yesterday that first-half profit climbed 5.9 percent from a year
earlier as it sold more homes in smaller cities that were immune
to government curbs targeting metropolitan areas.  “We’re still facing a very challenging environment,” Kong
said today, citing sustained government tightening policies and
industry consolidation.  China Overseas cut prices at four projects this year by 10
percent to 15 percent from a year earlier, the company said last
month. The price reductions helped boost its market share,
CLSA’s Wong said.  --Bonnie Cao. With assistance from Bei Hu in Hong Kong. Editors:
Andreea Papuc,  Malcolm Scott .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  