-- 
Chris Christie Says Jersey’s Safe From Shariah: Jeffrey Goldberg

-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 
2011-08-09T00:00:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/chris-christie-says-jersey-s-safe-from-shariah-jeffrey-goldberg.html
Chris Christie , the governor of New
Jersey and fantasy presidential candidate of countless pining
Republicans, is the Placido Domingo of contempt, a virtuoso of
disparagement.  There are times when he blows too hard, or misdirects his
anger. Even Placido Domingo has the occasional off night. But
when Christie settles on a suitable target, his scorn can
scatter his enemies like crows from the trees.  Such was the case last week, when he directed a blast of
righteous anger at a campaign to thwart the appointment of a
prominent Muslim lawyer to the Superior Court in Passaic County,
mainly on grounds that the lawyer is, well, a Muslim. “I just
thought this was a ridiculous and disgusting situation,”
Christie told me when I called him this past weekend, a couple
of days after his explosion. “I think it is terrible to try to
exclude someone from office based only on his religion, and
that’s what was happening here.”  A bit of background: The lawyer in question is an Indian-
born Seton Hall graduate named  Sohail Mohammed , who represented,
while in private practice, Muslims who had been detained by the
FBI after the Sept. 11 attacks. None of the men was ever charged
with anything related to terrorism. During that tumultuous
period, Mohammed also served as a liaison between  New Jersey ’s
Muslim community and law-enforcement agencies. This is how
Christie, who became the U.S. attorney for the District of New
Jersey soon after the attacks, first came to know him.  Anti-Muslim Bloggers  Earlier this year, Christie nominated Mohammed to the
Superior Court. Almost immediately, the anti-Muslim blogosphere
erupted. Pamela Geller, the doyenne of Web-based anti-Muslim
prejudice,  wrote , “Governor Christie looked and sounded like he
could be presidential. He’s not. He’s in bed with the enemy.”
The blogger Daniel Greenfield  wrote , “New Jersey, the Garden
State, has just taken its first step toward becoming the Sharia
State.”  Shariah is Muslim religious law, which some Republican
politicians, unaccountably, fear will be imminently imposed on
the U.S. ( Michele Bachmann ,  Herman Cain  and  Newt Gingrich  have
all invoked the specter of Shariah on the campaign trail; even
the mainstream Republican candidate  Tim Pawlenty  believes
Shariah may pose a threat to the Constitution, his spokesman
 told The New Republic .)  Define ‘Jihad’  Mohammed was eventually confirmed for the judgeship. But
Christie was furious at the way he was treated, in part because
of the crushing stupidity of the idea that New Jersey is going
to become a Shariah state (I’ve read most of the writings of
 Osama bin Laden , and even his capacious vision of a reborn
caliphate does not include Passaic County). What was worse, in
Christie’s view, was the way state senators of both parties
grilled Mohammed on his beliefs. At one point in his
confirmation hearing, Christie told me, Mohammed was asked to
define “jihad” -- this, for a state judgeship!  “I was disgusted, candidly, by some of the questions he was
asked by both parties at the Senate Judiciary Committee.”
Christie said last week at a news conference. “This Shariah law
business is crap. It’s just crazy, and I’m tired of dealing with
the crazies. It’s just unnecessary to be accusing this guy of
things just because of his religious background.”  Christie is not known to be soft on terrorism. He
successfully prosecuted a group of Muslims who were conspiring
to attack Fort Dix. So what angered him about Mohammed’s
treatment?  “The lack of evidence,” he told me. “I’m sorry to invoke my
law-enforcement experience, but we’ve had cases in New Jersey
against Muslims in domestic terror cases, and there was evidence
in those cases. I believe the determination about someone needs
to be made on facts, not feelings.”  Shades of 1960  It was more than baseless accusations that set Christie
off. He said the attacks on Mohammed echoed an earlier, less-
tolerant period in American history. “The whole business of
bringing up Shariah law reminded me of the presidential campaign
of 1960,” he said.  “President Kennedy had to  stand up in Houston  and say his
own personal faith wouldn’t intersect with his public life.
Since then I thought we wouldn’t have any more of this
ridiculousness about people being unable to separate their
personal faith from the obligations as public officials. People
would laugh today at the idea that a Catholic running for
president would have a hot line to the pope.”  Bravest Statement  Christie’s bravest statement was to acknowledge that
Mohammed’s post-Sept. 11 work defending Muslims was not just
legitimate but also necessary -- because some Muslims were
inappropriately detained. Christie is the rare figure in
American politics who keeps his equilibrium while talking about
the war on terrorism. It’s possible, he suggested, to fight
Muslim extremists while at the same time acknowledging that the
vast majority of Muslims has nothing to do with terrorism,
except as victims.  “I think al-Qaeda would like it to be a clash of
civilizations. They want it to be everybody versus everybody.
They are a terrorist movement that believes the only way to
achieve their ends is through violence, and they don’t
discriminate, they kill Muslims who disagree with them. They
certainly didn’t worry about whether there were any Muslims in
the towers on 9/11.”  I asked him if he thought his denunciation of the “crazies”
would hurt his standing in the  Republican Party . “What happened
was motivated by ignorance and political opportunism, but I
think it’s actually bad politics, because most thinking and
voting Americans think that no one should be excluded from
office because of their religion,” he said. “A deep faith in God
is part of what makes America a great place. Most Americans
think that people, as long as they peacefully follow their
faith, shouldn’t be demonized.”  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for The Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 