-- 
Citigroup Resolves Finra Claims That Sales Agent Robbed Clients

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-08-09T16:23:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/citigroup-resolves-finra-claims-that-sales-agent-robbed-clients.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  will pay $500,000 to
resolve Financial Industry Regulatory Authority claims that it
failed to stop fraud by an employee who abused accounts
belonging to elderly and ill clients as well as her own father.  Tamara Moon misappropriated almost $750,000 from 22
customers over eight years while working as a sales assistant at
a branch office in Palo Alto,  California , Finra said today in a
 statement . Moon, who was barred from the securities industry for
the misconduct in 2009, was indicted by a federal grand jury on
related criminal charges in June.  Citigroup failed to investigate red flags including
suspicious trades as Moon targeted customers she believed would
be unable to monitor their accounts, Finra said. The  Palo Alto 
branch didn’t have adequate systems to prevent Moon from
falsifying records, the Washington-based regulator said.  “Tamara Moon used her knowledge of Citigroup’s lax
supervisory practices at the branch to take advantage of some of
the firm’s most vulnerable customers,” Brad Bennett, Finra’s
enforcement chief, said in a statement. “Citigroup had reason
to know what she was doing and could have stopped her.”  In one instance, Moon created an account in the name of a
dead customer even after Citigroup had been notified that the
person had died, Finra said. She then created a fraudulent
account in the name of the customer’s widow, using it to funnel
$7,500 to her own personal account, according to the statement.  Moon also created a fraudulent account in her father’s name
to steal $150,000 from one customer, Finra said.  When Citigroup discovered Moon’s suspicious activity in
2008, the firm “immediately notified the authorities,
terminated her employment and reimbursed impacted clients,” the
company said in an e-mailed statement. “We will provide any
assistance necessary to ensure that the former employee is
prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.”  A phone call to Geoffrey Hansen, a federal public defender
representing Moon in the criminal matter, wasn’t immediately
returned.  Moon was employed by Citigroup’s Smith Barney unit,
Elizabeth Fogarty, a bank spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  