-- 
Citroen Revival of Historic DS Seen Winning German Premium Drivers: Cars

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-08-09T07:04:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/citroen-ds-revival-seen-winning-german-drivers.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen is expanding the
DS line of upscale cars to challenge  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) 
and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi with lower-priced French alternatives.  Peugeot Citroen, Europe’s second-biggest carmaker after
VW, is ramping up production of the DS4 compact and preparing to
introduce the DS5 midsized crossover by the end of the year
following the success of the DS3 city car.  The Paris-based carmaker revived the 56-year-old DS name
last year to lift the Citroen brand’s profit by assembling
pricier cars with the same parts and production facilities as
its mass-market vehicles. The DS3, introduced in March 2010 to
compete with BMW’s Mini models, logged 110,000 deliveries in 16
months to beat its original production target by almost 50
percent. The recently introduced  DS4  challenges Audi’s A3.  “The steering felt precise, and the finish quality was
astonishing inside and out,” said Michel Garet, 67, a Paris-
based advertising consultant who traded his Audi A1 for the new
Citroen model last month. “For years I stuck to German cars,
then the DS4 won me over.”  The space-age curves and technical advances of the
original DS model, including hydraulic suspension and swiveling
headlamps, made it a hit among the French elite following its
1955 introduction, and a cult car in many other countries.
Owners included French President  Charles de Gaulle , the
cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin and the actress Brigitte Bardot.  Peugeot, aiming to recapture some of that cache, won’t have
an easy time beating the German carmakers at the luxury game.
BMW and Audi have broader product portfolios, decades of
experience and specialized sales networks for their upscale
vehicles. In the size categories covered by the first trio of DS
cars, Audi and BMW both currently offer about a dozen models,
including variants such as convertibles and coupes.  French Luxury  The DS line’s upscale potential may also be limited by
sharing the Citroen brand and showrooms with the automaker’s
mass-market vehicles, said Manfred Abraham, head of consulting
at London-based Interbrand. He cited Volkswagen’s own failure to
meet a 20,000 sales target for the Phaeton luxury car, which
logged about one-third of that number of deliveries last year.  “Traditionally you shouldn’t try to stretch a car brand
like that even when it’s German -- which has got to be an easier
proposition on any premium market,” Abraham said. “But times
are changing and consumers are becoming more individualistic.
The French are great at building luxury brands so maybe they can
bring some of that knowledge to cars.”  Lower Price  Priced slightly below the Mini and Audi A1, the DS3 is
gaining ground in  Europe , IHS Automotive forecasts. The DS3
starts at 15,900 euros ($22,590) in France, while the base Mini
costs 15,990 euros and the A1 sells for 16,400 euros, according
to the carmakers’ Web sites.  DS3 deliveries will increase more than 30 percent this
year, compared with an estimated 18 percent decline in the
region for Mini models, IHS said. Deliveries of the A1, which
went on sale last year, are set to quadruple.  “We’re taking customers from Mini, no doubt about it,”
Citroen managing director Frederic Banzet said in an interview.
“This is new territory for us.”  The French carmaker also has had a share in Mini’s success
by supplying engines to the brand under a partnership between
the manufacturers. The companies extended that cooperation last
year and plan to jointly produce components for hybrid vehicles.  Some 60 percent of DS3 customers are first-time Citroen
buyers, and many have previously owned upscale brands, Banzet
said at the carmaker’s Paris headquarters. Like the Mini,
Citroen’s city car lets customers personalize the vehicle with a
choice of mix-and-match body colors, decals and other features.  Bolder Design  Peugeot Citroen is making inroads where domestic rival
 Renault SA (RNO)  failed to revive a dwindling French presence in
pricier vehicle categories. The conservatively styled Laguna
midsize car, billed as Renault’s quality flagship at its 2007
introduction, missed the annual objective of 190,000 vehicles
and declined last year to half its 2008 peak of 96,000.  Citroen has continued a bolder design approach for the DS
line with the second model. To preserve the DS4’s faux-coupe
lines, the rear doors feature discreetly camouflaged handles and
windows that don’t open.  “We know we’re taking some risks,” Banzet said. “The
idea is that we won’t be leaving anybody cold.”  Citroen, which owned Maserati from 1968-1975, has a history
of mixing upscale sedans with more prosaic vehicles. The
original DS large car, introduced with power steering, shared
showroom space with the rustic 2CV.  Profit Boost  The DS cars help lift earnings because they’re priced above
the ordinary Citroen models with which they share about 70
percent of parts. The DS3’s starting price in  France  is 2,600
euros more than the basic C3 model.  Customers end up spending more, with one in three selecting
the top “sport chic” finish, Banzet said, declining to comment
on profitability. The carmaker’s auto division posted a 2.4
percent operating margin for the first half.  “The DS3 pricing premium is such that a low double-digit
margin wouldn’t be impossible to believe at the peak,” said
London-based Morgan Stanley analyst Stuart Pearson, who has an
“underweight” recommendation on Peugeot shares. “The challenge
now is making that work for bigger cars, where the competition
from BMW and Audi is stiffer.”  BMW is revamping its 1-Series this year and adding Mini
variants, including a coupe this fall and roadster in 2012, when
Audi is also updating its A3. Citroen has booked 11,500 orders
in the first two months the DS4 has been on European markets,
with a full-year production target of 45,000, Banzet said.  Garet, the advertising consultant who received his DS4 last
month, said he has no regrets, even if the rear windows don’t
open.  “My wife’s a little claustrophobic so she didn’t like it
much when she rode in the back one time,” he said. “But it
doesn’t bother me because I’m always in the driver’s seat, and
the car looks great.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  