-- 
Commodities Tumble to Eight-Month Low as Economic Slowdown Erodes Demand

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-08-09T06:37:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/commodities-tumble-to-eight-month-low-as-economic-slowdown-erodes-demand.html
Commodities plunged to their lowest
level in eight months, extending two weeks of losses, on concern
that the global share-market rout will slow the economy, eroding
demand. Gold jumped to a record on demand for a haven.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
tumbled as much as 3.6 percent to 598.46, the lowest level since
Dec. 2, and was at 611.73 at 3:30 p.m. in  Seoul . The measure has
dropped 5.2 percent in two days, extending last week’s 5.9
percent decline. Oil lost as much as 6.9 percent to the lowest
in more than 10 months, and copper fell to an eight-month low.  “The market is now worried about another global
recession,” Natalie Robertson, commodity analyst at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said by phone from  Melbourne .
“The S&P downgrade of the U.S. credit rating has fueled a lot
of those concerns. The market is also focusing on the European
situation.”  Investors dumped equities and most raw materials for the
perceived safety of Treasuries, the Swiss franc and gold amid
escalating debt concerns in the U.S. and  Europe . The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index, which last week entered a so-called correction
after falling more than 10 percent from its May peak, slumped as
much as 5.5 percent today, falling for a sixth straight day.  Crude for September delivery fell as much as 6.9 percent to
$75.71 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and last traded at $79.08 a barrel.  Fed Meeting  Federal Reserve policy makers will hold a one-day meeting
today as the unprecedented downgrade of the U.S.’s top credit
rating fuels speculation America is headed for a recession.
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and his colleagues may prolong a pledge
to maintain record monetary stimulus, said economists at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., BNP Paribas and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “Until we can see some confidence coming back to the U.S.
consumer, the situation is probably not going to change that
much in terms of another strong price rally,” said  David Lennox ,
a resource analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney, who kept his
forecast for New York crude to average $115 this year. “A
recession would obviously have the potential to reduce
consumption and that will place pressure on prices.”  Group of Seven nations have said they will take every
action necessary to stabilize financial markets after S&P
lowered the U.S. rating by one level to AA+. The  European
Central Bank  started buying Italian and Spanish bonds.  China ’s exports will be hurt “badly” should the U.S. debt
rating downgrade spur a slowdown in the global economy,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  China Inflation  Inflation in China, the world’s biggest consumer of energy,
 iron ore , soybeans and copper, accelerated to the fastest pace
in three years in July. Elevated inflation shows that China is
still dealing with the after-effects of an unprecedented
monetary expansion during the last global slump and may have
limited room for further stimulus.  Copper for three-month delivery fell as much as 3.8 percent
to $8,446.25 a metric ton and traded at $8,748 a ton in  London .
Gold for December delivery climbed as much as 3.6 percent to
$1,774.80 an ounce, a record for the most active contract.  Wheat for December delivery dropped as much as 1.9 percent
to $6.8175 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. Corn for
December delivery declined as much as 2.3 percent to $6.7025.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  