-- 
Commerzbank Finance Chief Strutz Will Exit German Bank When Contract Ends

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-08-09T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/commerzbank-finance-chief-strutz-will-exit-german-bank-when-contract-ends.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-
biggest bank, said Chief Financial Officer  Eric Strutz  plans to
step down when his contract expires in March.  Strutz, 46, who joined the bank in 2001 and became finance
chief in 2003, told the supervisory board he doesn’t wish to
extend his mandate, the Frankfurt-based company said yesterday
in a statement.  As a management board member since 2004, he helped lead the
bank during the purchase of unprofitable rival  Dresdner Bank 
before the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the
ensuing credit crisis and a government bailout.  “Eric Strutz has guided the finances of the bank through
extremely difficult times, and it is not only this that has
gained him an outstanding reputation,” Chairman Klaus-Peter Mueller said in the statement. Still, “we can understand his
desire to begin a new chapter in his personal plans.”  Commerzbank reports second-quarter results today. The
bank’s stock has declined 81 percent, closing at 2.13 euros in
Frankfurt trading, during Strutz’s tenure on the management
board. The bank received 18 billion euros ($26 billion) from the
country’s Soffin bank-rescue fund amid the Dresdner takeover.  Commerzbank said on June 7 that it raised 5.3 billion euros
in the second step of a capital increase to raise a total of 11
billion euros to repay government aid. Chief Executive Officer
 Martin Blessing  said in April that the bank planned to repay
about 14.3 billion euros in so-called silent participations to
Soffin by June through the sale of new shares and use of excess
reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story: Ragnhild Kjetland in
Frankfurt at   rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  