-- 
Company Pension Underfunding Jumps 38% to $351 Billion as Economy Slows

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-08-09T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/company-pension-underfunding-jumps-by-97-billion-as-economic-growth-slows.html
Corporate pensions in the U.S. are
falling behind future payouts to retirees by the most this year
as the  U.S. economy  slows, driving down bond yields that
determine the plans’ future obligations.  The gap between the assets of the 100 largest company
pensions and their projected liabilities has widened by $97
billion in August to $351 billion, actuarial and consulting firm
Milliman Inc. said today in a statement. That compares with the
record $446 billion deficit in August 2010.  “July was a brutal month for these pensions,” John Ehrhardt, a principal and consulting actuary in New York with
Milliman, said in the statement. “Unfortunately it looks like
we may be in for more bad news, with August off to a miserable
start.”  Company pensions are a casualty of record low bond yields,
a benchmark in determining future liabilities, that have been
driven down by mounting concern that the U.S. economy is
stalling. Pension plan assets fell $6 billion in July, while
liabilities increased $62 billion, according to Seattle-based
Milliman. Assets declined $64 billion and liabilities increased
$33 billion between Aug. 1 and Aug. 8.  “We had a nice bounce on the assets since the financial
crisis until the last month or so,” Ehrhardt said in a
telephone interview. “The  interest rates  have been a tremendous
drag on the pension plan funding.”  U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 1.3 percent pace from
April through June, less than forecast, after almost stalling in
the first quarter as consumers retrenched, government data
showed on July 29.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the U.S. long-term
rating one level to AA+ after markets closed on Aug. 5, while
keeping the outlook at “negative” as the firm becomes less
confident that Congress will end Bush-era tax cuts or tackle
entitlements.  Treasury yields fell to 1.27 percent yesterday, the lowest
ever, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  