-- 
Oil Recovers From 10-Month Low in New York Before Federal Reserve Meeting

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-08-09T12:55:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/crude-falls-to-10-month-low-in-new-york-brent-dips-below-100-in-london.html
Oil recovered from its lowest in
more than 10 months in New York amid speculation that the
 Federal Reserve  may strengthen its commitment to monetary
stimulus, helping fuel demand in the world’s largest economy.  Crude rebounded as rising U.S. equity index futures
signaled the earlier loss may have been excessive. Federal
Reserve officials may ease policy through monetary tools 
or statement language, according to a Bloomberg News survey.
An Energy Department report tomorrow may show U.S. crude
inventories climbed for a third week. OPEC cut demand forecasts
for this year and next.  “The sell-off was overdone,” said James Zhang, an analyst
at Standard Bank Plc in London. “The fundamentals of the oil
market remain tight, and the market is also expecting supportive
messages from the Fed. When it comes to where to allocate money
across different assets, oil is one of the commodities with the
strongest fundamentals.”  Crude for September delivery on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange rose as much as $1.74, or 2.1 percent, to $83.05 a
barrel. The contract earlier fell to $75.71 a barrel, the lowest
price since Sept. 29.  Brent oil for September settlement was up $1.72, or 1.7
percent, at $105.46 a barrel after slipping $5, or 4.8 percent,
to $98.74 on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. It was
the first time Brent fell below $100 since Feb. 8. The European
benchmark contract was at a $22.72 premium to U.S. futures,
after earlier reaching an intraday record of $23.76.  OPEC Demand Forecast  Federal Reserve policy makers will hold a one-day meeting
as the removal of the top  credit rating  for the U.S. stokes
speculation the nation is headed for a recession. S&P said it
downgraded the country one level to AA+ because the agreement by
President  Barack Obama  and congressional Republicans didn’t do
enough to stabilize the government’s “medium-term debt
dynamics.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries cut its
oil demand forecasts for this year and next as the global
economic recovery loses momentum. The group reduced its 2011
consumption estimate by 150,000 barrels a day. That means global
demand will rise by 1.2 million a day, or 1.4 percent, to 88.1
million a day. Next year it will increase by 1.5 percent to 89.4
million, following a “minor downward revision,” the
organization said today in its monthly market report.  The group has no plans “so far” to hold an emergency
meeting in response to recent price declines, said an OPEC
delegate who isn’t authorized to speak publicly on the matter
and declined to be identified by name. OPEC is worried about the
global economy and falling demand, according to the delegate,
who said the organization doesn’t have a specific price target
that would trigger action.  The U.S. Energy Department report tomorrow may show crude
oil supplies increased 1.5 million barrels in the seven days
ended Aug. 5 as the government released barrels from the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve, according to the median of eight
analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline
inventories probably climbed 900,000 barrels, the survey shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  