-- 
Crusaders Face Another Rugby Season Without Home Stadium After Earthquake

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-09T04:45:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/crusaders-face-another-rugby-season-without-home-stadium-after-earthquake.html
The Canterbury Crusaders face a
second straight Super Rugby season without a home ground after
Christchurch city officials said the team’s earthquake-damaged
stadium will remain closed in 2012.  The Crusaders, record seven-time winners of the southern
hemisphere’s elite provincial rugby competition, were forced
onto the road for the entire 2011 campaign after AMI Stadium was
damaged in the Feb. 22 temblor that killed more than 180 people
in  New Zealand ’s second-largest city.  Christchurch City Council said today that the 36,000-seat
stadium’s long-term future is still being assessed and that
engineers recommended that at least one stand be demolished. The
council is working with the Canterbury Rugby Football Union to
find an alternative venue for rugby in the city, Councilor Sue
Wells said in a  statement .  “At this stage we can confirm that the stadium will not be
available for the 2012 season,” Wells said.  Re-leveling and other repairs are required on another stand,
the council said, adding that work is under way to establish the
best course of action regarding two stands that dropped as much
as 40 centimeters (16 inches).  The scale of the re-leveling required has never been
undertaken before in New Zealand and is rare around the world,
Wells added. One method of repair could involve driving piles
down 25 meters to reach solid ground.  “Engineers are working now to determine the best method of
repair and to establish the costs involved,” she said.  The Crusaders traveled about 100,000 kilometers (62,150
miles) last season in getting to the July 9 Super Rugby final,
where they lost 18-13 to  Australia ’s  Queensland Reds .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  