-- 
Cyprus Government, Unions Reach Budget-Cuts Deal, Spokesman Says

-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 
2011-08-09T19:24:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/cyprus-government-unions-reach-budget-cuts-deal-spokesman-says.html
Cyprus’s government will submit a
package of deficit reductions to parliament after reaching a
deal with labor unions as it seeks to avoid seeking an
international bailout, a government spokesman said.  “Tomorrow the Cabinet will finalize the fiscal package and
will submit it to the  House of Representatives ,” government
spokesman  Stefanos Stefanou  told reporters in Nicosia today
after Cypriot President Demetris Christofias met with union
leaders. “The government is ready to present the package as it
is agreed.” Stefanou did not give full details of the
agreement.  The east Mediterranean island’s government and public-
sector unions were negotiating a package aiming at reducing the
budget deficit of the euro area’s third-smallest economy by 42.5
million euros ($60.6 million) this year and 231.7 million euros
in 2012, according to a  Finance Ministry  document obtained by
Bloomberg News. The budget cuts correspond to 0.2 percent and
1.3 percent of gross domestic product, respectively.  Cyprus, struggling to avoid becoming the latest victim of
 Europe ’s debt crisis as its borrowing costs rise, had its  credit
rating  cut last month by Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard
& Poor’s , which both cited a lack of spending cuts. The
president, seeking to restore investor confidence, reshuffled
his Cabinet last week after an explosion at a munitions depot
knocked out more than half the island’s electricity production.  Deficit Target  “When and if the finance minister addresses the
parliamentary finance committee on this matter, he will present
the fiscal package and its budgetary impact and the prospects of
the Cypriot economy,” Stefanou said in response to a question
about whether the deal can help Cyprus meet its target fiscal
deficit of less than 4 percent of economic output for this year.  Christofias, who saw the pro-business DIKO party walk out
the coalition on Aug. 3, can count on the support of his
communist AKEL party in the Cypriot parliament. AKEL has 19
representatives in the 56-seat house.  The finance Ministry proposed raising the value-added  tax
rate  for non-food and non-medicine items to 17 percent from 15
percent and increasing the income-tax rate for people who earn
more than 60,000 euros annually to 35 percent from 30 percent,
according to the document. It also called for a 10 percent cut
in the pay scales of new civil servants and changes to their
pension status.  ‘One-Offs’  The measures won’t enable Cyprus to avoid asking for a
rescue, said Marios Demetriades, a  fund manager  at Piraeus Bank
(Cyprus) Ltd. in Nicosia. “The package focuses again on income
measures, and any measures taken on the cost side are likely to
be one-offs, something that will not address the structural
problems of the economy,” he said in an e-mail.  Cyprus’s budget shortfall on a cash basis widened to 3.5
percent of GDP in the first half of 2011 as spending surged 9.2
percent to 3.6 billion euros. The yield on Cyprus’s 10-year bond
maturing in February 2020 fell 41 basis points today to 13.36
percent after peaking at 13.77 percent yesterday, compared with
6.22 percent on May 9.  The  Finance Ministry  also proposed increasing contributions
to the orphans and widows’ fund to save 24 million euros in 2012
and paring public employees’ salaries by 3 percent for three
years. The ministry document, provided to Bloomberg by a person
involved in the negotiations who declined to be identified
because the talks were ongoing, didn’t specify the impact of
these measures or two others related to the calculation of
public pensions.  Cyprus’s indirect tax revenue in the first seven months of
the year rose an annual 3.7 percent to 1.3 billion euros, mainly
on a 25 percent increase in revenue from excise taxes on energy
products, the  Customs and Excise  Department said in a  statement 
on its Web site today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  