-- 
Czech July Inflation Rate Fell for 2nd Time in Row to 1.7%

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-08-09T11:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/czech-july-inflation-rate-fell-for-second-time-in-row-to-1-7-.html
The Czech inflation rate dropped for
a second consecutive month in July, suggesting the central bank
doesn’t need to rush with an  interest-rate  increase.  Inflation slowed to 1.7 percent, compared with 1.8 percent
in the previous month, the  Czech Statistical Office  said in a
statement today. On a monthly basis, consumer prices advanced
0.3 percent after a 0.2 percent decline in June.  Policy makers in eastern  Europe  have been forced to choose
between  price stability  and choking an economic recovery. The
Czech central bank has kept the benchmark interest rate
unchanged for 14 months and said Aug. 4 that uncertainty about
the impact of the U.S. and the euro region’s debt crisis has
delayed the need to tighten monetary policy.  The data will confirm that “there aren’t any dangerous
tendencies” in inflation,  David Marek , an economist at Patria
Finance, a Prague-based brokerage, said before the release.
“There is no reason to think about any monetary tightening,
especially since the economic situation is set to worsen.”  Price growth has remained under the central bank’s 2
percent target for 27 of the last 28 months and the bank’s
latest forecast, released on Aug. 4, sees inflation rising above
3 percent next year because of external factors rather than
domestic price pressures.  Inflation in July was overall in line with the central
bank’s forecast of 1.8 percent, with the only deviation from its
outlook coming from costs of healthcare and regulated prices, it
said today in a commentary published on its website.  The central bank also on Aug. 4 revised its forecast for
economic growth in 2012 to 2.2 percent from a previously
projected 2.8 percent, saying austerity measures will hurt
consumer demand.  The monthly rise in consumer prices was driven by a
seasonal increase in prices of holiday packages, which was
partially offset by declining prices of clothing and shoes. Food
prices fell 0.3 percent on month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  