-- 
Danish Austerity Resolve Unfazed by Global Rout

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-08-09T09:35:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/danish-austerity-resolve-unfazed-by-global-rout.html
Denmark  will force through budget
cuts to appease bond investors even as a global equity slump and
a deepening European debt crisis threaten to derail a recovery,
Finance Minister Claus Hjort Frederiksen said.  “We need to continue consolidation,” Frederiksen said in
a phone interview in Copenhagen yesterday. “Two things are
dangerous in the current situation. One is to raise taxes, the
other is to raise debt levels in Denmark. That would send a
wrong signal to the international financial markets.”   Stocks slumped yesterday after Standard & Poor’s downgraded
the U.S. for the first time, prompting crisis talks across the
globe as leaders from  Germany  to  Japan  thrashed out their
response to the turmoil. Denmark, which slid back into a
recession in the fourth quarter, is committing to budget cuts
even as it tackles a regional banking crisis that has claimed
two lenders this year and stalled a housing-market recovery.  “We don’t see, at this point, any reason to change our
fiscal policies,” Frederiksen said. Denmark’s economy is
“basically in a good condition” and will expand 1.5 percent to
2 percent this year, he said.  Denmark has attracted international investor attention
since the government forced through the European Union’s
toughest bank resolution laws, in place since October, forcing
senior creditors to accept losses in insolvencies.  Standard &
Poor’s  said last month the country may face another 15 failures,
costing as much as 12 billion kroner ($2.3 billion) over the
next three years.  Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps on Danish government debt soared to
the highest on record last week as investors bet the country’s
banking crisis may delay a recovery. Still, the difference in
10-year government bond yields relative to German bunds is
narrower than spreads on any euro-area member’s debt. The Nordic
country’s 10-year government bond yesterday yields 25 basis
points more than German debt of a similar maturity.  The government faces a general election by November. Most
polls show the ruling Liberal-Conservative coalition will lose
to the Social Democrat-led opposition, which targets fewer
spending cuts.  The central bank, which uses policy to peg the krone to the
euro, warned yesterday that the deteriorating global economic
outlook may hurt Denmark’s recovery prospects.  “The central bank doesn’t view a global recession as being
probable,” Governor Nils Bernstein said in an e-mailed reply to
questions. “However, there’s no doubt that international growth
prospects have weakened over the summer. That will also affect
Denmark, but by how much is still unknown.”  Estimates Questioned  Economists are also questioning the government’s growth
estimate for this year.  “That’s way above our forecast,” said Jes Asmussen, chief
economist at Svenska Handelsbanken AB in Copenhagen. He expects
the economy to grow 0.8 percent in 2011.  “The recovery is ongoing but I see more weakening in the
Danish economy than the government is seeing,” Asmussen said by
phone. “Private consumption will develop very weakly both this
year and next year.”  Denmark’s current account and trade surpluses grew in June,
indicating the economy may have exited its recession last
quarter and is poised to deliver an export-led rebound.  The current account surplus widened to 12.2 billion kroner
from 10.8 billion kroner in May while the  trade surplus  widened
to 6.4 billion kroner from 5.6 billion krone, the office said.  Exiting Recession  “It’s clear that we’ve put the recession behind us in the
second quarter,” Rasmus Gudum, an economist at Svenska
Handelsbanken AB in Copenhagen, said in a note today. “But this
continues to be completely due to the development in external
demand, which today’s trade figures confirmed.”  According to Jacob Graven, chief economist at Sydbank A/S,
the  U.S. economy  is likely to fall into a recession again,
threatening to stall recovery prospects elsewhere.  “The growth outlook for Denmark, as well as most other
countries, deteriorated significantly over the summer,
especially as a consequence of this downgrade of the  United
States ,” Graven said. “We expect at least the American economy
to head for a double dip, and this would hugely affect other
economies, including Denmark.” The government’s “growth
forecast looks pretty optimistic today, as the world looks right
now,” he said.  Further Measures  Denmark’s economy will expand 1.9 percent this year and 1.7
percent in 2012, the  Finance Ministry  said in May. The
government will post a budget deficit equivalent to 4.1 percent
of gross domestic product this year and the shortfall will widen
to 4.3 percent in 2012, the ministry said. Debt will swell to
45.5 percent of GDP next year from 42.5 percent in 2011, it
said.  Denmark’s government would only consider further measures
to support the economy “if the world’s economy comes again to a
standstill, or if the U.S. or the southern European countries
don’t solve their debt problems and don’t adopt credible fiscal
policies,” Frederiksen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  