-- 
Danske’s Net Surges 27% as Bank Predicts Loan Losses to Continue Declining

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-08-09T08:51:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/danske-bank-posts-27-increase-in-second-quarter-profit-beating-estimates.html
Danske Bank A/S said net income rose
27 percent in the second quarter, indicating  Denmark ’s biggest
lender has brushed off the fallout of the country’s banking
crisis.  Net income climbed to 1.19 billion kroner ($227 million)
from 937 million kroner a year earlier, the Copenhagen-based
bank said in a statement today. That beat the 953 million-krone
average in a Bloomberg survey. The bank has “nearly covered”
its funding need for the year, it said.  “It’s a positive report in a situation where everything
else in the financial market is negative,” said Bjoern Schwarz,
an analyst at Sydbank A/S, in a phone interview. “It
strengthens our view that Danske Bank is heading in the right
direction.”  Danske Bank’s share price has underperformed its biggest
Nordic peers since Denmark’s economy slipped into a recession in
the fourth quarter and as two local lenders collapsed this year.
Moody’s Investors Service cited the failures when it lowered
ratings for Danske and five other Danish lenders in May. Still,
the bank benefited from a surge in income and an improved  credit
quality  in most of its markets that helped reduce losses.  Shares Outperform  The shares gained as much as 4.4 percent before trading 3.3
percent lower at 81.65 kroner at 10:45 a.m. in Copenhagen,
outperforming a 4.1 percent loss in the 46-member Bloomberg
Index of European financials. European stocks declined for an
eighth day, the longest losing streak since 2003.  Danske stock has lost 38 percent this year, compared with a
27 percent slide in the Bloomberg European financials index.
 Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the Nordic region’s biggest lender, has lost 25
percent this year.  “Banking activities still show robust earnings,” Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Straarup  said in a press release. “The
result of the Danish banking unit is particularly encouraging.”  The bank’s Irish business continued to suffer losses, as
the second euro member to receive a bailout after  Greece 
struggles to emerge from its housing-market collapse.  Danske’s  National Irish Bank  posted a pre-tax loss of 400
million euros ($570 million) in the first half, compared with
341 million euros a year earlier, as the lender set aside 420
million euros for loan impairments, it said.  Irish Losses  “Impairments remain frustratingly high and are caused in
the main by the continued decline in property values,” Andrew Healy, head of the unit, said in an e-mailed statement. The bank
said most of the impairments are in its commercial real estate
loan book, with the quality of its mortgage book staying
“satisfactory.”  Danske’s Danish unit, the company’s largest, was helped by
higher lending rates after Denmark’s central bank increased
rates by a quarter of a percentage point on April 7. The bank
also saw profit rise after loan losses fell.  “We expect impairment charges to continue to decline,”
Straarup said. “Charges at most business units are now at low
or lower than normal levels.”  Danske Bank is one of about a half-dozen lenders in Denmark
still able to tap international debt markets for funds. More
than 100 small- and mid-sized lenders have faced a funding wall
after Amagerbanken A/S and Fjordbank Mors A/S collapsed,
triggering senior creditor losses as Denmark forces through the
European Union’s toughest bank resolution laws.  Cost of Failures  Danske said it booked a cost of 1.1 billion kroner in the
first half to cover its commitment to the Danish Guarantee Fund
for Depositors and Investors relating to the failures of
Amagerbanken and Fjordbank Mors.  “The key fact, beyond that they are reporting a pre-tax
profit that’s better than expected, is that net interest income,
net commission income and costs are in line and on the positive
side, so they don’t disappoint,” said Mats Anderson, an analyst
at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux SA, in a phone interview.  Reported net interest income eased to 5.79 billion kroner
from 5.93 billion kroner, the bank said. Reported trading income
was 2.45 billion kroner, versus 2.73 billion kroner, while
profit before tax rose to 2.08 billion kroner, compared with
1.74 billion kroner a year earlier.  Danish lenders are grappling with a recession in their
local market, after gross domestic product contracted 0.1
percent in the first quarter after shrinking 0.2 percent in the
last three months of 2010. The economy has suffered as a
depressed housing market keeps a lid on demand.  ‘Recession Behind Us’  Still, the economy looks poised to deliver an export-led
rebound, as the current account surplus widened to 12.2 billion
kroner in June from 10.8 billion kroner a month earlier, the
statistics office said today. The  trade surplus  widened to 6.4
billion kroner in June from 5.6 billion kroner in May, it said.  “It’s clear that we’ve put the recession behind us in the
second quarter,” said Rasmus Gudum, an economist at  Svenska
Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  in Copenhagen, in a note. “But this continues
to be completely due to the development in external demand,
which today’s trade figures confirmed.”  Eleven Danish banks have failed since 2008 and a further 15
could face default because of bad loans to commercial real
estate and farming,  Standard & Poor’s  said July 28. The failures
may cost Denmark as much as 12 billion kroner over three years,
S&P estimates.  Danske Bank said it “had good access to funding in the
first half-year through issues on the financial markets,”
according to the statement.  Denmark’s Financial Supervisory Authority has said the
country’s biggest lenders can withstand the fallout of more
regional bank insolvencies. Danske last month passed  Europe ’s
stress tests for the industry with more than double the capital
buffer required. The lender’s core Tier 1 capital ratio of 13
percent surpassed the 5 percent minimum required by the European
Banking Authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 Plevring1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 