-- 
Dealmaking at Risk as Rout Threatens Best Year Since 2007

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-08-09T18:30:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/dealmaking-at-risk-as-market-plunge-threatens-best-performance-since-2007.html
The plunge in global stocks is
threatening to derail what was on course to be the best year for
takeovers and initial public offerings since 2007.  The drop makes it more difficult to value takeover targets
as well as IPO candidates, investment bankers said. About $2.5
trillion vanished from global equities yesterday after  Standard
& Poor’s  cut the U.S. credit rating. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  sank 634.76 points, extending a 9.8 percent drop in the
previous two weeks.  Hong Kong ’s benchmark Hang Seng Index fell
5.7 percent today, the biggest decline since November 2008.  “It’s hard to price deals while there is this kind of
turmoil going on,” Laurence Grafstein, co-head of mergers and
acquisitions at Rothschild in New York, said in an interview
yesterday. “You need to have some stability, a window to price
things or to finance things. All this fluidity obviously puts
deals on hold.”  Takeover targets from St. Louis-based Ralcorp Holdings Inc.
to  Australia ’s  Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL)  have sunk below the value of
the offers as Standard & Poor’s cut the U.S.’s AAA credit rating
for the first time and amid Europe’s worsening debt crisis.  Last week, Houston-based toolmaker Cooper Industries Plc
abandoned a bid for Laird Plc, the maker of electronic shields
for laptops, after failing to agree on price. Fidelity National
Information Services Inc. followed suit, backing away from an
offer for U.K.-based financial-software maker Misys Plc.  More Cautious  “If you are a buyer, you will become more cautious and
probably slow down your internal process,” said Jeffrey Raich,
managing director and co-founder at Moelis & Co. “If you are a
seller, then you will reconsider whether now is the time to go
to market.”  Obtaining financing also may grow difficult as borrowing
costs rise. The extra yield investors demand to hold U.S.
investment-grade corporate debt rather than Treasuries jumped 16
basis points to 190 basis points, the highest since last
September, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.
Relative yields on  junk bonds  soared to the most in almost a
year.  The equities rout has also hurt the IPO market, which was
also headed for its best year since 2007. WageWorks Inc., Cathay
Industrial Biotech Ltd. and InvenSense Inc. are among companies
that have delayed or scrapped first-time share sales as volatile
markets sapped demand for new stock. At least six IPOs have been
postponed or canceled since the global slump started Aug. 3,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Market Volatility  The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, has more than doubled since that date as bets by
investors that stocks will fall have surged. The volatility
measure closed at its highest since March 2009 yesterday.  “Inevitably when you have this level of uncertainty or
volatility in the market, you’ll see some slowdown,” Marshall Sonenshine, chairman of New York-based investment bank
Sonenshine Partners LLC, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview yesterday. “One has to put that in the context of an
M&A market that in the first half of this year has been rather
robust.”  Global announced deal volume in the first six months of
2011 reached $1.27 trillion, a 34 percent jump from $945.2
billion in the same period a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. If that pace continued in the second
half, deal volume would top the $2.49 trillion reached in 2008.
That would still trail 2007’s record $4 trillion in takeovers.  As of yesterday, about 1,100 IPOs globally had raised
$141.6 billion this year, more than during the comparable period
in any year since 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  IPO Calendar  The U.S. calendar for IPOs, which started this week with 12
deals scheduled to price, is already thinning out, a sign
investors are retrenching against losses and showing less
appetite for the added risk of a newly public company, said
 Renaissance Capital LLC ’s Nick Einhorn.  “When things are going well, that’s when investors are
looking at IPOs,” said Einhorn, an analyst at the Greenwich,
Connecticut-based IPO investment firm. “When the market’s as
volatile as it is with many big issues at stake, investors are
going to be focused on those instead.”  Beijing-based China Everbright Bank Co. delayed a share
sale in Hong Kong for the second time in less than two months
because of stock-market swings, two people with knowledge of the
matter said Aug. 5. Williams Cos. said today it may cancel the
initial public offering of its oil and natural-gas exploration
unit and spin it off instead, depending on market conditions.  Buffett Undaunted  The market turmoil hasn’t stopped some acquirers. This
month,  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  made a $3.25
billion unsolicited offer for Transatlantic Holdings Inc.,
seeking to break up a deal the target company had reached with
another insurer. Transatlantic is asking Berkshire to improve
the offer, according to a statement yesterday.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s biggest private-equity
firm, agreed last week to buy Emdeon Inc., a health-care billing
company, for about $3 billion. The company plans to back the
buyout with about $2 billion in debt.  Some conditions are still ripe for deals. The top 1,000
non-financial companies worldwide are sitting on about $3.3
trillion in cash and equivalents stockpiled in the recession,
Bloomberg data show. Companies such as Coal India Ltd. said this
week that they are looking for deals. Last week Smith & Nephew
Plc,  Europe ’s biggest maker of artificial hips and knees, said
it’s seeking “substantial” acquisitions tied to wound care and
minimally invasive surgery.  Fed Pledge  “People are worried and that creates uncertainty, but the
market is not going to shut down,” said Philippe Cerf, Credit
Suisse Group AG’s co-head of technology, media and
telecommunications for Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa .
“There are a lot of companies saying they are going after
midsize strategic acquisitions,” though transformative deals
may be on the back burner.  The U.S. Federal Reserve pledged today for the first time
to keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low at least
through mid-2013 in a bid to revive the flagging economic
recovery.  If the market turmoil continues after the U.S. Labor Day
holiday on Sept. 5, deals may slow down, said Moelis’s Raich.  “While some people will look to be opportunistic, it will
be difficult to get deals done if the market is bouncing around
as much as it has been the last couple of weeks,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  