-- 
BofA Mortgage-Bond Deal Opposed by Delaware Attorney General

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-08-10T18:11:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/delaware-objects-to-bank-of-america-mortgage-bond-settlement.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s $8.5 billion
settlement with mortgage-bond investors drew more state
opposition, as  Delaware  joined  New York  in challenging the
agreement.  Delaware Attorney General  Beau Biden  said yesterday he
opposes the agreement and asked to intervene in the case to
protect investors and preserve the state’s ability to pursue
legal claims.  “I am intervening to enforce our laws and to protect
Delaware investors who may have been harmed by these toxic
securities,” Biden said in a statement. “Intervening in this
settlement puts us in a position to ensure that the banks are
playing by the rules.”  The settlement, which requires court approval, calls for
Bank of America to pay $8.5 billion to resolve claims from
investors in Countrywide Financial Corp. mortgage bonds.
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America acquired
Countrywide in 2008.  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  last week asked
the New York state judge overseeing the case to reject the
settlement, saying it was unfair to investors.  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. (BK) , the trustee for the mortgage-securitization trusts
covered by the settlement, violated New York law, Schneiderman
said.  Delaware Law  Delaware investors in the mortgage bonds would be bound by
the settlement and may not know about it, Biden’s office said in
a court filing.  “The Delaware Department of Justice, based upon the review
of the extremely limited universe of available facts concerning
the proposed settlement, has significant concerns that the
proposed settlement does not adequately remedy the harm suffered
by beneficiaries of the covered trusts,” the attorney general’s
office said.  Bank of New York, which reached the agreement on behalf of
investors, may have violated the Delaware securities act and the
state’s deceptive trade practices act, according to Biden.  There is also evidence that the bank negotiated under a
conflict of interest, Biden’s office said. It said its
investigation of Bank of New York is in preliminary stages.  “We are confident that we have fulfilled in all respects
our responsibilities as trustee,” Kevin Heine, a Bank of New
York spokesman, said in a statement. “We believe the proposed
settlement is reasonable and in the best interests of the
trusts.”  Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is In the matter of Bank of New York Mellon,
651786/2011, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ; 