-- 
Demand Media Climbs After Renewing Google Ad Agreement, Topping Estimates

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-08-09T22:35:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/demand-media-climbs-after-renewing-google-ad-agreement-topping-estimates.html
Demand Media Inc., an online media
company that runs websites such as eHow and  LiveStrong.com ,
jumped in late trading after renewing an ad agreement with
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and reporting sales that topped estimates.  The three-year accord with Google builds on the companies’
current agreement, letting Demand Media show ads sold by Google
on its sites, according to a statement today. The  Santa Monica ,
California-based company gets much of its online traffic from
users of search engines, led by Google.  The deal may help soothe concerns that Google is tinkering
with its search engine to send less traffic toward companies
like Demand Media, which relies on an army of freelancers to
create low-cost websites. Demand Media will be included in
premium channels within Google’s advertising network, the
companies said today.  The accord is “the largest single revenue arrangement in
the history of the company,” Chief Financial Officer Charles Hilliard said in an interview.  Separately, the company reported a 32 percent rise in
second-quarter sales to $79.5 million. That topped the $75
million predicted by analysts, according to Bloomberg data. Its
net loss was $2.4 million, or 3 cents a share, compared with
$1.9 million, or 75 cents, a year earlier. Demand Media is
increasing spending on marketing, overhead and product
development as it expands the business.  The stock rose as much as 20 percent to $10.75 in extended
trading after the news. That added to a 7.4 percent gain in
regular New York Stock Exchange trading, when the shares closed
at $8.98. Still, the stock remains below the level of its
initial public offering in January.  Demand Media was the first U.S. IPO by a venture capital-
backed company in 2011. Its shares since dropped 51 percent
through yesterday, in part because of concerns about Google.  The company also announced two acquisitions today. It
purchased  IndieClick Media Group Inc. , an online ad service, and
the social-media startup RSS Graffiti. Both companies are based
near Demand Media in  Los Angeles . Terms weren’t disclosed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  