-- 
Developer of Walkie-Talkie Skyscraper Holds Talks With Potential Tenants

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-08-09T07:08:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/developer-of-walkie-talkie-skyscraper-holds-talks-with-potential-tenants.html
One of the Walkie-Talkie tower’s
developers is in talks with potential tenants of the building in
the City of  London  financial district, which is due to be
completed in 2014.  The 37-story tower at 20 Fenchurch Street, which is being
constructed by  Canary Wharf  Group Plc and  Land Securities Group
Plc (LAND) , will be leased for at least 50 pounds ($82) a square foot
when it’s completed, Canary Wharf Group Company Secretary John Garwood said in an interview yesterday.  “We are marketing and there are discussions with various
possible tenants,” Garwood said by telephone. “That is a
speculative build, so we’re building that for completion in
2014. It goes back to this belief that there will be a
tightening in market supply.” He declined to identify the
interested parties because the negotiations are private.  Garwood’s company owns about half the buildings in Canary
Wharf, London’s second-largest financial district after the
City, where its only development is the Walkie-Talkie, according
to spokesman Hamish McDougall.  Songbird Estates Plc (SBD)  is Canary
Wharf Group’s largest shareholder with a 69 percent stake.  U.K. developers including Land Securities mothballed most
new projects in 2008, months before the global financial crisis
began, on concern that demand for office and shop space was
waning. That led to a reduced supply of prime office space in
London becoming available before 2014.  The 690,000-square-foot (64,000 square meter) tower, known
as the Walkie-Talkie because of its likeness to a handheld two-
way radio, joins London’s other nicknamed skyscrapers under
construction such as Sellar Property Group Ltd.’s Shard, which
is garnering rents of as much as 70 pounds a square foot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 