-- 
DirecTV Defeats Comcast Bid for Court Order Blocking Ads for NFL Programs

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-09T23:58:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/directv-defeats-comcast-bid-for-court-order-blocking-ads-for-nfl-programs.html
DirecTV (DTV) , the largest U.S. satellite-
television provider, defeated a bid by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  for a court
order blocking its advertisements for National Football League
game packages.  U.S. District Judge Ruben Castillo in  Chicago  today denied
Comcast’s request for a temporary restraining order, DirecTV
said in a statement. Douglas Masters, a lawyer for the biggest
U.S. cable-TV provider, confirmed the ruling.  “The case is moving on to the next phase,” Masters, who is
with Chicago-based law firm Loeb & Loeb LLP, said in a phone
interview. Castillo has scheduled an Aug. 24 evidentiary hearing
on Comcast’s request for a more-permanent injunction.  Comcast sued DirecTV on Aug. 3 alleging that print, radio
and Internet ads touting its NFL Sunday Ticket subscriber
package as free mislead consumers by failing to disclose a
mandatory two-year term, second-year charges and an early
cancellation penalty.  “We’re happy to go head-to-head with Comcast any day on
whose service is superior,” DirecTV Vice President Jon Gieselman said in the company’s statement. “We look forward to
competing in the marketplace rather than the courtroom.”  The El Segundo, California-based satellite-programming
supplier has more than 28 million subscribers, according to its
2010 annual report.  Lost Profit  Comcast, in its complaint, accused DirecTV of false
advertising, unfair competition and consumer fraud. In addition
to an order blocking the ads, the cable provider asked for
unspecified cash damages for lost profit.  The Philadelphia-based company’s units include
NBCUniversal, which produces movies and television shows, and
Comcast-Spectacor, which owns professional hockey’s  Philadelphia
Flyers  and their home arena.  The case is Comcast Cable Communications LLC v. DirecTV
Inc., 11-cv-5284, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  