-- 
Dish Reports Quarterly Profit That Trails Estimates on Customer Losses

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-09T20:26:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/dish-reports-quarterly-profit-that-trails-estimates-on-customer-losses.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-
largest U.S. satellite-television provider, reported profit that
trailed analysts’ estimates after losing subscribers.  Earnings excluding some items were 75 cents a share, the
Englewood, Colorado-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts projected 79 cents, the average of estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  A sluggish economy may hurt Dish more than its competitors,
said Ryan Vineyard, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  New
York . Dish targets lower-income subscribers with cheaper
packages than DirecTV, its larger satellite rival, which used
promotions to lure customers last quarter.  “Dish was not aggressive in the marketplace, and unlike
DirecTV, Dish did not respond to the promotional environment,”
 Todd Mitchell , an analyst at Brean Murray Carret & Co. in New
York, said in a note to clients. He recommends buying the stock.  Dish fell 6 cents to $22.58 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have risen 15 percent
this year.  The company lost 135,000 subscribers in the quarter,
compared with  DirecTV (DTV) ’s gain of 26,000 U.S. customers. Jason Bazinet, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in New York, estimated a
loss of 60,000 for Dish. In the first quarter, Dish gained
58,000 customers, and in the year-earlier period it lost 19,000.  Image Change  Chief Executive Officer Joseph Clayton said on a conference
call today that Dish cut back on promotions and marketing to
lower-income, less profitable customers. Dish has had an image
of being “cheap, cheap, cheap” to consumers and will attempt
to eliminate that message with advertising that showcases the
company’s technology, Clayton said.  “I don’t think we should loosen up our credit standards,”
Clayton said. “In fact, the exact opposite. I’m looking for a
better class of customers” who will buy higher-priced packages.  Dish purchased Blockbuster LLC in April -- a content
advantage over its rivals, said Clayton -- and Sling Media Inc.,
maker of the Slingbox, in 2007. Dish will also unveil new
customer promotions to win back customers in the third and
fourth quarters, Clayton said.  Net income rose to $335 million from $257 million a year
earlier. Sales rose 13 percent to $3.59 billion, compared with
the $3.39 billion average analyst estimate.  ‘Seinfeld’ Strategy  Dish management won’t “tip our hands,” Clayton said, to
give details about its plan to integrate Blockbuster, as well as
DBSD North America Inc. and TerreStar Networks Inc.,
acquisitions that are still pending. In May, Chairman  Charlie Ergen  said Dish’s strategy was like an episode of “Seinfeld,”
with all the parts coming together at the end.  Dish will consider more acquisitions, partnerships and
divestitures as it decides on the best way to use the wireless
spectrum it gains from DBSD and TerreStar, Clayton said.  “Results are consistent with our thesis that Dish is
undergoing a repositioning,” said Mitchell, the analyst. “The
company’s intention is to enhance its service profile by
repurposing itself from a one-way satellite broadcast platform
to a two-way hybrid satellite-wireless network.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  