-- 
Disney Profit Beats Estimates on Pay-TV Fees

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-08-10T00:01:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/disney-profit-beats-estimates-as-pay-tv-fees-drive-gains-at-espn-channels.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the world’s biggest
theme-park operator, posted third-quarter sales and profit that
beat analysts’ estimates as pay-TV fees to the ESPN sports
network countered flat cable advertising sales.  Net income rose 11 percent to $1.48 billion, or 77 cents a
share, from $1.33 billion, or 67 cents, a year ago, Burbank,
California-based Disney said today in a statement. Profit
excluding some items was 78 cents, beating the 73-cent average
of 22 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Cable-network profit rose 10 percent, with ESPN enjoying
gains in fees from pay-TV systems. Theme-park profit advanced
8.8 percent, fueled by higher admission prices at U.S. resorts
and this year’s later Easter break. The consumer products unit
boosted profit with sales of “Cars” and Marvel merchandise.  “This is a little better than expected, but there was
really nothing that’s remarkable in these numbers,” said
 Matthew Harrigan , an analyst with Wunderlich Securities in
Denver who recommends the stock. “The affiliate fees at ESPN
were a little unexpected, and the parks were able to take
advantage of the Easter holiday.”  Disney may consider new discounts at its domestic theme
parks if the economy weakens, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Iger  said on a conference call with analysts, adding “We’re not
thinking of doing that any time soon.”  Attendance at Disney’s domestic theme parks increased by 2
percent, Chief Financial Officer Jay Rasulo said on the call,
and per-capita spending by 8 percent.  Seeking Acquisitions  Disney will continue to make acquisitions, Iger said,
without identifying potential targets. Since becoming CEO in
2005, the company has acquired Pixar and Marvel. Last month,
Disney offered to buy the 49.6 percent of  India ’s UTV Software
Communications Ltd., a production company, it doesn’t own for
$454 million.  “We’re going to continue to deploy capital in this
direction,” Iger said. He estimated that the $13 billion Disney
has spent to acquire companies in the last five years
represented about $23 billion in “enterprise value.”  Disney fell 45 cents to $34.25 in extended trading. The
shares gained $1.67, or 5.1 percent, to $34.70 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading and have declined 7.5
percent this year.  Sales in the period ended July 2 gained 6.7 percent to
$10.7 billion, exceeding analysts’ projections of $10.5 billion.  Cable Revenue  Cable revenue advanced 7.2 percent to $3.52 billion, with
fees from pay-TV systems countering ad sales at ESPN that were
little changed, the company said.  ABC’s profit rose 20 percent to $250 million, benefiting
from lower production costs and higher network advertising.
Total revenue from broadcasting decreased 1 percent to $1.43
billion, reflecting lower ad sales at local television stations,
Disney said.  Profit at Disney’s consumer products division increased 32
percent to $155 million, buoyed by merchandise from the “Cars”
animated movies and the Marvel character line. Revenue rose 13
percent to $685 million.  Revenue at Disney’s parks division increased 12 percent to
$3.17 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  