-- 
Dubai Stocks Retreat as Global Growth Concern Roils Markets

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-08-09T10:33:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/dubai-stocks-retreat-as-global-growth-concern-roils-markets.html
Persian Gulf shares slumped, sending
Dubai’s index to the lowest since March, amid a global rout in
equities spurred by concern the global economy is slowing and
the U.S. may enter a recession. Oil tumbled.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest
tower, slid 2.8 percent.  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the U.A.E.’s biggest
bank by assets, slumped to the lowest since May. The  DFM General
Index (DFMGI)  dropped 2 percent to 1,444.29, the lowest since March 9,
at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of the
region’s stocks was down 2.2 percent at 1:04 p.m. in Riyadh and
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index had retreated as much as 4.4
percent.  “The world has started the week in a capitulation mode
with fears of a recession and time will need to pass before we
start seeing differentiation,” said  Yazan Abdeen , a Dubai-based
Middle East and North Africa fund manager who helps oversee $250
million at ING Investment Management (Dubai) Ltd. “The currency
peg in addition to the reserves domicile will test the sentiment
of spending.”  U.S. Federal Reserve policy makers will hold a one-day
meeting today as  Standard & Poor’s  unprecedented downgrade of
the country’s top credit rating on Aug. 5 fuelled speculation
that the nation is headed for a recession. Economic reports
showed  China ’s inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in
three years in July, limiting the scope for monetary easing as
risks to the global economy mount.  The S&P 500 Index dropped the most since December 2008
yesterday, losing 6.7 percent. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index,
which last week entered a so-called correction, slumped as much
as 5.5 percent today. About $7.8 trillion has been wiped from
global stock markets in the last 10 trading days.  Oil for September delivery slid as much as 6.9 percent to
$75.71 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The six
nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council, including the United
Arab Emirates and  Saudi Arabia , supply about a fifth of the
world’s oil. Five of the six GCC nations peg their currencies to
the  U.S. dollar . Kuwait links its dinar to a basket of
currencies.  Emaar declined to 2.75 dirhams, the lowest since March 15.
Emirates NBD lost 2.3 percent to 3.9 dirhams, the lowest level
since May 31.  Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA)  dropped to the
lowest since May 26, losing 3.3 percent to 1.17 dirhams, after
the state-run utility’s underground gas-storage project in
Holland was temporarily suspended by a Dutch court.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  and the Kuwait Stock Exchange
Unweighted Index decreased 1.3 percent while Oman’s MSM 30 Index
and Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  declined 1.8 percent. Bahrain’s gauge
slipped 0.7 percent and Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX) 
slumped 2.5 percent.  -- Editors: Chris Peterson, Alan Purkiss  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  