-- 
E*Trade Fires Morgan Stanley After Griffin’s Citadel Complains

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-08-09T00:24:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/e-trade-fires-morgan-stanley-after-griffin-s-citadel-complains.html
E*Trade Financial Corp. fired Morgan
Stanley, selected last month to help explore a sale of the
online brokerage, after shareholder Citadel LLC challenged the
process by which the firm was hired.  E*Trade agreed to replace Morgan Stanley with  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and put a different group of directors in charge of
the review process, it said in a statement today. In exchange,
Citadel, the Chicago hedge-fund firm run by  Ken Griffin , agreed
to drop efforts to force the changes through a shareholder vote
and to remove two directors.  Griffin injected $2.55 billion into the company in November
2007 to help E*Trade stave off bankruptcy after losses tied to
bad mortgages. He joined the board in 2009 and cut Citadel’s
stake to less than 10 percent this year.  The shares have dropped more than 95 percent since June
2007 and 29 percent in the past 12 months.  On July 20, Citadel called publicly for E*Trade to hire an
investment banker to help consider a sale of the company, saying
that it had “endured nearly four years of value destruction.”
Citadel also called for the removal of two directors, Michael Parks and Donna Weaver.  E*Trade responded two days later by agreeing to a strategic
review overseen by a special board committee of independent
directors that reported to the board’s Finance and Risk
Oversight Committee, and said the special committee selected
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  for advice.  Citadel said it wasn’t satisfied with the changes, and
would continue to push for a special meeting of shareholders. It
said the special committee shouldn’t report to the Finance and
Risk Oversight Committee because that panel is overseen by
Parks, a director since 2003. Parks oversaw a “stunning failure
in strategy and risk management during his tenure,” Citadel
said in a regulatory filing.  E*Trade today said it would put only recently joined
directors on the special committee, and have it report to the
full board.  Spokespeople for Morgan Stanley, E*Trade, and Citadel
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 