-- 
Egyptian Economy to Contract 3.3% This Year, EFG-Hermes Says

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-08-09T10:17:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/egyptian-economy-to-contract-3-3-this-year-efg-hermes-says-1-.html
Egypt’s economy may contract 3.3
percent this year, EFG-Hermes Holding SAE said, instead of the
2.5 percent it estimated in February after the uprising that
ousted  Hosni Mubarak  from the presidency.  “Consumption remains significantly down” on a year-on-
year basis, EFG, the biggest publicly traded investment bank in
Egypt, said in a statement. “We expect a weaker recovery in
investment, which will require greater clarity on the political
environment.”  The economy is still reeling from the unrest that erupted
in January and hit revenue from industries such as tourism. The
economy contracted at an annual rate of 4.2 percent in the
quarter that ended in March and investment decreased 26 percent
in the same period, the central bank said on June 9.  EFG estimates that real gross domestic product growth will
be 3 percent in 2012. This will be “led by a recovery in
private consumption and supported by increased tourism, although
political developments remain a key factor,” it said.  The ruling military council, which took over interim
authority when Mubarak stepped down on Feb. 11, says it will
hand over power after parliamentary elections, expected later
this year, and a subsequent presidential vote. Political groups
have sparred over the timing of elections and the process of
writing a new constitution.  ‘Political Tension’  “ Egypt ’s economic outlook will remain predominantly subject
to political developments over the coming months, with the
election results likely to provide more clarity on the country’s
economic outlook,” EFG said. “Until then, economic activity is
likely to be dampened by short periods of instability and rising
political tension, as well as policy uncertainty and an unstable
security situation.”  EFG estimated the  budget deficit  will be 9.9 percent of GDP
in the current fiscal year, which started last month. Egypt cut
its budget-deficit target for this fiscal year to 8.6 percent of
GDP from 9.5 percent in the year that ended in June.  “We believe the new budget, out in July, attempts to
balance between providing support to domestic demand and
containing the widening deficit,” EFG said. “We expect
 government spending  to provide some support to private
consumption in 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 