-- 
Meltzer, O’Sullivan Say Dissents Highlight Divisions on FOMC

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-08-09T21:55:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/meltzer-o-sullivan-say-dissents-highlight-divisions-on-fomc.html
Fed historian  Allan Meltzer , a
professor at  Carnegie Mellon University , and  James O’Sullivan ,
chief economist for MF Global Inc. in  New York , said dissents by
three Federal Reserve policy makers at today’s meeting in
Washington highlight divisions among policy makers. They spoke
after the majority on the  Federal Open Market Committee  voted to
keep the benchmark interest rate at a record low at least
through mid-2013.  Christina Romer , former chairman of the White House Council
of Economic Advisers who teaches at the  University of
California , Berkeley; Jason Schenker, president of Prestige
Economics LLC;  Paul Ballew , chief economist at Nationwide Mutual
Insurance Co.; and Jerry Webman, chief economist at
OppenheimerFunds Inc., also commented.  Meltzer:  “The Fed can’t do much because it’s already done too much.
It’s pretty much impotent.”  “We have one and a half trillion in idle reserves in the
banking system, and  interest rates  are the lowest levels ever.
QE2 was a foolish move and adds to the inflationary pressures
we’re going to see after time,” he said, referring to the
second round of so-called quantitative easing.  “Three dissents tell the market that there isn’t agreement
and it’s going to be more difficult for the Fed to do anything.
The Fed likes to operate as much as it can on a consensus.”  O’Sullivan:  “To have three dissents highlights the real divisions on
the Fed right now.”  The decision to keep rates low at least through mid-2013 is
“a dramatic commitment on the funds rate that’s clearly
extremely dovish and shows clear bias toward more potential
purchases.”  Romer:  “I find the statement about as aggressive as the Fed could
have been in this situation: Certainly, more aggressive than I
was anticipating.”  “What they said about the deterioration in the outlook was
pretty extreme.”  Fed Chairman Bernanke Ben S. Bernanke “has seemed a little
afraid of dissent in the past and the fact that he and others
are willing to have such an open fight says there is a group
that is willing to fight.”  She said there may be more challenges in the future, given
“they’re willing to tolerate that many dissents.”  Schenker:  “The statement indicates there was a very hot debate over
what policy tools to use, and they opted for one of the only
things they have. While the 2013 commitment sounds good, it
doesn’t assuage current market fears, and rising concerns of a
return to recession.”  “This is not a good statement. Fiscal policy is completely
tapped out. If we need accommodative policy, the only game in
town is the Fed.”  Ballew:  “Ultimately, the big issue for the U.S. and global economy
is, ‘What else are we asking the Fed to do?’ ”  “We have structural problems in the economy that are
somewhat out of the Fed’s control.”  “The statement did what it needed to do today, which is
send the message to markets that policy will remain
accommodative for a long period of time, and inject a degree of
calm into the market.  ‘‘ Monetary policy  is going to remain in an extraordinarily
accommodative position for five-plus years, starting in 2008,
and it’s unbelievable when you think about it. The severity and
complexity of this downturn has put us in a position we never
thought we would see. We’re looking at an exit strategy not
being implemented over the next couple of years. This recovery
is so tepid and encumbered by so many structural problems, the
Fed could stay on the sidelines beyond 2013.”  Webman:  “The Fed is in a predicament. That is, they’re in a
situation where they don’t want to claim to be taking an action
that’s not going to have a clear impact on the economy or
financial markets. Right now, it’s doubtful there’s anything the
Fed could do in one shot -- today, tomorrow, or in the next
couple of months -- that could have an enormous impact on the
economy.”  “By not taking further action and telling us the economic
situation is worse than they thought, they’re essentially saying
that there’s not a monetary policy initiative they can take
right now that would address the weakness.”  As for keeping rates low at least through mid-2013, “I’m
surprised they didn’t hedge it. They were bending the yield
curve in a very certain way. It’s very difficult to tell if
that’s a good idea. The immediate response is positive. Longer-
term, does easy money for a long period of time necessarily help
the economy? That remains to be seen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  