-- 
Emerging Stocks Slump Sixth Day on Deepening Concern Global Growth to Slow

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-08-09T21:26:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/emerging-market-stocks-decline-for-sixth-day-on-global-economy-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks tumbled for a
sixth day, the longest losing streak for the benchmark index
since February, as concern deepened that the global economy may
stall.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 2.2 percent to 968.51
at 5 p.m. in  New York , paring an earlier plunge of as much as
4.4 percent after the  Federal Reserve  pledged for the first time
to keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low at least
through mid-2013 to revive the U.S. economic recovery. Russia’s
ruble weakened 3.1 percent against the dollar.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index sank 6.2 percent
after a report showed China’s inflation accelerated to the
fastest pace in three years in July, limiting the scope for
monetary easing to support growth in the world’s second-biggest
economy. U.K. manufacturing unexpectedly fell in June and the
trade gap widened, adding to evidence that the economic
expansion in developed countries is faltering.  “The economic turmoil may drag down the stock market for
the short term and keep it fluctuating at a bottom for some
time,” said Sun Zhanjun, a  fund manager  at Bosera Asset
Management Co., which oversees more than $29 billion. “The
overwhelming pessimism has swept all markets.”  Weaker-than-estimated economic data from the U.S. to
 Brazil , along with the unprecedented downgrade of America’s
credit rating by  Standard & Poor’s  and  Europe ’s ongoing debt
crisis, have wiped out $7.9 trillion of global equity market
capitalization since July 26. The Federal Open Market Committee
is “prepared to employ” additional tools to bolster an economy
hobbled by weak hiring and anemic household spending, it said in
a statement today in  Washington .  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose nine basis points to 365,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  The Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA Index of credit-default swaps
for emerging Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa  jumped 22 basis
points today to 255, the highest level since June 2010,
according to data provider CMA in London. Yield spreads on
Turkish foreign-currency debt rose 16 basis points, while
Ukrainian spreads jumped 42 basis points, according to JPMorgan
indexes.  Russia’s ruble fell to the weakest level versus the dollar
since January, while South Africa’s rand gained 1.2 percent.
 Poland ’s zloty dropped 0.1 percent versus the euro and the
Hungarian forint climbed 0.9 percent.  Bear Markets  Benchmark equity indexes in  China , Brazil, Chile,  Turkey ,
Colombia, Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary have retreated
at least 20 percent from recent peaks during the global selloff,
the level some investors and analysts consider a bear market.  “The current situation could be seen as a fast, complete
and unexpected loss of confidence that has been building up over
the past few weeks,” Vincent Treulet, the Paris-based head of
strategy at BNP Paribas Investment Partners, wrote in a report.
“We do not recommend selling anything now. It would not be too
late to sell in case a serious crisis materializes, but there
are good arguments in favor of at least a stabilization or
technical rebound in the near term.”  The Hang Seng China gauge of shares in  Hong Kong  tumbled
the most since March 2009, while the Shanghai Composite Index of
mainland-traded shares slipped less than 0.1 percent. Consumer
prices climbed 6.5 percent from a year earlier as food costs
surged, reports from the Beijing-based National Bureau of
Statistics showed today. That was more than the 6.4 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 26 economists. In
June, inflation was 6.4 percent.  Bovespa Rises  Elevated inflation shows that China is still dealing with
the after-effects of an unprecedented monetary expansion during
the last global slump and may have limited room for more
stimulus. At the same time, a weaker-than-forecast gain in
industrial production added to signs that a moderation in
economic growth may help to cool price pressures.  Brazil’s Bovespa index surged 5.1 percent today, the most
since October 2009, rebounding from yesterday’s plunge of 8.1
percent.  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  lost 0.1 percent. Turkey’s  ISE
National 100 Index (XU100)  rose 1.3 percent. The Czech PX index dropped
2.6 percent, while Hungary’s BUX Index slipped 2.5 percent and
Poland’s WIG20 retreated 3.7 percent.  Losses in  South Korea  and Taiwan dragged benchmark stocks
indexes in the two markets down more than 20 percent from their
recent highs during intraday trading.  Short Sale Curbs  Taiwan’s government bought stocks yesterday and this
morning through four funds it controls, said Philip Yang, a
Cabinet spokesman. The Taiex briefly climbed as much as 0.6
percent before erasing gains.  South Korea’s financial regulator will prohibit short sales
of all listed stocks until Nov. 9 starting tomorrow, the
regulator said today. Short selling has increased during the
current market rout, spreading market unrest, the statement
said. The commission will also ease the daily volume limit on
companies’ buying back shares, it said.  In a short sale, an investor borrows a security and sells
it, expecting to profit from a decline by repurchasing it later
at a lower price.  Corporate earnings may buffer concerns over U.S. and
European debt and the Kospi may reach a bottom this week, Kim
Hee Seok, head of the South Korea’s National Pension Service’s
investment strategy division, said by phone yesterday. The
National Pension Service is the nation’s biggest investor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Patterson in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  