-- 
Emerging Stocks Priced for Profit Tumble Signal Bottom to Morgan Stanley

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-08-10T21:15:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/emerging-stocks-priced-for-profit-tumble-signal-bottom-to-morgan-stanley.html
The lowest developing-nation equity
valuations since January 2009 are a sign that the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index’s worst tumble in three years is nearing an end,
according to strategists at three of the world’s biggest banks.  Concern that global economic growth is faltering sent the
measure down 15 percent this month through yesterday, to 8.9
times estimated profits, 30 percent below the 20-year average,
data compiled by Bloomberg and Morgan Stanley show. Valuations
imply emerging-market earnings will drop about 20 percent in the
next 12 months, according to the New York-based bank.  The retreat may be overdone because rising consumer demand
in developing nations will boost profits by 3 percent even if
advanced economies slip toward recession,  Europe ’s debt crisis
worsens and China keeps a tight monetary policy, said  Jonathan Garner , Morgan Stanley’s chief Asia and emerging-markets
strategist. Shares may hit bottom within days, said Jason Press
at Citigroup Inc. Valuations are at levels seen two years ago
after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse and in the 1990s
emerging-market crises, said Nicholas Smithie at UBS AG.  “Stocks look like buys,” Smithie, the New York-based
emerging-market strategist at UBS, Switzerland’s biggest lender,
said in an Aug. 8 telephone interview. “There has to be a
Lehman-style collapse in economic activity and stress in the
financial system for these valuations to be justified.”  $7 Trillion  Investors who purchased shares when the MSCI emerging index
fell below 9 times earnings in October 2008 were rewarded with a
60 percent rally during the next 12 months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge jumped 44 percent in the year
after valuations tumbled that low in August 1998, the month
 Russia  defaulted on $40 billion of debt, the data show.  The index climbed 1.3 percent to 980.74 at 4:30 p.m. New
York time. The gauge’s drop in the past six days was the biggest
since October 2008, a month after Lehman’s bankruptcy roiled
world markets and helped spark a global recession. The
unprecedented downgrade of America’s top credit rating by
 Standard & Poor’s , weaker-than-estimated U.S. economic data and
signs that Italy and Spain may struggle to refinance debt have
eroded investor confidence in riskier assets this month, erasing
almost $7 trillion of stock-market value.  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s second-largest maker
of mobile phones, and OAO Gazprom, Russia’s natural-gas export
monopoly, led declines in emerging markets as benchmark equity
indexes in Brazil, Russia,  India  and China fell more than 20
percent from recent highs. MSCI’s emerging-market gauge pared
declines yesterday after the  Federal Reserve  pledged to keep its
benchmark interest rate at a record low at least through mid-
2013 and closed down 2.2 percent.  Record Profits  There are no signs yet of a collapse in emerging-market
earnings. Second-quarter profits at MSCI index companies jumped
by an average 30 percent, more than five times the  MSCI World (MXWO) 
Index’s 5.6 percent gain, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Twelve-month earnings per share in the emerging index
climbed to a record high of $95 last month and may increase 19
percent in the next 12 months, according to the average of more
than 12,000 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Garner at
Morgan Stanley, the sixth-largest  U.S. bank , said his “base
case” estimate is for earnings growth of 13 percent.  Developing economies will probably expand 6.4 percent next
year, compared with 2.6 percent in advanced nations, according
to June estimates from the  International Monetary Fund .  Stocks are “pricing in an earnings recession, which
certainly does not seem to be the case,” Press, a New York-
based emerging-market strategist at Citigroup, the third-biggest
U.S. bank, said in an Aug. 8 phone interview. “The market panic
has gone too far.”  Higher Rates  While analysts are projecting higher profits during the
next 12 months, they trimmed forecasts by about 3.8 percent
since mid-July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Estimates are likely to drop further as weaker global growth
erodes companies’ earnings prospects and central banks in some
developing countries tighten monetary policy, said  Adrian Mowat ,
the chief  Asia  and emerging-market strategist at JPMorgan Chase
& Co. in  Hong Kong .  Brazil and India raised  interest rates  five times this year
to curb inflation, while China lifted borrowing costs three
times. A Chinese government report yesterday showed inflation in
the world’s second-largest economy accelerated to 6.5 percent in
July, the fastest pace in three years.  “I don’t think the buy point for these markets is now,”
Mowat said in an Aug. 8 phone interview. “What signals the end
of this tightening cycle is weaker economic data followed by
lower inflation. That is probably an event that is some point in
the fourth quarter.”  Reversing Forecasts  Falling commodities have already eased inflation pressures
in emerging markets, spurring traders to abandon expectations
for further rate increases. The S&P GSCI Spot Index of 24
commodities dropped 18 percent from this year’s high on April 8.  China’s inflation rate may have peaked in July,  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management in  London ,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television yesterday.  Yields on  Brazil ’s interest-rate futures indicate that
policy makers will cut the benchmark interest rate from 12.5
percent by December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. As
recently as July 15, futures showed the central bank would raise
borrowing costs this month. Traders in India also are tearing up
predictions for an interest-rate increase as soon as next month
as the government says lower commodities may cut inflation.  ‘Outstanding Value’  Concern about “inflation and policy tightening in Asia and
emerging markets is clearly ending,” Morgan Stanley’s Garner
said in an Aug. 8 phone interview. “In our base case, there
would be outstanding value in the market here.”  The Hong Kong-based strategist’s “scenario-weighted” 2011
target for the MSCI index is 1,305, or 35 percent higher than
yesterday’s level. Garner’s “bear case” estimate for the gauge
is 940. Investors should favor shares of companies that sell to
domestic customers and hold “overweight” positions in  China ,
Russia, Brazil and  South Korea , he said.  For billionaire investor  Wilbur Ross , the selloff has
created long-term buying opportunities in emerging markets even
if prices don’t bottom in the next few days.  “We’ve been pecking away at things as they decline,”
Ross, chairman and chief executive officer of WL Ross & Co.,
said in an Aug. 9 interview on Bloomberg Television. There’s
“plenty that’s attractive in the emerging markets,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 