-- 
Engagement With Cuba Is Way to Undermine Communist Rule: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-09T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/engagement-with-cuba-is-way-to-undermine-communist-rule-view.html
Ever since  Fidel Castro  seized power
in  Cuba  in 1959, the U.S. has sought to undermine his rule. It
hasn’t worked. Perhaps officials in Washington should consider
adapting the more successful strategy pursued to undermine
communism in Eastern Europe.  The Castro regime has been a tragedy for the Cuban people.
After taking over, Castro imposed a doctrinaire communist
dictatorship that eliminated political freedoms and gave the
state and the  Communist Party  almost complete control of the
economy. Until 1991, Cuba was sustained by generous subsidies
from the  Soviet Union . In response to Castro’s alliance with the
Soviets, his support for revolution throughout  Latin America ,
and his denial of basic freedoms to the Cuban people, the U.S.
imposed an embargo and severely limited Cubans’ contacts with
Americans. During the 1960s, the U.S. also tried to assassinate
Castro and sponsored an ill-planned invasion of the island by
Cuban exiles.  Yet the Castro dictatorship remains firmly in power, now
under President Raul Castro, Fidel’s brother.  In September 2010, Fidel Castro admitted to journalist
 Jeffrey Goldberg  (now a Bloomberg View columnist) that socialism
no longer worked, even in Cuba. Castro’s regime might even lose
its latest benefactor if Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , who
sells oil to the government in Havana at reduced prices, dies or
is forced to leave office for health reasons.  In recent months, Raul Castro’s government has enacted
small reforms, such as allowing Cubans to purchase  DVD players ,
computers and mobile phones. This year, the regime took its most
significant step: By the end of 2011, Cubans will be allowed to
buy and sell real estate, subject to as-yet-unspecified
restrictions. The government also said it would eliminate more
than 1 million state jobs to force workers to find private-
sector employment; and it will loosen state controls on
agriculture and small business.  Raul Castro  is at best a transitional figure, whose goal is
to reform the communist economic system, not replace it. In
April, the Sixth Congress of the Communist Party of Cuba
approved the legalization of real-estate transactions, but
emphasized that the role of private property would remain small
to avoid “capitalism and its hunger for luxury.” Raul Castro has
shown no inclination to loosen the Communist Party’s total
control of politics.  The U.S. should have learned long ago that cutting trade
links and stopping contact between Americans and Cubans haven’t
worked to undermine communist rule.  In the case of communism in Eastern Europe and the Soviet
Union, officials in Washington chose a different strategy. The
U.S. maintained diplomatic and trade relations, allowed tourists
and businessmen to visit, and encouraged cultural exchanges.
After the fall of the  Berlin Wall  in 1989, Eastern Europeans
recalled how their chance encounters with Westerners gave them
access to uncensored news and a chance to compare their lives
with those in democratic, free-market societies. For many behind
the Iron Curtain, having to negotiate with a Western backpacker
for unavailable goods, such as blue jeans, demonstrated
communism’s bankruptcy.  President  Barack Obama  has loosened the ban on travel to
Cuba, allowing Cuban Americans to travel as many times as they
wish without the need for a license from the Treasury.  The administration should take the next step: allow
Americans without family in Cuba to visit the island. While this
would provide additional tourism revenue, it would also
undermine the regime’s effort to maintain its monopoly on the
flow of information. When the U.S. Interests Section in  Havana 
began streaming uncensored news on a Times Square-like ticker
tape around its building, Cuban officials complained bitterly
that the U.S. was interfering in Cuba’s internal affairs.  Obama should also seek to strengthen Cuba’s fledgling
private sector. One approach would be to create an exemption in
U.S. law that would let Americans buy Cuban goods produced by
private farmers or other small businesses. Those who support the
embargo say the U.S. should change its policies only when the
government in Cuba does. It is up to American hardliners to
explain why it isn’t in the U.S. interest to promote private
enterprise.  For 50 years, the Castro family has bedeviled the
government in  Washington . But as we have seen in the Arab
Spring, sometimes small changes and simple acts can prompt
historic events. It’s worth a try.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 