-- 
Tepco Reports $7.4 Billion Quarterly Loss, Says No Chance of Insolvency

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-08-09T09:52:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/tepco-reports-572-billion-yen-quarterly-loss-after-fukushima-1-.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. said it had
a loss of 572 billion ($7.4 billion) as it took charges to pay
for cleaning up its wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant and
compensating people affected by the crisis.  The utility known as Tepco booked charges of 503 billion
yen as part of costs associated with the disaster, according to
a statement released today. Tepco in May announced a loss of
1.25 trillion yen, the biggest for a non-financial company in
 Japan , for the year ended March 31.  The government will set up a state-backed entity with 2
trillion yen of funds to back-up Tepco’s compensation payments
to those affected by the nuclear disaster, Trade and Industry
Minister  Banri Kaieda  said Aug. 3.  “After we start receiving funds from the government-backed
entity, there will be no possibility of liabilities exceeding
assets,” President Toshio Nishizawa told reporters at a news
conference in Tokyo today.  The company may face as much as 11 trillion yen in claims
after the March 11 quake and tsunami caused three reactor
meltdowns, Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit said about
three weeks after the disaster. Radiation leaks forced 160,000
residents to evacuate.  “Nobody thinks the compensation payments will be less than
1 trillion yen, but Tepco won’t book charges like that because
it would bankrupt the company,” Reiji Ogino, an analyst at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley in Tokyo, said before the earnings
announcement.  Radiation Containment  Shares of the company closed unchanged at 389 yen after
falling as much as 14 percent during the day. The stock is down
about 80 percent since the day before the disaster.  Tepco  said  it booked an “extraordinary loss” of 105.3
billion yen for the quarter, bringing the total to 1.12 trillion
yen for covering costs associated with the worst nuclear crisis
since Chernobyl in 1986.  The charge covers work on the containment of radiation
releases at the Fukushima plant as well as repairs to
transmission and generation equipment damaged by the quake and
tsunami and the extra costs for using thermal fuel to generate
electricity, it said. The loss includes charges for canceling
plans to build two more reactors at Fukushima.  Fuel costs in the quarter rose 29 percent to 405 billion
yen as the company was forced to use more coal, oil and gas for
power generation to replace lost nuclear capacity.  The company set aside 397.7 billion yen of expenses for
compensating those affected by the crisis, including 309.4
billion yen for “opportunity losses” of individuals working or
living in evacuation zones and businesses including agriculture,
fisheries and forestry.  ‘Mental Blow’  A further 88.2 billion yen of expenses was set aside to
cover the “mental blow” to evacuees. All expenses are
estimates at this stage, Tepco said.  Tepco aims to start paying compensation by the end of
October based on guidelines set by the government, Nishizawa
said. Tepco had paid 70.9 billion yen in compensation by August
4, according to Katsuyuki Sumiyoshi, general manager at Tepco’s
accounting and treasury department.  The company sold assets worth 11.5 billion yen in the
quarter, including its stake in a joint venture to invest in
Uranium One Inc. of  Canada  with Toshiba Corp. and  Japan Bank for
International Cooperation , Manabu Takeyama, a spokesman at the
utility said. Tepco said earlier it will raise 600 billion yen
from selling assets. The company aims to complete plans to
reorganize by the end of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  