-- 
Erdogan Risks Kurdish Flare-Up Weakening Turkey Role Model for Arab Spring

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-08-09T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/erdogan-risks-kurdish-flare-up-weakening-turkey-role-model-for-arab-spring.html
As Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  urges Arab leaders to heed popular demands for change,
in Turkey’s southeast violence and political protests are
spreading among Kurds.  Fighting between the army and Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or
PKK, has escalated this year, leaving at least 107 people dead.
Meanwhile, the group’s political ally, the main legal Kurdish
party, has declared autonomy for the region after making record
gains in national elections.  Erdogan, who has promised an end to the three-decade war,
has toughened his line in recent weeks. He accused Kurdish
politicians of “dancing to their own tune” and announced plans
to beef up special operation teams. A flare-up in the conflict
could undermine Erdogan’s effort to position  Turkey  as a stable,
democratic role model for Arab neighbors gripped by unrest.  “Turkey cannot itself be a model at the moment when the
process of nation-building is far from complete,” said Fadi Hakura, an analyst at Chatham House research institute in
 London . “There’s growing ethnic antagonism in Turkey and that
is the ultimate fear: that it’s feeding a growing polarization
that can reach a point of no return.”  Turkey’s war with the PKK has left 40,000 people dead,
mostly Kurds. The movement, classified as a terrorist group by
the U.S. and European Union as well as Turkey, demands self-
government for the Kurds, who make up about 20 percent of
Turkey’s 74 million people.  Parliament Boycott  The conflict has taken as much as $10 billion a year out of
Turkey’s budget, as well as scaring off business, said Huseyin
Yayman, a researcher at the Foundation for Political, Economic
and Social Research in Ankara. “For foreign investors and
people planning to invest in the region, violence constitutes a
problem,” he said.  Erdogan’s economic growth record is under threat: the lira
has slid more than 8 percent since the start of July, the most
among global currencies. A second-quarter trade deficit of
almost $30 billion was the biggest ever.  The Peace and Democracy Party, linked to the PKK, won 36
seats in Turkey’s 550-member legislature on June 12, then
boycotted parliament after five of its lawmakers failed to win
release from prison to attend. Another, Hatip Dicle, was
stripped of his seat, which was then allocated to a runner-up
from Erdogan’s governing party.  The party called a July 14 congress in Diyarbakir, the
biggest Kurdish city, and declared autonomy. The same day, 13
soldiers were killed in a firefight with the PKK in the
countryside outside Diyarbakir.  PKK Problem  Erdogan has gone farther than past Turkish leaders in
seeking to meet Kurdish demands. In the last six years he has
lifted emergency rule in the southeast, started a state-run
television channel in Kurdish and allowed broadcasts, print and
music distribution in the language. Restrictions on its use in
schools remain.  After those measures there is no longer a Kurdish problem,
just a PKK problem, Erdogan has repeatedly said.  Many Kurds see the rights they have gained as fruits of the
armed struggle, not gifts from Erdogan, and say they don’t go
far enough.  Mehmet Damlayici, a 41-year-old building contractor who
lost three brothers in the conflict, said he supports the
Kurdish declaration of autonomy. Conditions may have improved,
yet state officials still wouldn’t let him name his son Chekdar,
meaning “heavy weaponry” in Kurdish, he said in an interview.  ‘War and Deadlock’  “The point we’ve reached is the result of a 30-year
guerrilla struggle,” Damlayici said. “The PKK is our
insurance.”  Turkey’s army, which has argued that concessions to Kurds
would undermine national unity, has lost its political influence
under Erdogan, who has supported investigations into alleged
coup plots that have put more than 40 serving generals behind
bars. Chief of General Staff Isik Kosaner, who quit July 27
along with three top aides, said the probes cast the army as a
“criminal gang.”  The Peace and Democracy Party welcomed the departure of
Kosaner and his colleagues as a victory for civilian rule over
the military. Erdogan has pointed to the army as an obstacle to
ending the Kurdish conflict, and is now free to pursue peace
instead of “war and deadlock,” the Kurdish party’s co-leader,
Filiz Kocali, said on Aug. 1.  That means negotiating with PKK leader  Abdullah Ocalan ,
serving a life sentence in an island prison in the Marmara Sea,
she said, adding that there are no signs that the government is
shifting in that direction.  Unofficial Dialogue  Erdogan, like other Turkish leaders, publicly rules out
talks with the PKK. Instead, he has proposed to strengthen
Turkey’s special-operations forces -- a hardening stance that
recalls policies of the mid-1990s, when the conflict was at its
peak, Chatham House’s Hakura said.  Unofficially, Turkey has maintained a dialogue with Ocalan
through various channels for almost 20 years, according to a
report published in June by the Turkish Economic and Social
Studies Foundation. Its author, Cengiz Candar, says Turkey needs
to recognize the importance of the PKK and Ocalan’s “cult
personality” among Kurds if it wants to end the conflict.  Erdogan’s plan to rewrite a constitution inherited from
Turkey’s last military coup in 1980 offers an opportunity to
meet some Kurdish demands. Failure to do so risks igniting the
kind of popular unrest that Arab countries, including Turkey’s
southeastern neighbor, have experienced this year.  “Uprisings won’t just stop at the Turkey-Syria border,”
Candar said. “They’ll carry on across it, via the Kurds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 