-- 
Estonia’s Rating Raised to AA- by S&P on Economic Growth, Strong Finances

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-08-09T12:43:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/estonia-s-rating-raised-to-aa-by-s-p-on-growth-finances-1-.html
Estonia ’s credit rating was raised by
Standard & Poor’s Ratings to the second-highest level in eastern
 Europe  on the Baltic country’s strong economic growth and solid
public finances.  The long-term foreign and local currency bond rating was
increased by two notches to AA-, the fourth-highest investment
grade, from A, S&P said today in an e-mailed statement. The
outlook was lowered to stable. S&P rates Slovenia AA and
Slovakia, the third eastern European euro member, A+.  Estonia’s economy grew 8.5 percent from a year earlier in
the first quarter, the fastest pace in the 27-member European
Union. The country, which adopted the euro in January, has
benefited from rising demand for its exports in Sweden and
 Finland  after suffering the bloc’s second-deepest recession in
2008 and 2009, when the economy shrank by almost a fifth.  “I was expecting a one-notch upgrade by S&P so the two-
notch upgrade came as a positive surprise, especially given the
increased pessimism on global-growth momentum and financial
markets in recent weeks,”  Yarkin Cebeci , an Istanbul-based
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said by e-mail.  Fitch raised Estonia’s rating to A+, the fifth-highest
investment grade, on July 5, citing similar reasons after the
government implemented austerity measures equal to 9 percent of
gross domestic product in 2009. Moody’s rates Estonia A1, its
fifth-highest investment grade. Estonia finished 2010 with the
EU’s only budget surplus and the bloc’s lowest public debt.  Strong Growth  “We believe Estonia will be able to sustain strong
economic growth while maintaining a close-to-balanced government
budget and an improved external position over the medium term,”
S&P said.  While Estonia has no outstanding bonds, investors speculate
on its creditworthiness by trading credit-default swaps. Five-
year Estonian CDS closed 2 points higher yesterday at 115,
according to prices from data provider CMA. The third-riskiest
EU member two years ago, it’s now among the 10 safest.  S&P’s decision reflects rising trustworthiness of the
Estonian economy, the central bank’s Deputy Governor Ulo Kaasik
said today in an e-mailed comment. The government should
maintain conservative policies and set stricter limits for
future budget spending, he added.  ‘Exceptionally Good’  “Estonia’s economic and fiscal situation looks
exceptionally good, particularly in the context of some other
euro-zone economies,”  Violeta Klyviene , a Vilnius-based
economist at Danske Bank A/S, said by e-mail. “This doesn’t
mean there are no challenges or problems over the medium term --
slowing external demand, relatively high unemployment.”  Exports of goods grew 43 percent from a year earlier in
June, the slowest pace in four months, the statistics office
said today. The  unemployment rate  was 14.4 percent in the first
quarter.  The country’s ruling coalition, which won a March 6 general
election, is seeking to balance the budget and accumulate gold
and foreign-currency reserves during its four-year term. The $19
billion economy may grow 6.3 percent this year and 4.2 percent
in 2012 and 2013, the central bank forecast in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  