-- 
European Bank Stress Gauges Hit Levels Not Seen Since Lehman

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-08-09T16:17:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/european-bank-stress-measurements-hit-levels-unseen-since-lehman-collapse.html
Measures that gauge the level of
European banks’ reluctance to lend to one another are
approaching levels unseen since the aftermath of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s collapse.  Banks in the region are paying the biggest premium to
borrow in dollars since December 2008, with the three-month
cross currency basis swap falling to 90 basis points below the
euro interbank offered rate today. The difference between three-
month Euribor and the overnight indexed swap rate, a measure of
banks’ reluctance to lend to each other, jumped to 0.64
percentage point today, the widest spread since May 2009.  “We’re going back to a post-Lehman scenario where banks
are reliant on the ECB and funding is more expensive,” said
Marcello Zanardo, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in
London. “This may lead to a credit crunch” if banks can’t pass
on all their costs.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  last week offered banks
unlimited money for six months and extended existing liquidity
measures to quell concern that southern European lenders may
struggle to borrow in the debt markets. The central bank has
also started to purchase Italian and Spanish bonds to stem the
sovereign debt crisis.  Banks deposited 145 billion euros ($207 billion) with the
 European Central Bank ’s overnight facility as of yesterday, the
most since August 2010. ECB lending to banks rose by 7.75
billion euros last week to 505.1 billion euros.  ‘Not a Good Sign’  “Banks are beginning lend more cautiously, and
increasingly park their money at central banks,” ECB Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny told Austrian state radio ORF
today. “Bank deposits at the ECB have risen massively. That’s
not a good sign.”  The extra yield investors demand to buy bank bonds instead
of benchmark German debt surged to 251 basis points on Aug. 8,
or 2.51 percentage points, the highest since May 2010, data
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch show. The cost of
insuring that debt against default surged to a record today. The
Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of 25
European banks and insurers rose to 218 basis points today.  Credit Suisse Group AG fell below the lowest price hit
during the financial crisis of 2008. The Swiss lender dropped
3.9 percent in Zurich trading to 21.75 francs, the lowest since
March 2003. The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index was 0.4 percent higher at the close in  London  after
falling as much as 4.9 percent.  “What you’re seeing is a massive move to deposit cash at
the shortest-term maturity, just like we saw a couple of years
ago,” said  Simon Maughan , head of sales and distribution at MF
Global Ltd. in London. “International banks are extremely
unwilling to lend to southern European banks.”  ‘Spell Out’ Strategy  The ECB’s purchases of Spanish and Italian bonds may be
draining liquidity from the interbank markets, analysts said.
Unlike the U.S. Federal Reserve’s quantitative easing program,
the ECB sterilizes its bond purchases, using term deposits to
reabsorb the same amount of cash it spends.  If the ECB chooses to sterilize its Italian and Spanish
bond purchases by holding bank deposits of the same size, that
could encourage banks to boost their deposits at the ECB rather
than lend to each other, analysts said.  “The ECB needs to spell out what the strategy for its bond
purchases is and the net cash impact,” said Jonathan Tyce,
senior analyst for the Bloomberg Industries European banking
team in London. “Falls across the banking sector and a rise in
Euribor-OIS -- despite falling Italian and Spanish yields --
suggest the market is concerned about sterilization and as a
result, negative impacts on bank liquidity.”  The yield on 10-year Spanish  government bonds  has fallen
120 basis points in the past week to 5.06 percent today. The
yield on Italian debt of a similar maturity slid 95 basis points
to 5.18 percent in the same period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  