-- 
Levi’s Hiring ‘Just Do It’ Veteran Means Shift to Global Advertising Focus

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-08-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/levi-s-hiring-just-do-it-veteran-means-shift-to-global-focus.html
Rebecca Van Dyck, who led  Nike Inc. (NKE) ’s
“Just Do It” campaign and helped  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  make the iPhone a
best-seller, just took on a taller advertising task: reviving
sluggish sales at Levi Strauss & Co.’s namesake brand.  Van Dyck, who joined Apple in 2007 on the day the iPhone
was introduced, was tapped in March to help lead Levi’s first
global marketing push. It’s part of a larger effort aimed at
getting products out the door more swiftly and luring customers
back to a 150-year-old company that’s been buffeted by rivals.  “I had always worn Levi’s, but they sort of drifted away
in my mind,” said Van Dyck, dressed in a white blouse and dark
blue Levi’s. “I want us to be present and show up and be
confident, and that’s going to be appealing to young people as
well as old people who grew up with Levi’s.”  The San Francisco-based company, dominant in jeans for
almost a century, has seen its share dwindle as other companies
entered the market with lower costs and luxury alternatives. Van
Dyck’s hiring is part of an overhaul that includes new
leadership, a shift in management structure to eliminate
regional control over design and a reduction in how many
products are released each year.  “We’re 20 miles into a 100-mile journey,” said Robert Hanson, president of the global Levi’s brand, who recruited Van
Dyck.  Levi’s grew out of an 1873 patent for the first jeans, or
“waist-high overalls” as they were called, by Bavarian
immigrant Levi Strauss. The pants, made of denim and reinforced
with copper rivets, were made for gold miners in California and
later became popular among lumberjacks, railroad workers and
farmers. An early  ad  shows a Levi’s-clad cowboy lighting a
cigarette with a branding iron.  ‘Iconic Brand’  Levi’s industry supremacy --  Bruce Springsteen  wore a pair
on the cover of his 1984 album “Born in the USA” -- lasted
until about two decades ago, said  Marshal Cohen , an analyst at
 NPD Group Inc.  Now, almost every apparel company makes jeans,
challenging Levi’s at both the high and low end, he said.  While it’s still the top seller, Levi’s share of women’s
jeans sales slipped to 4.4 percent in 2010 from 5.4 percent in
2005, according to researcher Euromonitor International. Its
slice of the men’s jeans market dropped to 7 percent from 8.4
percent, Euromonitor said. The company has $1.6 billion in debt,
and sales growth has been stagnant over the past decade. Levi’s
posted $4.41 billion in revenue in fiscal 2010, less than what
it was in 2000, according to Bloomberg data.  “Levi’s went from being a company that was a leader and
this iconic brand, to now being one of many players competing
for consumers’ money,” Cohen said. “Everybody and their mom
makes jeans.”  Turnaround Challenge  Van Dyck said she was drawn by the challenge of Levi’s
turnaround. One goal is to make Levi’s more relevant to
customers who don’t consider it hip or fashionable, she said.  That includes a global rollout of the successful  “Go
Forth”  U.S. advertising campaign, a push that was  unveiled  on
Facebook yesterday. The new effort highlights “pioneers,” such
as politically active young people who help their communities.
Van Dyck hired Brian Irving, another Apple alumnus, to lead
digital marketing.  Besides advertising shifts, Levi’s is centralizing
leadership at its  California  headquarters, an office with
panoramic bay views. As recently as a decade ago, Levi’s
operated independently in each country, resulting in regional
fiefdoms that left it unable to adapt quickly to new trends.  Hanson said he was drawn by Van Dyck’s experience working
with two of the world’s most well-known marketers, Nike Chairman
Phil Knight and Apple Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs . Van
Dyck helped guide widely seen television, print and billboard
campaigns that show iPhone and iPad features.  Supporting New Styles  “She has a track record of working on a number of brands
that have achieved the iconic status that I think Levi’s has had
in the past, and we aspire to have again,” said Hanson, who
also hired a vice president in charge of men’s design in April.  The company’s recent changes go further than a shift made
in 2007, when the country-by-country structure was consolidated
into three regions -- U.S., Europe and  Asia . Under the new
system, the company will more quickly support behind new styles,
said Hanson, who began as global president last September.  Under the old setup, Levi’s was late to capitalize on the
shift toward skinny jeans, lagging behind competitors such as
Diesel and  VF Corp. (VFC)   The steps, some of which predate Van Dyck, may be working.
Levi’s, which also makes Dockers khakis, swung to a $21 million
profit last quarter, from a $14 million loss a year earlier.
Sales rose 12 percent to $1.09 billion.  “We’re beginning to see the early stages of the
transformation working,” Hanson said.  ‘Shine a Light’  Levi’s also has introduced new product lines, including
 Curve ID , which helps women match jeans to their body type, and
a line of jeans for bike messengers with features such as
reflective stitching and “anti-stink” material.  Van Dyck is also helping winnow the number of styles of
jeans, shirts and other items released each year. On one of Van
Dyck’s first days, she and other executives laid out a batch of
Levi’s inventory for the coming season to pick through what was
repetitive, not selling or could be ditched. The company is
trying to cut by half the 10,000 styles it churns out each year.  Her main hope, Van Dyck said, is to make the company stand
out as relevant again.  “Levi’s has a history of being that brand,” she said.
“We’re here to shine a light on that again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 