-- 
Ex-Gore Fundraiser Cari Gets Probation for Role in Chicago Corruption Case

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-09T17:11:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/ex-gore-fundraiser-cari-gets-probation-for-role-in-chicago-corruption-case.html
Joseph Cari, the finance chief for
 Al Gore ’s 2000 U.S. presidential campaign, was sentenced to
three years’ probation for his role in a political corruption
scheme that led to the convictions of ex-Illinois Governor  Rod Blagojevich  and his fundraiser, Antoin “Tony” Rezko.  U.S. District Judge Amy St. Eve imposed the sentence, which
includes nine months’ home confinement and a $50,000 fine,
during a hearing today at the federal courthouse in Chicago.  “I accept full responsibility for my actions,” Cari said,
adding he’ll “live with shame and pain for the rest of my
life.”  Cari in 2005 pleaded guilty to a single count of attempted
extortion. Testifying against Rezko in 2008, he told a jury he’d
aided a plot to demand a $750,000 kickback from a private equity
firm,  JER Partners , which sought $80 million in investment
capital from the  Illinois  Teachers Retirement System.  Cari, a lawyer and then-director at Healthpoint Capital
Partners in  New York , admitted to making threatening phone calls
to the McLean, Virginia-based firm.  “You should have known better than to go down this path,”
St. Eve said before imposing his punishment. Cari had been on
supervised release since pleading guilty six years ago.
Prosecutors had asked her for a two-year prison sentence.  Personal Favors  Rezko, who raised money for Blagojevich and for President
 Barack Obama , in 2008 was found guilty of taking part in a
scheme to get kickbacks in exchange for influencing the awarding
of Illinois state business. He has not yet been sentenced.  A  Chicago  federal court jury in June found Blagojevich
guilty of trying to trade official acts, including the
appointment of a U.S. senator to replace Obama, for campaign
contributions and personal favors.  His sentencing is set for Oct. 6.  Cari testified against Blagojevich in a trial last year
that ended with the ex-governor’s conviction for lying to
federal agents. Jurors were unable to agree on 23 remaining
counts.  Obama, Gore and Blagojevich are all Democrats.  The case is U.S. v. Cari, 05cr691, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  