-- 
Ex-Primary Global Manager Loses His Bid to Throw Out Government Wiretaps

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-08-09T17:55:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/ex-primary-global-manager-loses-his-bid-to-throw-out-government-wiretaps.html
A former sales manager at expert
networking firm  Primary Global Research LLC  lost his bid to bar
government wiretaps when he’s tried this month as part of a
nationwide crackdown on hedge fund  insider trading .  James Fleishman had argued that the wiretaps of more than
100 callers to two Primary Global conference lines were illegal.
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff rejected Fleishman’s request in a
two-page order made public in Manhattan federal court today.
Rakoff also declined to hold an evidentiary hearing on the
matter.  Primary Global, based in  Mountain View ,  California , is at
the center of a nationwide probe of insider trading at  hedge
funds , technology companies, banks and consulting firms.
Winifred Jiau, a former Primary Global consultant, was convicted
of securities fraud and conspiracy on June 20 after a trial
before Rakoff.  Of the 14 people charged in the investigation by  Manhattan 
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office, 12 have pleaded guilty and
one, Jiau, was convicted at trial. Fleishman has pleaded not
guilty and is scheduled to go on trial before Rakoff on two
counts of conspiracy Aug. 29.  Conference Calls  Ethan Balogh, a lawyer for Fleishman, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the ruling.  The wiretap application targeted particular identification
numbers assigned to Primary Global employees and clients, which
were used to access conference calls between expert consultants
and Primary Global clients, mostly hedge funds and mutual funds.  In October 2009, U.S. District Judge Kevin Duffy signed an
order permitting the government to listen in on two conference
lines used by Primary Global.  Fleishman argued in court papers that the government’s
wiretap requests targeted at least 93 Primary Global clients not
suspected of any crime and was therefore too broad. He also
argued the wiretaps weren’t necessary to the investigation.  The case is U.S. v. Fleishman, 11-CR-32, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 