-- 
Texas Dust-Bowl Redux Spurs Record U.S. Cotton Loss, Farm Claims

-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 
2011-08-09T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/texas-dust-bowl-redux-spurs-record-u-s-cotton-loss-farm-claims.html
The worst  Texas  drought in more than
a century has left cotton-crop conditions that rival the Dust
Bowl of the early 1930s, forcing farmers to abandon more fields
than ever before.  Most growers will at least break even this year from
insurance claims, with the reimbursement rate on policies higher
than the price of New York cotton futures, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of seven analysts, brokers and farmers.  “The number and severity of claims in the Texas Panhandle,
High Plains, rolling plains and backlands will be substantially
higher than recent years,” said Ted Etheredge, president of
Lubbock, Texas-based Armtech Insurance, the fifth-largest U.S.
writer of federally sponsored crop-insurance policies. “The
drought is severe, so non-irrigated acreage in most areas had
emergence issues, and now irrigated crops are suffering.”  Harvest prospects in the U.S., the world’s largest
exporter, have dimmed this season as Texas endured the worst
drought since record-keeping began 116 years ago. Prices rallied
from a 10-month low two weeks ago and are 22 percent higher than
a year ago, boosting costs for apparel makers including Levi
Strauss & Co. and Hanesbrands Inc., and  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) , the
world’s second-largest clothing retailer.  Poor Condition  About  61 percent  of the Texas crop was in poor or very poor
condition on Aug. 7, compared with  7 percent  a year earlier,
U.S. Department of Agriculture data show. Texas accounted for 44
percent of output last year in the U.S. On July 12, the USDA cut
its month-old forecast of U.S. output by 5.9 percent to 16
million bales. A bale weighs 480 pounds, or 218 kilograms.  About half of Johnie Reed’s 6,000-acre farm in Kress,
Texas, 60 miles north of Lubbock, was scorched by the dry spell.
Reed said he insured 60 percent of his non-irrigated crop with
policies that ensure a government-mandated claim rate of $1.23 a
pound. That’s 26 percent more than prices on ICE Futures U.S. in
 New York , which have tumbled 56 percent since touching a record
$2.197 on March 7 because of slowing demand in China, the
world’s top buyer.  “It’s not a good year, and it doesn’t look pretty, but
financially we’ll be breaking even with the insurance” on the
2,800 acres of non-irrigated crops, Reed said by telephone. The
3,200 acres of irrigated cotton probably will be profitable,
yielding about one bale an acre, approximately half the normal
output, he said.  The government on July 12 forecast that 30 percent of the
U.S. crop will be lost, topping the previous record of 26.9
percent in 1933, when dust storms wiped out fields in Texas and
 Oklahoma  amid the Great Depression.  Abandoning Crop  Six traders, analysts and brokers in a Bloomberg News
survey estimated more than half the fields in Texas this year
will be abandoned, compared with a record 42.1 percent for the
state in 1998. Only about a third of fields are irrigated in
Texas.  “We’re going to have record abandonment this year,”  Keith Brown , president of Keith Brown & Co., a broker in Moultrie,
 Georgia , said by telephone. U.S. output may drop to as low as 13
million bales this year, he said.  Abandonment in the High Plains region of Texas, the biggest
growing area, may reach 50 percent, the highest since 53 percent
in 1992, Lubbock, Texas-based  Plains Cotton Growers Inc.  said.  Increased Payments  Insurers may pay out more to growers this year than they
collected in  premiums  for the first time in nine years. About 60
percent of what farmers spend on policies is federally
subsidized.  In 2002, payouts of $4.1 billion were 1.39 times more than
premiums of $2.9 billion, according to data from the Risk
Management Agency, a USDA division. Last year, premiums totaled
$7.6 billion, compared with payments of $4.2 billion, or a ratio
of 0.56, the lowest since 2007. In 1993, the loss ratio for
insurers reached 2.19 after flooding and excessive moisture hurt
crops.  Estimates for this year’s claims will be released next
month, according to the Risk Management Agency.  The worsening Texas crop is reviving cotton prices that
plunged from a record in March as demand from  China  waned,
dropping 41 percent in the three months ended June 30. Since
touching a low of 93.2 cents on July 26, cotton futures are up
4.8 percent, forcing some clothing companies to raise prices.  “The higher cost of cotton will continue to negatively
impact our margins and working capital as we move through the
remainder of 2011,” Blake J. Jorgensen, the chief financial
officer for Levi Strauss & Co., said during a July 12 earnings
conference call with analysts. Levi’s boosted prices earlier
this year on men’s products and recently increased prices on
women’s and children’s apparel, Robert Hanson, the president of
Levi’s Global Brand, said during the call.  The Uninsured  Ron Craft, a fourth-generation cotton ginner in Plains,
Texas, said he expects his business to plunge by at least 75
percent. Last year, his gin processed crops that yielded about
85,000 bales of cotton. Less output means he and other ginners
won’t be able to hire as many seasonal workers for warehouse and
trucking jobs, Craft said in a telephone interview.  “I’ve got those people that come back every year depending
on me for a job, and I may not be able to provide that for them
because of the lack of cotton to process,” Craft said.  As a ginner, Craft cannot purchase crop insurance, and
claims this year will “definitely, no doubt, be the most I’ve
ever seen,” he said. “I’ve got growers right now who,
realistically, if they could terminate their crop and not have
to put any more inputs into it and take that insurance claim,
they’d be a lot better off.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  