-- 
Fed to Keep Key Rates at Record Lows Through Mid-2013 Amid Weaker Economy

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-08-09T20:36:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/fed-to-keep-rates-at-record-lows-at-least-through-mid-2013.html
The  Federal Reserve  pledged for the
first time to keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low
at least through mid-2013 to revive a recovery that’s
“considerably slower” than anticipated.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  is “prepared to employ”
additional tools to bolster an economy hobbled by weak hiring
and anemic household spending, it said in a statement today in
Washington.  Three members of the committee dissented, preferring to
maintain a previous pledge to keep rates low for an “extended
period” without a specific timeframe. Stocks rallied and yields
on 10-year Treasury notes briefly touched a record low.  The decision represents the biggest effort since November
to spark the U.S. economy and revive confidence while stopping
short of initiating a third round of large-scale asset
purchases. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues acted
after reports showed the economy was slowing and an
unprecedented downgrade to the U.S. credit rating sent stocks
tumbling from Sydney to New York.  The Fed offered a dimmer view of the economy than it did in
the last statement in late June. “Economic growth so far this
year has been considerably slower than the committee had
expected,” it said. The Fed also said it expects a “somewhat
slower pace of recovery over coming quarters.” The “downside
risks to the economic outlook have increased,” the Fed
concluded.  Spending cuts under a federal debt reduction deal enacted
by President Barack Obama on Aug. 2 would start next year and
increase into 2013, weighing on economic growth.  Stocks Rise  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 4.7 percent to
1,172.53 in  New York . The yield on the two-year Treasury note
fell to 0.196 percent and the 10-year yield dropped to 2.273
percent after hitting a record low of 2.03 percent.  “It’s a dramatic commitment on the funds rate that’s
clearly extremely dovish and shows clear bias toward more
potential purchases” of assets, said  James O’Sullivan , chief
economist at MF Global Inc. in New York. “Even this was very
controversial -- to have three dissents highlights the real
divisions on the Fed right now.”  The Fed left its target for the federal funds rate in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent, where it’s been since December
2008. It said it will maintain its policy of reinvesting
maturing securities without saying for how long.  Three Dissents  The vote was 7-3. Richard Fisher, president of the Dallas
Fed,  Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia and Narayana Kocherlakota
of the Minneapolis Fed all dissented. The last time three FOMC
voters dissented was on Nov. 17, 1992, under Bernanke’s
predecessor  Alan Greenspan .  The Fed’s decision came after  Standard & Poor’s 
unprecedented downgrade of the U.S. credit rating on Aug. 5 sent
share prices tumbling on concern a global economic slowdown will
deepen.  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service affirmed
their top grades for U.S. debt.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled 6.7 percent
yesterday in New York, its biggest decline since December 2008.
The drop has wiped out all the gains in stocks since Nov. 3,
2010, when the Fed announced it would buy $600 billion of
 government bonds , its second round of asset purchases.  Europe ’s debt woes added to the market turmoil. Central
bankers and finance ministers from the Group of Seven nations
pledged Aug. 7 to “take all necessary measures to support
financial stability and growth.”  Bond Buying  The next day, the  European Central Bank  began buying
Italian and Spanish bonds in its riskiest attempt yet to battle
the continent’s sovereign debt crisis.  While U.S. inflation rates have risen, they are still below
the Fed’s informal target range of 1.7 to 2 percent. A measure
of consumer-price gains, stripping out food and energy, stood at
1.3 percent for the 12 months ending in June. That’s up from 0.9
percent for the 12 months ending December.  Bernanke told Congress on July 13 that the Fed was prepared
to buy more Treasury bonds if the economy appeared in danger of
stalling or if the threat of deflation looked like it was going
to re-emerge, while repeating his forecast for a pickup in
growth in the second half of the year.  Recent economic data have cast doubt on his outlook.
Temporary forces such as higher food and energy costs depressing
 consumer spending , along with supply disruptions from  Japan ’s
earthquake and nuclear disaster in March, which hurt factory
production, “appear to account for only some of the recent
weakness in economic activity,” the FOMC statement said.  Less Than Forecast  Gross domestic product expanded at a 1.3 percent annual
pace in the second quarter, less than forecast by economists, a
July 29 government report showed. The economy almost stalled in
the prior quarter, growing at a 0.4 percent pace, the weakest
three-month period since the recovery began in June 2009.  The same report showed that the recession was about 25
percent deeper than previously estimated, leaving GDP short of
its 2007 peak and the economy more vulnerable to another
contraction.  Consumers cut spending in June for the first time in almost
two years, the Commerce Department said Aug. 2.  “The consumer environment remains very tough,” Michael Polk, chief executive officer of Atlanta-based Newell Rubbermaid
Inc., said on a conference call with analysts on July 29. He
said a “difficult”  U.S. economy  was among the reasons the
maker of Rubbermaid containers and Sharpie pens had cut its
full-year profit and sales forecasts.  ‘Flattened Out’  The Fed said there has been “a deterioration in overall
labor-market conditions in recent months” and household
spending has “flattened out.”  Hiring has slowed as employers lost confidence in the
recovery. Average monthly payroll gains fell to 72,000 in the
three months through July, from 215,000 in the prior three
months. The jobless rate fell to 9.1 percent in July from 9.2
percent in June as Americans gave up looking for work.  “When we have the kind of combination of sub-par growth,
stubbornly high unemployment and a big debt overhang, you need
low interest rates,”  Carmen Reinhart , a senior fellow at the
Peterson Institute for International Economics in  Washington ,
said on Aug. 5.  The housing market has also been a drag on growth as
sliding  home prices  cut into  consumer confidence  and wealth.  Sales of existing homes, the largest portion of the housing
market, totaled 4.77 million on an annualized basis in June, a
34 percent drop from their pre-recession peak in September 2005.  Lowest Point  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
declined 4.5 percent in May from a year earlier, the most in 18
months, and homeownership at 65.9 percent is at its lowest point
since 1998, even as affordability is close to a record high.  “We’re still in a market that is clearly bouncing along
the bottom on housing and new construction,” Christopher M. Connor, chief executive officer of Sherwin-Williams Co., said on
a July 21 conference call. The Cleveland-based company, the
largest U.S. paint maker, also cut its full-year profit forecast
because of rising raw material costs.  Manufacturing, which had been one of the few bright spots
in the economy, grew in July at its slowest pace in two years,
the Institute for Supply Management said on Aug. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  