-- 
Fiat-to-Volkswagen Discounts Signals Diminished Sales Across Europe: Cars

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r ,   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-08-09T23:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-09/fiat-to-volkswagen-discounts-signaling-diminishing-sales-cars.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Fiat SpA (F)  and  General
Motors Co. (GM)  are offering cheap financing and cash rebates to woo
hesitant European customers as car demand shows signs of
deteriorating because of the region’s debt crisis.  Doubts about the stability of the region’s economy has
prompted some customers to back off purchases for the time
being. A growing number of buyers have canceled orders in the
past week, including two London investors who were planning to
buy vehicles from  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz, said Simon Empson,
managing director of discount U.K. car website Broadspeed.com.  “There’s no good news,” said Empson. “It’s a real
problem, because there’s nothing in the till” for governments
to stimulate the economy.  Consumers are rethinking major purchases after the  European
Central Bank  started buying Italian and Spanish government bonds
this week in an effort to stabilize the euro zone following
 Greece ’s fiscal meltdown more than 18 months ago. J.D. Power &
Associates lowered its 2011 forecast for car sales in western
Europe after Italy led an unexpected decline in July deliveries.
While so far there haven’t been new discounts in  North America ,
concern about  consumer spending  is spreading.  The consulting firm now predicts 2011 European deliveries
will drop 1 percent to 12.84 million vehicles, compared with a
previous forecast for a small increase to 12.99 million.  “We were expecting sales to be weaker, but the Italian
market running rate came in at the weakest in a very long
time,” said Jonathon Poskitt,  J.D. Power  analyst in Oxford,
 England . “Confidence is at a low in some of the key markets.”  Market Crash  Honda Motor Co. Chief Financial Officer Fumihiko Ike said
U.S. sales may run below 12.4 million light vehicles this year
and that the Tokyo-based automaker may revise its full-year
profit forecast, depending how long North American and European
markets are in turmoil. At least three analysts have reduced
estimates since March.  “There’s a lot of turmoil in the business and turmoil
means uncertainty, so we’re a little unsure of these numbers,”
Dan Akerson, GM’s chief executive officer, said at an investor
meeting yesterday about the automaker’s forecast for at least 13
million deliveries industrywide this year including medium- and
heavy-duty trucks.  In  Europe , concern about a  budget crisis  spilling over into
the broader economy led to a 20 percent decline in the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index over the past six months. The  auto industry  has
been hard hit, with the Euro Stoxx Automobile and Parts Index
dropping 18 percent in August.  “The stock-market crash is definitely a growing factor,”
said Ernst-Robert Nouvertne, who runs two VW dealerships in
Solingen, about 25 kilometers (15 miles) northeast of Cologne.
“People are putting off purchases to wait and see what’s
happening with the economy.”  Demand Shrinking  “All told, business has become tougher,” said Nouvertne,
the German dealer whose stores are offering discounts on VW and
Skoda models including a deal for as much as 5,415 euros
($7,715), or 17 percent, off a 1.6-liter diesel VW Passat wagon.
“Demand has shrunk by a quarter since May compared with the
first four months.”  Volkswagen, Europe’s largest automaker, expects demand in
its home western European market to be “burdened” in the
second half by state debt problems and the expiration of sales
incentives, the Wolfsburg, Germany-based company said July 28.
World economic growth may slow somewhat because of rising
inflation and the persisting budget crisis, VW said at the time.  Still, VW is projecting higher operating profit on record
sales of more than 7.2 million cars, sport-utility vehicles and
vans. The manufacturer, which also owns the Audi, Skoda and Seat
brands, sold more than 4 million vehicles in the first half
months for the first time on high demand in  China , the world’s
largest automobile market.  Vauxhall Discounts  GM’s Vauxhall brand in the U.K. is offering zero-percent
financing plus a credit of at least 500 pounds ($816) on
vehicles purchased before Sept. 30. Buyers of the Insignia sedan
or Zafira minivan get a deposit credit of 1,000 pounds, and all
models under the program include the company’s 100,000-mile
warranty.  “We’re seeing a very tough retail market in the U.K.,”
said Denis Chick, a Vauxhall spokesman in Luton, England. “It’s
quite a challenge for us all.”  Last month, Fiat began offering U.K. customers a version of
the Panda compact with air conditioning and 14-inch alloy wheels
with a 22 percent discount.  Renault SA (RNO)  is promoting savings on
the Megane hatchback of 1,600 pounds, or 14 percent.  ‘Everybody’s Sweating’  “Sales have just dropped like hell in the last 10 days to
two weeks,” said David Hoggarth, owner of Huttons Ltd., a Fiat
dealer in southwest England. “We know we’re not alone in this.
Our manufacturer says that other dealerships are in the same
situation. Everybody’s sweating at the moment.”  Carmakers are stepping up discounts to support sales in
 France  after the market fell 5.9 percent in July, led by
declines by Fiat,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Renault. PSA Peugeot
Citroen is offering the Citroen C1 mini for 6,490 euros, 9
percent lower than the list price. The gasoline-powered Renault
Twingo is selling for 34 percent off.  Fiat’s home market in  Italy  slumped to a 1.45 million
annualized sales rate in July down from 1.75 million earlier
this year, according to J.D. Power.  “We are extremely worried as the car market in Italy is
sinking even more after the markets crisis,” said Filippo Pavan
Bernacchi, head of Italian dealer association Federauto.
“Carmakers are fighting on prices to keep people walking into
our showrooms. I don’t exclude that some carmakers are selling
their vehicles below costs to keep the market share.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  